Standing by the side of the dresser at one end of the room was a treadle sewing machine, and
on one end of the dresser was a a pile of sewing: ladies' blouses in process of making.  This
was another instance of the goodness of Mr Sweater, from whom Linden's daughter-in-law obtained
the work.  It was not much, because she was only able to do it in her spare time, but then,
as she often remarked, every little helped.

The floor was covered with linoleum: there were a number of framed pictures on the walls, and
on the high mantelshelf were a number of brightly polished tins and copper utensils.  The room
had that indescribably homelike, cosy air that is found only in those houses in which the inhabitants
have dwelt for a very long time.

The younger woman was already pouring out a cup of tea.

Old Mrs Linden, who had never seen Owen before, although she had heard of him, belonged to
the Church of England and was intensely religious. She looked curiously at the Atheist as he
entered the room.  He had taken off his hat and she was surprised to find that he was not repulsive
to look at, rather the contrary.  But then she remembered that Satan often appears as an angel
of light.  Appearances are deceitful.  She wished that John had not asked him into the house
and hoped that no evil consequences would follow.  As she looked at him, she was horrified
to perceive a small black head with a pair of glistening green eyes peeping out of the breast
of his coat, and immediately afterwards the kitten, catching sight of the cups and saucers
on the table, began to mew frantically and scrambled suddenly out of its shelter, inflicting
a severe scratch on Owen's restraining hands as it jumped to the floor.

It clambered up the tablecloth and began rushing all over the table, darting madly from one
plate to another, seeking something to eat.

The children screamed with delight.  Their grandmother was filled with a feeling of superstitious
alarm.  Linden and the young woman stood staring with astonishment at the unexpected visitor.

Before the kitten had time to do any damage, Owen caught hold of it and, despite its struggles,
lifted it off the table.

'I found it in the street as I was coming along,' he said.  'It seems to be starving.'

'Poor little thing.  I'll give it something.' exclaimed the young woman.

She put some milk and bread into a saucer for it and the kitten ate ravenously, almost upsetting
the saucer in its eagerness, much to the amusement of the two children, who stood by watching
it admiringly.

Their mother now handed Owen a cup of tea.  Linden insisted on his sitting down and then began
to talk about Hunter.

'You know I HAD to spend some time on them doors to make 'em look anything at all; but it wasn't
the time I took, or even the smoking what made 'im go on like that.  He knows very well the
time it takes. The real reason is that he thinks I was gettin' too much money.  Work is done
so rough nowadays that chaps like Sawkins is good enough for most of it.  Hunter shoved me
off just because I was getting the top money, and you'll see I won't be the only one.'

'I'm afraid you're right,' returned Owen.  'Did you see Rushton when you went for your money?'

'Yes,' replied Linden.  'I hurried up as fast as I could, but Hunter was there first.  He passed
me on his bike before I got half-way, so I suppose he told his tale before I came.  Anyway,
when I started to speak to Mr Rushton he wouldn't listen.  Said he couldn't interfere between
Mr Hunter and the men.#

'Ah!  They're a bad lot, them two,' said the old woman, shaking her head sagely.  'But it'll
all come 'ome to 'em, you'll see.  They'll never prosper.  The Lord will punish them.'

Owen did not feel very confident of that.  Most of the people he knew who had prospered were
very similar in character to the two worthies in question.  However, he did not want to argue
with this poor old woman.

'When Tom was called up to go to the war,' said the young woman, bitterly, 'Mr Rushton shook
hands with him and promised to give him a job when he came back.  But now that poor Tom's gone
and they know that me and the children's got no one to look to but Father, they do THIS.'

Although at the mention of her dead son's name old Mrs Linden was evidently distressed, she
was still mindful of the Atheist's presence, and hastened to rebuke her daughter-in-law.

'You shouldn't say we've got no one to look to, Mary,' she said. 'We're not as them who are
without God and without hope in the world. The Lord is our shepherd.  He careth for the widow
and the fatherless.'

Owen was very doubtful about this also.  He had seen so many badly cared-for children about
the streets lately, and what he remembered of his own sorrowful childhood was all evidence
to the contrary.

An awkward silence succeeded.  Owen did not wish to continue this conversation: he was afraid
that he might say something that would hurt the old woman.  Besides, he was anxious to get
away; he began to feel cold in his wet clothes.

As he put his empty cup on the table he said:

'Well, I must be going.  They'll be thinking I'm lost, at home.'

The kitten had finished all the bread and milk and was gravely washing its face with one of
its forepaws, to the great admiration of the two children, who were sitting on the floor beside
it.  It was an artful-looking kitten, all black, with a very large head and a very small body.
It reminded Owen of a tadpole.

'Do you like cats?' he asked, addressing the children.

'Yes,' said the boy.  'Give it to us, will you, mister?'

'Oh, do leave it 'ere, mister,' exclaimed the little girl.  'I'll look after it.'

'So will I,' said the boy.

'But haven't you one of your own?' asked Owen.

'Yes; we've got a big one.'

'Well, if you have one already and I give you this, then you'd have two cats, and I'd have
none.  That wouldn't be fair, would it?'

'Well, you can 'ave a lend of our cat for a little while if you give us this kitten,' said
the boy, after a moment's thought.

'Why would you rather have the kitten?'

'Because it would play: our cat don't want to play, it's too old.'

'Perhaps you're too rough with it,' returned Owen.

'No, it ain't that; it's just because it's old.'

'You know cats is just the same as people,' explained the little girl, wisely.  'When they're
grown up I suppose they've got their troubles to think about.'

Owen wondered how long it would be before her troubles commenced.  As he gazed at these two
little orphans he thought of his own child, and of the rough and thorny way they would all
three have to travel if they were so unfortunate as to outlive their childhood.

'Can we 'ave it, mister?' repeated the boy.

Owen would have liked to grant the children's request, but he wanted the kitten himself.  Therefore
he was relieved when their grandmother exclaimed:

'We don't want no more cats 'ere: we've got one already; that's quite enough.'

She was not yet quite satisfied in her mind that the creature was not an incarnation of the
Devil, but whether it was or not she did not want it, or anything else of Owen's, in this house.
She wished he would go, and take his kitten or his familiar or whatever it was, with him. No
good could come of his being there.  It was a terrible thing that this blasphemer who--as she
had heard--did not believe there was a Hell and said that the Bible was not the Word of God,
should be here in the house sitting on one of their chairs, drinking from one of their cups,
and talking to their children.

The children stood by wistfully when Owen put the kitten under his coat and rose to go away.

As Linden prepared to accompany him to the front door, Owen, happening to notice a timepiece
standing on a small table in the recess at one side of the fireplace, exclaimed:

'That's a very nice clock.'

'Yes, it's all right, ain't it?' said old Jack, with a touch of pride. 'Poor Tom made that:
not the clock itself, but just the case.'

It was the case that had attracted Owen's attention.  It stood about two feet high and was
made of fretwork in the form of an Indian mosque, with a pointed dome and pinnacles.  It was
a very beautiful thing and must have cost many hours of patient labour.

'Yes,' said the old woman, in a trembling, broken voice, and looking at Owen with a pathetic
expression.  'Months and months he worked at it, and no one ever guessed who it were for. 
And then, when my birthday came round, the very first thing I saw when I woke up in the morning
were the clock standing on a chair by the bed with a card:

           'To dear mother, from her loving son, Tom.
               Wishing her many happy birthdays.'

'But he never had another birthday himself, because just five months afterwards he were sent
out to Africa, and he'd only been there five weeks when he died.  Five years ago, come the
fifteenth of next month.'

Owen, inwardly regretting that he had unintentionally broached so painful a subject, tried
to think of some suitable reply, but had to content himself with murmuring some words of admiration
of the work.

As he wished her good night, the old woman, looking at him, could not help observing that he
appeared very frail and ill: his face was very thin and pale, and his eyes were unnaturally bright.

Possibly the Lord in His infinite loving kindness and mercy was chastening this unhappy castaway
in order that He might bring him to Himself.  After all, he was not altogether bad: it was
certainly very thoughtful of him to come all this way to let John know about that job. She
observed that he had no overcoat, and the storm was still raging fiercely outside, furious
gusts of wind frequently striking the house and shaking it to its very foundations.

The natural kindliness of her character asserted itself; her better feelings were aroused,
triumphing momentarily over the bigotry of her religious opinions.

'Why, you ain't got no overcoat!' she exclaimed.  'You'll be soaked goin' 'ome in this rain.'
Then, turning to her husband, she continued: 'There's that old one of yours; you might lend
him that; it would be better than nothing.'

But Owen would not hear of this: he thought, as he became very conscious of the clammy feel
of his saturated clothing, that he could not get much wetter than he already was.  Linden accompanied
him as far as the front door, and Owen once more set out on his way homeward through the storm
that howled around like a wild beast hungry for its prey.

Chapter 6

It is not My Crime

Owen and his family occupied the top floor of a house that had once been a large private dwelling
but which had been transformed into a series of flats.  It was situated in Lord Street, almost
in the centre of the town.

At one time this had been a most aristocratic locality, but most of the former residents had
migrated to the newer suburb at the west of the town.  Notwithstanding this fact, Lord Street
was still a most respectable neighbourhood, the inhabitants generally being of a very superior
type: shop-walkers, shop assistants, barber's clerks, boarding house keepers, a coal merchant,
and even two retired jerry-builders.

There were four other flats in the house in which Owen lived.  No. 1 (the basement) was occupied
by an estate agent's clerk.  No. 2--on a level with the street--was the habitat of the family
of Mr Trafaim, a cadaverous-looking gentleman who wore a top hat, boasted of his French descent,
and was a shop-walker at Sweater's Emporium.  No. 3 was tenanted by an insurance agent, and
in No. 4 dwelt a tallyman's traveller.

Lord Street--like most other similar neighbourhoods--supplied a striking answer to those futile
theorists who prate of the equality of mankind, for the inhabitants instinctively formed themselves
into groups, the more superior types drawing together, separating themselves from the inferior,
and rising naturally to the top, while the others gathered themselves into distinct classes,
grading downwards, or else isolated themselves altogether; being refused admission to the circles
they desired to enter, and in their turn refusing to associate with their inferiors.

The most exclusive set consisted of the families of the coal merchant, the two retired jerry-builders
and Mr Trafaim, whose superiority was demonstrated by the fact that, to say nothing of his
French extraction, he wore--in addition to the top hat aforesaid--a frock coat and a pair of
lavender trousers every day.  The coal merchant and the jerry builders also wore top hats,
lavender trousers and frock coats, but only on Sundays and other special occasions.  The estate
agent's clerk and the insurance agent, though excluded from the higher circle, belonged to
another select coterie from which they excluded in their turn all persons of inferior rank,
such as shop assistants or barbers.

The only individual who was received with equal cordiality by all ranks, was the tallyman's
traveller.  But whatever differences existed amongst them regarding each other's social standing
they were unanimous on one point at least: they were indignant at Owen's presumption in coming
to live in such a refined locality.

This low fellow, this common workman, with his paint-bespattered clothing, his broken boots,
and his generally shabby appearance, was a disgrace to the street; and as for his wife she
was not much better, because although whenever she came out she was always neatly dressed,
yet most of the neighbours knew perfectly well that she had been wearing the same white straw
hat all the time she had been there.  In fact, the only tolerable one of the family was the
boy, and they were forced to admit that he was always very well dressed; so well indeed as
to occasion some surprise, until they found out that all the boy's clothes were home-made.
Then their surprise was changed into a somewhat grudging admiration of the skill displayed,
mingled with contempt for the poverty which made its exercise necessary.

The indignation of the neighbours was increased when it became known that Owen and his wife
were not Christians: then indeed everyone agreed that the landlord ought to be ashamed of himself
for letting the top flat to such people.

But although the hearts of these disciples of the meek and lowly Jewish carpenter were filled
with uncharitableness, they were powerless to do much harm.  The landlord regarded their opinion
with indifference.  All he cared about was the money: although he also was a sincere Christian,
he would not have hesitated to let the top flat to Satan himself, provided he was certain of
receiving the rent regularly.

The only one upon whom the Christians were able to inflict any suffering was the child.  At
first when he used to go out into the street to play, the other children, acting on their parents'
instructions, refused to associate with him, or taunted him with his parents' poverty.  Occasionally
he came home heartbroken and in tears because he had been excluded from some game.

At first, sometimes the mothers of some of the better-class children used to come out with
a comical assumption of superiority and dignity and compel their children to leave off playing
with Frankie and some other poorly dressed children who used to play in that street.  These
females were usually overdressed and wore a lot of jewellery.  Most of them fancied they were
ladies, and if they had only had the sense to keep their mouths shut, other people might possibly
have shared the same delusion.

But this was now a rare occurrence, because the parents of the other children found it a matter
of considerable difficulty to prevent their youngsters from associating with those of inferior
rank, for when left to themselves the children disregarded all such distinctions. Frequently
in that street was to be seen the appalling spectacle of the ten-year-old son of the refined
and fashionable Trafaim dragging along a cart constructed of a sugar box and an old pair of
perambulator wheels with no tyres, in which reposed the plebeian Frankie Owen, armed with a
whip, and the dowdy daughter of a barber's clerk: while the nine-year-old heir of the coal
merchant rushed up behind...

Owen's wife and little son were waiting for him in the living room. This room was about twelve
feet square and the ceiling--which was low and irregularly shaped, showing in places the formation
of the roof--had been decorated by Owen with painted ornaments.

There were three or four chairs, and an oblong table, covered with a clean white tablecloth,
set ready for tea.  In the recess at the right of fireplace--an ordinary open grate--were a
number of shelves filled with a miscellaneous collection of books, most of which had been bought
second-hand.

There were also a number of new books, mostly cheap editions in paper covers.

Over the back of a chair at one side of the fire, was hanging an old suit of Owen's, and some
underclothing, which his wife had placed there to air, knowing that he would be wet through
by the time he arrived home...

The woman was half-sitting, half lying, on a couch by the other side of the fire.  She was
very thin, and her pale face bore the traces of much physical and mental suffering.  She was
sewing, a task which her reclining position rendered somewhat difficult.  Although she was
really only twenty-eight years of age, she appeared older.

The boy, who was sitting on the hearthrug playing with some toys, bore a strong resemblance
to his mother.  He also, appeared very fragile and in his childish face was reproduced much
of the delicate prettiness which she had once possessed. His feminine appearance was increased
by the fact that his yellow hair hung in long curls on his shoulders.  The pride with which
his mother regarded this long hair was by no means shared by Frankie himself, for he was always
entreating her to cut it off.

Presently the boy stood up and walking gravely over to the window, looked down into the street,
scanning the pavement for as far as he could see: he had been doing this at intervals for the
last hour.

'I wonder wherever he's got to,' he said, as he returned to the fire.

'I'm sure I don't know,' returned his mother.  'Perhaps he's had to work overtime.'

'You know, I've been thinking lately,' observed Frankie, after a pause, 'that it's a great
mistake for Dad to go out working at all.  I believe that's the very reason why we're so poor.'

'Nearly everyone who works is more or less poor, dear, but if Dad didn't go out to work we'd
be even poorer than we are now.  We should have nothing to eat.'

'But Dad says that the people who do nothing get lots of everything.'

'Yes, and it's quite true that most of the people who never do any work get lots of everything,
but where do they get it from?  And how do they get it?'

'I'm sure I don't know,' replied Frankie, shaking his head in a puzzled fashion.

'Supposing Dad didn't go to work, or that he had no work to go to, or that he was ill and not
able to do any work, then we'd have no money to buy anything.  How should we get on then?'

'I'm sure I don't know,' repeated Frankie, looking round the room in a thoughtful manner, 'The
chairs that's left aren't good enough to sell, and we can't sell the beds, or your sofa, but
you might pawn my velvet suit.'

'But even if all the things were good enough to sell, the money we'd get for them wouldn't
last very long, and what should we do then?'

'Well, I suppose we'd have to go without, that's all, the same as we did when Dad was in London.'

'But how do the people who never do any work manage to get lots of money then?' added Frankie.

'Oh, there's lots of different ways.  For instance, you remember when Dad was in London, and
we had no food in the house, I had to sell the easy chair.'

Frankie nodded.  'Yes,' he said, 'I remember you wrote a note and I took it to the shop, and
afterwards old Didlum came up here and bought it, and then his cart came and a man took it away.'

'And do you remember how much he gave us for it?'

'Five shillings,' replied Frankie, promptly.  He was well acquainted with the details of the
transaction, having often heard his father and mother discuss it.

'And when we saw it in his shop window a little while afterwards, what price was marked on it?'

'Fifteen shillings.'

Well, that's one way of getting money without working.

Frankie played with his toys in silence for some minutes.  At last he said:

'What other ways?'

'Some people who have some money already get more in this way: they find some people who have
no money and say to them, "Come and work for us."  Then the people who have the money pay the
workers just enough wages to keep them alive whilst they are at work.  Then, when the things
that the working people have been making are finished, the workers are sent away, and as they
still have no money, they are soon starving.  In the meantime the people who had the money
take all the things that the workers have made and sell them for a great deal more money than
they gave to the workers for making them.  That's another way of getting lots of money without
doing any useful work.'

'But is there no way to get rich without doing such things as that?'

'It's not possible for anyone to become rich without cheating other people.'

'What about our schoolmaster then?  He doesn't do any work.'

'Don't you think it's useful and and also very hard work teaching all those boys every day?
I don't think I should like to have to do it.'

'Yes, I suppose what he does is some use,' said Frankie thoughtfully. 'And it must be rather
hard too, I should think.  I've noticed he looks a bit worried sometimes, and sometimes he
gets into a fine old wax when the boys don't pay proper attention.'

The child again went over to the window, and pulling back the edge of the blind looked down
the deserted rain washed street.

'What about the vicar?' he remarked as he returned.

Although Frankie did not go to church or Sunday School, the day school that he had attended
was that attached to the parish church, and the vicar was in the habit of looking in occasionally.

'Ah, he really is one of those who live without doing any necessary work, and of all the people
who do nothing, the vicar is one of the very worst.'

Frankie looked up at his mother with some surprise, not because he entertained any very high
opinion of clergymen in general, for, having been an attentive listener to many conversations
between his parents, he had of course assimilated their opinions as far as his infant understanding
permitted, but because at the school the scholars were taught to regard the gentleman in question
with the most profound reverence and respect.

'Why, Mum?' he asked.

'For this reason, dearie.  You know that all the beautiful things which the people who do nothing
have are made by the people who work, don't you?'

'Yes.'

'And you know that those who work have to eat the very worst food, and wear the very worst
clothes, and live in the very worst homes.'

'Yes,' said Frankie.

'And sometimes they have nothing to eat at all, and no clothes to wear except rags, and even
no homes to live in.'

'Yes,' repeated the child.

'Well, the vicar goes about telling the Idlers that it's quite right for them to do nothing,
and that God meant them to have nearly everything that is made by those who work.  In fact,
he tells them that God made the poor for the use of the rich.  Then he goes to the workers
and tells them that God meant them to work very hard and to give all the good things they make
to those who do nothing, and that they should be very thankful to God and to the idlers for
being allowed to have even the very worst food to eat and the rags, and broken boots to wear.
He also tells them that they mustn't grumble, or be discontented because they're poor in this
world, but that they must wait till they're dead, and then God will reward them by letting
them go to a place called Heaven.'

Frankie laughed.

'And what about the Idlers?' he asked.

'The vicar says that if they believe everything he tells them and give him some of the money
they make out of the workers, then God will let them into heaven also.'

'Well, that's not fair doos, is it, Mum?' said Frankie with some indignation.

'It wouldn't be if it were true, but then you see it's not true, it can't be true.'

'Why can't it, Mum?'

'Oh, for many reasons: to begin with, the vicar doesn't believe it himself: he only pretends
to.  For instance, he pretends to believe the Bible, but if we read the Bible we find that
Jesus said that God is our father and that all the people in the world are His children, all
brothers and sisters.  But the vicar says that although Jesus said "brothers and sisters" He
really ought to have said "masters and servants".  Again, Jesus said that His disciples should
not think of tomorrow, or save up a lot of money for themselves, but they should be unselfish
and help those who are in need.  Jesus said that His disciples must not think about their own
future needs at all, because God will provide for them if they only do as He commands.  But
the vicar says that is all nonsense.

'Jesus also said that if anyone tried to do His disciples harm, they must never resist, but
forgive those who injured them and pray God to forgive them also.  But the vicar says this
is all nonsense too.  He says that the world would never be able to go on if we did as Jesus
taught.  The vicar teaches that the way to deal with those that injure us is to have them put
into prison, or--if they belong to some other country--to take guns and knives and murder them,
and burn their houses.  So you see the vicar doesn't really believe or do any of the things
that Jesus said: he only pretends.'

'But why does he pretend, and go about talking like that, Mum?  What does he do it for?'

'Because he wishes to live without working himself, dear.'

'And don't the people know he's only pretending?'

'Some of them do.  Most of the idlers know that what the vicar says is not true, but they pretend
to believe it, and give him money for saying it, because they want him to go on telling it
to the workers so that they will go on working and keep quiet and be afraid to think for themselves.'

'And what about the workers?  Do they believe it?

'Most of them do, because when they were little children like you, their mothers taught them
to believe, without thinking, whatever the vicar said, and that God made them for the use of
the idlers.  When they went to school, they were taught the same thing: and now that they're
grown up they really believe it, and they go to work and give nearly everything they make to
the idlers, and have next to nothing left for themselves and their children.  That's the reason
why the workers' children have very bad clothes to wear and sometimes no food to eat; and that's
how it is that the idlers and their children have more clothes than they need and more food
than they can eat.  Some of them have so much food that they are not able to eat it.  They
just waste it or throw it away.'

'When I'm grown up into a man,' said Frankie, with a flushed face, 'I'm going to be one of
the workers, and when we've made a lot of things, I shall stand up and tell the others what
to do.  If any of the idlers come to take our things away, they'll get something they won't like.'

In a state of suppressed excitement and scarcely conscious of what he was doing, the boy began
gathering up the toys and throwing the violently one by one into the box.

'I'll teach 'em to come taking our things away,' he exclaimed, relapsing momentarily into his
street style of speaking.

'First of all we'll all stand quietly on one side.  Then when the idlers come in and start
touching our things, we'll go up to 'em and say, "'Ere, watcher doin' of?  Just you put it
down, will yer?"  And if they don't put it down at once, it'll be the worse for 'em, I can
tell you.'

All the toys being collected, Frankie picked up the box and placed it noisily in its accustomed
corner of the room.

'I should think the workers will be jolly glad when they see me coming to tell them what to
do, shouldn't you, Mum?'

'I don't know dear; you see so many people have tried to tell them, but they won't listen,
they don't want to hear.  They think it's quite right that they should work very hard all their
lives, and quite right that most of the things they help to make should be taken away from
them by the people who do nothing.  The workers think that their children are not as good as
the children of the idlers, and they teach their children that as soon as ever they are old
enough they must be satisfied to work very hard and to have only very bad good and clothes
and homes.'

'Then I should think the workers ought to be jolly ashamed of themselves, Mum, don't you?'

'Well, in one sense they ought, but you must remember that that's what they've always been
taught themselves.  First, their mothers and fathers told them so; then, their schoolteachers
told them so; and then, when they went to church, the vicar and the Sunday School teacher told
them the same thing.  So you can't be surprised that they now really believe that God made
them and their children to make things for the use of the people who do nothing.'

'But you'd think their own sense would tell them!  How can it be right for the people who do
nothing to have the very best and  most of everything thats made, and the very ones who make
everything to have hardly any.  Why even I know better than that, and I'm only six and a half
years old.'

'But then you're different, dearie, you've been taught to think about it, and Dad and I have
explained it to you, often.'

'Yes, I know,' replied Frankie confidently.  'But even if you'd never taught me, I'm sure I
should have tumbled to it all right by myself; I'm not such a juggins as you think I am.'

'So you might, but you wouldn't if you'd been brought up in the same way as most of the workers.
They've been taught that it's very wicked to use their own judgement, or to think.  And their
children are being taught so now.  Do you remember what you told me the other day, when you
came home from school, about the Scripture lesson?'

'About St Thomas?'

'Yes.  What did the teacher say St Thomas was?'

'She said he was a bad example; and she said I was worse than him because I asked too many
foolish questions.  She always gets in a wax if I talk too much.'

'Well, why did she call St Thomas a bad example?'

'Because he wouldn't believe what he was told.'

'Exactly: well, when you told Dad about it what did he say?'

'Dad told me that really St Thomas was the only sensible man in the whole crowd of Apostles.
That is,' added Frankie, correcting himself, 'if there ever was such a man at all.'

'But did Dad say that there never was such a man?'

'No; he said HE didn't believe there ever was, but he told me to just listen to what the teacher
said about such things, and then to think about it in my own mind, and wait till I'm grown
up and then I can use my own judgement.'

'Well, now, that's what YOU were told, but all the other children's mothers and fathers tell
them to believe, without thinking, whatever the teacher says.  So it will be no wonder if those
children are not able to think for themselves when they're grown up, will it?'

'Don't you think it will be any use, then, for me to tell them what to do to the Idlers?' asked
Frankie, dejectedly.

'Hark!' said his mother, holding up her finger.

'Dad!' cried Frankie, rushing to the door and flinging it open.  He ran along the passage and
opened the staircase door before Owen reached the top of the last flight of stairs.

'Why ever do you come up at such a rate,' reproachfully exclaimed Owen's wife as he came into
the room exhausted from the climb upstairs and sank panting into the nearest chair.

'I al-ways-for-get,' he replied, when he had in some degree recovered. As he lay back in the
chair, his face haggard and of a ghastly whiteness, and with the water dripping from his saturated
clothing, Owen presented a terrible appearance.

Frankie noticed with childish terror the extreme alarm with which his mother looked at his father.

'You're always doing it,' he said with a whimper.  'How many more times will Mother have to
tell you about it before you take nay notice?'

'It's all right, old chap,' said Owen, drawing the child nearer to him and kissing the curly
head.  'Listen, and see if you can guess what I've got for you under my coat.'

In the silence the purring of the kitten was distinctly audible.

'A kitten!' cried the boy, taking it out of its hiding-place.  'All black, and I believe it's
half a Persian.  Just the very thing I wanted.'

While Frankie amused himself playing with the kitten, which had been provided with another
saucer of bread and milk, Owen went into the bedroom to put on the dry clothes, and then, those
that he had taken off having been placed with his boots near the fire to dry, he explained
as they were taking tea the reason of his late homecoming.

'I'm afraid he won't find it very easy to get another job,' he remarked, referring to Linden.
'Even in the summer nobody will be inclined to take him on.  He's too old.'

'It's a dreadful prospect for the two children,' answered his wife.

'Yes,' replied Owen bitterly.  'It's the children who will suffer most. As for Linden and his
wife, although of course one can't help feeling sorry for them, at the same time there's no
getting away from the fact that they deserve to suffer.  All their lives they've been working
like brutes and living in poverty.  Although they have done more than their fair share of the
work, they have never enjoyed anything like a fair share of the things they have helped to
produce. And yet, all their lives they have supported and defended the system that robbed them,
and have resisted and ridiculed every proposal to alter it.  It's wrong to feel sorry for such
people; they deserve to suffer.'

After tea, as he watched his wife clearing away the tea things and rearranging the drying clothing
by the fire, Owen for the first time noticed that she looked unusually ill.

'You don't look well tonight, Nora,' he said, crossing over to her and putting his arm around her.

'I don't feel well,' she replied, resting her head wearily against his shoulder.  'I've been
very bad all day and I had to lie down nearly all the afternoon.  I don't know how I should
have managed to get the tea ready if it had not been for Frankie.'

'I set the table for you, didn't I, Mum?' said Frankie with pride; 'and tidied up the room
as well.'

'Yes, darling, you helped me a lot,' she answered, and Frankie went over to her and kissed
her hand.

'Well, you'd better go to bed at once,' said Owen.  'I can put Frankie to bed presently and
do whatever else is necessary.'

'But there are so many things to attend to.  I want to see that your clothes are properly dry
and to put something ready for you to take in the morning before you go out, and then there's
your breakfast to pack up--'

'I can manage all that.'

'I didn't want to give way to it like this,' the woman said, 'because I know you must be tired
out yourself, but I really do feel quite done up now.'

'Oh, I'm all right,' replied Owen, who was really so fatigued that he was scarcely able to
stand.  'I'll go and draw the blinds down and light the other lamp; so say good night to Frankie
and come at once.'

'I won't say good night properly, now, Mum,' remarked the boy, 'because Dad can carry me into
your room before he puts me into bed.'

A little later, as Owen was undressing Frankie, the latter remarked as he looked affectionately
at the kitten, which was sitting on the hearthrug watching the child's every movement under
the impression that it was part of some game:

'What name do you think we ought to call it, Dad?'

'You may give him any name you like,' replied Owen, absently.

'I know a dog that lives down the road,' said the boy, 'his name is Major.  How would that
do?  Or we might call him Sergeant.'

The kitten, observing that he was the subject of their conversation, purred loudly and winked
as if to intimate that he did not care what rank was conferred upon him so long as the commisariat
department was properly attended to.

'I don't know, though,' continued Frankie, thoughtfully.  'They're all right names for dogs,
but I think they're too big for a kitten, don't you, Dad?'

'Yes, p'raps they are,' said Owen.

'Most cats are called Tom or Kitty, but I don't want a COMMON name for him.'

'Well, can't you call him after someone you know?'

'I know; I'll call him after a little girl that comes to our school; a fine name, Maud!  That'll
be a good one, won't it Dad?'

'Yes,' said Owen.

'I say, Dad,' said Frankie, suddenly realizing the awful fact that he was being put to bed.
'You're forgetting all about my story, and you promised that you'd have a game of trains with
me tonight.'

'I hadn't forgotten, but I was hoping that you had, because I'm very tired and it's very late,
long past your usual bedtime, you know.  You can take the kitten to bed with you tonight and
I'll tell you two stories tomorrow, because it's Saturday.'

'All right, then,' said the boy, contentedly; 'and I'll get the railway station built and I'll
have the lines chalked on the floor, and the signals put up before you come home, so that there'll
be no time wasted.  And I'll put one chair at one end of the room and another chair at the
other end, and tie some string across for telegraph wires. That'll be a very good idea, won't
it, Dad?' and Owen agreed.

'But of course I'll come to meet you just the same as other Saturdays, because I'm going to
buy a ha'porth of milk for the kitten out of my penny.'

After the child was in bed, Owen sat alone by the table in the draughty sitting-room, thinking.
Although there was a bright fire, the room was very cold, being so close to the roof.  The
wind roared loudly round the gables, shaking the house in a way that threatened every moment
to hurl it to the ground.  The lamp on the table had a green glass reservoir which was half
full of oil.  Owen watched this with unconscious fascination.  Every time a gust of wind struck
the house the oil in the lamp was agitated and rippled against the glass like the waves of
a miniature sea.  Staring abstractedly at the lamp, he thought of the future.

A few years ago the future had seemed a region of wonderful and mysterious possibilities of
good, but tonight the thought brought no such illusions, for he knew that the story of the
future was to be much the same as the story of the past.

The story of the past would continue to repeat itself for a few years longer.  He would continue
to work and they would all three continue to do without most of the necessaries of life.  When
there was no work they would starve.

For himself he did not care much because he knew that at the best--or worst--it would only
be a very few years.  Even if he were to have proper food and clothing and be able to take
reasonable care of himself, he could not live much longer; but when that time came, what was
to become of THEM?

There would be some hope for the boy if he were more robust and if his character were less
gentle and more selfish.  Under the present system it was impossible for anyone to succeed
in life without injuring other people and treating them and making use of them as one would
not like to be treated and made use of oneself.

In order to succeed in the world it was necessary to be brutal, selfish and unfeeling: to push
others aside and to take advantage of their misfortunes: to undersell and crush out one's competitors
by fair means or foul: to consider one's own interests first in every case, absolutely regardless
of the wellbeing of others.

That was the ideal character.  Owen knew that Frankie's character did not come up to this lofty
ideal.  Then there was Nora, how would she fare?

Owen stood up and began walking about the room, oppressed with a kind of terror.  Presently
he returned to the fire and began rearranging the clothes that were drying.  He found that
the boots, having been placed too near the fire, had dried too quickly and consequently the
sole of one of them had begun to split away from the upper: he remedied this as well as he
was able and then turned the wetter parts of the clothing to the fire.  Whilst doing this he
noticed the newspaper, which he had forgotten, in the coat pocket.  He drew it out with an
exclamation of pleasure.  Here was something to distract his thoughts: if not instructive or
comforting, it would at any rate be interesting and even amusing to read the reports of the
self-satisfied, futile talk of the profound statesmen who with comical gravity presided over
the working of the Great System which their combined wisdom pronounced to be the best that
could possibly be devised.  But tonight Owen was not to read of those things, for as soon as
he opened the paper his attention was riveted by the staring headline of one of the principal
columns:

                     TERRIBLE DOMESTIC TRAGEDY
                   Wife And Two Children Killed
                      Suicide of the Murderer

It was one of the ordinary poverty crimes.  The man had been without employment for many weeks
and they had been living by pawning or selling their furniture and other possessions.  But
even this resource must have failed at last, and when one day the neighbours noticed that the
blinds remained down and that there was a strange silence about the house, no one coming out
or going in, suspicions that something was wrong were quickly aroused.  When the police entered
the house, they found, in one of the upper rooms, the dead bodies of the woman and the two
children, with their throats severed, laid out side by side upon the bed, which was saturated
with their blood.

There was no bedstead and no furniture in the room except the straw mattress and the ragged
clothes and blankets which formed the bed upon the floor.

The man's body was found in the kitchen, lying with outstretched arms face downwards on the
floor, surrounded by the blood that had poured from the wound in his throat which had evidently
been inflicted by the razor that was grasped in his right hand.

No particle of food was found in the house, and on a nail in the wall in the kitchen was hung
a piece of blood-smeared paper on which was written in pencil:

'This is not my crime, but society's.'

The report went on to explain that the deed must have been perpetrated during a fit of temporary
insanity brought on by the sufferings the man had endured.

'Insanity!' muttered Owen, as he read this glib theory.  'Insanity! It seems to me that he
would have been insane if he had NOT killed them.'

Surely it was wiser and better and kinder to send them all to sleep, than to let them continue
to suffer.

At the same time he thought it very strange that the man should have chosen to do it that way,
when there were so many other cleaner, easier and more painless ways of accomplishing the same
object.  He wondered why it was that most of these killings were done in more or less the same
crude, cruel messy way.  No; HE would set about it in a different fashion.  He would get some
charcoal, then he would paste strips of paper over the joinings of the door and windows of
the room and close the register of the grate.  Then he would kindle the charcoal on a tray
or something in the middle of the room, and then they would all three just lie down together
and sleep; and that would be the end of everything.  There would be no pain, no blood, and no mess.

Or one could take poison.  Of course, there was a certain amount of difficulty in procuring
it, but it would not be impossible to find some pretext for buying some laudanum: one could
buy several small quantities at different shops until one had sufficient.  Then he remembered
that he had read somewhere that vermillion, one of the colours he frequently had to use in
his work, was one of the most deadly poisons: and there was some other stuff that photographers
used, which was very easy to procure.  Of course, one would have to be very careful about poisons,
so as not to select one that would cause a lot of pain.  It would be necessary to find out
exactly how the stuff acted before using it.  It would not be very difficult to do so.  Then
he remembered that among his books was one that probably contained some information about this
subject.  He went over to the book-shelf and presently found the volume; it was called The
Cyclopedia of Practical Medicine, rather an old book, a little out of date, perhaps, but still
it might contain the information he wanted.  Opening it, he turned to the table of contents.
Many different subjects were mentioned there and presently he found the one he sought:

Poisons: chemically, physiologically and pathologically considered.
    Corrosive Poisons.
    Narcotic Poisons.
    Slow Poisons.
    Consecutive Poisons.
    Accumulative Poisons.

He turned to the chapter indicated and, reading it, he was astonished to find what a number
of poisons there were within easy reach of whoever wished to make use of them: poisons that
could be relied upon to do their work certainly, quickly and without pain.  Why, it was not
even necessary to buy them: one could gather them from the hedges by the road side and in the
fields.

The more he thought of it the stranger it seemed that such a clumsy method as a razor should
be so popular.  Why almost any other way would be better and easier than that.  Strangulation
or even hanging, though the latter method could scarcely be adopted in that house, because
there were no beams or rafters or anything from which it would be possible to suspend a cord.
Still, he could drive some large nails or hooks into one of the walls.  For that matter, there
were already some clothes-hooks on some of the doors.  He began to think that this would be
an even more excellent way than poison or charcoal; he could easily pretend to Frankie that
he was going to show him some new kind of play.

He could arrange the cord on the hook on one of the doors and then under pretence of play,
it would be done.  The boy would offer no resistance, and in a few minutes it would all be over.

He threw down the book and pressed his hands over his ears: he fancied he could hear the boy's
hands and feet beating against the panels of the door as he struggled in his death agony.

Then, as his arms fell nervelessly by his side again, he thought that he heard Frankie's voice
calling.

'Dad!  Dad!'

Owen hastily opened the door.

'Are you calling, Frankie?'

'Yes.  I've been calling you quite a long time.'

'What do you want?'

'I want you to come here.  I want to tell you something.'

'Well, what is it dear?  I thought you were asleep a long time ago,' said Owen as he came into
the room.

'That's just what I want to speak to you about: the kitten's gone to sleep all right, but I
can't go.  I've tried all different ways, counting and all, but it's no use, so I thought I'd
ask you if you'd mind coming and staying with me, and letting me hold you hand for a little
while and the p'raps I could go.'

The boy twined his arms round Owen's neck and hugged him very tightly.

'Oh, Dad, I love you so much!' he said.  'I love you so much, I could squeeze you to death.'

'I'm afraid you will, if you squeeze me so tightly as that.'

The boy laughed softly as he relaxed his hold.  'That WOULD be a funny way of showing you how
much I love you, wouldn't it, Dad?  Squeezing you to death!'

'Yes, I suppose it would,' replied Owen huskily, as he tucked the bedclothes round the child's
shoulders.  'But don't talk any more, dear; just hold my hand and try to sleep.'

'All right,' said Frankie.

Lying there very quietly, holding his father's hand and occasionally kissing it, the child
presently fell asleep.  Then Owen got up very gently and, having taken the kitten out of the
bed again and arranged the bedclothes, he softly kissed the boy's forehead and returned to
the other room.

Looking about for a suitable place for the kitten to sleep in, he noticed Frankie's toy box,
and having emptied the toys on to the floor in a corner of the room, he made a bed in the box
with some rags and placed it on its side on the hearthrug, facing the fire, and with some difficulty
persuaded the kitten to lie in it.  Then, having placed the chairs on which his clothes were
drying at a safe distance from the fire, he went into the bedroom.  Nora was still awake.

'Are you feeling any better, dear?' he said.

'Yes, I'm ever so much better since I've been in bed, but I can't help worrying about your
clothes.  I'm afraid they'll never be dry enough for you to put on the first thing in the morning.
Couldn't you stay at home till after breakfast, just for once?'

'No; I mustn't do that.  If I did Hunter would probably tell me to stay away altogether.  I
believe he would be glad of an excuse to get rid of another full-price man just now.'

'But if it's raining like this in the morning, you'll be wet through before you get there.'

'It's no good worrying about that dear: besides, I can wear this old coat that I have no now,
over the other.'

'And if you wrap your old shoes in some paper, and take them with you, you can take off your
wet boots as soon as you get to the place.'

'Yes, all right,' responded Owen.  'Besides,' he added, reassuringly, 'even if I do get a little
wet, we always have a fire there, you know.'

'Well, I hope the weather will be a little better than this in the morning,' said Nora.  'Isn't
it a dreadful night!  I keep feeling afraid that the house is going to be blown down.'

Long after Nora was asleep, Owen lay listening to the howling of the wind and the noise of
the rain as it poured heavily on the roof...

Chapter 7

The Exterminating Machines

'Come on, Saturday!' shouted Philpot, just after seven o'clock one Monday morning as they were
getting ready to commence work.

It was still dark outside, but the scullery was dimly illuminated by the flickering light of
two candles which Crass had lighted and stuck on the shelf over the fireplace in order to enable
him to see to serve out the different lots of paints and brushes to the men.

'Yes, it do seem a 'ell of a long week, don't it?' remarked Harlow as he hung his overcoat
on a nail and proceeded to put on his apron and blouse.  'I've 'ad bloody near enough of it
already.'

'Wish to Christ it was breakfast-time,' growled the more easily satisfied Easton.

Extraordinary as it may appear, none of them took any pride in their work: they did not 'love'
it.  They had no conception of that lofty ideal of 'work for work's sake', which is so popular
with the people who do nothing.  On the contrary, when the workers arrived in the morning they
wished it was breakfast-time.  When they resumed work after breakfast they wished it was dinner-time.
After dinner they wished it was one o'clock on Saturday.

So they went on, day after day, year after year, wishing their time was over and, without realizing
it, really wishing that they were dead.

How extraordinary this must appear to those idealists who believe in 'work for work's sake',
but who themselves do nothing but devour or use and enjoy or waste the things that are produced
by the labour of those others who are not themselves permitted to enjoy a fair share of the
good things they help to create?

Crass poured several lots of colour into several pots.

'Harlow,' he said, 'you and Sawkins, when he comes, can go up and do the top bedrooms out with
this colour.  You'll find a couple of candles up there.  It's only goin' to 'ave one coat,
so see that you make it cover all right, and just look after Sawkins a bit so as 'e doesn't
make a bloody mess of it.  You do the doors and windows, and let 'im do the cupboards and skirtings.'

'That's a bit of all right, I must say,' Harlow said, addressing the company generally.  'We've
got to teach a b--r like 'im so as 'e can do us out of a job presently by working under price.'

'Well, I can't 'elp it,' growled Crass.  'You know 'ow it is: 'Unter sends 'im 'ere to do paintin',
and I've got to put 'im on it.  There ain't nothing else for 'im to do.'

Further discussion on this subject was prevented by Sawkins' arrival, nearly a quarter of an
hour late.

'Oh, you 'ave come, then,' sneered Crass.  'Thought p'raps you'd gorn for a 'oliday.'

Sawkins muttered something about oversleeping himself, and having hastily put on his apron,
he went upstairs with Harlow.

'Now, let's see,' Crass said, addressing Philpot.  'You and Newman 'ad better go and make a
start on the second floor: this is the colour, and 'ere's a couple of candles.  You'd better
not both go in one room or 'Unter will growl about it.  You take one of the front and let Newman
take one of the back rooms.  Take a bit of stoppin' with you: they're goin' to 'ave two coats,
but you'd better putty up the 'oles as well as you can, this time.'

'Only two coats!' said Philpot.  'Them rooms will never look nothing with two coats--a light
colour like this.'

'It's only goin' to get two, anyway,' returned Crass, testily. ''Unter said so, so you'll 'ave
to do the best you can with 'em, and get 'em smeared over middlin' sudden, too.'

Crass did not think it necessary to mention that according to the copy of the specification
of the work which he had in his pocket the rooms in question were supposed to have four coats.

Crass now turned to Owen.

'There's that drorin'-room,' he said.  'I don't know what's goin' to be done with that yet.
I don't think they've decided about it. Whatever's to be done to it will be an extra, because
all that's said about it in the contract is to face it up with putty and give it one coat of
white. So you and Easton 'ad better get on with it.'

Slyme was busy softening some putty by rubbing and squeezing it between his hands.

'I suppose I'd better finish the room I started on on Saturday?' he asked.

'All right,' replied Crass.  'Have you got enough colour?'

'Yes,' said Slyme.

As he passed through the kitchen on the way to his work, Slyme accosted Bert, the boy, who
was engaged in lighting, with some pieces of wood, a fire to boil the water to make the tea
for breakfast at eight o'clock.

'There's a bloater I want's cooked,' he said.

'All right,' replied Bert.  'Put it over there on the dresser along of Philpot's and mine.'

Slyme took the bloater from his food basket, but as he was about to put it in the place indicated,
he observed that his was rather a larger one than either of the other two.  This was an important
matter.  After they were cooked it would not be easy to say which was which: he might possibly
be given one of the smaller ones instead of his own.  He took out his pocket knife and cut
off the tail of the large bloater.

''Ere it is, then,' he said to Bert.  'I've cut the tail of mine so as you'll know which it is.'

It was now about twenty minutes past seven and all the other men having been started at work,
Crass washed his hands under the tap. Then he went into the kitchen and having rigged up a
seat by taking two of the drawers out of the dresser and placing them on the floor about six
feet apart and laying a plank across, he sat down in front of the fire, which was now burning
brightly under the pail, and, lighting his pipe, began to smoke.  The boy went into the scullery
and began washing up the cups and jars for the men to drink out of.

Bert was a lean, undersized boy about fifteen years of age and about four feet nine inches
in height.  He had light brown hair and hazel grey eyes, and his clothes were of many colours,
being thickly encrusted with paint, the result of the unskillful manner in which he did his
work, for he had only been at the trade about a year.  Some of the men had nicknamed him 'the
walking paint-shop', a title which Bert accepted good-humouredly.

This boy was an orphan.  His father had been a railway porter who had worked very laboriously
for twelve or fourteen hours every day for many years, with the usual result, namely, that
he and his family lived in a condition of perpetual poverty.  Bert, who was their only child
and not very robust, had early shown a talent for drawing, so when his father died a little
over a year ago, his mother readily assented when the boy said that he wished to become a decorator.
It was a nice light trade, and she thought that a really good painter, such as she was sure
he would become, was at least always able to earn a good living. Resolving to give the boy
the best possible chance, she decided if possible to place him at Rushton's, that being one
of the leading firms in the town.  At first Mr Rushton demanded ten pounds as a premium, the
boy to be bound for five years, no wages the first year, two shillings a week the second, and
a rise of one shilling every year for the remainder of the term.  Afterwards, as a special
favour--a matter of charity, in fact, as she was a very poor woman--he agreed to accept five
pounds.

This sum represented the thrifty savings of years, but the poor woman parted with it willingly
in order that the boy should become a skilled workman.  So Bert was apprenticed--bound for
five years--to Rushton & Co.

For the first few months his life had been spent in the paint-shop at the yard, a place that
was something between a cellar and a stable. There, surrounded by the poisonous pigments and
materials of the trade, the youthful artisan worked, generally alone, cleaning the dirty paint-pots
brought in by the workmen from finished 'jobs' outside, and occasionally mixing paint according
to the instructions of Mr Hunter, or one of the sub-foremen.

Sometimes he was sent out to carry materials to the places where the men were working--heavy
loads of paint or white lead--sometimes pails of whitewash that his slender arms had been too
feeble to carry more than a few yards at a time.

Often his fragile, childish figure was seen staggering manfully along, bending beneath the
weight of a pair of steps or a heavy plank.

He could manage a good many parcels at once: some in each hand and some tied together with
string and slung over his shoulders. Occasionally, however, there were more than he could carry;
then they were put into a handcart which he pushed or dragged after him to the distant jobs.

That first winter the boy's days were chiefly spent in the damp, evil-smelling, stone-flagged
paint-shop, without even a fire to warm the clammy atmosphere.

But in all this he had seen no hardship.  With the unconsciousness of boyhood, he worked hard
and cheerfully.  As time went on, the goal of his childish ambition was reached--he was sent
out to work with the men!  And he carried the same spirit with him, always doing his best to
oblige those with whom he was working.

He tried hard to learn, and to be a good boy, and he succeeded, fairly well.

He soon became a favourite with Owen, for whom he conceived a great respect and affection,
for he observed that whenever there was any special work of any kind to be done it was Owen
who did it.  On such occasions, Bert, in his artful, boyish way, would scheme to be sent to
assist Owen, and the latter whenever possible used to ask that the boy might be allowed to
work with him.

Bert's regard for Owen was equalled in intensity by his dislike of Crass, who was in the habit
of jeering at the boy's aspirations. 'There'll be plenty of time for you to think about doin'
fancy work after you've learnt to do plain painting,' he would say.

This morning, when he had finished washing up the cups and mugs, Bert returned with them to
the kitchen.

'Now let's see,' said Crass, thoughtfully, 'You've put the tea in the pail, I s'pose.'

'Yes.'

'And now you want a job, don't you?'

'Yes,' replied the boy.

'Well, get a bucket of water and that old brush and a swab, and go and wash off the old whitewash
and colouring orf the pantry ceiling and walls.'

'All right,' said Bert.  When he got as far as the door leading into the scullery he looked
round and said:

'I've got to git them three bloaters cooked by breakfast time.'

'Never mind about that,' said Crass.  'I'll do them.'

Bert got the pail and the brush, drew some water from the tap, got a pair of steps and a short
plank, one end of which he rested on the bottom shelf of the pantry and the other on the steps,
and proceeded to carry out Crass's instructions.

It was very cold and damp and miserable in the pantry, and the candle only made it seem more
so.  Bert shivered: he would like to have put his jacket on, but that was out of the question
at a job like this. He lifted the bucket of water on to one of the shelves and, climbing up
on to the plank, took the brush from the water and soaked about a square yard of the ceiling;
then he began to scrub it with the brush.

He was not very skilful yet, and as he scrubbed the water ran down over the stock of the brush,
over his hand and down his uplifted arm, wetting the turned-up sleeves of his shirt.  When
he had scrubbed it sufficiently he rinsed it off as well as he could with the brush, and then,
to finish with, he thrust his hand into the pail of water and, taking out the swab, wrung the
water out of it and wiped the part of the ceiling that he had washed.  Then he dropped it back
into the pail, and shook his numbed fingers to restore the circulation.  Then he peeped into
the kitchen, where Crass was still seated by the fire, smoking and toasting one of the bloaters
at the end of a pointed stick. Bert wished he would go upstairs, or anywhere, so that he himself
might go and have a warm at the fire.

''E might just as well 'ave let me do them bloaters,' he muttered to himself, regarding Crass
malignantly through the crack of the door. 'This is a fine job to give to anybody--a cold mornin'
like this.'

He shifted the pail of water a little further along the shelf and went on with the work.

A little later, Crass, still sitting by the fire, heard footsteps approaching along the passage.
He started up guiltily and, thrusting the hand holding his pipe into his apron pocket, retreated
hastily into the scullery.  He thought it might be Hunter, who was in the habit of turning
up at all sorts of unlikely times, but it was only Easton.

'I've got a bit of bacon I want the young 'un to toast for me,' he said as Crass came back.

'You can do it yourself if you like,' replied Crass affably, looking at his watch.  'It's about
ten to eight.'

Easton had been working for Rushton & Co. for a fortnight, and had been wise enough to stand
Crass a drink on several occasions: he was consequently in that gentleman's good books for
the time being.

'How are you getting on in there?' Crass asked, alluding to the work Easton and Owen were doing
in the drawing-room.  'You ain't fell out with your mate yet, I s'pose?'

'No; 'e ain't got much to say this morning; 'is cough's pretty bad.  I can generally manage
to get on orl right with anybody, you know,' Easton added.

'Well, so can I as a rule, but I get a bit sick listening to that bloody fool.  Accordin' to
'im, everything's wrong.  One day it's religion, another it's politics, and the next it's something
else.'

'Yes, it is a bit thick; too much of it,' agreed Easton, 'but I don't take no notice of the
bloody fool: that's the best way.'

'Of course, we know that things is a bit bad just now,' Crass went on, 'but if the likes of
'im could 'ave their own way they'd make 'em a bloody sight worse.'

'That's just what I say,' replied Easton.

'I've got a pill ready for 'im, though, next time 'e start yappin',' Crass continued as he
drew a small piece of printed paper from his waistcoat pocket.  'Just read that; it's out of
the Obscurer.'

Easton took the newspaper cutting and read it: 'Very good,' he remarked as he handed it back.

'Yes, I think that'll about shut 'im up.  Did yer notice the other day when we was talking
about poverty and men bein' out of work, 'ow 'e dodged out of answerin' wot I said about machinery
bein' the cause of it?   'e never answered me!  Started talkin' about something else.'

'Yes, I remember 'e never answered it,' said Easton, who had really no recollection of the
incident at all.

'I mean to tackle 'im about it at breakfast-time.  I don't see why 'e should be allowed to
get out of it like that.  There was a bloke down at the "Cricketers" the other night talkin'
about the same thing--a chap as takes a interest in politics and the like, and 'e said the
very same as me.  Why, the number of men what's been throwed out of work by all this 'ere new-fangled
machinery is something chronic!'

'Of course,' agreed Easton, 'everyone knows it.'

'You ought to give us a look in at the "Cricketers" some night. There's a lot of decent chaps
comes there.'

'Yes, I think I will.'

'What 'ouse do you usually use?' asked Crass after a pause.

Easton laughed.  'Well, to tell you the truth I've not used anywhere's lately.  Been 'avin
too many 'ollerdays.'

'That do make a bit of difference, don't it?' said Crass.  'But you'll be all right 'ere, till
this job's done.  Just watch yerself a bit, and don't get comin' late in the mornin's.  Old
Nimrod's dead nuts on that.'

'I'll see to that all right,' replied Easton.  'I don't believe in losing time when there IS
work to do.  It's bad enough when you can't get it.'

'You know,' Crass went on, confidentially.  'Between me an' you an' the gatepost, as the sayin'
is, I don't think Mr bloody Owen will be 'ere much longer.  Nimrod 'ates the sight of 'im.'

Easton had it in his mind to say that Nimrod seemed to hate the sight of all of them: but he
made no remark, and Crass continued:

''E's 'eard all about the way Owen goes on about politics and religion, an' one thing an' another,
an' about the firm scampin' the work.  You know that sort of talk don't do, does it?'

'Of course not.'

''Unter would 'ave got rid of 'im long ago, but it wasn't 'im as took 'im on in the first place.
It was Rushton 'imself as give 'im a start. It seems Owen took a lot of samples of 'is work
an' showed 'em to the Bloke.'

'Is them the things wot's 'angin' up in the shop-winder?'

'Yes!' said Crass, contemptuously.  'But 'e's no good on plain work. Of course 'e does a bit
of grainin' an' writin'--after a fashion--when there's any to do, and that ain't often, but
on plain work, why, Sawkins is as good as 'im for most of it, any day!'

'Yes, I suppose 'e is,' replied Easton, feeling rather ashamed of himself for the part he was
taking in this conversation.

Although he had for the moment forgotten the existence of Bert, Crass had instinctively lowered
his voice, but the boy--who had left off working to warm his hands by putting them into his
trousers pockets--managed, by listening attentively, to hear every word.

'You know there's plenty of people wouldn't give the firm no more work if they knowed about
it,' Crass continued.  'Just fancy sendin' a b--r like that to work in a lady's or gentleman's
'ouse--a bloody Atheist!'

'Yes, it is a bit orf, when you look at it like that.'

'I know my missis--for one--wouldn't 'ave a feller like that in our place.  We 'ad a lodger
once and she found out that 'e was a freethinker or something, and she cleared 'im out, bloody
quick, I can tell yer!'

'Oh, by the way,' said Easton, glad of an opportunity to change the subject, 'you don't happen
to know of anyone as wants a room, do you? We've got one more than we want, so the wife thought
that we might as well let it.'

Crass thought for a moment.  'Can't say as I do,' he answered, doubtfully.  'Slyme was talking
last week about leaving the place 'e's lodging at, but I don't know whether 'e's got another
place to go to. You might ask him.  I don't know of anyone else.'

'I'll speak to 'im,' replied Easton.  'What's the time? it must be nearly on it.'

'So it is: just on eight,' exclaimed Crass, and drawing his whistle he blew a shrill blast
upon it to apprise the others of the fact.

'Has anyone seen old Jack Linden since 'e got the push?' inquired Harlow during breakfast.

'I seen 'im Saterdy,' said Slyme.

'Is 'e doin' anything?'

'I don't know: I didn't 'ave time to speak to 'im.'

'No, 'e ain't got nothing,' remarked Philpot.  'I seen 'im Saterdy night, an' 'e told me 'e's
been walkin' about ever since.'

Philpot did not add that he had 'lent' Linden a shilling, which he never expected to see again.

''E won't be able to get a job again in a 'urry,' remarked Easton. ''E's too old.'

'You know, after all, you can't blame Misery for sackin' 'im,' said Crass after a pause.  ''E
was too slow for a funeral.'

'I wonder how much YOU'LL be able to do when you're as old as he is?' said Owen.

'P'raps I won't want to do nothing,' replied Crass with a feeble laugh. 'I'm goin' to live
on me means.'

'I should say the best thing old Jack could do would be to go in the union,' said Harlow.

'Yes: I reckon that's what'll be the end of it,' said Easton in a matter-of-fact tone.

'It's a grand finish, isn't it?' observed Owen.  'After working hard all one's life to be treated
like a criminal at the end.'

'I don't know what you call bein' treated like criminals,' exclaimed Crass.  'I reckon they
'as a bloody fine time of it, an' we've got to find the money.'

'Oh, for God's sake don't start no more arguments,' cried Harlow, addressing Owen.  'We 'ad
enough of that last week.  You can't expect a boss to employ a man when 'e's too old to work.'

'Of course not,' said Crass.

Philpot said--nothing.

'I don't see no sense in always grumblin',' Crass proceeded.  'These things can't be altered.
You can't expect there can be plenty of work for everyone with all this 'ere labour-savin'
machinery what's been invented.'

'Of course,' said Harlow, 'the people what used to be employed on the work what's now done
by machinery, has to find something else to do. Some of 'em goes to our trade, for instance:
the result is there's too many at it, and there ain't enough work to keep 'em all goin'.'

'Yes,' cried Crass, eagerly.  'That's just what I say.  Machinery is the real cause of the
poverty.  That's what I said the other day.'

'Machinery is undoubtedly the cause of unemployment,' replied Owen, 'but it's not the cause
of poverty: that's another matter altogether.'

The others laughed derisively.

'Well, it seems to me to amount to the same thing,' said Harlow, and nearly everyone agreed.

'It doesn't seem to me to amount to the same thing,' Owen replied. 'In my opinion, we are all
in a state of poverty even when we have employment--the condition we are reduced to when we're
out of work is more properly described as destitution.'

'Poverty,' continued Owen after a short silence, 'consists in a shortage of the necessaries
of life.  When those things are so scarce or so dear that people are unable to obtain sufficient
of them to satisfy all their needs, those people are in a condition of poverty. If you think
that the machinery, which makes it possible to produce all the necessaries of life in abundance,
is the cause of the shortage, it seems to me that there must be something the matter with your
minds.'

'Oh, of course we're all bloody fools except you,' snarled Crass. 'When they were servin' out
the sense, they give you such a 'ell of a lot, there wasn't none left for nobody else.'

'If there wasn't something wrong with your minds,' continued Owen, 'you would be able to see
that we might have "Plenty of Work" and yet be in a state of destitution.  The miserable wretches
who toil sixteen or eighteen hours a day--father, mother and even the little children--making
match-boxes, or shirts or blouses, have "plenty of work", but I for one don't envy them.  Perhaps
you think that if there was no machinery and we all had to work thirteen or fourteen hours
a day in order to obtain a bare living, we should not be in a condition of poverty?  Talk about
there being something the matter with your minds! If there were not, you wouldn't talk one
day about Tariff Reform as a remedy for unemployment and then the next day admit that Machinery
is the cause of it!  Tariff Reform won't do away with the machinery, will it?'

'Tariff Reform is the remedy for bad trade,' returned Crass.

'In that case Tariff Reform is the remedy for a disease that does not exist.  If you would
only take the trouble to investigate for yourself you would find out that trade was never so
good as it is at present: the output--the quantity of commodities of every kind--produced in
and exported from this country is greater than it has ever been before. The fortunes amassed
in business are larger than ever before: but at the same time--owing, as you have just admitted--to
the continued introduction and extended use of wages-saving machinery, the number of human
beings being employed is steadily decreasing.  I have here,' continued Owen, taking out his
pocket-book, 'some figures which I copied from the Daily Mail Year Book for 1907, page 33:

'"It is a very noticeable fact that although the number of factories and their value have vastly
increased in the United Kingdom, there is an absolute decrease in the number of men and women
employed in those factories between 1895 and 1901.  This is doubtless due to the displacement
of hand labour by machinery!"

'Will Tariff Reform deal with that?  Are the good, kind capitalists going to abandon the use
of wages-saving machinery if we tax all foreign-made goods?  Does what you call "Free Trade"
help us here?  Or do you think that abolishing the House of Lords, or disestablishing the Church,
will enable the workers who are displaced to obtain employment? Since it IS true--as you admit--that
machinery is the principal cause of unemployment, what are you going to do about it? What's
your remedy?'

No one answered, because none of them knew of any remedy: and Crass began to feel sorry that
he had re-introduced the subject at all.

'In the near future,' continued Owen, 'it is probable that horses will be almost entirely superseded
by motor cars and electric trams.  As the services of horses will be no longer required, all
but a few of those animals will be caused to die out: they will no longer be bred to the same
extent as formerly.  We can't blame the horses for allowing themselves to be exterminated.
They have not sufficient intelligence to understand what's being done.  Therefore they will
submit tamely to the extinction of the greater number of their kind.

'As we have seen, a great deal of the work which was formerly done by human beings is now being
done by machinery.  This machinery belongs to a few people: it is worked for the benefit of
those few, just the same as were the human beings it displaced.  These Few have no longer any
need of the services of so many human workers, so they propose to exterminate them!  The unnecessary
human beings are to be allowed to starve to death!  And they are also to be taught that it
is wrong to marry and breed children, because the Sacred Few do not require so many people
to work for them as before!'

'Yes, and you'll never be able to prevent it, mate!' shouted Crass.

'Why can't we?'

'Because it can't be done!' cried Crass fiercely.  'It's impossible!'

'You're always sayin' that everything's all wrong,' complained Harlow, 'but why the 'ell don't
you tell us 'ow they're goin' to be put right?'

'It doesn't seem to me as if any of you really wish to know.  I believe that even if it were
proved that it could be done, most of you would be sorry and would do all you could to prevent it.'

''E don't know 'isself,' sneered Crass.  'Accordin' to 'im, Tariff Reform ain't no bloody good--Free
Trade ain't no bloody good, and everybody else is wrong!  But when you arst 'im what ought
to be done--'e's flummoxed.'

Crass did not feel very satisfied with the result of this machinery argument, but he consoled
himself with the reflection that he would be able to flatten out his opponent on another subject.
The cutting from the Obscurer which he had in his pocket would take a bit of answering! When
you have a thing in print--in black and white--why there it is, and you can't get away from
it!  If it wasn't right, a paper like that would never have printed it.  However, as it was
now nearly half past eight, he resolved to defer this triumph till another occasion.  It was
too good a thing to be disposed of in a hurry.

Chapter 8

The Cap on the Stairs

After breakfast, when they were working together in the drawing-room, Easton, desiring to do
Owen a good turn, thought he would put him on his guard, and repeated to him in a whisper the
substance of the conversation he had held with Crass concerning him.

'Of course, you needn't mention that I told you, Frank,' he said, 'but I thought I ought to
let you know: you can take it from me, Crass ain't no friend of yours.'

'I've know that for a long time, mate,' replied Owen.  'Thanks for telling me, all the same.'

'The bloody rotter's no friend of mine either, or anyone else's, for that matter,' Easton continued,
'but of course it doesn't do to fall out with 'im because you never know what he'd go and say
to ol' 'Unter.'

'Yes, one has to remember that.'

'Of course we all know what's the matter with 'im as far as YOU'RE concerned,' Easton went
on.  'He don't like 'avin' anyone on the firm wot knows more about the work than 'e does 'imself--thinks
'e might git worked out of 'is job.'

Owen laughed bitterly.

'He needn't be afraid of ME on THAT account.  I wouldn't have his job if it were offered to me.'

'But 'e don't think so,' replied Easton, 'and that's why 'e's got 'is knife into you.'

'I believe that what he said about Hunter is true enough,' said Owen. 'Every time he comes
here he tries to goad me into doing or saying something that would give him an excuse to tell
me to clear out.  I might have done it before now if I had not guessed what he was after, and
been on my guard.'

Meantime, Crass, in the kitchen, had resumed his seat by the fire with the purpose of finishing
his pipe of tobacco.  Presently he took out his pocket-book and began to write in it with a
piece of black-lead pencil.  When the pipe was smoked out he knocked the bowl against the grate
to get rid of the ash, and placed the pipe in his waistcoat pocket.  Then, having torn out
the leaf on which he had been writing, he got up and went into the pantry, where Bert was still
struggling with the old whitewash.

'Ain't yer nearly finished?  I don't want yer to stop in 'ere all day, yer know.'

'I ain't got much more to do now,' said the boy.  'Just this bit under the bottom shelf and
then I'm done.'

'Yes, and a bloody fine mess you've made, what I can see of it!' growled Crass.  'Look at all
this water on the floor!'

Bert looked guiltily at the floor and turned very red.

'I'll clean it all up', he stammered.  'As soon as I've got this bit of wall done, I'll wipe
all the mess up with the swab.'

Crass now took a pot of paint and some brushes and, having put some more fuel on the fire,
began in a leisurely way to paint some of the woodwork in the kitchen.  Presently Bert came in.

'I've finished there,' he said.

'About time, too.  You'll 'ave to look a bit livelier than you do, you know, or me and you
will fall out.'

Bert did not answer.

'Now I've got another job for yer.  You're fond of drorin, ain't yer?' continued Crass in a
jeering tone.

'Yes, a little,' replied the boy, shamefacedly.

'Well,' said Crass, giving him the leaf he had torn out of the pocket-book, 'you can go up
to the yard and git them things and put 'em on a truck and dror it up 'ere, and git back as
soon as you can. Just look at the paper and see if you understand it before you go.  I don't
want you to make no mistakes.'

Bert took the paper and with some difficulty read as follows:

    I pare steppes 8 foot
    1/2 gallon Plastor off perish
    1 pale off witewosh
    12 lbs wite led
    1/2 gallon Linsede Hoil
    Do. Do. turps

'I can make it out all right.'

'You'd better bring the big truck,' said Crass, 'because I want you to take the venetian blinds
with you on it when you take it back tonight. They've got to be painted at the shop.'

'All right.'

When the boy had departed Crass took a stroll through the house to see how the others were
getting on.  Then he returned to the kitchen and proceeded with his work.

Crass was about thirty-eight years of age, rather above middle height and rather stout.  He
had a considerable quantity of curly black hair and wore a short beard of the same colour.
His head was rather large, but low, and flat on top.  When among his cronies he was in the
habit of referring to his obesity as the result of good nature and a contented mind.  Behind
his back other people attributed it to beer, some even going to far as to nickname him the 'tank'.

There was no work of a noisy kind being done this morning.  Both the carpenters and the bricklayers
having been taken away, temporarily, to another 'job'.  At the same time there was not absolute
silence: occasionally Crass could hear the voices of the other workmen as they spoke to each
other, sometimes shouting from one room to another.  Now and then Harlow's voice rang through
the house as he sang snatches of music-hall songs or a verse of a Moody and Sankey hymn, and
occasionally some of the others joined in the chorus or interrupted the singer with squeals
and catcalls.  Once or twice Crass was on the point of telling them to make less row: there
would be a fine to do if Nimrod came and heard them.  Just as he had made up his mind to tell
them to stop the noise, it ceased of itself and he heard loud whispers:

'Look out!  Someone's comin'.'

The house became very quiet.

Crass put out his pipe and opened the window and the back door to get rid of the smell of the
tobacco smoke.  Then he shifted the pair of steps noisily, and proceeded to work more quickly
than before.  Most likely it was old Misery.

He worked on for some time in silence, but no one came to the kitchen: whoever it was must
have gone upstairs.  Crass listened attentively. Who could it be?  He would have liked to go
to see whom it was, but at the same time, if it were Nimrod, Crass wished to be discovered
at work.  He therefore waited a little longer and presently he heard the sound of voices upstairs
but was unable to recognize them.  He was just about to go out into the passage to listen,
when whoever it was began coming downstairs.  Crass at once resumed his work.  The footsteps
came along the passage leading to the kitchen: slow, heavy, ponderous footsteps, but yet the
sound was not such as would be made by a man heavily shod.  It was not Misery, evidently.

As the footsteps entered the kitchen, Crass looked round and beheld a very tall, obese figure,
with a large, fleshy, coarse-featured, clean-shaven face, and a great double chin, the complexion
being of the colour and appearance of the fat of uncooked bacon.  A very large fleshy nose
and weak-looking pale blue eyes, the slightly inflamed lids being almost destitute of eye-lashes.
He had large fat feet cased in soft calfskin boots, with drab-coloured spats.  His overcoat,
heavily trimmed with sealskin, reached just below the knees, and although the trousers were
very wide they were filled by the fat legs within, the shape of the calves being distinctly
perceptible.  Even as the feet seemed about to burst the uppers of the boots, so the legs appeared
to threaten the trousers with disruption.  This man was so large that his figure completely
filled up the doorway, and as he came in he stooped slightly to avoid damaging the glittering
silk hat on his head.  One gloved hand was thrust into the pocket of the overcoat and in the
other he carried a small Gladstone bag.

When Crass beheld this being, he touched his cap respectfully.

'Good morning, sir!'

'Good morning.  They told me upstairs that I should find the foreman here.  Are you the foreman?'

'Yes, sir.'

'I see you're getting on with the work here.'

'Ho yes sir, we're beginning to make a bit hov a show now, sir,' replied Crass, speaking as
if he had a hot potato in his mouth.

'Mr Rushton isn't here yet, I suppose?'

'No, sir: 'e don't horfun come hon the job hin the mornin, sir; 'e generally comes hafternoons,
sir, but Mr 'Unter's halmost sure to be 'ere presently, sir.'

'It's Mr Rushton I want to see: I arranged to meet him here at ten o'clock; but'--looking at
his watch--'I'm rather before my time.'

'He'll be here presently, I suppose,' added Mr Sweater.  'I'll just take a look round till
he comes.'

'Yes, sir,' responded Crass, walking behind him obsequiously as he went out of the room.

Hoping that the gentleman might give him a shilling, Crass followed him into the front hall
and began explaining what progress had so far been made with the work, but as Mr Sweater answered
only by monosyllables and grunts, Crass presently concluded that his conversation was not appreciated
and returned to the kitchen.

Meantime, upstairs, Philpot had gone into Newman's room and was discussing with him the possibility
of extracting from Mr Sweater the price of a little light refreshment.

'I think,' he remarked, 'that we oughter see-ise this 'ere tuneropperty to touch 'im for an
allowance.'

'We won't git nothin' out of 'IM, mate,' returned Newman.  ''E's a red-'ot teetotaller.'

'That don't matter.  'Ow's 'e to know that we buys beer with it?  We might 'ave tea, or ginger
ale, or lime-juice and glycerine for all 'e knows!'

Mr Sweater now began ponderously re-ascending the stairs and presently came into the room where
Philpot was.  The latter greeted him with respectful cordiality:

'Good morning, sir.'

'Good morning.  You've begun painting up here, then.'

'Yes, sir, we've made a start on it,' replied Philpot, affably.

'Is this door wet?' asked Sweater, glancing apprehensively at the sleeve of his coat.

'Yes, sir,' answered Philpot, and added, as he looked meaningly at the great man, 'the paint
is wet, sir, but the PAINTERS is dry.'

'Confound it!' exclaimed Sweater, ignoring, or not hearing the latter part of Philpot's reply.
'I've got some of the beastly stuff on my coat sleeve.'

'Oh, that's nothing, sir,' cried Philpot, secretly delighted.  'I'll get that orf for yer in
no time.  You wait just 'arf a mo!'

He had a piece of clean rag in his tool bag, and there was a can of turps in the room.  Moistening
the rag slightly with turps he carefully removed the paint from Sweater's sleeve.

'It's all orf not, sir,' he remarked, as he rubbed the place with a dry part of the rag.  'The
smell of the turps will go away in about a hour's time.'

'Thanks,' said Sweater.

Philpot looked at him wistfully, but Sweater evidently did not understand, and began looking
about the room.

'I see they've put a new piece of skirting here,' he observed.

'Yes, sir,' said Newman, who came into the room just then to get the turps.  'The old piece
was all to bits with dry-rot.'

'I feel as if I 'ad a touch of the dry-rot meself, don't you?' said Philpot to Newman, who
smiled feebly and cast a sidelong glance at Sweater, who did not appear to notice the significance
of the remark, but walked out of the room and began climbing up to the next floor, where Harlow
and Sawkins were working.

'Well, there's a bleeder for yer!' said Philpot with indignation. 'After all the trouble I
took to clean 'is coat!  Not a bloody stiver! Well, it takes the cake, don't it?'

'I told you 'ow it would be, didn't I?' replied Newman.

'P'raps I didn't make it plain enough,' said Philpot, thoughtfully. 'We must try to get some
of our own back somehow, you know.'

Going out on the landing he called softly upstairs.

'I say, Harlow.'

'Hallo,' said that individual, looking over the banisters.

''Ow are yer getting on up there?'

'Oh, all right, you know.'

'Pretty dry job, ain't it?' Philpot continued, raising his voice a little and winking at Harlow.

'Yes, it is, rather,' replied Harlow with a grin.

'I think this would be a very good time to take up the collection, don't you?'

'Yes, it wouldn't be a bad idear.'

'Well, I'll put me cap on the stairs,' said Philpot, suiting the action to the word.  'You
never knows yer luck.  Things is gettin' a bit serious on this floor, you know; my mate's fainted
away once already!'

Philpot now went back to his room to await developments: but as Sweater made no sign, he returned
to the landing and again hailed Harlow.

'I always reckon a man can work all the better after 'e's 'ad a drink: you can seem to get
over more of it, like.'

'Oh, that's true enough,' responded Harlow.  'I've often noticed it meself.'

Sweater came out of the front bedroom and passed into one of the back rooms without any notice
of either of the men.

'I'm afraid it's a frost, mate,' Harlow whispered, and Philpot, shaking his head sadly, returned
to work; but in a little while he came out again and once more accosted Harlow.

'I knowed a case once,' he said in a melancholy tone, 'where a chap died--of thirst--on a job
just like this; and at the inquest the doctor said as 'arf a pint would 'a saved 'im!'

'It must 'ave been a norrible death,' remarked Harlow.

''Orrible ain't the work for it, mate,' replied Philpot, mournfully. 'It was something chronic!'

After this final heartrending appeal to Sweater's humanity they returned to work, satisfied
that, whatever the result of their efforts, they had done their best.  They had placed the
matter fully and fairly before him: nothing more could be said: the issue now rested entirely
with him.

But it was all in vain.  Sweater either did not or would not understand, and when he came downstairs
he took no notice whatever of the cap which Philpot had placed so conspicuously in the centre
of the landing floor.

Chapter 9

Who is to Pay?

Sweater reached the hall almost at the same moment that Rushton entered by the front door.
They greeted each other in a friendly way and after a few remarks concerning the work that
was being done, they went into the drawing-room where Owen and Easton were and Rushton said:

'What about this room?  Have you made up your mind what you're going to have done to it?'

'Yes,' replied Sweater; 'but I'll tell you about that afterwards. What I'm anxious about is
the drains.  Have you brought the plans?'

'Yes.'

'What's it going to cost?'

'Just wait a minute,' said Rushton, with a slight gesture calling Sweater's attention to the
presence of the two workmen.  Sweater understood.

'You might leave that for a few minutes, will you?' Rushton continued, addressing Owen and
Easton.  'Go and get on with something else for a little while.'

When they were alone, Rushton closed the door and remarked: 'It's always as well not to let
these fellows know more than is necessary.'

Sweater agreed.

'Now this 'ere drain work is really two separate jobs,' said Rushton. 'First, the drains of
the house: that is, the part of the work that' actually on your ground.  When that's done,
there will 'ave to be a pipe carried right along under this private road to the main road to
connect the drains of the house with the town main.  You follow me?'

'Perfectly.  What's it going to cost for the lot?'

'For the drains of the house, £25.0.0. and for the connecting pipe £30.0.0.  £55.0.0. for the lot.'

'Um!  That the lower you can do it for, eh?'

'That's the lowest.  I've figured it out most carefully, the time and materials, and that's
practically all I'm charging you.'

The truth of the matter was that Rushton had had nothing whatever to do with estimating the
cost of this work: he had not the necessary knowledge to do so.  Hunter had drawn the plans,
calculated the cost and prepared the estimate.

'I've been thinking over this business lately,' said Sweater, looking at Rushton with a cunning
leer.  'I don't see why I should have to pay for the connecting pipe.  The Corporation ought
to pay for that.  What do you say?'

Rushton laughed.  'I don't see why not,' he replied.

'I think we could arrange it all right, don't you?' Sweater went on. 'Anyhow, the work will
have to be done, so you'd better let 'em get on with it.  £55.0.0. covers both jobs, you say?'

'Yes.'

'Oh, all right, you get on with it and we'll see what can be done with the Corporation later on.'

'I don't suppose we'll find 'em very difficult to deal with,' said Rushton with a grin, and
Sweater smiled agreement.

As they were passing through the hall they met Hunter, who had just arrived.  He was rather
surprised to see them, as he knew nothing of their appointment.  He wished them 'Good morning'
in an awkward hesitating undertone as if he were doubtful how his greeting would be received.
Sweater nodded slightly, but Rushton ignored him altogether and Nimrod passed on looking and
feeling like a disreputable cur that had just been kicked.

As Sweater and Rushton walked together about the house, Hunter hovered about them at a respectable
distance, hoping that presently some notice might be taken of him.  His dismal countenance
became even longer than usual when he observed that they were about to leave the house without
appearing even to know that he was there.  However, just as they were going out, Rushton paused
on the threshold and called him:

'Mr Hunter!'

'Yes, sir.'

Nimrod ran to him like a dog taken notice of by his master: if he had possessed a tail, it
is probable that he would have wagged it. Rushton gave him the plans with an intimation that
the work was to be proceeded with.

For some time after they were gone, Hunter crawled silently about the house, in and out of
the rooms, up and down the corridors  and the staircases.  After a while he went into the room
where Newman was and stood quietly watching him for about ten minutes as he worked.  The man
was painting the skirting, and just then he came to a part that was split in several places,
so he took his knife and began to fill the cracks with putty.  He was so nervous under Hunter's
scrutiny that his hand trembled to such an extent that it took him about twice as long as it
should have done, and Hunter told him so with brutal directness.

'Never mind about puttying up such little cracks as them!' he shouted. 'Fill 'em up with the
paint.   We can't afford to pay you for messing about like that!'

Newman made no reply.

Misery found no excuse for bullying anyone else, because they were all tearing into it for
all they were worth.  As he wandered up and down the house like an evil spirit, he was followed
by the furtively unfriendly glances of the men, who cursed him in their hearts as he passed.

He sneaked into the drawing-room and after standing with a malignant expression, silently watching
Owen and Easton, he came out again without having uttered a word.

Although he frequently acted in this manner, yet somehow today the circumstance worried Owen
considerably.  He wondered uneasily what it meant, and began to feel vaguely apprehensive.
Hunter's silence seemed more menacing than his speech.

Chapter 10

The Long Hill

Bert arrived at the shop and with as little delay as possible loaded up the handcart with all
the things he had been sent for and start on the return journey.  He got on all right in the
town, because the roads were level and smooth, being paved with wood blocks.  If it had only
been like that all the way it would have been easy enough, although he was a small boy for
such a large truck, and such a heavy load.  While the wood road lasted the principal trouble
he experienced was the difficulty of seeing where he was going, the handcart being so high
and himself so short.  The pair of steps on the cart of course made it all the worse in that
respect.  However, by taking great care he managed to get through the town all right, although
he narrowly escaped colliding with several vehicles, including two or three motor cars and
an electric tram, besides nearly knocking over an old woman who was carrying a large bundle
of washing.  From time to time he saw other small boys of his acquaintance, some of them former
schoolmates. Some of these passed by carrying heavy loads of groceries in baskets, and others
with wooden trays full of joints of meat.

Unfortunately, the wood paving ceased at the very place where the ground began to rise.  Bert
now found himself at the beginning of a long stretch of macadamized road which rose slightly
and persistently throughout its whole length.  Bert had pushed a cart up this road many times
before and consequently knew the best method of tackling it. Experience had taught him that
a full frontal attack on this hill was liable to failure, so on this occasion he followed his
usual plan of making diagonal movements, crossing the road repeatedly from right to left and
left to right, after the fashion of a sailing ship tacking against the wind, and halting about
every twenty yards to rest and take breath.  The distance he was to go was regulated, not so
much by his powers of endurance as by the various objects by the wayside--the lamp-posts, for
instance.  During each rest he used to look ahead and select a certain lamp-post or street
corner as the next stopping-place, and when he start again he used to make the most strenuous
and desperate efforts to reach it.

Generally the goal he selected was too distant, for he usually overestimated his strength,
and whenever he was forced to give in he ran the truck against the kerb and stood there panting
for breath and feeling profoundly disappointed at his failure.

On the present occasion, during one of these rests, it flashed upon him that he was being a
very long time: he would have to buck up or he would get into a row: he was not even half-way
up the road yet!

Selecting a distant lamp-post, he determined to reach it before resting again.

The cart had a single shaft with a cross-piece at the end, forming the handle: he gripped this
fiercely with both hands and, placing his chest against it, with a mighty effort he pushed
the cart before him.

It seemed to get heavier and heavier every foot of the way.  His whole body, but especially
the thighs and calves of his legs, pained terribly, but still he strained and struggled and
said to himself that he would not give in until he reached the lamp-post.

Finding that the handle hurt his chest, he lowered it to his waist, but that being even more
painful he raised it again to his chest, and struggled savagely on, panting for breath and
with his heart beating wildly.

The cart became heavier and heavier.  After a while it seemed to the boy as if there were someone
at the front of it trying to push him back down the hill.  This was such a funny idea that
for a moment he felt inclined to laugh, but the inclination went almost as soon as it came
and was replaced by the dread that he would not be able to hold out long enough to reach the
lamp-post, after all.  Clenching his teeth, he made a tremendous effort and staggered forward
two or three more steps and then--the cart stopped.  He struggled with it despairingly for
a few seconds, but all the strength had suddenly gone out of him: his legs felt so weak that
he nearly collapsed on to the ground, and the cart began to move backwards down the hill. 
He was just able to stick to it and guide it so that it ran into and rested against the kerb,
and then he stood holding it in a half-dazed way, very pale, saturated with perspiration, and
trembling.  His legs in particular shook so much that he felt that unless he could sit down
for a little, he would FALL down.

He lowered the handle very carefully so as not to spill the whitewash out of the pail which
was hanging from a hook under the cart, then, sitting down on the kerbstone, he leaned wearily
against the wheel.

A little way down the road was a church with a clock in the tower.  It was five minutes to
ten by this clock.  Bert said to himself that when it was ten he would make another start.

Whilst he was resting he thought of many things.  Just behind that church was a field with
several ponds in it where he used to go with other boys to catch effets.  It if were not for
the cart he would go across now, to see whether there were any there still.  He remembered
that he had been very eager to leave school and go to work, but they used to be fine old times
after all.

Then he thought of the day when his mother took him to Mr Rushton's office to 'bind' him. 
He remembered that day very vividly: it was almost a year ago.  How nervous he had been!  His
hand had trembled so that he was scarcely able to hold the pen.  And even when it was all over,
they had both felt very miserable, somehow.  His mother had been very nervous in the office
also, and when they got home she cried a lot and called him her poor little fatherless boy,
and said she hoped he would be good and try to learn.  And then he cried as well, and promised
her that he would do his best.  He reflected with pride that he was keeping his promise about
being a good boy and trying to learn: in fact, he knew a great deal about the trade already--he
could paint back doors as well as anybody! and railings as well.  Owen had taught him lots
of things and had promised to do some patterns of graining for him so that he might practise
copying them at home in the evenings. Owen was a fine chap.  Bert resolved that he would tell
him what Crass had been saying to Easton.  Just fancy, the cheek of a rotter like Crass, trying
to get Owen the sack!  It would be more like it if Crass was to be sacked himself, so that
Owen could be the foreman.

One minute to ten.

With a heavy heart Bert watched the clock.  His legs were still aching very badly.  He could
not see the hands of the clock moving, but they were creeping on all the same.  Now, the minute
hand was over the edge of the number, and he began to deliberate whether he might not rest
for another five minutes?  But he had been such a long time already on his errand that he dismissed
the thought.  The minute hand was now upright and it was time to go on.

Just as he was about to get up a harsh voice behind him said:

'How much longer are you going to sit there?'

Bert started up guiltily, and found himself confronted by Mr Rushton, who was regarding him
with an angry frown, whilst close by towered the colossal figure of the obese Sweater, the
expression on his greasy countenance betokening the pain he experienced on beholding such as
appalling example of juvenile depravity.

'What do you mean by sich conduct?' demanded Rushton, indignantly. 'The idear of sitting there
like that when most likely the men are waiting for them things?'

Crimson with shame and confusion, the boy made no reply.

'You've been there a long time,' continued Rushton, 'I've been watchin' you all the time I've
been comin' down the road.'

Bert tried to speak to explain why he had been resting, but his mouth and his tongue had become
quite parched from terror and he was unable to articulate a single word.

'You know, that's not the way to get on in life, my boy,' observed Sweater lifting his forefinger
and shaking his fat head reproachfully.

'Get along with you at once!' Rushton said, roughly.  'I'm surprised at yer!  The idear!  Sitting
down in my time!'

This was quite true.  Rushton was not merely angry, but astonished at the audacity of the boy.
That anyone in his employment should dare to have the impertinence to sit down in his time
was incredible.

The boy lifted the handle of the cart and once more began to push it up the hill.  It seemed
heavier now that ever, but he managed to get on somehow.  He kept glancing back after Rushton
and Sweater, who presently turned a corner and were lost to view: then he ran the cart to the
kerb again to have a breathe.  He couldn't have kept up much further without a spell even if
they had still been watching him, but he didn't rest for more than about half a minute this
time, because he was afraid they might be peeping round the corner at him.

After this he gave up the lamp-post system and halted for a minute or so at regular short intervals.
In this way, he at length reached the top of the hill, and with a sigh of relief congratulated
himself that the journey was practically over.

Just before he arrived at the gate of the house, he saw Hunter sneak out and mount his bicycle
and ride away.  Bert wheeled his cart up to the front door and began carrying in the things.
Whilst thus engaged he noticed Philpot peeping cautiously over the banisters of the staircase,
and called out to him:

'Give us a hand with this bucket of whitewash, will yer, Joe?'

'Certainly, me son, with the greatest of hagony,' replied Philpot as he hurried down the stairs.

As they were carrying it in Philpot winked at Bert and whispered:

'Did yer see Pontius Pilate anywheres outside?'

''E went away on 'is bike just as I come in at the gate.'

'Did 'e?  Thank Gord for that!  I don't wish 'im no 'arm,' said Philpot, fervently, 'but I
'opes 'e gets runned over with a motor.'

In this wish Bert entirely concurred, and similar charitable sentiments were expressed by all
the others as soon as they heard that Misery was gone.

Just before four o'clock that afternoon Bert began to load up the truck with the venetian blinds,
which had been taken down some days previously.

'I wonder who'll have the job of paintin' 'em?' remarked Philpot to Newman.

'P'raps's they'll take a couple of us away from ere.'

'I shouldn't think so.  We're short-'anded 'ere already.  Most likely they'll put on a couple
of fresh 'ands.  There's a 'ell of a lot of work in all them blinds, you know: I reckon they'll
'ave to 'ave there or four coats, the state they're in.'

'Yes.  No doubt that's what will be done,' replied Newman, and added with a mirthless laugh:

'I don't suppose they'll have much difficulty in getting a couple of chaps.'

'No, you're right, mate.  There's plenty of 'em walkin' about as a week's work would be a Gordsend
to.'

'Come to think of it,' continued Newman after a pause, 'I believe the firm used to give all
their blind work to old Latham, the venetian blind maker.  Prap's they'll give 'im this lot to do.'

'Very likely,' replied Philpot, 'I should think 'e can do 'em cheaper even than us chaps, and
that's all the firm cares about.'

How far their conjectures were fulfilled will appear later.

Shortly after Bert was gone it became so dark that it was necessary to light the candles, and
Philpot remarked that although he hated working under such conditions, yet he was always glad
when lighting up time came, because then knocking off time was not very far behind.

About five minutes to five, just as they were all putting their things away for the night,
Nimrod suddenly appeared in the house.  He had come hoping to find some of them ready dressed
to go home before the proper time.  Having failed in this laudable enterprise, he stood silently
by himself for some seconds in the drawing-room.  This was a spacious and lofty apartment with
a large semicircular bay window. Round the ceiling was a deep cornice.  In the semi-darkness
the room appeared to be of even greater proportions than it really was.  After standing thinking
in this room for a little while, Hunter turned and strode out to the kitchen, where the men
were preparing to go home. Owen was taking off his blouse and apron as the other entered. 
Hunter addressed him with a malevolent snarl:

'You can call at the office tonight as you go home.'

Owen's heart seemed to stop beating.  All the petty annoyances he had endured from Hunter rushed
into his memory, together with what Easton had told him that morning.  He stood, still and
speechless, holding his apron in his hand and staring at the manager.

'What for?' he ejaculated at length.  'What's the matter?'

'You'll find out what you're wanted for when you get there,' returned Hunter as he went out
of the room and away from the house.

When he was gone a dead silence prevailed.  The hands ceased their preparations for departure
and looked at each other and at Owen in astonishment.  To stand a man off like that--when the
job was not half finished--and for no apparent reason: and of a Monday, too.  It was unheard
of.  There was a general chorus of indignation.  Harlow and Philpot especially were very wroth.

'If it comes to that,' Harlow shouted, 'they've got no bloody right to do it!  We're entitled
to an hour's notice.'

'Of course we are!' cried Philpot, his goggle eyes rolling wildly with wrath.  'And I should
'ave it too, if it was me.  You take my tip, Frank: CHARGE UP TO SIX O'CLOCK on yer time sheet
and get some of your own back.'

Everyone joined in the outburst of indignant protest.  Everyone, that is, except Crass and
Slyme.  But then they were not exactly in the kitchen: they were out in the scullery putting
their things away, and so it happened that they said nothing, although they exchanged significant
looks.

Owen had by this time recovered his self-possession.  He collected all his tools and put them
with his apron and blouse into his tool-bag with the purpose of taking them with him that night,
but on reflection he resolved not to do so.  After all, it was not absolutely certain that
he was going to be 'stood off': possibly they were going to send him on some other job.

They kept all together--some walking on the pavement and some in the road--until they got down
town, and then separated.  Crass, Sawkins, Bundy and Philpot adjourned to the 'Cricketers'
for a drink, Newman went on by himself, Slyme accompanied Easton who had arranged with him
to come that night to see the bedroom, and Owen went in the direction of the office.

Chapter 11

Hands and Brains

Rushton & Co.'s premises were situated in one of the principal streets of Mugsborough and consisted
of a double-fronted shop with plate glass windows.  The shop extended right through to the
narrow back street which ran behind it.  The front part of the shop was stocked with wall-hangings,
mouldings, stands showing patterns of embossed wall and ceiling decorations, cases of brushes,
tins of varnish and enamel, and similar things.

The office was at the rear and was separated from the rest of the shop by a partition, glazed
with muranese obscured glass.  This office had two doors, one in the partition, giving access
to the front shop, and the other by the side of the window and opening on to the back street.
The glass of the lower sash of the back window consisted of one large pane on which was painted
'Rushton & Co.' in black letters on a white ground.

Owen stood outside this window for two or three seconds before knocking.  There was a bright
light in the office.  Then he knocked at the door, which was at once opened from the inside
by Hunter, and Owen went in.

Rushton was seated in an armchair at his desk, smoking a cigar and reading one of several letters
that were lying before him.  At the back was a large unframed photograph of the size known
as half-plate of the interior of some building.  At another desk, or rather table, at the other
side of the office, a young woman was sitting writing in a large ledger.  There was a typewriting
machine on the table at her side.

Rushton glanced up carelessly as Owen came in, but took no further notice of him.

'Just wait a minute,' Hunter said to Owen, and then, after conversing in a low tone with Rushton
for a few minutes, the foreman put on his hat and went out of the office through the partition
door which led into the front shop.

Owen stood waiting for Rushton to speak.  He wondered why Hunter had sneaked off and felt inclined
to open the door and call him back.  One thing he was determined about: he meant to have some
explanation: he would not submit tamely to be dismissed without any just reason.

When he had finished reading the letter, Rushton looked up, and, leaning comfortably back in
his chair, he blew a cloud of smoke from his cigar, and said in an affable, indulgent tone,
such as one might use to a child:

'You're a bit of a hartist, ain't yer?'

Owen was so surprised at this reception that he was for the moment unable to reply.

'You know what I mean,' continued Rushton; 'decorating work, something like them samples of
yours what's hanging up there.'

He noticed the embarrassment of Owen's manner, and was gratified.  He thought the man was confused
at being spoken to by such a superior person as himself.

Mr Rushton was about thirty-five years of age, with light grey eyes, fair hair and moustache,
and his complexion was a whitey drab.  He was tall--about five feet ten inches--and rather
clumsily built; not corpulent, but fat--in good condition.  He appeared to be very well fed
and well cared for generally.  His clothes were well made, of good quality and fitted him perfectly.
He was dressed in a grey Norfolk suit, dark brown boots and knitted woollen stockings reaching
to the knee.

He was a man who took himself very seriously.  There was an air of pomposity and arrogant importance
about him which--considering who and what he was--would have been entertaining to any observer
gifted with a sense of humour.

'Yes,' replied Owen at last.  'I can do a little of that sort of work, although of course I
don't profess to be able to do it as well or as quickly as a man who does nothing else.'

'Oh, no, of course not, but I think you could manage this all right. It's that drawing-room
at the 'Cave'.  Mr Sweater's been speaking to me about it.  It seems that when he was over
in Paris some time since he saw a room that took his fancy.  The walls and ceiling was not
papered, but painted: you know what I mean; sort of panelled out, and decorated with stencils
and hand painting.  This 'ere's a photer of it: it's done in a sort of JAPANESE fashion.'

He handed the photograph to Owen as he spoke.  It represented a room, the walls and ceiling
of which were decorated in a Moorish style.

'At first Mr Sweater thought of getting a firm from London to do it, but 'e gave up the idear
on account of the expense; but if you can do it so that it doesn't cost too much, I think I
can persuade 'im to go in for it.  But if it's goin' to cost a lot it won't come off at all.
'E'll just 'ave a frieze put up and 'ave the room papered in the ordinary way.'

This was not true: Rushton said it in case Owen might want to be paid extra wages while doing
the work.  The truth was that Sweater was going to have the room decorated in any case, and
intended to get a London firm to do it.  He had consented rather unwillingly to let Rushton
& Co. submit him an estimate, because he thought they would not be able to do the work satisfactorily.

Owen examined the photograph closely.

'Could you do anything like that in that room?'

'Yes, I think so,' replied Owen.

'Well, you know, I don't want you to start on the job and not be able to finish it.  Can you
do it or not?'

Rushton felt sure that Owen could do it, and was very desirous that he should undertake it,
but he did not want him to know that.  He wished to convey the impression that he was almost
indifferent whether Owen did the work or not.  In fact, he wished to seem to be conferring
a favour upon him by procuring him such a nice job as this.

'I'll tell you what I CAN do,' Owen replied.  'I can make you a watercolour sketch--a design--and
if you think it good enough, of course, I can reproduce it on the ceiling and the walls, and
I can let you know, within a little, how long it will take.'

Rushton appeared to reflect.  Owen stood examining the photograph and began to feel an intense
desire to do the work.

Rushton shook his head dubiously.

'If I let you spend a lot of time over the sketches and then Mr Sweater does not approve of
your design, where do I come in?'

'Well, suppose we put it like this: I'll draw the design at home in the evenings--in my own
time.  If it's accepted, I'll charge you for the time I've spent upon it.  If it's not suitable,
I won't charge the time at all.'

Rushton brightened up considerably.  'All right.  You can do so,' he said with an affectation
of good nature, 'but you mustn't pile it on too thick, in any case, you know, because, as I
said before, 'e don't want to spend too much money on it.  In fact, if it's going to cost a
great deal 'e simply won't 'ave it done at all.'

Rushton knew Owen well enough to be sure that no consideration of time or pains would prevent
him from putting the very best that was in him into this work.  He knew that if the man did
the room at all there was no likelihood of his scamping it for the sake of getting it done
quickly; and for that matter Rushton did not wish him to hurry over it. All that he wanted
to do was to impress upon Owen from the very first that he must not charge too much time. 
Any profit that it was possible to make out of the work, Rushton meant to secure for himself.
He was a smart man, this Rushton, he possessed the ideal character: the kind of character that
is necessary for any man who wishes to succeed in business--to get on in life.  In other words,
his disposition was very similar to that of a pig--he was intensely selfish.

No one had any right to condemn him for this, because all who live under the present system
practise selfishness, more or less.  We must be selfish: the System demands it.  We must be
selfish or we shall be hungry and ragged and finally die in the gutter.  The more selfish we
are the better off we shall be.  In the 'Battle of Life' only the selfish and cunning are able
to survive: all others are beaten down and trampled under foot.  No one can justly be blamed
for acting selfishly--it is a matter of self-preservation--we must either injure or be injured.
It is the system that deserves to be blamed. What those who wish to perpetuate the system deserve
is another question.

'When do you think you'll have the drawings ready?' inquired Rushton. 'Can you get them done
tonight?'

'I'm afraid not,' replied Owen, feeling inclined to laugh at the absurdity of the question.
'It will need a little thinking about.'

'When can you have them ready then?  This is Monday.  Wednesday morning?'

Owen hesitated.

'We don't want to keep 'im waiting too long, you know, or 'e may give up the idear altogether.'

'Well, sat Friday morning, then,' said Owen, resolving that he would stay up all night if necessary
to get it done.

Rushton shook his head.

'Can't you get it done before that?  I'm afraid that if we keeps 'im waiting all that time
we may lose the job altogether.'

'I can't get them done any quicker in my spare time,' returned Owen, flushing.  'If you like
to let me stay home tomorrow and charge the time the same as if I had gone to work at the house,
I could go to my ordinary work on Wednesday and let you have the drawings on Thursday morning.'

'Oh, all right,' said Rushton as he returned to the perusal of his letters.

That night, long after his wife and Frankie were asleep, Owen worked in the sitting-room, searching
through old numbers of the Decorators' Journal and through the illustrations in other books
of designs for examples of Moorish work, and making rough sketches in pencil.

He did not attempt to finish anything yet: it was necessary to think first; but he roughed
out the general plan, and when at last he did go to bed he could not sleep for a long time.
He almost fancied he was in the drawing-room at the 'Cave'.  First of all it would be necessary
to take down the ugly plaster centre flower with its crevices all filled up with old whitewash.
The cornice was all right; it was fortunately a very simple one, with a deep cove and without
many enrichments.  Then, when the walls and the ceiling had been properly prepared, the ornamentation
would be proceeded with.  The walls, divided into panels and arches containing painted designs
and lattice-work; the panels of the door decorated in a similar manner. The mouldings of the
door and window frames picked out with colours and gold so as to be in character with the other
work; the cove of the cornice, a dull yellow with a bold ornament in colour--gold was not advisable
in the hollow because of the unequal distribution of the light, but some of the smaller mouldings
of the cornice should be gold.  On the ceiling there would be one large panel covered with
an appropriate design in gold and colours and surrounded by a wide margin or border.  To separate
this margin from the centre panel there would be a narrow border, and another border--but wider--round
the outer edge of the margin, where the ceiling met the cornice.  Both these borders and the
margin would be covered with ornamentation in colour and gold.  Great care would be necessary
when deciding what parts were to be gilded because--whilst large masses of gilding are apt
to look garish and in bad taste--a lot of fine gold lines are ineffective, especially on a
flat surface, where they do not always catch the light.  Process by process he traced the work,
and saw it advancing stage by stage until, finally, the large apartment was transformed and
glorified.  And then in the midst of the pleasure he experienced in the planning of the work
there came the fear that perhaps they would not have it done at all.

The question, what personal advantage would he gain never once occurred to Owen.  He simply
wanted to do the work; and he saw so fully occupied with thinking and planning how it was to
be done that the question of profit was crowded out.

But although this question of what profit could be made out of the work never occurred to Owen,
it would in due course by fully considered by Mr Rushton.  In fact, it was the only thing about
the work that Mr Rushton would think of at all: how much money could be made out of it. This
is what is meant by the oft-quoted saying, 'The men work with their hands--the master works
with his brains.'

Chapter 12

The Letting of the Room

It will be remembered that when the men separated, Owen going to the office to see Rushton,
and the others on their several ways, Easton and Slyme went together.

During the day Easton had found an opportunity of speaking to him about the bedroom.  Slyme
was about to leave the place where he was at present lodging, and he told Easton that although
he had almost decided on another place he would take a look at the room.  At Easton's suggestion
they arranged that Slyme was to accompany him home that night.  As the former remarked, Slyme
could come to see the place, and if he didn't like it as well as the other he was thinking
of taking, there was no harm done.

Ruth had contrived to furnish the room.  Some of the things she had obtained on credit from
a second-hand furniture dealer.  Exactly how she had managed, Easton did not know, but it was done.

'This is the house,' said Easton.  As they passed through, the gate creaked loudly on its hinges
and then closed of itself rather noisily.

Ruth had just been putting the child to sleep and she stood up as they came in, hastily fastening
the bodice of her dress as she did so.

'I've brought a gentleman to see you,' said Easton.

Although she knew that he was looking out for someone for the room, Ruth had not expected him
to bring anyone home in this sudden manner, and she could not help wishing that he had told
her beforehand of his intention.  It being Monday, she had been very busy all day and she was
conscious that she was rather untidy in her appearance.  Her long brown hair was twisted loosely
into a coil behind her head.  She blushed in an embarrassed way as the young man stared at her.

Easton introduced Slyme by name and they shook hands; and then at Ruth's suggestion Easton
took a light to show him the room, and while they were gone Ruth hurriedly tidied her hair
and dress.

When they came down again Slyme said he thought the room would suit him very well.  What were
the terms?

Did he wish to take the room only--just to lodge? inquired Ruth, or would he prefer to board
as well?

Slyme intimated that he desired the latter arrangement.

In that case she thought twelve shillings a week would be fair.  She believed that was about
the usual amount.  Of course that would include washing, and if his clothes needed a little
mending she would do it for him.

Slyme expressed himself satisfied with these terms, which were as Ruth had said--about the
usual ones.  He would take the room, but he was not leaving his present lodgings until Saturday.
It was therefore agreed that he was to bring his box on Saturday evening.

When he had gone, Easton and Ruth stood looking at each other in silence.  Ever since this
plan of letting the room first occurred to them they had been very anxious to accomplish it;
and yet, now that it was done, they felt dissatisfied and unhappy, as if they had suddenly
experienced some irreparable misfortune.  In that moment they remembered nothing of the darker
side of their life together.  The hard times and the privations were far off and seemed insignificant
beside the fact that this stranger was for the future to share their home.  To Ruth especially
it seemed that the happiness of the past twelve months had suddenly come to an end.  She shrank
with involuntary aversion and apprehension from the picture that rose before her of the future
in which this intruder appeared the most prominent figure, dominating everything and interfering
with every detail of their home life.  Of course they had known all this before, but somehow
it had never seemed so objectionable as it did now, and as Easton thought of it he was filled
an unreasonable resentment against Slyme, as if the latter had forced himself upon them against
their will.

'Damn him!' he thought.  'I wish I'd never brought him here at all!'

Ruth did not appear to him to be very happy about it either.

'Well?' he said at last.  'What do you think of him?'

'Oh, he'll be all right, I suppose.'

'For my part, I wish he wasn't coming,' Easton continued.

'That's just what I was thinking,' replied Ruth dejectedly.  'I don't like him at all.  I seemed
to turn against him directly he came in the door.'

'I've a good mind to back out of it, somehow, tomorrow,' exclaimed Easton after another silence.
'I could tell him we've unexpectedly got some friends coming to stay with us.'

'Yes,' said Ruth eagerly.  'It would be easy enough to make some excuse or other.'

As this way of escape presented itself she felt as if a weight had been lifted from her mind,
but almost in the same instant she remembered the reasons which had at first led them to think
of letting the room, and she added, disconsolately:

'It's foolish for us to go on like this, dear.  We must let the room and it might just as well
be him as anyone else.  We must make the best of it, that's all.'

Easton stood with his back to the fire, staring gloomily at her.

'Yes, I suppose that's the right way to look at it,' he replied at length.  'If we can't stand
it, we'll give up the house and take a couple of rooms, or a small flat--if we can get one.'

Ruth agreed, although neither alternative was very inviting.  The unwelcome alteration in their
circumstances was after all not altogether without its compensations, because from the moment
of arriving at this decision their love for each other seemed to be renewed and intensified.
They remembered with acute regret that hitherto they had not always fully appreciated the happiness
of that exclusive companionship of which there now remained to them but one week more.  For
once the present was esteemed at its proper value, being invested with some of the glamour
which almost always envelops the past.

Chapter 13

Penal Servitude and Death

On Tuesday--the day after his interview with Rushton--Owen remained at home working at the
drawings.  He did not get them finished, but they were so far advanced that he thought he would
be able to complete them after tea on Wednesday evening.  He did not go to work until after
breakfast on Wednesday and his continued absence served to confirm the opinion of the other
workmen that he had been discharged. This belief was further strengthened by the fact that
a new hand had been sent to the house by Hunter, who came himself also at about a quarter past
seven and very nearly caught Philpot in the act of smoking.

During breakfast, Philpot, addressing Crass and referring to Hunter, inquired anxiously:

''Ow's 'is temper this mornin', Bob?'

'As mild as milk,' replied Crass.  'You'd think butter wouldn't melt in 'is mouth.'

'Seemed quite pleased with 'isself, didn't 'e?' said Harlow.

'Yes,' remarked Newman.  ''E said good morning to me!'

'So 'e did to me!' said Easton.  ''E come inter the drorin'-room an' 'e ses, "Oh, you're in
'ere are yer, Easton," 'e ses--just like that, quite affable like.  So I ses, "Yes, sir." 
"Well," 'e ses, "get it slobbered over as quick as you can," 'e ses, "'cos we ain't got much
for this job: don't spend a lot of time puttying up.  Just smear it over an' let it go!"'

''E certinly seemed very pleased about something,' said Harlow.  'I thought prap's there was
a undertaking job in: one o' them generally puts 'im in a good humour.'

'I believe that nothing would please 'im so much as to see a epidemic break out,' remarked
Philpot.  'Small-pox, Hinfluenza, Cholery morbus, or anything like that.'

'Yes: don't you remember 'ow good-tempered 'e was last summer when there was such a lot of
Scarlet Fever about?' observed Harlow.

'Yes,' said Crass with a chuckle.  'I recollect we 'ad six children's funerals to do in one
week.  Ole Misery was as pleased as Punch, because of course as a rule there ain't many boxin'-up
jobs in the summer.  It's in winter as hundertakers reaps their 'arvest.'

'We ain't 'ad very many this winter, though, so far,' said Harlow.

'Not so many as usual,' admitted Crass, 'but still, we can't grumble: we've 'ad one nearly
every week since the beginning of October. That's not so bad, you know.'

Crass took a lively interest in the undertaking department of Rushton & Co.'s business.  He
always had the job of polishing or varnishing the coffin and assisting to take it home and
to 'lift in' the corpse, besides acting as one of the bearers at the funeral.  This work was
more highly paid for than painting.

'But I don't think there's no funeral job in,' added Crass after a pause.  'I think it's because
'e's glad to see the end of Owen, if yeh ask me.'

'Praps that 'as got something to do with it,' said Harlow.  'But all the same I don't call
that a proper way to treat anyone--givin' a man the push in that way just because 'e 'appened
to 'ave a spite against 'im.'

'It's wot I call a bl--dy shame!' cried Philpot.  'Owen's a chap wots always ready to do a
good turn to anybody, and 'e knows 'is work, although 'e is a bit of a nuisance sometimes,
I must admit, when 'e gets on about Socialism.'

'I suppose Misery didn't say nothin' about 'im this mornin'?' inquired Easton.

'No,' replied Crass, and added: 'I only 'ope Owen don't think as I never said anything against
'im.  'E looked at me very funny that night after Nimrod went away.  Owen needn't think nothing
like that about ME, because I'm a chap like this--if I couldn't do nobody no good, I wouldn't
never do 'em no 'arm!'

At this some of the others furtively exchanged significant glances, and Harlow began to smile,
but no one said anything.

Philpot, noticing that the newcomer had not helped himself to any tea, called Bert's attention
to the fact and the boy filled Owen's cup and passed it over to the new hand.

Their conjectures regarding the cause of Hunter's good humour were all wrong.  As the reader
knows, Owen had not been discharged at all, and there was nobody dead.  The real reason was
that, having decided to take on another man, Hunter had experienced no difficulty in getting
one at the same reduced rate as that which Newman was working for, there being such numbers
of men out of employment.  Hitherto the usual rate of pay in Mugsborough had been sevenpence
an hour for skilled painters.  The reader will remember that Newman consented to accept a job
at sixpence halfpenny.  So far none of the other workmen knew that Newman was working under
price: he had told no one, not feeling sure whether he was the only one or not.  The man whom
Hunter had taken on that morning also decided in his mind that he would keep his own counsel
concerning what pay he was to receive, until he found out what the others were getting.

Just before half past eight Owen arrived and was immediately assailed with questions as to
what had transpired at the office.  Crass listened with ill-concealed chagrin to Owen's account,
but most of the others were genuinely pleased.

'But what a way to speak to anybody!' observed Harlow, referring to Hunter's manner on the
previous Monday night.

'You know, I reckon if ole Misery 'ad four legs, 'e'd make a very good pig,' said Philpot,
solemnly, 'and you can't expect nothin' from a pig but a grunt.'

During the morning, as Easton and Owen were working together in the drawing-room, the former
remarked:

'Did I tell you I had a room I wanted to let, Frank?'

'Yes, I think you did.'

'Well, I've let it to Slyme.  I think he seems a very decent sort of chap, don't you?'

'Yes, I suppose he is,' replied Owen, hesitatingly.  'I know nothing against him.'

'Of course, we'd rather 'ave the 'ouse to ourselves if we could afford it, but work is so scarce
lately.  I've been figuring out exactly what my money has averaged for the last twelve months
and how much a week do you think it comes to?'

'God only knows,' said Owen.  'How much?'

'About eighteen bob.'

'So you see we had to do something,' continued Easton; 'and I reckon we're lucky to get a respectable
sort of chap like Slyme, religious and teetotal and all that, you know.  Don't you think so?'

'Yes, I suppose you are,' said Owen, who, although he intensely disliked Slyme, knew nothing
definite against him.

They worked in silence for some time, and then Owen said:

'At the present time there are thousands of people so badly off that, compared with them, WE
are RICH.  Their sufferings are so great that compared with them, we may be said to be living
in luxury.  You know that, don't you?'

'Yes, that's true enough, mate.  We really ought to be very thankful: we ought to consider
ourselves lucky to 'ave a inside job like this when there's such a lot of chaps walkin' about
doin' nothing.'

'Yes,' said Owen: 'we're lucky!  Although we're in a condition of abject, miserable poverty
we must consider ourselves lucky that we're not actually starving.'

Owen was painting the door; Easton was doing the skirting.  This work caused no noise, so they
were able to converse without difficulty.

'Do you think it's right for us to tamely make up our minds to live for the rest of our lives
under such conditions as that?'

'No; certainly not,' replied Easton; 'but things are sure to get better presently.  Trade hasn't
always been as bad as it is now.  Why, you can remember as well as I can a few years ago there
was so much work that we was putting in fourteen and sixteen hours a day.  I used to be so
done up by the end of the week that I used to stay in bed nearly all day on Sunday.'

'But don't you think it's worth while trying to find out whether it's possible to so arrange
things that we may be able to live like civilized human beings without being alternately worked
to death or starved?'

'I don't see how we're goin' to alter things,' answered Easton.  'At the present time, from
what I hear, work is scarce everywhere.  WE can't MAKE work, can we?'

'Do you think, then, that the affairs of the world are something like the wind or the weather--altogether
beyond our control?  And that if they're bad we can do nothing but just sit down and wait for
them to get better?'

'Well, I don't see 'ow we can odds it.  If the people wot's got the money won't spend it, the
likes of me and you can't make 'em, can we?'

Owen looked curiously at Easton.

'I suppose you're about twenty-six now,' he said.  'That means that you have about another
thirty years to live.  Of course, if you had proper food and clothes and hadn't to work more
than a reasonable number of hours every day, there is no natural reason why you should not
live for another fifty or sixty years: but we'll say thirty.  Do you mean to say that you are
able to contemplate with indifference the prospect of living for another thirty years under
such conditions as those we endure at present?'

Easton made no reply.

'If you were to commit some serious breach of the law, and were sentenced next week to ten
years' penal servitude, you'd probably think your fate a very pitiable one: yet you appear
to submit quite cheerfully to this other sentence, which is--that you shall die a premature
death after you have done another thirty years' hard labour.'

Easton continued painting the skirting.

'When there's no work,' Owen went on, taking another dip of paint as he spoke and starting
on one of the lower panels of the door, 'when there's no work, you will either starve or get
into debt.  When--as at present--there is a little work, you will live in a state of semi-starvation.
When times are what you call "good", you will work for twelve or fourteen hours a day and--if
you're VERY lucky--occasionally all night.  The extra money you then earn will go to pay your
debts so that you may be able to get credit again when there's no work.'

Easton put some putty in a crack in the skirting.

'In consequence of living in this manner, you will die at least twenty years sooner than is
natural, or, should you have an unusually strong constitution and live after you cease to be
able to work, you will be put into a kind of jail and treated like a criminal for the remainder
of your life.'

Having faced up the cracks, Easton resumed the painting of the skirting.

'If it were proposed to make a law that all working men and women were to be put to death--smothered,
or hung, or poisoned, or put into a lethal chamber--as soon as they reached the age of fifty
years, there is not the slightest doubt that you would join in the uproar of protest that would
ensue.  Yet you submit tamely to have your life shortened by slow starvation, overwork, lack
of proper boots and clothing, and though having often to turn out and go to work when you are
so ill that you ought to be in bed receiving medical care.'

Easton made no reply: he knew that all this was true, but he was not without a large share
of the false pride which prompts us to hide our poverty and to pretend that we are much better
off than we really are. He was at that moment wearing the pair of second-hand boots that Ruth
had bought for him, but he had told Harlow--who had passed some remark about them--that he
had had them for years, wearing them only for best. He felt very resentful as he listened to
the other's talk, and Owen perceived it, but nevertheless he continued:

'Unless the present system is altered, that is all we have to look forward to; and yet you're
one of the upholders of the present system--you help to perpetuate it!'

''Ow do I help to perpetuate it?' demanded Easton.

'By not trying to find out how to end it--by not helping those who are trying to bring a better
state of things into existence.  Even if you are indifferent to your own fate--as you seem
to be--you have no right to be indifferent to that of the child for whose existence in this
world you are responsible.  Every man who is not helping to bring about a better state of affairs
for the future is helping to perpetuate the present misery, and is therefore the enemy of his
own children. There is no such thing as being natural: we must either help or hinder.'

As Owen opened the door to paint its edge, Bert came along the passage.

'Look out!' he cried, 'Misery's comin' up the road.  'E'll be 'ere in a minit.'

It was not often that Easton was glad to hear of the approach of Nimrod, but on this occasion
he heard Bert's message with a sigh of relief.

'I say,' added the boy in a whisper to Owen, 'if it comes orf--I mean if you gets the job to
do this room--will you ask to 'ave me along of you?'

'Yes, all right, sonny,' replied Owen, and Bert went off to warn the others.

'Unaware that he had been observed, Nimrod sneaked stealthily into the house and began softly
crawling about from room to room, peeping around corners and squinting through the cracks of
doors, and looking through keyholes.  He was almost pleased to see that everybody was very
hard at work, but on going into Newman's room Misery was not satisfied with the progress made
since his last visit.  The fact was that Newman had been forgetting himself again this morning.
He had been taking a little pains with the work, doing it something like properly, instead
of scamping and rushing it in the usual way.  The result was that he had not done enough.

'You know, Newman, this kind of thing won't do!' Nimrod howled.  'You must get over a bit more
than this or you won't suit me!  If you can't move yourself a bit quicker I shall 'ave to get
someone else.  You've been in this room since seven o'clock this morning and it's dam near
time you was out of it!'

Newman muttered something about being nearly finished now, and Hunter ascended to the next
landing--the attics, where the cheap man--Sawkins, the labourer--was at work.  Harlow had been
taken away from the attics to go on with some of the better work, so Sawkins was now working
alone.  He had been slogging into it like a Trojan and had done quite a lot.  He had painted
not only the sashes of the window, but also a large part of the glass, and when doing the skirting
he had included part of the floor, sometimes an inch, sometimes half an inch.

The paint was of a dark drab colour and the surface of the newly painted doors bore a strong
resemblance to corduroy cloth, and from the bottom corners of nearly every panel there was
trickling down a large tear, as if the doors were weeping for the degenerate condition of the
decorative arts.  But these tears caused to throb of pity in the bosom of Misery: neither did
the corduroy-like surface of the work grate upon his feelings.  He perceived them not.  He
saw only that there was a Lot of Work done and his soul was filled with rapture as he reflected
that the man who had accomplished all this was paid only fivepence an hour. At the same time
it would never do to let Sawkins know that he was satisfied with the progress made, so he said:

'I don't want you to stand too much over this up 'ere, you know, Sawkins.  Just mop it over
anyhow, and get away from it as quick as you can.'

'All right, sir,' replied Sawkins, wiping the sweat from his brow as Misery began crawling
downstairs again.

'Where's Harlow go to, then?' he demanded of Philpot.  ''E wasn't 'ere just now, when I came up.'

''E's gorn downstairs, sir, out the back,' replied Joe, jerking his thumb over his shoulder
and winking at Hunter.  ''E'll be back in 'arf a mo.'  And indeed at that moment Harlow was
just coming upstairs again.

''Ere, we can't allow this kind of thing in workin' hours, you know.' Hunter bellowed.  'There's
plenty of time for that in the dinner hour!'

Nimrod now went down to the drawing-room, which Easton and Owen had been painting.  He stood
here deep in thought for some time, mentally comparing the quantity of work done by the two
men in this room with that done by Sawkins in the attics.  Misery was not a painter himself:
he was a carpenter, and he thought but little of the difference in the quality of the work:
to him it was all about the same: just plain painting.

'I believe it would pay us a great deal better,' he thought to himself, 'if we could get hold
of a few more lightweights like Sawkins.'  And with his mind filled with this reflection he
shortly afterwards sneaked stealthily from the house.

Chapter 14

Three Children. The Wages of Intelligence

Owen spent the greater part of the dinner hour by himself in the drawing-room making pencil
sketches in his pocket-book and taking measurements.  In the evening after leaving off, instead
of going straight home as usual he went round to the Free Library to see if he could find anything
concerning Moorish decorative work in any of the books there.  Although it was only a small
and ill-equipped institution he was rewarded by the discovery of illustrations of several examples
of which he made sketches.  After about an hour spent this way, as he was proceeding homewards
he observed two children--a boy and a girl--whose appearance seemed familiar.  They were standing
at the window of a sweetstuff shop examining the wares exposed therein.  As Owen came up the
children turned round and the recognized each other simultaneously.  They were Charley and
Elsie Linden.  Owen spoke to them as he drew near and the boy appealed to him for his opinion
concerning a dispute they had been having.

'I say, mister.  Which do you think is the best: a fardensworth of everlasting stickjaw torfee,
or a prize packet?'

'I'd rather have a prize packet,' replied Owen, unhesitatingly.

'There!  I told you so!' cried Elsie, triumphantly.

'Well, I don't care.  I'd sooner 'ave the torfee,' said Charley, doggedly.

'Why, can't you agree which of the two to buy?'

'Oh no, it's not that,' replied Elsie.  'We was only just SUPPOSING what we'd buy if we 'ad
a fardin; but we're not really goin' to buy nothing, because we ain't got no money.'

'Oh, I see,' said Owen.  'But I think I have some money,' and putting his hand into his pocket
he produced two halfpennies and gave one to each of the children, who immediately went in to
buy the toffee and the prize packet, and when they came out he walked along with them, as they
were going in the same direction as he was: indeed, they would have to pass by his house.

'Has your grandfather got anything to do yet?' he inquired as they went along.

'No.  'E's still walkin' about, mister,' replied Charley.

When they reached Owen's door he invited them to come up to see the kitten, which they had
been inquiring about on the way.  Frankie was delighted with these two visitors, and whilst
they were eating some home-made cakes that Nora gave them, he entertained them by displaying
the contents of his toy box, and the antics of the kitten, which was the best toy of all, for
it invented new games all the time: acrobatic performances on the rails of chairs; curtain
climbing; running slides up and down the oilcloth; hiding and peeping round corners and under
the sofa.  The kitten cut so many comical capers, and in a little while the children began
to create such an uproar, that Nora had to interfere lest the people in the flat underneath
should be annoyed.

However, Elsie and Charley were not able to stay very long, because their mother would be anxious
about them, but they promised to come again some other day to play with Frankie.

'I'm going to 'ave a prize next Sunday at our Sunday School,' said Elsie as they were leaving.

'What are you going to get it for?' asked Nora.

''Cause I learned my text properly.  I had to learn the whole of the first chapter of Matthew
by heart and I never made one single mistake! So teacher said she'd give me a nice book next
Sunday.'

'I 'ad one too, the other week, about six months ago, didn't I, Elsie?' said Charley.

'Yes,' replied Elsie and added: 'Do they give prizes at your Sunday School, Frankie?'

'I don't go to Sunday School.'

'Ain't you never been?' said Charley in a tone of surprise.

'No,' replied Frankie.  'Dad says I have quite enough of school all the week.'

'You ought to come to ours, man!' urged Charley.  'It's not like being in school at all!  And
we 'as a treat in the summer, and prizes and sometimes a magic lantern 'tainment.  It ain't
'arf all right, I can tell you.'

Frankie looked inquiringly at his mother.

'Might I go, Mum?'

'Yes, if you like, dear.'

'But I don't know the way.'

'Oh, it's not far from 'ere,' cried Charley.  'We 'as to pass by your 'ouse when we're goin',
so I'll call for you on Sunday if you like.'

'It's only just round in Duke Street; you know, the "Shining Light Chapel",' said Elsie.  'It
commences at three o'clock.'

'All right,' said Nora.  'I'll have Frankie ready at a quarter to three.  But now you must
run home as fast as you can.  Did you like those cakes?'

'Yes, thank you very much,' answered Elsie.

'Not 'arf!' said Charley.

'Does your mother make cakes for you sometimes?'

'She used to, but she's too busy now, making blouses and one thing and another,' Elsie answered.

'I suppose she hasn't much time for cooking,' said Nora, 'so I've wrapped up some more of those
cakes in this parcel for you to take home for tomorrow.  I think you can manage to carry it
all right, can't you, Charley?'

'I think I'd better carry it myself,' said Elsie.  'Charley's SO careless, he's sure to lose
some of them.'

'I ain't no more careless than you are,' cried Charley, indignantly. 'What about the time you
dropped the quarter of butter you was sent for in the mud?'

'That wasn't carelessness: that was an accident, and it wasn't butter at all: it was margarine,
so there!'

Eventually it was arranged that they were to carry the parcel in turns, Elsie to have first
innings.  Frankie went downstairs to the front door with them to see them off, and as they
went down the street he shouted after them:

'Mind you remember, next Sunday!'

'All right,' Charley shouted back.  'We shan't forget.'

On Thursday Owen stayed at home until after breakfast to finish the designs which he had promised
to have ready that morning.

When he took them to the office at nine o'clock, the hour at which he had arranged to meet
Rushton, the latter had not yet arrived, and he did not put in an appearance until half an
hour later.  Like the majority of people who do brain work, he needed a great deal more rest
than those who do only mere physical labour.

'Oh, you've brought them sketches, I suppose,' he remarked in a surly tone as he came in. 
'You know, there was no need for you to wait: you could 'ave left 'em 'ere and gone on to your
job.'

He sat down at his desk and looked carelessly at the drawing that Owen handed to him.  It was
on a sheet of paper about twenty-four by eighteen inches.  The design was drawn with pencil
and one half of it was coloured.

'That's for the ceiling,' said Owen.  'I hadn't time to colour all of it.'

With an affectation of indifference, Rushton laid the drawing down and took the other which
Owen handed to him.

'This is for the large wall.  The same design would be adapted for the other walls; and this
one shows the door and the panels under the window.'

Rushton expressed no opinion about the merits of the drawings.  He examined them carelessly
one after the other, and then, laying them down, he inquired:

'How long would it take you to do this work--if we get the job?'

'About three weeks: say 150 hours.  That is--the decorative work only. Of course, the walls
and ceiling would have to be painted first: they will need three coats of white.'

Rushton scribbled a note on a piece of paper.

'Well,' he said, after a pause, 'you can leave these 'ere and I'll see Mr Sweater about it
and tell 'im what it will cost, and if he decides to have it done I'll let you know.'

He put the drawings aside with the air of a man who has other matters to attend to, and began
to open one of the several letters that were on his desk.  He meant this as an intimation that
the audience was at an end and that he desired the 'hand' to retire from the presence. Owen
understood this, but he did not retire, because it was necessary to mention one or two things
which Rushton would have to allow for when preparing the estimate.

'Of course I should want some help,' he said.  'I should need a man occasionally, and the boy
most of the time.  Then there's the gold leaf--say, fifteen books.'

'Don't you think it would be possible to use gold paint?'

'I'm afraid not.'

'Is there anything else?' inquired Rushton as he finished writing down these items.

'I think that's all, except a few sheets of cartridge paper for stencils and working drawings.
The quantity of paint necessary for the decorative work will be very small.'

As soon as Owen was gone, Rushton took up the designs and examined them attentively.

'These are all right,' he muttered.  'Good enough for anywhere.  If he can paint anything like
as well as this on the walls and ceiling of the room, it will stand all the looking at that
anyone in this town is likely to give it.'

'Let's see,' he continued.  'He said three weeks, but he's so anxious to do the job that he's
most likely under-estimated the time; I'd better allow four weeks: that means about 200 hours:
200 hours at eight-pence: how much is that?  And say he has a painter to help him half the
time.  100 hours at sixpence-ha'penny.'

He consulted a ready reckoner that was on the desk.

'Time, £9.7.6.  Materials: fifteen books of gold, say a pound.  Then there's the cartridge
paper and the colours--say another pound, at the outside.  Boy's time?  Well, he gets no wages
as yet, so we needn't mention that at all.  Then there's the preparing of the room. Three coats
of white paint.  I wish Hunter was here to give me an idea what it will cost.'

As if in answer to his wish, Nimrod entered the office at that moment, and in reply to Rushton's
query said that to give the walls and ceiling three coats of paint would cost about three pounds
five for time and material.  Between them the two brain workers figured that fifteen pounds
would cover the entire cost of the work--painting and decorating.

'Well, I reckon we can charge Sweater forty-five pounds for it,' said Rushton.  'It isn't like
an ordinary job, you know.  If he gets a London firm to do it, it'll cost him double that,
if not more.'

Having arrived at this decision, Rushton rung up Sweater's Emporium on the telephone, and,
finding that Mr Sweater was there, he rolled up the designs and set out for that gentleman's
office.

The men work with their hands, and the masters work with their brains. What a dreadful calamity
it would be for the world and for mankind if all these brain workers were to go on strike.

Chapter 15

The Undeserving Persons and the Upper and Nether Millstones

Hunter had take on three more painters that morning.  Bundy and two labourers had commenced
the work of putting in the new drains; the carpenters were back again doing some extra work,
and there was also a plumber working on the house; so there was quite a little crowd in the
kitchen at dinner-time.  Crass had been waiting for a suitable opportunity to produce the newspaper
cutting which it will be remembered he showed to Easton on Monday morning, but he had waited
in vain, for there had been scarcely any 'political' talk at meal-times all the week, and it
was now Thursday.  As far as Owen was concerned, his thoughts were so occupied with the designs
for the drawing-room that he had no time for anything else, and most of the others were only
too willing to avoid a subject which frequently led to unpleasantness. As a rule Crass himself
had no liking for such discussion, but he was so confident of being able to 'flatten out' Owen
with the cutting from the Obscurer that he had several times tried to lead the conversation
into the desired channel, but so far without success.

During dinner--as they called it--various subjects were discussed. Harlow mentioned that he
had found traces of bugs in one of the bedrooms upstairs and this called forth a number of
anecdotes of those vermin and of houses infested by them.  Philpot remembered working in a
house over at Windley; the people who lived in it were very dirty and had very little furniture;
no bedsteads, the beds consisting of dilapidated mattresses and rags on the floor.  He declared
that these ragged mattresses used to wander about the rooms by themselves.  The house was so
full of fleas that if one placed a sheet of newspaper on the floor one could hear and see them
jumping on it.  In fact, directly one went into that house one was covered from head to foot
with fleas! During the few days he worked at that place, he lost several pounds in weight,
and of evenings as he walked homewards the children and people in the streets, observing his
ravaged countenance, thought he was suffering from some disease and used to get out of his
way when they saw him coming.

There were several other of these narratives, four or five men talking at the top of their
voices at the same time, each one telling a different story.  At first each story-teller addressed
himself to the company generally, but after a while, finding it impossible to make himself
heard, he would select some particular individual who seemed disposed to listen and tell him
the story.  It sometimes happened that in the middle of the tale the man to whom it was being
told would remember a somewhat similar adventure of his own, which he would immediately proceed
to relate without waiting for the other to finish, and each of them was generally so interested
in the gruesome details of his own story that he was unconscious of the fact that the other
was telling one at all.  In a contest of this kind the victory usually went to the man with
the loudest voice, but sometimes a man who had a weak voice, scored by repeating the same tale
several times until someone heard it.

Barrington, who seldom spoke and was an ideal listener, was appropriated by several men in
succession, who each told him a different yarn.  There was one man sitting on an up-ended pail
in the far corner of the room and it was evident from the movements of his lips that he also
was relating a story, although nobody knew what it was about or heard a single word of it,
for no one took the slightest notice of him...

When the uproar had subsided Harlow remembered the case of a family whose house got into such
a condition that the landlord had given them notice and the father had committed suicide because
the painters had come to turn 'em out of house and home.  There were a man, his wife and daughter--a
girl about seventeen--living in the house, and all three of 'em used to drink like hell.  As
for the woman, she COULD shift it and no mistake!  Several times a day she used to send the
girl with a jug to the pub at the corner.  When the old man was out, one could have anything
one liked to ask for from either of 'em for half a pint of beer, but for his part, said Harlow,
he could never fancy it.  They were both too ugly.

The finale of this tale was received with a burst of incredulous laughter by those who heard it.

'Do you 'ear what Harlow says, Bob?' Easton shouted to Crass.

'No.  What was it?'

''E ses 'e once 'ad a chance to 'ave something but 'e wouldn't take it on because it was too ugly!'

'If it 'ad bin me, I should 'ave shut me bl--y eyes,' cried Sawkins. 'I wouldn't pass it for
a trifle like that.'

'No,' said Crass amid laughter, 'and you can bet your life 'e didn't lose it neither, although
'e tries to make 'imself out to be so innocent.'

'I always though old Harlow was a bl--y liar,' remarked Bundy, 'but now we knows 'e is.'

Although everyone pretended to disbelieve him, Harlow stuck to his version of the story.

'It's not their face you want, you know,' added Bundy as he helped himself to some more tea.

'I know it wasn't my old woman's face that I was after last night,' observed Crass; and then
he proceeded amid roars of laughter to give a minutely detailed account of what had taken place
between himself and his wife after they had retired for the night.

This story reminded the man on the pail of a very strange dream he had had a few weeks previously:
'I dreamt I was walkin' along the top of a 'igh cliff or some sich place, and all of a sudden
the ground give way under me feet and I began to slip down and down and to save meself from
going over I made a grab at a tuft of grass as was growin' just within reach of me 'and.  And
then I thought that some feller was 'ittin me on the 'ead with a bl--y great stick, and tryin'
to make me let go of the tuft of grass.  And then I woke up to find my old woman shouting out
and punchin' me with 'er fists.  She said I was pullin' 'er 'air!'

While the room was in an uproar with the merriment induced by these stories, Crass rose from
his seat and crossed over to where his overcoat was hanging on a nail in the wall, and took
from the pocket a piece of card about eight inches by about four inches.  One side of it was
covered with printing, and as he returned to his seat Crass called upon the others to listen
while he read it aloud.  He said it was one of the best things he had ever seen: it had been
given to him by a bloke in the Cricketers the other night.

Crass was not a very good reader, but he was able to read this all right because he had read
it so often that he almost knew it by heart. It was entitled 'The Art of Flatulence', and it
consisted of a number of rules and definitions.  Shouts of laughter greeted the reading of
each paragraph, and when he had ended, the piece of dirty card was handed round for the benefit
of those who wished to read it for themselves.  Several of the men, however, when it was offered
to them, refused to take it, and with evident disgust suggested that it should be put into
the fire.  This view did not commend itself to Crass, who, after the others had finished with
it, put it back in the pocket of his coat.

Meanwhile, Bundy stood up to help himself to some more tea.  The cup he was drinking from had
a large piece broken out of one side and did not hold much, so he usually had to have three
or four helpings.

'Anyone else want any' he asked.

Several cups and jars were passed to him.  These vessels had been standing on the floor, and
the floor was very dirty and covered with dust, so before dipping them into the pail, Bundy--who
had been working at the drains all morning--wiped the bottoms of the jars upon his trousers,
on the same place where he was in the habit of wiping his hands when he happened to get some
dirt on them.  He filled the jars so full that as he held them by the rims and passed them
to their owners part of the contents slopped over and trickled through his fingers.  By the
time he had finished the floor was covered with little pools of tea.

'They say that Gord made everything for some useful purpose,' remarked Harlow, reverting to
the original subject, 'but I should like to know what the hell's the use of sich things as
bugs and fleas and the like.'

'To teach people to keep theirselves clean, of course,' said Slyme.

'That's a funny subject, ain't it?' continued Harlow, ignoring Slyme's answer.  'They say as
all diseases is caused by little insects.  If Gord 'adn't made no cancer germs or consumption
microbes there wouldn't be no cancer or consumption.'

'That's one of the proofs that there ISN'T an individual God,' said Owen.  'If we were to believe
that the universe and everything that lives was deliberately designed and created by God, then
we must also believe that He made his disease germs you are speaking of for the purpose of
torturing His other creatures.'

'You can't tell me a bloody yarn like that,' interposed Crass, roughly. 'There's a Ruler over
us, mate, and so you're likely to find out.'

'If Gord didn't create the world, 'ow did it come 'ere?' demanded Slyme.

'I know no more about that than you do,' replied Owen.  'That is--I know nothing.  The only
difference between us is that you THINK you know.  You think you know that God made the universe;
how long it took Him to do it; why He made it; how long it's been in existence and how it will
finally pass away.  You also imagine you know that we shall live after we're dead; where we
shall go, and the kind of existence we shall have.  In fact, in the excess of your "humility",
you think you know all about it.  But really you know no more of these things than any other
human being does; that is, you know NOTHING.'

'That's only YOUR opinion,' said Slyme.

'If we care to take the trouble to learn,' Owen went on, 'we can know a little of how the universe
has grown and changed; but of the beginning we know nothing.'

'That's just my opinion, matey,' observed Philpot.  'It's just a bloody mystery, and that's
all about it.'

'I don't pretend to 'ave no 'ead knowledge,' said Slyme, 'but 'ead knowledge won't save a man's
soul: it's 'EART knowledge as does that. I knows in my 'eart as my sins is all hunder the Blood,
and it's knowin' that, wot's given 'appiness and the peace which passes all understanding to
me ever since I've been a Christian.'

'Glory, glory, hallelujah!' shouted Bundy, and nearly everyone laughed.

'"Christian" is right,' sneered Owen.  'You've got some title to call yourself a Christian,
haven't you?  As for the happiness that passes all understanding, it certainly passes MY understanding
how you can be happy when you believe that millions of people are being tortured in Hell; and
it also passes my understanding why you are not ashamed of yourself for being happy under such
circumstances.'

'Ah, well, you'll find it all out when you come to die, mate,' replied Slyme in a threatening
tone.  'You'll think and talk different then!'

'That's just wot gets over ME,' observed Harlow.  'It don't  seem right that after living in
misery and poverty all our bloody lives, workin' and slavin' all the hours that Gord A'mighty
sends, that we're to be bloody well set fire and burned in 'ell for all eternity!  It don't
seem feasible to me, you know.'

'It's my belief,' said Philpot, profoundly, 'that when you're dead, you're done for.  That's
the end of you.'

'That's what I say,' remarked Easton.  'As for all this religious business, it's just a money-making
dodge.  It's the parson's trade, just the same as painting is ours, only there's no work attached
to it and the pay's a bloody sight better than ours is.'

'It's their livin', and a bloody good livin' too, if you ask me,' said Bundy.

'Yes,' said Harlow; 'they lives on the fat o' the land, and wears the best of everything, and
they does nothing for it but talk a lot of twaddle two or three times a week.  The rest of
the time they spend cadgin' money orf silly old women who thinks it's a sorter fire insurance.'

'It's an old sayin' and a true one,' chimed in the man on the upturned pail.  'Parsons and
publicans is the worst enemies the workin' man ever 'ad.  There may be SOME good 'uns, but
they're few and far between.'

'If I could only get a job like the Harchbishop of Canterbury,' said Philpot, solemnly, 'I'd
leave this firm.'

'So would I,' said Harlow, 'if I was the Harchbishop of Canterbury, I'd take my pot and brushes
down the office and shy 'em through the bloody winder and tell ole Misery to go to 'ell.'

'Religion is a thing that don't trouble ME much,' remarked Newman; 'and as for what happens
to you after death, it's a thing I believe in leavin' till you comes to it--there's no sense
in meetin' trouble 'arfway.  All the things they tells us may be true or they may not, but
it takes me all my time to look after THIS world.  I don't believe I've been to church more
than arf a dozen times since I've been married--that's over fifteen years ago now--and then
it's been when the kids 'ave been christened.  The old woman goes sometimes and of course the
young 'uns goes; you've got to tell 'em something or other, and they might as well learn what
they teaches at the Sunday School as anything else.'

A general murmur of approval greeted this.  It seemed to be the almost unanimous opinion, that,
whether it were true or not, 'religion' was a nice thing to teach children.

'I've not been even once since I was married,' said Harlow, 'and I sometimes wish to Christ
I 'adn't gorn then.'

'I don't see as it matters a dam wot a man believes,' said Philpot, 'as long as you don't do
no 'arm to nobody.  If you see a poor b--r wot's down on 'is luck, give 'im a 'elpin' 'and.
Even if you ain't got no money you can say a kind word.  If a man does 'is work and looks arter
'is 'ome and 'is young 'uns, and does a good turn to a fellow creature when 'e can, I reckon
'e stands as much chance of getting into 'eaven--if there IS sich a place--as some of there
'ere Bible-busters, whether 'e ever goes to church or chapel or not.'

These sentiments were echoed by everyone with the solitary exception of Slyme, who said that
Philpot would find out his mistake after he was dead, when he would have to stand before the
Great White Throne for judgement!

'And at the Last Day, when yer sees the moon turned inter Blood, you'll be cryin' hout for
the mountings and the rocks to fall on yer and 'ide yer from the wrath of the Lamb!'

The others laughed derisively.

'I'm a Bush Baptist meself,' remarked the man on the upturned pail. This individual, Dick Wantley
by name, was of what is usually termed a 'rugged' cast of countenance.  He reminded one strongly
of an ancient gargoyle, or a dragon.

Most of the hands had by now lit their pipes, but there were a few who preferred chewing their
tobacco.  As they smoked or chewed they expectorated upon the floor or into the fire.  Wantley
was one of those who preferred chewing and he had been spitting upon the floor to such an extent
that he was by this time partly surrounded by a kind of semicircular moat of dark brown spittle.

'I'm a Bush Baptist!' he shouted across the moat, 'and you all knows wot that is.'

This confession of faith caused a fresh outburst of hilarity, because of course everyone knew
what a Bush Baptist was.

'If 'evven's goin' to be full of sich b--r's as Hunter,' observed Eaton, 'I think I'd rather
go to the other place.'

'If ever ole Misery DOES get into 'eaven,' said Philpot, ''e won't stop there very long.  I
reckon 'e'll be chucked out of it before 'e's been there a week, because 'e's sure to start
pinchin' the jewels out of the other saints' crowns.'

'Well, if they won't 'ave 'im in 'eaven, I'm sure I don't know wot's to become of 'im,' said
Harlow with pretended concern, 'because I don't believe 'e'd be allowed into 'ell, now.'

'Why not?' demanded Bundy.  'I should think it's just the bloody place for sich b--r's as 'im.'

'So it used to be at one time o' day, but they've changed all that now. They've 'ad a revolution
down there: deposed the Devil, elected a parson as President, and started puttin' the fire out.'

'From what I hears of it,' continued Harlow when the laughter had ceased, ''ell is a bloody
fine place to live in just now.  There's underground railways and 'lectric trams, and at the
corner of nearly every street there's a sort of pub where you can buy ice-cream, lemon squash,
four ale, and American cold drinks; and you're allowed to sit in a refrigerator for two hours
for a tanner.'

Although they laughed and made fun of these things the reader must not think that they really
doubted the truth of the Christian religion, because--although they had all been brought up
by 'Christian' parents and had been 'educated' in 'Christian' schools--none of them knew enough
about Christianity to either really believe it or disbelieve it. The imposters who obtain a
comfortable living by pretending to be the ministers and disciples of the Workman of Nazareth
are too cunning to encourage their dupes to acquire anything approaching an intelligent understanding
of the subject.  They do not want people to know or understand anything: they want them to
have Faith--to believe without knowledge, understanding, or evidence.  For years Harlow and
his mates--when children--had been 'taught' 'Christianity' in day school, Sunday School and
in church or chapel, and now they knew practically nothing about it!  But they were 'Christians'
all the same.  They believed that the Bible was the word of God, but they didn't know where
it came from, how long it had been in existence, who wrote it, who translated it or how many
different versions there were. Most of them were almost totally unacquainted with the contents
of the book itself. But all the same, they believed it--after a fashion.

'But puttin' all jokes aside,' said Philpot, 'I can't believe there's sich a place as 'ell.
There may be some kind of punishment, but I don't believe it's a real fire.'

'Nor nobody else, what's got any sense,' replied Harlow, contemptuously.

'I believe as THIS world is 'ell,' said Crass, looking around with a philosophic expression.
This opinion was echoed by most of the others, although Slyme remained silent and Owen laughed.

'Wot the bloody 'ell are YOU laughin' at?' Crass demanded in an indignant tone.

'I was laughing because you said you think this world is hell.'

'Well, I don't see nothing to laugh at in that,' said Crass.

'So it IS a 'ell,' said Easton.  'There can't be anywheres much worse than this.'

''Ear, 'ear,' said the man behind the moat.

'What I was laughing at is this,' said Owen.  'The present system of managing the affairs of
the world is so bad and has produced such dreadful results that you are of the opinion that
the earth is a hell: and yet you are a Conservative!  You wish to preserve the present system--the
system which has made the world into a hell!'

'I thought we shouldn't get through the dinner hour without politics if Owen was 'ere,' growled
Bundy.  'Bloody sickenin' I call it.'

'Don't be 'ard on 'im,' said Philpot.  ''E's been very quiet for the last few days.'

'We'll 'ave to go through it today, though,' remarked Harlow despairingly.  'I can see it comin'.'

'I'M not goin' through it,' said Bundy, 'I'm orf!'  And he accordingly drank the remainder
of his tea, closed his empty dinner basket and, having placed it on the mantelshelf, made for
the door.

'I'll leave you to it,' he said as he went out.  The others laughed.

Crass, remembering the cutting from the Obscurer that he had in his pocket, was secretly very
pleased at the turn the conversation was taking.  He turned roughly on Owen:

'The other day, when we was talkin' about the cause of poverty, you contradicted everybody.
Everyone else was wrong!  But you yourself couldn't tell us what's the cause of poverty, could
you?'

'I think I could.'

'Oh, of course, you think you know,' sneered Crass, 'and of course you think your opinion's
right and everybody else's is wrong.'

'Yes,' replied Owen.

Several men expressed their abhorrence of this intolerant attitude of Owen's, but the latter
rejoined:

'Of course I think that my opinions are right and that everyone who differs from me is wrong.
If I didn't think their opinions were wrong I wouldn't differ from them.  If I didn't think
my own opinions right I wouldn't hold them.'

'But there's no need to keep on arguin' about it day after day,' said Crass.  'You've got your
opinion and I've got mine.  Let everyone enjoy his own opinion, I say.'

A murmur of approbation from the crowd greeted these sentiments; but Owen rejoined:

'But we can't both be right; if your opinions are right and mine are not, how am I to find
out the truth if we never talk about them?'

'Well, wot do you reckon is the cause of poverty, then?' demanded Easton.

'The present system--competition--capitalism.'

'It's all very well to talk like that,' snarled Crass, to whom this statement conveyed no meaning
whatever.  'But 'ow do you make it out?'

'Well, I put it like that for the sake of shortness,' replied Owen. 'Suppose some people were
living in a house--'

'More supposin'!' sneered Crass.

'And suppose they were always ill, and suppose that the house was badly built, the walls so
constructed that they drew and retained moisture, the roof broken and leaky, the drains defective,
the doors and windows ill-fitting and the rooms badly shaped and draughty.  If you were asked
to name, in a word, the cause of the ill-health of the people who lived there you would say--the
house.  All the tinkering in the world would not make that house fit to live in; the only thing
to do with it would be to pull it down and build another.  Well, we're all living in a house
called the Money System; and as a result most of us are suffering from a disease called poverty.
There's so much the matter with the present system that it's no good tinkering at it. Everything
about it is wrong and there's nothing about it that's right.  There's only one thing to be
done with it and that is to smash it up and have a different system altogether.  We must get
out of it.'

'It seems to me that that's just what you're trying to do,' remanded Harlow, sarcastically.
'You seem to be tryin' to get out of answering the question what Easton asked you.'

'Yes!' cried Crass, fiercely.  'Why don't you answer the bloody question?  Wot's the cause
of poverty?'

'What the 'ell's the matter with the present system?' demanded Sawkins.

'Ow's it goin' to be altered?' said Newman.

'Wot the bloody 'ell sort of a system do YOU think we ought to 'ave?' shouted the man behind
the moat.

'It can't never be altered,' said Philpot.  'Human nature's human nature and you can't get
away from it.'

'Never mind about human nature,' shouted Crass.  'Stick to the point. Wot's the cause of poverty?'

'Oh, b--r the cause of poverty!' said one of the new hands.  'I've 'ad enough of this bloody
row.'  And he stood up and prepared to go out of the room.

This individual had two patches on the seat of his trousers and the bottoms of the legs of
that garment were frayed and ragged.  He had been out of work for about six weeks previous
to having been taken on by Rushton & Co.  During most of that time he and his family had been
existing in a condition of semi-starvation on the earnings of his wife as a charwoman and on
the scraps of food she brought home from the houses where she worked.  But all the same, the
question of what is the cause of poverty had no interest for him.

'There are many causes,' answered Owen, 'but they are all part of and inseparable from the
system.  In order to do away with poverty we must destroy the causes: to do away with the causes
we must destroy the whole system.'

'What are the causes, then?'

'Well, money, for one thing.'

This extraordinary assertion was greeted with a roar of merriment, in the midst of which Philpot
was heard to say that to listen to Owen was as good as going to a circus.  Money was the cause
of poverty!

'I always thought it was the want of it!' said the man with the patches on the seat of his
trousers as he passed out of the door.

'Other things,' continued Owen, 'are private ownership of land, private ownership of railways,
tramways, gasworks, waterworks, private ownership of factories, and the other means of producing
the necessaries and comforts of life.  Competition in business--'

'But 'ow do you make it out?' demanded Crass, impatiently.

Owen hesitated.  To his mind the thing appeared very clear and simple. The causes of poverty
were so glaringly evident that he marvelled that any rational being should fail to perceive
them; but at the same time he found it very difficult to define them himself.  He could not
think of words that would convey his thoughts clearly to these others who seemed so hostile
and unwilling to understand, and who appeared to have made up their minds to oppose and reject
whatever he said.  They did not know what were the causes of poverty and apparently they did
not WANT to know.

'Well, I'll try to show you one of the causes,' he said nervously at last.

He picked up a piece of charred wood that had fallen from the fire and knelt down and began
to draw upon the floor.  Most of the others regarded him, with looks in which an indulgent,
contemptuous kind of interest mingled with an air of superiority and patronage.  There was
no doubt, they thought, that Owen was a clever sort of chap: his work proved that: but he was
certainly a little bit mad.

By this time Owen had drawn a circle about two feet in diameter. Inside he had drawn two squares,
one much larger than the other. These two squares he filled in solid black with the charcoal.

'Wot's it all about?' asked Crass with a sneer.

'Why, can't you see?' said Philpot with a wink.  ''E's goin' to do some conjurin'!  In a minit
'e'll make something pass out o' one o' them squares into the other and no one won't see 'ow
it's done.'

When he had finished drawing, Owen remained for a few minutes awkwardly silent, oppressed by
the anticipation of ridicule and a sense of his inability to put his thoughts into plain language.
He began to wish that he had not undertaken this task.  At last, with an effort, he began to
speak in a halting, nervous way:

                             .......
                          ...       ...
                        ..             ..
                       .       ###       .
                      .        ###        .
                     .                     .
                     .   ###############   .
                    .    ###############    .
                    .    ###############    .
                    .    ###############    .
                     .   ###############   .
                     .   ###############   .
                      .                   .
                       ..               ..
                         ...         ...
                            .........

'This circle--or rather the space inside the circle--is supposed to represent England.'

'Well, I never knowed it was round before,' jeered Crass.  'I've heard as the WORLD is round--'

'I never said it was the shape--I said it was supposed to REPRESENT England.'

'Oh, I see.  I thought we'd very soon begin supposin'.'

'The two black squares,' continued Owen, 'represent the people who live in the country.  The
small square represents a few thousand people. The large square stands for the remainder--about
forty millions--that is, the majority.'

'We ain't sich bloody fools as to think that the largest number is the minority,' interrupted
Crass.

'The greater number of the people represented by the large black square work for their living:
and in return for their labour they receive money: some more, some less than others.'

'You don't think they'd be sich bloody fools as to work for nothing, do you?' said Newman.

'I suppose you think they ought all to get the same wages!' cried Harlow.  'Do you think it's
right that a scavenger should get as much as a painter?'

'I'm not speaking about that at all,' replied Owen.  'I'm trying to show you what I think is
one of the causes of poverty.'

'Shut up, can't you, Harlow,' remonstrated Philpot, who began to feel interested.  'We can't
all talk at once.'

'I know we can't,' replied Harlow in an aggrieved tone: 'but 'e takes sich a 'ell of a time
to say wot 'e's got to say.  Nobody else can't get a word in edgeways.'

'In order that these people may live,' continued Owen, pointing to the large black square,
'it is first necessary that they shall have a PLACE to live in--'

'Well!  I should never a thought it!' exclaimed the man on the pail, pretending to be much
impressed.  The others laughed, and two or three of them went out of the room, contemptuously
remarking to each other in an audible undertone as they went:

'Bloody rot!'

'Wonder wot the bloody 'ell 'e thinks 'e is?  A sort of schoolmaster?'

Owen's nervousness increased as he continued:

'Now, they can't live in the air or in the sea.  These people are land animals, therefore they
must live on the land.'

'Wot do yer mean by animals?' demanded Slyme.

'A human bean ain't a animal!' said Crass indignantly.

'Yes, we are!' cried Harlow.  'Go into any chemist's shop you like and ask the bloke, and 'e'll
tell you--'

'Oh, blow that!' interrupted Philpot.  'Let's 'ear wot Owen's sayin'.'

'They must live on the land: and that's the beginning of the trouble; because--under the present
system--the majority of the people have really no right to be in the country at all!  Under
the present system the country belongs to a few--those who are here represented by this small
black square.  If it would pay them to do so, and if they felt so disposed, these few people
have a perfect right--under the present system--to order everyone else to clear out!

'But they don't do that, they allow the majority to remain in the land on one condition--that
is, they must pay rent to the few for the privilege of being permitted to live in the land
of their birth.  The amount of rent demanded by those who own this country is so large that,
in order to pay it, the greater number of the majority have often to deprive themselves and
their children, not only of the comforts, but even the necessaries of life.  In the case of
the working classes the rent absorbs at the lowest possible estimate, about one-third of their
total earnings, for it must be remembered that the rent is an expense that goes on all the
time, whether they are employed or not.  If they get into arrears when out of work, they have
to pay double when they get employment again.

'The majority work hard and live in poverty in order that the minority may live in luxury without
working at all, and as the majority are mostly fools, they not only agree to pass their lives
in incessant slavery and want, in order to pay this rent to those who own the country, but
they say it is quite right that they should have to do so, and are very grateful to the little
minority for allowing them to remain in the country at all.'

Owen paused, and immediately there arose a great clamour from his listeners.

'So it IS right, ain't it?' shouted Crass.  'If you 'ad a 'ouse and let it to someone, you'd
want your rent, wouldn't yer?'

'I suppose,' said Slyme with resentment, for he had some shares in a local building society,
'after a man's been careful, and scraping and saving and going without things he ought to 'ave
'ad all 'is life, and managed to buy a few 'ouses to support 'im in 'is old age--they ought
all to be took away from 'im?  Some people,' he added, 'ain't got common honesty.'

Nearly everyone had something to say in reprobation of the views suggested by Owen.  Harlow,
in a brief but powerful speech, bristling with numerous sanguinary references to the bottomless
pit, protested against any interference with the sacred rights of property.  Easton listened
with a puzzled expression, and Philpot's goggle eyes rolled horribly as he glared silently
at the circle and the two squares.

'By far the greatest part of the land,' said Owen when the row had ceased, 'is held by people
who have absolutely no moral right to it. Possession of much of it was obtained by means of
murder and theft perpetrated by the ancestors of the present holders.  In other cases, when
some king or prince wanted to get rid of a mistress of whom he had grown weary, he presented
a tract of our country to some 'nobleman' on condition that he would marry the female.  Vast
estates were also bestowed upon the remote ancestors of the present holders in return for real
or alleged services.  Listen to this,' he continued as he took a small newspaper cutting from
his pocket-book.

Crass looked at the piece of paper dolefully.  It reminded him of the one he had in his own
pocket, which he was beginning to fear that he would not have an opportunity of producing today
after all.

'Ballcartridge Rent Dat.

'The hundredth anniversary of the Battle of Ballcartridge occurred yesterday and in accordance
with custom the Duke of Ballcartridge handed to the authorities the little flag which he annually
presents to the State in virtue of his tenure of the vast tract of this country which was presented
to one of his ancestors--the first Duke--in addition to his salary, for his services at the
battle of Ballcartridge.

'The flag--which is the only rent the Duke has to pay for the great estate which brings him
in several hundreds of thousands of pounds per annum--is a small tricoloured one with a staff
surmounted by an eagle.

'The Duke of Blankmind also presents the State with a little coloured silk flag every year
in return for being allowed to retain possession of that part of England which was presented--in
addition to his salary--to one of His Grace's very remote ancestors, for his services at the
battle of Commissariat--in the Netherlands.

'The Duke of Southward is another instance,' continued Owen.  'He "owns" miles of the country
we speak of as "ours".  Much of his part consists of confiscated monastery lands which were
stolen from the owners by King Henry VIII and presented to the ancestors of the present Duke.

'Whether it was right or wrong that these parts of our country should ever have been given
to those people--the question whether those ancestor persons were really deserving cases or
not--is a thing we need not trouble ourselves about now.  But the present holders are certainly
not deserving people.  They do not even take the trouble to pretend they are.  They have done
nothing and they do nothing to justify their possession of these "estates" as they call them.
And in my opinion no man who is in his right mind can really think it's just that these people
should be allowed to prey upon their fellow men as they are doing now.  Or that it is right
that their children should be allowed to continue to prey upon our children for ever!  The
thousands of people on those estates work and live in poverty in order that these three men
and their families may enjoy leisure and luxury.  Just think of the absurdity of it!' continued
Owen, pointing to the drawings. 'All those people allowing themselves to be overworked and
bullied and starved and robbed by this little crowd here!'

Observing signs of a renewal of the storm of protests, Owen hurriedly concluded:

'Whether it's right or wrong, you can't deny that the fact that this small minority possesses
nearly all the land of the country is one of the principal causes of the poverty of the majority.'

'Well, that seems true enough,' said Easton, slowly.  'The rent's the biggest item a workin'
man's got to pay.  When you're out of work and you can't afford other things, you goes without
'em, but the rent 'as to be paid whether you're workin' or not.'

'Yes, that's enough,' said Harlow impatiently; 'but you gets value for yer money: you can't
expect to get a 'ouse for nothing.'

'Suppose we admits as it's wrong, just for the sake of argyment,' said Crass in a jeering tone.
'Wot then?  Wot about it?  'Ow's it agoin' to be altered.'

'Yes!' cried Harlow triumphantly.  'That's the bloody question!  'Ow's it goin' to be altered?
It can't be done!'

There was a general murmur of satisfaction.  Nearly everyone seemed very pleased to think that
the existing state of things could not possibly be altered.

'Whether it can be altered or not, whether it's right or wrong, landlordism is one of the causes
of poverty,' Owen repeated.  'Poverty is not caused by men and women getting married; it's
not caused by machinery; it's not caused by "over-production"; it's not caused by drink or
laziness; and it's not caused by "over-population".  It's caused by Private Monopoly.  That
is the present system.  They have monopolized everything that it is possible to monopolize;
they have got the whole earth, the minerals in the earth and the streams that water the earth.
The only reason they have not monopolized the daylight and the air is that it is not possible
to do it.  If it were possible to construct huge gasometers and to draw together and compress
within them the whole of the atmosphere, it would have been done long ago, and we should have
been compelled to work for them in order to get money to buy air to breathe.  And if that seemingly
impossible thing were accomplished tomorrow, you would see thousands of people dying for want
of air--or of the money to buy it--even as now thousands are dying for want of the other necessities
of life. You would see people going about gasping for breath, and telling each other that the
likes of them could not expect to have air to breathe unless they had the money to pay for
it.  Most of you here, for instance, would think and say so.  Even as you think at present
that it's right for so few people to own the Earth, the Minerals and the Water, which are all
just as necessary as is the air.  In exactly the same spirit as you now say: "It's Their Land,"
"It's Their Water," "It's Their Coal," "It's Their Iron," so you would say "It's Their Air,"
"These are their gasometers, and what right have the likes of us to expect them to allow us
to breathe for nothing?"  And even while he is doing this the air monopolist will be preaching
sermons on the Brotherhood of Man; he will be dispensing advice on "Christian Duty" in the
Sunday magazines; he will give utterance to numerous more or less moral maxims for the guidance
of the young.  And meantime, all around, people will be dying for want of some of the air that
he will have bottled up in his gasometers.  And when you are all dragging out a miserable existence,
gasping for breath or dying for want of air, if one of your number suggests smashing a hole
in the side of one of the gasometers, you will all fall upon him in the name of law and order,
and after doing your best to tear him limb from limb, you'll drag him, covered with blood,
in triumph to the nearest Police Station and deliver him up to "justice" in the hope of being
given a few half-pounds of air for your trouble.'

'I suppose you think the landlords ought to let people live in their 'ouses for nothing?' said
Crass, breaking the silence that followed.

'Certainly,' remarked Harlow, pretending to be suddenly converted to Owen's views, 'I reckon
the landlord ought to pay the rent to the tenant!'

'Of course, Landlordism is not the only cause,' said Owen, ignoring these remarks. 'The wonderful
system fosters a great many others. Employers of labour, for instance, are as great a cause
of poverty as landlords are.'

This extraordinary statement was received with astonished silence.

'Do you mean to say that if I'm out of work and a master gives me a job, that 'e's doin' me
a injury?' said Crass at length.

'No, of course not,' replied Owen.

'Well, what the bloody 'ell DO yer mean, then?'

'I mean this: supposing that the owner of a house wishes to have it repainted.  What does he
usually do?'

'As a rule, 'e goes to three or four master painters and asks 'em to give 'im a price for the job.'

'Yes; and those master painters are so eager to get the work that they cut the price down to
what they think is the lowest possible point,' answered Owen, 'and the lowest usually gets
the job.  The successful tenderer has usually cut the price so fine that to make it pay he
has to scamp the work, pay low wages, and drive and sweat the men whom he employs.  He wants
them to do two days' work for one day's pay.  The result is that a job which--if it were done
properly--would employ say twenty men for two months, is rushed and scamped in half that time
with half that number of men.

'This means that--in one such case as this--ten men are deprived of one month's employment;
and ten other men are deprived of two months' employment; and all because the employers have
been cutting each other's throats to get the work.'

'And we can't 'elp ourselves, you nor me either,' said Harlow. 'Supposing one of us on this
job was to make up 'is mind not to tear into it like we do, but just keep on steady and do
a fair day's work: wot would 'appen?'

No one answered; but the same thought was in everyone's mind.  Such a one would be quickly
marked by Hunter; and even if the latter failed to notice it would not be long before Crass
reported his conduct.

'We can't 'elp ourselves,' said Easton, gloomily.  'If one man won't do it there's twenty others
ready to take 'is place.'

'We could help ourselves to a certain extent if we would stand by each other.  If, for instance,
we all belonged to the Society,' said Owen.

'I don't believe in the Society,' observed Crass.  'I can't see as it's right that a inferior
man should 'ave the same wages as me.'

'They're a drunken lot of beer-swillers,' remarked Slyme.  'That's why they always 'as their
meetings in public 'ouses.'

Harlow made no comment on this question.  He had at one time belonged to the Union and he was
rather ashamed of having fallen away from it.

'Wot good 'as the Society ever done 'ere?' said Easton.  'None that I ever 'eard of.'

'It might be able to do some good if most of us belonged to it; but after all, that's another
matter.  Whether we could help ourselves or not, the fact remains that we don't.  But you must
admit that this competition of the employers is one of the causes of unemployment and poverty,
because it's not only in our line--exactly the same thing happens in every other trade and
industry.  Competing employers are the upper and nether millstones which grind the workers
between them.'

'I suppose you think there oughtn't to be no employers at all?' sneered Crass.  'Or p'raps
you think the masters ought to do all the bloody work theirselves, and give us the money?'

'I don't see 'ow its goin' to be altered,' remarked Harlow.  'There MUST be masters, and SOMEONE
'as to take charge of the work and do the thinkin'.'

'Whether it can be altered or not,' said Owen, 'Landlordism and Competing Employers are two
of the causes of poverty.  But of course they're only a small part of the system which produces
luxury, refinement and culture for a few, and condemns the majority to a lifelong struggle
with adversity, and many thousands to degradation, hunger and rags.  This is the system you
all uphold and defend, although you don't mind admitting that it has made the world into a hell.'

Crass slowly drew the Obscurer cutting from his waistcoat pocket, but after a moment's thought
he replaced it, deciding to defer its production till a more suitable occasion.

'But you 'aven't told us yet 'ow you makes out that money causes poverty,' cried Harlow, winking
at the others.  'That's what I'M anxious to 'ear about!'

'So am I,' remarked the man behind the moat.  'I was just wondering whether I 'adn't better
tell ole Misery that I don't want no wages this week.'

'I think I'll tell 'im on Saterday to keep MY money and get 'imself a few drinks with it,'
said Philpot.  'It might cheer 'im up a bit and make 'im a little more sociable and friendly like.'

'Money IS the principal cause of poverty,' said Owen.

''Ow do yer make it out?' cried Sawkins.

But their curiosity had to remain unsatisfied for the time being because Crass announced that
it was 'just on it'.

Chapter 16

True Freedom

About three o'clock that afternoon, Rushton suddenly appeared and began walking silently about
the house, and listening outside the doors of rooms where the hands were working.  He did not
succeed in catching anyone idling or smoking or talking.  The nearest approach to what the
men called 'a capture' that he made was, as he stood outside the door of one of the upper rooms
in which Philpot and Harlow were working, he heard them singing one of Sankey's hymns--'Work!
for the night is coming'.  He listened to two verses and several repetitions of the chorus.
Being a 'Christian', he could scarcely object to this, especially as by peeping through the
partly open door  he could see that they were suiting the action to the word.  When he went
into the room they glanced around to see who it was, and stopped singing. Rushton did not speak,
but stood in the middle of the floor, silently watching them as they worked, for about a quarter
of an hour.  Then, without having uttered a syllable, he turned and went out.

They heard him softly descend the stairs, and Harlow, turning to Philpot said in a hoarse whisper:

'What do you think of the b--r, standing there watchin' us like that, as if we was a couple
of bloody convicts?  If it wasn't that I've got someone else beside myself to think of, I would
'ave sloshed the bloody sod in the mouth with this pound brush!'

'Yes; it does make yer feel like that, mate,' replied Philpot, 'but of course we mustn't give
way to it.'

'Several times,' continued Harlow, who was livid with anger, 'I was on the point of turnin'
round and sayin' to 'im, "What the bloody 'ell do you mean by standin' there and watchin' me,
you bloody, psalm-singin' swine?"  It took me all my time to keep it in, I can tell you.'

Meanwhile, Rushton was still going about the house, occasionally standing and watching the
other men in the same manner as he had watched Philpot and Harlow.

None of the men looked round from their work or spoke either to Rushton or to each other. 
The only sounds heard were the noises made by the saws and hammers of the carpenters who were
fixing the frieze rails and dado rails or repairing parts of the woodwork in some of the rooms.

Crass placed himself in Rushton's way several times with the hope of being spoken to, but beyond
curtly acknowledging the 'foreman's' servile 'Good hafternoon, sir,' the master took no notice
of him.

After about an hour spent in this manner Rushton went away, but as no one say him go, it was
not until some considerable time after his departure that they knew that he was gone.

Owen was secretly very disappointed.  'I thought he had come to tell me about the drawing-room,'
he said to himself, 'but I suppose it's not decided yet.'

Just as the 'hands' were beginning to breathe freely again, Misery arrived, carrying some rolled-up
papers in his hand.  He also flitted silently from one room to another, peering round corners
and listening at doors in the hope of seeing or hearing something which would give him an excuse
for making an example of someone.  Disappointed in this, he presently crawled upstairs to the
room where Owen was working and, handing to him the roll of papers he had been carrying, said:

'Mr Sweater had decided to 'ave this work done, so you can start on it as soon as you like.'

It is impossible to describe, without appearing to exaggerate, the emotions experienced by
Owen as he heard this announcement.  For one thing it meant that the work at this house would
last longer than it would otherwise have done; and it also meant that he would be paid for
the extra time he had spent on the drawings, besides having his wages increased--for he was
always paid an extra penny an hour when engaged on special work, such as graining or sign-writing
or work of the present kind.  But these considerations did not occur to him at the moment at
all, for to him it meant much more.  Since his first conversation on the subject with Rushton
he had though of little else than this work.

In a sense he had been DOING it ever since.  He had thought and planned and altered the details
of the work repeatedly.  The colours for the different parts had been selected and rejected
and re-selected over and over again.  A keen desire to do the work had grown within him, but
he had scarcely allowed himself to hope that it would be done at all.  His face flushed slightly
as he took the drawings from Hunter.

'You can make a start on it tomorrow morning,' continued that gentleman.  'I'll tell Crass
to send someone else up 'ere to finish this room.'

'I shan't be able to commence tomorrow, because the ceiling and walls will have to be painted
first.'

'Yes: I know.  You and Easton can do that.  One coat tomorrow, another on Friday and the third
on Saturday--that is, unless you can make it do with two coats.  Even if it has to be the three,
you will be able to go on with your decoratin' on Monday.'

'I won't be able to start on Monday, because I shall have to make some working drawings first.'

'Workin' drorins!' ejaculated Misery with a puzzled expression.  'Wot workin' drorins?  You've
got them, ain't yer?' pointing to the roll of papers.

'Yes: but as the same ornaments are repeated several times, I shall have to make a number of
full-sized drawings, with perforated outlines, to transfer the design to the walls,' said Owen,
and he proceeded to laboriously explain the processes.

Nimrod looked at him suspiciously.  'Is all that really necessary?' he asked.  'Couldn't you
just copy it on the wall, free-hand?'

'No; that wouldn't do.  It would take much longer that way.'

This consideration appealed to Misery.

'Ah, well,' he sighed.  'I s'pose you'll 'ave to do it the way you said; but for goodness sake
don't spend too much time over it, because we've took it very cheap.  We only took it on so
as you could 'ave a job, not that we expect to make any profit out of it.'

'And I shall have to cut some stencils, so I shall need several sheets of cartridge paper.'

Upon hearing of this addition expense, Misery's long visage appeared to become several inches
longer; but after a moment's thought he brightened up.

'I'll tell you what!' he exclaimed with a cunning leer, 'there's lots of odd rolls of wallpaper
down at the shop.  Couldn't you manage with some of that?'

'I'm afraid it wouldn't do,' replied Owen doubtfully, 'but I'll have a look at it and if possible
I'll use it.'

'Yes, do!' said Misery, pleased at the thought of saving something. 'Call at the shop on your
way home tonight, and we'll see what we can find.  'Ow long do you think it'll take you to
make the drorins and the stencils?'

'Well, today's Thursday.  If you let someone else help Easton to get the room ready, I think
I can get them done in time to bring them with me on Monday morning.'

'Wot do yer mean, "bring them with you"?' demanded Nimrod.

'I shall have to do them at home, you know.'

'Do 'em at 'ome!  Why can't you do 'em 'ere?'

'Well, there's no table, for one thing.'

'Oh, but we can soon fit you out with a table. You can 'ave a pair of paperhanger's tressels
and boards for that matter.'

'I have a lot of sketches and things at home that I couldn't very well bring here,' said Owen.

Misery argued about it for a long time, insisting that the drawings should be made either on
the 'job' or at the paint-shop down at the yard.  How, he asked, was he to know at what hour
Owen commenced or left off working, if the latter did them at home?

'I shan't charge any more time than I really work,' replied Owen.  'I can't possibly do them
here or at the paint-shop.  I know I should only make a mess of them under such conditions.'

'Well, I s'pose you'll 'ave to 'ave your own way,' said Misery, dolefully.  'I'll let Harlow
help Easton paint the room out, so as you can get your stencils and things ready.  But for
Gord's sake get 'em done as quick as you can.  If you could manage to get done by Friday and
come down and help Easton on Saturday, it would be so much the better.  And when you do get
a start on the decoratin', I shouldn't take too much care over it, you know, if I was you,
because we 'ad to take the job for next to nothing or Mr Sweater would never 'ave 'ad it done
at all!'

Nimrod now began to crawl about the house, snarling and grumbling at everyone.

'Now then, you chaps.  Rouse yourselves!' he bellowed, 'you seem to think this is a 'orspital.
If some of you don't make a better show than this, I'll 'ave to 'ave a Alteration!  There's
plenty of chaps walkin' about doin' nothin' who'll be only too glad of a job!'

He went into the scullery, where Crass was mixing some colour.

'Look 'ere, Crass!' he said.  'I'm not at all satisfied with the way you're gettin' on with
the work.  You must push the chaps a bit more than you're doin'.  There's not enough being
done, by a long way.  We shall lose money over this job before we're finished!'

Crass--whose fat face had turned a ghastly green with fright--mumbled something about getting
on with it as fast as he could.

'Well, you'll 'ave to make 'em move a bit quicker than this!' Misery howled, 'or there'll 'ave
to be a ALTERATION!'

By an 'alteration' Crass understood that he might get the sack, or that someone else might
be put in charge of the job, and that would of course reduce him to the ranks and do away with
his chance of being kept on longer than the others.  He determined to try to ingratiate himself
with Hunter and appease his wrath by sacrificing someone else. He glanced cautiously into the
kitchen and up the passage and then, lowering his voice, he said:

'They all shapes pretty well, except Newman.  I would 'ave told you about 'im before, but I
thought I'd give 'im a fair chance.  I've spoke to 'im several times myself about not doin'
enough, but it don't seem to make no difference.'

'I've 'ad me eye on 'im meself for some time,' replied Nimrod in the same tone.  'Anybody would
think the work was goin' to be sent to a Exhibition, the way 'e messes about with it, rubbing
it with glasspaper and stopping up every little crack!  I can't understand where 'e gets all
the glasspaper FROM.'

''E brings it 'isself!' said Crass hoarsely.  'I know for a fact that 'e bought two 'a'penny
sheets of it, last week out of 'is own money!'

'Oh, 'e did, did 'e?' snarled Misery.  'I'll give 'im glasspaper! I'll 'ave a Alteration!'

He went into the hall, where he remained alone for a considerable time, brooding.  At last,
with the manner of one who has resolved on a certain course of action, he turned and entered
the room where Philpot and Harlow were working.

'You both get sevenpence an hour, don't you?' he said.

They both replied to the affirmative.

'I've never worked under price yet,' added Harlow.

'Nor me neither,' observed Philpot.

'Well, of course you can please yourselves,' Hunter continued, 'but after this week we've decided
not to pay more than six and a half. Things is cut so fine nowadays that we can't afford to
go on payin' sevenpence any longer.  You can work up till tomorrow night on the old terms,
but if you're not willin' to accept six and a half you needn't come on Saturday morning.  Please
yourselves.  Take it or leave it.'

Harlow and Philpot were both too much astonished to say anything in reply to this cheerful
announcement, and Hunter, with the final remark, 'You can think it over,' left them and went
to deliver the same ultimatum to all the other full-price men, who took it in the same way
as Philpot and Harlow had done.  Crass and Owen were the only two whose wages were not reduced.

It will be remembered that Newman was one of those who were already working for the reduced
rate.  Misery found him alone in one of the upper rooms, to which he was giving the final coat.
He was at his old tricks.  The woodwork of the cupboard be was doing was in a rather damaged
condition, and he was facing up the dents with white-lead putty before painting it.  He knew
quite well that Hunter objected to any but very large holes or cracks being stopped, and yet
somehow  or other he could not scamp the work to the extent that he was ordered to; and so,
almost by stealth, he was in the habit of doing it--not properly but as well as he dared. 
He even went to the length of occasionally buying a few sheets of glasspaper with his own money,
as Crass had told Hunter. When the latter came into the room he stood with a sneer on his face,
watching Newman for about five minutes before he spoke.  The workman became very nervous and
awkward under this scrutiny.

'You can make out yer time-sheet and come to the office for yer money at five o'clock,' said
Nimrod at last.  'We shan't require your valuable services no more after tonight.'

Newman went white.

'Why, what's wrong?' said he.  'What have I done?'

'Oh, it's not wot you've DONE,' replied Misery.  'It's wot you've not done.  That's wot's wrong!
You've not done enough, that's all!'  And without further parley he turned and went out.

Newman stood in the darkening room feeling as if his heart had turned to lead.  There rose
before his mind the picture of his home and family.  He could see them as they were at this
very moment, the wife probably just beginning to prepare the evening meal, and the children
setting the cups and saucers and other things on the kitchen table--a noisy work, enlivened
with many a frolic and childish dispute.  Even the two-year-old baby insisted on helping, although
she always put everything in the wrong place and made all sorts of funny mistakes. They had
all been so happy lately because they knew that he had work that would last till nearly Christmas--if
not longer.  And now this had happened--to plunge them back into the abyss of wretchedness
from which they had so recently escaped.  They still owed several weeks' rent, and were already
so much in debt to the baker and the grocer that it was hopeless to expect any further credit.

'My God!' said Newman, realizing the almost utter hopelessness of the chance of obtaining another
'job' and unconsciously speaking aloud. 'My God!  How can I tell them?  What WILL become of us?'

Having accomplished the objects of his visit, Hunter shortly afterwards departed, possibly
congratulating himself that he had not been hiding his light under a bushel, but that he had
set it upon a candlestick and given light unto all that were within that house.

As soon as they knew that he was gone, the men began to gather into little groups, but in a
little while they nearly all found themselves in the kitchen, discussing the reduction.  Sawkins
and the other 'lightweights' remained at their work.  Some of them got only fourpence halfpenny--Sawkins
was paid fivepence--so none of these were affected by the change.  The other two fresh hands--the
journeymen--joined the crowd in the kitchen, being anxious to conceal the fact that they had
agreed to accept the reduced rate before being 'taken on'.  Owen also was there, having heard
the news hem Philpot.

There was a lot of furious talk.  At first several of them spoke of 'chucking up', at once;
but others were more prudent, for they knew that if they did leave there were dozens of others
who would be eager to take their places.

'After all, you know,' said Slyme, who had--stowed away somewhere at the back of his head--an
idea of presently starting business on his own account: he was only waiting until he had saved
enough money, 'after all, there's something in what 'Unter says.  It's very 'ard to get a fair
price for work nowadays.  Things IS cut very fine.'

'Yes! We know all about that!' shouted Harlow.  'And who the bloody 'ell is it cuts 'em?  Why,
sich b--rs as 'Unter and Rushton!  If this firm 'adn't cut this job so fine, some other firm
would 'ave 'ad it for more money.  Rushton's cuttin' it fine didn't MAKE this job, did it?
It would 'ave been done just the same if they 'adn't tendered for it at all!  The only difference
is that we should 'ave been workin' for some other master.'

'I don't believe the bloody job's cut fine at all!' said Philpot.

'Rushton is a pal of Sweater's and they're both members of the Town Council.'

'That may be,' replied Slyme; 'but all the same I believe Sweater got several other prices
besides Rushton's--friend or no friend; and you can't blame 'im: it's only business.  But pr'aps
Rushton got the preference--Sweater may 'ave told 'im the others' prices.'

'Yes, and a bloody fine lot of prices they was, too, if the truth was known!' said Bundy. 
'There was six other firms after this job to my knowledge--Pushem and Sloggem, Bluffum and
Doemdown, Dodger and Scampit, Snatcham and Graball, Smeeriton and Leavit, Makehaste and Sloggitt,
and Gord only knows 'ow many more.'

At this moment Newman came into the room.  He looked so white and upset that the others involuntarily
paused in their conversation.

'Well, what do YOU think of it?' asked Harlow.

'Think of what?' said Newman.

'Why, didn't 'Unter tell you?' cried several voices, whose owners looked suspiciously at him.
They thought--if Hunter had not spoken to Newman, it must be because he was already working
under price. There had been a rumour going about the last few days to that effect.

'Didn't Misery tell you?  They're not goin' to pay more than six and a half after this week.'

'That's not what 'e said to me.  'E just told me to knock off. Said  I didn't do enough for 'em.'

'Jesus Christ!' exclaimed Crass, pretending to be overcome with surprise.

Newman's account of what had transpired was listened to in gloomy silence.  'Those who--a few
minutes previously--had been talking loudly of chucking up the job became filled with apprehension
that they might be served in the same manner as he had been.  Crass was one of the loudest
in his expression of astonishment and indignation, but he rather overdid it and only succeeded
in confirming the secret suspicion of the others that he had had something to do with Hunter's
action.

The result of the discussion was that they decided to submit to Misery's terms for the time
being, until they could see a chance of getting work elsewhere.

As Owen had to go to the office to see the wallpaper spoken of by Hunter, he accompanied Newman
when the latter went to get his wages. Nimrod was waiting for them, and had the money ready
in an envelope, which he handed to Newman, who took it without speaking and went away.

Misery had been rummaging amongst the old wallpapers, and had got out a great heap of odd rolls,
which he now submitted to Owen, but after examining them the latter said that they were unsuitable
for the purpose, so after some argument Misery was compelled to sign an order for some proper
cartridge paper, which Owen obtained at a stationer's on his way home.

The next morning, when Misery went to the 'Cave', he was in a fearful rage, and he kicked up
a terrible row with Crass.  He said that Mr Rushton had been complaining of the lack of discipline
on the job, and he told Crass to tell all the hands that for the future singing in working
hours was strictly forbidden, and anyone caught breaking this rule would be instantly dismissed.

Several times during the following days Nimrod called at Owen's flat to see how the work was
progressing and to impress upon him the necessity of not taking too much trouble over it.

Chapter 17

The Rev. John Starr

'What time is it now, Mum?' asked Frankie as soon as he had finished dinner on the following
Sunday.

'Two o'clock.'

'Hooray!  Only one more hour and Charley will be here!  Oh, I wish it was three o'clock now,
don't you, Mother?'

'No, dear, I don't.  You're not dressed yet, you know.'

Frankie made a grimace.

'You're surely not going to make me wear my velvets, are you, Mum? Can't I go just as I am,
in my old clothes?'

The 'velvets' was a brown suit of that material that Nora had made out of the least worn parts
of an old costume of her own.

'Of course not: if you went as you are now, you'd have everyone staring at you.'

'Well, I suppose I'll have to put up with it,' said Frankie, resignedly.

'And I think you'd better begin to dress me now, don't you?'

'Oh, there's plenty of time yet; you'd only make yourself untidy and then I should have the
trouble all over again.  Play with your toys a little while, and when I've done the washing
up I'll get you ready.'

Frankie obeyed, and for about ten minutes his mother heard him in the next room rummaging in
the box where he stored his collection of 'things'.  At the end of that time, however, he returned
to the kitchen.  'Is it time to dress me yet, Mum?'

'No, dear, not yet.  You needn't be afraid; you'll be ready in plenty of time.'

'But I can't help being afraid; you might forget.'

'Oh, I shan't forget.  There's lots of time.'

'Well, you know, I should be much easier in my mind if you would dress me now, because perhaps
our clock's wrong, or p'r'aps when you begin dressing me you'll find some buttons off or something,
and then there'll be a lot of time wasted sewing them on; or p'r'aps you won't be able to find
my clean stockings or something and then while you're looking for it Charley might come, and
if he sees I'm not ready he mightn't wait for me.'

'Oh, dear!' said Nora, pretending to be alarmed at this appalling list of possibilities.  'I
suppose it will be safer to dress you at once. It's very evident you won't let me have much
peace until it is done, but mind when you're dressed you'll have to sit down quietly and wait
till he comes, because I don't want the trouble of dressing you twice.'

'Oh, I don't mind sitting still,' returned Frankie, loftily.  'That's very easy.

'I don't mind having to take care of my clothes,' said Frankie as his mother--having washed
and dressed him, was putting the finishing touches to his hair, brushing and combing and curling
the long yellow locks into ringlets round her fingers, 'the only thing I don't like is having
my hair done.  You know all these curls are quite unnecessary. I'm sure it would save you a
lot of trouble if you wouldn't mind cutting them off.'

Nora did not answer: somehow or other she was unwilling to comply with this often-repeated
entreaty.  It seemed to her that when this hair was cut off the child would have become a different
individual--more separate and independent.

'If you don't want to cut it off for your own sake, you might do it for my sake, because I
think it's the reason some of the big boys don't want to play with me, and some of them shout
after me and say I'm a girl, and sometimes they sneak up behind me and pull it.  Only yesterday
I had to have a fight with a boy for doing it: and even Charley Linden laughs at me, and he's
my best friend--except you and Dad of course.

'Why don't you cut it off, Mum?'

'I am going to cut it as I promised you, after your next birthday.'

'Then I shall be jolly glad when it comes.  Won't you?  Why, what's the matter, Mum?  What
are you crying for?'  Frankie was so concerned that he began to cry also, wondering if he had
done or said something wrong. He kissed her repeatedly, stroking her face with his hand. What's
the matter, Mother?'

'I was thinking that when you're over seven and you've had your hair cut short you won't be
a baby any more.'

'Why, I'm not a baby now, am I? Here, look at this!'

He strode over to the wall and, dragging out two chairs, he placed them in the middle of the
room, back to back, about fifteen inches apart, and before his mother realized what he was
doing he had climbed up and stood with one leg on the back of each chair.

'I should like to see a baby who could do this,' he cried, with his face wet with tears.  'You
needn't lift me down.  I can get down by myself.  Babies can't do tricks like these or even
wipe up the spoons and forks or sweep the passage.  But you needn't cut it off if you don't
want to.  I'll bear it as long as you like.  Only don't cry any more, because it makes me miserable.
If I cry when I fall down or when you pull my hair when you're combing it you always tell me
to bear it like a man and not be a baby, and now you're crying yourself just because I'm not
a baby.  You ought to be jolly glad that I'm nearly grown up into a man, because you know I've
promised to build you a house with the money I earn, and then you needn't do no more work.
We'll have a servant the same as the people downstairs, and Dad can stop at home and sit by
the fire and read the paper or play with me and Maud and have pillow fights and tell stories and--'

'It's all right, dearie,' said Nora, kissing him.  'I'm not crying now, and you mustn't either,
or your eyes will be all red and you won't be able to go with Charley at all.'

When she had finished dressing him, Frankie sat for some time in silence, apparently lost in
thought.  At last he said:

'Why don't you get a baby, Mother?  You could nurse it, and I could have it to play with instead
of going out in the street.'

'We can't afford to keep a baby, dear.  You know, even as it is, sometimes we have to go without
things we want because we haven't the money to buy them.  Babies need many things that cost
lots of money.'

'When I build our house when I'm a man, I'll take jolly good care not to have a gas-stove in
it.  That's what runs away with all the money; we're always putting pennies in the slot.  And
that reminds me: Charley said I'll have to take a ha'penny to put in the mishnery box. Oh,
dear, I'm tired of sitting still.  I wish he'd come. What time is it now, Mother?'

Before she could answer both Frankie's anxiety and the painful ordeal of sitting still were
terminated by the loud peal at the bell announcing Charley's arrival, and Frankie, without
troubling to observe the usual formality of looking out of the window to see if it was a runaway
ring, had clattered half-way downstairs before he heard his mother calling him to come back
for the halfpenny; then he clattered up again and then down again at such a rate and with so
much noise as to rouse the indignation of all the respectable people in the house.

When he arrived at the bottom of the stairs he remembered that he had omitted to say goodbye,
and as it was too far to go up again he rang the bell and then went into the middle of the
road and looked up at the window that Nora opened.

'Goodbye, Mother,' he shouted.  'Tell Dad I forgot to say it before I came down.'

The School was not conducted in the chapel itself, but in a large lecture hall under it.  At
one end was a small platform raised about six inches from the floor; on this was a chair and
a small table.  A number of groups of chairs and benches were arranged at intervals round the
sides and in the centre of the room, each group of seats accommodating a separate class.  On
the walls--which were painted a pale green--were a number of coloured pictures: Moses striking
the Rock, the Israelites dancing round the Golden Calf, and so on.  As the reader is aware,
Frankie had never been to a Sunday School of any kind before, and he stood for a moment looking
in at the door and half afraid to enter.  The lessons had already commenced, but the scholars
had not yet settled down to work.

The scene was one of some disorder: some of the children talking, laughing or playing, and
the teachers alternately threatening and coaxing them.  The girls' and the very young children's
classes were presided over by ladies: the boys' teachers were men.

The reader already has some slight knowledge of a few of these people. There was Mr Didlum,
Mr Sweater, Mr Rushton and Mr Hunter and Mrs Starvem (Ruth Easton's former mistress).  On this
occasion, in addition to the teachers and other officials of the Sunday School, there were
also present a considerable number of prettily dressed ladies and a few gentlemen, who had
come in the hope of meeting the Rev. John Starr, the young clergyman who was going to be their
minister for the next few weeks during the absence of their regular shepherd, Mr Belcher, who
was going away for a holiday for the benefit of his health.  Mr Belcher was not suffering from
any particular malady, but was merely 'run down', and rumour had it that this condition had
been brought about by the rigorous asceticism of his life and his intense devotion to the arduous
labours of his holy calling.

Mr Starr had conducted the service in the Shining Light Chapel that morning, and a great sensation
had been produced by the young minister's earnest and eloquent address, which was of a very
different style from that of their regular minister.  Although perhaps they had not quite grasped
the real significance of all that he had said, most of them had been favourably impressed by
the young clergyman's appearance and manner in the morning: but that might have arisen from
prepossession and force of habit, for they were accustomed, as a matter of course, to think
well of any minister.  There were, however, one or two members of the congregation who were
not without some misgivings and doubts as to the soundness of his doctrines.  Mr Starr had
promised that he would look in some time during the afternoon to say a few words to the Sunday
School children, and consequently on this particular afternoon all the grown-ups were looking
forward so eagerly to hearing him again that not much was done in the way of lessons.  Every
time a late arrival entered all eyes were directed towards the door in the hope and expectation
that it was he.

When Frankie, standing at the door, saw all the people looking at him he drew back timidly.

'Come on, man,' said Charley.  'You needn't be afraid; it's not like a weekday school; they
can't do nothing to us, not even if we don't behave ourselves.  There's our class over in that
corner and that's our teacher, Mr Hunter.  You can sit next to me. Come on!'

Thus encouraged, Frankie followed Charley over to the class, and both sat down.  The teacher
was so kind and spoke so gently to the children that in a few minutes Frankie felt quite at home.

When Hunter noticed how well cared for and well dressed he was he thought the child must belong
to well-to-do, respectable parents. Frankie did not pay much attention to the lesson, for he
was too much interested in the pictures on the walls and in looking at the other children.
He also noticed a very fat man who was not teaching at all, but drifted aimlessly about he
room from one class to another.  After a time he came and stood by the class where Frankie
was, and, after nodding to Hunter, remained near, listening and smiling patronizingly at the
children.  He was arrayed in a long garment of costly black cloth, a sort of frock coat, and
by the rotundity of his figure he seemed to be one of those accustomed to sit in the chief
places at feasts.  This was the Rev. Mr Belcher, minister of the Shining Light Chapel.  His
short, thick neck was surrounded by a studless collar, and apparently buttonless, being fastened
in some mysterious way known only to himself, and he showed no shirt front.

The long garment beforementioned was unbuttoned and through the opening there protruded a vast
expanse of waistcoat and trousers, distended almost to bursting by the huge globe of flesh
they contained.  A gold watch-chain with a locket extended partly across the visible portion
of the envelope of the globe.  He had very large feet which were carefully encased in soft
calfskin boots.  If he had removed the long garment, this individual would have resembled a
balloon: the feet representing the car and the small head that surmounted the globe, the safety
valve; as it was it did actually serve the purpose of a safety valve, the owner being, in consequence
of gross overfeeding and lack of natural exercise, afflicted with chronic flatulence, which
manifested itself in frequent belchings forth through the mouth of the foul gases generated
in the stomach by the decomposition of the foods with which it was generally loaded. But as
the Rev. Mr Belcher had never been seen with his coat off, no one ever noticed the resemblance.
It was not necessary for him to take his coat off: his part in life was not to help to produce,
but to help to devour the produce of the labour of others.

After exchanging a few words and grins with Hunter, he moved on to another class, and presently
Frankie with a feeling of awe noticed that the confused murmuring sound that had hitherto pervaded
the place was hushed.  The time allotted for lessons had expired, and the teachers were quietly
distributing hymn-books to the children. Meanwhile the balloon had drifted up to the end of
the hall and had ascended the platform, where it remained stationary by the side of the table,
occasionally emitting puffs of gas through the safety valve. On the table were several books,
and also a pile of folded cards. These latter were about six inches by three inches; there
was some printing on the outside: one of them was lying open on the table, showing the inside,
which was ruled and had money columns.

Presently Mr Belcher reached out a flabby white hand and, taking up one of the folded cards,
he looked around upon the under-fed, ill-clad children with a large, sweet, benevolent, fatherly
smile, and then in a drawling voice occasionally broken by explosions of flatulence, he said:

'My dear children.  This afternoon as I was standing near Brother Hunter's class I heard him
telling them of the wanderings of the Children of Israel in the wilderness, and of all the
wonderful things that were done for them; and I thought how sad it was that they were so ungrateful.

'Now those ungrateful Israelites had received many things, but we have even more cause to be
grateful than they had, for we have received even more abundantly than they did.'  (Here the
good man's voice was stilled by a succession of explosions.)  'And I am sure,' he resumed,
'that none of you would like to be even as those Israelites, ungrateful for all the good things
you have received.  Oh, how thankful you should be for having been made happy English children.
Now, I am sure that you are grateful and that you will all be very glad of an opportunity of
showing your gratitude by doing something in return.

'Doubtless some of you have noticed the unseemly condition of the interior of our Chapel. 
The flooring is broken in countless places. the walls are sadly in need of cleansing and distempering,
and they also need cementing externally to keep out the draught.  The seats and benches and
the chairs are also in a most unseemly condition and need varnishing.

'Now, therefore, after much earnest meditation and prayer, it has been decided to open a Subscription
List, and although times are very hard just now, we believe we shall succeed in getting enough
to have the work done; so I want each one of you to take one of these cards and go round to
all your friends to see how much you can collect.  It doesn't matter how trifling the amounts
are, because the smallest donations will be thankfully received.

'Now, I hope you will all do your very best.  Ask everyone you know; do not refrain from asking
people because you think that they are too poor to give a donation, but remind them that if
they cannot give their thousands they can give the widow's mite.  Ask Everyone!  First of all
ask those whom you feel certain will give: then ask all those whom you think may possibly give:
and, finally, ask all those whom you feel certain will not give: and you will be surprised
to find that many of these last will donate abundantly.

'If your friends are very poor and unable to give a large donation at one time, a good plan
would be to arrange to call upon them every Saturday afternoon with your card to collect their
donations.  And while you are asking others, do not forget to give what you can yourselves.
Just a little self-denial, and those pennies and half-pennies which you so often spend on sweets
and other unnecessary things might be given--as a donation--to the good cause.'

Here the holy man paused again, and there was a rumbling, gurgling noise in the interior of
the balloon, followed by several escapes of gas through the safety valve.  The paroxysm over,
the apostle of self-denial continued:

'All those who wish to collect donations will stay behind for a few minutes after school, when
Brother Hunter--who has kindly consented to act as secretary to the fund--will issue the cards.

'I would like here to say a few words of thanks to Brother Hunter for the great interest he
has displayed in this matter, and for all the trouble he is taking to help us to gather in
the donations.'

This tribute was well deserved; Hunter in fact had originated the whole scheme in the hope
of securing the job for Rushton & Co., and two-and-a-half per cent of the profits for himself.

Mr Belcher now replaced the collecting card on the table and, taking up one of the hymn-books,
gave out the words and afterwards conducted the singing, nourishing one fat, flabby white hand
in the air and holding the book in the other.

As the last strains of the music died away, he closed his eyes and a sweet smile widened his
mouth as he stretched forth his right hand, open, palm down, with the fingers close together,
and said:

'Let us pray.'

With much shuffling of feet everyone knelt down.  Hunter's lanky form was distributed over
a very large area; his body lay along one of the benches, his legs and feet sprawled over the
floor, and his huge hands clasped the sides of the seat.  His eyes were tightly closed and
an expression of the most intense misery pervaded his long face.

Mrs Starvem, being so fat that she knew if she once knelt down she would never be able to get
up again, compromised by sitting on the extreme edge of her chair, resting her elbows on the
back of the seat in front of her, and burying her face in her hands.  It was a very large face,
but her hands were capacious enough to receive it.

In a seat at the back of the hall knelt a pale-faced, weary-looking little woman about thirty-six
years of age, very shabbily dressed, who had come in during the singing.  This was Mrs White,
the caretaker, Bert White's mother.  When her husband died, the committee of the Chapel, out
of charity, gave her this work, for which they paid her six shillings a week.  Of course, they
could not offer her full employment; the idea was that she could get other work as well, charing
and things of that kind, and do the Chapel work in between. There wasn't much to do: just the
heating furnace to light when necessary; the Chapel, committee rooms, classrooms and Sunday
School to sweep and scrub out occasionally; the hymn-books to collect, etc. Whenever they had
a tea meeting--which was on an average about twice a week--there were the trestle tables to
fix up, the chairs to arrange, the table to set out, and then, supervised by Miss Didlum or
some other lady, the tea to make.  There was rather a lot to do on the days following these
functions: the washing up, the tables and chairs to put away, the floor to sweep, and so on;
but the extra work was supposed to be compensated by the cakes and broken victuals generally
left over from the feast, which were much appreciated as a welcome change from the bread and
dripping or margarine that constituted Mrs White's and Bert's usual fare.

There were several advantages attached to the position: the caretaker became acquainted with
the leading members and their wives, some of who, out of charity, occasionally gave her a day's
work as charwoman, the wages being on about the same generous scale as those she earned at
the Chapel, sometimes supplemented by a parcel of broken victuals or some castoff clothing.

An evil-minded, worldly or unconverted person might possibly sum up the matter thus: these
people required this work done: they employed this woman to do it, taking advantage of her
poverty to impose upon her conditions of price and labour that they would not have liked to
endure themselves.  Although she worked very hard, early and late, the money they paid her
as wages was insufficient to enable her to provide herself with the bare necessaries of life.
Then her employers, being good, kind, generous, Christian people, came to the rescue and bestowed
charity, in the form of cast-off clothing and broken victuals.

Should any such evil-minded, worldly or unconverted persons happen to read these lines, it
is a sufficient answer to their impious and malicious criticisms to say that no such thoughts
ever entered the simple mind of Mrs White herself: on the contrary, this very afternoon as
she knelt in the Chapel, wearing an old mantle that some years previously had adorned the obese
person of the saintly Mrs Starvem, her heart was filled with gratitude towards her generous
benefactors.

During the prayer the door was softly opened: a gentleman in clerical dress entered on tiptoe
and knelt down next to Mr Didlum.  He came in very softly, but all the same most of those present
heard him and lifted their heads or peeped through their fingers to see who it was, and when
they recognized him a sound like a sigh swept through the hall.

At the end of the prayer, amid groans and cries of 'Amen', the balloon slowly descended from
the platform, and collapsed into one of the seats, and everyone rose up from the floor.  When
all were seated and the shuffling, coughing and blowing of noses had ceased Mr Didlum stood
up and said:

'Before we sing the closin' 'ymn, the gentleman hon my left, the Rev. Mr John Starr, will say
a few words.'

An expectant murmur rippled through the hall.  The ladies lifted their eyebrows and nodded,
smiled and whispered to each other; the gentlemen assumed various attitudes and expressions;
the children were very quiet.  Everyone was in a state of suppressed excitement as John Starr
rose from his seat and, stepping up on to the platform, stood by the side of the table, facing
them.

He was about twenty-six years of age, tall and slenderly built.  His clean-cut, intellectual
face, with its lofty forehead, and his air of refinement and culture were in striking contrast
to the coarse appearance of the other adults in the room: the vulgar, ignorant, uncultivated
crowd of profit-mongers and hucksters in front of him. But it was not merely his air of good
breeding and the general comeliness of his exterior that attracted and held one.  There was
an indefinable something about him--an atmosphere of gentleness and love that seemed to radiate
from his whole being, almost compelling confidence and affection from all those with whom he
came in contact. As he stood there facing the others with an inexpressibly winning smile upon
his comely face, it seemed impossible that there could be any fellowship between him and them.

There was nothing in his appearance to give anyone even an inkling of the truth, which was:
that he was there for the purpose of bolstering up the characters of the despicable crew of
sweaters and slave-drivers who paid his wages.

He did not give a very long address this afternoon--only just a Few Words but they were very
precious, original and illuminating.  He told them of certain Thoughts that had occurred to
his mind on his way there that afternoon; and as they listened, Sweater, Rushton, Didlum, Hunter,
and the other disciples exchanged significant looks and gestures.  Was it not magnificent!
Such power!  Such reasoning!  In fact, as they afterwards modestly admitted to each other,
it was so profound that even they experienced great difficulty in fathoming the speaker's meaning.

As for the ladies, they were motionless and dumb with admiration. They sat with flushed faces,
shining eyes and palpitating hearts, looking hungrily at the dear man as he proceeded:

'Unfortunately, our time this afternoon does not permit us to dwell at length upon these Thoughts.
Perhaps at some future date we may have the blessed privilege of so doing; but this afternoon
I have been asked to say a Few Words on another subject.  The failing health of your dear minister
has for some time past engaged the anxious attention of the congregation.'

Sympathetic glances were directed towards the interesting invalid; the ladies murmured, 'Poor
dear!' and other expressions of anxious concern.

'Although naturally robust,' continued Starr, 'long, continued Overwork, the loving solicitude
for Others that often prevented him taking even necessary repose, and a too rigorous devotion
to the practice of Self-denial have at last brought about the inevitable Breakdown, and rendered
a period of Rest absolutely imperative.'

The orator paused to take breath, and the silence that ensued was disturbed only by faint rumblings
in the interior of the ascetic victim of overwork.

'With this laudable object,' proceeded Start, 'a Subscription List was quietly opened about
a month ago, and those dear children who had cards and assisted in the good work of collecting
donations will be pleased to hear that altogether a goodly sum was gathered, but as it was
not quite enough, the committee voted a further amount out of the General Fund, and at a special
meeting held last Friday evening, your dear Shepherd was presented with an illuminated address,
and a purse of gold sufficient to defray the expenses of a month's holiday in the South of France.

'Although, of course, he regrets being separated from you even for such a brief period he feels
that in going he is choosing the lesser of two evils.  It is better to go to the South of France
for a month than to continue Working in spite of the warnings of exhausted nature and perhaps
be taken away from you altogether--by Heaven.'

'God forbid!' fervently ejaculated several disciples, and a ghastly pallor overspread the features
of the object of their prayers.

'Even as it is there is a certain amount of danger.  Let us hope and pray for the best, but
if the worst should happen and he is called upon to Ascend, there will be some satisfaction
in knowing that you have done what you could to avert the dreadful calamity.'

Here, probably as a precaution against the possibility of an involuntary ascent, a large quantity
of gas was permitted to escape through the safety valve of the balloon.

'He sets out on his pilgrimage tomorrow,' concluded Starr, 'and I am sure he will be followed
by the good wishes and prayers of all the members of his flock.'

The reverend gentleman resumed his seat, and almost immediately it became evident from the
oscillations of the balloon that Mr Belcher was desirous of rising to say a Few Words in acknowledgement,
but he was restrained by the entreaties of those near him, who besought him not to exhaust
himself.  He afterwards said that he would not have been able to say much even if they had
permitted him to speak, because he felt too full.

'During the absence of our beloved pastor,' said Brother Didlum, who now rose to give out the
closing hymn, 'his flock will not be left hentirely without a shepherd, for we 'ave arranged
with Mr Starr to come and say a Few Words to us hevery Sunday.'

From the manner in which they constantly referred to themselves, it might have been thought
that they were a flock of sheep instead of being what they really were--a pack of wolves.

When they heard Brother Didlum's announcement a murmur of intense rapture rose from the ladies,
and Mr Starr rolled his eyes and smiled sweetly.  Brother Didlum did not mention the details
of the 'arrangement', to have done so at that time would have been most unseemly, but the following
extract from the accounts of the chapel will not be out of place here: 'Paid to Rev. John Starr
for Sunday, Nov. 14--£4.4.0 per the treasurer.'  It was not a large sum considering the great
services rendered by Mr Starr, but, small as it was, it is to be feared that many worldly,
unconverted persons will think it was far too much to pay for a Few Words, even such wise words
as Mr John Starr's admittedly always were.  But the Labourer is worthy of his hire.

After the 'service' was over, most of the children, including Charley and Frankie, remained
to get collecting cards. Mr Starr was surrounded by a crowd of admirers, and a little later,
when he rode away with Mr Belcher and Mr Sweater in the latter's motor car, the ladies looked
hungrily after that conveyance, listening to the melancholy 'pip, pip' of its hooter and trying
to console themselves with the reflection that they would see him again in a few hours' time
at the evening service.

Chapter 18

The Lodger

In accordance with his arrangement with Hunter, Owen commenced the work in the drawing-room
on the Monday morning.  Harlow and Easton were distempering some of the ceilings, and about
ten o'clock they went down to the scullery to get some more whitewash.  Crass was there as
usual, pretending to be very busy mixing colours.

'Well, wot do you think of it?' he said as he served them with what they required.

'Think of what?' asked Easton.

'Why, hour speshul hartist,' replied Crass with a sneer.  'Do you think 'e's goin' to get through
with it?'

'Shouldn't like to say,' replied Easton guardedly.

'You know it's one thing to draw on a bit of paper and colour it with a penny box of paints,
and quite another thing to do it on a wall or ceiling,' continued Crass.  'Ain't it?'

'Yes; that's true enough,' said Harlow.

'Do you believe they're 'is own designs?' Crass went on.

'Be rather 'ard to tell,' remarked Easton, embarrassed.

Neither Harlow nor Easton shared Crass's sentiments in this matter, but at the same time they
could not afford to offend him by sticking up for Owen.

'If you was to ast me, quietly,' Crass added, 'I should be more inclined to say as 'e copied
it all out of some book.'

'That's just about the size of it, mate,' agreed Harlow.

'It would be a bit of all right if 'e was to make a bloody mess of it, wouldn't it?' Crass
continued with a malignant leer.

'Not arf!' said Harlow.

When the two men regained the upper landing on which they were working they exchanged significant
glances and laughed quietly.  Hearing these half-suppressed sounds of merriment, Philpot, who
was working alone in a room close by, put his head out of the doorway.

'Wot's the game?' he inquired in a low voice.

'Ole Crass ain't arf wild about Owen doin' that room,' replied Harlow, and repeated the substance
of Crass's remarks.

'It is a bit of a take-down for the bleeder, ain't it, 'avin' to play second fiddle,' said
Philpot with a delighted grin.

''E's opin' Owen'll make a mess of it,' Easton whispered.

'Well, 'e'll be disappointed, mate,' answered Philpot.  'I was workin' along of Owen for Pushem
and Sloggem about two year ago, and I seen 'im do a job down at the Royal 'Otel--the smokin'-room
ceilin' it was--and I can tell you it looked a bloody treat!'

'I've heard tell of it,' said Harlow.

'There's no doubt Owen knows 'is work,' remarked Easton, 'although 'e is a bit orf is onion
about Socialism.'

'I don't know so much about that, mate,' returned Philpot.  'I agree with a lot that 'e ses.
I've often thought the same things meself, but I can't talk like 'im, 'cause I ain't got no
'ead for it.'

'I agree with some of it too,' said Harlow with a laugh, 'but all the same 'e does say some
bloody silly things, you must admit.  For instance, that stuff about money bein' the cause
of poverty.'

'Yes. I can't exactly see that meself,' agreed Philpot.

'We must tackle 'im about that at dinner-time,' said Harlow.  'I should rather like to 'ear
'ow 'e makes it out.'

'For Gord's sake don't go startin' no arguments at dinner-time,' said Easton.  'Leave 'im alone
when 'e is quiet.'

'Yes; let's 'ave our dinner in peace, if possible,' said Philpot. 'Sh!!' he added, hoarsely,
suddenly holding up his hand warningly. They listened intently.  It was evident from the creaking
of the stairs that someone was crawling up them.  Philpot instantly disappeared.  Harlow lifted
up the pail of whitewash and set it down again noisily.

'I think we'd better 'ave the steps and the plank over this side, Easton,' he said in a loud voice.

'Yes.  I think that'll be the best way,' replied Easton.

While they were arranging their scaffold to do the ceiling Crass arrived on the landing.  He
made no remark at first, but walked into the room to see how many ceilings they had done.

'You'd better look alive, you chaps, he said as he went downstairs again.  'If we don't get
these ceilings finished by dinner-time, Nimrod's sure to ramp.'

'All right,' said Harlow, gruffly.  'We'll bloody soon slosh 'em over.'

'Slosh' was a very suitable word; very descriptive of the manner in which the work was done.
The cornices of the staircase ceilings were enriched with plaster ornaments.  These ceilings
were supposed to have been washed off, but as the men who were put to do that work had not
been allowed sufficient time to do it properly, the crevices of the ornaments were still filled
up with old whitewash, and by the time Harlow and Easton had 'sloshed' a lot more whitewash
on to them they were mere formless unsightly lumps of plaster.  The 'hands' who did the 'washing
off' were not to blame.  They had been hunted away from the work before it was half done.

While Harlow and Easton were distempering these ceiling, Philpot and the other hands were proceeding
with the painting in different parts of the inside of the house, and Owen, assisted by Bert,
was getting on with the work in the drawing-room, striking chalk lines and measuring and setting
out the different panels.

There were no 'political' arguments that day at dinner-time, to the disappointment of Crass,
who was still waiting for an opportunity to produce the Obscurer cutting.  After dinner, when
the others had all gone back to their work, Philpot unobtrusively returned to the kitchen and
gathered up the discarded paper wrappers in which some of the men had brought their food. 
Spreading one of these open, he shook the crumbs from the others upon it.  In this way and
by picking up particles of bread from the floor, he collected a little pile of crumbs and crusts.
To these he added some fragments that he had left from his own dinner.  He then took the parcel
upstairs and opening one of the windows threw the crumbs on to the roof of the portico.  He
had scarcely closed the window when two starlings fluttered down and began to eat.  Philpot
watching them furtively from behind the shutter.  The afternoon passed uneventfully. From one
till five seemed a very long time to most of the hands, but to Owen and his mate, who was doing
something in which they were able to feel some interest and pleasure, the time passed so rapidly
that they both regretted the approach of evening.

'Other days,' remarked Bert, 'I always keeps on wishin' it was time to go 'ome, but today seems
to 'ave gorn like lightnin'!'

After leaving off that night, all the men kept together till they arrived down town, and then
separated.  Owen went by himself: Easton, Philpot, Crass and Bundy adjourned to the 'Cricketers
Arms' to have a drink together before going home, and Slyme, who was a teetotaler, went by
himself, although he was now lodging with Easton.

'Don't wait for me,' said the latter as he went off with Crass and the others.  'I shall most
likely catch you up before you get there.'

'All right,' replied Slyme.

This evening Slyme did not take the direct road home.  He turned into the main street, and,
pausing before the window of a toy shop, examined the articles displayed therein attentively.
After some minutes he appeared to have come to a decision, and entering the shop he purchased
a baby's rattle for fourpence halfpenny.  It was a pretty toy made of white bone and coloured
wool, with a number of little bells hanging upon it, and a ring of white bone at the end of
the handle.

When he came out of the shop Slyme set out for home, this time walking rapidly.  When he entered
the house Ruth was sitting by the fire with the baby on her lap.  She looked up with an expression
of disappointment as she perceived that he was alone.

'Where's Will got to again?' she asked.

'He's gone to 'ave a drink with some of the chaps.  He said he wouldn't be long,' replied Slyme
as he put his food basket on the dresser and went upstairs to his room to wash and to change
his clothes.

When he came down again, Easton had not yet arrived.

'Everything's ready, except just to make the tea,' said Ruth, who was evidently annoyed at
the continued absence of Easton, 'so you may as well have yours now.'

'I'm in no hurry.  I'll wait a little and see if he comes.  He's sure to be here soon.'

'If you're sure you don't mind, I shall be glad if you will wait,' said Ruth, 'because it will
save me making two lots of tea.'

They waited for about half an hour, talking at intervals in a constrained, awkward way about
trivial subjects.  Then as Easton did not come, Ruth decided to serve Slyme without waiting
any longer. With this intention she laid the baby in its cot, but the child resented this arrangement
and began to cry, so she had to hold him under her left arm while she made the tea.  Seeing
her in this predicament, Slyme exclaimed, holding out his hands:

'Here, let me hold him while you do that.'

'Will you?' said Ruth, who, in spite of her instinctive dislike of the man, could not help
feeling gratified with this attention.  'Well, mind you don't let him fall.'

But the instant Slyme took hold of the child it began to cry even louder than it did when it
was put into the cradle.

'He's always like that with strangers,' apologized Ruth as she took him back again.

'Wait a minute,' said Slyme, 'I've got something upstairs in my pocket that will keep him quiet.
I'd forgotten all about it.'

He went up to his room and presently returned with the rattle.  When the baby saw the bright
colours and heard the tinkling of the bells he crowed with delight, and reached out his hands
eagerly towards it and allowed Slyme to take him without a murmur of protest.  Before Ruth
had finished making and serving the tea the man and child were on the very best of terms with
each other, so much so indeed that when Ruth had finished and went to take him again, the baby
seemed reluctant to part from Slyme, who had been dancing him in the air and tickling him in
the most delightful way.

Ruth, too, began to have a better opinion of Slyme, and felt inclined to reproach herself for
having taken such an unreasonable dislike of him at first.  He was evidently a very good sort
of fellow after all.

The baby had by this time discovered the use of the bone ring at the end of the handle of the
toy and was biting it energetically.

'It's a very beautiful rattle,' said Ruth.  'Thank you very much for it.  It's just the very
thing he wanted.'

'I heard you say the other day that he wanted something of the kind to bite on to help his
teeth through,' answered Slyme, 'and when I happened to notice that in the shop I remembered
what you said and thought I'd bring it home.'

The baby took the ring out of its mouth and shaking the rattle frantically in the air laughed
and crowed merrily, looking at Slyme.

'Dad! Dad! Dad!' he cried, holding out his arms.

Slyme and Ruth burst out laughing.

'That's not your Dad, you silly boy,' she said, kissing the child as she spoke.  'Your dad
ought to be ashamed of himself for staying out like this.  We'll give him dad, dad, dad, when
he does come home, won't we?'

But the baby only shook the rattle and rang the bells and laughed and crowed and laughed again,
louder than ever.

Chapter 19

The Filling of the Tank

Viewed from outside, the 'Cricketers Arms' was a pretentious-looking building with plate-glass
windows and a profusion of gilding.  The pilasters were painted in imitation of different marbles
and the doors grained to represent costly woods.  There were panels containing painted advertisements
of wines and spirits and beer, written in gold, and ornamented with gaudy colours.  On the
lintel over the principal entrance was inscribed in small white letters:

'A. Harpy.  Licensed to sell wines, spirits and malt liquor by retail to be consumed either
on or off the premises.'

The bar was arranged in the usual way, being divided into several compartments.  First there
was the 'Saloon Bar': on the glass of the door leading into this was fixed a printed bill:
'No four ale served in this bar.'  Next to the saloon bar was the jug and bottle department,
much appreciated by ladies who wished to indulge in a drop of gin on the quiet.  There were
also two small 'private' bars, only capable of holding two or three persons, where nothing
less than fourpennyworth of spirits or glasses of ale at threepence were served. Finally, the
public bar, the largest compartment of all.  At each end, separating it from the other departments,
was a wooden partition, painted and varnished.

Wooden forms fixed across the partitions and against the walls under the windows provided seating
accommodation for the customers.  A large automatic musical instrument--a 'penny in the slot'
polyphone--resembling a grandfather's clock in shape--stood against one of the partitions and
close up to the counter, so that those behind the bar could reach to wind it up.  Hanging on
the partition near the polyphone was a board about fifteen inches square, over the surface
of which were distributed a number of small hooks, numbered.  At the bottom of the board was
a net made of fine twine, extended by means of a semi-circular piece of wire.  In this net
several india-rubber rings about three inches in diameter were lying.  There was no table in
the place but jutting out from the other partition was a hinged flap about three feet long
by twenty inches wide, which could be folded down when not in use.  This was the shove-ha'penny
board.  The coins--old French pennies--used in playing this game were kept behind the bar and
might be borrowed on application.  On the partition, just above the shove-ha'penny board was
a neatly printed notice, framed and glazed:

                                 NOTICE

              Gentlemen using this house are requested to
                 refrain from using obscene language.

Alongside this notice were a number of gaudily-coloured bills advertising the local theatre
and the music-hall, and another of a travelling circus and menagerie, then visiting the town
and encamped on a piece of waste ground about half-way on the road to Windley.  The fittings
behind the bar, and the counter, were of polished mahogany, with silvered plate glass at the
back of the shelves.  On the shelves were rows of bottles and cut-glass decanters, gin, whisky,
brandy and wines and liqueurs of different kinds.

When Crass, Philpot, Easton and Bundy entered, the landlord, a well-fed, prosperous-looking
individual in white shirt-sleeves, and a bright maroon fancy waistcoat with a massive gold
watch-chain and a diamond ring, was conversing in an affable, friendly way with one of his
regular customers, who was sitting on the end of the seat close to the counter, a shabbily
dressed, bleary-eyed, degraded, beer-sodden, trembling wretch, who spent the greater part of
every day, and all his money, in this bar.  He was a miserable-looking wreck of a man about
thirty years of age, supposed to be a carpenter, although he never worked at that trade now.
It was commonly said that some years previously he had married a woman considerably his senior,
the landlady of a third-rate lodging-house.  This business was evidently sufficiently prosperous
to enable him to exist without working and to maintain himself in a condition of perpetual
semi-intoxication.  This besotted wretch practically lived at the 'Cricketers'.  He came regularly
very morning and sometimes earned a pint of beer by assisting the barman to sweep up the sawdust
or clean the windows.  He usually remained in the bar until closing time every night.  He was
a very good customer; not only did he spend whatever money he could get hold of himself, but
he was the cause of others spending money, for he was acquainted with most of the other regular
customers, who, knowing his impecunious condition, often stood him a drink 'for the good of
the house'.

The only other occupant of the public bar--previous to the entrance of Crass and his mates--was
a semi-drunken man, who appeared to be a house-painter, sitting on the form near the shove-ha'penny
board.  He was wearing a battered bowler hat and the usual shabby clothes.  This individual
had a very thin, pale face, with a large, high-bridged nose, and bore a striking resemblance
to the portraits of the first Duke of Wellington.  He was not a regular customer here, having
dropped in casually about two o'clock and had remained ever since.  He was beginning to show
the effects of the drink he had taken during that time.

As Crass and the others came in they were hailed with enthusiasm by the landlord and the Besotted
Wretch, while the semi-drunk workman regarded them with fishy eyes and stupid curiosity.

'Wot cheer, Bob?' said the landlord, affably, addressing Crass, and nodding familiarly to the
others.  ''Ow goes it?'

'All reet me ole dear!' replied Crass, jovially.  ''Ow's yerself?'

'A.1,' replied the 'Old Dear', getting up from his chair in readiness to execute their orders.

'Well, wot's it to be?' inquired Philpot of the others generally.

'Mine's a pint o' beer,' said Crass.

'Half for me,' said Bundy.

'Half o' beer for me too,' replied Easton.

'That's one pint, two 'arves, and a pint o' porter for meself,' said Philpot, turning and addressing
the Old Dear.

While the landlord was serving these drinks the Besotted Wretch finished his beer and set the
empty glass down on the counter, and Philpot observing this, said to him:

''Ave one along o' me?'

'I don't mind if I do,' replied the other.

When the drinks were served, Philpot, instead of paying for them, winked significantly at the
landlord, who nodded silently and unobtrusively made an entry in an account book that was lying
on one of the shelves.  Although it was only Monday and he had been at work all the previous
week, Philpot was already stony broke.  This was accounted for by the fact that on Saturday
he had paid his landlady something on account of the arrears of board and lodging money that
had accumulated while he was out of work; and he had also paid the Old Dear four shillings
for drinks obtained on tick during the last week.

'Well, 'ere's the skin orf yer nose,' said Crass, nodding to Philpot, and taking a long pull
at the pint glass which the latter had handed to him.

Similar appropriate and friendly sentiments were expressed by the others and suitably acknowledged
by Philpot, the founder of the feast.

The Old Dear now put a penny in the slot of the polyphone, and winding it up started it playing.
It was some unfamiliar tune, but when the Semi-drunk Painter heard it he rose unsteadily to
his feet and began shuffling and dancing about, singing:

                'Oh, we'll inwite you to the wedding,
                   An' we'll 'ave a glorious time!
                Where the boys an' girls is a-dancing,
                  An' we'll all get drunk on wine.'

''Ere! that's quite enough o' that!' cried the landlord, roughly.  'We don't want that row 'ere.'

The Semi-drunk stopped, and looking stupidly at the Old Dear, sank abashed on to the seat again.

'Well, we may as well sit as stand--for a few minutes,' remarked Crass, suiting the action
to the word.  The others followed his example.

At frequent intervals the bar was entered by fresh customers, most of them working men on their
way home, who ordered and drank their pint or half-pint of ale or porter and left at once.
Bundy began reading the advertisement of the circus and menageries and a conversation ensued
concerning the wonderful performances of the trained animals. The Old Dear said that some of
them had as much sense as human beings, and the manner with which he made this statement implied
that he thought it was a testimonial to the sagacity of the brutes.  He further said that he
had heard--a little earlier in the evening--a rumour that one of the wild animals, a bear or
something, had broken loose and was at present at large.  This was what he had heard--he didn't
know if it were true or not.  For his own part he didn't believe it, and his hearers agreed
that it was highly improbable. Nobody ever knew how these silly yarns got about.

Presently the Besotted Wretch got up and, taking the india-rubber rings out of the net with
a trembling hand, began throwing them one at a time at the hooks on the board.  The rest of
the company watched him with much interest, laughing when he made a very bad shot and applauding
when he scored.

''E's a bit orf tonight,' remarked Philpot aside to Easton, 'but as a rule 'e's a fair knockout
at it.  Throws a splendid ring.'

The Semidrunk regarded the proceedings of the Besotted Wretch with an expression of profound
contempt.

'You can't play for nuts,' he said scornfully.

'Can't I?  I can play you, anyway.'

'Right you are!  I'll play you for drinks round!' cried the Semi-drunk.

For a moment the Besotted Wretch hesitated.  He had not money enough to pay for drinks round.
However, feeling confident of winning, he replied:

'Come on then.  What's it to be?  Fifty up?'

'Anything you like!  Fifty or a 'undred or a bloody million!'

'Better make it fifty for a start.'

'All right!'

'You play first if you like.'

'All right,' agreed the Semi-drunk, anxious to distinguish himself. Holding the six rings in
his left hand, the man stood in the middle of the floor at a distance of about three yards
from the board, with his right foot advanced.  Taking one of the rings between the forefinger
and thumb of his right hand, and closing his left eye, he carefully 'sighted' the centre hook,
No. 13; then he slowly extended his arm to its full length in the direction of the board: then
bending his elbow, he brought his hand back again until it nearly touched his chin, and slowly
extended his arm again.  He repeated these movements several times, whilst the others watched
with bated breath.  Getting it right at last he suddenly shot the ring at the board, but it
did not go on No. 13; it went over the partition into the private bar.

This feat was greeted with a roar of laughter.  The player stared at the board in a dazed way,
wondering what had become of the ring.  When someone in the next bar threw it over the partition
again, he realized what had happened and, turning to the company with a sickly smile, remarked:

'I ain't got properly used to this board yet: that's the reason of it.'

He now began throwing the other rings at the board rather wildly, without troubling to take
aim.  One struck the partition to the right of the board: one to the left: one underneath:
one went over the counter, one on the floor, the other--the last--hit the board, and amid a
shout of applause, caught on the centre hook No. 13, the highest number it was possible to
scare with a single throw.

'I shall be all right now that I've got the range,' observed the Semi-drunk as he made way
for his opponent.

'You'll see something now,' whispered Philpot to Easton. 'This bloke is a dandy!'

The Besotted Wretch took up his position and with an affectation of carelessness began throwing
the rings.  It was really a remarkable exhibition, for notwithstanding the fact that his hand
trembled like the proverbial aspen leaf, he succeeded in striking the board almost in the centre
every time; but somehow or other most of them failed to catch on the hooks and fell into the
net.  When he finished his innings, he had only scored 4, two of the rings having caught on
the No. 2 hook.

''Ard lines,' remarked Bundy as he finished his beer and put the glass down on the counter.

'Drink up and 'ave another,' said Easton as he drained his own glass.

'I don't mind if I do,' replied Crass, pouring what remained of the pint down his throat.

Philpot's glass had been empty for some time.

'Same again,' said Easton, addressing the Old Dear and putting six pennies on the counter.

By this time the Semi-drunk had again opened fire on the board, but he seemed to have lost
the range, for none of the rings scored.

They flew all over the place, and he finished his innings without increasing his total.

The Besotted Wretch now sailed in and speedily piled up 37.  Then the Semi-drunk had another
go, and succeeded in getting 8.  His case appeared hopeless, but his opponent in his next innings
seemed to go all to pieces.  Twice he missed the board altogether, and when he did hit it he
failed to score, until the very last throw, when he made 1. Then the Semi-drunk went in again
and got 10.

The scores were now:

        Besotted Wretch ........................ 42
        Semi-drunk ............................. 31

So far it was impossible to foresee the end.  It was anybody's game. Crass became so excited
that he absentmindedly opened his mouth and shot his second pint down into his stomach with
a single gulp, and Bundy also drained his glass and called upon Philpot and Easton to drink
up and have another, which they accordingly did.

While the Semi-drunk was having his next innings, the Besotted Wretch placed a penny on the
counter and called for a half a pint, which he drank in the hope of steadying his nerves for
a great effort.  His opponent meanwhile threw the rings at the board and missed it every time,
but all the same he scored, for one ring, after striking the partition about a foot above the
board, fell down and caught on the hook.

The other man now began his innings, playing very carefully, and nearly every ring scored.
As he played, the others uttered exclamations of admiration and called out the result of every
throw.

'One!'

'One again!'

'Miss!  No!  Got 'im!  Two!'

'Miss!'

'Miss!'

'Four!'

The Semi-drunk accepted his defeat with a good grace, and after explaining that he was a bit
out of practice, placed a shilling on the counter and invited the company to give their orders.
Everyone asked for 'the same again,' but the landlord served Easton, Bundy and the Besotted
Wretch with pints instead of half-pints as before, so there was no change out of the shilling.

'You know, there's a great deal in not bein' used to the board,' said the Semi-drunk.

'There's no disgrace in bein' beat by a man like 'im, mate,' said Philpot.  ''E's a champion!'

'Yes, there's no mistake about it.  'E throws a splendid ring!' said Bundy.

This was the general verdict.  The Semi-drunk, though beaten, was not disgraced: and he was
so affected by the good feeling manifested by the company that he presently produced a sixpence
and insisted on paying for another half-pint all round.

Crass had gone outside during this conversation, but he returned in a few minutes.  'I feel
a bit easier now,' he remarked with a laugh as he took the half-pint glass that the Semi-drunk
passed to him with a shaking hand.  One after the other, within a few minutes, the rest followed
Crass's example, going outside and returning almost immediately: and as Bundy, who was the
last to return, came back he exclaimed:

'Let's 'ave a game of shove-'a'penny.'

'All right,' said Easton, who was beginning to feel reckless.  'But drink up first, and let's
'ave another.'

He had only sevenpence left, just enough to pay for another pint for Crass and half a pint
for everyone else.

The shove-ha'penny table was a planed mahogany board with a number of parallel lines scored
across it.  The game is played by placing the coin at the end of the board--the rim slightly
overhanging the edge--and striking it with the back part of the palm of the hand, regulating
the force of the blow according to the distance it is desired to drive the coin.

'What's become of Alf tonight?' inquired Philpot of the landlord whilst Easton and Bundy were
playing.  Alf was the barman.

''E's doing a bit of a job down in the cellar; some of the valves gone a bit wrong.  But the
missus is comin' down to lend me a hand presently.  'Ere she is now.'

The landlady--who at this moment entered through the door at the back of the bar--was a large
woman with a highly-coloured countenance and a tremendous bust, incased in a black dress with
a shot silk blouse. She had several jewelled gold rings on the fingers of each fat white hand,
and a long gold watch guard hung round her fat neck.  She greeted Crass and Philpot with condescension,
smiling affably upon them.

Meantime the game of shove-ha'penny proceeded merrily, the Semi-drunk taking a great interest
in it and tendering advice to both players impartially.  Bundy was badly beaten, and then Easton
suggested that it was time to think of going home.  This proposal--slightly modified--met with
general approval, the modification being suggested by Philpot, who insisted on standing one
final round of drinks before they went.

While they were pouring this down their throats, Crass took a penny from his waistcoat pocket
and put it in the slot of the polyphone. The landlord put a fresh disc into it and wound it
up and it began to play 'The Boys of the Bulldog Breed.'  The Semi-drunk happened to know the
words of the chorus of this song, and when he heard the music he started unsteadily to his
feet and with many fierce looks and gestures began to roar at the top of his voice:

        'They may build their ships, my lads,
        And try to play the game,
        But they can't build the boys of the Bulldog breed,
        Wot made ole Hingland's--'

''Ere! Stop that, will yer?' cried the Old Dear, fiercely.  'I told you once before that I
don't allow that sort of thing in my 'ouse!'

The Semi-drunk stopped in confusion.

'I don't mean no 'arm,' he said unsteadily, appealing to the company.

'I don't want no chin from you!' said the Old Dear with a ferocious scowl.  'If you want to
make that row you can go somewheres else, and the sooner you goes the better.  You've been
'ere long enough.'

This was true.  The man had been there long enough to spend every penny he had been possessed
of when he first came: he had no money left now, a fact that the observant and experienced
landlord had divined some time ago.  He therefore wished to get rid of the fellow before the
drink affected him further and made him helplessly drunk. The Semi-drunk listened with indignation
and wrath to the landlord's insulting words.

'I shall go when the bloody 'ell I like!' he shouted.  'I shan't ask you nor nobody else! 
Who the bloody 'ell are you?  You're nobody! See? Nobody!  It's orf the likes of me that you
gets your bloody livin'!  I shall stop 'ere as long as I bloody well like, and if you don't
like it you can go to 'ell!'

'Oh!  Yer will, will yer?' said the Old Dear.  'We'll soon see about that.'  And, opening the
door at the back of the bar, he roared out:

'Alf!'

'Yes, sir,' replied a voice, evidently from the basement.

'Just come up 'ere.'

'All right,' replied the voice, and footsteps were heard ascending some stairs.

'You'll see some fun in a minute,' gleefully remarked Crass to Easton.

The polyphone continued to play 'The Boys of the Bulldog Breed.'

Philpot crossed over to the Semi-drunk.  'Look 'ere, old man,' he whispered, 'take my tip and
go 'ome quietly.  You'll only git the worse of it, you know.'

'Not me, mate,' replied the other, shaking his head doggedly.  ''Ere I am, and 'ere I'm goin'
to bloody well stop.'

'No, you ain't,' replied Philpot coaxingly. ''Look 'ere. I'll tell you wot we'll do.  You 'ave
just one more 'arf-pint along of me, and then we'll both go 'ome together.  I'll see you safe
'ome.'

'See me safe 'ome! Wotcher mean?' indignantly demanded the other.  'Do you think I'm drunk or wot?'

'No.  Certainly not,' replied Philpot, hastily.  'You're all right, as right as I am myself.
But you know wot I mean.  Let's go 'ome.  You don't want to stop 'ere all night, do you?'

By this time Alf had arrived at the door of the back of the bar.  He was a burly young man
about twenty-two or twenty-three years of age.

'Put it outside,' growled the landlord, indicating the culprit.

The barman instantly vaulted over the counter, and, having opened wide the door leading into
the street, he turned to the half-drunken man and, jerking his thumb in the direction of the
door, said:

'Are yer goin'?'

'I'm goin' to 'ave 'arf a pint along of this genelman first--'

'Yes.  It's all right,' said Philpot to the landlord.  'Let's 'ave two 'arf-pints, and say
no more about it.'

'You mind your own business,' shouted the landlord, turning savagely on him.  ''E'll get no
more 'ere!  I don't want no drunken men in my 'ouse.  Who asked you to interfere?'

'Now then!' exclaimed the barman to the cause of the trouble, 'Outside!'

'Not me!' said the Semi-drunk firmly.  'Not before I've 'ad my 'arf--'

But before he could conclude, the barman had clutched him by the collar, dragged him violently
to the door and shot him into the middle of the road, where he fell in a heap almost under
the wheels of a brewer's dray that happened to be passing.  This accomplished, Alf shut the
door and retired behind the counter again.

'Serve 'im bloody well right,' said Crass.

'I couldn't 'elp laughin' when I seen 'im go flyin' through the bloody door,' said Bundy.

'You oughter 'ave more sense than to go interferin' like that,' said Crass to Philpot.  'It
was nothing to do with you.'

Philpot made no reply.  He was standing with his back to the others, peeping out into the street
over the top of the window casing.  Then he opened the door and went out into the street. 
Crass and the others--through the window--watched him assist the Semi-drunk to his feet and
rub some of the dirt off his clothes, and presently after some argument they saw the two go
away together arm in arm.

Crass and the others laughed, and returned to their half-finished drinks.

'Why, old Joe ain't drunk 'ardly 'arf of 'is!' cried Easton, seeing Philpot's porter on the
counter.  'Fancy going away like that!'

'More fool 'im,' growled Crass.  'There was no need for it: the man's all right.'

The Besotted Wretch gulped his beer down as quickly as he could, with his eyes fixed greedily
on Philpot's glass. He had just finished his own and was about to suggest that it was a pity
to waste the porter when Philpot unexpectedly reappeared.

'Hullo!  What 'ave you done with 'im?' inquired Crass.

'I think 'e'll be all right,' replied Philpot.  'He wouldn't let me go no further with 'im:
said if I didn't go away, 'e'd go for me!  But I believe 'e'll be all right.  I think the fall
sobered 'im a bit.'

'Oh, 'e's all right,' said Crass offhandedly.  'There's nothing the matter with 'im.'

Philpot now drank his porter, and bidding 'good night' to the Old Dear, the landlady and the
Besotted Wretch, they all set out for home. As they went along the dark and lonely thoroughfare
that led over the hill to Windley, they heard from time to time the weird roaring of the wild
animals in the menagerie that was encamped in the adjacent field. Just as they reached a very
gloomy and deserted part, they suddenly observed a dark object in the middle of the road some
distance in front of them. It seemed to be a large animal of some kind and was coming slowly
and stealthily towards them.

They stopped, peering in a half-frightened way through the darkness. The animal continued to
approach.  Bundy stooped down to the ground, groping about in search of a stone, and--with
the exception of Crass, who was too frightened to move--the others followed his example. They
found several large stones and stood waiting for the creature--whatever it was--to come a little
nearer so as to get a fair shot at it.  They were about to let fly when the creature fell over
on its side and moaned as if in pain.  Observing this, the four men advanced cautiously towards
it.  Bundy struck a match and held it over the prostrate figure.  It was the Semi-drunk.

After parting from Philpot, the poor wretch had managed to walk all right for some distance.
As Philpot had remarked, the fall had to some extent sobered him; but he had not gone very
far before the drink he had taken began to affect him again and he had fallen down. Finding
it impossible to get up, he began crawling along on his hands and knees, unconscious of the
fact that he was travelling in the wrong direction. Even this mode of progression failed him
at last, and he would probably have been run over if they had not found him.  They raised him
up, and Philpot, exhorting him to 'pull himself together' inquired where he lived.  The man
had sense enough left to be able to tell them his address, which was fortunately at Windley,
where they all resided.

Bundy and Philpot took him home, separating from Crass and Easton at the corner of the street
where both the latter lived.

Crass felt very full and satisfied with himself. He had had six and a half pints of beer, and
had listened to two selections on the polyphone at a total cost of one penny.

Easton had but a few yards to go before reaching his own house after parting from Crass, but
he paused directly he heard the latter's door close, and leaning against a street lamp yielded
to the feeling of giddiness and nausea that he had been fighting against all the way home.
All the inanimate objects around him seemed to be in motion. The lights of the distant street
lamps appeared to be floating about the pavement and the roadway rose and fell like the surface
of a troubled sea.  He searched his pockets for his handkerchief and having found it wiped
his mouth, inwardly congratulating himself that Crass was not there to see him.  Resuming his
walk, after a few minutes he reached his own home.  As he passed through, the gate closed of
itself after him, clanging loudly.  He went rather unsteadily up the narrow path that led to
his front door and entered.

The baby was asleep in the cradle.  Slyme had gone up to his own room, and Ruth was sitting
sewing by the fireside.  The table was still set for two persons, for she had not yet taken
her tea.

Easton lurched in noisily.  ''Ello, old girl!' he cried, throwing his dinner basket carelessly
on the floor with an affectation of joviality and resting his hands on the table to support
himself.  'I've come at last, you see.'

Ruth left off sewing, and, letting her hands fall into her lap, sat looking at him.  She had
never seen him like this before.  His face was ghastly pale, the eyes bloodshot and red-rimmed,
the lips tremulous and moist, and the ends of the hair of his fair moustache, stuck together
with saliva and stained with beer, hung untidily round his mouth in damp clusters.

Perceiving that she did not speak or smile, Easton concluded that she was angry and became
grave himself.

'I've come at last, you see, my dear; better late than never.'

He found it very difficult to speak plainly, for his lips trembled and refused to form the words.

'I don't know so much about that,' said Ruth, inclined to cry and trying not to let him see
the pity she could not help feeling for him. 'A nice state you're in.  You ought to be ashamed
of yourself.'

Easton shook his head and laughed foolishly.  'Don't be angry, Ruth. It's no good, you know.'

He walked clumsily towards her, still leaning on the table to steady himself.

'Don't be angry,' he mumbled as he stooped over her, putting his arm round her neck and his
face close to hers.  'It's no good being angry, you know, dear.'

She shrank away, shuddering with involuntary disgust as he pressed his wet lips and filthy
moustache upon her mouth.  His fetid breath, foul with the smell of tobacco and beer, and the
odour of the stale tobacco smoke that exuded from his clothes filled her with loathing.  He
kissed her repeatedly and when at last he released her she hastily wiped her face with her
handkerchief and shivered.

Easton said he did not want any tea, and went upstairs to bed almost immediately.  Ruth did
not want any tea either now, although she had been very hungry before he came home.  She sat
up very late, sewing, and when at length she did go upstairs she found him lying on his back,
partly undressed on the outside of the bedclothes, with his mouth wide open, breathing stertorously.

Chapter 20

The Forty Thieves.  The Battle: Brigands versus Bandits

This is an even more unusually dull and uninteresting chapter, and introduces several matters
that may appear to have nothing to do with the case.  The reader is nevertheless entreated
to peruse it, because it contains certain information necessary to an understanding of this
history.

The town of Mugsborough was governed by a set of individuals called the Municipal Council.
Most of these 'representatives of the people' were well-to-do or retired tradesmen.  In the
opinion of the inhabitants of Mugsborough, the fact that a man had succeeded in accumulating
money in business was a clear demonstration of his fitness to be entrusted with the business
of the town.

Consequently, when that very able and successful man of business Mr George Rushton was put
up for election to the Council he was returned by a large majority of the votes of the working
men who thought him an ideal personage...

These Brigands did just as they pleased.  No one ever interfered with them.  They never consulted
the ratepayers in any way.  Even at election time they did not trouble to hold meetings: each
one of them just issued a kind of manifesto setting forth his many noble qualities and calling
upon the people for their votes: and the latter never failed to respond.  They elected the
same old crew time after time...

The Brigands committed their depredations almost unhindered, for the voters were engaged in
the Battle of Life.  Take the public park for instance.  Like so many swine around a trough--they
were so busily engaged in this battle that most of them had no time to go to the park, or they
might have noticed that there were not so many costly plants there as there should have been.
And if they had inquired further they would have discovered that nearly all the members of
the Town Council had very fine gardens.  There was reason for these gardens being so grand,
for the public park was systematically robbed of its best to make them so.

There was a lake in the park where large numbers of ducks and geese were kept at the ratepayers'
expense.  In addition to the food provided for these fowl with public money, visitors to the
park used to bring them bags of biscuits and bread crusts.  When the ducks and geese were nicely
fattened the Brigands used to carry them off and devour them at home.  When they became tired
of eating duck or goose, some of the Councillors made arrangements with certain butchers and
traded away the birds for meat.

One of the most energetic members of the Band was Mr Jeremiah Didlum, the house-furnisher,
who did a large hire system trade.  He had an extensive stock of second-hand furniture that
he had resumed possession of when the unfortunate would-be purchasers failed to pay the instalments
regularly.  Other of the second-hand things had been purchased for a fraction of their real
value at Sheriff's sales or from people whom misfortune or want of employment had reduced to
the necessity of selling their household possessions.

Another notable member of the Band was Mr Amos Grinder, who had practically monopolized the
greengrocery trade and now owned nearly all the fruiterers' shops in the town.  As for the
other shops, if they did not buy their stocks from him--or, rather, the company of which he
was managing director and principal shareholder--if these other fruiterers and greengrocers
did not buy their stuff from his company, he tried to smash them by opening branches in their
immediate neighbourhood and selling below cost.  He was a self-made man: an example of what
may be accomplished by cunning and selfishness.

Then there was the Chief of the Band--Mr Adam Sweater, the Mayor.  He was always the Chief,
although he was not always Mayor, it being the rule that the latter 'honour' should be enjoyed
by all the members of the Band in turn.  A bright 'honour', forsooth! to be the first citizen
in a community composed for the most part of ignorant semi-imbeciles, slaves, slave-drivers
and psalm-singing hypocrites. Mr Sweater was the managing director and principal shareholder
of a large drapery business in which he had amassed a considerable fortune. This was not very
surprising, considering that he paid none of his workpeople fair wages and many of them no
wages at all.  He employed a great number of girls and young women who were supposed to be
learning dressmaking, mantle-making or millinery.  These were all indentured apprentices, some
of whom had paid premiums of from five to ten pounds.  They were 'bound' for three years. 
For the first two years they received no wages: the third year they got a shilling or eightpence
a week.  At the end of the third year they usually got the sack, unless they were willing to
stay on as improvers at from three shillings to four and sixpence per week.

They worked from half past eight in the morning till eight at night, with an interval of an
hour for dinner, and at half past four they ceased work for fifteen minutes for tea.  This
was provided by the firm--half a pint for each girl, but they had to bring their own milk and
sugar and bread and butter.

Few of the girls ever learned their trades thoroughly.  Some were taught to make sleeves; others
cuffs or button-holes, and so on.  The result was that in a short time each one became very
expert and quick at one thing; and although their proficiency in this one thing would never
enable them to earn a decent living, it enabled Mr Sweater to make money during the period
of their apprenticeship, and that was all he cared about.

Occasionally a girl of intelligence and spirit would insist on the fulfilment of the terms
of her indentures, and sometimes the parents would protest.  If this were persisted in those
girls got on better: but even these were turned to good account by the wily Sweater, who induced
the best of them to remain after their time was up by paying them what appeared--by contrast
with the others girls' money--good wages, sometimes even seven or eight shillings a week! and
liberal promises of future advancement.  These girls then became a sort of reserve who could
be called up to crush any manifestation of discontent on the part of the leading hands.

The greater number of the girls, however, submitted tamely to the conditions imposed upon them.
They were too young to realize the wrong that was being done them.  As for their parents, it
never occurred to them to doubt the sincerity of so good a man as Mr Sweater, who was always
prominent in every good and charitable work.

At the expiration of the girl's apprenticeship, if the parents complained of her want of proficiency,
the pious Sweater would attribute it to idleness or incapacity, and as the people were generally
poor he seldom or never had any trouble with them.  This was how he fulfilled the unctuous
promise made to the confiding parents at the time the girl was handed over to his tender mercy--that
he would 'make a woman of her'.

This method of obtaining labour by false pretences and without payment, which enabled him to
produce costly articles for a mere fraction of the price for which they were eventually sold,
was adopted in other departments of his business.  He procured shop assistants of both sexes
on the same terms.  A youth was indentured, usually for five years, to be 'Made a Man of and
'Turned out fit to take a Position in any House'. If possible, a premium, five, ten, or twenty
pounds--according to their circumstances--would be extracted from the parents.  For the first
three years, no wages: after that, perhaps two or three shillings a week.

At the end of the five years the work of 'Making a Man of him' would be completed.  Mr Sweater
would then congratulate him and assure him that he was qualified to assume a 'position' in
any House but regret that there was no longer any room for him in his.  Business was so bad.
Still, if the Man wished he might stay on until he secured a better 'position' and, as a matter
of generosity, although he did not really need the Man's services, he would pay him ten shillings
per week!

Provided he was not addicted to drinking, smoking, gambling or the Stock Exchange, or going
to theatres, the young man's future was thus assured.  Even if he were unsuccessful in his
efforts to obtain another position he could save a portion of his salary and eventually commence
business on his own account.

However, the branch of Mr Sweater's business to which it is desired to especially direct the
reader's attention was the Homeworkers Department.  He employed a large number of women making
ladies' blouses, fancy aprons and children's pinafores.  Most of these articles were disposed
of wholesale in London and elsewhere, but some were retailed at 'Sweaters' Emporium' in Mugsborough
and at the firm's other retail establishments throughout the county.  Many of the women workers
were widows with children, who were glad to obtain any employment that did not take hem away
from their homes and families.

The blouses were paid for at tie rate of from two shillings to five shillings a dozen, the
women having to provide their own machine and cotton, besides calling for and delivering the
work.  These poor women were able to clear from six to eight shillings a week: and to earn
even that they had to work almost incessantly for fourteen or sixteen hours a day.  There was
no time for cooling and very little to cook, for they lived principally on bread and margarine
and tea.  Their homes were squalid, their children half-starved and raggedly clothed in grotesque
garments hastily fashioned out of the cast-off clothes of charitable neighbours.

But it was not in vain that these women toiled every weary day until exhaustion compelled them
to case.  It was not in vain that they passed their cheerless lives bending with aching shoulders
over the thankless work that barely brought them bread.  It was not in vain that they and their
children went famished and in rags, for after all, the principal object of their labour was
accomplished: the Good Cause was advanced. Mr Sweater waxed rich and increased in goods and
respectability.

Of course, none of those women were COMPELLED to engage in that glorious cause.  No one is
compelled to accept any particular set of conditions in a free country like this.  Mr Trafaim--the
manager of Sweater's Homework Department--always put the matter before them in the plainest,
fairest possible way.  There was the work: that was the figure!  And those who didn't like
it could leave it.  There was no compulsion.

Sometimes some perverse creature belonging to that numerous class who are too lazy to work
DID leave it!  But as the manager said, there were plenty of others who were only too glad
to take it.  In fact, such was the enthusiasm amongst these women--especially such of them
as had little children to provide for--and such was their zeal for the Cause, that some of
them have been known to positively beg to be allowed to work!

By these and similar means Adam Sweater had contrived to lay up for himself a large amount
of treasure upon earth, besides attaining undoubted respectability; for that he was respectable
no one questioned.  He went to chapel twice every Sunday, his obese figure arrayed in costly
apparel, consisting--with other things--of grey trousers, a long garment called a frock-coat,
a tall silk hat, a quantity of jewellery and a morocco-bound gilt-edged Bible.  He was an official
of some sort of the Shining Light Chapel.  His name appeared in nearly every published list
of charitable subscriptions.  No starving wretch had ever appealed to him in vain for a penny
soup ticket.

Small wonder that when this good and public-spirited man offered his services to the town--free
of charge--the intelligent working men of Mugsborough accepted his offer with enthusiastic
applause.  The fact that he had made money in business was a proof of his intellectual capacity.
His much-advertised benevolence was a guarantee that his abilities would be used to further
not his own private interests, but the interests of every section of the community, especially
those of the working classes, of whom the majority of his constituents was composed.

As for the shopkeepers, they were all so absorbed in their own business--so busily engaged
chasing their employees, adding up their accounts, and dressing themselves up in feeble imitation
of the 'Haristocracy'--that they were incapable of taking a really intelligent interest in
anything else.  They thought of the Town Council as a kind of Paradise reserved exclusively
for jerry-builders and successful tradesmen.  Possibly, some day, if they succeeded in making
money, they might become town councillors themselves! but in the meantime public affairs were
no particular concern of theirs.  So some of them voted for Adam Sweater because he was a Liberal
and some of them voted against him for the same 'reason'.

Now and then, when details of some unusually scandalous proceeding of the Council's leaked
out, the townspeople--roused for a brief space from their customary indifference--would discuss
the matter in a casual, half-indignant, half-amused, helpless sort of way; but always as if
it were something that did not directly concern them.  It was during some such nine days' wonder
that the title of 'The Forty Thieves' was bestowed on the members of the Council by their semi-imbecile
constituents, who, not possessing sufficient intelligence to devise means of punishing the
culprits, affected to regard the manoeuvres of the Brigands as a huge joke.

There was only one member of the Council who did not belong to the Band--Councillor Weakling,
a retired physician; but unfortunately he also was a respectable man.  When he saw something
going forwards that he did not think was right, he protested and voted against it and then--he
collapsed!  There was nothing of the low agitator about HIM. As for the Brigands, they laughed
at his protests and his vote did not matter.

With this one exception, the other members of the band were very similar in character to Sweater,
Rushton, Didlum and Grinder.  They had all joined the Band with the same objects, self-glorification
and the advancement of their private interests.  These were the real reasons why they besought
the ratepayers to elect them to the Council, but of course none of them ever admitted that
such was the case.  No! When these noble-minded altruists offered their services to the town
they asked the people to believe that they were actuated by a desire to give their time and
abilities for the purpose of furthering the interests of Others, which was much the same as
asking them to believe that it is possible for the leopard to change his spots.

Owing to the extraordinary apathy of the other inhabitants, the Brigands were able to carry
out their depredations undisturbed. Daylight robberies were of frequent occurrence.

For many years these Brigands had looked with greedy eyes upon the huge profits of the Gas
Company.  They thought it was a beastly shame that those other bandits should be always raiding
the town and getting clear away with such rich spoils.

At length--about two years ago--after much study and many private consultations, a plan of
campaign was evolved; a secret council of war was held, presided over by Mr Sweater, and the
Brigands formed themselves into an association called 'The Mugsborough Electric Light Supply
and Installation Coy. Ltd.', and bound themselves by a solemn oath to do their best to drive
the Gas Works Bandits out of the town and to capture the spoils at present enjoyed by the latter
for themselves.

There was a large piece of ground, the property of the town, that was a suitable site for the
works; so in their character of directors of the Electric Light Coy. they offered to buy this
land from the Municipality--or, in other words, from themselves--for about half its value.

At the meeting of the Town Council when this offer was considered, all the members present,
with the solitary exception of Dr Weakling, being shareholders in the newly formed company,
Councillor Rushton moved a resolution in favour of accepting it.  He said that every encouragement
should be given to the promoters of the Electric Light Coy., those public-spirited citizens
who had come forward and were willing to risk their capital in an undertaking that would be
a benefit to every class of residents in the town that they all loved so well.  (Applause.)
There could be no doubt that the introduction of the electric light would be a great addition
to the attractions of Mugsborough, but there was another and more urgent reason that disposed
him to do whatever he could to encourage the Company to proceed with this work. Unfortunately,
as was usual at that time of the year (Mr Rushton's voice trembled with emotion) the town was
full of unemployed.  (The Mayor, Alderman Sweater, and all the other Councillors shook their
heads sadly; they were visibly affected.) There was no doubt that the starting of that work
at that time would be an inestimable boon to the working-classes.  As the representative of
a working-class ward he was in favour of accepting the offer of the Company.  (Hear. Hear.)

Councillor Didlum seconded. In his opinion, it would be nothing short of a crime to oppose
anything that would provide work for the unemployed.

Councillor Weakling moved that the offer be refused.  (Shame.)  He admitted that the electric
light would be an improvement to the town, and in view of the existing distress he would be
glad to see the work started, but the price mentioned was altogether too low.  It was not more
than half the value of the land.  (Derisive laughter.)

Councillor Grinder said he was astonished at the attitude taken up by Councillor Weakling.
In his (Grinder's) opinion it was disgraceful that a member of the council should deliberately
try to wreck a project which would do so much towards relieving the unemployed.

The Mayor, Alderman Sweater, said that he could not allow the amendment to be discussed until
it was seconded: if there were no seconder he would put the original motion.

There was no seconder, because everyone except Weakling was in favour of the resolution, which
was carried amid loud cheers, and the representatives of the ratepayers proceeded to the consideration
of the next business.

Councillor Didlum proposed that the duty on all coal brought into the borough be raised from
two shillings to three shillings per ton.

Councillor Rushton seconded.  The largest consumer of coal was the Gas Coy., and, considering
the great profits made by that company, they were quite justified in increasing the duty to
the highest figure the Act permitted.

After a feeble protest from Weakling, who said it would only increase the price of gas and
coal without interfering with the profits of the Gas Coy., this was also carried, and after
some other business had been transacted, the Band dispersed.

That meeting was held two years ago, and since that time the Electric Light Works had been
built and the war against the gasworks carried on vigorously.  After several encounters, in
which they lost a few customers and a portion of the public lighting, the Gasworks Bandits
retreated out of the town and entrenched themselves in a strong position beyond the borough
boundary, where they erected a number of gasometers.  They were thus enabled to pour gas into
the town at long range without having to pay the coal dues.

This masterly stratagem created something like a panic in the ranks of the Forty Thieves. 
At the end of two years they found themselves exhausted with the protracted campaign, their
movements hampered by a lot of worn-out plant and antiquated machinery, and harassed on every
side by the lower charges of the Gas Coy.  They were reluctantly constrained to admit that
the attempt to undermine the Gasworks was a melancholy failure, and that the Mugsborough Electric
Light and Installation Coy. was a veritable white elephant.  They began to ask themselves what
they should do with it; and some of them even urged unconditional surrender, or an appeal to
the arbitration of the Bankruptcy Court.

In the midst of all the confusion and demoralization there was, however, one man who did not
lose his presence of mind, who in this dark hour of disaster remained calm and immovable, and
like a vast mountain of flesh reared his head above the storm, whose mighty intellect perceived
a way to turn this apparently hopeless defeat into a glorious victory.  That man was Adam Sweater,
the Chief of the Band.

Chapter 21

The Reign of Terror.  The Great Money Trick

During the next four weeks the usual reign of terror continued at 'The Cave'.  The men slaved
like so many convicts under the vigilant surveillance of Crass, Misery and Rushton.  No one
felt free from observation for a single moment.  It happened frequently that a man who was
working alone--as he thought--on turning round would find Hunter or Rushton standing behind
him: or one would look up from his work to catch sight of a face watching him through a door
or a window or over the banisters.  If they happened to be working in a room on the ground
floor, or at a window on any floor, they knew that both Rushton and Hunter were in the habit
of hiding among the trees that surrounded the house, and spying upon them thus.

There was a plumber working outside repairing the guttering that ran round the bottom edge
of the roof.  This poor wretch's life was a perfect misery: he fancied he saw Hunter or Rushton
in every bush.  He had two ladders to work from, and since these ladders had been in use Misery
had thought of a new way of spying on the men.  Finding that he never succeeded in catching
anyone doing anything wrong when he entered the house by one of the doors, Misery adopted the
plan of crawling up one of the ladders, getting in through one of the upper windows and creeping
softly downstairs and in and out of the rooms. Even then he never caught anyone, but that did
not matter, for he accomplished his principal purpose--every man seemed afraid to cease working
for even an instant.

The result of all this was, of course, that the work progressed rapidly towards completion.
The hands grumbled and cursed, but all the same every man tore into it for all he was worth.
Although he did next to nothing himself, Crass watched and urged on the others.  He was 'in
charge of the job': he knew that unless he succeeded in making this work pay he would not be
put in charge of another job.  On the other hand, if he did make it pay he would be given the
preference over others and be kept on as long as the firm had any work.  The firm would give
him the preference only as long as it paid them to do so.

As for the hands, each man knew that there was no chance of obtaining work anywhere else at
present; there were dozens of men out of employment already. Besides, even if there had been
a chance of getting another job somewhere else, they knew that the conditions were more or
less the same on every firm.  Some were even worse than this one. Each man knew that unless
he did as much as ever he could, Crass would report him for being slow.  They knew also that
when the job began to draw to a close the number of men employed upon it would be reduced,
and when that time came the hands who did the most work would be kept on and the slower ones
discharged.  It was therefore in the hope of being one of the favoured few that while inwardly
cursing the rest for 'tearing into it', everyone as a matter of self-preservation went and
'tore into it' themselves.

They all cursed Crass, but most of them would have been very to change places with him: and
if any one of them had been in his place they would have been compelled to act in the same
way--or lose the job.

They all reviled Hunter, but most of them would have been glad to change places with him also:
and if any one of them had been in his place they would have been compelled to do the same
things, or lose the job.

They all hated and blamed Rushton.  Yet if they had been in Rushton's place they would have
been compelled to adopt the same methods, or become bankrupt: for it is obvious that the only
way to compete successfully against other employers who are sweaters is to be a sweater yourself.
Therefore no one who is an upholder of the present system can consistently blame any of these
men.  Blame the system.

If you, reader, had been one of the hands, would you have slogged?  Or would you have preferred
to starve and see your family starve?  If you had been in Crass's place, would you have resigned
rather than do such dirty work?  If you had had Hunter's berth, would you have given it up
and voluntarily reduced yourself to the level of the hands?  If you had been Rushton, would
you rather have become bankrupt than treat your 'hands' and your customers in the same way
as your competitors treated theirs?  It may be that, so placed, you--being the noble-minded
paragon that you are--would have behaved unselfishly. But no one has any right to expect you
to sacrifice yourself for the benefit of other people who would only call you a fool for your
pains. It may be true that if any one of the hands--Owen, for instance--had been an employer
of labour, he would have done the same as other employers.  Some people seem to think that
proves that the present system is all right!  But really it only proves that the present system
compels selfishness.  One must either trample upon others or be trampled upon oneself.  Happiness
might be possible if everyone were unselfish; if everyone thought of the welfare of his neighbour
before thinking of his own.  But as there is only a very small percentage of such unselfish
people in the world, the present system has made the earth into a sort of hell.  Under the
present system there is not sufficient of anything for everyone to have enough.  Consequently
there is a fight--called by Christians the 'Battle of Life'.  In this fight some get more than
they need, some barely enough, some very little, and some none at all.  The more aggressive,
cunning, unfeeling and selfish you are the better it will be for you.  As long as this 'Battle
of Life' System endures, we have no right to blame other people for doing the same things that
we are ourselves compelled to do.  Blame the system.

But that IS just what the hands did not do.  They blamed each other; they blamed Crass, and
Hunter, and Rushton, but with the Great System of which they were all more or less the victims
they were quite content, being persuaded that it was the only one possible and the best that
human wisdom could devise.  The reason why they all believed this was because not one of them
had ever troubled to inquire whether it would not be possible to order things differently.
They were content with the present system.  If they had not been content they would have been
anxious to find some way to alter it.  But they had never taken the trouble to seriously inquire
whether it was possible to find some better way, and although they all knew in a hazy fashion
that other methods of managing the affairs of the world had already been proposed, they neglected
to inquire whether these other methods were possible or practicable, and they were ready and
willing to oppose with ignorant ridicule or brutal force any man who was foolish or quixotic
enough to try to explain to them the details of what he thought was a better way. They accepted
the present system in the same way as they accepted the alternating seasons.  They knew that
there was spring and summer and autumn and winter.  As to how these different seasons came
to be, or what caused them, they hadn't the remotest notion, and it is extremely doubtful whether
the question had ever occurred to any of them: but there is no doubt whatever about the fact
that none of them knew.  From their infancy they had been trained to distrust their own intelligence,
and to leave the management of the affairs of the world--and for that matter of the next world
too--to their betters; and now most of them were absolutely incapable of thinking of any abstract
subject whatever. Nearly all their betters--that is, the people who do nothing--were unanimous
in agreeing that he present system is a very good one and that it is impossible to alter or
improve it.  Therefore Crass and his mates, although they knew nothing whatever about it themselves,
accepted it as an established, incontrovertible fact that the existing state of things is immutable.
They believed it because someone else told them so. They would have believed anything: on one
condition--namely, that they were told to believe it by their betters. They said it was surely
not for the Like of Them to think that they knew better than those who were more educated and
had plenty of time to study.

As the work in the drawing-room proceeded, Crass abandoned the hope that Owen was going to
make a mess of it.  Some of the rooms upstairs being now ready for papering, Slyme was started
on that work, Bert being taken away from Owen to assist Slyme as paste boy, and it was arranged
that Crass should help Owen whenever he needed someone to lend him a hand.

Sweater came frequently during these four weeks, being interested in the progress of the work.
On these occasions Crass always managed to be present in the drawing-room and did most of the
talking.  Owen was very satisfied with this arrangement, for he was always ill at ease when
conversing with a man like Sweater, who spoke in an offensively patronizing way and expected
common people to kowtow to and 'Sir' him at every second word.  Crass however, seemed to enjoy
doing that kind of thing.  He did not exactly grovel on the floor, when Sweater spoke to him,
but he contrived to convey the impression that he was willing to do so if desired.

Outside the house Bundy and his mates had dug deep trenches in the damp ground in which they
were laying new drains.  This work, like that of the painting of the inside of the house, was
nearly completed. It was a miserable job.  Owing to the fact that there had been a spell of
bad weather the ground was sodden with rain and there was mud everywhere, the men's clothing
and boots being caked with it.  But the worst thing about the job was the smell.  For years
the old drain-pipes had been defective and leaky.  The ground a few feet below the surface
was saturated with fetid moisture and a stench as of a thousand putrefying corpse emanated
from the opened earth.  The clothing of the men who were working in the hendeca became saturated
with this fearful odour, and for that matter, so did the men themselves.

They said they could smell and taste it all the time, even when they were away from the work
at home, and when they were at meals. Although they smoked their pipes all the time they were
at work, Misery having ungraciously given them permission, several times Bundy and one or other
of his mates were attacked with fits of vomiting.

But, as they began to realize that the finish of the job was in sight, a kind of panic seized
upon the hands, especially those who had been taken on last and who would therefore be the
first to be 'stood still'. Easton, however, felt pretty confident that Crass would do his best
to get him kept on till the end of the job, for they had become quite chummy lately, usually
spending a few evenings together at the Cricketers every week.

'There'll be a bloody slaughter 'ere soon,' remarked Harlow to Philpot one day as they were
painting the banisters of the staircase.  'I reckon next week will about finish the inside.'

'And the outside ain't goin' to take very long, you know,' replied Philpot.

'They ain't got no other work in, have they?'

'Not that I knows of,' replied Philpot gloomily; 'and I don't think anyone else has either.'

'You know that little place they call the "Kiosk" down the Grand Parade, near the bandstand,'
asked Harlow after a pause.

'Where they used to sell refreshments?'

'Yes; it belongs to the Corporation, you know.'

'It's been closed up lately, ain't it?'

'Yes; the people who 'ad it couldn't make it pay; but I 'eard last night that Grinder the fruit-merchant
is goin' to open it again.  If it's true, there'll be a bit of a job there for someone, because
it'll 'ave to be done up.'

'Well, I hope it does come orf replied Philpot.  'It'll be a job for some poor b--rs.'

'I wonder if they've started anyone yet on the venetian blinds for this 'ouse?' remarked Easton
after a pause.

'I don't know,' replied Philpot.

They relapsed into silence for a while.

'I wonder what time it is?' said Philpot at length.  'I don't know 'ow you feel, but I begin
to want my dinner.'

'That's just what I was thinking; it can't be very far off it now. It's nearly 'arf an hour
since Bert went down to make the tea.  It seems a 'ell of a long morning to me.'

'So it does to me,' said Philpot;  'slip upstairs and ask Slyme what time it is.'

Harlow laid his brush across the top of his paint-pot and went upstairs.  He was wearing a
pair of cloth slippers, and walked softly, not wishing that Crass should hear him leaving his
work, so it happened that without any intention of spying on Slyme, Harlow reached the door
of the room in which the former was working without being heard and, entering suddenly, surprised
Slyme--who was standing near the fireplace--in the act of breaking a whole roll of wallpaper
across his knee as one might break a stick.  On the floor beside him was what had been another
roll, now broken into two pieces.  When Harlow came in, Slyme started, and his face became
crimson with confusion.  He hastily gathered the broken rolls together and, stooping down,
thrust the pieces up the flue of the grate and closed the register.

'Wot's the bloody game?' inquired Harlow.

Slyme laughed with an affectation of carelessness, but his hands trembled and his face was
now very pale.

'We must get our own back somehow, you know, Fred,' he said.

Harlow did not reply.  He did not understand.  After puzzling over it for a few minutes, he
gave it up.

'What's the time?' he asked.

'Fifteen minutes to twelve,' said Slyme and added, as Harlow was going away: 'Don't mention
anything about that paper to Crass or any of the others.'

'I shan't say nothing,' replied Harlow.

Gradually, as he pondered over it, Harlow began to comprehend the meaning of the destruction
of the two rolls of paper.  Slyme was doing the paperhanging piecework--so much for each roll
hung.  Four of the rooms upstairs had been done with the same pattern, and Hunter--who was
not over-skilful in such matters--had evidently sent more paper than was necessary.  By getting
rid of these two rolls, Slyme would be able to make it appear that he had hung two rolls more
than was really the case.  He had broken the rolls so as to be able to take them away from
the house without being detected, and he had hidden them up the chimney until he got an opportunity
of so doing.  Harlow had just arrived at this solution of the problem when, hearing the lower
flight of stairs creaking, he peeped over and observed Misery crawling up. He had come to see
if anyone had stopped work before the proper time. Passing the two workmen without speaking,
he ascended to the next floor, and entered the room where Slyme was.

'You'd better not do this room yet,' said Hunter.  'There's to be a new grate and mantelpiece
put in.'

He crossed over to the fireplace and stood looking at it thoughtfully for a few minutes.

'It's not a bad little grate, you know, is it?' he remarked.  'We'll be able to use it somewhere
or other.'

'Yes; it's all right,' said Slyme, whose heart was beating like a steam-hammer.

'Do for a front room in a cottage,' continued Misery, stooping down to examine it more closely.
'There's nothing broke that I can see.'

He put his hand against the register and vainly tried to push it open. 'H'm, there's something
wrong 'ere,' he remarked, pushing harder.

'Most likely a brick or some plaster fallen down,' gasped Slyme, coming to Misery's assistance.
'Shall I try to open it?'

'Don't trouble,' replied Nimrod, rising to his feet.  'It's most likely what you say.  I'll
see that the new grate is sent up after dinner. Bundy can fix it this afternoon and then you
can go on papering as soon as you like.'

With this, Misery went out of the room, downstairs and away from the house, and Slyme wiped
the sweat from his forehead with his handkerchief.  Then he knelt down and, opening the register,
he took out the broken rolls of paper and hid them up the chimney of the next room.  While
he was doing this the sound of Crass's whistle shrilled through the house.

'Thank Gord!' exclaimed Philpot fervently as he laid his brushes on the top of his pot and
joined in the general rush to the kitchen.  The scene here is already familiar to the reader.
For seats, the two pairs of steps laid on their sides parallel to each other, about eight feet
apart and at right angles to the fireplace, with the long plank placed across; and the upturned
pails and the drawers of the dresser. The floor unswept and littered with dirt, scraps of paper,
bits of plaster, pieces of lead pipe and dried mud; and in the midst, the steaming bucket of
stewed tea and the collection of cracked cups, jam-jam and condensed milk tins.  And on the
seats the men in their shabby and in some cases ragged clothing sitting and eating their coarse
food and cracking jokes.

It was a pathetic and wonderful and at the same time a despicable spectacle.  Pathetic that
human beings should be condemned to spend the greater part of their lives amid such surroundings,
because it must be remembered that most of their time was spent on some job or other. When
'The Cave' was finished they would go to some similar 'job', if they were lucky enough to find
one.  Wonderful, because although they knew that they did more than their fair share of the
great work of producing the necessaries and comforts of life, they did not think they were
entitled to a fair share of the good things they helped to create! And despicable, because
although they saw their children condemned to the same life of degradation, hard labour and
privation, yet they refused to help to bring about a better state of affairs.  Most of them
thought that what had been good enough for themselves was good enough for their children.

It seemed as if they regarded their own children with a kind of contempt, as being only fit
to grow up to be the servants of the children of such people as Rushton and Sweater.  But it
must be remembered that they had been taught self-contempt when they were children.  In the
so-called 'Christian' schools, they attended then they were taught to 'order themselves lowly
and reverently towards their betters', and they were now actually sending their own children
to learn the same degrading lessons in their turn!  They had a vast amount of consideration
for their betters, and for the children of their betters, but very little for their own children,
for each other, or for themselves.

That was why they sat there in their rags and ate their coarse food, and cracked their coarser
jokes, and drank the dreadful tea, and were content!  So long as they had Plenty of Work and
plenty of--Something--to eat, and somebody else's cast-off clothes to wear, they were content!
And they were proud of it.  They gloried in it. They agreed and assured each other that the
good things of life were not intended for the 'Likes of them', or their children.

'Wot's become of the Professor?' asked the gentleman who sat on the upturned pail in the corner,
referring to Owen, who had not yet come down from his work.

'P'raps 'e's preparing 'is sermon,' remarked Harlow with a laugh.

'We ain't 'ad no lectures from 'im lately, since 'e's been on that room,' observed Easton.
''Ave we?'

'Dam good job too!' exclaimed Sawkins.  'It gives me the pip to 'ear 'im, the same old thing
over and over again.'

'Poor ole Frank,' remarked Harlow.  ''E does upset 'isself about things, don't 'e?'

'More fool 'im!' said Bundy.  'I'll take bloody good care I don't go worryin' myself to death
like 'e's doin', about such dam rot as that.'

'I do believe that's wot makes 'im look so bad as 'e does,' observed Harlow.  'Several times
this morning I couldn't help noticing the way 'e kept on coughing.'

'I thought 'e seemed to be a bit better lately,' Philpot observed; 'more cheerful and happier
like, and more inclined for a bit of fun.'

'He's a funny sort of chap, ain't he?' said Bundy.  'One day quite jolly, singing and cracking
jokes and tellin' yarns, and the next you can't hardly get a word out of 'im.'

'Bloody rot, I call it,' chimed in the man on the pail.  'Wot the 'ell's the use of the likes
of us troublin' our 'eads about politics?'

'Oh, I don't see that.' replied Harlow.  'We've got votes and we're really the people what
control the affairs of the country, so I reckon we ought to take SOME interest in it, but at
the same time I can't see no sense in this 'ere Socialist wangle that Owen's always talkin' about.'

'Nor nobody else neither,' said Crass with a jeering laugh.

'Even if all the bloody money in the world WAS divided out equal,' said the man on the pail,
profoundly, 'it wouldn't do no good!  In six months' time it would be all back in the same
'ands again.'

'Of course,' said everybody.

'But 'e 'ad a cuff the other day about money bein' no good at all!' observed Easton.  'Don't
you remember 'e said as money was the principal cause of poverty?'

'So it is the principal cause of poverty,' said Owen, who entered at that moment.

'Hooray!' shouted Philpot, leading off a cheer which the others took up.  'The Professor 'as
arrived and will now proceed to say a few remarks.'

A roar of merriment greeted this sally.

'Let's 'ave our bloody dinner first, for Christ's sake,' appealed Harlow, with mock despair.

As Owen, having filled his cup with tea, sat down in his usual place, Philpot rose solemnly
to his feet, and, looking round the company, said:

'Genelmen, with your kind permission, as soon as the Professor 'as finished 'is dinner 'e will
deliver 'is well-known lecture, entitled, "Money the Principal Cause of being 'ard up", proving
as money ain't no good to nobody.  At the hend of the lecture a collection will be took up
to provide the lecturer with a little encouragement.'  Philpot resumed his seat amid cheers.

As soon as they had finished eating, some of the men began to make remarks about the lecture,
but Owen only laughed and went on reading the piece of newspaper that his dinner had been wrapped
in.  Usually most of the men went out for a walk after dinner, but as it happened to be raining
that day they were determined, if possible, to make Owen fulfill the engagement made in his
name by Philpot.

'Let's 'oot 'im,' said Harlow, and the suggestion was at once acted upon; howls, groans and
catcalls filled the air, mingled with cries of 'Fraud!' 'Imposter!' 'Give us our money back!'
'Let's wreck the 'all!' and so on.

'Come on 'ere,' cried Philpot, putting his hand on Owen's shoulder. 'Prove that money is the
cause of poverty.'

'It's one thing to say it and another to prove it,' sneered Crass, who was anxious for an opportunity
to produce the long-deferred Obscurer cutting.

'Money IS the real cause of poverty,' said Owen.

'Prove it,' repeated Crass.

'Money is the cause of poverty because it is the device by which those who are too lazy to
work are enabled to rob the workers of the fruits of their labours.'

'Prove it,' said Crass.

Owen slowly folded up the piece of newspaper he had been reading and put it into his pocket.

'All right,' he replied.  'I'll show you how the Great Money Trick is worked.'

Owen opened his dinner basket and took from it two slices of bread but as these were not sufficient,
he requested that anyone who had some bread left would give it to him.  They gave him several
pieces, which he placed in a heap on a clean piece of paper, and, having borrowed the pocket
knives they used to cut and eat their dinners with from Easton, Harlow and Philpot, he addressed
them as follows:

'These pieces of bread represent the raw materials which exist naturally in and on the earth
for the use of mankind; they were not made by any human being, but were created by the Great
Spirit for the benefit and sustenance of all, the same as were the air and the light of the sun.'

'You're about as fair-speakin' a man as I've met for some time,' said Harlow, winking at the
others.

'Yes, mate,' said Philpot.  'Anyone would agree to that much! It's as clear as mud.'

'Now,' continued Owen, 'I am a capitalist; or, rather, I represent the landlord and capitalist
class.  That is to say, all these raw materials belong to me.  It does not matter for our present
argument how I obtained possession of them, or whether I have any real right to them; the only
thing that matters now is the admitted fact that all the raw materials which are necessary
for the production of the necessaries of life are now the property of the Landlord and Capitalist
class.  I am that class: all these raw materials belong to me.'

'Good enough!' agreed Philpot.

'Now you three represent the Working class: you have nothing--and for my part, although I have
all these raw materials, they are of no use to me--what need is--the things that can be made
out of these raw materials by Work: but as I am too lazy to work myself, I have invented the
Money Trick to make you work FOR me.  But first I must explain that I possess something else
beside the raw materials.  These three knives represent--all the machinery of production; the
factories, tools, railways, and so forth, without which the necessaries of life cannot be produced
in abundance.  And these three coins'--taking three halfpennies from his pocket--'represent
my Money Capital.'

'But before we go any further,' said Owen, interrupting himself, 'it is most important that
you remember that I am not supposed to be merely "a" capitalist.  I represent the whole Capitalist
Class.  You are not supposed to be just three workers--you represent the whole Working Class.'

'All right, all right,' said Crass, impatiently, 'we all understand that.  Git on with it.'

Owen proceeded to cut up one of the slices of bread into a number of little square blocks.

'These represent the things which are produced by labour, aided by machinery, from the raw
materials.  We will suppose that three of these blocks represent--a week's work.  We will suppose
that a week's work is worth--one pound: and we will suppose that each of these ha'pennies is
a sovereign.  We'd be able to do the trick better if we had real sovereigns, but I forgot to
bring any with me.'

'I'd lend you some,' said Philpot, regretfully, 'but I left me purse on our grand pianner.'

As by a strange coincidence nobody happened to have any gold with them, it was decided to make
shift with the halfpence.

'Now this is the way the trick works--'

'Before you goes on with it,' interrupted Philpot, apprehensively, 'don't you think we'd better
'ave someone to keep watch at the gate in case a Slop comes along?  We don't want to get runned
in, you know.'

'I don' think there's any need for that,' replied Owen, 'there's only one slop who'd interfere
with us for playing this game, and that's Police Constable Socialism.'

'Never mind about Socialism,' said Crass, irritably.  'Get along with the bloody trick.'

Owen now addressed himself to the working classes as represented by Philpot, Harlow and Easton.

'You say that you are all in need of employment, and as I am the kind-hearted capitalist class
I am going to invest all my money in various industries, so as to give you Plenty of Work.
I shall pay each of you one pound per week, and a week's work is--you must each produce three
of these square blocks.  For doing this work you will each receive your wages; the money will
be your own, to do as you like with, and the things you produce will of course be mine, to
do as I like with.  You will each take one of these machines and as soon as you have done a
week's work, you shall have your money.'

The Working Classes accordingly set to work, and the Capitalist class sat down and watched
them.  As soon as they had finished, they passed the nine little blocks to Owen, who placed
them on a piece of paper by his side and paid the workers their wages.

'These blocks represent the necessaries of life.  You can't live without some of these things,
but as they belong to me, you will have to buy them from me: my price for these blocks is--one
pound each.'

As the working classes were in need of the necessaries of life and as they could not eat, drink
or wear the useless money, they were compelled to agree to the kind Capitalist's terms.  They
each bought back and at once consumed one-third of the produce of their labour. The capitalist
class also devoured two of the square blocks, and so the net result of the week's work was
that the kind capitalist had consumed two pounds worth of the things produced by the labour
of the others, and reckoning the squares at their market value of one pound each, he had more
than doubled his capital, for he still possessed the three pounds in money and in addition
four pounds worth of goods.  As for the working classes, Philpot, Harlow and Easton, having
each consumed the pound's worth of necessaries they had bought with their wages, they were
again in precisely the same condition as when they started work--they had nothing.

This process was repeated several times: for each week's work the producers were paid their
wages.  They kept on working and spending all their earnings.  The kind-hearted capitalist
consumed twice as much as any one of them and his pile of wealth continually increased. In
a little while--reckoning the little squares at their market value of one pound each--he was
worth about one hundred pounds, and the working classes were still in the same condition as
when they began, and were still tearing into their work as if their lives depended upon it.

After a while the rest of the crowd began to laugh, and their merriment increased when the
kind-hearted capitalist, just after having sold a pound's worth of necessaries to each of his
workers, suddenly took their tools--the Machinery of Production--the knives away from them,
and informed them that as owing to Over Production all his store-houses were glutted with the
necessaries of life, he had decided to close down the works.

'Well, and wot the bloody 'ell are we to do now?' demanded Philpot.

'That's not my business,' replied the kind-hearted capitalist.  'I've paid you your wages,
and provided you with Plenty of Work for a long time past.  I have no more work for you to
do at present.  Come round again in a few months' time and I'll see what I can do for you.'

'But what about the necessaries of life?' demanded Harlow.  'We must have something to eat.'

'Of course you must,' replied the capitalist, affably; 'and I shall be very pleased to sell
you some.'

'But we ain't got no bloody money!'

'Well, you can't expect me to give you my goods for nothing!  You didn't work for me for nothing,
you know.  I paid you for your work and you should have saved something: you should have been
thrifty like me. Look how I have got on by being thrifty!'

The unemployed looked blankly at each other, but the rest of the crowd only laughed; and then
the three unemployed began to abuse the kind-hearted Capitalist, demanding that he should give
them some of the necessaries of life that he had piled up in his warehouses, or to be allowed
to work and produce some more for their own needs; and even threatened to take some of the
things by force if he did not comply with their demands.  But the kind-hearted Capitalist told
them not to be insolent, and spoke to them about honesty, and said if they were not careful
he would have their faces battered in for them by the police, or if necessary he would call
out the military and have them shot down like dogs, the same as he had done before at Featherstone
and Belfast.

'Of course,' continued the kind-hearted capitalist, 'if it were not for foreign competition
I should be able to sell these things that you have made, and then I should be able to give
you Plenty of Work again: but until I have sold them to somebody or other, or until I have
used them myself, you will have to remain idle.'

'Well, this takes the bloody biskit, don't it?' said Harlow.

'The only thing as I can see for it,' said Philpot mournfully, 'is to 'ave a unemployed procession.'

'That's the idear,' said Harlow, and the three began to march about the room in Indian file,
singing:

        'We've got no work to do-oo-oo'
        We've got no work to do-oo-oo!
        Just because we've been workin' a dam sight too hard,
        Now we've got no work to do.'

As they marched round, the crowd jeered at them and made offensive remarks.  Crass said that
anyone could see that they were a lot of lazy, drunken loafers who had never done a fair day's
work in their lives and never intended to.

'We shan't never get nothing like this, you know,' said Philpot. 'Let's try the religious dodge.'

'All right,' agreed Harlow.  'What shall we give 'em?'

'I know!' cried Philpot after a moment's deliberation.  '"Let my lower lights be burning."
That always makes 'em part up.'

The three unemployed accordingly resumed their march round the room, singing mournfully and
imitating the usual whine of street-singers:

        'Trim your fee-bil lamp me brither-in,
        Some poor sail-er tempest torst,
        Strugglin' 'ard to save the 'arb-er,
        Hin the dark-niss may be lorst,
        So let try lower lights be burning,
        Send 'er gleam acrost the wave,
        Some poor shipwrecked, struggling seaman,
        You may rescue, you may save.'

