Then came trying days for the family. The officers took up their quarters in the mansion, allowing
the family to occupy the upper story. They may have been brave soldiers, but they certainly
were not gentlemen, for they did everything to annoy Mrs. Gibbes, who bore all her trouble
nobly and patiently. Little Mary had entire charge of the smaller children, which was no easy
task, for they were continually getting into some sort of trouble with the troops.

John's Island was less than thirty miles from Charleston, and when the American officers in
the city heard that "Peaceful Retreat" had been captured by the British, they determined to
rescue it from the enemy. Two large galleys were immediately manned and equipped and sent to
the plantation, with strict orders not to fire upon the mansion.

Sailing noiselessly up the Stono River, at dead of night, the vessels anchored abreast the
plantation. Suddenly, out of the thick darkness burst a flame and roar, and the shot came crashing
through the British encampment. The whole place was instantly in uproar. The officers in the
house sprang from bed, and hastily dressed and armed. The family, rudely awakened, rushed to
the windows. A cold rain was falling, and the soldiers, half-clad, were running wildly hither
and thither, while the officers were frantically calling them to arms. Mary woke at the first
terrible roar and fled to her mother's room. The excitable negro servants uttered most piercing
shrieks. The poor little children were too frightened to scream, but clung, trembling, to Mary.

Mrs. Gibbes was in great distress. She knew not, at first, whether it was an attack by friends
on the camp, or an assault on the house by the enemy. She ordered the servants to cease their
wailing and dress themselves. Then her husband and the children were prepared; and, while the
cannon bellowed in quick succession and the noise around the house grew louder, the father
and mother consulted what was best to do. It was now evident that the attack was by their own
friends, and its object was to dislodge the enemy. But Mr. Gibbes did not know that the house
would not be fired on, and he advised instant flight. He was carried to his chair, and the
whole household sallied forth from a back door.

The scene was terrific. The night was pitchy dark, and when, just as they stepped out, a sheet
of flame belched forth from the vessels, it seemed to be almost against their faces. The roar
shook the ground. The troops were too busy saving themselves to notice the fugitives, and they
pushed on as rapidly as possible.

No one was sufficiently protected from the rain. Little Mary had the hardest part, for nearly
all the children were in her care. The mud was deep. Some of the little ones could walk but
a short distance at a time, and had to be carried--Mary having always one, sometimes two, in
her arms. Several of the servants were near her, but none of them seemed to notice her or her
burdens. The last horse had been carried off that very day; there was no escape but on foot.

Suddenly, a ball came crashing by them through the trees! Then a charge of grape-shot cut the
boughs overhead. They were exactly in the range of the guns! It was evident they had taken
the worst direction, but there was no help for it now--it was too late to turn back. In her
agony, the mother cried aloud on God to protect her family. Mary hugged closer the child in
her arms, and trembled so she could hardly keep up. Another crash! The shot shrieked past them,
striking the trees in every direction. The assault was fierce, the roar was incessant. The
frightened family rushed on as swiftly as possible toward a friend's plantation, far back from
the shore; but it was soon seen that they would not have strength to reach it, even if they
were not struck down by the flying shot. The Americans were pouring their fire into these woods,
thinking the enemy would seek refuge there. The wretched fugitives expected every moment to
be the last. On they pushed through mud and rain and screaming shot.

Soon they found they were getting more out of range of the guns. They began to hope; yet now
and then a ball tore up the trees around them, or rolled fearfully across their path. They
reached one of the houses where their field-hands lived, with no one hurt; they were over a
mile from the mansion, and out of range. The negroes said no shot had come that way. Unable
to flee further, the family determined to stop here. As soon as they entered, Mrs. Gibbes felt
her strength leaving her, and sank upon a low bed. Chilled to the bone, drenched, trembling
with terror and exhaustion, the family gathered around her. She opened her eyes and looked
about. She sprang up wildly.

"Oh, Mary!" she cried, "where is John?"

The little girl turned pale, and moaned: "Oh, mother! mother! he's left!" She broke into crying.
The negroes, quickly sympathetic, began to wring their hands and wail.

"Silence!" said Mr. Gibbes, with stern but trembling voice. The tears were in his own eyes.
The little child now missing was very dear to them all, and, moreover, was deemed a sacred
charge, as he was one of the orphan children of Mr. Gibbes's sister, intrusted to him on her
death-bed.

The wailing ceased; there was silence, broken only by sobs, and the master asked:

"Who is willing to go back for the child?"

No one spoke. Mr. Gibbes turned to his wife for counsel. As the two talked in low tones, Mrs.
Gibbes called her husband's attention to Mary, who was kneeling with clasped hands, in prayer,
at the foot of the bed. In a moment, the little maid rose and came to them, saying, calmly:

"Mother, I must go back after baby."

"Oh, my child," cried the mother, in agony, "I cannot let you!"

"But, mother, I must," pleaded Mary. "God will care for me."

It was a fearful responsibility. The guns yet roared constantly through the darkness; the house
might now be in flames; it might be filled with carnage and blood. Mrs. Gibbes turned to her
husband. His face was buried in his hands. Plainly, she must decide it herself. With streaming
eyes, she looked at Mary.

"Come here, my child," she called through her sobs. Mary fell upon her mother's neck. One long,
passionate embrace, in which all a mother's love and devotion were poured out, and the clinging
arms were opened without a word. Mary sprang up, kissed her father's forehead, and sped forth
on her dangerous mission of love.

The rain had now ceased, but the night was still dark and full of terrors, for through the
trees she saw the frequent flashes of the great guns. The woods were filled with the booming
echoes, so that cannon seemed to be on every hand. She flew on with all speed. Soon she heard
the crashing trees ahead, and knew that in a moment she would be once more face to face with
death. She did not falter. Now she was again in the fierce whirlwind! All around her the shot
howled and shrieked. On every side branches fell crashing to the earth. A cannon-ball plunged
into the ground close beside her, cast over her a heap of mud, and threw her down. She sprang
up and pressed on with redoubled vigor. Not even that ball could make her turn back.

She reached the house. She ran to the room where the little child usually slept. The bed was
empty! Distracted, she flew from chamber to chamber. Suddenly she remembered that this night
he had been given to another nurse. Up into the third story she hurried, and, as she pushed
open the door, the little fellow, sitting up in bed, cooed to her and put out his hands.

With the tears raining down her cheeks, Mary wrapped the babe warmly and started down the stairs.
Out into the darkness once more; onward with her precious burden, through cannon-roar, through
shot and shell! Three times she passed through this iron storm. The balls still swept the forest;
the terrific booming filled the air.

With the child pressed tightly to her brave young heart, she fled on. She neither stumbled
nor fell. The shot threw the dirt in her face, and showered the twigs down upon her head. But
she was not struck. In safety she reached the hut, and fell exhausted across the threshold.

And the little boy thus saved by a girl's brave devotion, afterward became General Fenwick,
famous in the war of 1812.

FORTY--LESS ONE.

BY JAMES RICHARDSON.

  Over by the tangled thicket,
    Where the level meets the hill,
  Where the mealy alder-bushes
    Crowd around the ruined mill,
  Where the thrushes whistle early,
    Where the midges love to play,
  Where the nettles, tall and stinging,
    Guard the vine-obstructed way,
  Where the tired brooklet lingers;
    In a quiet little pool,
  Mistress Salmo Fontinalis[A]
    Keeps a very private school.

  Forty little speckled beauties
    Come to learn of her, each day,
  How to climb the foaming rapids,
    Where the flashing sunbeams play,--
  How to navigate the eddies,
    How to sink and how to rise,
  How to watch for passing perils,
    How to leap for passing flies,--
  When to play upon the surface,
    When beneath the stones to hide,--
  All the secrets of the water,
    All brook learning, true and tried;--

  "That's a good-for-nothing skipper;"
    "That's a harmless yellow-bird;"
  "That's the flicker of the sunshine,
    When the alder-leaves are stirred;"
  "That's the shadow of a cloudlet;"
    "That's a squirrel come to drink;"
  "That--look out for him, my darlings!--
    He's a fierce and hungry mink;"
  "That's the ripple on the water,
    When the winds the wavelets stir;"
  "That--snap quick, my little hearties!--
    That's a luscious grasshopper."

  So the clever Mistress Salmo
    Gives her counsel, day by day,--
  Teaching all the troutly virtues,
    All life's lessons, grave and gay.
  Well she knows the flashing terror
    Of King Fisher's sudden fall!
  Well she knows the lurking danger
    Of the barb'd hook, keen and small!
  Well she tries to warn her pupils
    Of all evils, low and high!
  But, alas! the vain young triflers
    Sometimes disobey--and die!

  What was that which passed so quickly,
    With a slender shade behind?
  What is that which stirs the alders
    When no ripple tells of wind?
  What sends Mistress Salmo darting
    Underneath the stones in fear?--
  Crying, "Hide yourselves, my darlings!
    Our worst enemy is near!"
  "I am bound to understand it,"
    Says one self-proud speckle-side;
  "When I see the danger's real,
    Then, if need be, I can hide."

  So he waits alone and watches,
    Sees the shadow pass again,
  Sees a fly drop on the water,--
    Dashes at it, might and main.
  "Missed it! Well," he says, "I never!
    That's the worst jump made to-day!
  Here another comes--now for it!"
    Splash! He's in the air--to stay!
  When the alders cease to tremble,
    Silence comes and sun-glints shine,
  Mistress Salmo Fontinalis
    Calls the roll,--just thirty-nine!

[Footnote A: Brook-trout.]

HOW THE WEATHER IS FORETOLD.

BY JAMES H. FLINT.

In former times, the chief herald of the weather was the almanac, which ambitiously prophesied
a whole year of cold and heat, wet and dry, dividing up the kinds of weather quite impartially,
if not always correctly.

But the almanac, good as it was now and then, and the weather-wise farmers, correct as sometimes
they might have been, were not always able to impart exact information to the country; and
they have been thrown quite into the shade of late, by one who is popularly known under the
somewhat disrespectful title of "Old Prob," or "Old Probabilities." He has become the Herald
of the Weather to the sailor, near the rocky, dangerous coasts; to the farmer, watching his
crops, and waiting for good days to store them; to the traveler, anxious to pursue his journey
under fair skies; and to the girls and boys who want to know, before they start to the woods
for a picnic, what are the "probabilities" as to rain.

Every one who reads the daily paper is familiar with the "Weather Record," issued from the
"War Department, office of the Chief Signal Officer," at Washington. These reports give, first,
a general statement of what the weather has been, for the past twenty-four hours, all over
the country, from Maine to California, and from the Lakes to the South Atlantic States; and
then the "Probabilities," or "Indications," for the next twenty-four hours, over this same
broad territory. The annual reports of the Chief Signal Officer show that in only comparatively
few instances do these daily predictions fail of fulfillment.

The reason these prophecies are so true is a simple and yet a wonderful one. The weather itself
tells the observer what it is going to do, some time in advance, and the telegraph sends the
news all over the country, from the central signal office at Washington.

We shall see, presently, how the weather interprets itself to "Old Probabilities." Although
it has proved such a fruitful subject of discourse in all ages, yet I am afraid many people
who pass remarks upon it do not really think what the weather is made of. Let us examine its
different elements.

The atmosphere has weight, just as water or any other fluid, although it seems to be perfectly
bodiless. We must comprehend that the transparent, invisible air is pressing inward toward
the center of the earth. This pressure varies according to the state of the weather, and the
changes are indicated by an instrument called a barometer. Generally speaking, the falling
of the mercury in the tube of the barometer indicates rain, and its rise heralds clear weather.
Sometimes the rise is followed by cold winds, frost and ice. What these changes really indicate,
however, can be determined only by comparing the barometric changes, at certain hours, in a
number of places very far apart. This is done by the Signal Service. Observations are made
at about one hundred and forty stations, in different portions of the country, at given hours,
and the results are telegraphed at once to Washington, where our faithful "weather clerk" receives
them, reasoning out from them the "probabilities" which he publishes three times in every twenty-four
hours.

But the atmosphere varies not only in weight, but also in temperature. The thermometer tells
us of such changes.

Besides this, the air contains a great amount of moisture, and it shows as much variation in
this characteristic as in the others. For the purpose of making known the changes in the moisture
of the atmosphere, an instrument has been invented called a "wet-bulb" thermometer.

We are thus enabled to ascertain the weight or pressure, the temperature, and the wetness of
the air, and now it only remains for us to measure the force, and point out the direction,
of the wind. This is done by the familiar weather-vane and the anemometer. The vane shows the
direction, and the anemometer is an instrument which indicates the velocity of the wind.

It is by a right understanding of all these instruments that the signal service officer is
enabled to tell what the weather says of itself; for they are the pens with which the weather
writes out the facts from which the officer makes up his reports for the benefit of all concerned.
Thus, however wildly and blindly the storm may seem to come, it sends messengers telling just
where it arose, what course it will take, and how far it will extend. But it tells its secrets
to those only who pay strict attention.

The system of danger signals, adopted by the United States Government, has proved of great
benefit to shipping. All along the coasts are stations, at which plainly visible signals are
displayed, to warn ship-captains of approaching storms. The reports of observers at the stations
are required to give all instances in which vessels have remained in port on account of official
warnings given. In these cases danger was avoided, and statistics show that disasters to shipping
have been considerably fewer since the introduction of the cautionary signals.

The agricultural interests of the country also have been greatly benefited by the daily bulletins
sent to every farming district in the land by the Weather Department. These bulletins are made
from telegraphic reports received at appointed centers of distribution, where they are at once
printed, placed in envelopes, and addressed to designated post-offices in the district to be
supplied. Each postmaster receiving a bulletin has the order of the Postmaster-General to display
it instantly in a frame furnished for the purpose.

The bulletins reach the different offices, and are displayed in the frames, on the average,
at eleven o'clock in the morning, making about ten hours from the time the report first left
the chief signal officer until it appeared placarded at every center of the farming populations,
and became accessible to all classes even in the most distant parts of the country.

The information given on these bulletins has been found especially valuable to those farmers
who take an interest in the study of meteorology, or the science of weather, and the facts
announced are so plain, that any intelligent person may profit by them. For instance, each
bulletin now announces, for its particular district, what winds in each month have been found
most likely, and what least likely, to be followed by rain. Attention given to this one simple
piece of information will result in increasing the gains and reducing the losses of harvesting.

Warnings of expected rises or falls in the great rivers are made with equal regularity, telegraphed,
bulletined in frames, and also published by the newspapers, at the different river cities.
These daily reports give the depths of water at different points in the rivers' courses, and
thus make it easy for river shipping to be moored safely in anticipation of low water, when
ignorance might lead to the grounding of the boats on sand-bars or mud-banks. The notices of
the probable heights which freshets may reach, are followed by preparations upon the "levees"
and river-banks, to guard against overflows.

The United States Signal Service is a branch of the army. No one is admitted to it who is under
twenty-one years of age. Every candidate has to undergo before enlistment an examination, the
chief subjects of which are spelling, legible hand-writing, proficiency in arithmetic, and
the geography of the United States, physical and political.

Successful candidates are regularly enlisted in the army, as non-commissioned officers, and
go through a course of very systematic instruction in military signaling and telegraphy. They
are assigned afterward to different posts, where they are required to make observations and
report the same by wire three times a day, to the commanding officer at Washington. These observations
are made by means of the instruments I have described, and include the different appearances
in the sky; and at all the stations they are made at the same hour, according to Washington
time. The telegraph gives to the Herald of the Weather and his aids the advantage of hearing
from all the hundred and forty-odd observers almost at the same time; and when all this information
has been gathered up, studied out, and re-arranged, the same swift servant takes all over the
country, again almost at one time, the ripe results of the care and watching of more than seven
score persons separated by hundreds and even thousands of miles from the central office.

I should like to describe the instruments fully, but must content myself with telling you what
remarkable things some of them do. The self-registering barometer, for instance, is made to
actually photograph a storm; another is made to draw with a pencil, every hour, figures that
show the height of the column of mercury and the condition of the atmosphere. Even the vane,
or weather-cock, marks down the direction and force of the wind.

The report of the chief signal officer for the year 1876 gives some idea of the vast amount
of labor performed by the service. The Herald of the Weather never rests. As he says, "The
duties of this office permit little rest and less hesitation. Its action must be prompt. *
* * Its orders must issue, its signals of warning be given, and its record thus made, sometimes
when wisdom would delay, if possible, and subsequent information show it had delayed rightly.
It is the simple duty of the office to act at each present moment as well as it can with the
information at that time before it. The reports to come after can only give bases for future
action, while exhibiting the right and wrong of the past." These points should be borne in
mind by those who are disposed to find fault with some of the daily predictions about the weather.
If these predictions do not always come true, it is for the reason given above. Each report
must be made at a given hour. Sudden changes may occur immediately after a report has been
issued. These changes cannot be waited for, and cannot always be foreseen. But the general
accuracy of the daily reports cannot be questioned, as about eighty per cent of their predictions
are known to have been verified, and the average of failure grows less.

The method of arranging, comparing, and studying out the meaning of all the different records
of observations made at all the weather stations, cannot be explained in a short article. But
I may add that the weather is, after all, not quite so capricious as its accusers have asserted.
And it has been found that all storms have certain "habits, movements, and tracks." It is by
applying these laws, and drawing conclusions from them, that the prophet of the weather is
able to tell so nearly what kind of a day we shall have, and just about where and when the
storm will come.

Nearly all great storms have a rotary, or cyclonical character. The little whirlwinds we often
see on windy days, when the dust is caught up and whirled around, are miniature examples of
great storms which sweep around immense circles. Almost all great rain, hail, and snow storms
revolve in this manner around a calm center where the mercury is low in the tube of the barometer.
Sometimes two or more cyclones meet, and interfere with one another's rotary motions; and "when
interferences of this description take place, we have squalls, calms (often accompanied by
heavy rains), thunder-storms, great variations in the direction and force of the wind," and
irregular movements of the barometer.

So then, considering all that the Herald of the Weather has to do, the care and quickness with
which it must be done, and the excellent results he obtains, everybody who is at all interested
in the changes of the weather ought to be grateful to him for his faithfulness and devoted
attention to duty.

But why should the Government of the United States--that is to say, the people as a whole--take
the trouble and bear the cost of keeping a small army of men to watch the weather all over
the country, and to telegraph their observations three times a day to Washington? Why should
the officials there take the trouble to compare these observations and telegraph back to each
locality what weather it may expect, and what the weather will be elsewhere, so that you and
I may know when to stay at home, or when to take our umbrellas with us if we go out?

Hardly. There are more important matters at stake. Most of you are old enough to know that
it is unexpected weather that causes most of the trouble that the weather occasions. The farmer
expects fair weather, cuts his hay or grain, and a storm comes and spoils it. He looks for
rain, and lets his crop stand; the bright sun injures it, or he loses a good chance to harvest
it. The ship-master expects fair weather, puts out from port, and his ship is driven back upon
the shore, a wreck. He expects a storm, stays in port, and misses the fair wind that would
have carried him far to sea.

Now, a very large part of these disappointments and losses may be prevented, if one only knows
with reasonable certainty what sort of weather it is likely to be to-day and to-morrow; and
that is just the information the Weather Herald furnishes. The great storms usually come slowly
driving across the country--so slowly that the telegraph may send word of their coming two
or three days ahead. Thus the farmers may know just what they may safely undertake to do; and
so may the ship-masters.

Since the farmers and seamen have learned to value the weather warnings rightly, this service
saves the country every year millions and millions of dollars' worth of property, and, it may
be, hundreds of lives. Often a single timely warning has prevented losses that would have amounted
to more than the entire cost of the weather service from the beginning until now. And possibly
the yearly saving effected by warnings of ordinary "changeable" weather, may together amount
to more than those in connection with great storms.

TOO MANY BIRTHDAYS.

BY FANNY M. OSBORNE.

The king of the island was the father, and the queen the mother, of the little princess about
whom this story is told. For many generations there had been but one child born to the royal
family; but goodness and beauty being hereditary, these only children were beloved by all the
subjects of the realm; and although they ran a great danger of being spoiled, they never were,
but remained all through their lives as simple, gentle, and unpretentious as though born to
the humblest lot.

Of course, the event of the birth of one of these children had been, from time immemorial,
the occasion of the greatest and most sincere rejoicing, and the enthusiasm of the people seemed
even greater at each repetition of these blessed anniversaries.

In this happy island crimes were almost unknown; and so generous and confiding were the people,
that they imagined all the world were as good as themselves. It is not surprising, therefore,
that when the great physician Aigew came from a far distant land to attend the grandfather
of the little princess on his death-bed, no one in all the island suspected that he was anything
else than the best and kindest of doctors. It is true that the former court physician, now
displaced by Aigew, had his doubts about his successor. But it is best not to trouble ourselves
with what we cannot understand; and whether or not Aigew was as good as he pretended to be,
the king and queen were altogether pleased with their new doctor. Knowing him to be wise and
of great book-learning, they admitted him to the closest intimacy in their private life, consulted
him upon all questions of state, and accepted his guidance and counsel as that of a superior
being. It was to his influence that the islanders owed their great birthday law, by which it
was enacted that, on each recurrence of the princess's anniversary, every child in the kingdom
was to be allowed his or her way, without restraint, from sunrise until sunset; and, during
the day, the use of the word "no" was forbidden to all fathers and mothers and nursery-maids,
from one end of the island to the other.

