I held a levee to decide on the best manner of proceeding. The Waganda wanted us to stop for
the day and feel the way gently, arguing that etiquette demands it. Then, trying to terrify
me, they said, N'yamyonjo had a hundred boats, and would drive us back to a certainty if we
tried to force past them, if he were not first spoken with, as the Waganda had often tried
the passage and been repulsed. On the other hand, I argued that Grant must have arrived long
ago at Kamrasi's, and removed all these difficulties for us; but, I said, if they would send
men, let Bombay start at once by land, and we will follow in boats, after giving him time to
say we are coming. This point gained after a hot debate, Bombay started at 10 a.m., and we
not till 5 p.m., it being but one hour's journey by water. The frontier line was soon crossed;
and then both sides of the river, Usoga as well as Unyoro, belong to Kamrasi.

I flattered myself all my walking this journey was over, and there was nothing left but to
float quietly down the Nile, for Kidgwiga had promised boats, on Kamrasi's account, from Unyoro
to Gani, where Petherick's vessels were said to be stationed; but this hope shared the fate
of so many others in Africa. In a little while an enormous canoe, full of well-dressed and
well-armed men, was seen approaching us. We worked on, and found they turned, as if afraid.
Our men paddled faster, they did the same, the pages keeping time playfully by beat of drum,
until at last it became an exciting chase, won by the Wanyoro by their superior numbers. The
sun was now setting as we approached N'yamyongo's. On a rock by the river stood a number of
armed men, jumping, jabbering, and thrusting with their spears, just as the Waganda do. I thought,
indeed, they were Waganda doing this to welcome us; but a glance at Kasoro's glassy eyes told
me such was not the case, but, on the contrary, their language and gestures were threats, defying
us to land.

The bank of the river, as we advanced, then rose higher, and was crowned with huts and plantations,
before which stood groups and lines of men, all fully armed. Further, at this juncture, the
canoe we had chased turned broadside on us, and joined in the threatening demonstrations of
the people on shore. I could not believe them to be serious--thought they had mistaken us--and
stood up in the boat to show myself, hat in hand. I said I was an Englishman going to Kamrasi's,
and did all I could, but without creating the slightest impression. They had heard a drum beat,
they said, and that was a signal of war, so war it should be; and Kamrasi's drums rattled up
both sides the river, preparing everybody to arm. This was serious. Further, a second canoe
full of armed men issued out from the rushes behind us, as if with a view to cut off our retreat,
and the one in front advanced upon us, hemming us in. To retreat together seemed our only chance,
but it was getting dark, and my boats were badly manned. I gave the order to close together
and retire, offering ammunition as an incentive, and all came to me but one boat, which seemed
so paralysed with fright, it kept spinning round and round like a crippled duck.

The Wanyoro, as they saw us retreating, were now heard to say, "They are women, they are running,
let us at them;" whilst I kept roaring to my men, "Keep together--come for powder;" and myself
loaded with small shot, which even made Kasoro laugh and inquire if it was intended for the
Wanyoro. "Yes, to shoot them like guinea-fowl;" and he laughed again. But confound my men!
they would not keep together, and retreat with me. One of those served with ammunition went
as hard as he could go up stream to be out of harm's way, and another preferred hugging the
dark shade of the rushes to keeping the clear open, which I desired for the benefit of our
guns. It was not getting painfully dark, and the Wanyoro were stealing on us, as we could hear,
though nothing could be seen. Presently the shade-seeking boat was attacked, spears were thrown,
fortunately into the river instead of into our men, and grappling-hooks were used to link the
boats together. My men cried, "Help, Bana! they are killing us;" whilst I roared to my crew,
"Go in, go in, and the victory will be ours;" but not a soul would--they were spell-bound to
the place; we might have been cut up in detail, it was all the same to those cowardly Waganda,
whose only action consisted in crying, "N'yawo! n'yawo!"--mother, mother, help us!

Three shots from the hooked boat now finished the action. The Wanyoro had caught a Tartar.
Two of their men fell--one killed, one wounded. They were heard saying their opponents were
not Waganda, it were better to leave them alone; and retreated, leaving us, totally uninjured,
a clear passage up the river. But where was Bombay all this while! He did not return till after
us, and then, in considerable excitement, he told his tale. He reached N'yamyongo's village
before noon, asked for the officer, but was desired to wait in a hut until the chief should
arrive, as he had gone out on business; the villagers inquired, however, why we had robbed
the Wanyoro yesterday, for they had laid a complaint against us. Bombay replied it was no fault
of Bana's, he did everything he could to prevent it, and returned all that the boatmen took.

These men then departed, and did not return until evening, when they asked Bombay, impudently,
why he was sitting there, as he had received no invitation to spend the night; and unless he
walked off soon they would set fire to his hut. Bombay, without the smallest intention of moving,
said he had orders to see N'yamyonjo, and until he did so he would not budge. "Well," said
the people, "you have got your warning, now look our for yourselves;" and Bombay, with his
Waganda escort, was left again. Drums then began to beat, and men to hurry to and fro with
spears and shields, until at last our guns were heard, and, guessing the cause, Bombay with
his Waganda escort rushed out of the hut into the jungle, and, without daring to venture on
the beaten track, through thorns and thicket worked his way back to me, lame, and scratched
all over with thorns.

Crowds of Waganda, all armed as if for war, came to congratulate us in the morning, jumping,
jabbering, and shaking their spears at us, denoting a victory gained--for we had shot Wanyoro
and no harm had befallen us. "But the road," I cried, "has that been gained? I am not going
to show my back. We must go again, for there is some mistake; Grant is with Kamrasi, and N'yamyongo
cannot stop us. If you won't go in boats, let us go by land to N'yamyongo's, and the boats
will follow after." Not a soul, however, would stir. N'yamyongo was described as an independent
chief, who listened to Kamrasi only when he liked. He did not like strange eyes to see his
secret lodges on the N'yanza; and if he did not wish us to go down the river, Kamrasi's orders
would go for nothing. His men had now been shot; to go within his reach would be certain death.
Argument was useless, boating slow, to send messages worse; so I gave in, turned my back on
the Nile, and the following day (16th) came on the Luajerri.

Here, to my intense surprise, I heard that Grant's camp was not far off, on its return from
Kamrasi's. I could not, rather would not, believe it, suspicious as it now appeared after my
reverse. The men, however, were positive, and advised my going to king Mtesa's--a ridiculous
proposition, at once rejected; for I had yet to receive Kamrasi's answer to our Queen, about
opening a trade with England. I must ascertain why he despised Englishmen without speaking
with them, and I could not believe Kamrasi would prove less avaricious than either Rumanika
or Mtesa, especially as Rumanika had made himself responsible for our actions. We slept that
night near Kari, the Waganda eating two goats which had been drowned in the Luajerri; and the
messenger-page, having been a third time to the palace and back again, called to ask after
our welfare, on behalf of his king, and remind us about the gun and brandy promised.

17th and 18th.--The two following days were spent wandering about without guides, trying to
keep the track Grant had taken after leaving us, crossing at first a line of small hills, then
traversing grass and jungle, like the dak of India. Plantain-gardens were frequently met, and
the people seemed very hospitably inclined, though they complained sadly of the pages rudely
rushing into every hut, seizing everything they could lay their hands on, and even eating the
food which they had just prepared for their own dinners, saying, in a mournful manner, "If
it were not out of respect for you we should fight those little rascals, for it is not the
king's guest nor his men who do us injury, but the king's own servants, without leave or licence."
I observed that special bomas or fences were erected to protect these villages against the
incursions of lions. Buffaloes were about, but the villagers cautioned us not to shoot them,
holding them as sacred animals; and, to judge from the appearance of the country, wild animals
should abound, were it not for the fact that every Mganda seems by instinct to be a sportsman.

At last, after numerous and various reports about Grant, we heard his drums last night, but
we arrived this morning just in time to be too late. He was on his march back to the capital
of Uganda, as the people had told us, and passed through N'yakinyama just before I reached
it. What had really happened I knew not, and was puzzled to think. To insist on a treaty, demanding
an answer, to the Queen, seemed the only chance left; so I wrote to Grant to let me know all
about it, and waited the result. He very obligingly came himself, said he left Unyoro after
stopping there an age asking for the road without effect, and left by the orders of Kamrasi,
thinking obedience the better policy to obtain our ends. Two great objections had been raised
against us; one was that we were reported to be cannibals, and the other that our advancing
by two roads at once was suspicious, the more especially so as the Waganda were his enemies;
had we come from Rumanika direct, there would have been no objection to us.

When all was duly considered, it appeared evident to me that the great king of Unyoro, "the
father of all the kings," was merely a nervous, fidgety creature, half afraid of us because
we were attempting his country by the unusual mode of taking two routes at once, but wholly
so of the Waganda, who had never ceased plundering his country for years. As it appeared that
he would have accepted us had we come by the friendly route of Kisuere, a further parley was
absolutely necessary, and the more especially so, as now we were all together and in Uganda,
which, in consequence, must relieve him from the fear of our harbouring evil designs against
him. No one present, however, could be prevailed on to go to him in the capacity of ambassador,
as the frontier officer had warned the Wageni or guests that, if they ever attempted to cross
the border again, he was bound in duty, agreeably to the orders of his king, to expel them
by force; therefore, should the Wageni attempt it after this warning, their first appearance
would be considered a casus belli; and so the matter rested for the day.

To make the best of a bad bargain, and as N'yakinyama was "eaten up," we repaired to Grant's
camp to consult with Budja; but Budja was found firm and inflexible against sending men up
to Unyoro. His pride had been injured by the rebuffs we had sustained. He would wait here three
or four days as I proposed, to see what fortune sent us, if I would not be convinced that Kamrasi
wished to reject us, and he would communicate with his king in the meantime, but nothing more.
Here was altogether a staggerer: I would stop for three or four days, but if Kamrasi would
not have us by that time, what was to be done? Would it be prudent to try Kisuere now Baraka
had been refused the Gani route? or would it not be better still for me to sell Kamrasi altogether,
by offering Mtesa five hundred loads of ammunition, cloth and beads, if he would give us a
thousand Waganda as a force to pass through the Masai to Zanzibar, this property to be sent
back by the escort from the coast? Kamrasi would no doubt catch it if we took this course,
but it was expensive.

Thus were we ruminating, when lo, to our delight, as if they had been listening to us, up came
Kidgwiga, my old friend, who, at Mtesa'a place, had said Kamrasi would be very glad to see
me, and Vittagura, Kamrasi's commander-in-chief, to say their king was very anxious to see
us, and the Waganda might come or not as they liked. Until now, the deputation said, Kamrasi
had doubted Budja's word about our friendly intentions, but since he saw us withdrawing from
his country, those doubts were removed. The N'yamswenge, they said--meaning, I thought, Petherick--was
still at Gani; no English or others on the Nile ever expressed a wish to enter Unyoro, otherwise
they might have done so; and Baraka had left for Karague, carrying off an ivory as a present
from Kamrasi.

21st.--I ordered the march to Unyoro; Budja, however, kept brooding over the message sent to
the Waganda, to the effect that they might come or not as they liked, and considering us with
himself to have all been treated "like dogs," begged me to give him my opinion as to what course
he had better pursue; for he must, in the first instance, report the whole circumstances to
the king, and could not march at once. This was a blight on our prospects, and appeared very
vexatious, in the event of Budja waiting for an answer, which, considering Mtesa had ordered
his Wakungu to accompany us all the way to Gani, might stop our march altogether.

I therefore argued that Kamrasi's treatment of us was easily accounted for: he heard of us
coming by two routes from an enemy's country, and was naturally suspicious of us; that had
now been changed by our withdrawing, and he invited us to him. Without doubt, his commander-in-chief
was never very far away, and followed on our heels. Such precaution was only natural and reasonable
on Kamrasi's part, and what had been done need not alarm any one. "If you do your duty properly,
you will take us at once into Unyoro, make your charge over to these men, and return or not
as you like; for in doing so you will have fulfilled both Mtesa's, and Kamrasi's orders at
once." "Very good," says Budja, "let it be so; for there is great wisdom in your words: but
I must first send to my king, for the Waganda villagers have struck two of your men with weapons"
(this had happened just before my arrival here), "and this is a most heinous offence in Uganda,
which cannot be overlooked. Had it been done with a common stick, it could have been overlooked;
but the use of weapons is an offence, and both parties must go before the king." This, of course,
was objected to on the plea that it was my own affair. I was king of the Wanguana, and might
choose to dispense with the attendance. The matter was compromised, however, on the condition
that Budja should march across the border to-morrow, and wait for the return of these men and
for further orders on the Unyoro side.

The bait took. Budja lost sight of the necessity there was for his going to Gani to bring back
a gun, ammunition, and some medicine--that is to say, brandy--for his king; and sent his men
off with mine to tell Mtesa all our adventures--our double repulse, the intention to wait on
the Unyoro side for further orders, and the account of some Waganda having wounded my men.
I added my excuses for Kamrasi, and laid a complaint against Mtesa's officers for having defrauded
us out of ten cows, five goats, six butter, and sixty mbugu. It was not that we required these
things, but I knew that the king had ordered them to be given to us, and I thought it right
we should show that his officers, if they professed to obey his orders, had peculated. After
these men had started, some friends of the villager who had been apprehended on the charge
of assailing my men, came and offered Budja five cows to overlook the charge; and Budja, though
he could not overlook it when I pleaded for the man, asked me to recall my men. Discovering
that the culprit was a queen's man, and that the affair would cause bad blood at court should
the king order the man's life to be taken, I tried to do so, but things had gone too far.

Again the expedition marched on in the right direction. We reached the last village on the
Uganda frontier, and there spent the night. Here Grant shot a nsunnu buck. The Wanguana mutinied
for ammunition, and would not lift a load until they got it, saying, "Unyoro is a dangerous
country," though they had been there before without any more than they now had in pouch. The
fact was, my men, in consequence of the late issues on the river, happened to have more than
Grant's men, and every man must have alike. The ringleader, unfortunately for himself, had
lately fired at a dead lion, to astonish the Unyoro, and his chum had fired a salute, which
was contrary to orders; for ammunition was at a low ebb, and I had done everything in my power
to nurse it. Therefore, as a warning to the others, the guns of these two were confiscated,
and a caution given that any gun in future let off, either by design or accident, would be taken.

To-day I felt very thankful to get across the much-vexed boundary-line, and enter Unyoro, guided
by Kamrasi's deputation of officers, and so shake off the apprehensions which had teased us
for so many days. No hills, except a few scattered cones, disturb the level surface of the
land, and no pretty views ever cheer the eye. Uganda is now entirely left behind; we shall
not see its like again; for the further one leaves the equator, and the rain-attracting influences
of the Mountains of the Moon, vegetation decreases proportionately with the distance.

Fortunately the frontier-village could not feed so large a party as ours, and therefore we
were compelled to move farther on, to our great delight, through the same style of forest acacia,
cactus, and tall grass, to Kidgwiga's gardens, where we no sooner arrived than Mtesa's messenger-page,
with a party of fifty Waganda, dropped in, in the most unexpected manner, to inquire after
"his royal master's friend, Bana." The king had heard of the fight upon the river, and thought
the Wanguana must be very good shots. He still trusted we would not forget the gun and ammunition,
but, above all, the load of stimulants, for he desired that above all things on earth. This
was the fourth message to remind us of these important matters which we had received since
leaving his gracious presence, and each time brought by the same page. While the purpose of
the boy's coming with so many men was not distinctly known, the whole village and camp were
in a state of great agitation, Budja fearing lest the king had some fault to find with his
work, and the Wanyoro deeming it a menace of war, whilst I was afraid they might take fright
and stop our progress.

But all went well in the end; Massey's log, which I have mentioned as a present I intended
for Mtesa, was packed up, and the page departed with it. Some of Rumanika's men, who came into
Unyoro with Baraka, with four of K'yengo's, were sent to call us by Kamrasi. Through Rumanika's
men it transpired that he had stood security for our actions, else, with the many evil reports
of our being cannibals and such-like, which had preceded our coming here, we never should have
gained admittance to the country. The Wanyoro, who are as squalid-looking as the Wanyamuezi,
and almost as badly dressed, now came about us to hawk ivory ornaments, brass and copper twisted
wristlets, tobacco, and salt, which they exchanged for cowries, with which they purchase cows
from the Waganda. As in Uganda, all the villagers forsook their huts as soon as they heard
the Wageni (guests) were coming; and no one paid the least attention to the traveller, save
the few head-men attached to the escort, or some professional traders.

25th to 28th.--I had no sooner ordered the march than Vittagura counter-ordered it, and held
a levee to ascertain, as he said, if the Waganda were to go back; for though Kamrasi wished
to see us, he did not want the Waganda. It was Kamrasi's orders that Budja should tell this
to his "child the Mkavia," meaning Mtesa; for when the Waganda came the first time to see him,
three of his family died; and when they came the second time, three more died; and as this
rate of mortality was quite unusual in his family circle, he could only attribute it to foul
magic. The presence of people who brought such results was of course by no means desirable.
This neat message elicited with a declaration of the necessity of Budja's going to Gani with
us, and a response from the commander-in-chief, probably to terrify the Waganda, that although
Gani was only nine days' journey distant from Kamrasi's palace, the Gani people were such barbarians,
they would call a straight-haired man a magician, and any person who tied his mbugu in a knot
upon his shoulder, or had a full set of teeth as the Waganda have, would be surely killed by
them. Finally, we must wait two days, to see if Kamrasi would see us or not. Such was Unyoro
diplomacy.

An announcement of a different kind immediately followed. The king had heard that I gave a
cow to Vittagura and Kidgwiga when they first came to me in Uganda, and wished the Wanyamuezi
to ascertain if this was true. Of course, I said they were my guests in Uganda, and if they
had been wise they would have eaten their cow on the spot; what was that to Kamrasi? It was
a pity he did not treat us as well who have come into his country at his own invitation, instead
of keeping us starving in this gloomy wilderness, without a drop of pombe to cheer the day;--why
could not he let us go on? He wanted first to hear if the big Mzungu, meaning myself, had really
come yet. All fudge!

Three days were spent in simply waiting for return messages on both sides, and more might have
been lost in the same way, only we amused Vittagura and gave him confidence by showing our
pictures, looking-glass, scissors, knives, etc., when he promised a march in the morning, leaving
a man behind to bring on the Wanguana sent to Mtesa's, it being the only alternative which
would please Budja; for he said there was no security for life in Unyoro, where every Mkungu
calls himself the biggest man, and no true hospitality is to be found.

