"The volume consists of one hundred and twenty-nine separate poems, numbered but not named,
and which in the absence of a more specific designation may be called occasional; for though
they generally bear a reference to the leading subject, In Memoriam, yet they are not connected
with sufficient closeness to form a continuous piece. There is also an invocatory introduction,
and a closing marriage poem, written on the wedding of one of the writer's sisters, which,
strange as it may seem, serves again to introduce the memory of the departed. The intervening
poems are as various as a miscellaneous collection; but the remembrance of the dead ever mingles
with the thought of the living. His birth-day, his death-day, the festive rejoicings of Christmastide
and the New Year, recall him; the scenes in which he was a companion, the house where he was
a welcome guest, the season when the lawyer's vacation gave him leisure for a long visit, revive
him to the mind. The Danube, on whose banks he died--the Severn, by whose banks he appears
to have been buried--nay, the points of the compass--are associated with him. Sometimes the
association is slighter still; and in a few pieces the allusion is so distant that it would
not have been perceived without the clew. Such is the following (one of several poems) on the
New Year.

    CIV.

"The following is of more direct bearing on the theme, and is moreover one of those charming
pieces of domestic painting in which Tennyson excels.

    LXXXVII.

  Witch-elms that counterchange the floor
    Of this flat lawn with dusk and bright;
    And thou, with all thy breadth and height
  Of foliage, towering sycamore;

  How often, hither wandering down,
    My Arthur found your shadows fair.
    And shook to all the liberal air
  The dust and din and steam of town:

  He brought an eye for all he saw;
    He mixt in all our simple sports;
    They pleased him, fresh from brawling courts
  And dusky purlieus of the law.

  O joy to him in this retreat,
    Immantled in ambrosial dark,
    To drink the cooler air, and mark
  The landscape winking through the heat:

  O sound to rout the brood of cares,
    The sweep of scythe in morning dew,
    The gust that round the garden flew,
  And tumbled half the mellowing pears!

  O bliss, when all in circle drawn
    About him, heart and ear were fed
    To hear him, as he lay and read
  The Tuscan poets on the lawn:

  Or in the all-golden afternoon
    A guest, or happy sister, sung,
    Or here she brought the harp and flung
  A ballad to the brightening moon:

  Nor less it pleased in livelier moods,
    Beyond the bounding hill to stray.

  And brushing ankle-deep in flowers,
    We heard behind the woodbine vail
    The milk that bubbled in the pail,
  And buzzings of the honeyed hours.

"The volume is pervaded by a religious feeling, and an ardent aspiration for the advancement
of society,--as may be gathered from our first quotation. These two sentiments impart elevation,
faith, and resignation; so that memory, thought, and a chastened tenderness, generally predominate
over deep grief. The grave character of the theme forbids much indulgence in conceits such
as Tennyson sometimes falls into, and the execution is more finished than his volumes always
are: there are very few prosaic lines, and few instances of that excess of naturalness which
degenerates into the mawkish. The nature of the plan--which, after all, is substantially though
not in form a set of sonnets on a single theme--is favorable to those pictures of common landscape
and of daily life, redeemed from triviality by genial feeling and a perception of the lurking
beautiful, which are the author's distinguishing characteristic. The scheme, too, enables him
appropriately to indulge in theological and metaphysical reflections; where he is not quite
so excellent. Many of the pieces taken singly are happy examples of Tennyson, though not perhaps
the very happiest. As a whole, there is inevitably something of sameness in the work, and the
subject is unequal to its long expansion; yet its nature is such, there is so much of looseness
in the plan, that it might have been doubled or trebled without incongruity. It is one of those
books which depend upon individual will and feeling, rather than upon a broad subject founded
in nature and tractable by the largest laws of art. Hence, though not irrespective of laws,
such works depend upon instinctive felicity--felicity in the choice of topics and the mode
of execution, felicity both in doing and in leaving undone: this high and perfect excellence,
perhaps, In Memoriam has not reached, though omission and revision might lead very close to it."

[Footnote 1: In Memoriam. By Alfred Tennyson. 1 vol. 12mo. Boston: Ticknor, Reed & Fields. 1850.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ETHERIZATION.--A writer in the Medical Times says, "The day, perhaps, may not be far off, when
we shall be able to suspend the sensibility of the nervous chords, without acting on the center
of the nervous system, just as we are enabled to suspend circulation in an artery without acting
on the heart."

       *       *       *       *       *

LEIGH HUNT.

One of the most delightful books of the season will be The Autobiography of LEIGH HUNT, which
is being reprinted by Harper & Brothers, and will very soon be given to the American public
in an edition of suitable elegance. The last great race of poets and literary men, observes
a writer in the London Standard, is now rapidly vanishing from the scene: of the splendid constellation,
in the midst of which Campbell, Scott, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Shelley, Southey, Crabbe, and
Byron, were conspicuous, how few remain! Moore (rapidly declining), Rogers (upward of eighty),
Professor Wilson, Montgomery, and Leigh Hunt, are nearly all. It is fitting that we prize these
few, as the remnants of a magnificent group, which cannot be expected very soon to be repeated.

Leigh Hunt has, for nearly half a century, occupied a prominent place in the public eye, as
a politician of a peculiarly bold and decided stamp, when boldness was necessary for the utterance
of the truth; and as a poet and prose-writer of a singularly-genial and amiable character.
As the chief founder and critic of the Examiner, he would doubtless occupy a high place in
literary history, but as the author of "Rimini" he is entitled to a more enduring and enviable
fame. This will always stand at the head of his works: but his "Indicator," his "London Journal,"
his "Jar of Honey," and others, abound with the illustrations of a most imaginative and cordial
spirit.

We are glad to possess a good autobiography of Leigh Hunt. It is the first we have from a long
list of celebrated men; and no one could give us such correct, discerning, and delightful insights
into their usual life and true characters. Hazlitt, Lamb, Shelley, Keats, Byron, and a crowd
of others become familiar to us in these pages. It was in the Examiner that the first compositions
of Shelley and Keats were introduced to the British public; and the friendship which Mr. Hunt
maintained with those poets, till their deaths, casts a sunshine over that portion of his life,
which is peculiarly charming.

