It must be acknowledged that the manners and institutions of the country, and its people for
the most part, were little to Hawthorne's taste, and he showed this in his book about them;
but, for all that, he found the country interesting and often lovely in its picturesque antiquity
and softnesses of light and color, and he appreciated to the full the literary and historical
sentiment that most appeals to Americans of like education and breeding. He made many excursions
in different parts of England, and visited Scotland and the Isle of Man, and he lingered in
many towns and villages and was disposed to haunt old places with a pilgrim devotion. He loved
the face of the country, too, and notwithstanding its misted and dreary skies, especially over
Liverpool, he found some good words for its weather, its seasons, its long days, and all its
out-door look. He went about with the mind and senses of a tourist, satiating his instincts
for minute and detailed observation and writing it all down; in a spirit, too, of enjoyment
and discovery; and out of this satisfaction of his inveterate habits of observing and noting
and walking about with no other end in view, just as if he were taking an autumn stroll in
Salem, came the felicity of the English notes, which after all deductions is very great in
its own field of delicate sentiment and realistic grasp and the atmosphere of a mind. Hawthorne
was thoroughly happy in indulging his wandering propensity in such voyages of discovery; especially
in London he found a city that satisfied his idea of it, and he seems to have busied himself
there for days and weeks in merely going about from point to point and seeing the spectacle
of its vast and varied life. Hawthorne's English experiences will, perhaps, be best realized,
if he is thought of apart from literature, as a man much identified with the shipping interests
and commercial society of Liverpool, and attending to this business rather doggedly and wearily,
not especially liking the place or the people, whose ways and notions he was instinctively
against, being himself a settled New Englander of a strong race type; and yet, besides this,
a man who managed in his four years' residence to see a great deal of the length and breadth
of England, as a summer tourist might visit its shrines on pilgrimage. This describes his life,
nevertheless, only from the outside; as soon as one opens his note-books, his personality changes
the impression, and pervades even his least sympathetic pages with a human quality that wins
on the reader in spite of all reservations, and one sees how in the face of his prejudices
and limitations England was saved to him by his literary faculty, the interests, susceptibilities,
and powers that were his as a man of letters. One finds in his experience, too, besides the
consul and the man of letters, a kindly and simple manhood of a more primitive element, the
human heart in its own original right, as in the well-known incident of the workhouse child
who was so strangely drawn to him. Of the humane actions, however, of which any record remains,
none is so honorable as his considerateness, generosity, and conscientiousness in his correspondence
with Delia Bacon, whom he endured and befriended with infinite patience and delicacy; the letters
which he wrote to her show his character in a very noble light, and bring out one side of his
life which has little illustration, his habitual thoughtfulness for the weak. One recalls his
care for his Brook Farm friend Farley at Concord, for example; and all his relations with what
one may call the wayside acquaintance of life were to his honor.

One other incident must also find a place here, which completes an earlier story and rounds
out his own conception of integrity. On coming to Liverpool he had incurred heavy expenses,
but six months of his more fortunate days had not gone by before he sent to Hillard the money
which his friends had given to him in his sore need at Salem while he was writing "The Scarlet
Letter." His own words best express the feelings which led him to make this restitution:--

Liverpool, December 9, 1853.

Dear Hillard,--I herewith send you a draft on Ticknor for the sum (with interest included)
which was so kindly given me by unknown friends, through you, about four years ago.

I have always hoped and intended to do this, from the first moment when I made up my mind to
accept the money. It would not have been right to speak of this purpose before it was in my
power to accomplish it; but it has never been out of my mind for a single day, nor hardly,
I think, for a single working hour. I am most happy that this loan (as I may fairly call it,
at this moment) can now be repaid without the risk on my part of leaving my wife and children
utterly destitute. I should have done it sooner; but I felt that it would be selfish to purchase
the great satisfaction for myself, at any fresh risk to them. We are not rich, nor are we ever
likely to be; but the miserable pinch is over.

The friends who were so generous to me must not suppose that I have not felt deeply grateful,
nor that my delight at relieving myself from this pecuniary obligation is of any ungracious
kind. I have been grateful all along, and am more so now than ever. This act of kindness did
me an unspeakable amount of good; for it came when I most needed to be assured that anybody
thought it worth while to keep me from sinking. And it did me even greater good than this,
in making me sensible of the need of sterner efforts than my former ones, in order to establish
a right for myself to live and be comfortable. For it is my creed (and was so even at that
wretched time) that a man has no claim upon his fellow-creatures, beyond bread and water and
a grave, unless he can win it by his own strength or skill. But so much the kinder were those
unknown friends whom I thank again with all my heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

This money must have been the first he had saved, and he could now spare it from his income.
In the four years that he held the consulate he had held to his main purpose of laying by a
competency, and when he resigned, on August 31, 1857, his mind was at ease with regard to the
future for himself and his family. His gratitude for this late won independence, humble as
it was, must have been deeply felt, as is apparent from his letters at the time; a great weight
had been lifted from his spirit, and his happiness was such as only a man with his ideas of
personal independence could realize. He proposed now to linger in Europe for some time longer;
and when he was relieved from his duties in the fall he went with the family through France
to Italy, hoping that the southern winter would be of benefit to Mrs. Hawthorne's still uncertain
health.

Life in Italy proved far more agreeable than it had been in England, and there were periods
in it when Hawthorne enjoyed as great happiness in the placid course of the days as he ever
experienced. For the first time in his life he was free from the necessity of labor, and he
had recently escaped from that practical business of affairs and daily duties which was always
irksome to him. The change, too, from the dark skies of England and its grimy Liverpool materialism
to an atmosphere of sun and warmth and artistic beauty was itself enough to reanimate his spirit;
and he found at once some congenial society, and not a few who seemed to him like old friends.
He appears for the first time in his life really to live with other people, not as an occasional
visitant coming out of his hermitage, but as one of themselves. He sought out Story, who was
an old neighbor at Salem, though he had known him only slightly, and under his guidance he
mixed with the American artists then in Rome,--Miss Hosmer, Thompson, Kopes, and Miss Lander,--as
well as with others of the foreigners resident there, Miss Bremer, Mrs. Jameson, and Bryant
among the rest; and he became good friends with Motley and his family, whose companionship
he enjoyed in a very natural, frank way. The picturesque ruins of Home, its gardens and fountains
and the sky and air appealed to him, as if to new senses or at least to senses newly awakened
and developed; and he was sensibly attracted by the artistic works on every hand. He was not
wholly uncultivated in art, though his aesthetic sense had been rather a hope than a reality
all through his life. He had written to his wife before marriage, nearly twenty years ago,
"I never owned a picture in my life; yet pictures have been among the earthly possessions (and
they are spiritual ones too) which I most coveted;" and in his tales there is a recurring reference
to pictures as a part of his imaginative world. The influence of his wife's artistic tastes
in his home life had also been a kind of preparation for appreciation of the masterpieces,
many of which had long been familiar to his eyes and thoughts in reproductions. In his Boston
days he use to visit such collections of pictures as were accessible to him, and he knew sculpture
somewhat through casts. Such cultivation, however, was at best a very limited and incomplete
preparation, and did not preserve him from the tourist's weariness of galleries. He had wished
in London that the Elgin marbles had all been reduced to lime. There was something pictorial
in his genius, but painting was slower to give up its secrets to him than sculpture, which,
being a more abstract art and simpler in intention, as well as nearer to the living form, made
the easier appeal to him. He did not respond to Italian painting very perfectly at the best,
and his education hardly proceeded farther than an appreciation of the softer and brighter
works of Guido and Raphael, nor did he ever free himself from the intellectual prepossessions
of his mind. He did not become even an amateur in art, and he probably knew it; he had begun
too late to enter that world; and he contented himself with a moral sympathy, an apprehension
of idea and feeling, rather than the seeing eye and understanding heart by which one takes
possession of the artistic world as a free citizen there. It was not an important matter, however;
his comments on art have only a personal interest, lighting up his own nature; but, within
his limits, he enjoyed a new and great experience, one that illumined and softened his mind,
in his wanderings about the galleries and churches and his sittings in artists' studios. The
contemporary and native world of Italy he attended to but very little, noting its picturesque
aspects somewhat, but taking the slightest interest in its people; if he had felt a barrier
between himself and the English, here was a gulf of difference that it was hopeless to attempt
to pass over, and he left the Italians in the inaccessible foreignness in which he found them.

The first four months were spent at Rome, in this gradual opening of his mind to the new impressions
of the city, so fascinating to his imagination, and in establishing himself and his family
in the new society of their daily life. Late in May, 1858, they went north by the carriage
road, and settled at Florence in the Casa Bella, near Casa Guidi, where the Brownings were,
and not far from Powers's studio. In August they took possession of the old villa of Montaueto
on the hill of Bellosguardo, near the city, which is so closely associated with Hawthorne's
Italian days as the tower of Monte Beni. Here he began to write "The Marble Faun," shutting
himself up for an hour or two every day in the stern effort, as he describes it, of coming
"to close grip with a romance which I have been trying to tear out of my mind." The scene of
his labors was quite remote, such a place as he liked to have to write in, and he was undisturbed
unless it were by the Spiritualism of the Browning villa, where Mrs. Browning was a believer;
and, perhaps under the influence of this association, Mrs. Hawthorne showed more plainly her
natural inclination to a more than curious interest in the phenomena. She was, indeed, somewhat
a believer in the power of communication with the spiritual world, and its near presence and
influence in our lives. The seclusion of the villa of Montaueto was very grateful to Hawthorne,
and he writes of it to Fields with almost a home-feeling, as if he had again found a lodging
place at least for his wandering Penates:--

"It is pleasant to feel at last that I am really away from America--a satisfaction that I never
really enjoyed as long as I stayed in Liverpool, where it seemed to me that the quintessence
of nasal and hand-shaking Yankeedom was gradually filtered and sublimated through my consulate,
on the way outward and homeward. I first got acquainted with my own countrymen there. At Rome,
too, it was not much better. But here in Florence, and in the summer-time, and in this secluded
villa, I have escaped out of all my old tracks, and am really remote. I like my present residence
immensely. The house stands on a hill, overlooking Florence, and is big enough to quarter a
regiment, insomuch that each member of the family, including servants, has a separate suite
of apartments, and there are vast wildernesses of upper rooms into which we have never yet
sent exploring expeditions. At one end of the house there is a moss-grown tower, haunted by
owls and by the ghost of a monk who was confined there in the thirteenth century, previous
to being burnt at the stake in the principal square of Florence. I hire this villa, tower and
all, at twenty-eight dollars a month; but I mean to take it away bodily and clap it into a
romance, which I have in my head, ready to be written out."

The kind of life that was led by the family is more vividly sketched by his daughter in her
reminiscences of the time, and her pages afford the only full companion picture to those of
the Old Manse and the Berkshire cottage, and to some extent supply the lack of that autobiographic
background to "The Marble Faun" which the reader misses in Hawthorne's own preface.

"The walls of the hall and staircase were of gray stone, as were the steps which led echoingly
up to the second story of the house. My sister exclaims in delight concerning the whole scene:
'This villa,--you have no idea how delightful it is! I think there must be pretty nearly a
hundred rooms in it, of all shapes, sizes, and heights. The walls are never less than five
feet thick, and sometimes more, so that it is perfectly cool. I should feel very happy to live
here always. I am sitting in the loggia, which is delightful in the morning freshness. Oh,
how I love every inch of that beautiful landscape!' The tower and the adjacent loggia were
the features that preeminently sated our thirst for suggestive charm, and they became our proud
boast and the chief precincts of our daily life and social intercourse. The ragged gray giant
looked over the road-walls at its foot, and beyond and below them over the Arno valley, rimmed
atop with azure distance, and touched with the delicate dark of trees. Internally, the tower
(crowned, like a rough old king of the days of the Round Table, with a machicolated summit)
was dusty, broken, and somewhat dangerous of ascent. Owls that knew every wrinkle of despair
and hoot-toot of pessimism clung to narrow crevices in the deserted rooms, where the skeleton-like
prison frameworks at the unglazed windows were in keeping with the dreadful spirits of these
unregenerate anchorites. The forlorn apartments were piled one above the other until the historic
cylinder of stone opened to the sky. In contrast to the barrenness of the gray inclosures,
through the squares of the windows throbbed the blue and gold, green and lilac, of Italian
heavens and countryside....

"Some of the rooms at Montaueto I studiously avoided. The forlorn cavern of a parlor, or ballroom,
I remember to have seen only once. There was a painful vacuum where good spirits ought to have
been. Along the walls were fixed seats, like those in the apse of some morally fallen cathedral,
and they were covered with blue threadbare magnificence that told the secrets of vanity. Heavy
tables crowded down the centre of the room. I came, saw, and fled. The oratory was the most
thrilling place of all. It opened out of my sister's room, which was a large, sombre apartment.
It was said to attract a frequently seen ghost by the force of its profound twilight and historic
sorrows; and my sister, who was courageous enough to startle a ghost, highly approved of this
corner of her domain. But she suddenly lost her buoyant taste for disembodied spirits, and
a rumor floated mistily about that Una had seen the wretched woman who could not forget her
woes in death. In 'Monte Beni' this oratory is minutely pictured, where 'beneath the crucifix
... lay a human skull ... carved in gray alabaster, most skillfully done ... with accurate
imitation of the teeth, the sutures, the empty eye-caverns.' Everywhere the intense picturesqueness
gave material, at Montaueto, for my father's romance."

Amid such surroundings the new romance was sketched out, but not very much progress could have
been made with it. In October the family returned to Rome by way of Siena, where some happy
days were spent with Story,--a town which impressed Hawthorne almost temperamentally, standing
apart in his mind with Perugia. "A thoughtful, shy man," he says, "might settle down here with
the view of making the place a home, and spend many years in a sombre kind of happiness." At
Rome they settled again in the Piazza Poli, and entered on the winter days with much happiness,
feeling acquainted now and partly at home in the city. But a misfortune came to them in the
illness of Una, who was taken with Roman fever, and her life was despaired of. Hawthorne always
took his sorrows hard, and he suffered much in this period of anxiety, enduring in his stoic
way the heavy pressure; happily the doctor proved mistaken in his confidence that the child
would die, and though her illness was long, she gradually recovered strength. It was during
her convalescence that Pierce came to Rome, and Hawthorne found in his friendship a great support
and comfort. It is plain that Pierce was the only man that Hawthorne loved with his full heart,
and he had come to recognize the great place this friendship held in his life. His loyalty
to Pierce was a true tribute, and its expression does honor to both men:--

"I have found him here in Rome, the whole of my early friend, and even better than I used to
know him; a heart as true and affectionate, a mind much widened and deepened by the experience
of life. We hold just the same relation to one another as of yore, and we have passed all the
turning-off places, and may hope to go on together, still the same dear friends, as long as
we live. I do not love him one whit the less for having been President, nor for having done
me the greatest good in his power; a fact that speaks eloquently in his favor, and perhaps
says a little for myself. If he had been merely a benefactor, perhaps I might not have borne
it so well; but each did his best for the other, as friend for friend."

The illness of Una had thrown a shadow over these last days at Rome, and it was in any case
necessary to take her away.

They left Rome late in May and went by sea to Marseilles, and after a rapid journey up the
Rhone and to Geneva went by Paris to London. The return to England was somewhat like homecoming,
and during this second residence Hawthorne shows a more sympathetic and contented spirit. He
determined to finish his romance here, and settled first at Whitby and afterwards at Redcar,
and still later he migrated to Leamington; but the romance was mainly put into shape at Redcar,
where the necessary conditions of solitude were best realized. He lived very much as when he
had written his other works at home, writing in the morning and spending the rest of the day
with the children out of doors on the sands. He finished the book on November 8, and it was
published early the following spring. [Footnote: The Marble Faun, or the Romance of Monte Beni.
By Nathaniel Hawthorne, author of "The Scarlet Letter." Boston: Ticknor and Fields. 1860. 12mo.
2 vols., pp. 283; 288.]

Hawthorne came to the writing of "The Marble Faun" after his genius was matured, with his temperament
fully ripened, his intellectual and moral and artistic nature consonant in its varied play,
and at the height of his literary powers. The story is in one sense a culmination, and it is
perhaps his most complete expression of life; but it is less characteristic of him, less peculiarly
his own, than the American tales, notwithstanding its greater breadth, its finer beauty, and
its more profound mystery. In method he develops nothing new; the scheme, the manner, the tone
are the same already made familiar. He had recourse to his life abroad for the realism of the
scene, and took out of his note-books and memory the whole visible world of his romance, precisely
as he had formerly utilized the New England village life and the Brook Farm experience. He
has drunk in the charm of Italy and absorbed the picturesque and artistic atmosphere of Rome
and its religious impressiveness; he has taken most delicately and harmoniously into his sensitive
temperament the loveliness and the power of both the world of the past and the world of art,
and he renders them back in description as they were mirrored in himself; the stir of Roman
life, its antiquity, its still and immutable forms of picture and sculpture, are given back
with full sympathy and as clearly as the autumn woodland of the old Puritan town in his first
romance; and this realism, for such it is notwithstanding its glamour, is the substance of
the tale, though it is all surface, just as was the case with "The House of the Seven Gables."
He has done for Rome and Italy what he there did for Salem, different as the effect may seem,
owing to the greater nobility and dignity of the material.

