No. 55.]
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
      &c.                                                   405

  QUERIES:--
    Dryden's "Absalom and Achitophel"                       406
    Minor Queries:--The Widow of the Wood--Edward
      the Confessor's Crucifix and Gold Chain--Cardinal
      Erskine--Thomas Regiolapidensis--"Her Brow was
      fair"--Hoods worn by Doctors of Divinity of Aberdeen--Irish
      Brigade--Doctrine of immaculate Conception--Gospel
      Oak Tree at Kentish Town--Arminian
      Nunnery in Huntingdonshire--Ruding's
      annotated Langbaine--Mrs. Tempest--Sitting
      cross-legged--Twickenham:
      Did Elizabeth visit Bacon
      there?--Burial towards the West--Medal struck by
      Charles XII.--National Debt--Midwives licensed        406

  REPLIES:--
    The Black Rood of Scotland                              409
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Hæmony--Byron's Birthplace--Modena
      Family--Nicholas Breton's Fantasticks--Gaudentio
      di Lucca--Weights for weighing
      Coins--Mrs. Partington--The East-Anglican Word
      "Mauther"--Cheshire Cat--"Thompson of Esholt"--Minar's
      Book of Antiquities--Croziers and Pastoral
      Staves--Socinian Boast--MSS. of Locke--Sir Wm.
      Grant--Tristan d'Acunha--Arabic Numerals--Luther's
      Hymns--Bolton's Ace--Hopkins the
      Witchfinder--Sir Richard Steel--Ale-draper--George
      Herbert--Notaries Public--Tobacconists--Vineyards     410

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                  414
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                            415
    Notices to Correspondents                               415
    Advertisements                                          415

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

AUTHORSHIP OF "HENRY VIII."

In returning to the question of the authorship of Henry VIII., I am anxious to remove a misconception
under which MR. SPEDDING appears to labour relative to the purport of a remark I made in my
last communication to you (Vol. ii., p. 198.) on this subject. As we appear to be perfectly
agreed as to the reasons for assigning a considerable portion of this play to Fletcher, and
as upon this basis we have each worked out a result that so exactly coincides with the other,
I conclude that MR. SPEDDING, as well as myself, has rested his theory solely on positive grounds;
that is, that he imagines there is strong internal evidence in favour of all that he ascribes
to this writer. It follows, therefore that the "third hand" which he thought he detected must
be sought rather in what remained to Shakspeare, than in that which had been already taken
from him. I never for an instant doubted that this was MR. SPEDDING's view; but the inequality
which I supposed he had observed and accounted for in this way, I was disposed to refer to
a mode of composition that must needs have been troublesome to Shakspeare. The fact is, that,
with one or two exceptions, the scenes contributed by the latter are more tamely written than
any but the earliest among his works; and these, different as they are, they recalled to my
mind. But I have no doubt whatever that these scenes were all written about the same time;
my feeling being, that after the opening Shakspeare ceased to feel any great interest in the
work. Fletcher, on the other hand, would appear to have made a very great effort; and though
some portions of the work I ascribe to him are tedious and overlaboured, no censure would weigh
very strongly against the fact, that for more than two centuries they have been applauded as
the work of Shakspeare.

As to the circumstances under which Henry VIII. was composed, it is an exceedingly difficult
question; and if I venture, on the present occasion, to give the impression upon my mind, I
do so, reserving to myself the full right to change my opinion whenever I shall have acquired
more knowledge of the subject, or, from any other motive, shall see fit to do it. I consider
this case, then, as one of joint authorship; in point of time not much later than the Two Noble
Kinsmen, and in other respects similar to that play. If the conclusions of the article in the
Westminster Review, to which MR. SPEDDING alludes, be accepted, the writer of the introductory
notice to Henry VIII. in the Illustrated Shakspeare, published by Tyas, will recognise the
"reverent disciple" whom he hints at, but does not name. In short, I think that {402} Fletcher
was the pupil of Shakspeare; and this view, it appears to me, demands the serious attention
of the biographer who next may study or speculate upon the great poet's life.

I don't know that I can add anything to MR. SPEDDING'S able analysis of Henry VIII. There are
certain tricks of expression he, no doubt, has observed that characterise Fletcher's style,
and which abound in the play. It might be useful to make notes of these; and, at some future
time, I may send you a selection. I now beg to send you the following extracts, made some time
ago, showing the doubts entertained by previous writers on the subject:--

    "Though it is very difficult to decide whether short pieces be genuine
    or spurious, yet I cannot restrain myself from expressing my suspicion
    that neither the prologue nor epilogue to this play is the work of
    Shakspeare. It appears to me very likely that they were supplied by the
    friendship or officiousness of Jonson, whose manner they will be
    perhaps found exactly to resemble."--Johnson.

    "Play revived in 1613." "Prologue and epilogue added by Jonson or some
    other person."--Malone.

    "I entirely agree with Dr. Johnson, that Ben Jonson wrote the prologue
    and epilogue to this play. Shakspeare had a little before assisted him
    in his Sejanus.... I think I now and then perceive his hand in the
    dialogue."--Farmer.

    "That Jonson was the author of the prologue and epilogue to this play
    has been controverted by Mr. Gifford. That they were not the
    composition of Shakspeare himself is, I think, clear from internal
    evidence."--Boswell.

    "I entirely agree with Dr. Johnson with respect to the time when these
    additional lines were inserted.... I suspect they were added in 1613,
    after Shakspeare had quitted the stage, by that hand which tampered
    with the other parts of the play so much as to have rendered the
    versification of it of a different colour from all the other plays of
    Shakspeare."--Malone.

    "If the reviver of this play (or tamperer with it, as he is called by
    Mr. Malone) had so much influence over its numbers as to have entirely
    changed their texture, he must be supposed to have new-woven the
    substance of the whole piece; a fact almost incredible."--Steevens.

    The double character of Wolsey drawn by Queen Katherine and her
    attendant, is a piece of vigorous writing of which any other author but
    Shakspeare might have been proud; and the celebrated farewell of the
    Cardinal, with his exhortation to Cromwell, only wants that quickening,
    that vital something which the poet could have breathed into it, to be
    truly and almost incomparably great.

    "Our own conviction is that Shakspeare wrote a portion only of this
    play.

    "It cannot for a moment be supposed that any alteration of Shakspeare's
    text would be necessary, or would be allowed; as little is it to be
    supposed that Shakspeare would commence a play in his old-accustomed,
    various, and unequalled verse, and finish it in the easy, but somewhat
    lax and familiar, though not inharmonious numbers of a reverent
    disciple."--Tyas's Shakspeare, vol. iii. p. 441.

At the same time I made the following notes from Coleridge:--

          "Classification, 1802.
  3rd Epoch.  Henry VIII. Gelegenheitsgedicht.

          Classification, 1819.
  3rd Epoch.  Henry VIII., a sort of historical masque, or show-play." Rem.,
    vol. ii. p.160.

What is said in this last extract might be applied (as Coleridge, I feel no doubt, had he gone
one step farther into the subject, would have applied it) to the Shakspearian drama generally;
and tried by this test Henry VIII. must certainly be found wanting.

Before I conclude I am anxious to make an observation with regard to the extract from Mr. Emerson's
Representative Men (vol. ii. p. 307.). The essay from which this is taken, I presume to be
the same, in a printed form, as a lecture which I heard that gentleman deliver. With abundant
powers to form a judgment for himself, I should say that his mind had never been directed to
questions of this nature. Accident, perhaps, had drawn his attention to the style of Henry
VIII.; but, with reference to the general subject, he had received implicitly and unquestioned
the conclusions of authorities who have represented Shakspeare as the greatest borrower, plagiarist,
and imitator that all time has brought forth. This, however, did not shake his faith in the
poet's greatness; and to reconcile what to some would appear contradictory positions, he proposes
the fact, I might say the truism, that the greatest man is not the most original, but the "most
indebted" man. This, in the sense in which it is true, is saying no more than that the educated
man is better than the savage; but, in the apologetic sense intended, it is equivalent to affirming
that the greatest thief is the most respectable man. Confident in this morality, he assumes
a previous play to Shakspeare's; but it appears to me that he relies too much upon the "cadence"
of the lines: otherwise I could not account for his selecting as an "autograph" a scene that,
to my mind, bears "unmistakeable traits" of Fletcher's hand, and that, by whomsoever written,
is about the weakest in the whole play.

It is a branch of the subject which I have not yet fully considered; but MR. SPEDDING will
observe that the view I take does not interfere with the supposition that Fletcher revised
the play, {403} with additions for its revival in 1613; a task for the performance of which
he would probably have the consent of his early master.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON AUTHORS AND BOOKS, NO. IX.

Eustache Deschamps. Except in the two centuries next after the conquest, contemporaneous French
notices of early English writers seem to be of rather infrequent occurrence.

On this account, and on other accounts, the ballad addressed to Geoffrey Chaucer by Eustache
Deschamps deserves repetition. Its text requires to be established, in order that we may be
aware of its real obscurities--for no future memoir of Chaucer can be considered as complete,
without some reference to it.

The best authorities on Eustache Deschamps are MM. Crapelet, Raynouard, and Paulin Paris. To
M. Crapelet we are indebted for the publication of Poésies morales et historiques d'Eustache
Deschamps; to M. Raynouard, for an able review of the volume in the Journal des Savants; and
to M. Paulin Paris, for an account of the manuscript in which the numerous productions of the
author are preserved. Of the author himself, the learned M. Paris thus writes:--

    "On pourroit surnommer Eustache Deschamps le Rutebeuf du XIVe
    siècle.--Ses oeuvres comprennent des épitres, des discours en prose,
    des jeux dramatiques, des ouvrages latins, des apologues, un grand
    poème moral, et un infinité de ballades et rondeaux pieux, bouffons,
    satiriques," &c.

