Let us, however, use the utmost possible combination of critical magnanimity with critical
justice: and allow these precious additions, which did not form part of the "classical" or
"received" text of the author, not to count against him. For him they can only count with those
who still think the puerile and now hopelessly stale jests about Enoch and Elijah and that
sort of thing clever. But they can be either disregarded or at least left out of the judgment,
and it will yet remain true that the so-called Voyage is a very disappointing book indeed.
As this is one of the cases where the record of personal experience is not impertinent, I may
say that I first read it some forty years ago, when fresh from reading about it and its author
in "Théo's" prose; that I therefore came to it with every prepossession in its favour, and
strove to like it, or to think I did. I read it again, if I remember rightly, about the time
of the excitement about M. Rostand's Cyrano, and liked it less still; while when I re-read
it carefully for this chapter, I liked it least of all. There is, of course, a certain fancifulness
about the main idea of a man fastening bottles of dew round him in the expectation (which is
justified) that the sun's heat will convert the dew into steam and raise him from the ground.
But the reader (it is not necessary to pay him the bad compliment of explaining the reasons)
will soon see that the scheme is aesthetically awkward, if not positively ludicrous, and scientifically
absurd. Throwing off bottles to lower your level has a superficial resemblance to the actual
principles and practice of ballooning; but in the same way it will not here "work" at all.

This, however, would be a matter of no consequence whatever if the actual results of the experiment
were amusing. Unfortunately they are not. That the aeronaut's first miss of the Moon drops
him into the new French colony of Canada may have given Cyrano some means of interesting people
then; but, reversing the process noticed in the cases of Scarron and Furetière, it does not
in the least do so now. We get nothing out of it except some very uninteresting gibes at the
Jesuits, and, connected with these, some equally uninteresting discussions whether the flight
to the Moon is possible or not.

Still one hopes, like the child or fool of popular saying, for the Moon itself to atone for
Canada, and tolerates disappointment till one actually gets there. Alas! of all Utopias that
have ever been Utopiated, Cyrano's is the most uninteresting, even when its negative want of
interest does not change into something positively disagreeable. The Lunarians, though probably
intended to be, are hardly at all a satire on us Earth-dwellers. They are bigger, and, as far
as the male sex is concerned, apparently more awkward and uglier; and their ideas in religion,
morals, taste, etc., are a monotonously direct reversal of our orthodoxies. There is at least
one passage which the absence of all "naughty niceness" and the presence of the indescribably
nasty make a good "try" for the acme of the disgusting. More of it is less but still nasty;
much of it is silly; all of it is dull.[271]

Nevertheless it is not quite omissible in such a history as this, or in any history of French
literature. For it is a notable instance of the coming and, indeed, actual invasion, by fiction,
of regions which had hitherto been the province of more serious kinds; and it is a link, not
unimportant if not particularly meritorious, in the chain of the eccentric novel. Lucian of
course had started it long ago, and Rabelais had in a fashion taken it up but a century before.
But the fashioners of new commonwealths and societies, More, Campanella, Bacon, had been as
a rule very serious. Cyrano, in his way, was serious too; but the way itself was not one of
those for which the ticket has been usually reserved. This is La Princesse de Clèves, by Marie
Madeleine Pioche de Lavergne, Comtesse de la Fayette, friend of Madame de Sévigné and of Huet;
more or less Platonic, and at any rate last, love of La Rochefoucauld; a woman evidently of
great charm as well as of great ability, and apparently of what was then irreproachable character.
She wrote, besides other matter of no small literary value and historical interest, four novels,
the minor ones, which require no special notice here, being Zaïde, La Comtesse de Tende, and
(her opening piece) Madame de Montpensier. Their motives and methods are much the same as those
of the Princesse de Clèves, but this is much more effectively treated. In fact, it is one of
the very few highly praised books, at the beginnings of departments of literature, which ought
not to disappoint candid and not merely studious readers.

It begins with a sketch, very cleverly done, of the Court of Henri II., with the various prominent
personages there--the King and the Queen, Diane de Poitiers, Queen Mary of Scotland ("La Reine
Dauphine"), "Madame, soeur du Roi" (the second Margaret of Valois--not so clever as her aunt
and niece namesakes, and not so beautiful as the latter, but, like both of them, a patroness
of men of letters, especially Ronsard, and apparently a very amiable person, though rude things
were said of her marriage, rather late in life, to the Duke of Savoy), with many others of,
or just below, royal blood. Of these latter there are Mademoiselle de Chartres, the Prince
de Clèves, whom she marries, and the Duc de Nemours, who completes the usual "triangle."[272]
As is also usual--in a way not unconnected in its usuality with that of triangular sequences--the
Princess has more amitié and estime than amour for her husband, though he, less usually, is
desperately in love with her. So, very shortly, is Nemours, who is represented as an almost
irresistible lady-killer, though no libertine, and of the "respectful" order. His conduct is
not quite that of the Elizabethan or Victorian ideal gentleman; for he steals his mistress's
portrait while it is being shown to a mixed company; eavesdrops (as will be seen presently)
in the most atrocious manner; chatters about his love affairs in a way almost worse; and skulks
round the Princess's country garden at night in a manner exceedingly unlikely to do his passion
any good, and nearly certain to do (as it does) her reputation much harm. Still, if not an
Amadis, he is not in the least a Lovelace, and that is saying a good deal for a French noble
of his time. The Princess slowly falls in love with him (she has seen him steal the portrait,
though he does not know this and she dares say nothing for fear of scandal); and divers Court
and other affairs conduct this concealed amourette (for she prevents all "declaration") in
a manner very cleverly and not too tediously told, to a point when, though perfectly virtuous
in intention, she feels that she is in danger of losing self-control.

[Sidenote: Its central scene.]

Probably, though it is the best known part of the book, it may be well to give the central
scene, where M. de Nemours plays the eavesdropper to M. and Mme. de Clèves, and overhears the
conversation which, with equal want of manners and of sense, he afterwards (it is true, without
names) retails to the Vidame de Chartres, a relation of Mme. de Clèves herself, and a well-known
gossip, with a strong additional effect on the fatal consequences above described. It is pretty
long, and some "cutting" will be necessary.

     He[273] heard M. de Clèves say to his wife, "But why do you
     wish not to return to Paris? What can keep you in the
     country? For some time past you have shown a taste for
     solitude which surprises me and pains me, because it keeps
     us apart. In fact, I find you sadder than usual, and I am
     afraid that something is annoying you." "I have no
     mind-trouble," she answered with an embarrassed air; "but
     the tumult of the Court is so great, and there is always so
     much company at home, that both body and mind must needs
     grow weary, and one wants only rest." "Rest," replied he,
     "is not the proper thing for a person of your age. Your
     position is not, either at home or at Court, a fatiguing
     one, and I am rather afraid that you do not like to be with
     me." "You would do me a great injustice if you thought so,"
     said she with ever-increasing embarrassment, "but I entreat
     you to leave me here. If you would stay too, I should be
     delighted--if you would stay here alone and be good enough
     to do without the endless number of people who never leave
     you." "Oh! Madam," cried M. de Clèves, "your looks and your
     words show me that you have reasons for wishing to be alone
     which I do not know, and which I beg you to tell me." He
     pressed her a long time to do so without being able to
     induce her, and after excusing herself in a manner which
     increased the curiosity of her husband, she remained in deep
     silence with downcast eyes. Then suddenly recovering her
     speech, and looking at him, "Do not force me," said she, "to
     a confession which I am not strong enough to make, though I
     have several times intended to do so. Think only that
     prudence forbids a woman of my age, who is her own
     mistress,[274] to remain exposed to the trials[275] of a
     Court." "What do you suggest, Madame?" cried M. de Clèves.
     "I dare not put it in words for fear of offence." She made
     no answer, and her silence confirming her husband in his
     thought, he went on: "You tell me nothing, and that tells me
     that I do not deceive myself." "Well then, Sir!" she
     answered, throwing herself at his feet, "I will confess to
     you what never wife has confessed to her husband; but the
     innocence of my conduct and my intentions gives me strength
     to do it. It is the truth that I have reasons for quitting
     the Court, and that I would fain shun the perils in which
     people of my age sometimes find themselves. I have never
     shown any sign of weakness, and I am not afraid of allowing
     any to appear if you will allow me to retire from the Court,
     or if I still had Mme. de Chartres to aid in guarding me.
     However risky may be the step I am taking, I take it
     joyfully, as a way to keep myself worthy of being yours. I
     ask your pardon a thousand times if my sentiments are
     disagreeable to you; at least my actions shall never
     displease you. Think how--to do as I am doing--I must have
     more friendship and more esteem for you than any wife has
     ever had for any husband. Guide me, pity me, and, if you
     can, love me still." M. de Clèves had remained, all the time
     she was speaking, with his head buried in his hands, almost
     beside himself; and it had not occurred to him to raise his
     wife from her position. When she finished, he cast his eyes
     upon her and saw her at his knees, her face bathed in tears,
     and so admirably lovely that he was ready to die of grief.
     But he kissed her as he raised her up, and said:

