Transcriber Notes:

  1. Several misprints corrected. A complete list of corrections may be
     found at the end of the text.

  2. Symbol of a hand pointing right has been replaced with a right
     arrow: ==>.

                    HOW TO SUCCEED;

                          OR,

         Stepping-Stones to Fame and Fortune.

CONTENTS

     CHAPTER.                           PAGE.

         I. First, Be a Man,                5
        II. Seize Your Opportunity,        14
       III. How Did He Begin?              27
        IV. Out of Place,                  49
         V. What Shall I Do?               58
        VI. Will You Pay the Price?        66
       VII. Foundation Stones,             81
      VIII. The Conquest of Obstacles,     99
        IX. Dead in Earnest,              115
         X. To Be Great, Concentrate,     128
        XI. At Once,                      140
       XII. Thoroughness,                 149
      XIII. Trifles,                      160
       XIV. Courage,                      169
        XV. Will Power,                   183
       XVI. Guard Your Weak Point,        192
      XVII. Stick,                        209
     XVIII. Save,                         220
       XIX. Live Upward,                  229
        XX. Sand,                         238
       XXI. Above Rubies,                 256
      XXII. Moral Sunshine,               275
     XXIII. Hold Up Your Head,            287
      XXIV. Books and Success,            296
       XXV. Riches Without Wings,         318

HOW TO SUCCEED.

CHAPTER I.

FIRST, BE A MAN.

     The great need at this hour is manly men. We want no
     goody-goody piety; we have too much of it. We want men who will
     do right, though the heavens fall, who believe in God, and who
     will confess Him.
     --REV. W. J. DAWSON.

"I thank God I am a Baptist," said a little, short Doctor of Divinity, as he mounted a step
at a convention. "Louder! louder!" shouted a man in the audience; "we can't hear." "Get up
higher," said another. "I can't," replied the doctor, "to be a Baptist is as high as one can get."

But there is something higher than being a Baptist, and that is being a man.

"First of all," replied the boy James A. Garfield, when asked what he meant to be, "I must
make myself a man; if I do not succeed in that, I can succeed in nothing."

"Hear me, O men," cried Diogenes, in the market place at Athens; and, when a crowd collected
around him, he said scornfully, "I called for men, not pigmies."

Dispense with the doctor by being temperate; the lawyer by keeping out of debt; the demagogue,
by voting for honest men; and poverty, by being industrious.

"The body of an athlete and the soul of a sage," wrote Voltaire to Helvetius; "these are what
we require to be happy."

Although millions are out of employment in the United States, how difficult it is to find a
thorough, reliable, self-dependent, industrious man or woman, young or old, for any position,
whether as a domestic servant, an office boy, a teacher, a brakeman, a conductor, an engineer,
a clerk, a bookkeeper, or whatever we may want. It is almost impossible to find a really competent
person in any department, and oftentimes we have to make many trials before we can get a position
fairly well filled.

It is a superficial age; very few prepare for their work. Of thousands of young women trying
to get a living at typewriting, many are so ignorant, so deficient in the common rudiments
even, that they spell badly, use bad grammar, and know scarcely anything of punctuation. In
fact, they murder the English language. They can copy, "parrot like," and that is about all.

The same superficiality is found in nearly all kinds of business. It is next to impossible
to get a first-class mechanic; he has not learned his trade; he has picked it up, and botches
everything he touches, spoiling good material and wasting valuable time.

In the professions, it is true, we find greater skill and faithfulness, but usually they have
been developed at the expense of mental and moral breadth.

The merely professional man is narrow; worse than that, he is in a sense an artificial man,
a creature of technicalities and specialties, removed alike from the broad truth of nature
and from the healthy influence of human converse. In society, the most accomplished man of
mere professional skill is often a nullity; he has sunk his personality in his dexterity.

"The aim of every man," said Humboldt, "should be to secure the highest and most harmonious
development of his powers to a complete and consistent whole."

Some men impress us as immense possibilities. They seem to have a sweep of intellect that is
grand; a penetrative power that is phenomenal; they seem to know everything, to have read everything,
to have seen everything. Nothing seems to escape the keenness of their vision. But somehow
they are forever disappointing our expectations. They raise great hopes only to dash them.
They are men of great promise, but they never pay. There is some indefinable want in their make-up.

What the world needs is a clergyman who is broader than his pulpit, who does not look upon
humanity with a white neckcloth ideal, and who would give the lie to the saying that the human
race is divided into three classes: men, women and ministers. Wanted, a clergyman who does
not look upon his congregation from the standpoint of old theological books, and dusty, cobweb
creeds, but who sees the merchant as in his store, the clerk as making sales, the lawyer pleading
before the jury, the physician standing over the sick bed; in other words, who looks upon the
great throbbing, stirring, pulsing, competing, scheming, ambitious, impulsive, tempted, mass
of humanity as one of their number, who can live with them, see with their eyes, hear with
their ears, and experience their sensations.

Wanted, a shopkeeper who does not discuss markets wherever he goes. A man should be so much
larger than his calling, so broad and symmetrical in his culture, that he would not talk shop
in society, that no one would suspect how he gets his living.

Nothing is more apparent in this age of specialties than the dwarfing, crippling, mutilating
influence of occupations or professions. Specialties facilitate commerce, and promote efficiency
in the professions, but are often narrowing to individuals. The spirit of the age tends to
doom the lawyer to a narrow life of practice, the business man to a mere money-making career.

Think of a man, the grandest of God's creations, spending his life-time standing beside a machine
for making screws. There is nothing to call out his individuality, his ingenuity, his powers
of balancing, judging, deciding.

He stands there year after year, until he seems but a piece of mechanism. His powers, from
lack of use, dwindle to mediocrity, to inferiority, until finally he becomes a mere part of
the machine he tends.

As Nature tries every way to induce us to obey her laws by rewarding their observance with
health, pleasure and happiness, and punishes their violation by pain and disease, so she resorts
to every means to induce us to expand and develop the great possibilities she has implanted
within us. She nerves us to the struggle, beneath which all great blessings are buried, and
beguiles the tedious marches by holding up before us glittering prizes, which we may almost
touch, but never quite possess. She covers up her ends of discipline by trial, of character
building through suffering by throwing a splendor and glamour over the future; lest the hard,
dry facts of the present dishearten us, and she fail in her great purpose. How else could Nature
call the youth away from all the charms that hang around young life, but by presenting to his
imagination pictures of future bliss and greatness which will haunt his dreams until he resolves
to make them real. As a mother teaches her babe to walk, by holding up a toy at a distance,
not that the child may reach the toy, but that it may develop its muscles and strength, compared
with which the toys are mere baubles; so Nature goes before us through life, tempting us with
higher and higher toys, but ever with one object in view--the development of the man.

CHAPTER II.

SEIZE YOUR OPPORTUNITY.

     "The blowing winds are but our servants
     When we hoist a sail."

     You must come to know that each admirable genius is but a
     successful diver in that sea whose floor of pearls is all your
     own.
     --EMERSON.

     The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his
     opportunity when it comes.
     --DISRAELI.

     Do the best you can where you are; and, when that is
     accomplished, God will open a door for you, and a voice will
     call, "Come up hither into a higher sphere."
     --BEECHER.

"When I was a boy," said General Grant, "my mother one morning found herself without butter
for breakfast, and sent me to borrow some from a neighbor. Going into the house without knocking,
I overheard a letter read from the son of a neighbor, who was then at West Point, stating that
he had failed in examination and was coming home. I got the butter, took it home, and, without
waiting for breakfast ran to the office of the congressman for our district. 'Mr. Hamer,' I
said, 'will you appoint me to West Point?' 'No, ---- is there, and has three years to serve.'
'But suppose he should fail, will you send me?' Mr. Hamer laughed. 'If he don't go through,
no use for you to try, Uly.' 'Promise me you will give me the chance, Mr. Hamer, anyhow.' Mr.
Hamer promised. The next day the defeated lad came home, and the congressman, laughing at my
sharpness, gave me the appointment. Now," said Grant, "it was my mother's being without butter
that made me general and president." But he was mistaken. It was his own shrewdness to see
the chance, and the promptness to seize it, that urged him upward.

The utmost which can be said about the matter is, that circumstances will, and do combine to
help men at some periods of their lives, and combine to thwart them at others. Thus much we
freely admit; but there is no fatality in these combinations, neither any such thing as "luck"
or "chance," as commonly understood. They come and go like all other opportunities and occasions
in life, and if they are seized upon and made the most of, the man whom they benefit is fortunate;
but if they are neglected and allowed to pass by unimproved, he is unfortunate.

"Charley," says Moses H. Grinnell to a clerk born in New York City, "take my overcoat tip to
my house on Fifth Avenue." Mr. Charley takes the coat, mutters something about "I'm not an
errand boy. I came here to learn business," and moves reluctantly. Mr. Grinnell sees it, and
at the same time one of his New England clerks says, "I'll take it up." "That is right, do
so," says Mr. G., and to himself he says, "that boy is smart, he will work," and he gives him
plenty to do. He gets promoted, gets the confidence of business men as well as of his employers,
and is soon known as a successful man. If he has his health, nothing can keep him from success.

Zion's Herald says that Isaac Rich, who gave one million and three quarters to found Boston
University of the Methodist Episcopal Church, began business thus: at eighteen he went from
Cape Cod to Boston with three or four dollars in his possession, and looked about for something
to do, rising early, walking far, observing closely, reflecting much. Soon he had an idea:
he bought three bushels of oysters, hired a wheelbarrow, found a piece of board, bought six
small plates, six iron forks, a three-cent pepper-box, and one or two other things. He was
at the oyster-boat buying his oysters at three o'clock in the morning, wheeled them three miles,
set up his board near a market, and began business. He sold out his oysters as fast as he could
get them, at a good profit. In that same market he continued to deal in oysters and fish for
forty years, became king of the business, and ended by founding a college. His success was
won by industry and honesty.

"Give me a chance," says Haliburton's Stupid, "and I will show you." But most likely he has
had his chance already and neglected it.

"Well, boys," said Mr. A., a New York merchant, to his four clerks one winter morning in 1815,
"this is good news. Peace has been declared. Now we must be up and doing. We shall have our
hands full, but we can do as much as anybody."

He was owner and part owner of several ships lying dismantled during the war, three miles up
the river, which was covered with ice an inch thick. He knew that it would be a month before
the ice yielded for the season, and that thus the merchants in other towns where the harbors
were open, would have time to be in the foreign markets before him. His decision therefore
was instantly taken.

"Reuben," he continued, addressing one of his clerks, "go and collect as many laborers as possible
to go up the river. Charles, do you find Mr.----, the rigger, and Mr.----, the sailmaker, and
tell them I want them immediately. John, engage half-a-dozen truckmen for to-day and to-morrow.
Stephen, do you hunt up as many gravers and caulkers as you can, and hire them to work for
me." And Mr. A. himself sallied forth to provide the necessary implements for icebreaking.
Before twelve o'clock that day, upward of an hundred men were three miles up the river, clearing
the ships and cutting away ice, which they sawed out in large squares, and then thrust under
the main mass to open up the channel. The roofing over the ships was torn off, and the clatter
of the caulkers' mallets was like to the rattling of a hail-storm, loads of rigging were passed
up on the ice, riggers went to and fro with belt and knife, sailmakers busily plied their needles,
and the whole presented an unusual scene of stir and activity and well-directed labor. Before
night the ships were afloat, and moved some distance down the channel; and by the time they
had reached the wharf, namely, in some eight or ten days, their rigging and spars were aloft,
their upper timbers caulked, and everything ready for them to go to sea.

Thus Mr. A. competed on equal terms with the merchants of open seaports. Large and quick gains
rewarded his enterprise, and then his neighbors spoke depreciatingly of his "good luck." But,
as the writer from whom we get the story says, Mr. A. was equal to his opportunity, and this
was the secret of his good fortune. They discovered after arriving at Sacramento, after they
had thrown most of the pebbles away, that they were all diamonds.

A man was once sitting in an uncomfortable chair in Boston talking with a friend as to what
he could do to help mankind. "I should think it would be a good thing," said the friend, "to
begin by getting up an easier and cheaper chair."

"I will do it," he exclaimed, leaping up and examining the chair. He found a great deal of
rattan thrown away by the East India merchant ships, whose cargoes were wrapped in it. He began
the manufacture of rattan chairs and other furniture, and has astonished the world by what
he has done with what was before thrown away. While this man was dreaming about some far off
success, he at that very time had fortune awaiting only his ingenuity and industry.

If you want to get rich, study yourself and your own wants. You will find millions of others
have the same wants, the same demands. The safest business is always connected with men's prime
necessities. They must have clothing, dwellings; they must eat.

But it is detrimental to the highest success to undertake anything merely because it is profitable.
If the vocation does not supply a human want, if it is not healthful, if it is degrading, if
it is narrowing, don't touch it.

A selfish vocation never pays. If it belittles the manhood, blights the affections, dwarfs
the mental life, chills the charities and shrivels the soul, don't touch it. Choose that occupation,
if possible, which will be the most helpful to the largest number.

One of the greatest hindrances to advancement and promotion in life is the lack of observation
and the disinclination to take pains. A keen, cultivated observation will see a fortune where
others see only poverty. Want has been the great schoolmaster of the race: necessity has been
the mother of all great inventions. Ericsson began the construction of a screw-propeller in
a bath-room.

Opportunities? They crowd around us. These men did not study the wants of humanity. After that
he made it a rule never to buy anything which people did not want.

The first thing a youth, entering the city to make his home there, needs to do is to make himself
a necessity to the person who employs him, according to the Boston Herald. Whatever he may
have been at home, it counts for nothing until he has done something that makes known the quality
of the stuff that is in him. If he shirks work, however humble it may be, the work will soon
be inclined to shirk him. But the youth who comes into a city to make his way in the world,
and is not afraid of doing his best whether he is paid for it or not, is not long in finding
remunerative employment. The people who seem so indifferent to employing young people from
the country are eagerly watching for the newcomers, but they look for qualities of character
and service in actual work before they manifest confidence or give recognition. It is the youth
who is deserving that wins his way to the front, and when once he has been tested his promotion
is only a question of time. It is the same with young women. There are seemingly no places
for them where they can earn a decent living, but the moment they fill their places worthily
there is room enough for them, and progress is rapid. What the city people desire most is to
find those who have ability to take important places, and the question of gaining a position
in the city resolves itself at once into the question of what the young persons have brought
with them from home. It is the staying qualities that have been in-wrought from childhood which
are now in requisition, and the success of the boy or girl is determined by the amount of energetic
character that has been developed in the early years at home. Take up the experience of every
man or woman who has made a mark in the city for the last hundred years, and it has been the
sterling qualities of the home training that have constituted the success of later years.

Don't think you have no chance in life because you have no capital to begin with. Most of the
rich men of to-day began poor. The chances are you would be ruined if you had capital. You
can only use to advantage what has become a part of yourself by your earning it. It is estimated
that not one rich man's son in ten thousand dies rich. God has given every man a capital to
start with; we are born rich. He is rich who has good health, a sound body, good muscles; he
is rich who has a good head, a good disposition, a good heart; he is rich who has two good
hands, with five chances on each. Equipped? Every man is equipped as only God could equip him.
What a fortune he possesses in the marvelous mechanism of his body and mind. It is individual
effort that has accomplished everything worth accomplishing in this world. Money to start with
is only a crutch, which, if any misfortune knocks it from under you, would only make your fall
all the more certain.

CHAPTER III.

HOW DID HE BEGIN?

"Fifty years ago," said Hezekiah Conant, the millionaire manufacturer and philanthropist of
Pawtucket, R. I., "I persuaded my father to let me leave my home in Dudley, Mass., and strike
out for myself. So one morning in May, 1845, the old farm horse and wagon was hitched up, and,
dressed in our Sunday clothes, father and I started for Worcester. Our object was to get me
the situation offered by an advertisement in the Worcester County Gazette as follows:

     BOY WANTED.

     WANTED IMMEDIATELY.--At the Gazette Office, a well disposed
     boy, able to do heavy rolling. Worcester, May 7.

"The financial inducements were thirty dollars the first year, thirty-five the next, and forty
dollars the third year and board in the employer's family. These conditions were accepted,
and I began work the next day. The Gazette was an ordinary four-page sheet. I soon learned
what 'heavy rolling' meant for the paper was printed on a 'Washington' hand-press, the edition
of about 2000 copies requiring two laborious intervals of about ten hours each, every week.
The printing of the outside was generally done Friday and kept me very busy all day. The inside
went to press about three or four o'clock Tuesday afternoon, and it was after three o'clock
on Wednesday morning before I could go to bed, tired and lame from the heavy rolling. In addition,
I also had the laborious task of carrying a quantity of water from the pump behind the block
around to the entrance in front, and then up two flights of stairs, usually a daily job. I
was at first everybody's servant. I was abused, called all sorts of nicknames, had to sweep
out the office, build fires in winter, run errands, post bills, carry papers, wait on the editor,
in fact I led the life of a genuine printer's devil; but when I showed them at length that
I had learned to set type and run the press, I got promoted, and another boy was hired to succeed
to my task, with all its decorations. That was my first success, and from that day to this
I have never asked anybody to get me a job or situation, and never used a letter of recommendation;
but when an important job was in prospect the proposed employers were given all facilities
to learn of my abilities and character. If some young men are easily discouraged, I hope they
may gain encouragement and strength from my story. It is a long, rough road at first, but,
like the ship on the ocean, you must lay your course for the place where you hope to land,
and take advantage of all favoring circumstances."

At the World's Fair in New York in 1853 President Pierce might have been seen watching a young
man exhibiting a patent rat trap. He was attracted by the enthusiasm and diligence of the young
man, but never dreamed that he would become one of the richest men in the world. It seemed
like small business for Jay Gould to be exhibiting a rat trap, but he did it well and with
enthusiasm. In fact he was bound to do it as well as it could be done. Young Gould supported
himself by odd jobs at surveying, paying his way by erecting sundials for farmers at a dollar
apiece, frequently taking his pay in board. Thus he laid the foundation for the business career
in which he became so rich. For several years he was Marshal of the District of Columbia. He
became the first colored man in the United States, the peer of any man in the country, and
died honored by all in 1895.

"I learned grammar when I was a private soldier on the pay of sixpence a day," said William
Cobbett.

"I have talked with great men," Lincoln told his fellow-clerk and friend, Greene, according
to McClure's Magazine, "and I do not see how they differ from others."

He made up his mind to put himself before the public, and talked of his plans to his friends.
In order to keep in practice in speaking he walked seven or eight miles to debating clubs.
"Practicing polemics," was what he called the exercise.

He seems now for the first time to have begun to study subjects. Grammar was what he chose.
He sought Mentor Graham, the schoolmaster, and asked his advice.

"If you are going before the public," Mr. Graham told him, "you ought to do it."

But where could he get a grammar? There was but one in the neighborhood, Mr. Graham said, and
that was six miles away.

Without waiting for more information the young man rose from the breakfast-table, walked immediately
to the place, borrowed this rare copy of Kirkham's Grammar, and before night was deep in its
mysteries. From that time on for weeks he gave every moment of his leisure to mastering the
contents of the book. Frequently he asked his friend Greene to "hold the book" while he recited,
and when puzzled by a point he would consult Mr. Graham.

Lincoln's eagerness to learn was such that the whole neighborhood became interested. The Greenes
lent him books, the schoolmaster kept him in mind and helped him as he could, and even the
village cooper let him come into his shop and keep up a fire of shavings sufficiently bright
to read by at night. It was not long before the grammar was mastered.

"Well," Lincoln said to his fellow-clerk, Greene, "if that's what they call science, I think
I'll go at another."

He had made another discovery--that he could conquer subjects.

The poor and friendless lad, George Peabody, weary, footsore and hungry, called at a tavern
in Concord, N. H., and asked to be allowed to saw wood for lodging and breakfast. Half a century
later he called there again, but then George Peabody was one of the greatest millionaire bankers
of the world. Bishop Fowler says: "It is one of the greatest encouragements of our age, that
ordinary men with extraordinary industry reach the highest stations."

Greeley's father, because the boy tried to yoke the off ox on the near side, said: "Ah! that
boy will never get along in the world. He'll never know enough to come in when it rains."

He was too poor to wear stockings. But Horace persevered, and became one of the greatest editors
of his century.

Handel's father hated music, and would not allow a musical instrument in the house; but the
boy with an aim secured a little spinet, hid it in the attic, where he practiced every minute
he could steal without detection, until he surprised the great players and composers of Europe
by his wonderful knowledge of music. He was very practical in his work, and studied the taste
and sensitiveness of audiences until he knew exactly what they wanted; then he would compose
something to supply the demand. He analyzed the effect of sounds and combinations of sounds
upon the senses, and wrote directly to human needs. His greatest work, "The Messiah," was composed
in Dublin for the benefit of poor debtors who were imprisoned there. The influence of this
masterpiece was tremendous. It was said it out-preached the preacher, out-prayed prayers, reformed
the wayward, softened stony hearts, as it told the wonderful story of redemption, in sound.

A. T. Stewart began life as a teacher in New York at $300 a year. He soon resigned and began
that career as a merchant in which he achieved a success almost without precedent. Honesty,
one price, cash on delivery, and business on business principles were his invariable rules.
Absolute regularity and system reigned in every department. In fifty years he made a fortune
of from thirty to forty million dollars. He was nominated as Secretary of the Treasury in 1869,
but it was found that the law forbids a merchant to occupy that position. He offered to resign,
or to give the entire profits of his business to the poor of New York as long as he should
remain in office. President Grant declined to accept such an offer.

Poor Kepler struggled with constant anxieties, and told fortunes by astrology for a livelihood,
saying that astrology as the daughter of astronomy ought to keep her mother; but fancy a man
of science wasting precious time over horoscopes. "I supplicate you," he writes to Moestlin,
"if there is a situation vacant at Tübingen, do what you can to obtain it for me, and let me
know the prices of bread and wine and other necessaries of life, for my wife is not accustomed
to live on beans." He had to accept all sorts of jobs; he made almanacs, and served anyone
who would pay him.

Who could have predicted that the modest, gentle boy, Raphael, without either riches or noted
family, would have worked his way to such renown, or that one of his pictures, but sixty-six
and three-quarter inches square (the Mother of Jesus), would be sold to the Empress of Russia,
for $66,000? His Ansedei Madonna, was bought by the National Gallery for $350,000. Think of
Michael Angelo working for six florins a month, and eighteen years on St. Peter's for nothing!

Dr. Johnson was so afflicted with king's-evil that he lost the use of one eye. The youth could
not even engage in the pastimes of his mates, as he could not see the gutter without bending
his head down near the street. He read and studied terribly. Finally a friend offered to send
him to Oxford, but he failed to keep his promise, and the boy had to leave. He returned home,
and soon afterward his father died insolvent. He conquered adverse fortune and bodily infirmities
with the fortitude of a true hero.

Ichabod Washburn, a poor boy born near Plymouth Rock, was apprenticed to a blacksmith in Worcester,
Mass., and was so bashful that he scarcely dared to eat in the presence of others; but he determined
that he would make the best wire in the world, and would contrive ways and means to manufacture
it in enormous quantities. At that time there was no good wire made in the United States. One
house in England had the monopoly of making steel wire for pianos for more than a century.
Young Washburn, however, had grit, and was bound to succeed. His wire became the standard everywhere.
At one time he made 250,000 yards of iron wire daily, consuming twelve tons of metal, and requiring
the services of seven hundred men. He amassed an immense fortune, of which he gave away a large
part during his life, and bequeathed the balance to charitable institutions.

John Jacob Astor left home at seventeen to acquire a fortune. His capital consisted of two
dollars, and three resolutions,--to be honest, to be industrious and not to gamble. Two years
later he reached New York, and began work in a fur store at two dollars a week and his board.
Soon learning the details of the business, he began operations on his own account. By giving
personal attention to every purchase and sale, roaming the woods to trade with the Indians,
or crossing the Atlantic to sell his furs at a great profit in England, he soon became the
leading fur dealer in the United States. His idea of what constitutes a fortune expanded faster
than his acquisitions. At fifty he owned millions; at sixty his millions owned him. He invested
in land, becoming in time the richest owner of real estate in America. Generous to his family,
he seldom gave much for charity. He once subscribed fifty dollars for some benevolent purpose,
when one of the committee of solicitation said, "We did hope for more, Mr. Astor. Your son
gave us a hundred dollars." "Ah!" chuckled the rich furrier, "William has a rich father. Mine
was poor."

"That fellow will beat us all some day," said a merchant, speaking of John Wanamaker and his
close attention to his work. What a prediction to make of a young man who started business
with a little clothing in a hand cart in the streets of Philadelphia. But this youth had the
indomitable spirit of a conqueror in him, and you could not keep him down. General Grant said
to George W. Childs, "Mr. Wanamaker could command an army." His great energy, method, industry,
economy, and high moral principle, attracted President Harrison, who appointed him Postmaster-General.

Jacques Aristide Boucicault began his business life as an employé in a dry goods house in a
small provincial town in France. After a few years he went to Paris, where he prospered so
rapidly that in 1853 he became a partner and later the sole proprietor of the Bon Marché, then
only a small shop, which became under his direction the most unique establishment in the world.
His idea was to establish a combined philanthropic and commercial house on a large scale. Every
one who worked for him was advanced progressively, according to his length of employment and
the value of the services he rendered. He furnished free tuition, free medical attendance,
and a free library for employés; a provident fund affording a small capital for males and a
marriage portion for females at the expiration of ten or fifteen years of service; a free reading
room for the public; and a free art gallery for artists to exhibit their paintings or sculptures.
After his sudden death in 1877, his only son carried forward his father's projects until he,
too, died in 1879, when his widow, Marguerite Guerin, continued and extended his business and
beneficent plans until her death in 1887. So well did this family lay the foundations of a
building covering 108,000 square feet, with many accessory buildings of smaller size, and of
a business employing 3600 persons with sales amounting to nearly $20,000,000 annually, that
every department is still conducted with all its former success in accordance with the instructions
of the founders. They are here no longer in their bodily presence, but their spirit, their
ideas, still pervade the vast establishment. Everything is still sold at a small profit and
at a price plainly marked, and any article which may have ceased to please the purchaser can,
without the slightest difficulty, be exchanged or its value refunded.

When James Gordon Bennett was forty years old, he collected all his property, three hundred
dollars, and in a cellar with a board upon two barrels for a desk, himself his own type setter,
office boy, publisher, newsboy, clerk, editor, proof-reader and printer's devil, he started
the New York Herald. In all his literary work up to this time he had tried to imitate Franklin's
style; and, as is the fate of all imitators, he utterly failed.

He lost twenty years of his life trying to be somebody else. He first showed the material he
was made of in the "Salutatory," of the Herald, viz., "Our only guide shall be good, sound
and practical common-sense applicable to the business and bosoms of men engaged in everyday
life. We shall support no party, be the organ of no faction or coterie, and care nothing for
any election or any candidate from President down to constable. We shall endeavor to record
facts upon every public and proper subject stripped of verbiage and coloring, with comments
when suitable, just, independent, fearless and good-tempered."

Joseph Hunter was a carpenter, Robert Burns a ploughman, Keats a druggist, Thomas Carlyle a
mason, Hugh Miller a stone mason. Rubens, the artist, was a page, Swedenborg, a mining engineer.
Dante and Descartes were soldiers. Ben Johnson was a brick layer and worked at building Lincoln
Inn in London with trowel in hand and a book in his pocket. Jeremy Taylor was a barber. Andrew
Johnson was a tailor. Cardinal Wolsey was a butcher's son. So were Defoe and Kirke White. Michael
Faraday was the son of a blacksmith. He even excelled his teacher, Sir Humphry Davy, who was
an apprentice to an apothecary.

Virgil was the son of a porter, Homer of a farmer, Pope of a merchant, Horace of a shopkeeper,
Demosthenes of a cutler, Milton of a money scrivener, Shakespeare of a wool stapler, and Oliver
Cromwell of a brewer.

John Wanamaker's first salary was $1.25 per week. A. T. Stewart began his business life as
a school teacher. James Keene drove a milk wagon in a California town. Joseph Pulitzer, proprietor
of the New York World, once acted as stoker on a Mississippi steamboat. When a young man, Cyrus
Field was a clerk in a New England store. George W. Childs was an errand boy for a bookseller
at $4 a month. Andrew Carnegie began work in a Pittsburg telegraph office at $3 a week. C.
P. Huntington sold butter and eggs for what he could get a pound or dozen. Whitelaw Reid was
once a correspondent of a newspaper in Cincinnati at $5 per week. Adam Forepaugh was once a
butcher in Philadelphia.

Sarah Bernhardt was a dressmaker's apprentice. Adelaide Neilson began life as a child's nurse.
Miss Braddon, the novelist, was a utility actress in the provinces. Charlotte Cushman was the
daughter of poor people.

Mr. W. O. Stoddard, in his "Men of Business," tells a characteristic story of the late Leland
Stanford. When eighteen years of age his father purchased a tract of woodland, but had not
the means to clear it as he wished. He told Leland that he could have all he could make from
the timber if he would leave the land clear of trees. A new market had just then been created
for cord wood, and Leland took some money that he had saved, hired other choppers to help him,
and sold over two thousand cords of wood to the Mohawk and Hudson River Railroad at a net profit
of $2600. He used this sum to start him in his law studies, and thus, as Mr. Stoddard says,
chopped his way to the bar.

It is said that the career of Benjamin Franklin is full of inspiration for any young man. When
he left school for good he was only twelve years of age. At first he did little but read. He
soon found, however, that reading, alone, would not make him an educated man, and he proceeded
to act upon this discovery at once. At school he had been unable to understand arithmetic.
Twice he had given it up as a hopeless puzzle, and finally left school almost hopelessly ignorant
upon the subject. But the printer's boy soon found his ignorance of figures extremely inconvenient.
When he was about fourteen he took up for the third time the "Cocker's Arithmetic," which had
baffled him at school, and ciphered all through it with ease and pleasure. He then mastered
a work upon navigation, which included the rudiments of geometry, and thus tasted "the inexhaustible
charm of mathematics." He pursued a similar course, we are told, in acquiring the art of composition,
in which, at length, he excelled most of the men of his time. When he was but a boy of sixteen,
he wrote so well that the pieces which he slyly sent to his brother's paper were thought to
have been written by some of the most learned men in the colony.

The most successful man is he who has triumphed over obstacles, disadvantages and discouragements.

It is Goodyear in his rude laboratory enduring poverty and failure until the pasty rubber is
at length hardened; it is Edison biding his time in baggage car and in printing office until
that mysterious light and power glows and throbs at his command; it is Carey on his cobbler's
bench nourishing the great purpose that at length carried the message of love to benighted
India;--these are the cases and examples of true success.

CHAPTER IV.

OUT OF PLACE.

     The art of putting the right man in the right place is perhaps
     the first in the science of government, but the art of finding
     a satisfactory position for the discontented is the most
     difficult.
     --TALLEYRAND.

     I was born to other things.
     --TENNYSON.

"Out of an art," says Bulwer, "a man may be so trivial you would mistake him for an imbecile--at
best, a grown infant. Put him into his art, and how high he soars above you! How quietly he
enters into a heaven of which he has become a denizen, and unlocking the gates with his golden
key, admits you to follow, an humble reverent visitor."

A man out of place is like a fish out of water. Its fins mean nothing, they are only a hindrance.
The fish can do nothing but flounder out of its element. But as soon as the fins feel the water,
they mean something. Fifty-two per cent of our college graduates studied law, not because,
in many cases, they have the slightest natural aptitude for it, but because it is put down
as the proper road to promotion.

A man never grows in personal power and moral stamina when out of his place. If he grows at
all, it is a narrow, one-sided, stunted growth, not a manly growth. Nature abhors the slightest
perversion of natural aptitude or deviation from the sealed orders which accompany every soul
into this world.

A man out of place is not half a man. He feels unmanned, unsexed. He cannot respect himself,
hence he cannot be respected.

You can enter all kinds of horses for a race, but only those which have natural adaptation
for speed will make records; the others will only make themselves ridiculous by their lumbering,
unnatural exertions to win. How many truck and family-horse lawyers make themselves ridiculous
by trying to speed on the law track, where courts and juries only laugh at them. The effort
to redeem themselves from scorn may enable them by unnatural exertions to become fairly passable,
but the same efforts along the line of their strength or adaptation would make them kings in
their line.

Galileo was sent to the university at Pisa at seventeen, with the strict injunction not to
neglect medical subjects for the alluring study of philosophy or literature. But when he was
eighteen he discovered the great principle of the pendulum by a lamp left swinging in the cathedral.

John Adams' father was a shoemaker; and, trying to teach his son the art, gave him some "uppers"
to cut out by a pattern which had a three-cornered hole in it to hang it up by. The future
statesman followed the pattern, hole and all.

There is a tradition that Tennyson's first poems were published at the instigation of his father's
coachman. His grandfather gave the lad ten shillings for writing an elegy on his grandmother.
As he handed it to him, he said; "There, that's the first money you ever earned by your poetry,
and take my word for it, it will be the last."

Murillo's mother had marked her boy for a priest, but nature had already laid her hand upon
him and marked him for her own. His mother was shocked on returning from church one day to
find that the child had taken down the sacred family picture, "Jesus and the Lamb," and had
painted his own hat on the Saviour's head, and had changed the lamb into a dog.

The poor boy's home was broken up, and he started out on foot and alone to seek his fortune.
All he had was courage and determination to make something of himself. He not only became a
famous artist, but a man of great character.

"In the winter of 1824, there set in a great flood upon the town of Sidmouth, the tide rose
to a terrible height.

How many Dame Partingtons there are of both sexes, and in every walk of life!

The young swan is restless and uneasy until she finds the element she has never before seen.

What a wretched failure was that of Haydon the painter. He thought he failed through the world's
ingratitude or injustice, but his failure was due wholly to his being out of place. His bitter
disappointments at his half successes were really pitiable because to him they were more than
failures. He had not the slightest sense of color, yet went through life under the delusion
that he was an artist.

"If it is God's will to take any of my children by death, I hope it may be Isaac," said the
father of Dr. Isaac Barrow. "Why do you tell that blockhead the same thing twenty times over?"
asked John Wesley's father. "Because," replied his mother, "if I had told him but nineteen
times, all my labor would have been lost, while now he will understand and remember."

A man out of place may manage to get a living, but he has lost the buoyancy, energy and enthusiasm
which are as natural to a man in his place as his breath. He is industrious, but he works mechanically
and without heart. It is to support himself and family, not because he cannot help it. Dinner
time does not come two hours before he realizes it; a man out of place is constantly looking
at his watch and thinking of his salary.

If a man is in his place he is happy, joyous, cheerful, energetic, fertile in resources. The
days are all too short for him. All his faculties give their consent to his work; say "yes"
to his occupation. He is a man; he respects himself and is happy because all his powers are
at play in their natural sphere. There is no compromising of his faculties, no cramping of
legal acumen upon the farm; no suppressing of forensic oratorical powers at the shoemaker's
bench; no stifling of exuberance of physical strength, of visions of golden crops and blooded
cattle amid the loved country life in the dry clergyman's study, composing sermons to put the
congregation to sleep.

To be out of place is demoralizing to all the powers of manhood. We can't cheat nature out
of her aim; if she has set all the currents of your life toward medicine or law, you will only
be a botch at anything else. Will-power and application cannot make a farmer of a born painter
any more than a lumbering draught horse can be changed into a race horse. When the powers are
not used along the line of their strength they become demoralized, weakened, deteriorated.
Self-respect, enthusiasm and courage ooze out; we become half-hearted and success is impossible.

Scott was called the great blockhead while in Edinburgh College. Grant's mother called the
future General and President, "Useless Grant," because he was so unhandy and dull.

Erskine had at length found his place as a lawyer; he carried everything before him at the
bar. Had he remained in the navy he would probably never have been heard from. When elected
to Parliament, his lofty spirit was chilled by the cold sarcasm and contemptuous indifference
of Pitt, whom he was expected by his friends to annihilate. But he was again out of his place;
he was shorn of his magic power and his eloquent tongue faltered from a consciousness of being
out of his place.

Gould failed as a storekeeper, tanner and surveyor and civil engineer, before he got into a
railroad office where he "struck his gait."

When extracts from James Russell Lowell's poem at Harvard were shown his father at Rome, instead
of being pleased the latter said, "James promised me when I left home, that he would give up
poetry and stick to books. I had hoped that he had become less flighty." The world is full
of people at war with their positions.

Man only grows when he is developing along the lines of his own individuality, and not when
he is trying to be somebody else. All attempts to imitate another man, when there is no one
like you in all creation, as the pattern was broken when you were born, is not only to ruin
your own pattern, but to make only an echo of the one imitated. There is no strength off the
lines of our own individuality.

Anywhere else we are dwarfs, weaklings, echoes, and the echo even of a great man is a sorry
contrast to even the smallest human being who is himself.

CHAPTER V.

WHAT SHALL I DO?

     Blessed is he who has found his work,--let him ask no other
     blessing.
     --CARLYLE.

     He who is false to present duty breaks a thread in the loom,
     and will find the flaw when he may have forgotten its cause.
     --BEECHER. In the humbler work, his intelligence may make him a leader; in
the other career he might do as much harm as a boulder rolled from its
place upon a railroad track, a menace to the next express.

"The age has no aversion to preaching as such," said Phillips Brooks, "it may not listen to
your preaching." But though it may not listen to your preaching, it will wear your boots, or
buy your flour, or see stars through your telescope. It has a use for every person, and it
is his business to find out what that use is. A ploughman on his legs is higher than a gentleman
on his knees."

"Girls, you cheapen yourselves by lack of purpose in life," says Rena L. Miner. "You show commendable
zeal in pursuing your studies; your alertness in comprehending and ability in surmounting difficult
problems have become proverbial; nine times out of ten you outrank your brothers thus far;
but when the end is attained, the goal reached, whether it be the graduating certificate from
a graded school, or a college diploma, for nine out of every ten it might as well be added
thereto, 'dead to further activity,' or, 'sleeping until marriage shall resurrect her.'

"Crocheting, placquing, dressing, visiting, music, and flirtations, make up the sum total for
the expense and labor expended for your existence. If forced to earn your support, you are
content to stand behind a counter, or teach school term after term in the same grade, while
the young men who graduated with you walk up the grades, as up a ladder, to professorship and
good salary, from which they swing off into law, physics, or perhaps the legislative firmament,
leaving difficulties and obstacles like nebulæ in their wake.--You girls, satisfied with mediocrity,
have an eye mainly for the 'main chance'--marriage. If you marry wealthy,--which is marrying
well according to the modern popular idea,--you dress more elegantly, cultivate more fashionable
society, leave your thinking for your husband and your minister to do for you, and become in
the economy of life but a sentient nonentity. If you are true to the grand passion, and accept
with it poverty, you bake, brew, scrub, spank the children, and talk with your neighbor over
the back fence for recreation, spending the years literally like the horse in a treadmill,
all for the lack of a purpose,--a purpose sufficiently potent to convert the latent talent
into a gem of living beauty, a creative force which makes all adjuncts secondary, like planets
to their central sun. Choose some one course or calling, and master it in all its details,
sleep by it, swear by it, work for it, and, if marriage crowns you, it can but add new glory
to your labor."

CHAPTER VI.

WILL YOU PAY THE PRICE?

     The gods sell anything and to everybody at a fair price.
     --EMERSON.

     All desire knowledge, but no one is willing to pay the price.
     --JUVENAL.

     There is no royal path which leads to geometry.
     --EUCLID.

     There is no road to success but through a clear, strong
     purpose. A purpose underlies character, culture, position,
     attainment of whatever sort.
     --T. T. MUNGER.

     Remember you have not a sinew whose law of strength is not
     action; you have not a faculty of body, mind, or soul, whose
     law of improvement is not energy.
     --E. B. HALL.

"Oh, if I could thus put a dream on canvas!" exclaimed an enthusiastic young artist, pointing
to a most beautiful painting. "Dream on canvas!" growled the master, "it is the ten thousand
touches with the brush you must learn to put on canvas that make your dream."

"There is but one method of attaining excellence," said Sydney Smith, "and that is hard labor."

"If only Milton's imagination could have conceived his visions," says Waters, "his consummate
industry alone could have carved the immortal lines which enshrine them. If only Newton's mind
could reach out to the secrets of nature, even his genius could only do it by the homeliest
toil. The works of Bacon are not midsummer-night's dreams, but, like coral islands, they have
risen from the depths of truth, and formed their broad surfaces above the ocean by the minutest
accretions of persevering labor. The conceptions of Michael Angelo would have perished like
a night's phantasy, had not his industry given them permanence."

Salvini contributes the following to the Century as to his habits of study before he had established
himself as a past master of tragedy: "I imposed upon myself a new method of study. While I
was busying myself with the part of Saul, I read and reread the Bible, so as to become impregnated
with the appropriate sentiments, manners and local color. When I took up Othello, I pored over
the history of the Venetian Republic and that of the Moorish invasion of Spain. I studied the
passions of the Moors, their art of war, their religious beliefs, nor did I overlook the romance
of Giraldi Cinthio, in order the better to master that sublime character. I did not concern
myself about a superficial study of the words, or of some point of scenic effect, or of greater
or less accentuation of certain phrases with a view to win passing applause; a vaster horizon
opened out before me--an infinite sea on which my bark could navigate in security, without
fear of falling in with reefs."

His method was not new, but he considered it so, and gives his opinion in quotation-marks.
He speaks of characters with which, his name is not always associated by writers on the stage,
but is correct, I think, in the main.

Many years ago a little boy entered Harrow school and was put in a class beyond his years,
wherein all the other boys had the advantage of previous instruction. His master used to reprove
his dullness, but all his efforts could not raise him from the lowest place in the class. The
boy finally procured the elementary books which the other boys had studied. He devoted the
hours of play and many of the hours of sleep to mastering the elementary principles of these
books. This boy was soon at the head of his class and the pride of Harrow. The statue of that
boy, Sir William Jones, stands to-day in St. Paul's Cathedral; for he lived to be the greatest
Oriental scholar of Europe.

"What is the secret of success in business?" asked a friend of Cornelius Vanderbilt. "Secret!
there is no secret about it," replied the commodore; "all you have to do is to attend to your
business and go ahead." If you would adopt Vanderbilt's method, know your business, attend
to it, and keep down expenses until your fortune is safe from business perils.

"Work or starve," is nature's motto,--and it is written on the stars and the sod alike,--starve
mentally, starve morally, starve physically. It is an inexorable law of nature that whatever
is not used, dies. "Nothing for nothing," is her maxim. If we are idle and shiftless by choice,
we shall be nerveless and powerless by necessity.

The mottoes of great men often give us glimpses of the secret of their characters and success.
"Work! work! work!" was the motto of Sir Joshua Reynolds, David Wilkie, and scores of other
men who have left their mark upon the world. Voltaire's motto was "Toujours au travail" (always
at work). Scott's maxim was "Never be doing nothing." Michael Angelo was a wonderful worker.
He even slept in his clothes ready to spring to his work as soon as he awoke. He kept a block
of marble in his bedroom that he might get up in the night and work when he could not sleep.
Even after he was blind he would ask to be wheeled into the Belvidere, to examine the statues
with his hands. Cobden used to say, "I'm working like a horse without a moment to spare." It
was said that Handel, the musician, did the work of a dozen men. Nothing ever daunted him.
He feared neither ridicule nor defeat. Lord Palmerston worked like a slave, even in his old
age. Being asked when he considered a man in his prime, he replied, "Seventy-nine," that being
his own age. Humboldt was one of the world's great workers. In summer he arose at four in the
morning for thirty years. He used to say work was as much of a necessity as eating or sleeping.
Sir Walter Scott was a phenomenal worker. He wrote the "Waverley Novels" at the rate of twelve
volumes a year. He averaged a volume every two months during his whole working life. What an
example is this to the young men of to-day, of the possibilities of an earnest life! Edmund
Burke was one of the most prodigious workers that ever lived.

George Stephenson used to work at meal time, getting out loads of coal while the miners were
at dinner in order that he might earn a few extra shillings to buy a spelling-book and an arithmetic.
His associates thought he was very foolish, and asked him what good it would do to learn to
read and cipher. He told them he was determined to improve his mind; so he studied whenever
he could snatch a minute before the engine's fire, and in every possible situation until he
had a good, practical, common-sense education.

Garibaldi's father decided that Guiseppe should be a minister, because the boy was so sorry
for a cricket which lost its leg. Samuel Morse's father concluded that his son would preach
well because he could not keep his head above water in a dangerous attempt to catch bait in
the Mystic River. President Dwight told young Morse he would never make a painter, and hinted
that he never would amount to much any way if he did not study more. Although under the teaching
of West and Allston in London, he became a tolerable portrait painter, he did not find his
sphere until returning from England on a sailing vessel, he heard Professor Jackson explain
an electrical experiment in Paris, when the thought of the telegraph flashed into his mind
and he found no rest, until he flashed over the wire the first message, "What hath God wrought!"
on the experimental line between Baltimore and Washington: this was May 24, 1844.

William H. Vanderbilt was by far the wealthiest man in the world. Chauncey M. Depew estimated
his fortune at two hundred millions. He left his eight children ten millions each, except Cornelius
and William K., who had sixty-five millions each. Commodore Vanderbilt, his father, amassed
a fortune of eighty millions of dollars in his own lifetime, and that too at a time when it
was more difficult to make money than it is now.

Mr. C. P. Huntington is a good example of a self-made man. His father was a Connecticut farmer.
The farm was left to him, but he traded it off for a lot of clocks which he peddled in mining
districts for gold dust and nuggets. He and Mark Hopkins formed a partnership and opened a
hardware store in California. They united with Leland Stanford in the construction of a railroad,
and they all got rich rapidly. Mr. Huntington is one of the greatest railroad operators of
the country. He always acted upon the principle that he would control the stock of any road
in which he was interested. He is one of the most methodical men of all the millionaires of
this country. He is very plain in his manner, strictly temperate, and very abstemious in his
living. He said he never knew what it was to be tired.

Russell Sage used to keep a grocery store in Troy, N. Y. He finally associated himself with
Jay Gould, who used to be a constant borrower of money of him. Mr. Sage probably keeps more
ready money on hand than any other millionaire. He can nearly always control ten millions or
more at call. He has never speculated in stocks to any extent. Mr. Sage's word is as good as
any bond. He has no taste for ordinary diversions, except driving.

Philip D. Armour, who has the appearance of a prosperous farmer, was born on a farm near Watertown,
N. J. He became fired with a desire to see the "Boundless West." His mind seemed to run to
hogs, and with a financial instinct he made up his mind that there was a fortune in transporting
the hogs from where they were so plenty to where there were so few of them and so many to eat
them. He could now purchase every hog in the world and then have money left to buy a railroad
or two.

Mrs. Hetty Green is probably the richest woman in the world. Her fortune has grown from the
little industry of her father in New Bedford, Mass. She has raised the nine millions left her
by her father and nine millions left her by her aunt to thirty millions. She is a woman of
great ability and courage. She once took with her five millions of dollars of securities in
a satchel on a street car to deposit with her banker on Wall street.

The probabilities are that billionaires will be as plentiful in the twentieth century as millionaires
are to-day, through hard work, self-denial, rigid economy, method, accuracy, and strict temperance,
for not one of the self-made millionaires are intemperate. John D. Rockefeller never tastes
intoxicating liquor. He seems as unvarying in his method and system as the laws of the universe.
Jay Gould did not use wine or intoxicating liquor of any kind. Mr. Huntington does not even
drink coffee, while William Waldorf Astor merely takes a sip of wine for courtesy's sake. Not
one of the leading millionaires uses tobacco, and not one of them is profane. Very rich men
are almost always honest in their dealings, so far as their word is concerned. William Waldorf
Astor, until recently, has been considered the richest man in the world, but John D. Rockefeller
surpasses him now, it is said. The whole wealth of Croesus was little more than the income
of this modern Croesus for one year. Mr. Rockefeller controls about eighty or ninety millions
of capital stock in the Standard Oil Trust. The Standard Oil Company is one of the best managed
corporations in the world.

Two centuries and a quarter ago, a little, tempest-tossed, weather-beaten bark, barely escaped
from the jaws of the wild Atlantic, landed upon the bleakest shore of New England. From her
deck disembarked a hundred and one careworn exiles.

To the casual observer no event could seem more insignificant. The contemptuous eye of the
world scarcely deigned to notice it. Yet the famous vessel that bore Cæsar and his fortunes,
carried but an ignoble freight compared with that of the Mayflower. Though landed by a treacherous
pilot upon a barren and inhospitable coast, they sought neither richer fields nor a more congenial
climate, but liberty and opportunity.

A lady once asked Turner the secret of his great success.

"I have no secret, madam, but hard work."

"This is a secret that many never learn, and they don't succeed because they fail to learn
it. Labor is the genius that changes the world from ugliness to beauty, and the great curse
to a great blessing."

See Balzac, in his lonely garret, toiling, toiling, waiting, waiting, amid poverty and hunger,
but neither hunger, debt, poverty nor discouragement could induce him to swerve a hair's breadth
from his purpose. He could wait, even while a world scoffed.

"Mankind is more indebted to industry than to ingenuity," says Addison; "the gods set up their
favors at a price and industry is the purchaser."

Rome was a mighty nation while industry led her people, but when her great conquests of wealth
and slaves placed her citizens above work, that moment her glory began to fade, and vice and
corruption, induced by idleness, doomed the proud city to an ignominious history. Even Cicero,
Rome's great orator, said, "All artisans are engaged in a disgraceful occupation;" and Aristotle
said, "The best regulated states will not permit a mechanic to be a citizen, for it is impossible
for one who lives the life of a mechanic, or hired servant, to practice a life of virtue. Some
were born to be slaves." But, fortunately there came a mightier than Rome, Cicero or Aristotle,
whose magnificent life and example forever lifted the false ban from labor and redeemed it
from disgrace. He gave dignity to the most menial service, and significance to labor.

Christ did not say, "Come unto me all ye pleasure hunters, ye indolent and ye lazy;" but "Come
all ye that labor and are heavy laden."

Columbus was a persistent and practical, as well as an intellectual hero. He went from one
state to another, urging kings and emperors to undertake the first visiting of a world which
his instructed spirit already discerned in the far-off seas. He first tried his own countrymen
at Genoa, but found none ready to help him. He then went to Portugal, and submitted his project
to John II., who laid it before his council. It was scouted as extravagant and chimerical.
Nevertheless, the king endeavored to steal Columbus's idea. A fleet was sent forth in the direction
indicated by the navigator, but, being frustrated by storms and winds, it returned to Lisbon
after four days' voyaging.

Columbus returned to Genoa, and again renewed his propositions to the Republic, but without
success. Nothing discouraged him. The finding of the New World was the irrevocable object of
his life. He went to Spain, and landed at the town of Palos, in Andalusia. He went by chance
to a convent of Franciscans, knocked at the door and asked for a little bread and water. The
prior gratefully received the stranger, entertained him, and learned from him the story of
his life. He encouraged him in his hopes, and furnished him with an admission to the Court
of Spain, then at Cordova. King Ferdinand received him graciously, but before coming to a decision
he desired to lay the project before a council of his wisest men at Salamanca. Columbus had
to reply, not only to the scientific arguments laid before him, but to citations from the Bible.
The Spanish clergy declared that the theory of the antipodes was hostile to the faith. The
earth, they said, was an immense flat disk; and if there was a new earth beyond the ocean,
then all men could not be descended from Adam. Columbus was considered a fool.

Still bent on his idea, he wrote to the King of England, then to the King of France, without
effect. At last, in 1492, Columbus was introduced by Louis de Saint Angel to Queen Isabella
of Spain. The friends who accompanied him pleaded his cause with so much force and conviction
that he at length persuaded the queen to aid him.

Lord Ellenborough was a great worker. He had a very hard time in getting a start at the bar,
but was determined never to relax his industry until success came to him. When he was worked
down to absolute exhaustion, he had this card which he kept constantly before his eyes, lest
he might be tempted to relax his efforts: "Read or Starve."

Show me a man who has made fifty thousand dollars, and I will show you in that man an equivalent
of energy, attention to detail, trustworthiness, punctuality, professional knowledge, good
address, common sense, and other marketable qualities. The farmer respects his savings bank
book not unnaturally, for it declares with all the solemnity of a sealed and stamped document
that for a certain length of time he rose at six o'clock each morning to oversee his labors,
that he patiently waited upon seasonable weather, that he understood buying and selling. To
the medical man, his fee serves as a medal to indicate that he was brave enough to face small
pox and other infectious diseases, and his self-respect is fostered thereby.

The barrister's brief is marked with the price of his legal knowledge, of his eloquence, or
of his brave endurance during a period of hope-deferred brieflessness.

Virgil seems to have accomplished about four lines a week; but then they have lasted eighteen
hundred years and will last eighteen hundred more.

Seven years Virgil is said to have expended in the composition of the Georgics, and they could
all be printed in about seven columns of an ordinary newspaper. Tradition reports that he was
in the habit of composing a few lines in the morning and spending the rest of the day in polishing
them. Campbell used to say that if a poet made one good line a week, he did very well indeed;
but Moore thought that if a poet did his duty, he could get a line done every day.

What an army of young men enters the success-contest every year as raw recruits! Many of them
are country youths flocking to the cities to buy success. Their young ambitions have been excited
by some book, or fired by the story of some signal success, and they dream of becoming Astors
or Girards, Stewarts or Wanamakers, Vanderbilts or Goulds, Lincolns or Garfields, until their
innate energy impels them to try their own fortune in the magic metropolis. But what are you
willing to pay for "success," as you call it, young man? Do you realize what that word means
in a great city in the nineteenth century, where men grow gray at thirty and die of old age
at forty,--where the race of life has become so intense that the runners are treading on the
heels of those before them; and "woe to him who stops to tie his shoestring?" Do you know that
only two or three out of every hundred will ever win permanent success, and only because they
have kept everlastingly at it; and that the rest will sooner or later fail and many die in
poverty because they have given up the struggle.

There are multitudes of men who never rely wholly upon themselves and achieve independence.
They are like summer vines, which never grow even ligneous, but stretch out a thousand little
hands to grasp the stronger shrubs; and if they cannot reach them, they lie dishevelled in
the grass, hoof-trodden, and beaten of every storm. It will be found that the first real movement
upward will not take place until, in a spirit of resolute self-denial, indolence, so natural
to almost every one, is mastered. Necessity is, usually, the spur that sets the sluggish energies
in motion. Poverty, therefore, is often of inestimable value as an incentive to the best endeavors
of which we are capable.

CHAPTER VII.

FOUNDATION STONES.

     In all matters, before beginning, a diligent preparation should
     be made.
     --CICERO.

     How great soever a genius may be, ... certain it is that he
     will never shine in his full lustre, nor shed the full
     influence he is capable of, unless to his own experience he
     adds that of other men and other ages.
     --BOLINGBROKE.

     It is for want of the little that human means must add to the
     wonderful capacity for improvement, born in man, that by far
     the greatest part of the intellect, innate in our race,
     perishes undeveloped and unknown.
     --EDWARD EVERETT.

     If any man fancies that there is some easier way of gaining a
     dollar than by squarely earning it, he has lost his clue to his
     way through this mortal labyrinth and must henceforth wander as
     chance may dictate.
     --HORACE GREELEY.

     Learn to labor and to wait.
     --LONGFELLOW.

"What avails all this sturdiness?" asked an oak tree which had grown solitary for two hundred
years, bitterly handled by frosts and wrestled by winds. "Why am I to stand here useless? My
roots are anchored in rifts of rocks; no herds can lie down under my shadow; I am far above
singing birds, that seldom come to rest among my leaves; I am set as a mark for storms, that
bend and tear me; my fruit is serviceable for no appetite; it had been better for me to have
been a mushroom, gathered in the morning for some poor man's table, than to be a hundred-year
oak, good for nothing."

While it yet spoke, the axe was hewing at its base. It died in sadness, saying as it fell,
"Weary ages for nothing have I lived."

The axe completed its work. By and by the trunk and root form the knees of a stately ship,
bearing the country's flag around the world. Other parts form keel and ribs of merchantmen,
and having defied the mountain storms, they now equally resist the thunder of the waves and
the murky threat of scowling hurricanes. Other parts are laid into floors, or wrought into
wainscoting, or carved for frames of noble pictures, or fashioned into chairs that embosom
the weakness of old age. Thus the tree, in dying, came not to its end, but to its beginning
of life. It voyaged the world. It grew to parts of temples and dwellings. It held upon its
surface the soft tread of children and the tottering steps of patriarchs. It rocked in the
cradle. It swayed the limbs of age by the chimney corner, and heard, secure within, the roar
of those old, unwearied tempests that once surged about its mountain life. All its early struggles
and hardships had enabled it to grow tough and hard and beautiful of grain, alike useful and
ornamental.

"Sir, you have been to college, I presume?" asked an illiterate but boastful exhorter of a
clergyman.

Why not allow the schoolboy to erase from his list of studies all subjects that appear to him
useless? Would he not erase every thing which taxed his pleasure and freedom? Would he not
obey the call of his blood, rather than the advice of his teacher? Ignorant men who have made
money tell him that the study of geography is useless; his tea will come over the sea to him
whether he knows where China is or not; what difference does it make whether verbs agree with
their subjects or not? Why waste time learning geometry or algebra? Who keeps accounts by these?
Learning spoils a man for business, they tell him; they begrudge the time and money spent in
education. They want cheap and rapid transit through college for their children. Veneer will
answer every practical purpose for them, instead of solid mahogany, or even paint and pine will do.

It is said that the editors of the Dictionary of American Biography who diligently searched
the records of living and dead Americans, found 15,142 names worthy of a place in their six
volumes of annals of successful men, and 5326, or more than one-third of them, were college-educated
men. One in forty of the college educated attained a success worthy of mention, and but one
in 10,000 of those not so educated; so that the college-bred man had two hundred and fifty
times the chances for success that others had. Medical records, it is said, show that but five
per cent. of the practicing physicians of the United States are college graduates; and yet
forty-six per cent. of the physicians who became locally famous enough to be mentioned by those
editors came from that small five per cent. of college educated persons. Less than four per
cent. of the lawyers were college-bred, yet they furnished more than one-half of all who became
successful. Not one per cent. of the business men of the country were college educated, yet
that small fraction of college-bred men had seventeen times the chances of success that their
fellow men of business had. In brief, the college-educated lawyer has fifty per cent. more
chances for success than those not so favored; the college-educated physician, forty-six per
cent. more; the author, thirty-seven per cent. more; the statesman, thirty-three per cent.;
the clergyman, fifty-eight per cent.; the educator, sixty-one per cent.; the scientist, sixty-three
per cent. You should therefore get the best and most complete education that it is possible
for you to obtain.

Knowledge, then, is one of the secret keys which unlock the hidden mysteries of a successful life.

"You are a fool to stick so close to your work all the time," said one of Vanderbilt's young
friends; "we are having our fun while we are young, for when will we if not now?" But Cornelius
was either earning more money by working overtime, or saving what he had earned, or at home
asleep, recruiting for the next day's labor and preparing for a large harvest later. Like all
successful men, he made finance a study. When he entered the railroad business, it was estimated
that his fortune was thirty-five or forty million dollars.

"On to Berlin," was the shout of the French army in July, 1870; but, to the astonishment of
the world, the French forces were cut in two and rolled as by a tidal wave into Metz and around
Sedan. Soon two French armies and the Emperor surrendered, and German troopers paraded the
streets of captured Paris.

But as men thought it out, as Professor Wells tells us, they came to see that it was not France
that was beaten, but only Louis Napoleon and a lot of nobles, influential only because they
bore titles or were favorites. Louis Napoleon, the feeble bearer of a great name, was emperor
because of that name and criminal daring. By a series of happy accidents he had gained credit
in the Crimean War, and at Magenta and Solferino. But the unmasking time came in the Franco-Prussian
War, as it always comes when sham, artificial toy-men meet genuine self-made men. And such
were the German leaders,--William, strong, upright, warlike, "every inch a king;" Von Roon,
Minister of War, a master of administrative detail; Bismarck, the master mind of European politics;
and, above all, Von Moltke, chief of staff, who hurled armies by telegraph, as he sat at his
cabinet, as easily as a master moves chessmen against a stupid opponent.

"A rare man this Von Moltke!" exclaims Professor Wells; "one who made himself ready for his
opportunities beyond all men known to the modern world. Of an impoverished family, he rose
very slowly and by his own merit. He yielded to no temptation, vice, or dishonesty, of course,
nor to the greater and ever present temptation to idleness, for he constantly worked to the
limit of human endurance. He was ready for every emergency, not by accident, but because he
made himself ready by painstaking labor, before the opportunity came. His favorite motto was,
'Help yourself and others will help you.' Hundreds of his age in the Prussian army were of
nobler birth, thousands of greater fortune, but he made himself superior to them all by extraordinary
fidelity and diligence.

"The greatest master of strategy the world has ever seen was sixty-six years at school to himself
before he was ready for his task. Though born with the century, and an army officer at nineteen,
he was an old man when, in 1866, as Prussian chief of staff, he crushed Austria at Sadowa and
drove her out of Germany. Four years later the silent, modest soldier of seventy, ready for
the still greater opportunity, smote France, and changed the map of Europe. Glory and the field-marshal's
baton, after fifty-one years of hard work! No wonder Louis Napoleon was beaten by such men
as he. All Louis Napoleons have been, and always will be. Opportunity always finds out frauds.
It does not make men, but shows the world what they have made of themselves."

Sir Henry Havelock joined the army of India in his twenty-eighth year, and waited till he was
sixty-two for the opportunity to show himself fitted to command and skillful to plan. During
those four and thirty years of waiting, he was busy preparing himself for that march to Lucknow
which was to make him famous as a soldier.

Farragut,

     "The viking of our western clime
     Who made his mast a throne,"

began his naval career as a mere boy, and was sixty-four years old before he had an opportunity
to distinguish himself; but when the great test of his life came, the reserve of half a century's
preparation made him master of the situation.

"Fill up the cask! fill up the cask!" said old Dr. Bellamy when asked by a young clergyman
for advice about the composition of sermons. "Fill up the cask! and then if you tap it anywhere
you will get a good stream. But if you put in but little, it will dribble, dribble, dribble,
and you must tap, tap, tap, and then you get but a small stream, after all."

"The merchant is in a dangerous position," says Dr. W. W. Patton, "whose means are in goods
trusted out all over the country on long credits, and who in an emergency has no money in the
bank upon which to draw. A heavy deposit, subject to a sight-draft, is the only position of
strength. And he only is intellectually strong, who has made heavy deposits in the bank of
memory, and can draw upon his faculties at any time, according to the necessities of the case."

They say that more life, if not more labor, was spent on the piles beneath the St. Petersburg
church of St. Isaac's, to get a foundation, than on all the magnificent marbles and malachite
which have since been lodged in it. The rivers of India run under ground, unseen, unheard,
by the millions who tramp above, but are they therefore lost? Ask the golden harvest waving
above them if it feels the water flowing beneath? The superstructure of a lifetime cannot stand
upon the foundation of a day.

C. H. Parkhurst says that in manhood, as much as in house-building, the foundation keeps asserting
itself all the way from the first floor to the roof. The stones laid in the underpinning may
be coarse and inelegant, but, even so, each such stone perpetuates itself in silent echo clear
up through to the finial. The body is in that respect like an old Stradivarius violin, the
ineffable sweetness of whose music is outcome and quotation from the coarse fibre of the case
upon which its strings are strung. It is a very pleasant delusion that what we call the higher
qualities and energies of a person maintain that self-centered kind of existence that enables
them to discard and contemn all dependence upon what is lower and less refined than themselves,
but it is a delusion that always wilts in an atmosphere of fact. Climb high as we like our
ladder will still require to rest on the ground; and it is probable that the keenest intellectual
intuition, and the most delicate throb of passion would, if analysis could be carried so far,
be discovered to have its connections with the rather material affair that we know as the body.

Lincoln took the postmastership for the sake of reading all the papers that came to town. He
read everything he could lay his hands on; the Bible, Shakespeare, Pilgrim's Progress, Life
of Washington and Life of Franklin, Life of Henry Clay, Æsop's Fables; he read them over and
over again until he could almost repeat them by heart; but he never read a novel in his life.
His education came from the newspapers and from his contact with men and things. After he read
a book he would write out an analysis of it. What a grand sight to see this long, lank, backwoods
student, lying before the fire in a log cabin without floor or windows, after everybody else
was abed, devouring books he had borrowed but could not afford to buy!

It is better to deserve success than to merely have it; few deserve it who do not attain it.
There is no failure in this country for those whose personal habits are good, and who follow
some honest calling industriously, unselfishly, and purely. If one desires to succeed, he must
pay the price, work.

No matter how weak a power may be, rational use will make it stronger. No matter how awkward
your movements may be, how obtuse your senses, or how crude your thought, or how unregulated
your desires, you may by patient discipline acquire, slowly indeed but with infallible certainty,
grace and freedom of action, clearness and acuteness of perception, strength and precision
of thought, and moderation of desire.

It would go very far to destroy the absurd and pernicious association of genius and idleness,
to show that the greatest poets, orators, statesmen, and historians--men of the most imposing
and brilliant talents--have actually labored as hard as the makers of dictionaries and arrangers
of indexes; and the most obvious reason why they have been superior to other men, is, that
they have taken more pains.

Even the great genius, Lord Bacon, left large quantities of material entitled "Sudden thoughts
set down for use." John Foster was an indefatigable worker. "He used to hack, split, twist,
and pull up by the roots, or practice any other severity on whatever did not please him." Chalmers
was asked in London what Foster was doing. "Hard at it" he said, "at the rate of a line a week."

"Most certainly not.

That is done soon enough which is done well.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CONQUEST OF OBSTACLES.

     Nature, when she adds difficulties, adds brains.
     --EMERSON.

     Exigencies create the necessary ability to meet and conquer
     them.
     --WENDELL PHILLIPS.

     Many men owe the grandeur of their lives to their tremendous
     difficulties.
     --SPURGEON.

     The rugged metal of the mine
     Must burn before its surface shine.
     --BYRON.

     When a man looks through a tear in his own eye, that is a lens
     which opens reaches in the unknown, and reveals orbs no
     telescope could do.
     --BEECHER.

"What a fine profession ours would be if there were no gibbets!" said one of two highwaymen
who chanced to pass a gallows.

"Troubles are often the tools by which God fashions us for better things," said Beecher. "Far
up the mountain side lies a block of granite, and says to itself, 'How happy am I in my serenity--above
the winds, above the trees, almost above the flight of birds! Here I rest, age after age, and
nothing disturbs me.'

"Yet what is it? It is only a bare block of granite, jutting out of the cliff, and its happiness
is the happiness of death.

"By and by comes the miner, and with strong and repeated strokes he drills a hole in its top,
and the rock says, 'What does this mean?' Then the black powder is poured in, and with a blast
that makes the mountain echo, the block is blown asunder, and goes crashing down into the valley.
'Ah!' it exclaims as it falls, 'why this rending?' Then come saws to cut and fashion it; and
humbled now, and willing to be nothing, it is borne away from the mountain and conveyed to
the city. Now it is chiseled and polished, till, at length, finished in beauty, by block and
tackle it is raised, with mighty hoistings, high in air, to be the top-stone on some monument
of the country's glory."

There is a beautiful tale of Scandinavian mythology. A hero, under the promise of becoming
a demi-god, is bidden in the celestial halls to perform three test-acts of prowess. He is to
drain the drinking-horn of Thor. Then he must run a race with a courser so fleet that he fairly
spurns the ground under his flying footsteps. Then he must wrestle with a toothless old woman,
whose sinewy hands, as wiry as eagle claws in the grapple, make his very flesh to quiver. He
is victorious in them all. But as the crown of success is placed upon his temples, he discovers
for the first time that he has had for his antagonist the three greatest forces of nature.
He raced with thought, he wrestled with old age, he drank the sea. Nature, like the God of
nature, wrestles with us as a friend, not an enemy, wanting us to gain the victory, and wrestles
with us that we may understand and enjoy her best blessings. Every greatest and highest earthly
good has come to us unfolded and enriched by this terrible wrestling with nature.

A curious society still exists in Paris composed of dramatic authors who meet once a month
and dine together. Their number has no fixed limit, only every member to be eligible must have
been hissed. An eminent dramatist is selected for chairman and holds the post for three months.
His election generally follows close upon a splendid failure. Some of the world-famous ones
have enjoyed this honor. Dumas, Jr., Zola and Offenbach have all filled the chair and presided
at the monthly dinner. These dinners are given on the last Friday of the month, and are said
to be extraordinarily hilarious.

"What is defeat?" asked Wendell Phillips. "Nothing but education." And a life's disaster may
become the landmark from which there has begun a new era, a broader life for man.

"Obstacles," says Mitchell, "are great incentives. I lived for whole years upon Virgil and
found myself well off." Poverty, Horace tells us, drove him to poetry.

Nothing more unmans a man than to take away from him the spur of necessity, which urges him
onward and upward to the goal of his ambition. Man is naturally lazy, and wealth induces indolence.
The great object of life is development, the unfolding and drawing out of our powers, and whatever
tempts us to a life of indolence or inaction, or to seek pleasure merely, whatever furnishes
us a crutch when we can develop our muscles better by walking, all helps, guides, props, whatever
tempts to a life of inaction, in whatever guise it may come, is a curse. I always pity the
boy or girl with inherited wealth, for the temptation to hide their talents in a napkin, undeveloped,
is very, very great. It is not natural for them to walk when they can ride, to go alone when
they can be helped.

Quentin Matsys was a blacksmith at Antwerp. When in his twentieth year he wished to marry the
daughter of a painter. The father refused his consent. "Wert thou a painter," said he, "she
should be thine; but a blacksmith--never!" "I will be a painter," said the young man. He applied
to his new art with so much perseverance that in a short time he produced pictures which gave
a promise of the highest excellence. He gained for his reward the fair hand for which he sighed,
and rose ere long to a high rank in his profession.

The athlete does not carry the gymnasium away with him, but he carries the skill and muscle
which give him his reputation.

The lessons you learn at school will give you strength and skill in after life, and power,
just in proportion to the accuracy, the clearness of perception with which you learn your lessons.
The school was your gymnasium. You do not carry away the Greek and Latin text-books, the geometry
and algebra into your occupations any more than the athlete carries the apparatus of the gymnasium,
but you carry away the skill and the power if you have been painstaking, accurate and faithful.

"It is in me, and it shall come out!" And it did. For Richard Brinsley Sheridan became the
most brilliant, eloquent and amazing statesman of his day. Yet if his first efforts had been
but moderately successful, he might have been content with mere mediocrity. It was his defeats
that nerved him to strive for eminence and win it. But it took hard, persistent work in his
case to secure it, just as it did in that of so many others.

Where the sky is gray and the climate unkindly, where the soil yields nothing save to the diligent
hand, and life itself cannot be supported without incessant toil, man has reached his highest
range of physical and intellectual development.

The most beautiful and the strongest animals, as a rule, have come from the same narrow belt
of latitude which has produced the heroes of the world.

The law of adaptation by which conditions affect an organism is simple and well known. It is
that which callouses the palm of the oarsman, strengthens the waist of the wrestler, fits the
back to its burden. It inexorably compels the organism to adapt itself to its conditions, to
like them, and so to survive them.

CHAPTER IX.

DEAD IN EARNEST.

     It is the live coal that kindles others, not the dead. What
     made Demosthenes the greatest of all orators was that he
     appeared the most entirely possessed by the feelings he wished
     to inspire. The effect produced by Charles Fox, who by the
     exaggerations of party spirit, was often compared to
     Demosthenes, seems to have arisen wholly from this earnestness,
     which made up for the want of almost every grace, both of
     manner and style.
     --ANON.

     Twelve poor men taken out of boats and creeks, without any help
     of learning, should conquer the world to the cross.
     --STEPHEN CARNOCK.

     For his heart was in his work, and the heart
     Giveth grace unto every art.
     --LONGFELLOW.

     He did it with all his heart and prospered.
     --II. CHRONICLES.

"The emotions," says Whipple, "may all be included in the single word 'enthusiasm,' or that
impulsive force which liberates the mental power from the ice of timidity as spring loosens
the streams from the grasp of winter, and sends them forth in a rejoicing rush. The mind of
youth, when impelled by this original strength and enthusiasm of Nature, is keen, eager, inquisitive,
intense, audacious, rapidly assimilating facts into faculties and knowledge into power, and
above all teeming with that joyous fullness of creative life which radiates thoughts as inspirations,
and magnetizes as well as informs."

"Columbus, my hero," exclaims Carlyle, "royalist sea-king of all! It is no friendly environment
this of thine, in the waste, deep waters; around thee mutinous discouraged souls, behind thee
disgrace and ruin, before thee the unpenetrated veil of night. Brother, these wild water-mountains,
bounding from their deep bases (ten miles deep, I am told), are not there on thy behalf! Meseems
they have other work than floating thee forward:--and the huge winds, that sweep from Ursa
Major to the tropics and equator, dancing their giant-waltz through the kingdoms of chaos and
immensity, they care little about filling rightly or filling wrongly the small shoulder-of-mutton
sails in this cockle skiff of thine! Thou art not among articulate-speaking friends, my brother;
thou art among immeasurable dumb monsters, tumbling, howling wide as the world here. Secret,
far-off, invisible to all hearts but thine, there lies a help in them: see how thou wilt get
at that. Patiently thou wilt wait till the mad southwester spend itself, saving thyself by
dexterous science of defence the while: valiantly, with swift decision, wilt thou strike in,
when the favoring east wind, the possible, springs up. Mutiny of men thou wilt sternly repress;
weakness, despondency, thou wilt cheerily encourage: thou wilt swallow down complaint, unreason,
weariness, weakness of others and thyself;--how much wilt thou swallow down? There shall be
a depth of silence in thee, deeper than this sea, which is but ten miles deep: a silence unsoundable;
known to God only. Thou shalt be a great man. Yes, my world-soldier, thou of the world marine-service,--thou
wilt have to be greater than this tumultuous unmeasured world here round thee is: thou, in
thy strong soul, as with wrestler's arms, shall embrace it, harness it down; and make it bear
thee on,--to new Americas, or whither God wills!"

With what concentration of purpose did Washington put the whole weight of his character into
the scales of our cause in the Revolution! With what earnest singleness of aim did Lincoln
in the cabinet, Grant in the field, throw his whole soul into the contest of our civil war?

The power of Phillips Brooks, at which men wondered, lay in his tremendous earnestness.

"No matter what your work is," says Emerson, "let it be yours; no matter if you are a tinker
or preacher, blacksmith or president, let what you are doing be organic, let it be in your
bones, and you open the door by which the affluence of heaven and earth shall stream into you."

"I have been so busy for twenty years trying to save the souls of other people," said Livingstone,
"that I had forgotten that I have one of my own until a savage auditor asked me if I felt the
influence of the religion I was advocating."

Said Dr. Arnold, the celebrated instructor: "I feel more and more the need of intercourse with
men who take life in earnest. It is painful to me to be always on the surface of things. Not
that I wish for much of what is called religious conversation. That is often apt to be on the
surface. But I want a sign which one catches by a sort of masonry, that a man knows what he
is about in life. When I find this it opens my heart with as fresh a sympathy as when I was
twenty years younger."

Archimedes, the greatest geometer of antiquity, was consulted by the king in regard to a gold
crown suspected of being fraudulently alloyed with silver. While considering the best method
of detecting any fraud, he plunged into a full bathing tub; and, with the thought that the
water that overflowed must be equal in weight to his body, he discovered the method of obtaining
the bulk of the crown compared with an equally heavy mass of pure gold. Excited by the discovery,
he ran through the streets undressed, crying, "I have found it."

Equally celebrated is his remark, "Give me where to stand and I will move the world."

His only remark to the Roman soldier who entered his room while engaged in geometrical study,
was, "Don't step on my circle."

Refusing to follow the soldier to Marcellus, who had captured the city, he was killed on the
spot. He is said to have remarked, "My head, but not my circle."

Horace Vernet's enthusiasm and devotion to the one idea of his life knew no bounds. He had
himself lashed to the mast in a terrible gale on the Mediterranean when all others on board
were seized with terror, and with great delight sketched the towering waves which threatened
every minute to swallow the vessel. Several writers tell the story that a great artist, Giotto,
about to paint the crucifixion, induced a poor man to let him bind him upon a cross in order
that he might get a better idea of the terrible scene that he was about to put upon the canvas.
He promised faithfully that he would release his model in an hour, but to the latter's horror
the painter seized a dagger and plunged it into his heart; and, while the blood was streaming
from the ghastly wound, painted his death agony.

Beecher was a very dull boy and was the last member of the family of whom anything was expected.
He had a weak memory, and disliked study. He shunned society and wanted to go to sea. Even
when he went to college many of his classmates stood ahead of him, who have fallen into oblivion.
But when he was converted his whole life changed: he was full of enthusiasm, hopefulness and
zeal. Nothing was too menial for him to undertake to carry his purpose. He chopped wood, built
the fire in his little church in Lawrenceburg, Ind., of only eighteen members, cleaned the
lamps, swept the floor and washed the windows. He built the fire, baked, washed, when his wife
was ill. The pent-up enthusiasm of his ambitious life burst the barriers of his inhospitable
surroundings until he blossomed out into America's greatest pulpit orator.

When Handel was a little boy he bought a clavichord, hid it in the attic, and went there at
night to play upon it, muffling the strings with small pieces of fine woolen cloth so that
the sounds should not wake the family. Michael Angelo neglected school to copy drawings which
he dared not carry home. Murillo filled the margin of his school-book with drawings. Dryden
read Polybius before he was ten years old. Le Brum, when a boy, drew with a piece of charcoal
on the walls of the house. Pope wrote excellent verses at fourteen. Blaise Pascal, the French
mathematician, composed at sixteen a tract on the conic sections.

Professor Agassiz was so enthusiastic in his work and so loved the fishes, the fowl and the
cattle that it is said these creatures would die for him to give him their skeletons. His father
wanted him to fit for commercial life, but the fish haunted him day and night.

Confucius said that "he was so eager in the pursuit of knowledge that he forgot his food;"
and that, "in the joy of its attainment, he forgot his sorrows;" and that "he did not even
perceive that old age was coming on."

"That boy tries to make himself useful," said an employer of the errand boy, George W. Childs.
It is this trying to be useful and helpful that promotes us in life.

Once, when Mr. Harvey, an accomplished mathematician, was in a bookseller's shop, he saw a
poor lad of mean appearance enter and write something on a slip of paper and give it to the
proprietor. On inquiry he found this was a poor deaf boy, Kitto, who afterward became one of
the most noted Biblical scholars in the world, and who wrote his first book in the poor-house.
He had come to borrow a book. When a lad he had fallen backward from a ladder thirty-five feet
upon the pavement with a load of slates that he was carrying to the roof. The poor lad was
so thirsty for books that he would borrow from booksellers who would loan them to him out of
pity, read them and return them.

The Youth's Companion says that Mr. Edison in his new biography--his "Life and Inventions"--describes
the accidental method by which he discovered the principle of the phonograph. There is a kind
of accident that happens only to a certain kind of man.

"I was singing to the mouthpiece of a telephone," Mr. Edison says, "when the vibrations of
the voice sent the fine steel point into my finger. That set me to thinking. If I could record
the actions of the point, and send the point over the same surface afterward, I saw no reason
why the thing would not talk.

"I tried the experiment first on a slip of telegraph paper and found that the point made an
alphabet. I shouted the words 'Halloo! Halloo!' into the mouthpiece, ran the paper back over
the steel point, and heard a faint 'Halloo! Halloo!' in return. They laughed at me. That's
the whole story. The phonograph is the result of the pricking of a finger."

It is one thing to hit upon an idea, however, and another thing to carry it out to perfection.
The machine would talk, but, like many young children, it had difficulty with certain sounds--in
the present case with aspirants and sibilants. Mr. Edison's biographers say, but the statement
is somewhat exaggerated:

"He has frequently spent from fifteen to twenty hours daily, for six or seven months on a stretch,
dinning the word 'Spezia,' for example, into the stubborn surface of the wax. 'Spezia,' roared
the inventor, 'Pezia' lisped the phonograph in tones of ladylike reserve, and so on through
thousands of graded repetitions till the desired results were obtained.

"The primary education of the phonograph was comical in the extreme. To hear those grave and
reverend signors, rich in scientific honors, patiently reiterating:

     Mary had a little lamb,
     A little lamb, lamb, LAMB,

and elaborating that point with anxious gravity, was to receive a practical demonstration of
the eternal unfitness of things."

Milton, when blind, old and poor, showed a royal cheerfulness and never "bated one jot of heart
or hope, but steered right onward."

Dickens' characters seemed to possess him, and haunt him day and night until properly portrayed
in his stories.

At a time when it was considered dangerous to society in Europe for the common people to read
books and listen to lectures on any but religious subjects, Charles Knight determined to enlighten
the masses by cheap literature. He believed that a paper could be instructive and not be dull,
cheap without being wicked. He started the Penny Magazine, which acquired a circulation of
200,000 the first year. Knight projected the Penny Cyclopedia, the Library of Entertaining
Knowledge, Half-Hours With the Best Authors, and other useful books at a low price. His whole
adult life was spent in the work of elevating the common people by cheap, yet wholesome, publications.
He died in poverty, but grateful people have erected a noble monument over his ashes.

Demosthenes roused the torpid spirits of his countrymen to a vigorous effort to preserve their
independence against the designs of an ambitious and artful prince, and Philip had just reason
to say he was more afraid of that man than of all the fleets and armies of the Athenians.

Horace Greeley was a hampered genius who never had a chance to show himself until he started
the Tribune, into which he poured his whole individuality, life and soul.

Emerson lost the first years of his life trying to be somebody else. He finally came to himself
and said: "If a single man plant himself indomitably on his instincts, and there abide, the
whole world will come round to him in the end." "Though we travel the world over to find the
beautiful we must carry it with us or we find it not." "The man that stands by himself the
universe stands by him also." "Take Michael Angelo's course, 'to confide in one's self and
be something of worth and value.'" "None of us will ever accomplish anything excellent or commanding
except when he listens to this whisper which is heard by him alone."

Many unknown writers would make fame and fortune if, like Bunyan and Milton and Dickens and
George Eliot and Scott and Emerson, they would write their own lives in their MSS., if they
would write about things they have seen, that they have felt, that they have known. It is life
thoughts that stir and convince, that move and persuade, that carry their very iron particles
into the blood. The real heaven has never been outdone by the ideal.

Neither poverty nor misfortune could keep Linnæus from his botany.

The English and Austrian armies called Napoleon the one-hundred-thousand-man. His presence
was considered equal to that force in battle.

The lesson he teaches is that which vigor always teaches--that there is always room for it.
To what heaps of cowardly doubts is not that man's life an answer.

CHAPTER X.

TO BE GREAT, CONCENTRATE.

     Let every one ascertain his special business and calling, and
     then stick to it.
     --FRANKLIN.

     "He who follows two hares is sure to catch neither."

     None sends his arrow to the mark in view,
     Whose hand is feeble, or his aim untrue.
     --COWPER.

     He who wishes to fulfill his mission must be a man of one idea,
     that is, of one great overmastering purpose, overshadowing all
     his aims, and guiding and controlling his entire life.
     --BATE.

     The shortest way to do anything is to do only one thing at a
     time.
     --CECIL.

     The power of concentration is one of the most valuable of
     intellectual attainments.
     --HORACE MANN.

     The power of a man increases steadily by continuance in one
     direction.
     --EMERSON.

     Careful attention to one thing often proves superior to genius
     and art.
     --CICERO.

"It puffed like a locomotive," said a boy of the donkey engine; "it whistled like the steam-cars,
but it didn't go anywhere."

The world is full of donkey-engines, of people who can whistle and puff and pull, but they
don't go anywhere, they have no definite aim, no controlling purpose. What a lesson of the
power of concentration there is in that man's life! He was such a master of himself that he
could concentrate his powers upon the smallest detail as well as upon an empire.

When Napoleon had anything to say he always went straight to his mark. He had a purpose in
everything he did; there was no dilly-dallying nor shilly-shallying; he knew what he wanted
to say, and said it. It was the same with all his plans; what he wanted to do, he did. He knew
what he wanted to do, and did it.

The sun's rays scattered do no execution, but concentrated in a burning glass, they melt solid
granite; yes, a diamond, even. They lack the burning glass of a purpose, to focalize upon one
spot the separate rays of their ability. Versatile men, universal geniuses, are usually weak,
because they have no power to concentrate the rays of their ability, to focalize them upon
one point, until they burn a hole in whatever they undertake.

This power to bring all of one's scattered forces into one focal point makes all the difference
between success and failure. The sun might blaze out upon the earth forever without burning
a hole in it or setting anything on fire; whereas a very few of these rays concentrated in
a burning glass would, as stated, transform a diamond into vapor.

Sir James Mackintosh was a man of marvelous ability. He excited in everybody who knew him great
expectations, but there was no purpose in his life to act as a burning glass to collect the
brilliant rays of his intellect, by which he might have dazzled the world. Most men have ability
enough, if they could only focalize it into one grand, central, all-absorbing purpose, to accomplish
great things.

"To encourage me in my efforts to cultivate the power of attention," said a friend of John
C. Calhoun, "he stated that to this end he had early subjected his mind to such a rigid course
of discipline, and had persisted without faltering until he had acquired a perfect control
over it; that he could now confine it to any subject as long as he pleased, without wandering
even for a moment; that it was his uniform habit, when he set out alone to walk or ride, to
select a subject for reflection, and that he never suffered his attention to wander from it
until he was satisfied with its examination."

"My friend laughs at me because I have but one idea," said a learned American chemist; "but
I have learned that if I wish ever to make a breach in a wall, I must play my guns continually
upon one point."

"It is his will that has made him what he is," said an intimate friend of Philip D. Armour,
the Chicago millionaire. "He fixes his eye on something ahead, and no matter what rises upon
the right or the left he never sees it. He goes straight in pursuit of the object ahead, and
overtakes it at last. He never gives up what he undertakes."

While Horace Greeley would devote a column of the New York Tribune to an article, Thurlow Weed
would treat the same subject in a few words in the Albany Evening Journal, and put the argument
into such shape as to carry far more conviction.

"If you would be pungent," says Southey, "be brief; for it is with words as with sunbeams--the
more they are condensed the deeper they burn."

"I resolved, when I began to read law," said Edward Sugden, afterward Lord St. Leonard, "to
make everything I acquired perfectly my own, and never go on to a second reading till I had
entirely accomplished the first.

"Very often," says Sidney Smith, "the modern precept of education is, 'Be ignorant of nothing.'
But my advice is, have the courage to be ignorant of a great number of things, that you may
avoid the calamity of being ignorant of all things."

"Lord, help me to take fewer things into my hands, and to do them well," is a prayer recommended
by Paxton Hood to an overworked man.

"The things that are crowded out of a life are the test of that life. Not what we would like,
but what we long for and strive for with all our might we attain."

"One great cause of failure of young men in business," says Carnegie, "is lack of concentration.
They are prone to seek outside investments. The cause of many a surprising failure lies in
so doing. Every dollar of capital and credit, every business-thought, should be concentrated
upon the one business upon which a man has embarked. He should never scatter his shot. It is
a poor business which will not yield better returns for increased capital than any outside
investment. No man or set of men or corporation can manage a business-man's capital as well
as he can manage it himself. The rule, 'Do not put all your eggs in one basket,' does not apply
to a man's life-work. Put all your eggs in one basket and then watch that basket, is the true
doctrine--the most valuable rule of all."

"A man must not only desire to be right," said Beecher, "he must be right. You may say, 'I
wish to send this ball so as to kill the lion crouching yonder, ready to spring upon me. My
wishes are all right, and I hope Providence will direct the ball.' Providence won't. You must
do it; and if you do not, you are a dead man."

The ruling idea of Milton's life and the key to his mental history is his resolve to produce
a great poem. Not that the aspiration in itself is singular, for it is probably shared in by
every poet in his turn. As every clever schoolboy is destined by himself or his friends to
become Lord-Chancellor, and every private in the French army carries in his haversack the baton
of a marshal, so it is a necessary ingredient of the dream of Parnassus that it should embody
itself in a form of surpassing brilliance. What distinguishes Milton from the crowd of youthful
literary aspirants, audax juventa, is his constancy of resolve. He not only nourished through
manhood the dream of youth, keeping under the importunate instincts which carry off most ambitions
in middle life into the pursuit of place, profit, honor--the thorns which spring up and smother
the wheat--but carried out his dream in its integrity in old age. He formed himself for this
achievement and no other. Study at home, travel abroad, the arena of political controversy,
the public service, the practice of the domestic virtues, were so many parts of the schooling
which was to make a poet.

Bismarck adopted it as the aim of his public life "to snatch Germany from Austrian oppression,"
and to gather round Prussia, in a North German Confederation, all the states whose tone of
thought, religion, manners and interest "were in harmony with those of Prussia." "To attain
this end," he once said in conversation, "I would brave all dangers--exile, the scaffold itself.
What matter if they hang me, provided the rope with which I am hung binds this new Germany
firmly to the Prussian throne?"

It is related of Greeley that, when he was writing his "American Conflict," he found it necessary
to conceal himself somewhere, to prevent constant interruptions. He accordingly took a room
in the Bible house, where he worked from ten in the morning till five in the afternoon, and
then appeared in the sanctum, seemingly as fresh as ever.

Cooper Institute is the evening school which Peter Cooper, as long ago as 1810, resolved to
found some day, when he was looking about as an apprentice for a place where he could go to
school evenings. Through all his career in various branches of business he never lost sight
of this object; and, as his wealth increased, he was pleased that it brought nearer the realization
of his dream.

"See a great lawyer like Rufus Choate," says Dr. Storrs, "in a case where his convictions are
strong and his feelings are enlisted. He saw long ago, as he glanced over the box, that five
of those in it were sympathetic with him; as he went on he became equally certain of seven;
the number now has risen to ten; but two are still left whom he feels that he has not persuaded
or mastered. Upon them he now concentrates his power, summing up the facts, setting forth anew
and more forcibly the principles, urging upon them his view of the case with a more and more
intense action of his mind upon theirs, until one only is left. Like the blow of a hammer,
continually repeated until the iron bar crumbles beneath it, his whole force comes with ceaseless
percussion on that one mind till it has yielded, and accepts the conviction on which the pleader's
purpose is fixed. Men say afterward, 'He surpassed himself.' It was only because the singleness
of his aim gave unity, intensity, and overpowering energy to the mind."

"The foreman of the jury, however," said Whipple, "was a hard-hearted, practical man, a model
of business intellect and integrity, but with an incapacity of understanding any intellect
or conscience radically differing from his own. Mr. Choate's argument, as far as the facts
and the law were concerned, was through in an hour. Still he went on speaking. Hour after hour
passed, and yet he continued to speak with constantly increasing eloquence, repeating and recapitulating,
without any seeming reason, facts which he had already stated and arguments which he had already
urged. The truth was, as I gradually learned, that he was engaged in a hand-to-hand--or rather
in a brain-to-brain and a heart-to-heart--contest with the foreman, whose resistance he was
determined to break down, but who confronted him for three hours with defiance observable in
every rigid line of his honest countenance. 'You fool!' was the burden of the advocate's ingenious
argument. 'You rascal!' was the phrase legibly printed on the foreman's incredulous face. But
at last the features of the foreman began to relax, and at the end the stern lines melted into
acquiescence with the opinion of the advocate, who had been storming at the defences of his
mind, his heart, and his conscience for five hours, and had now entered as victor. The verdict
was 'Not guilty.'"

It is generally thought that when a man is said to be dissipated in his habits he must be a
drinking man, or a gambler, or licentious, or all three; but dissipation is of two kinds, coarse
and refined. A man can dissipate or scatter all of his mental energies and physical power by
indulging in too many respectable diversions, as easily as in habits of a viler nature. Property
and its cares make some men dissipated; too many friends make others. The exactions of "society,"
the balls, parties, receptions, and various entertainments constantly being given and attended
by the beau monde, constitute a most wasting species of dissipation. Others, again, fritter
away all their time and strength in political agitations, or in controversies and gossip; others
in idling with music or some other one of the fine arts; others in feasting or fasting, as
their dispositions and feelings incline. But the man of concentration of purpose is never a
dissipated man in any sense, good or bad. He has no time to devote to useless trifling of any
kind, but puts in as many strokes of faithful work as possible toward the attainment of some
definite good.

CHAPTER XI.

AT ONCE.

     Despatch is the soul of business.
     --CHESTERFIELD.

     Unfaithfulness in the keeping of an appointment is an act of
     clear dishonesty. You may as well borrow a person's money as
     his time.
     --HORACE MANN.

     By the street of by-and-by one arrives at the house of never.
     --CERVANTES.

     The greatest thief this world has ever produced is
     procrastination, and he is still at large.
     --H. W. SHAW.

"Oh, how I do appreciate a boy who is always on time!" says H. C. Bowen.

"Nothing commends a young man so much to his employers," says John Stuart Blackie, "as accuracy
and punctuality in the conduct of his business. And no wonder. On each man's exactitude depends
the comfortable and easy going of his machine. If the clock goes fitfully nobody knows the
time of day; and, if your task is a link in the chain of another man's work, you are his clock,
and he ought to be able to rely on you."

"To-morrow, didst thou say?" asked Cotton. "Go to--I will not hear of it. To-morrow!

"I give it as my deliberate and solemn conviction," said Dr. Fitch, "that the individual who
is tardy in meeting an appointment will never be respected or successful in life."

A man who keeps his time will keep his word; in truth, he cannot keep his word unless he does
keep his time.

When the Duchess of Sutherland came late, keeping the court waiting, the queen, who was always
vexed by tardiness, presented her with her own watch, saying, "I am afraid your's does not
keep good time."

"Then you must get a new watch, or I another secretary," replied Washington, when his secretary
excused the lateness of his attendance by saying that his watch was too slow.

"I have generally found that a man who is good at an excuse is good for nothing else," said
Franklin to a servant who was always late, but always ready with an excuse. Wear threadbare
clothes if you must, but never carry an inaccurate watch.

"Five minutes behind time" has ruined many a man and many a firm.

"He who rises late," says Fuller, "must trot all day, and shall scarcely overtake his business
at night."

Some people are too late for everything but ruin; when a nobleman apologized to George III.
for being late, and said, "better late than never," the king replied, "No, I say, better never
than late."

"Better late than never" is not half so good a maxim as "Better never late."

If Samuel Budgett was even a minute late at an appointment he would apologize; he was as punctual
as a chronometer. Punctuality is contagious. Napoleon infused promptness into his officers
every minute. What power there is in promptness to take the drudgery out of a disagreeable task.

Of Tours, the wealthy New Orleans ship-owner, it is said that he was as methodical and regular
as a clock, and that his neighbors were in the habit of judging of the time of the day by his
movements.

When asked how he got through so much work, Lord Chesterfield replied: "Because I never put
off till morrow what I can do to-day."

Dewitt, pensionary of Holland, answered the same question: "Nothing is more easy; never do
but one thing at a time, and never put off until to-morrow what can be done to-day."

Walter Scott was a very punctual man. This was the secret of his enormous achievements. He
made it a rule to answer all letters the day they were received.

Frederick the Great had a maxim: "Time is the only treasure of which it is proper to be avaricious."

Leibnitz declared that "the loss of an hour is the loss of a part of life."

Napoleon, who knew the value of time, remarked that it was the quarter hours that won battles.
The value of minutes has been often recognized, and any person watching a railway clerk handing
out tickets and change during the last few minutes available must have been struck with how
much could be done in these short periods of time.

At the appointed hour the train starts and by and by is carrying passengers at the rate of
sixty miles an hour. In a second you are carried twenty-nine yards. In one twenty-ninth of
a second you pass over one yard. Now, one yard is quite an appreciable distance, but one twenty-ninth
of a second is a period which cannot be appreciated.

The father of the Webster brothers, before going away to be gone for a week, gave his boys
a stint to cut a field of corn, telling them that after it was done, if they had any time left,
they might do what they pleased. The boys looked the field over on Monday morning and concluded
they could do all the work in three days, so they decided to play the first three days. Thursday
morning they went to the field, but it looked so much larger than it did on Monday morning,
that they decided they could not possibly do it in three days, and rather than not do it all,
they would not touch it. When the angry father returned, he called Ezekiel to him and asked
him why they had not harvested the corn. "What have you been doing?" said the stern father.
"Nothing, father." "And what have you been doing, Daniel?" "Helping Zeke, sir."

How many boys, and men, too, waste hours and days "helping Zeke!"

"Remember the world was created in six days," said Napoleon to one of his officers. "Ask for
whatever you please except time."

Railroads and steamboats have been wonderful educators in promptness. No matter who is late
they leave right on the minute.

It is interesting to watch people at a great railroad station, running, hurrying, trying to
make up time, for they well know when the time arrives the train will leave.

Factories, shops, stores, banks, everything opens and closes on the minute. The higher the
state of civilization the prompter is everything done. In countries without railroads, as in
Eastern countries, everything is behind time. Everybody is indolent and lazy.

The world knows that the prompt man's bills and notes will be paid on the day they are due,
and will trust him. People will give him credit, for they know they can depend upon him. But
lack of promptness will shake confidence almost as quickly as downright dishonesty. The man
who has a habit of dawdling or listlessness will show it in everything he does. He is late
at meals, late at work, dawdles on the street, loses his train, misses his appointments, and
dawdles at his store until the banks are closed. Everybody he meets suffers more or less from
his malady, for dawdling becomes practically a disease.

"You will never find time for anything," said Charles Buxton; "if you want time you must make it."

The best work we ever do is that which we do now, and can never repeat. "Too late," is the
curse of the unsuccessful, who forget that "one to-day is worth two to-morrows."

Time accepts no sacrifice; it admits of neither redemption nor atonement. It is the true avenger.
Your enemy may become your friend,--your injurer may do you justice,--but Time is inexorable,
and has no mercy.

     Then stay the present instant, dear Horatio:
     Imprint the marks of wisdom on its wings.
     'Tis of more worth than kingdoms! far more precious
     Than all the crimson treasures of life's fountain.
     O! let it not elude thy grasp; but, like
     The good old patriarch upon record,
     Hold the fleet angel fast until he bless thee.
     --NATHANIEL COTTON.

CHAPTER XII.

THOROUGHNESS.

     Doing well depends upon doing completely.
     --PERSIAN PROVERB.

     He who does well will always have patrons enough.
     --PLAUTUS.

     No two things differ more than Hurry and Dispatch. Hurry is the
     mark of a weak mind, Dispatch of a strong one. * * * Like a
     turnstile, he (the weak man) is in everybody's way, but stops
     nobody; he talks a great deal, but says very little; looks into
     everything, but sees nothing; and has a hundred irons in the
     fire, but very few of them are hot, and with those few that are
     he only burns his fingers.
     --COLTON.

"Yes," said he one day to the late James Parton, who told this story, "I have made hammers
in this little village for twenty-eight years." "Well," replied the great historian, "by this
time you ought to make a pretty good hammer."

"No, I can't," was the reply, "I can't make a pretty good hammer. I make the best hammer that's
made. My only care is to make a perfect hammer. If folks don't want to pay me what they're
worth, they're welcome to buy cheaper ones somewhere else. My wants are few, and I'm ready
any time to go back to my blacksmith's shop, where I worked forty years ago, before I thought
of making hammers. Then I had a boy to blow by bellows, now I have one hundred and fifteen
men. Do you see them over there watching the heads cook over the charcoal furnace, as your
cook, if she knows what she is about, watches the chops broiling? Each of them is hammered
out of a piece of iron, and is tempered under the inspection of an experienced man. Every handle
is seasoned three years, or until there is no shrink left in it. Once I thought I could use
machinery in manufacturing them; now I know that a perfect tool can't be made by machinery,
and every bit of the work is done by hand."

"In telling this little story," said Parton, "I have told thousands of stories. Take the word
'hammer' out of it, and put 'glue' in its place, and you have the history of Peter Cooper.
By putting in other words, you can make the true history of every great business in the world
which has lasted thirty years." Put thoroughness into your work: it pays.

"The accurate boy is always the favored one," said President Tuttle.

"Mr. Girard, can you not assist me by giving me a little work?" asked one John Smith, who had
formerly worked for the great banker and attracted attention by his activity.

"Assistance--work--ah? You want work?" "Yes sir; it's a long time since I've had anything to do."

"Very well, I shall give you some. You see dem stone yondare?" "Yes, sir." "Very well; you
shall fetch and put them in this place; you see?" "Yes sir." "And when you done, come to me
at my bank."

Smith finished his task, reported to Mr. Girard, and asked for more work. "Ah, ha, oui. You
want more work? Very well; you shall go place dem stone where you got him. Understandez? You
take him back." "Yes, sir."

Again Smith performed the work and waited on Mr. Girard for payment. "Ah, ha, you all finish?"
"Yes, sir." "Very well; how much money shall I give you?" "One dollar, sir." "Dat is honest.
You take no advantage. Dare is your dollar." "Can I do anything else for you?" "Oui, come here
when you get up to-morrow. You shall have more work."

Smith was punctual, but for the third time, and yet again for the fourth, he was ordered to
"take dem stone back again." When he called for his pay in the evening Stephen Girard spoke
very cordially. "Ah, Monsieur Smit, you shall be my man; you mind your own business and do
it, ask no questions, you do not interfere. You got one vife?" "Yes, sir." "Ah, dat is bad.
Von vife is bad. Any little chicks?" "Yes, sir, five living."

"Five? Dat is good; I like five. I like you, Monsieur Smit; you like to work; you mind your
business. Now I do something for your five little chicks. There: take these five pieces of
paper for your five little chicks; you shall work for them; you shall mind your own business,
and your little chicks shall never want five more." In a few years Mr. Smith became one of
the wealthiest and most respected merchants of Philadelphia.

It is difficult to estimate the great influence upon a life of the early formed habit of doing
everything to a finish, not leaving it half done, or pretty nearly done, but completely done.
Nature finishes every little leaf, even to every little rib, its edges and stem, as exactly
and perfectly as though it were the only leaf to be made that year. Even the flower that blooms
in the mountain dell, where no human eye will ever behold it, is finished with the same perfection
and exactness of form and outline, with the same delicate shade of color, with the same completeness
of beauty, as though it was made for royalty in the queen's garden. "Perfection to the finish"
is a motto which every youth should adopt.

"How did you attain such excellence in your profession?" was asked of Sir Joshua Reynolds.
"By observing one simple rule, namely, to make each picture the best," he replied.

The discipline of being exact is uplifting. Progress is never more rapid than it is when we
are studying to be accurate. The effort educates all the powers. Arthur Helps says: "I do not
know that there is anything except it be humility, which is so valuable, as an incident of
education, as accuracy: and accuracy can be taught. Direct lies told to the world are as dust
in the balance when weighed against the falsehoods of inaccuracy."

Too many youths enter upon their business in a languid, half-hearted way, and do their work
in a slipshod manner. The consequence is that they inspire neither admiration nor confidence
on the part of their superiors, and cut off almost every chance of success. There is a loose,
perfunctory method of doing one's work that never merits advance, and very rarely wins it.
Instead of buckling to their task with all the force they possess, they merely touch it with
the tips of their fingers, their rule apparently being, the maximum of ease with the minimum
of work. The principle of Strafford, the great minister of Charles I., is indicated by his
motto, the one word "Thorough." It was said of King Hezekiah, "In every work that he began,
he did it with all his heart and prospered."

The stone-cutter goes to work on a stone and most patiently shapes it. He carves that bit of
fern, putting all his skill and taste into it. And by-and-by the master says, "Well done,"
and takes it away and gives him another block and tells him to work on that. And so he works
on that from the rising of the sun till the going down of the same, and he only knows that
he is earning his bread. And he continues to put all his skill and taste into his work. He
has no idea what use will be made of these few stones which he has been carving, until afterward,
when, one day, walking along the street, and looking up at the front of the Art Gallery, he
sees the stones upon which he has worked. He did not know what they were for, but the architect
did. And as he stands looking at his work on that structure which is the beauty of the whole
street, he says: "I am glad I did it well." And every day as he passes that way, he says to
himself exultingly, "I did it well." He did not draw the design, nor plan the building, and
he knew nothing of what use was to be made of his work: but he took pains in cutting those
stems; and when he saw they were a part of that magnificent structure, his soul rejoiced.

Work that is not finished, is not work at all; it is merely a botch. We often see this defect
of incompleteness in a child, which increases in youth. All about the house, everywhere, there
are half-finished things. It is true that children often become tired of things which they
begin with enthusiasm; but there is a great difference in children about finishing what they
undertake. A boy, for instance, will start out in the morning with great enthusiasm to dig
his garden over; but, after a few minutes, his enthusiasm has evaporated, and he wants to go
fishing. He soon becomes tired of this, and thinks he will make a boat. No sooner does he get
a saw and knife and a few pieces of board about him than he makes up his mind that really what
he wanted to do, after all, was to play ball, and this, in turn, must give way to something else.

One watch, set right, will do to set many by; but, on the other hand, one that goes wrong may
be the means of misleading a whole neighborhood. The same may be said of the example we individually
set to those around us.

"Whatever I have tried to do in life," said Dickens, "I have tried with all my heart to do
well. What I have devoted myself to, I have devoted myself to completely."

It is no disgrace to be a shoemaker, but it is a disgrace for a shoemaker to make bad shoes.

A traveler, recently returned from Jerusalem, found, in conversation with Humboldt, that the
latter was as conversant with the streets and houses of Jerusalem as he was himself. On being
asked how long it was since he had visited it, the aged philosopher replied: "I have never
been there; but I expected to go sixty years since, and I prepared myself."

So noted for excellency was everything bearing the brand of George Washington, that a barrel
of flour marked "George Washington, Mount Vernon," was exempted from the customary inspection
in the West India ports.

Pascal, the most wonderful mathematical genius of his time, whose work on conic sections, at
sixteen, Descartes refused to believe could be produced at that age, is considered to have
fixed the French language, as Luther did the German, by his writings. None of his provincial
letters, with the exception of the last three, was more than eight quarto pages in length,
yet he devoted twenty days to the writing of a single letter, and one of them was written no
less than thirteen times.

The night the Tasmania was wrecked, the captain had given the course north by west, sixty-seven
degrees. He had taken account of eddies and currents. The second officer, overlooking these,
ordered the helmsman to make it north by west, fifty-seven degrees, but to bring the ship around
so gently that the captain wouldn't know it. Hence her destruction.

Rev. Mr. Maley, of the Ohio Conference of the Methodist Church, had the habit of greatly exaggerating
anything he talked about. His brethren at conference told him that this habit was growing on
him, and rendering him unpopular in the ministry. Mr. Maley heard them patiently, and then
said: "Brethren, I am aware of the truth of all you have said, and have shed barrels of tears
over it."

There is a great difference between going just right and a little wrong.

CHAPTER XIII.

TRIFLES.

     In the elder days of Art
       Builders wrought with greatest care
     Each minute and unseen part,
       For the gods see everywhere.
     --LONGFELLOW.

     The smallest hair throws its shadow.
     --GOETHE.

     He that despiseth small things shall fall little by little.
     --ECCLESIASTES.

     "Only!--But then the onlys
     Make up the mighty all."

A gentleman advertised for a boy to assist him in his office, and nearly fifty applicants presented
themselves to him. Out of the whole number he in a short time selected one and dismissed the
rest. "I should like to know," said a friend, "on what ground you selected that boy, who had
not a single recommendation?" "You are mistaken," said the gentleman, "he had a great many.
He wiped his feet when he came in, and closed the door after him, showing that he was careful.
He gave up his seat instantly to that lame old man, showing that he was kind and thoughtful.
He took off his cap when he came in, and answered my questions promptly and respectfully, showing
that he was polite and gentlemanly. He picked up the book which I had purposely laid upon the
floor, and replaced it on the table, while all the rest stepped over it, or shoved it aside;
and he waited quietly for his turn, instead of pushing and crowding, showing that he was honest
and orderly. When I talked to him, I noticed that his clothes were carefully brushed, his hair
in nice order, and his teeth as white as milk; and when he wrote his name, I noticed that his
finger-nails were clean, instead of being tipped with jet, like that handsome little fellow's,
in the blue jacket. Don't you call those letters of recommendation? I do; and I would give
more for what I can tell about a boy by using my eyes ten minutes, than for all the fine letters
he can bring me."

The totality of a life at any moment is the product mainly of little things. Trifling choices,
insignificant exercises of the will, unimportant acts often repeated,--things seemingly of
small account,--these are the thousand tiny sculptors that are carving away constantly at the
rude block of our life, giving it shape and feature. Indeed the formation of character is much
like the work of an artist in stone. The sculptor takes a rough, unshapen mass of marble, and
with strong, rapid strokes of mallet and chisel quickly brings into view the rude outline of
his design; but after the outline appears then come hours, days, perhaps even years, of patient,
minute labor. A novice might see no change in the statue from one day to another; for though
the chisel touches the stone a thousand times, it touches as lightly as the fall of a rain-drop,
but each touch leaves a mark.

The smallest thing becomes respectable when regarded as the commencement of what has advanced
or is advancing into magnificence. The crude settlement of Romulus would have remained an insignificant
circumstance and might have justly sunk into oblivion, if Rome had not at length commanded
the world.

Beecher says that men, in their property, are afraid of conflagrations and lightning strokes;
but if they were building a wharf in Panama, a million madrepores, so small that only the microscope
could detect them, would begin to bore the piles down under the water. There would be neither
noise nor foam; but in a little while, if a child did but touch the post, over it would fall
as if a saw had cut it through.

Men think, with regard to their conduct, that, if they were to lift themselves up gigantically
and commit some crashing sin, they should never be able to hold up their heads; but they will
harbor in their souls little sins, which are piercing and eating them away to inevitable ruin.

Lichens, of themselves of little value, prepare the way for important vegetation. They deposit,
in dying, an acid which wears away the rock and prepares the mould necessary for the nourishment
of superior plants.

It was but a tiny rivulet trickling down the embankment that started the terrible Johnstown
flood and swept thousands into eternity. One noble heroic act has elevated a nation. Franklin's
whole career was changed by a torn copy of Cotton Mather's Essays to Do Good. Taking up a stone
to throw at a turtle was the turning point in Theodore Parker's life. As he raised the stone
something within him said, "Don't do it," and he didn't. He went home and asked his mother
what it was in him that said "don't." She told him it was conscience. Small things become great
when a great soul sees them. A child, when asked why a certain tree grew crooked, answered,
"Somebody trod upon it when it was a little fellow."

The discovery of glass was due to a mere accident--the building of a fire on the sand; and
the bayonet, first made at Bayonne, in France, owes its existence to the fact that a Basque
regiment, being hard pressed by the enemy, one of the soldiers suggested that, as their ammunition
was exhausted, they should fix their long knives into the barrels of their muskets, which was
done, and the first bayonet-charge was made.

A jest led to a war between two great nations. The presence of a comma in a deed, lost to the
owner of an estate five thousand dollars a month for eight months. The battle of Corunna was
fought and Sir John Moore's life sacrificed, in 1809, through a dragoon stopping to drink while
bearing despatches.

"You do no work," said the scissors to the rivet. "Where would your work be," said the rivet
to the scissors, "if I didn't keep you together?"

COURAGE.

     Quit yourselves like men.
     --1 SAMUEL iv. 9.

     Cowards have no luck.
     --ELIZABETH KULMAN.

     He has not learned the lesson of life who does not every day
     surmount a fear.
     --EMERSON.

     To dare is better than to doubt,
       For doubt is always grieving;
     'Tis faith that finds the riddles out;
       The prize is for believing.
     --HENRY BURTON.

                                       --Walk
     Boldly and wisely in that light thou hast;
     There is a hand above will help thee on.
     --BAILEY'S FESTUS.

     "Have hope! Though clouds environ now,
       And gladness hides her face in scorn,
     Put thou the shadow from thy brow--
       No night but hath its morn."

"Our enemies are before us," exclaimed the Spartans at Thermopylæ.

"The hero," says Emerson, "is the man who is immovably centred."

Darius the Great sent ambassadors to the Athenians, to demand earth and water, which denoted
submission. The Athenians threw them into a ditch and told them, there was earth and water enough.

Shakespeare says: "He is not worthy of the honeycomb that shuns the hives because the bees
have stings." And the poor creature again became a mouse.

Young Commodore Oliver H. Perry, not twenty-eight years old, was intrusted with the plan to
gain control of Lake Erie. With great energy Perry directed the construction of nine ships,
carrying fifty-four guns, and conquered Commodore Barclay, a veteran of European navies, with
six vessels, carrying sixty-three guns. Perry had no experience in naval battles before this.

To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so. Feasible projects often miscarry
through despondency, and are strangled at birth by a cowardly imagination. A ship on a lee
shore stands out to sea to escape shipwreck. Shrink and you will be despised.

One of Napoleon's drummer boys won the battle of Arcola. Napoleon's little army of fourteen
thousand men had fought fifty thousand Austrians for seventy-two hours; the Austrians' position
enabled them to sweep the bridge of Arcola, which the French had gained and which they must
hold to win the battle. The drummer boy, on the shoulders of his sergeant (who swam across
the river with him), beat the drum all the way across the river, and when on the opposite end
of the bridge he beat his drum so vigorously that the Austrians, remembering the terrible French
onslaught of the day before, fled in terror, thinking the French army was advancing upon them.
Napoleon dated his great confidence in himself from this drum. This boy's heroic act was represented
in stone on the front of the Pantheon of Paris.

Two days before the battle of Jena Napoleon said: "My lads, you must not fear death: when soldiers
brave death they drive him into the enemy's ranks."

Arago says, in his autobiography, that when he was puzzled and discouraged with difficulties
he met with in his early studies in mathematics some words he found on the waste leaf of his
text-book caught his attention and interested him. He found it to be a short letter from D'Alembert
to a young person, disheartened like himself, and read: "Go on, sir, go on. The difficulties
you meet with will resolve themselves as you advance. Proceed and light will dawn and shine
with increasing clearness on your path." "That maxim," he said, "was my greatest master in
mathematics."

Overtaken near a rocky coast by a sudden storm of great violence, the captain of a French brig
gave orders to put out to sea; but in spite of all the efforts of the crew they could not steer
clear of the rocks, and alter struggling for a whole day they felt a violent shock, accompanied
by a horrible crash. The boats were lowered, but only to be swept away by the waves. As a last
resort the captain proposed that some sailors should swim ashore with a rope, but not a man
would volunteer.

"Captain," said the little twelve-year-old cabin boy, Jacques, timidly, "You don't wish to
expose the lives of good sailors like these; it does not matter what becomes of a little cabin
boy. Give me a ball of strong string, which will unroll as I go on; fasten one end around my
body, and I promise you that within an hour the rope shall be well fastened to the shore or
I will perish in the attempt."

Before anyone could stop him he leaped overboard. His head was soon seen like a black point
rising above the waves and then it disappeared in the distance and mist, and but for the occasional
pull upon the ball of cord all would have thought him dead. At length it fell as if slackened
and the sailors looked at one another in silence, when a quick, violent pull, followed by a
second and a third, told that Jacques had reached the shore. A strong rope was fastened to
the cord and pulled to the shore, and by its aid many of the sailors were rescued.

In 1833 Miss Prudence Crandall, a Quaker schoolmistress of Canterbury, Conn., opened her school
to negro children as well as to whites. The whole place was thrown into uproar; town meetings
were called to denounce her; the most vindictive and inhuman measures were taken to isolate
the school from the support of the townspeople; stores and churches were closed against teacher
and pupils; public conveyances were denied them; physicians would not attend them; Miss Crandall's
own friends dared not visit her; the house was assailed with rotten eggs and stones and finally
set on fire. Yet the cause was righteous and the opposition proved vain and fruitless. Public
opinion is often radically wrong.

Staunch old Admiral Farragut--he of the true heart and the iron will--said to another officer
of the navy, "Dupont, do you know why you didn't get into Charleston with your ironclads?"
"Oh, it was because the channel was so crooked." "No, Dupont, it was not that." "Well, the
rebel fire was perfectly horrible." "Yes, but it wasn't that." "What was it, then?" "It was
because you didn't believe you could go in."

"I have tried Lord Howe on most important occasions. He never asked me how he was to execute
any service entrusted to his charge, but always went straight forward and did it." So answered
Sir Edward Hawke, when his appointment of Howe for some peculiarly responsible duty was criticized
on the ground that Howe was the junior admiral in the fleet.

There is a tradition among the Indians that Manitou was traveling in the invisible world and
came upon a hedge of thorns, then saw wild beasts glare upon him from the thicket, and after
awhile stood before an impassable river. As he determined to proceed, the thorns turned out
phantoms, the wild beasts powerless ghosts, and the river only a shadow. When we march on obstacles
disappear. "You are right," said the Vice-President, "I dare not."

CHAPTER XV.

WILL-POWER.

     In the moral world there is nothing impossible if we can bring
     a thorough will to do it.
     --W. HUMBOLDT.

     It is firmness that makes the gods on our side.
     --VOLTAIRE.

     Stand firm, don't flutter.
     --FRANKLIN.

     People do not lack strength they lack will.
     --VICTOR HUGO.

"Do you know," asked Balzac's father, "that in literature a man must be either a king or a
beggar?" "Very well," replied his son, "I will be a king." After ten years of struggle with
hardship and poverty, he won success as an author.

"Why do you repair that magistrate's bench with such great care?" asked a bystander of a carpenter
who was taking unusual pains. "Because I wish to make it easy against the time when I come
to sit on it myself," replied the other. He did sit on that bench as a magistrate a few years
later.

"I will be marshal of France and a great general," exclaimed a young French officer as he paced
his room with hands tightly clenched. He became a successful general and a marshal of France.

"There is so much power in faith," says Bulwer, "even when faith is applied but to things human
and earthly, that let a man but be firmly persuaded that he is born to do some day, what at
the moment seems impossible, and it is fifty to one but what he does it before he dies."

"Is there one whom difficulties dishearten?" asked John Hunter. "He will do little. Is there
one who will conquer? That kind of a man never fails."

"We have a half belief," said Emerson, "that the person is possible who can counterpoise all
other persons. We believe that there may be a man who is a match for events,--one who never
found his match,--against whom other men being dashed are broken,--one who can give you any
odds and beat you."

At nineteen Bayard Taylor walked to Philadelphia, thirty miles, to find a publisher for fifteen
of his poems. He wanted to see them printed in a book; but no publisher would undertake it.
He returned to his home whistling, however, showing that his courage and resolution had not abated.

In Europe he was often forced to live on twenty cents a day for weeks on account of his poverty.
He returned to London with only thirty cents left. He tried to sell a poem of twelve hundred
lines, which he had in his knapsack, but no publisher wanted it. Of that time he wrote: "My
situation was about as hopeless as it is possible to conceive." But his will defied circumstances
and he rose above them. For two years he lived on two hundred and fifty dollars a year in London,
earning every dollar of it with his pen.

His untimely death in 1879, at fifty-four, when Minister to Berlin, was lamented by the learned
and great of all countries.

We are told of a young New York inventor who about twenty years ago spent every dollar he was
worth in an experiment, which, if successful, would introduce his invention to public notice
and insure his fortune, and, what he valued more, his usefulness. The next morning the daily
papers heaped unsparing ridicule upon him. Hope for the future seemed vain. He looked around
the shabby room where his wife, a delicate little woman, was preparing breakfast. He was without
a penny. He seemed like a fool in his own eyes; all these years of hard work were wasted. He
went into his chamber, sat down, and buried his face in his hands.

At length, with a fiery heat flashing through his body, he stood erect. "It shall succeed!"
he said, shutting his teeth. His wife was crying over the papers when he went back. "They are
very cruel," she said. "They don't understand." "I'll make them understand," he replied cheerfully.
"It was a fight for six years," he said afterward. "Poverty, sickness and contempt followed
me. I had nothing left but the dogged determination that it should succeed." It did succeed.
The invention was a great and useful one. The inventor is now a prosperous and happy man.

Before Pizarro, D'Almagro and De Luque obtained any associates or arms or soldiers, and with
a very imperfect knowledge of the country or the powers they were to encounter, they celebrated
a solemn mass in one of the great churches, dedicating themselves to the conquest of Peru.
The people expressed their contempt at such a monstrous project, and were shocked at such sacrilege.
But these decided men continued the service and afterward retired for their great preparation
with an entire insensibility to the expressions of contempt. Their firmness was absolutely
invincible. The world has deplored the results of this expedition, but there is a great lesson
for us in the firmness of decision of its leaders. Such firmness would keep to its course and
retain its purpose unshaken amidst the ruins of the world.

At the battle of Marengo the French army was supposed to be defeated; but, while Bonaparte
and his staff were considering their next move, Dessaix suggested that there was yet time to
retrieve their disaster, as it was only about the middle of the afternoon. Napoleon rallied
his men, renewed the fight, and won a great victory over the Austrians, though the unfortunate
Dessaix lost his own life on that field. Our successes we ascribe to ourselves; our failures
to destiny.

A vacillating man, no matter what his abilities, is invariably pushed to the wall in the race
of life by a determined will. It is he who resolves to succeed, and who at every fresh rebuff
begins resolutely again, that reaches the goal. The shores of fortune are covered with the
stranded wrecks of men of brilliant ability, but who have wanted courage, faith and decision,
and have therefore perished in sight of more resolute but less capable adventurers, who succeeded
in making port. Hundreds of men go to their graves in obscurity, who have been obscure only
because they lacked the pluck to make a first effort, and who, could they only have resolved
to begin, would have astonished the world by their achievements and successes. The fact is,
as Sydney Smith has well said, that in order to do anything in this world that is worth doing,
we must not stand shivering on the bank, and thinking of the cold and the danger, but jump
in and scramble through as well as we can.

Is not this a grand privilege of man, immortal man, that though he may not be able to stir
a finger; that though a moth may crush him; that merely by a righteous will, he is raised above
the stars; that by it he originates a good in the universe, which the universe could not annihilate;
a good which can defy extinction, though all created energies of intelligence or matter were
combined against it?

A man whose moral nature is ascendant is not the subject, but the superior of circumstances.
He is free; nay, more, he is a king; and though this sovereignty may have been won by many
desperate battles, once on the throne, and holding the sceptre with a firm grasp, he has a
royalty of which neither time nor accident can strip him.

What can you do with a man who has an invincible purpose in him; who never knows when he is
beaten; and who, when his legs are shot off, will fight on the stumps? Difficulties and opposition
do not daunt him. He thrives upon persecution; it only stimulates him to more determined endeavor.
Give a man the alphabet and an iron will, and who shall place bounds to his achievements! Imprison
a Galileo for his discoveries in science, and he will experiment with the straw in his cell.
Deprive Euler of his eyesight, and he but studies harder upon mental problems, thus developing
marvelous powers of mathematical calculation. Lock up the poor Bedford tinker in jail, and
he will write the finest allegory in the world, or will leave his imperishable thoughts upon
the walls of his cell. Burn the body of Wycliffe and throw the ashes into the Severn; but they
will be swept to the ocean, which will carry them, permeated with his principles, to all lands.
The world always listens to a man with a will in him. You might as well snub the sun as such
men as Bismarck and Grant.

Hope would storm the castle of despair; it gives courage when despondency would give up the
battle of life. He is the best doctor who can implant hope and courage in the human soul. So
he is the greatest man who can inspire us to the grandest achievements.

     "Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
     Which we ascribe to heaven; the fated sky
     Gives us free scope; and only backward pulls
     Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull."

     "How much I could do if I only tried."

CHAPTER XVI.

GUARD YOUR WEAK POINT.

     The first and best of victories is for a man to conquer
     himself: to be conquered by himself is, of all things, the most
     shameful and vile.
     --PLATO.

     The worst education which teaches self-denial is better than
     the best which teaches everything else and not that.
     --JOHN STERLING.

     Most powerful is he who has himself in his own power.
     --SENECA.

     The energy which issues in growth, or assimilates knowledge,
     must originate in self and be self-directed.
     --THOMAS J. MORGAN.

     The foes with which they waged their strife
       Were passion, self and sin;
     The victories that laureled life,
       Were fought and won within.
     --EDWARD H. DEWART.

"I'll sign it after awhile," a drunkard would reply, when repeatedly urged by his wife to sign
the pledge; "but I don't like to break off at once, the best way is to get used to a thing."
"Very well, old man," said his wife, "see if you don't fall into a hole one of these days,
with no one to help you out."

Not long after, when intoxicated, he did fall into a shallow well, but his shouts for help
were fortunately heard by his wife. "Didn't I tell you so?" she asked. "It's lucky I was in
hearing or you might have drowned." He took hold of the bucket and she tugged at the windlass;
but when he was near the top her grasp slipped and down he went into the water again. This
was repeated until he screamed: "Look here, you're doing that on purpose, I know you are."
"Well, now, I am," admitted the wife. "Don't you remember telling me it's best to get used
to a thing by degrees? I'm afraid if I bring you up sudden, you would not find it wholesome."
Finding that his case was becoming desperate, he promised to sign the pledge at once. His wife
raised him out immediately, but warned him that if ever he became intoxicated and fell into
the well again, she would leave him there.

A man captured a young tiger and resolved to make a pet of it. It grew up like a kitten, fond
and gentle. There was no evidence of its savage, bloodthirsty nature, and it seemed perfectly
harmless. But one day while the master was playing with his pet, the rough tongue upon his
hand started the blood from a scratch. The moment the beast tasted blood, his ferocious tiger
nature was roused, and he rushed upon his master to tear him to pieces. Sometimes the appetite
for drink, which was thought to be buried years ago, is roused by the taste or the smell of
"the devil in solution," and the wretched victim finds himself a helpless slave to the passion
which he thought dead.

When a young man, Hugh Miller once drank the two glasses of whiskey which fell to his share
at the usual treat of drink of the masons with whom he worked. On reaching home he tried to
read Bacon's Essays, his favorite book, but he could not distinguish the letters or comprehend
the meaning.

In a certain manufacturing town an employer one Saturday paid to his workmen $700 in crisp
new bills that had been secretly marked. On Monday $450 of those identical bills were deposited
in the bank by the saloon-keepers. When the fact was made known, the workmen were so startled
by it that they helped to make the place a no-license town. The times would not be so "hard"
for the workmen if the saloons did not take in so much of their wages. If they would organize
a strike against the saloons, they would find the result to be better than an increase of wages,
and to include an increase of savings.

How often we might read the following sign over the threshold of a youthful life: "For sale,
grand opportunities, for a song;" "golden chances for beer;" "magnificent opportunities exchanged
for a little sensual enjoyment;" "for exchange, a beautiful home, devoted wife, lovely children,
for drink;" "for sale, cheap, all the magnificent possibilities of a brilliant life, a competence,
for one chance in a thousand at the gambling table;" "for exchange, bright prospects, a brilliant
outlook, a cultivated intelligence, a college education, a skilled hand, an observant eye,
valuable experience, great tact, all exchanged for rum, for a muddled brain, a bewildered intellect,
a shattered nervous system, poisoned blood, a diseased body, for fatty degeneration of the
heart, for Bright's disease, for a drunkard's liver."

There was an abbot that desired a piece of ground that lay conveniently for him. The owner
refused to sell; yet with much persuasion he was contented to let it. The abbot hired it and
covenanted only to farm it for one crop. He had his bargain, and sowed it with acorns--a crop
that lasted three hundred years. So Satan asks to get possession of our souls by asking us
to permit some small sin to enter, some one wrong that seems of no great account. But when
once he has entered and planted the seeds and beginnings of evil, he holds his ground.

Thomas A. Edison was once asked why he was a total abstainer. He said, "I thought I had a better
use for my head."

Byron could write poetry easily, for it was merely indulging his natural propensity; but to
curb his temper, soothe his discontent, and control his animal appetites was a very different
thing. At all events, it seemed so great to him that he never seriously attempted self-conquest.
Let every youth who would not be shipwrecked on life's voyage cultivate this one great virtue,
"self-control." There is nothing so important to a youth starting out in life as a thoroughly
trained and cultivated will; everything depends upon it. If he has it, he will succeed; if
he does not have it, he will fail.

"He is a fool who cannot be angry," says English, "but he is a wise man who will not."

It does no good to get angry. Some sins have a seeming compensation or apology, a present gratification
of some sort, but anger has none. A man feels no better for it. It is really a torment, and
when the storm of passion has cleared away, it leaves one to see that he has been a fool. And
he has made himself a fool in the eyes of others too.

But self-respect must be accompanied by self-conquest, or our strong feelings may prove but
runaway horses. He who would command others must first learn to obey, and he who would command
his own powers must learn to be submissive to the still small voice within. Discipline the
passions, curb pride and impatience, restrain all hasty impulses. Deny yourself the gratification
of any desire not sanctioned by reason. Shame and its consequent degradation follow the loss
of our own good opinion rather than the esteem of others. Too many yield in the perpetual conflict
between temptation to gratify the coarser appetites and aspiration for the good, the true,
and the beautiful. Voices unheard by those around us whisper "Don't," but too often self-respect
is lost, the will lies prostrate, and the debauch goes on. Such battles must be fought by all;
be ours the victory born of self-control, aided by that Heaven which always helps him who prays
while putting his own shoulder to the wheel.

No man had a better heart or more thoroughly hated oppression than Edmund Burke. He possessed
neither experience in affairs, nor a tranquil judgment, nor the rule over his own spirit, so
that his genius, under the impulse of his bewildering passions, wrought much evil to his country
and to Europe, even while he rendered noble service to the cause of commercial freedom, to
Ireland, and to America.

Burns could not resist the temptation to utter his clever sarcasms at another's expense, and
one of his biographers has said that he made a hundred enemies for every ten jokes he made.
But Burns could no more control his appetite than his tongue.

     "Thus thoughtless follies laid him low
     And stained his name."

Xanthus, the philosopher, told his servant that on the morrow he was going to have some friends
to dine, and asked him to get the best thing he could find in the market. The philosopher and
his guests sat down the next day at the table. They had nothing but tongue--four or five courses
of tongue--tongue cooked in this way, and tongue cooked in that way, and the philosopher lost
his patience, and said to his servant, "Didn't I tell you to get the best thing in the market?"
He said, "I did get the best thing in the market. Isn't the tongue the organ of sociality,
the organ of eloquence, the organ of kindness, the organ of worship?" Then Xanthus said, "To-morrow
I want you to get the worst thing in the market." And on the morrow the philosopher sat at
the table, and there was nothing there but tongue--four or five courses of tongue--tongue in
this shape, and tongue in that shape--and the philosopher again lost his patience, and said,
"Didn't I tell you to get the worst thing in the market?" The servant replied, "I did; for
isn't the tongue the organ of blasphemy, the organ of defamation, the organ of lying?"

"I can reform my people," said Peter the Great, "but I cannot reform myself." He forbade all
Russians to wear beards, and to quell the insurrection which resulted, he had 8000 revolters
beheaded. With a hatchet he began the ghastly work. He had his own son beheaded.

He who cannot resist temptation is not a man. He is wanting in the highest attributes of humanity.
The honor and nobleness of the old "knight-errantry" consisted in defending the innocence of
men and protecting the chastity of women against the assaults of others. But the truer and
nobler knighthood protects the property and the character, the innocence and the chastity of
others against one's self. We should all be posted upon our weak points, for after all there
are many emergencies in life when these weak points, not our strong ones, will measure our
manhood and our strength. Many a woman whom a mouse would frighten out of her wits would not
shrink from assisting in terrible surgical operations in our city or war hospitals, and many
an officer and soldier who would walk up to the cannon's mouth without a tremor in battle,
would not dare to say his soul was his own in a society parlor. Many a great statesman has
quailed before the ringer of scorn of a fellow-Congressman, and has been completely cowed by
a hiss from the gallery or a ridiculing paragraph in a newspaper. We all have tender spots,
weak spots, and a man can never know his strength who does not study his weaknesses.

"Violent passions and ardent feelings are seldom found united with complete self-command; but
when they are they form the strongest possible character, for there is all the power of clear
thought and cool judgment impelled by the resistless energy of feeling. This combination Washington
possessed; for in his impetuosity there was no foolish rashness, and in his passion no injustice.
Besides, whatever violence there might be within, the explosion seldom came to the surface,
and when it did it was arrested at once by the stern mandate of his will. He never lost the
mastery of himself in any emergency, and in 'ruling his spirit' showed himself greater than
in 'taking a city.'

"It is one of the astonishing things in his life that, amid the perfect chaos of feeling into
which he was thrown,--amid the distracted counsels and still more distracted affairs that surrounded
him,--he never once lost the perfect equilibrium of his own mind. The contagion of fear and
doubt and despair could not touch him. He did not seem susceptible to the common influences
which affect men. His soul poised on its own centre, reposed calmly there through all the storms
that beat for seven years on his noble breast. The ingratitude and folly of those who should
have been his allies, the insults of his foes, and the frowns of fortune never provoked him
into a rash act, or deluded him into a single error."

Horace Mann says that there must be a time when the vista of the future, with all its possibilities
of glory and of shame, first opens to the vision of youth. Then is he summoned to make his
choice between truth and treachery; between honor and dishonor; between purity and profligacy;
between moral life and moral death. And as he doubts or balances between the heavenward or
hellward course; as he struggles to rise or consents to fall; is there in all the universe
of God a spectacle of higher exultation or of deeper pathos? Within him are the appetites of
a brute and the attributes of an angel; and when these meet in council to make up the roll
of his destiny and seal his fate, shall the beast hound out the seraph? Shall the young man,
now conscious of the largeness of his sphere and of the sovereignty of his choice, wed the
low ambitions of the world, and seek, with their emptiness, to fill his immortal desires? Because
he has a few animal wants that must be supplied, shall he become all animal,--an epicure and
an inebriate,--and blasphemously make it the first doctrine of his catechism,--"the Chief End
of Man?"--to glorify his stomach and enjoy it? Because it is the law of self-preservation that
he shall provide for himself, and the law of religion that he shall provide for his family,
when he has one, must he, therefore, cut away all the bonds of humanity that bind him to his
race, forswear charity, crush down every prompting of benevolence, and if he can have the palace
and equipage of the prince, and the table of a sybarite, become a blind man, and a deaf man,
and a dumb man, when he walks the streets where hunger moans and nakedness shivers?

The strong man is the one who ever keeps himself under strict discipline, who never once allows
the lower to usurp the place of the higher in him; who makes his passions his servants and
never allows them to be his master; who is ever led by his mind and not by his inclinations.
He drills and disciplines his desires and keeps the roots of his life under ground, and never
allows them to interfere with his character. He is never the slave of his inclinations, nor
the sport of impulse. He is the commander of himself and heads his ship due north even in the
wildest tempests of passion. He is never the slave of his strongest desire.

A noted teacher has said that the propensities and habits are as teachable as Latin and Greek,
while they are infinitely more essential to happiness. We are very largely the creatures of
our wills. By constantly looking on the bright side of things, by viewing everything hopefully,
by setting the face as a flint every hour of every day toward all that is harmonious and beautiful
in life, and refusing to listen to the discord or to look at the ugly side of life, by constantly
directing the thought toward what is noble, grand and true, we can soon form habits which will
develop into a beautiful character, a harmonious and well-rounded life. We are creatures of
habit, and by knowing the laws of its formation we can, in a little while, build up a network
of habit about us, which will protect us from most of the ugly, selfish and degrading things
of life. In fact, the only real happiness and unalloyed satisfaction we get out of life, is
the product of self-control. It is the great guardian of all the virtues, without which none
of them is safe. It is the sentinel, which stands on guard at the door of life, to admit friends
and exclude enemies.

CHAPTER XVII.

STICK.

     To bear is to conquer fate.
     --CAMPBELL.

"If you will study a year I will teach you to sing well," said an Italian music teacher to
a pupil who wished to know what can be hoped for with study; "if two years, you may excel.
If you will practice the scale constantly for three years, I will make you the best tenor in
Italy; if for four years, you may have the world at your feet."

Perceiving that Caffarelli had a fine tenor voice and unusual talent, a teacher offered to
give him a thorough musical education free of charge, provided the pupil would promise never
to complain of the course of instruction given. The first year the master gave nothing but
the scales, compelling the youth to practice them over and over again. The second year it was
the same, the third, and the fourth, the conditions of the bargain being the only reply to
any question in relation to a change from such monotonous drill. The fifth year the teacher
introduced chromatics and thorough bass, and, at its close, when Caffarelli looked for something
more brilliant and interesting, the master said: "Go, my son, I can teach you nothing more.
You are the first singer of Italy and of the world." The mastery of scales and diatonics gave
him power to sing anything.

"Keep at the helm," said President Porter; "steer your own ship, and remember that the great
art of commanding is to take a fair share of the work. Strike out. Assume your own position.
Put potatoes in a cart, over a rough road, and the small ones go to the bottom."

Titian, the greatest master of color the world has seen, used to say: "White, red and black,
these are all the colors that a painter needs, but he must know how to use them." It took fifty
years of constant, hard practice to bring him to his full mastery.

"How much grows everywhere if we do but wait!" exclaims Carlyle. "Not a difficulty but can
transfigure itself into a triumph; not even a deformity, but if our own soul have imprinted
worth on it, will grow dear to us."

Persistency is characteristic of all men who have accomplished anything great. They may lack
in some other particular, have many weaknesses, or eccentricities, but the quality of persistence
is never absent in a successful man. No matter what opposition he meets or what discouragements
overtake him, he is always persistent. Drudgery cannot disgust him, obstacles cannot discourage
him, labor cannot weary him. He will persist, no matter what comes or what goes; it is a part
of his nature. He could almost as easily stop breathing.

It is not so much brilliancy of intellect or fertility of resource as persistency of effort,
constancy of purpose, that makes a great man. Persistency always gives confidence. Everybody
believes in the man who persists. He may meet misfortunes, sorrows and reverses, but everybody
believes that he will ultimately triumph because they know there is no keeping him down. "Does
he keep at it, is he persistent?" is the question which the world asks of a man.

Even the man with small ability will often succeed if he has the quality of persistence, where
a genius without persistence would fail. Virgil worked eleven years on the Æneid.

Sir Fowell Buxton thought he could do as well as others, if he devoted twice as much time and
labor as they did. Ordinary means and extraordinary application have done most of the great
things in the world.

Defoe offered the manuscript of Robinson Crusoe to many booksellers and all but one refused
it. Addison's first play, Rosamond, was hissed off the stage, but the editor of the Spectator
and Tattler was made of stern stuff and was determined that the world should listen to him,
and it did.

David Livingstone said: "Those who have never carried a book through the press can form no
idea of the amount of toil it involves. The process has increased my respect for authors a
thousand-fold. I think I would rather cross the African continent again than undertake to write
another book."

"For the statistics of the negro population of South America alone," says Robert Dale Owen,
"I examined more than a hundred and fifty volumes."

Another author tells us that he wrote paragraphs and whole pages of his book as many as fifty
times.

It is said of one of Longfellow's poems that it was written in four weeks, but that he spent
six months in correcting and cutting it down. Bulwer declared that he had rewritten some of
his briefer productions as many as eight or nine times before their publication. One of Tennyson's
pieces was rewritten fifty times. John Owen was twenty years on his "Commentary on the Epistle
to the Hebrews;" Gibbon on his "Decline and Fall," twenty years; and Adam Clark, on his "Commentary,"
twenty-six years. Carlyle spent fifteen years on his "Frederick the Great."

A great deal of time is consumed in reading before some books are prepared. George Eliot read
1000 books before she wrote "Daniel Deronda." Allison read 2000 before he completed his history.
It is said of another that he read 20,000 and wrote only two books.

Virgil spent several years on the Georgics, which could be printed in two columns of an ordinary
newspaper.

"Generally speaking," said Sydney Smith, "the life of all truly great men has been a life of
intense and incessant labor. They have commonly passed the first half of life in the gross
darkness of indigent humility,--overlooked, mistaken, condemned by weaker men,--thinking while
others slept, reading while others rioted, feeling something within them that told them they
should not always be kept down among the dregs of the world. And then, when their time has
come, and some little accident has given them their first occasion, they have burst out into
the light and glory of public life, rich with the spoils of time, and mighty in all the labors
and struggles of the mind."

"If I am building a mountain," said Confucius, "and stop before the last basketful of earth
is placed on the summit, I have failed."

"Young gentlemen," said Francis Wayland, "remember that nothing can stand day's work."

America will never produce any great art until our resources are developed and we get more
time. As a people we have not yet learned the art of patience. We do not know how to wait.
Think of an American artist spending seven, eight, ten, and even twelve years on a single painting
as did Titian, Michael Angelo and many of the other old masters. Think of an American sculptor
spending years and years upon a single masterpiece, as did the Greeks and Romans. We have not
yet learned the secret of working and waiting.

"The single element in all the progressive movements of my pencil," said the great David Wilkie,
"was persevering industry."

The kind of ability which most men rank highest is that which enables its possessor to do what
he undertakes, and attain the object of his ambition or desire.

"The reader of a newspaper does not see the first insertion of an ordinary advertisement,"
says a French writer. "The second insertion he sees, but does not read; the third insertion
he reads; the fourth insertion he looks at the price; the fifth insertion he speaks of it to
his wife; the sixth insertion he is ready to purchase, and the seventh insertion he purchases."

The large fees which make us envy the great lawyer or doctor are not remuneration for the few
minutes' labor of giving advice, but for the mental stores gathered during the precious spare
moments of many a year while others were sleeping or enjoying holidays. A client will frequently
object to paying fifty dollars for an opinion written in five minutes, but such an opinion
could be written only by one who has read a hundred law books. If the lawyer had not previously
read those books, but should keep a client waiting until he could read them with care, there
would be fewer complaints that fees of this kind are not earned. One monster there is in the
world--an idle man."

CHAPTER XVIII.

SAVE.

     If you want to test a young man and ascertain whether nature
     made him for a king or a subject, give him a thousand dollars
     and see what he will do with it. If he is born to conquer and
     command, he will put it quietly away till he is ready to use it
     as opportunity offers. If he is born to serve, he will
     immediately begin to spend it in gratifying his ruling
     propensity.
     --PARTON.

     The man who builds, and lacks wherewith to pay,
     Provides a home from which to run away.
     --YOUNG.

     For age and want save while you may:
     No morning sun lasts a whole day.
     --FRANKLIN.

"What do you do with all these books?" "Oh, that library is my 'one cigar a day,'" was the
response. "What do you mean?" "Mean! Just this: when you bothered me so about being a man,
and learning to smoke, I'd just been reading about a young fellow who bought books with money
that others would have spent in smoke, and I thought I'd try and do the same. You remember,
I said I should allow myself one cigar a day." "Yes." "Well, I never smoked. I just put by
the price of a five-cent cigar every day, and as the money accumulated I bought books--the
books you see there." "Do you mean to say that those books cost no more than that? Why there
are dollars' worth of them." "Yes, I know there are. I had six years more of my apprenticeship
to serve when you persuaded me to 'be a man.' I put by the money I have told you of, which
of course at five cents a day amounted to $18.25 a year or $109.50 in six years. I keep those
books by themselves, as a result of my apprenticeship cigar-money; and if you'd done as I did,
you would by this time have saved many, many more dollars than that, and been in business besides."

Who does not feel honored by his relationship to Dr. Franklin, whether as a townsman or a countryman,
or even as belonging to the same race? Who does not feel a sort of personal complacency in
that frugality of his youth which laid the foundation for so much competence and generosity
in his mature age; in that wise discrimination of his outlays, which held the culture of the
soul in absolute supremacy over the pleasures of the sense; and in that consummate mastership
of the great art of living, which has carried his practical wisdom into every cottage in Christendom,
and made his name immortal? And yet, how few there are among us who would not disparage, nay,
ridicule and contemn a young man who should follow Franklin's example.

Napoleon examined his domestic bills himself, detected overcharges and errors.

Unfortunately Congress can pass no law that will remedy the vice of living beyond one's means.

Barnum tells the story of one of his acquaintances, whose wife would have a new and elegant
sofa, which in the end cost him thirty thousand dollars. When the sofa reached the house it
was found necessary to get chairs "to match," then sideboards, carpets, and tables, "to correspond"
with them, and so on through the entire stock of furniture, when at last it was found that
the house itself was quite too small and old-fashioned for the furniture, and a new one was
built "to correspond" with the sofa and et ceteras: "thus," added my friend, "running up an
outlay of $30,000 caused by that single sofa, and saddling on me in the shape of servants,
equipage, and the necessary expenses attendant on keeping up a fine 'establishment' a yearly
outlay of eleven thousand dollars, and a habit of extravagance which was a constant menace
to my prosperity."

Cicero said: "Not to have a mania for buying, is to possess a revenue." Many are carried away
by the habit of bargain-buying. "Here's something wonderfully cheap; let's buy it." "Have you
any use for it?" "No, not at present; but it is sure to come in useful, some time."

"If I had but fifty cents a week to live on," said Greeley, "I'd buy a peck of corn and parch
it before I'd owe any man a dollar." Economy is a high, humane office, a sacrament, when its
aim is great; when it is the prudence of simple tastes, when it is practiced for freedom, or
love or devotion. Much of the economy we see in houses is of a base origin, and is best kept
out of sight. Parched corn eaten to-day that I may have roast fowl for my dinner on Sunday,
is a baseness, but parched corn and a house with one apartment, that I may be free of all perturbations,
that I may be serene and docile to what the mind shall speak, and girt and road-ready for the
lowest mission of knowledge or good will, is frugality for gods and heroes.

Like many other boys P. T. Barnum picked up pennies driving oxen for his father, but unlike
many other boys he would invest these earnings in knick-knacks which he would sell to others
on every holiday, thus increasing his pennies to dollars.

In France, all classes, the men as well as the women, study the economy of cookery and practice
it; and there, as many travelers affirm, the people live at one-third the expense of Englishmen
or Americans. There they know how to make savory messes out of remnants that others would throw
away. There they cook no more for each day than is required for that day. With them the art
ranks with the fine arts, and a great cook is as much honored and respected as a sculptor or
a painter. The consequence is, as ex-Secretary McCullough thinks, a French village of 1000
inhabitants could be supported luxuriously on the waste of one of our large American hotels,
and he believes that the entire population of France could be supported on the food which is
literally wasted in the United States. Professor Blot, who resided for some years in the United
States, remarks, pathetically, that here, "where the markets rival the best markets of Europe,
it is really a pity to live as many do live. There are thousands of families in moderately
good circumstances who have never eaten a loaf of really good bread, nor tasted a well-cooked
steak, nor sat down to a properly prepared meal."

There are many who think that economy consists in saving cheese parings and candle ends, in
cutting off two pence from the laundress' bill, and doing all sorts of little, mean, dirty
things. Economy is not meanness. The misfortune is also that this class of persons let their
economy apply only in one direction. They fancy they are so wonderfully economical in saving
a half-penny, where they ought to spend two-pence, that they think they can afford to squander
in other directions. Punch, in speaking of this "one idea" class of people, says, "They are
like a man who bought a penny herring for his family's dinner, and then hired a coach and four
to take it home." I never knew a man to succeed by practicing this kind of economy. True economy
consists in always making the income exceed the out-go. Wear the old clothes a little longer,
if necessary; dispense with the new pair of gloves, live on plainer food if need be. So that
under all circumstances, unless some unforeseen accident occurs, there will be a margin in
favor of the income. A penny here and a dollar there placed at interest go on accumulating,
and in this way the desired result is obtained.

CHAPTER XIX.

LIVE UPWARD.

     "Do what thou dost as if the stake were heaven,
     And this thy last deed ere the judgment day."

     If you wish to reach the highest begin at the lowest.
     --PUBLIUS SYRUS.

     Ambition is the spur that makes man struggle with destiny. It
     is heaven's own incentive to make purpose great and achievement
     greater.
     --ANONYMOUS.

     "Not failure, but low aim, is crime."

     "Endeavor to be first in thy calling, whatever it
     may be; neither let anyone go before thee in well
     doing."

     O may I join the choir invisible
     Of those immortal dead who live again
     In minds made better by their presence; live
     In pulses stirred to generosity,
     In deeds of daring rectitude, in scorn
     For miserable aims that end with self,
     In thoughts sublime that pierce the night like stars,
     And with their mild persistence urge man's search
     To vaster issues.
     --GEORGE ELIOT.

"Alexander, Cæsar, Charlemagne and myself have founded empires," said Napoleon to Montholon
at St. Helena; "but upon what did we rest the creations of our genius? Upon force. Jesus Christ
alone founded his empire on love, and at this moment millions of men would die for Him. I die
before my time and my body will be given back to worms. Such is the fate of him who has been
called the great Napoleon. What an abyss between my deep misery and the eternal kingdom of
Christ, which is proclaimed, loved and adored, and which is extended over the whole earth.
Call you this dying? Is it not rather living? The death of Christ is the death of a God."

"No true man can live a half life," says Phillips Brooks, "when he has genuinely learned that
it is a half life. The other half, the higher half, must haunt him."

"Ideality," says Horace Mann, "is only the avant courier of the mind; and where that in a healthy
and normal state goes I hold it to be a prophecy that realization can follow."

"If the certainty of future fame bore Milton rejoicing through his blindness, or cheered Galileo
in his dungeon," writes Bulwer, "what stronger and holier support shall not be given to him
who has loved mankind as his brothers and devoted his labors to their cause?--who has not sought,
but relinquished, his own renown?--who has braved the present censures of men for their future
benefit, and trampled upon glory in the energy of benevolence? Will there not be for him something
more powerful than fame to comfort his sufferings and to sustain his hopes?"

"If I live," wrote Rufus Choate in his diary in September, 1844, "all blockheads which are
shaken at certain mental peculiarities shall know and feel a reasoner, a lawyer and a man of
business."

I have read that none of the humbler races have the muscle by which man turns his eye upward,
though I am not anatomist enough to be sure of the fact.

"Show me a contented slave," says Burke, "and I will show you a degraded man."

"They truly are faithful," says one writer, "who devote their entire lives to amendment."

General Grant said of the Chinese Wall: "I believe that the labor expended on this wall could
have built every railroad in the United States, every canal and highway, and most, if not all,
our cities."

"The real benefactors of mankind," says Emerson, "are the men and women who can raise their
fellow beings out of the world of corn and money, who make them forget their bank account by
interesting them in their higher selves; who can raise mere money-getters into the intellectual
realm, where they will cease to measure greatness and happiness by dollars and cents; who can
make men forget their stomachs and feast on being's banquet."

"Men are not so much mistaken in desiring to advance themselves," said Beecher, "as in judging
what will be an advance, and what the right method of obtaining it. An ambition which has conscience
in it will always be a laborious and faithful engineer, and will build the road and bridge
the chasms between itself and eminent success by the most faithful and minute performances
of duty. The liberty to go higher than we are is given only when we have fulfilled amply the
duty of our present sphere. Thus men are to rise upon their performances and not upon their
discontent. And this is the secret and golden meaning of the command to be content in whatever
sphere we are placed. It is not to be the content of indifference, of indolence, of unambitious
stupidity, but the content of industrious fidelity. When men are building the foundations of
vast structures they must needs labor far below the surface, and in disagreeable conditions.
But every course of stone which they lay raises them higher; and at length, when they reach
the surface, they have laid such solid work under them that they need not fear now to carry
up their walls, through towering stories, till they overlook the whole neighborhood. A man
proves himself fit to go higher who shows that he is faithful where he is. A man that will
not do well in his present place, because he longs to be higher, is fit neither to be where
he is nor yet above it; he is already too high and should be put lower."

Do that which is assigned thee and thou canst not hope too much, or dare too much. What a man
does, that he has. In himself is his might. Don't waste life on doubts and fears. Spend yourself
on the work before you, well assured that the performance of this hour's duties will be the
best preparation for the hours or ages that follow it.

Tradition says that when Solomon received the gift of an emerald vase from the Queen of Sheba
he filled it with an elixir which he only knew how to prepare, one drop of which would prolong
life indefinitely. A dying criminal begged for a drop of the precious fluid, but Solomon refused
to prolong a wicked life. When good men asked for it they were refused, or failed to obtain
it when promised, as the king would forget or prefer not to open the vase to get but a single
drop. When at last the king became ill, and bade his servants bring the vase, he found that
the contents had all evaporated. So it is often with our hope, our faith, our ambition, our
aspiration.

A man cannot aspire if he looks down. God has not created us with aspirations and longings
for heights to which we cannot climb. Live upward. The unattained still beckons us toward the
summit of life's mountains, into the atmosphere where great souls live and breathe and have
their being. Even hope is but a promise of the possibility of its own fulfillment. Life should
be lived in earnest. It is no idle game, no farce to amuse and be forgotten. It is a stern
reality, fuller of duties than the sky of stars. You cannot have too much of that yearning
which we call aspiration, for, even though you do not attain your ideal, the efforts you make
will bring nothing but blessing; while he who fails of attaining mere worldly goals is too
often eaten up with the canker-worm of disappointed ambition. To all will come a time when
the love of glory will be seen to be but a splendid delusion, riches empty, rank vain, power
dependent, and all outward advantages without inward peace a mere mockery of wretchedness.
The wisest men have taken care to uproot selfish ambition from their breasts. Shakespeare considered
it so near a vice as to need extenuating circumstances to make it a virtue.

Who has not noticed the power of love in an awkward, crabbed, shiftless, lazy man? He becomes
gentle, chaste in language, energetic. Love brings out the poetry in him. It is only an idea,
a sentiment, and yet what magic it has wrought. Nothing we can see has touched the man, yet
he is entirely transformed.

Not less does ambition completely transform a human being, for a woman thirsting for fame can
work where a man equally resolute would faint. He despises ease and sloth, welcomes toil and
hardship, and shakes even kingdoms to gratify his master passion. Mere ambition has impelled
many a man to a life of eminence and usefulness; its higher manifestation, aspiration, has
led him beyond the stars. If the aim be right the life in its details cannot be far wrong.
Your heart must inspire what your hands execute, or the work will be poorly done. The hand
cannot reach higher than does the heart.

But do not strive to reach impossible goals. It is wholly in your power to develop yourself,
but not necessarily so to make yourself a king. How many Presidents of the United States or
Prime Ministers of England are chosen within the working lifetime of a man? What if a thousand
young men resolve to become President or Prime Minister? While such prizes are within your
reach, remember that your will must be tremendous and your qualifications of the highest order,
or you cannot hope to secure them. Too many are deluded by ambition beyond their power of attainment,
or tortured by aspirations totally disproportionate to their capacity for execution. You may,
indeed, confidently hope to become eminent in usefulness and power, but only as you build upon
a broad foundation of self-culture; while, as a rule, specialists in ambition as in science
are apt to become narrow and one-sided. Darwin was very fond of poetry and music when young,
but after devoting his life to science, he was surprised to find Shakespeare tedious. He said
that, if he were to live his life again, he would read poetry and hear music every day, so
as not to lose the power of appreciating such things.

God asks no man whether he will accept life. That is not the choice. You must take it. The
only choice is how.

"When I found I was black," said Dumas, "I resolved to live as if I were white, and so force
men to look below my skin."

In the collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society is a prospectus used by Longfellow
in canvassing, on one of the blank leaves of which are the skeleton stanzas of "Excelsior,"
which he was evidently evolving as he trudged from house to house.

"Disregarding the honors that most men value and looking to the truth," said Plato, "I shall
endeavor in reality to live as virtuously as I can; and, when I die, to die so. And I invite
all other men to the utmost of my power; and you, too, I invite to this contest, which, I affirm,
surpasses all contests here."

"Did you ever hear of a man who had striven all his life faithfully and singly toward an object,
and in no measure obtained it?" asked Thoreau. "If a man constantly aspires, is he not elevated?
Did ever a man try heroism, magnanimity, truth, sincerity, and find that there was no advantage
in them,--that it was a vain endeavor?"

"O if the stone can only have some vision of the temple of which it is to be a part forever,"
exclaimed Phillips Brooks, "what patience must fill it as it feels the blows of the hammer,
and knows that success for it is simply to let itself be wrought into what shape the master wills."

Man never reaches heights above his habitual thought. It is not enough now and then to mount
on wings of ecstasy into the infinite. We must habitually dwell there. The great man is he
who abides easily on heights to which others rise occasionally and with difficulty. Don't let
the maxims of a low prudence daily dinned into your ears lower the tone of your high ambition
or check your aspirations. Hope lifts us step by step up the mysterious ladder, the top of
which no eye hath ever seen. Though we do not find what hope promised, yet we are stronger
for the climbing, and we get a broader outlook upon life which repays the effort. Indeed, if
we do not follow where hope beckons, we gradually slide down the ladder in despair. Strive
ever to be at the top of your condition. A high standard is absolutely necessary.

CHAPTER XX.

"SAND."

     I shall show the cinders of my spirits
     Through the ashes of my chance.
     --SHAKESPEARE.

     Never say "Fail" again.
     --RICHELIEU.

"Well done, Tommy Brooks!" exclaimed his teacher in pleased surprise when the dunce of the
school spoke his piece without omitting a single word. The other boys had laughed when he rose,
for they expected a bad failure. But when the rest of the class had tried, the teacher said
Tommy had done the best of all, and gave him the prize.

"And now tell me," said she, "how you learned the poem so well."

"Please, ma'am, it was the snail on the wall that taught me how to do it," said Tommy. At this
the other pupils laughed aloud, but the teacher said: "You need not laugh, boys, for we may
learn much from such things as snails. How did the snail teach you, Tommy?"

"I saw it crawl up the wall little by little," replied the boy. "It did not stop nor turn back,
but went on, and on; and I thought I would do the same with the poem. So I learned it little
by little, and did not give up. By the time the snail reached the top of the wall, I had learned
the whole poem."

"I may here impart the secret of what is called good and bad luck," said Addison. "There are
men who, supposing Providence to have an implacable spite against them, bemoan in the poverty
of old age the misfortunes of their lives. Luck forever runs against them, and for others.
One with a good profession lost his luck in the river, where he idled away his time a-fishing.
Another with a good trade perpetually burnt up his luck by his hot temper, which provoked all
his employes to leave him. Another with a lucrative business lost his luck by amazing diligence
at everything but his own business. Another who steadily followed his trade, as steadily followed
the bottle. Another who was honest and constant to his work, erred by his perpetual misjudgment,--he
lacked discretion. Hundreds lose their luck by indulging sanguine expectations, by trusting
fraudulent men, and by dishonest gains. A man never has good luck who has a bad wife. I never
knew an early-rising, hard-working, prudent man, careful of his earnings and strictly honest,
who complained of his bad luck. But when I see a tatterdemalion creeping out of a grocery late
in the forenoon with his hands stuck into his pockets, the rim of his hat turned up, and the
crown knocked in, I know he has had bad luck,--for the worst of all luck is to be a sluggard,
a knave, or a tippler."

"You have a difficult subject," said Anthony Trollope at Niagara Falls, to an artist who had
attempted to draw the spray of the waters. "All subjects are difficult," was the reply, "to
a man who desires to do well." "But yours, I fear, is impossible," said Trollope. "You have
no right to say so till I have finished my picture," protested the artist.

"Tell Louisa to stick to her teaching; she can never succeed as a writer." When her father
delivered the rejected manuscript of a story sent to James T. Fields, editor of the Atlantic
Monthly, with the above message, Miss Alcott said, "Tell him I will succeed as a writer, and
some day I shall write for the Atlantic." Not long after she sent an article to the Atlantic
and received a check for $50. With the money she said she bought "a second hand carpet for
the parlor, a bonnet for her sister, shoes and stockings for herself." Her father was calling
upon Longfellow some time after this, when Longfellow took the Atlantic, and said, "I want
to read to you Emerson's fine poem upon Thoreau's flute." Mr. Alcott interrupted him with delight
and said, "My daughter Louisa wrote that."

"Men talk as if victory were something fortunate," says Emerson. "Work is victory. Wherever
work is done victory is obtained. There is no chance and no blanks. You want but one verdict;
if you have your own, you are secure of the rest. But if witnesses are wanted, witnesses are near."

Alexander the Great exclaimed to his soldiers, disaffected after a long campaign, "Go home
and tell them that you left Alexander to conquer the world alone."

"We discount only our own bills, and not those of private persons," said the cashier of the
Bank of England, when a large bill was offered drawn by Anselm Rothschild of Frankfort, on
Nathan Rothschild of London. "Private persons!" exclaimed Nathan, when told of the cashier's
remark; "I will make these gentlemen see what sort of private persons we are." Three weeks
later he presented a five-pound note at the bank at the opening of the office. The teller counted
out five sovereigns, looking surprised that Baron Rothschild should have troubled himself about
such a trifle. The baron examined the coins one by one, weighing them in the balance, as he
said "the law gave him the right to do," put them into a little canvas bag, and offered a second,
then a third, fourth, fiftieth, thousandth note. When a bag was full he handed it to a clerk
in waiting, and proceeded to fill another. In seven hours he had changed £21,000, and, with
nine employes of his house similarly engaged, had occupied the tellers so busily in changing
$1,050,000 worth of notes that no one else could receive attention. The bankers laughed, but
the next morning Rothschild appeared with his nine clerks and several drays to carry away the
gold, remarking, "These gentlemen refuse to pay my bills; I have sworn not to keep theirs.
They can pay at their leisure, only I notify them that I have enough to employ them for two
months." The smiles faded from the features of the bank officials, as they thought of a draft
of $55,000,000 in gold which they did not hold. Next morning notice was given in the newspapers
that the Bank of England would pay Rothschild's bills as well as its own.

A noted philosopher said: "The favors of fortune are like steep rocks; only eagles and creeping
things mount to the summit." Lord Campbell, who became Chief Justice and Lord Chancellor of
England and amassed a large fortune, began life as a drudge in a printing office. A little
observation shows us that, as a rule, the men who accomplish the most in the world are the
most useful, and sensible members of society, the men who are depended upon most in emergencies,
the men of backbone and stamina, the bone and sinew of their communities; the men who can always
be relied upon, who are healthiest and happiest, are, as a rule, of ordinary mental calibre
and medium capacity. But with persistent and untiring industry, these are they, after all,
who carry the burdens and reap the prizes of life. It is the men and women who keep everlastingly
at it, who do not believe themselves geniuses, but who know that if they ever accomplish anything
great, they must do it by common drudgery and persistent industry and with an unwavering aim
in one pursuit. Those who believe themselves geniuses are apt to scatter their efforts and
thus fritter away their great energies without accomplishing anything in proportion to their
high promise. Often the men who promise the most pay the least.

A little boy was asked how he learned to skate. "Oh, by getting up every time I fell down,"
he replied.

The very reputation of being strong-willed, plucky, and indefatigable is of priceless value.
It often cowes enemies and dispels at the start opposition to one's undertakings which would
otherwise be formidable.

"Go it, William!" an old boxer was overheard saying to himself in the midst of a fight; "at
him again!--never say 'die'!"

A striking incident is related of the early experience of George Law, who, in his day, was
one of the most conspicuous financiers and capitalists of New York City. When he was a young
man he went to New York, poor and friendless. One day he was walking along the streets, hungry,
not knowing where his next meal would come from, and passed a new building in course of erection.
Through some accident one of the hod carriers fell from the structure and dropped dead at his
feet. Young Law, in his desperation, applied for the job to take the dead man's place, and
the place was given him. He went to work, and this was how one of the wealthiest and shrewdest
New York business men got his start.

It takes great courage to fight a lost cause when there is no hope even of victory. To contest
every inch of ground with as much persistency and enthusiasm as if we were assured of victory;
this is true courage.

Grit and pluck are not always exhibited only by poor boys who have no chance, for there are
many notable examples of pluck, persistence and real grit among youth in good circumstances,
who never have to fight their way to their own loaf. Mr. Mifflin, who has recently become the
head of the celebrated publishing firm of Houghton, Mifflin & Co., is a notable example of
persistency, push and grit. After graduating at Harvard and traveling abroad, he was determined,
although not obliged to work for a living, to get a position at the Riverside Press in Cambridge.
He called upon the late Mr. Houghton and asked him for a situation. Mr. Houghton told him that
he had no opening, and that, even if he had, he did not believe that a graduate from Harvard
who had money and who had traveled abroad would ever be willing to begin at the bottom and
do the necessary drudgery, for boy's pay. Mr. Mifflin protested that he was not afraid of hard
work, and that he was willing to do anything and take any sort of a position, if he could only
learn the business. But Mr. Houghton would not give him any encouragement. Again and again
Mr. Mifflin came to the Riverside Press, and pressed his suit, but to no purpose. Mr. Mifflin
persuaded his father to intercede for him, but Mr. Houghton succeeded in convincing him that
it would be very unwise for his son to attempt it. But young Mifflin was determined not to
give up. Finally, Mr. Houghton, out of admiration for his persistence and pluck, made a place
for him, which had been occupied by a boy, for $5 a week.

Young Mifflin took hold of the work with such earnestness, and showed so much pluck and determination,
that Mr. Houghton soon called him into the office and raised his pay to $9 a week from the
time he began. Although the young man lived in Boston, he was always at the Riverside Press
in Cambridge early in the morning, and would frequently remain after all the others had gone.
Mr. Houghton happened to go in late one night, after everybody had gone, as he supposed, and
was surprised to find Mr. Mifflin there, taking one of the presses apart. Of course such a
young man would be advanced. These are the boys who become the heads of firms.

CHAPTER XXI.

ABOVE RUBIES.

     The best way to settle the quarrel between capital and labor is
     by allopathic doses of Peter-Cooperism.
     --TALMAGE.

     In the sublimest flights of the soul, rectitude is never
     surmounted, love is never outgrown.
     --EMERSON.

     "One ruddy drop of manly blood the surging sea outweighs."

     Virtue alone out-builds the pyramids:
     Her monuments shall last when Egypt's fall.
     --YOUNG.

     He believed that he was born, not for himself, but for the
     whole world.
     --LUCAN.

     Wherever man goes to dwell, his character goes with him.
     --AFRICAN PROVERB.

     The spirit of a single mind
     Makes that of multitudes take one direction,
     As roll the waters to the breathing wind.
     --BYRON.

"No, say what you have to say in her presence, too," said King Cleomenes of Sparta, when his
visitor Anistagoras asked him to send away his little daughter Gorgo, ten years old, knowing
how much harder it is to persuade a man to do wrong when his child is at his side. So Gorgo
sat at her father's feet, and listened while the stranger offered more and more money if Cleomenes
would aid him to become king in a neighboring country. She did not understand the matter, but
when she saw her father look troubled and hesitate, she took hold of his hand and said, "Papa,
come away--come, or this strange man will make you do wrong." The king went away with the child,
and saved himself and his country from dishonor. Character is power, even in a child. When
grown to womanhood, Gorgo was married to the hero Leonidas. One day a messenger brought a tablet
sent by a friend who was a prisoner in Persia. But the closest scrutiny failed to reveal a
single word or line on the white waxen surface, and the king and all his noblemen concluded
that it was sent as a jest. "Let me take it," said Queen Gorgo; and, after looking it all over,
she exclaimed, "There must be some writing underneath the wax!" They scraped away the wax and
found a warning to Leonidas from the Grecian prisoner, saying that Xerxes was coming with his
immense host to conquer all Greece. Acting on this warning, Leonidas and the other kings assembled
their armies and checked the mighty host of Xerxes, which is said to have shaken the earth
as it marched.

"The man behind the sermon," said William M. Evarts, "is the secret of John Hall's power."
In fact if there is not a man with a character behind it nothing about it is of the slightest
consequence.

In the great monetary panic of 1857, a meeting was called of the various bank presidents of
New York City. When asked what percentage of specie had been drawn during the day, some replied
fifty per cent., some even as high as seventy-five per cent., but Moses Taylor of the City
Bank said: "We had in the bank this morning, $400,000; this evening, $470,000." While other
banks were badly "run," the confidence in the City Bank under Mr. Taylor's management was such
that people had deposited in that institution what they had drawn from other banks. Character
gives confidence.

"There is no such thing as a small country," said Victor Hugo. "The greatness of a people is
no more affected by the number of its inhabitants than the greatness of an individual is measured
by his height."

"It is the nature of party in England," said John Russell, "to ask the assistance of men of
genius, but to follow the guidance of men of character."

"A handful of good life," says George Herbert, "is worth a bushel of learning."

"I have read," Emerson says, "that they who listened to Lord Chatham felt that there was something
finer in the man than anything which he said." It has been complained of Carlyle that when
he has told all his facts about Mirabeau they do not justify his estimate of the latter's genius.
The Gracchi, Agis, Cleomenes, and others of Plutarch's heroes do not in the record of facts
equal their own fame. Sir Philip Sidney and Sir Walter Raleigh are men of great figure and
of few deeds. We cannot find the smallest part of the personal weight of Washington in the
narrative of his exploits. The authority of the name of Schiller is too great for his books.
This inequality of the reputation to the works or the anecdotes is not accounted for by saying
that the reverberation is longer than the thunder-clap; but something resided in these men
which begot an expectation that outran all their performance. The largest part of their power
was latent. This is that which we call character,--a reserved force which acts directly by
presence, and without means. What others effect by talent or eloquence, the man of character
accomplishes by some magnetism. "Half his strength he puts not forth." His victories are by
demonstration of superiority, and not by crossing bayonets. He conquers, because his arrival
alters the face of affairs. "O Iole! how didst thou know that Hercules was a god?" "Because,"
answered Iole, "I was content the moment my eyes fell on him. When I beheld Theseus, I desired
that I might see him offer battle, or at least drive his horses in the chariot-race; but Hercules
did not wait for a contest; he conquered whether he stood, or walked, or sat, or whatever else
he did."

"No man throws away his vote," says Francis Willard, "when he places it in the ballot-box with
his conviction behind it. The party which elected Lincoln in 1860 polled only seven thousand
votes in 1840. Revolutions never go backward, and the fanaticisms of to-day are the victories
of to-morrow."

"O sir, we are beaten," exclaimed the general in command of Sheridan's army, retreating before
the victorious Early. "No, sir," replied the indignant Sheridan; "you are beaten, but this
army is not beaten." Drawing his sword, he waved it above his head, and pointed it at the pursuing
host, while his clarion voice rose above the horrid din in a command to charge once more. The
lines paused, turned,--

    "And with the ocean's mighty swing,
     When heaving to the tempest's wing,
     They hurled them on the foe;"

and the Confederate army was wildly routed.

When war with France seemed imminent, in 1798, President Adams wrote to George Washington,
then a private citizen in retirement at Mount Vernon: "We must have your name, if you will
permit us to use it; there will be more efficacy in it than in many an army." Character is power.

Eighteen hundred years ago, when night closed over the city of Pompeii, a lady sat in her house
nursing her son of ten years of age. The child had been ill for some days; his form was wasted,
his little limbs were shrunk; and we may imagine with what infinite anxiety she watched every
motion of the helpless one, whose existence was so dear. What did take place we know with an
exactness very remarkable. That distant mountain which reared its awful head on the shore of
the bay, Vesuvius, was troubled that same night with an eruption, and threw into the air such
clouds of pumice-stones that the streets and squares of Pompeii became filled, and gradually
the stones grew higher and higher, until they reached the level of the windows. There was no
chance of escape then by the doors; and those who attempted to get away stepped out of their
first floor windows and rushed over the sulphurous stones--a short distance only, for they
were quickly overpowered by the poisonous vapors and fell dead. After the stones there fell
ashes, and after ashes hot water fell in showers, which changed the ashes into clay. Those
who ran out of their houses during the fall of stones were utterly consumed, while those who
waited until the ashes began to fall perished likewise, but their bodies were preserved by
the ashes and water which fell upon them. The Pompeiian mother we have mentioned opened the
window of her house when she thought the fall of stones was over, and with the child in her
arms took a few hurried steps forward, when, overpowered by the sulphur, she fell forward,
at which moment the shower of ashes began to fall, and quickly buried mother and child. The
hot water afterward changed into a mould; the ashes and the sun baked the fatal clay to such
a degree of hardness that it has endured to the present day. A short time ago the spot where
mother and child lay was found, liquid plaster-of-Paris was poured into the mould formed by
the bodies, and then the mould was broken up, leaving the plaster-cast whole. Thus one touching
incident in the terrible tragedy of eighteen centuries ago has been preserved for the admiration
and respect of posterity. The arms and legs of the child showed a contraction and emaciation
which could only result from illness. Of the mother only the right arm was preserved; she fell
upon the ashes, and the remaining portion of her body was consumed. But the right hand still
clasped the legs of the child; on her arm were two gold bracelets, and on her fingers were
two gold rings--one set with an emerald, the other with a cut amethyst. This touching illustration
of a mother's love now rests in the museum of the celebrated city.

"I was sitting with Grant once," says General Fisk, "when a major-general entered, dressed
in the uniform of his rank, who said: 'Boys, I have a good story to tell you. I believe there
are no ladies present.' Grant said, 'No, but there are gentlemen present.'"

Mr. George W. Childs, in referring to this trait, said:

"Another great trait of his character was his purity in every way. I never heard him express
or make an indelicate allusion in any way or shape. There is nothing I ever heard that man
say that could not be repeated in the presence of women."

The writer has heard of several incidents illustrating his answer to impure stories.

Wellington said that Napoleon's presence in the French army was equivalent to forty thousand
additional soldiers, and Richter said of the invincible Luther, "His words were half battles."

"I know no great men," says Voltaire, "except those who have rendered great services to the
human race." Men are measured by what they do; not by what they seem or possess.

When a man's character is gone, all is gone. All peace of mind, all complacency in himself
is fled forever. He despises himself. He is despised by his fellow-men. Within is shame and
remorse; without neglect and reproach. It is better to be poor; it is better to be reduced
to beggary; it is better to be cast into prison, or condemned to perpetual slavery, than to
be destitute of a good name or endure the pains and the evils of a conscious worthlessness
of character.

The time is soon coming when, by the common consent of mankind, it will be esteemed more honorable
to have been John Pounds, putting new and beautiful souls into the ragged children of the neighborhood
while he mended his father's shoes, than to have sat upon the British throne. The time now
is when, if Queen Victoria, in one of her magnificent progresses through her realms, were to
meet that more than American queen, Miss Dix, in her "circumnavigation of charity" among the
insane, the former should kneel and kiss the hand of the latter; and the ruler over more than
a hundred millions of people should pay homage to the angel whom God has sent to the maniac.

"At your age," said to a youth an old man who had honorably held many positions of trust and
responsibility, "both position and wealth appear enduring things; but at mine a man sees that
nothing lasts but character."

Several eminent clergymen were discussing the qualities of self-made men. They each admitted
that they belonged to that class, except a certain bishop, who remained silent, and was intensely
absorbed in the repast. The host was determined to draw him out, and so, addressing him, said:
"All at this table are self-made men, unless the bishop is an exception." The bishop promptly
replied, "I am not made yet," and the reply contained a profound truth. So long as life lasts,
with its discipline of joy or sorrow, its opportunities for good or evil, so long our characters
are being shaped and fixed.

Milton said: "He who would write heroic poems, must make his whole life an heroic poem." We
are responsible for our thoughts, and unless we could command them, mental and moral excellence
would be impossible.

Charles Kingsley has well said: "Let any one set his heart to do what is right and nothing
else, and it will not be long ere his brow is stamped with all that goes to make up the heroic
expression, with noble indignation, noble self-restraint, great hopes, great sorrows, perhaps
even with the print of the martyr's crown of thorns."

Said James Martineau: "God insists on having a concurrence between our practice and our thoughts.
If we proceed to make a contradiction between them, He forthwith begins to abolish it, and
if the will will not rise to the reason, the reason must be degraded to the will."

"When I say, in conducting your understanding," says Sidney Smith, "love knowledge with a great
love, with a vehement love, with a love co-eval with life--what do I say but love innocence,
love virtue, love purity of conduct, love that which, if you are rich and great, will vindicate
the blind fortune which has made you so, and make them call it justice; love that which, if
you are poor, will render your poverty respectable, and make the proudest feel that it is unjust
to laugh at the meanness of your fortunes; love that which will comfort you, adorn you, and
never quit you--which will open to you the kingdom of thought, and all the boundless regions
of conception as an asylum against the cruelty, the injustice, and the pain that may be your
lot in the world--that which will make your motives habitually great and honorable, and light
up in an instant a thousand noble disdains at the very thought of meanness and of fraud?"

The Arabs express this by a parable that incarnates, as is their wont, the Word in the recital.
King Nimrod, say they, one day summoned his three sons into his presence. He ordered to be
set before them three urns under seal. One of the urns was of gold, another of amber, and the
third of clay. The king bade the eldest of his sons choose among the urns that which appeared
to him to contain the treasure of greatest price. The eldest chose the vase of gold, on which
was written the word "Empire." He opened it and found it full of blood. The second chose the
amber vase whereon was written the word "Glory." He opened it and found it contained the ashes
of the great men who had made a sensation in the world. The third son took the only remaining
vase, the one of clay; he found it quite empty, but on the bottom the potter had written the
word "God." "Which of these vases weighs the most?" asked the king of the courtiers. The men
of ambition replied it was the vase of gold; the poets and conquerors, the amber one; the sages
that it was the empty vase, because a single letter of the name God weighs more than the entire
globe. We are of the opinion of the sages. We believe the greatest things are great but in
the proportion of divinity they contain.

"Although genius always commands admiration," says Smiles, "character most secures respect.
The former is more the product of brain-power, the latter of heart-power; and in the long run
it is the heart that rules in life. Men of genius stand to society in the relation of its intellect,
as men of character of its conscience; and while the former are admired, the latter are followed.

"Commonplace though it may appear, this doing of one's duty embodies the highest ideal of life
and character. There may be nothing heroic about it; but the common lot of men is not heroic.
And though the abiding sense of duty upholds man in his highest attitudes, it also equally
sustains him in the transaction of the ordinary affairs of every-day existence. The most influential
of all the virtues are those which are the most in request for daily use. They wear the best
and last the longest. We can always better understand and appreciate a man's real character
by the manner in which he conducts himself toward those who are the most nearly related to
him, and by his transaction of the seemingly commonplace details of daily duty, than by his
public exhibition of himself as an author, an orator, or a statesman. Intellectual culture
has no necessary relation to purity or excellence of character.

"On the contrary, a condition of comparative poverty is compatible with character in its highest
form. A man may possess only his industry, his frugality, his integrity, and yet stand high
in the rank of true manhood.

"Character is property. It is the noblest of possessions. It is an estate in the general good-will
and respect of men; and they who invest in it--though they may not become rich in this world's
goods--will find their reward in esteem and reputation fairly and honorably won. Without principles,
a man is like a ship without rudder or compass, left to drift hither and thither with every
wind that blows."

What a contrast is afforded by the lives of Bacon and More. Bacon sought office with as much
desire as More avoided it; Bacon used as much solicitation to obtain it as More endured to
accept it, and each, when in it, was equally true to his character. More was simple, as Bacon
was ostentatious. More was as incorruptible as Bacon was venal. More spent his private fortune
in office, and Bacon spent the wages of corruption there. Both left office poor in worldly
goods; but while More was rich in honor and good deeds, Bacon was poor in everything; poor
in the mammon for which he bartered his integrity; poor in the gawd for which he sacrificed
his peace; poor in the presence of the worthless; covered with shame in the midst of the people;
trusting his fame to posterity, of which posterity is only able to say, that the wisest of
men was adviser to the silliest of kings, yet that such a king had a sort of majesty when morally
compared with the official director of his conscience. Both More and Bacon served each a great
purpose for the world. More illustrated the beauty of holiness; Bacon expounded the infinitude
of science. Bacon became the prophet of intellect; More, the martyr of conscience. The one
pours over our understandings the light of knowledge; but the other inflames our hearts with
the love of virtue.

All have read of the proud Egyptian king who ordered a colossal staircase built in his new
palace, and was chagrined to find that he required a ladder to climb from one step to the next.
A king's legs are as short as those of a beggar. So, too, a prince's ability to enjoy the pleasures
of life is no greater than that of a pauper.

"All that is valuable in this world is to be had for nothing. Genius, beauty, health, piety,
love, are not bought and sold. The richest man on earth would vainly offer a fortune to be
qualified to write a verse like Milton, or to compose a melody like Mozart. You may summon
all the physicians, but they cannot procure for you the sweet, healthful sleep which the tired
laborer gets without price. Let no man, then, call himself a proprietor. He owns but the breath
as it traverses his lips and the idea as it flits across his mind; and of that breath he may
be deprived by the sting of a bee, and that idea, perhaps, truly belongs to another."

CHAPTER XXII.

MORAL SUNSHINE.

     I have gout, asthma, and seven other maladies, but am otherwise
     very well.
     --SIDNEY SMITH.

     The inborn geniality of some people amounts to genius.
     --WHIPPLE.

     This one sits shivering in fortune's smile,
     Taking his joy with bated, doubtful breath;
     This other, gnawed by hunger, all the while
     Laughs in the teeth of death.
     --T. B. ALDRICH.

     There is no real life but cheerful life.
     --ADDISON.

     Next to the virtue, the fun in this world is what we can least
     spare.
     --AGNES STRICKLAND.

     Joy in one's work is the consummate tool.
     --PHILLIPS BROOKS.

     Joy is the mainspring in the whole
       Of endless Natures calm rotation.
     Joy moves the dazzling wheels that roll
       In the great timepiece of Creation.
     --SCHILLER.

"He is as stiff as a poker," said a friend of a man who could never be coaxed or tempted to
smile. "Stiff as a poker," exclaimed another, "why he would set an example to a poker."

Even Christians are not celebrated for entering into the joy of their Lord.

We are told that "Pascal would not permit himself to be conscious of the relish of his food;
he prohibited all seasonings and spices, however much he might wish for and need them; and
he actually died because he forced his diseased stomach to receive at each meal a certain amount
of aliment, neither more nor less, whatever might be his appetite at the time, or his utter
want of appetite. He wore a girdle armed with iron spikes, which he was accustomed to drive
in upon his body (his fleshless ribs) as often as he thought himself in need of such admonition.
He was annoyed and offended if any in his hearing might chance to say that they had just seen
a beautiful woman. He rebuked a mother who permitted her own children to give her their kisses.
Toward a loving sister, who devoted herself to his comfort, he assumed an artificial harshness
of manner for the express purpose, as he acknowledged, of revolting her sisterly affection."

And all this sprung from the simple principle that earthly enjoyment was inconsistent with
religion.

We should fight against every influence which tends to depress the mind, as we would against
a temptation to crime. A depressed mind prevents the free action of the diaphragm and the expansion
of the chest. It stops the secretions of the body, interferes with the circulation of the blood
in the brain, and deranges the entire functions of the body. Scrofula and consumption often
follow protracted depressions of mind. That "fatal murmur" which is heard in the upper lobes
of the lungs in the first stages of consumption, often follows depressed spirits after some
great misfortune or sorrow. Victims of suicide are almost always in a depressed state from
exhausted vitality, loss of nervous energy, dyspepsia, worry, anxiety, trouble, or grief.

"Mirth is God's medicine," says a wise writer; "everybody ought to bathe in it. Grim care,
moroseness, anxiety--all the rust of life, ought to be scoured off by the oil of mirth." It
is better than emery. Every man ought to rub himself with it. A man without mirth is like a
wagon without springs, in which one is caused disagreeably to jolt by every pebble over which
it runs. A man with mirth is like a chariot with springs, in which one can ride over the roughest
roads and scarcely feel anything but a pleasant rocking motion.

"I have told you," said Southey, "of the Spaniard who always put on spectacles when about to
eat cherries, in order that the fruit might look larger and more tempting. In like manner I
make the most of my enjoyments; and though I do not cast my eyes away from my troubles, I pack
them in as small a compass as I can for myself, and never let them annoy others." We all know
the power of good cheer to magnify everything.

Travelers are told by the Icelanders, who live amid the cold and desolation of almost perpetual
winter, that "Iceland is the best land the sun shines upon."

"You are on the shady side of seventy, I expect?" was asked of an old man. "No," was the reply,
"I am on the sunny side; for I am on the side nearest to glory."

A cheerful man is pre-eminently a useful man. He does not cramp his mind, nor take half-views
of men and things. He knows that there is much misery, but that misery need not be the rule
of life. He sees that in every state people may be cheerful; the lambs skip, birds sing and
fly joyously, puppies play, kittens are full of joyance, the whole air full of careering and
rejoicing insects; that everywhere the good outbalances the bad, and that every evil has its
compensating balm.

"Bishop Fénelon is a delicious man," said Lord Peterborough; "I had to run away from him to
prevent his making me a Christian."

Hume, the historian, never said anything truer than--"To be happy, the person must be cheerful
and gay, not gloomy and melancholy. A propensity to hope and joy is real riches; one to fear
and sorrow, real poverty."

Dr. Johnson once remarked with his point and pith that the custom of looking on the bright
side of every event was better than having a thousand pounds a year income. But Hume rated
the value in dollars and cents of cheerfulness still higher. He said he would rather have a
cheerful disposition always inclined to look on the bright side of things than to be master
of an estate with 10,000 pounds a year.

"We have not fulfilled every duty, unless we have fulfilled that of being pleasant."

"If a word or two will render a man happy," said a Frenchman, "he must be a wretch indeed,
who will not give it. It is like lighting another man's candle with your own, which loses none
of its brilliancy by what the other gains."

The sensible young man, in theory at least, chooses for his wife one who will be able to keep
his house, to be the mother of sturdy children, one who will of all things meet life's experiences
with a sweet temper. It is impossible to imagine a pleasant home with a cross wife, mother
or sister, as its presiding genius. And it is a rule, with exceptions, that good appetite and
sound sleep induce amiability. If, with these advantages, a girl or woman, boy or man, is still
snappish or surly, why it must be due to her or his total depravity.

Some things she should not do; she shouldn't dose herself, or study up her case, or plunge
suddenly into vigorous exercise. Moderation is a safe rule to begin with, and, indeed, to keep
on with--moderation in study, in work, in exercise, in everything except fresh air, good, simple
food, and sleep. Few people have too much of these. The average girl at home can find no more
sanitary gymnastics than in doing part of the lighter housework. This sort of exercise has
object, and interest, and use, which raises it above mere drill. Add to this a merry romp with
younger brothers and sisters, a brisk daily walk, the use for a few moments twice a day of
dumb bells in a cool, airy room, and it is safe to predict a steady advance toward that ideal
state of being in which we forget our bodies and just enjoy ourselves.

"It is not work that kills men," says Beecher; "it is worry. Work is healthy; you can hardly
put more on a man than he can bear. But worry is rust upon the blade. It is not movement that
destroys the machinery, but friction."

Helen Hunt says there is one sin which seems to be everywhere, and by everybody is underestimated
and quite too much overlooked in valuations of character. It is the sin of fretting. It is
as common as air, as speech; so common that unless it rises above its usual monotone we do
not even observe it. Watch any ordinary coming together of people, and we see how many minutes
it will be before somebody frets--that is, makes more or less complaint of something or other,
which probably every one in the room, or car, or on the street corner knew before, and which
most probably nobody can help. Why say anything about it? It is cold, it is hot, it is wet,
it is dry, somebody has broken an appointment, ill-cooked a meal; stupidity or bad faith somewhere
has resulted in discomfort. There are plenty of things to fret about. It is simply astonishing,
how much annoyance and discomfort may be found in the course of every-day living, even of the
simplest, if one only keeps a sharp eye out on that side of things. Some people seem to be
always hunting for deformities, discords and shadows, instead of beauty, harmony and light.
We are born to trouble, as sparks fly upward. But even to the sparks flying upward, in the
blackest of smoke, there is a blue sky above, and the less time they waste on the road, the
sooner they will reach it. Fretting is all time wasted on the road.

About two things we should never fret, that which we cannot help, and that which we can help.
Better find one of your own faults than ten of your neighbor's.

It is not the troubles of to-day, but those of to-morrow and next week and next year, that
whiten our heads and wrinkle our faces.

"Every man we meet looks as if he'd gone out to borrow trouble, with plenty of it on hand,"
said a French lady driving in New York.

The pendulum of a certain clock began to calculate how often it would have to swing backward
and forward in the week and in the month to come; then looking further into the future, it
made a calculation for a year, etc. The pendulum got frightened and stopped. Do one day's work
at a time. Do not worry about the trouble of to-morrow. Most of the trouble in life is borrowed
trouble, which never actually comes.

"As all healthy action, physical, intellectual and moral, depends primarily on cheerfulness,"
says E. P. Whipple, "and as every duty, whether it be to follow a plow or to die at the stake,
should be done in a cheerful spirit, the exploration of the sources and conditions of this
most vigorous, exhilarating and creative of the virtues may be as useful as the exposition
of any topic of science or system of prudential art."

Christ, the great teacher, did not shut Himself up with monks, away from temptation of the
great world outside. He taught no long-faced, gloomy theology. He taught the gospel of gladness
and good cheer. His doctrines are touched with the sunlight, and flavored with the flowers
of the fields. The birds of the air, the beasts of the field, and happy, romping children are
in them. True piety is cheerful as the day.

Cranmer cheers his brother martyrs, and Latimer walks with a face shining with cheerfulness
to the stake, upholds his fellow's spirits, and seasons all his sermons with pleasant anecdotes.

"Nothing will supply the want of sunshine to peaches," said Emerson, "and to make knowledge
valuable, you must have the cheerfulness of wisdom."

In answer to the question, "How shall we overcome temptation," a noted writer said, "Cheerfulness
is the first thing, cheerfulness is the second, and cheerfulness is the third." A habit of
cheerfulness, enabling one to transmute apparent misfortunes into real blessings, is a fortune
to a young man or young woman just crossing the threshold of active life. He who has formed
a habit of looking at the bright, happy side of things, who sees the glory in the grass, the
sunshine in the flowers, sermons in stones, and good in everything, has a great advantage over
the chronic dyspeptic, who sees no good in anything. His habitual thought sculptures his face
into beauty and touches his manner with grace.

We often forget that the priceless charm which will secure to us all these desirable gifts
is within our reach. It is the charm of a sunny temper, a talisman more potent than station,
more precious than gold, more to be desired than fine rubies. It is an aroma, whose fragrance
fills the air with the odors of Paradise.

"It is from these enthusiastic fellows," says an admirer, "that you hear--what they fully believe,
bless them!--that all countries are beautiful, all dinners grand, all pictures superb, all
mountains high, all women beautiful. When such a one has come back from his country trip, after
a hard year's work, he has always found the cosiest of nooks, the cheapest houses, the best
of landladies, the finest views, and the best dinners. But with the other the case is indeed
altered. He has always been robbed; he has positively seen nothing; his landlady was a harpy,
his bedroom was unhealthy, and the mutton was so tough that he could not get his teeth through it."

"He goes on to talk of the sun in his glory," says Izaak Walton, "the fields, the meadows,
the streams which they have seen, the birds which they have heard; he asks what would the blind
and deaf give to see and hear what they have seen."

Of Lord Holland's sunshiny face, Rogers said: "He always comes to breakfast like a man upon
whom some sudden good fortune has fallen."

But oh, for the glorious spectacles worn by the good-natured man!--oh, for those wondrous glasses,
finer than the Claude Lorraine glass, which throw a sunlit view over everything, and make the
heart glad with little things, and thankful for small mercies! Such glasses had honest Izaak
Walton, who, coming in from a fishing expedition on the river Lea, burst out into such grateful
little talks as this: "Let us, as we walk home under the cool shade of this honeysuckle hedge,
mention some of the thoughts and joys that have possessed my soul since we two met. And that
our present happiness may appear the greater, and we more thankful for it, I beg you to consider
with me, how many do at this very time lie under the torment of the gout or the toothache,
and this we have been free from; and let me tell you, that every misery I miss is a new blessing."

The hypochondriac who nurses his spleen never looks forward cheerfully, but lounges in his
invalid chair, and croaks like a raven, foreboding woe. "Ah," says he, "you will never succeed;
these things always fail."

The Thug of India, whose prayer is a homicide, and whose offering is the body of a victim,
is melancholy.

The Fijiian, waiting to smash the skull of a victim, and to prepare a bakola for his gods,
is gloomy as fear and death.

The melancholy of the Eastern Jews after their black fast, and the ill-temper of monks and
nuns after their Fridays and Wednesdays, is very observable; it is the recompense which a proud
nature takes out of the world for its selfish sacrifice. Melancholia is the black bile which
the Greeks presumed overran and pervaded the bodies of such persons; and fasting does undoubtedly
produce this.

"I once talked with a Rosicrucian about the Great Secret," said Addison. "He talked of it as
a spirit that lived in an emerald, and converted everything that was near it to the highest
perfection. It brightens smoke into flame, flame into light, and light into glory. A single
ray dissipates pain and care from the person on whom it falls.' Then I found his great secret
was Content."

     Yet, with a heart that's ever kind,
       A gentle spirit gay,
     You've spring perennial in your mind,
       And round you make a May.
     --THACKERAY.

CHAPTER XXIII.

HOLD UP YOUR HEAD.

     Thoroughly to believe in one's own self, so one's self were
     thorough, were to do great things.
     --TENNYSON.

     If there be a faith that can remove mountains, it is faith in
     one's own power.
     --MARIE EBNER-ESCHENBACH.

     Let no one discourage self-reliance; it is, of all the rest,
     the greatest quality of true manliness.
     --KOSSUTH.

     It needs a divine man to exhibit anything divine. * * * Nothing is at last sacred but the
     integrity of our own mind.
     --EMERSON.

"Yes," said a half-drunken man in a cellar to a parish visitor, a young girl, "I am a tough
and a drunkard, and am just out of jail, and my wife is starving; but that doesn't give you
the right to come into my house without knocking to ask questions."

Another zealous girl declared in a reform club in New York City that she always went to visit
the poor in her carriage, with the crest on the door and liveried servants. "It gives me authority,"
she said. "They listen to my words with more respect."

The Fräulein Barbara, who founded the home for degraded and drunken sailors in London, used
other means to gain influence over them. "I too," she would say, taking the poor applicant
by the hand when he came to her door, "I, too, as well as you, am one of those for whom Christ
died. We are brother and sister, and will help each other."

An English artist, engaged in painting a scene in the London slums, applied to the Board of
Guardians of the poor in Chelsea for leave to sketch into it, as types of want and wretchedness,
certain picturesque paupers then in the almshouse. The board refused permission on the ground
that "a man does not cease to have self-respect and rights because he is a pauper, and that
his misfortunes should not be paraded before the world."

The incident helps to throw light on the vexed problem of the intercourse of the rich with
the poor. Kind but thoughtless people, who take up the work of "slumming," intent upon elevating
and reforming the needy classes, are apt to forget that these unfortunates have self-respect
and rights and sensitive feelings.

"But I am not derided," said Diogenes, when some one told him he was derided. "Only those are
ridiculed who feel the ridicule and are discomposed by it."

Dr. Franklin used to say that if a man makes a sheep of himself the wolves will eat him. Not
less true is it that if a man is supposed to be a sheep, wolves will very likely try to eat him.

"O God, assist our side," prayed the Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, a general in the Prussian service,
before going into battle. "At least, avoid assisting the enemy, and leave the result to me."

"If a man possesses the consciousness of what he is," said Schelling, "he will soon also learn
what he ought to be; let him have a theoretical respect for himself, and a practical will soon
follow." A person under the firm persuasion that he can command resources virtually has them.
"Humility is the part of wisdom, and is most becoming in men," said Kossuth; "but let no one
discourage self-reliance; it is, of all the rest, the greatest quality of true manliness."
Froude wrote: "A tree must be rooted in the soil before it can bear flowers or fruit. A man
must learn to stand upright upon his own feet, to respect himself, to be independent of charity
or accident. It is on this basis only that any superstructure of intellectual cultivation worth
having can possibly be built."

"I think he is a most extraordinary man," said John J. Ingalls, speaking of Grover Cleveland.
"While the Senate was in session to induct Hendricks into office, I had an opportunity to study
Cleveland, as he sat there like a sphinx. He occupied a seat immediately in front of the vice-president's
stand, and from where I sat, I had an unobstructed view of him.

"I wanted to fathom, if possible, what manner of a man it was who had defeated us and taken
the patronage of the government over to the democracy. We had a new master, so to speak, and
a democrat at that, and I looked him over with a good deal of curiosity.

"There sat a man, the president of the United States, beginning his rule over the destinies
of sixty millions of people, who less than three years before was an obscure lawyer, scarcely
known outside of Erie County, shut up in a dingy office over a livery stable. He had been mayor
of the city of Buffalo at a time when a crisis in its affairs demanded a courageous head and
a firm hand and he supplied them. The little prestige thus gained made him the democratic nominee
for governor, and at a time (his luck still following him) when the Republican party of the
State was rent with dissensions. He was elected, and (still more luck) by the unprecedented
and unheard of majority of nearly 200,000 votes. Two years later his party nominated him for
president and he was elected.

"There sat this man before me, wholly undisturbed by the pageantry of the occasion, calmly
waiting to perform his part in the drama, just as an actor awaits his cue to appear on a stage.
It was his first visit to Washington. He had never before seen the Capitol and knew absolutely
nothing of the machinery of government. All was a mystery to him, but a stranger not understanding
the circumstances would have imagined that the proceedings going on before him were a part
of his daily life.

"The man positively did not move a limb, shut an eye or twitch a muscle during the entire hour
he sat in the Senate chamber. Nor did he betray the faintest evidence of self-consciousness
or emotion, and as I thought of the dingy office over the livery stable but three years before
he struck me as a remarkable illustration of the possibilities of American citizenship.

"But the most marvelous exhibition of the man's nerve and of the absolute confidence he has
in himself was yet to come. After the proceedings in the Senate chamber Cleveland was conducted
to the east end of the Capitol to take the oath of office and deliver his inaugural address.
He wore a close buttoned Prince Albert coat, and between the buttons he thrust his right hand,
while his left he carried behind him. In this position he stood until the applause which greeted
him had subsided, when he began his address.

"I looked for him to produce a manuscript, but he did not, and as he progressed in clear and
distinct tones, without hesitation, I was amazed. With sixty millions of people, yes, with
the entire civilized world looking on, this man had the courage to deliver an inaugural address
making him President of the United States as coolly and as unconcernedly as if he were addressing
a ward meeting. It was the most remarkable spectacle this or any other country has ever beheld."

Believe in yourself; you may succeed when others do not believe in you, but never when you
do not believe in yourself.

"Ah! John Hunter, still hard at work!" exclaimed a physician on finding the old anatomist at
the dissecting table. "Yes, doctor, and you'll find it difficult to meet with another John
Hunter when I am gone."

"Heaven takes a hundred years to form a great genius for the regeneration of an empire and
afterward rests a hundred years," said Kaunitz, who had administered the affairs of his country
with great success for half a century. "This makes me tremble for the Austrian monarchy after
my death."

"Isn't it beautiful that I can sing so?" asked Jenny Lind, naïvely, of a friend.

"My Lord," said William Pitt in 1757 to the Duke of Devonshire, "I am sure that I can save
this country and that nobody else can." He did save it.

What seems to us disagreeable egotism in others is often but a strong expression of confidence
in their ability to attain. Great men have usually had great confidence in themselves. Wordsworth
felt sure of his place in history and never hesitated to say so. Dante predicted his own fame.
Kepler said it did not matter whether his contemporaries read his books or not. "I may well
wait a century for a reader since God has waited six thousand years for an observer like myself."
"Fear not," said Julius Cæsar to his pilot frightened in a storm, "thou bearest Cæsar and his
good fortunes."

When the Directory at Paris found that Napoleon had become in one month the most famous man
in Europe they determined to check his career, and appointed Kellerman his associate in command.
Napoleon promptly, but respectfully, tendered his resignation, saying, "One bad general is
better than two good ones; war, like government, is mainly decided by tact." This decision
immediately brought the Directory to terms.

Emperor Francis was extremely anxious to prove the illustrious descent of his prospective son-in-law.
Napoleon refused to have the account published, remarking, "I had rather be the descendant
of an honest man than of any petty tyrant of Italy. I wish my nobility to commence with myself
and derive all my titles from the French people. I am the Rudolph of Hapsburg of my family.
My patent of nobility dates from the battle of Montenotte."

When Napoleon was informed that the British Government had decreed that he should be recognized
only as general, he said, "They cannot prevent me from being myself."

An Englishman asked Napoleon at Elba who was the greatest general of the age, adding, "I think
Wellington." To which the Emperor replied, "He has not yet measured himself against me."

"Self-respect is the early form in which greatness appears."

"You may deceive all the people some of the time," said Lincoln, "some of the people all the
time, but not all the people all the time." We cannot deceive ourselves any of the time, and
the only way to enjoy our own respect is to deserve it. What would you think of a man who would
neglect himself and treat his shadow with the greatest respect?

"Self-reliance is a grand element of character," says Michael Reynolds. "It has won Olympic
crowns and Isthmian laurels; it confers kinship with men who have vindicated their divine right
to be held in the world's memory."

CHAPTER XXIV.

BOOKS AND SUCCESS.

     Ignorance is the curse of God,
     Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven.
     --SHAKESPEARE.

     Prefer knowledge to wealth; for the one is transitory, the
     other perpetual.
     --SOCRATES.

     If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it
     away from him. An investment in knowledge always pays the best
     interest.
     --FRANKLIN.

     My early and invincible love of reading, I would not exchange
     for the treasures of India.
     --GIBBON.

     If the crowns of all the kingdoms of the empire were laid down
     at my feet in exchange for my books and my love of reading, I
     would spurn them all.
     --FÉNELON.

                            Who of us can tell
     What he had been, had Cadmus never taught
     The art that fixes into form the thought,--
     Had Plato never spoken from his cell,
     Or his high harp blind Homer never strung?
     --BULWER.

"Do you want to know," asks Robert Collyer, "how I manage to talk to you in this simple Saxon?
I read Bunyan, Crusoe, and Goldsmith when I was a boy, morning, noon, and night. All the rest
was task work; these were my delight, with the stories in the Bible, and with Shakespeare,
when at last the mighty master came within our doors. The rest were as senna to me. These were
like a well of pure water, and this is the first step I seem to have taken of my own free will
toward the pulpit. * * * I took to these as I took to milk, and, without the least idea what
I was doing, got the taste for simple words into the very fibre of my nature. There was day-school
for me until I was eight years old, and then I had to turn in and work thirteen hours a day.
* * * * From the days when we used to spell out Crusoe and old Bunyan there had grown up in
me a devouring hunger to read books. It made small matter what they were, so they were books.
Half a volume of an old encyclopædia came along--the first I had ever seen. How many times
I went through that I cannot even guess. I remember that I read some old reports of the Missionary
Society with the greatest delight.

"There were chapters in them about China and Labrador. Yet I think it is in reading, as it
is in eating, when the first hunger is over you begin to be a little critical, and will by
no means take to garbage if you are of a wholesome nature. And I remember this because it touches
this beautiful valley of the Hudson. I could not go home for the Christmas of 1839, and was
feeling very sad about it all, for I was only a boy; and sitting by the fire, an old farmer
came in and said: 'I notice thou's fond of reading, so I brought thee summat to read.' It was
Irving's 'Sketch Book.' I had never heard of the work. I went at it, and was 'as them that
dream.' No such delight had touched me since the old days of Crusoe. I saw the Hudson and the
Catskills, took poor Rip at once into my heart, as everybody has, pitied Ichabod while I laughed
at him, thought the old Dutch feast a most admirable thing, and long before I was through,
all regret at my lost Christmas had gone down with the wind, and I had found out there are
books and books. That vast hunger to read never left me. If there was no candle, I poked my
head down to the fire; read while I was eating, blowing the bellows, or walking from one place
to another. I could read and walk four miles an hour. The world centred in books. There was
no thought in my mind of any good to come out of it; the good lay in the reading. I had no
more idea of being a minister than you elder men who were boys then, in this town, had that
I should be here to-night to tell this story. Now, give a boy a passion like this for anything,
books or business, painting or farming, mechanism or music, and you give him thereby a lever
to lift his world, and a patent of nobility, if the thing he does is noble. There were two
or three of my mind about books. We became companions, and gave the roughs a wide berth. The
books did their work, too, about that drink, and fought the devil with a finer fire."

"In education," says Herbert Spencer, "the process of self-development should be encouraged
to the fullest extent. Children should be led to make their own investigations, and to draw
their own inferences. They should be told as little as possible, and induced to discover as
much as possible. Humanity has progressed solely by self-instruction; and that to achieve the
best results each mind must progress somewhat after the same fashion, is continually proved
by the marked success of self-made men."

"My books," said Thomas Hood, "kept me from the ring, the dog-pit, the tavern, and the saloon.

"When I get a little money," said Erasmus, "I buy books, and if any is left, I buy food and
clothes."

"Hundreds of books read once," says Robertson, "have passed as completely from us as if we
had never read them; whereas the discipline of mind got by writing down, not copying, an abstract
of a book which is worth the trouble fixes it on the mind for years, and, besides, enables
one to read other books with more attention and more profit."

"This habit of reading, I make bold to tell you," says Trollope, "is your pass to the greatest,
the purest, and the most perfect pleasures that God has prepared for His creatures. Other pleasures
may be more ecstatic; but the habit of reading is the only enjoyment I know, in which there
is no alloy."

The Bible was begun in the desert in Arabia ages before Homer sang and flourished in Asia Minor.
Millions of books have since gone into oblivion. Empires have risen and fallen. Revolutions
have swept over and changed the earth. It has always been subject to criticism and obloquy.
Mighty men have sought its overthrow. Works of Greek poets who catered to men's depraved tastes
have, in spite of everything, perished. The Bible is a book of religion; and can be tried by
no other standard.

"Read Plutarch," said Emerson, "and the world is a proud place peopled with men of positive
quality, with heroes and demi-gods standing around us who will not let us sleep."

"There is no business, no avocation whatever," says Wyttenbach, "which will not permit a man,
who has an inclination, to give a little time, every day, to the studies of his youth."

"All the sport in the park," said Lady Jane Grey, "is but a shadow of that pleasure I find
in Plato."

"In the lap of Eternity," said Heinsius, "among so many divine souls, I take my seat with so
lofty a spirit and such sweet content, that I pity all the great ones and rich men, that have
not this happiness."

"Death itself divides not the wise," says Bulwer. "Thou meetest Plato when thine eyes moisten
over the Phædo. May Homer live with all men forever!"

"When a man reads," says President Porter, "he should put himself into the most intimate intercourse
with his author, so that all his energies of apprehension, judgment and feeling may be occupied
with, and aroused by, what his author furnishes, whatever it may be. If repetition or review
will aid him in this, as it often will, let him not disdain or neglect frequent reviews. If
the use of the pen, in brief or full notes, in catchwords or other symbols, will aid him, let
him not shrink from the drudgery of the pen and the commonplace book."

"Reading is to the mind," says Addison, "what exercise is to the body. As by the one health
is preserved, strengthened and invigorated, by the other, virtue (which is the health of the
mind) is kept alive, cherished and confirmed."

"There is a world of science necessary in choosing books," said Bulwer. "I have known some
people in great sorrow fly to a novel, or the last light book in fashion. One might as well
take a rose draught for the plague! Light reading does not do when the heart is really heavy.
I am told that Goethe, when he lost his son, took to study a science that was new to him. Ah!
Goethe was a physician who knew what he was about."

"When I served when a young man in India," said a distinguished English soldier and diplomatist;
"when it was the turning point in my life; when it was a mere chance whether I should become
a mere card-playing, hooka-smoking lounger, I was fortunately quartered for two years in the
neighborhood of an excellent library, which was made accessible to me."

"Books," says E. P. Whipple, "are lighthouses erected in the great sea of time."

"As a rule," said Benjamin Disraeli, "the most successful man in life is the man who has the
best information." Sir William Waller observed, "In my study, I am sure to converse with none
but wise men, but abroad it is impossible for me to avoid the society of fools."

"At this hour, five hundred years since their creation," says De Quincey, "the tales of Chaucer,
never equaled on this earth for their tenderness and for life of picturesqueness, are read
familiarly by many in the charming language of their natal day, and by others in the modernization
of Dryden, of Pope, and Wordsworth. At this hour, one thousand eight hundred years since their
creation, the pagan tales of Ovid, never equaled on this earth for the gayety of their movement
and the capricious graces of their narrative, are read by all Christendom."

"There is no Past so long as Books shall live," says Lytton.

"No wonder Cicero said that he would part with all he was worth so he might live and die among
his books," says Geikie. "No wonder Petrarch was among them to the last, and was found dead
in their company. It seems natural that Bede should have died dictating, and that Leibnitz
should have died with a book in his hand, and Lord Clarendon at his desk. Buckle's last words,
'My poor book!' tell a passion that forgot death; and it seemed only a fitting farewell when
the tear stole down the manly cheeks of Scott as they wheeled him into his library, when he
had come back to Abbotsford to die. Southey, white-haired, a living shadow, sitting stroking
and kissing the books he could no longer open or read, is altogether pathetic." It is not easy
to be mean directly after reading a noble and inspiring book. The conversation of a man who
reads for improvement or pleasure will be flavored by his reading; but it will not be about
his reading.

Perhaps no other thing has such power to lift the poor out of his poverty, the wretched out
of his misery, to make the burden-bearer forget his burden, the sick his sufferings, the sorrower
his grief, the downtrodden his degradation, as books. They are friends to the lonely, companions
to the deserted, joy to the joyless, hope to the hopeless, good cheer to the disheartened,
a helper to the helpless. They bring light into darkness, and sunshine into shadow.

"Twenty-five years ago, when I was a boy," said Rev. J. A. James, "a school-fellow gave me
an infamous book, which he lent me for only fifteen minutes. At the end of that time it was
returned to him, but that book has haunted me like a spectre ever since. I have asked God on
my knees to obliterate that book from my mind, but I believe that I shall carry down with me
to the grave the spiritual damage I received during those fifteen minutes."

Did Homer and Plato and Socrates and Virgil ever dream that their words would echo through
the ages, and aid in shaping men's lives in the nineteenth century? They were mere infants
when on earth in comparison with the mighty influence and power they now yield. Every life
on the American continent has in some degree been influenced by them. Christ, when on earth,
never exerted one millionth part of the influence He wields to-day. While He reigns supreme
in few human hearts, He touches all more or less, the atheist as well as the saint. On the
other hand who shall say how many crimes were committed the past year by wicked men buried
long ago? Their books, their pictures, their terrible examples, live in all they reach, and
incite to evil deeds. How important, then, is the selection of books which are to become a
part of your being.

Knowledge cannot be stolen from us. It cannot be bought or sold. We may be poor, and the sheriff
may come and sell our furniture, or drive away our cow, or take our pet lamb, and leave us
homeless and penniless; but he cannot lay the law's hand upon the jewelry of our minds.

"Good books and the wild woods are two things with which man can never become too familiar,"
says George W. Cable. "The friendship of trees is a sort of self-love and is very wholesome.
All inanimate nature is but a mirror, and it is greater far to have the sense of beauty than
it is to be only its insensible depository.

"The books that inspire imagination, whether in truth or fiction; that elevate the thoughts,
are the right kind to read. Our emotions are simply the vibrations of our soul.

"The moment fiction becomes mendacious it is bad, for it induces us to believe a lie. Fiction
purely as fiction must be innocent and beautiful, and its beauty must be more than skin deep.
Every field of art is a playground and we are extra pleased when the artist makes that field
a gymnasium also."

Cotton Mather's "Essay to do Good" read by the boy Franklin influenced the latter's whole life.
He advised everybody to read with a pen in hand and to make notes of all they read.

James T. Fields visited Jesse Pomeroy, the boy murderer, in jail. Pomeroy told him he had been
a great reader of "blood and thunder" stories; that he had read sixty dime novels about scalping
and other bloody performances; and he thought there was no doubt that these books had put the
horrible thoughts into his mind which led to his murderous acts.

Many a boy has gone to sea and become a rover for life under the influence of Marryat's novels.
Abbott's "Life of Napoleon," read at the age of seven years, sent one boy whom I knew to the
army before he was fourteen. Many a man has committed crime from the leavening, multiplying
influence of a bad book read when a boy. The chaplain of Newgate prison in London, in one of
his annual reports to the Lord Mayor, referring to many fine-looking lads of respectable parentage
in the city prison, said that he discovered that "all these boys, without exception, had been
in the habit of reading those cheap periodicals" which were published for the alleged amusement
of youth of both sexes. There is not a police court or a prison in this country where similar
cases could not be found. One can hardly measure the moral ruin that has been caused in this
generation by the influence of bad books.

In the parlor window of the old mossy vicarage where Coleridge spent his dreamy childhood lay
a well-thumbed copy of that volume of Oriental fancy, the "Arabian Nights," and he has told
us with what mingled desire and apprehension he was wont to look at the precious book, until
the morning sunshine had touched and illuminated it, when, seizing it hastily, he would carry
it off in triumph to some leafy nook in the vicarage garden, and plunge delightedly into its
maze of marvels and enchantments.

Beecher said that Ruskin's works taught him the secret of seeing, and that no man could ever
again be quite the same man or look at the world in the same way after reading him. Samuel
Drew said, "Locke's 'Essay on the Understanding' awakened me from stupor, and induced me to
form a resolution to abandon the groveling views I had been accustomed to maintain." An English
tanner, whose leather gained a great reputation, said he should not have made it so good if
he had not read Carlyle. The lives of Washington and Henry Clay, which Lincoln borrowed from
neighbors in the wilderness, and devoured by the light of the cabin fire, inspired his life.
In his early manhood he read Paine's "Age of Reason," and Volney's "Ruins," which so influenced
his mind that he wrote an essay to prove the unreliability of the Bible. These two books nearly
unbalanced his moral character. But, fortunately, the books which fell into his hands in after
years corrected this evil influence. The trend of many a life for good or ill, for success
or failure, has been determined by a single book. The books which we read early in life are
those which influence us most. When Garfield was working for a neighbor he read "Sinbad the
Sailor" and the "Pirate's Own Book." These books revealed a new world to him, and his mother
with difficulty kept him from going to sea. He was fascinated with the sea life which these
books pictured to his young imagination. The "Voyages of Captain Cook" led William Carey to
go on a mission to the heathen. "The Imitation of Christ" and Taylor's "Holy Living and Dying"
determined the character of John Wesley. "Shakespeare and the Bible," said John Sharp, "made
me Archbishop of York." The "Vicar of Wakefield" awakened the poetical genius in Goethe.

"I have been the bosom friend of Leander and Romeo," said Lowell. "I seem to go behind Shakespeare,
and to get my intelligence at first hand. Sometimes, in my sorrow, a line from Spenser steals
in upon my memory as if by some vitality and external volition of its own, like a blast from
the distant trump of a knight pricking toward the court of Faerie, and I am straightway lifted
out of that sadness and shadow into the sunshine of a previous and long-agone experience."

"Who gets more enjoyment out of eating," asks Amos R. Wells, "the pampered millionaire, whose
tongue is the wearied host of myriads of sugary, creamy, spicy guests, or the little daughter
of the laborer, trotting about all the morning with helpful steps, who has come a long two
miles with her father's dinner to eat it with him from a tin pail? And who gets the more pleasure
out of reading, the satiated fiction-glutton, her brain crammed with disordered fragments of
countless scenes of adventure, love and tragedy, impatient of the same old situations, the
familiar characters, the stale plots--she or the girl who is fired with a love for history,
say, who wants to know all about the grand old, queer old Socrates, and then about his friends,
and then about the times in which he lived, and then about the way in which they all lived,
then about the Socratic legacy to the ages? Why, will that girl ever be done with the feast?
Can you not see, looking down on her joy with a blessing, the very Lord of the banquet, who
has ordered all history and ordained that the truth He fashions shall be stranger always than
the fiction man contrives? Take the word of a man who has made full trial of both. Solid reading
is as much more interesting and attractive than frivolous reading as solid living is more recreative
than frivolous living."

"I solemnly declare," said Sidney Smith, "that but for the love of knowledge, I should consider
the life of the meanest hedger and ditcher as preferable to that of the greatest and richest
man in existence; for the fire of our minds is like the fires which the Persians burn in the
mountains, it flames night and day, and is immortal, and not to be quenched! Upon something
it must act and feed--upon the pure spirit of knowledge, or upon the foul dregs of polluting
passions.

Do I feel like hearing an eloquent sermon? Spurgeon and Beecher, Whitefield, Hall, Collyer,
Phillips Brooks, Canon Farrar, Dr. Parker, Talmage, are all standing on my bookcase, waiting
to give me their greatest efforts at a moment's notice. Do I feel indisposed, and need a little
recreation? This afternoon I will take a trip across the Atlantic, flying against the wind
and over breakers without fear of seasickness on the ocean greyhounds. I will inspect the world
renowned Liverpool docks; take a run up to Hawarden, call on Mr. Gladstone; fly over to London,
take a run through the British Museum and see the wonderful collection from all nations; go
through the National Art Gallery, through the Houses of Parliament, visit Windsor Castle and
Buckingham Palace, call upon Queen Victoria, the Prince of Wales; take a run through the lake
region and call upon the great writers, visit Oxford and Cambridge; cross the English Channel,
stop at Rouen, where Joan of Arc was burned to death by the English, take a flying trip to
Paris, visit the tomb of Napoleon, the Louvre Gallery; take a peep at one of the greatest pieces
of sculpture in existence, the Venus de Milo (which a rich and ignorant person offered to buy
if they would give him a fresh one), take a glance at some of the greatest paintings in existence
along the miles of galleries; take a peep into the Grand Opera House, the grandest in the world
(to make room for which 427 buildings were demolished), promenade through the Champs de Elysée,
pass under the triumphal arch of Napoleon, take a run out to Versailles and inspect the famous
palace of Louis XIV., upon which he spent perhaps $100,000,000.

Do I desire to hear eloquent speeches? Through my books I can enter the Parliament and listen
to the thrilling oratory of Disraeli, of Gladstone, of Bright, of O'Connor; they will admit
me to the floor of the Senate, where I can hear the matchless oratory of a Webster, of a Clay,
of a Calhoun, of a Sumner, of Everett, of Wilson. They will pass me into the Roman Forum, where
I can hear Cicero, or to the rostrums of Greece, where I may listen spell-bound to the magic
oratory of a Demosthenes.

"With the dead there is no rivalry," says Macaulay.

"Heed not the idle assertion that literary pursuits will disqualify you for the active business
of life," says Alexander H. Everett. "Reject it as a mere imagination, inconsistent with principle,
unsupported by experience."

The habit of reading may become morbid. There is a novel-reading disease. There are people
who are almost as much tied to their novels as an intemperate man is tied to his bottle. The
more of these novels they read, the weaker their minds become. They remember nothing; they
read for the stimulus; their reasoning powers become weaker and weaker, their memory more treacherous.
The mind is ruined for healthy intellectual food. They have no taste for history or biography,
or anything but cheap, trashy, sensational novels.

The passive reception of other men's thoughts is not education. Beware of intellectual dram
drinking and intellectual dissipation. It is emasculating. Beware of the book which does not
make you determined to go and do something and be something in the world.

The great difference between the American graduate and the graduates from the English universities
is that the latter have not read many books superficially, but a few books well. The American
graduate has a smattering of many books, but has not become master of any. The same is largely
true of readers in general; they want to know a little of everything. They want to read all
the latest publications, good, bad and indifferent, if it is only new. As a rule our people
want light reading, "something to read" that will take up the attention, kill time on the railroad
or at home. As a rule English people read more substantial books, older books, books which
have established their right to exist. They are not so eager for "recent publications."

Joseph Cook advises youth to always make notes of their reading. Mr. Cook uses the margins
of his books for his notes, and marks all of his own books very freely, so that every volume
in his library becomes a notebook. He advises all young men and young women to keep commonplace
books. We cannot too heartily recommend this habit of taking notes. It is a great aid to memory,
and it helps wonderfully to locate or to find for future use what we have read. It helps to
assimilate and make our own whatever we read. The habit of taking notes of lectures and sermons
is an excellent one. One of the greatest aids to education is the habit of writing out an analysis
or a skeleton of a book or article after we have read it; also of a sermon or a lecture. This
habit has made many a strong, vigorous thinker and writer. In this connection we cannot too
strongly recommend the habit of saving clippings from our readings wherever possible of everything
which would be likely to assist us in the future. These scrap-books, indexed, often become
of untold advantage, especially if in the line of our work. Much of what we call genius in
great men comes from these note-books and scrap-books.

How many poor boys and girls who thought they had "no chance" in life have been started upon
noble careers by the grand books of Smiles, Todd, Mathews, Munger, Whipple, Geikie, Thayer,
and others.

You should bring your mind to the reading of a book, or to the study of any subject, as you
take an axe to the grindstone; not for what you get from the stone, but for the sharpening
of the axe. While it is true that the facts learned from books are worth more than the dust
from the stone, even in much greater ratio is the mind more valuable than the axe.

CHAPTER XXV.

RICHES WITHOUT WINGS.

     Walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called.
     --EPH. iv. I.

     Abundance consists not alone in material possession, but in an
     uncovetous spirit.
     --SELDEN.

     Less coin, less care; to know how to dispense with wealth is to
     possess it.
     --REYNOLDS.

     Rich, from the very want of wealth,
     In heaven's best treasures, peace and health.
     --GRAY.

     "Better a cheap coffin and a plain funeral after a useful,
     unselfish life, than a grand mausoleum after a loveless,
     selfish life."

"What property has he left behind him?" people ask when a man dies; but the angel who receives
him asks, "What good deeds hast thou sent before thee?"

"What is the best thing to possess?" asked an ancient philosopher of his pupils. One answered,
"Nothing is better than a good eye,"--a figurative expression for a liberal and contented disposition.
Another said, "A good companion is the best thing in the world;" a third chose a good neighbor;
and a fourth, a wise friend. But Eleazar said: "A good heart is better than them all." "True,"
said the master; "thou hast comprehended in two words all that the rest have said, for he that
hath a good heart will be contented, a good companion, a good neighbor, and will easily see
what is fit to be done by him."

"My kingdom for a horse," said Richard III. of England amid the press of Bosworth Field. "My
kingdom for a moment," said Queen Elizabeth on her death-bed. And millions of others, when
they have felt earth, its riches and power slipping from their grasp, have shown plainly that
deep down in their hearts they value such things at naught when really compared with the blessed
light of life, the stars and flowers, the companionship of friends, and far above all else,
the opportunity of growth and development here and of preparation for future life.

Queen Caroline Matilda of Denmark wrote on the window of her prison, with her diamond ring:
"Oh, keep me innocent; make others great."

"These are my jewels," said Cornelia to the Campanian lady who asked to see her gems; and she
pointed with pride to her boys returning from school. The reply was worthy the daughter of
Scipio Africanus and wife of Tiberius Gracchus. The most valuable production of any country
is its crop of men.

"I will take away thy treasures," said a tyrant to a philosopher. "Nay, that thou canst not,"
was the retort; "for, in the first place, I have none that thou knowest of. My treasure is
in heaven, and my heart is there."

Some people are born happy. No matter what their circumstances are they are joyous, content
and satisfied with everything. They carry a perpetual holiday in their eye and see joy and
beauty everywhere. When we meet them they impress us as just having met with some good luck,
or that they have some good news to tell you. Like the bees that extract honey from every flower,
they have a happy alchemy which transmutes even gloom into sunshine. In the sick room they
are better than the physician and more potent than drugs. All doors open to these people. They
are welcome everywhere.

We make our own worlds and people them, while memory, the scribe, faithfully registers the
account of each as we pass the milestones dotting the way. Are we not, then, responsible for
the inhabitants of our little worlds? We should fill them with the true, the beautiful and
the good, since we are endowed with the faculty of creating.

"Genius," says Whipple, "may almost be defined as the faculty of acquiring poverty." It is
the men of talent who make money out of the work of the men of genius. Somebody has truly said,
that the greatest works have brought the least benefit to their authors. They were beyond the
reach of appreciation before appreciation came. She passed through the field, seeing a great
many well worth gathering, but always hoping to find a larger and more perfect one, she passed
them all by, when, coming to a part of the field where the stalks grew more stunted, she disdained
to take one from these, and so came through to the other side without having selected any.

A man may make millions and be a failure still. Money-making is not the highest success. The
life of a well-known millionaire was not truly successful. He had but one ambition. He coined
his very soul into dollars. The almighty dollar was his sun, and was mirrored in his heart.
He strangled all other emotions and hushed and stifled all nobler aspirations. He grasped his
riches tightly, till stricken by the scythe of death; when, in the twinkling of an eye, he
was transformed from one of the richest men who ever lived in this world to one of the poorest
souls that ever went out of it.

Lincoln always yearned for a rounded wholeness of character; and his fellow lawyers called
him "perversely honest." Nothing could induce him to take the wrong side of a case, or to continue
on that side after learning that it was unjust or hopeless. After giving considerable time
to a case in which he had received from a lady a retainer of two hundred dollars, he returned
the money, saying: "Madam, you have not a peg to hang your case on." "But you have earned that
money," said the lady. "No, no," replied Lincoln, "that would not be right. I can't take pay
for doing my duty."

Agassiz would not lecture at five hundred dollars a night, because he had no time to make money.
Charles Sumner, when a senator, declined to lecture at any price, saying that his time belonged
to Massachusetts and the nation. Spurgeon would not speak for fifty nights in America at one
thousand dollars a night, because he said he could do better: he could stay in London and try
to save fifty souls. All honor to the comparative few in every walk of life who, amid the strong
materialistic tendencies of our age, still speak and act earnestly, inspired by the hope of
rewards other than gold or popular favor. These are our truly great men and women. They labor
in their ordinary vocations with no less zeal because they give time and thought to higher things.

King Midas, in the ancient myth, asked that everything he touched might be turned to gold,
for then, he thought, he would be perfectly happy. His request was granted, but when his clothes,
his food, his drink, the flowers he plucked, and even his little daughter, whom he kissed,
were all changed into yellow metal, he begged that the Golden Touch might be taken from him.
He had learned that many other things are intrinsically far more valuable than all the gold
that was ever dug from the earth.

The "beggarly Homer, who strolled, God knows when, in the infancy and barbarism of the world,"
was richer far than Croesus and added more wealth to the world than the Rothschilds, the Vanderbilts
and Goulds.

An Arab who fortunately escaped death after losing his way in the desert, without provisions,
tells of his feelings when he found a bag full of pearls, just as he was about to abandon all
hope. "I shall never forget," said he, "the relish and delight that I felt on supposing it
to be dried wheat, nor the bitterness and despair I suffered on discovering that the bag contained
pearls."

It is an interesting fact in this money-getting era that a poor author, or a seedy artist,
or a college president with frayed coat-sleeves, has more standing in society and has more
paragraphs written about him in the papers than many a millionaire. This is due, perhaps, to
the malign influence of money-getting and to the benign effect of purely intellectual pursuits.
As a rule every great success in the money world means the failure and misery of hundreds of
antagonists. Every success in the world of intellect and character is an aid and profit to
society. Character is a mark cut upon something, and this indelible mark determines the only
true value of all people and all their work. Dr. Hunter said: "No man was ever a great man
who wanted to be one." Artists cannot help putting themselves and their own characters into
their works. The vulgar artist cannot paint a virtuous picture. The gross, the bizarre, the
sensitive, the delicate, all come out on the canvas and tell the story of his life.

"We say a man is 'made'," said Beecher. "What do we mean? That he has got the control of his
lower instincts, so that they are only fuel to his higher feelings, giving force to his nature?
That his affections are like vines, sending out on all sides blossoms and clustering fruits?
That his tastes are so cultivated that all beautiful things speak to him, and bring him their
delights? That his understanding is opened, so that he walks through every hall of knowledge,
and gathers its treasures? That his moral feelings are so developed and quickened that he holds
sweet commerce with Heaven? O, no--none of these things. He is cold and dead in heart, and
mind, and soul. Only his passions are alive; but--he is worth five hundred thousand dollars!

"And we say a man is 'ruined.' Are his wife and children dead? O, no. Have they had a quarrel,
and are they separated from him? O, no. Has he lost his reputation through crime? No. Is his
reason gone? O, no; it is as sound as ever. Is he struck through with disease? No. He has lost
his property, and he is ruined. The man ruined! When shall we learn that 'a man's life consisteth
not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth?'"

"How is it possible," asks an ancient philosopher, "that a man who has nothing, who is naked,
houseless, without a hearth, squalid, without a slave, without a city, can pass a life that
flows easily? See, God has sent you a man to show you that it is possible. Look at me who am
without a city, without a house, without possessions, without a slave; I sleep on the ground;
I have no wife, no children, no prætorium, but only the earth and heavens, and one poor cloak.
And what do I want? Am I not without sorrow? Am I not without fear? Am I not free? When did
any of you see me failing in the object of my desire? or even falling into that which I would
avoid? Did I ever blame God or man? Did I ever accuse any man? Did any of you ever see me with
a sorrowful countenance?"

"You are a plebeian," said a patrician to Cicero. "I am a plebeian," replied the great Roman
orator; "the nobility of my family begins with me, that of yours will end with you." No man
deserves to be crowned with honor whose life is a failure, and he who lives only to eat and
drink and accumulate money is surely not successful. The world is no better for his living
in it. He never wiped a tear from a sad face, never kindled a fire upon a frozen hearth. There
is no flesh in his heart; he worships no god but gold.

There is scarcely an idea more infectious or potent than the love of money. It is a yellow
fever, decimating its votaries and ruining more families in the land, than all the plagues
or diseases put together. Instances of its malevolent power occur to every reader. Almost every
square foot of land of our continent during the early buccaneer period (some call it the march
of civilization), has been ensanguined through the madness for treasure. Read the pages of
our historian Prescott, and you will see that the whole anti-Puritan history of America resolves
itself into an awful slaughter for gold. Discoveries were only side issues.

Speak, history, who are life's victors? Unroll thy long scroll and say, have they won who first
reached the goal, heedless of a brother's rights? And has he lost in life's great race who
stopped "to raise a fallen child, and place him on his feet again," or to give a fainting comrade
care; or to guide or assist a feeble woman? Has he lost who halts before the throne when duty
calls, or sorrow, or distress? Is there no one to sing the pæan of the conquered who fell in
the battle of life? of the wounded, the beaten, who died overwhelmed in the strife? of the
low and humble, the weary and broken-hearted, who strove and who failed, in the eyes of men,
but who did their duty as God gave them to see it?

"We have yet no man who has leaned entirely on his character, and eaten angel's food," said
Emerson; "who, trusting to his sentiments, found life made of miracles; who, working for universal
aims, found himself fed, he knew not how; clothed, sheltered, and weaponed, he knew not how,
and yet it was done by his own hands."

How many rich dwellings there are, crowded with every appointment of luxury, that are only
glittering caverns of selfishness and discontent! "Better a dinner of herbs where love is,
than a stalled ox and hatred therewith."

"No man can tell whether he is rich or poor by turning to his ledger," says Beecher. "It is
the heart that makes a man rich. He is rich or poor according to what he is, not according
to what he has."

If our thoughts are great and noble, no mean surroundings can make us miserable. It is the
mind that makes the body rich.

PUSHING TO THE FRONT

     OR, SUCCESS UNDER DIFFICULTIES, by ORISON SWETT MARDEN. A book
     of inspiration and help to the youth of America who long to be
     somebody and to do something in the world, many of whom, hedged
     in as it were by iron walls of circumstances feel that they
     have "no chance in life." ==> Passed through a dozen editions
     its first year. It is used in Boston and other public
     schools, and has been republished and heartily received in
     foreign countries.

=With 24 fine full-page portraits. Crown 8vo., $1.50.=

       *       *       *       *       *

     A modern wonder. It should be in the hands of every American
     youth.
     --Bishop Newman.

     It is the most stimulating and suggestive book for young men I
     ever read.
     --Mrs. Mary A. Livermore.

     Best book of the kind ever written.
     --Golden Rule.

     There is an uplift on every page, and wisdom in every
     paragraph.
     --Epworth Herald.

     I have read with unusual interest your book "Pushing to the
     Front." It cannot but be an inspiration to every boy or girl
     who reads it.
     --Wm. McKinley.

     A most interesting and valuable book to the youth of America.
     --Senator Henry Cabot Lodge.

     An admirable book, a timely contribution of advice and
     inspiration to youth.
     --Chauncey M. Depew.

     The author has done a most valuable service to the young life
     of the country.
     --Bishop J. H. Vincent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sold by all booksellers. Sent, postpaid, by

     HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & CO.,
     NEW YORK and BOSTON.

A New, Handsomely Illustrated Magazine. "Architects of Fate," etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

The key note of the magazine will be to inspire, encourage and stimulate to higher purposes
all who are anxious to add to their knowledge and culture, and to make the most of themselves
and their opportunities.

       *       *       *       *       *

FEATURES.

The following departments and subjects will be given especial attention: The Progress of the
World, Self-Culture, Civics, "What Career?" Health, Science and Invention, Literature, Correspondence,
Editorial Talks, Stories of Great Lives, Healthful Sports, Poetry, Short Historical Stories,
Opportunities for Girls, The Young Man in Business, Problems, Incidents and Anecdotes, Miscellaneous
Reading.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARTIAL LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS.

     Charles Dudley Warner.
     Edna Dean Proctor.
     George W. Cable.
     Thos. Wentworth Higginson.
     Oliver Optic.
     Hezekiah Butterworth.
     Bishop John P. Newman.
     Frank H. Vincent.
     Dr. Booker T. Washington.
     Abby Morton Diaz.
     John Ritchie, Jr.
     Marie A. Molineux.
     Rev. Dr. David Gregg.
     Rev. Dr. J. L. Withrow.
     Dr. A. H. Campbell.
     Henry Wood.
     Mary A. Livermore.
     Bishop J. H. Vincent.
     Rev. Edward Everett Hale.
     John Wanamaker.
     William M. Thayer.
     Harriet Prescott Spofford.
     Justice John M. Harlan.
     Rev. Dr. R. S. McArthur.
     Mrs. Sarah White Lee.
     A. E. Winship.
     Helen M. Winslow.
     Frank H. Vizetelly.
     Rev. Dr. Alexander McKenzie.
     Dr. Ellen A. Wallace.
     A.D. Mayo.
     Cyrus C. Adams.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Subscription, $1.00 per year.=

==> =Send in your name for descriptive prospectus, illustrated premium list, and free sample copy.=

       *       *       *       *       *

SUCCESS PUBLISHING CO.,

BOSTON, MASS.

ARCHITECTS OF FATE

     OR, STEPS TO SUCCESS AND POWER, by ORISON SWETT MARDEN. A book
     of inspiration to character-building, self-culture, to a full
     and rich manhood and womanhood, by most invigorating examples
     of noble achievement. It is characterized by the same
     remarkable qualities as its companion volume "Pushing to the
     Front."

=With 32 fine full-page portraits. Crown 8vo., 486 pages, $1.50.=

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Architects of Fate," like "Pushing to the Front," is a
     remarkable book, and of immense value in the training of youth.
     There is inspiration, encouragement and helpfulness on every
     page.
     --Edward Everett Hale.

     There are enough brilliant sayings and lively anecdotes in this
     book to supply an after-dinner speaker or conversationalist for
     a lifetime. It is wise, witty, inspiring.
     --Woman's Journal.

     It will be a missionary of the highest type wherever it goes.
     --New York Times.

     Artistic, logical, stimulating mentally and morally.
     --Rev. Dr. Lorimer.

     It teaches the lofty aim, the high resolve, the fixed purpose,
     the pure ideal.
     --Phila. Public Ledger.

     An ideal book for youth.
     --N. Y. Herald.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sold by all booksellers. Sent, postpaid, by

     HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & CO.,
     NEW YORK and BOSTON.

Transcriber's List of Corrections

     Location
              Original
                       Correction

     CHAPTER VII.
              Diction-tionary [at line break]
                       Dictionary

     CHAPTER XI.
              more of less
                       more or less

     CHAPTER XV.
              battle of life,
                       battle of life.

     CHAPTER XVI.
              philsopher
                       philosopher

     CHAPTER XIX.
              impossbile
                       impossible

     CHAPTER XX.
              notoble
                       notable

     CHAPTER XXI.
              conquerers
                       conquerors

     SUCCESS [advertisement]
              Dr. Brooker T. Washington.
                       Dr. Booker T. Washington.

