A.D. 1072.  This year King William led a naval force and a land force to Scotland, and beset
that land on the sea-side with ships, whilst he led his land-force in at the Tweed; (96) but
he found nothing there of any value.  King Malcolm, however, came, and made peace with King
William, and gave hostages, and became his man; whereupon the king returned home with all his
force. This year died Bishop Aylric.  He had been invested Bishop of York; but that see was
unjustly taken from him, and he then had the bishopric of Durham given him; which he held as
long as he chose, but resigned it afterwards, and retired to Peterborough minster; where he
abode twelve years.  After that King William won England, then took he him from Peterborough,
and sent him to Westminster; where he died on the ides of October, and he is there buried,
within the minster, in the porch of St. Nicholas.

A.D. 1073.  This year led King William an army, English and French, over sea, and won the district
of Maine; which the English very much injured by destroying the vineyards, burning the towns,
and spoiling the land.  But they subdued it all into the hand of King William, and afterwards
returned home to England.

A.D. 1074.  This year King William went over sea to Normandy; and child Edgar came from Flanders
into Scotland on St. Grimbald's mass-day; where King Malcolm and his sister Margaret received
him with much pomp.  At the same time sent Philip, the King of France, a letter to him, bidding
him to come to him, and he would give him the castle of Montreuil; that he might afterwards
daily annoy his enemies.  What then?  King Malcolm and his sister Margaret gave him and his
men great presents, and many treasures; in skins ornamented with purple, in pelisses made of
martin-skins, of grey-skins, and of ermine-skins, in palls, and in vessels of gold and silver;
and conducted him and his crew with great pomp from his territory.  But in their voyage evil
befel them; for when they were out at sea, there came upon them such rough weather, and the
stormy sea and the strong wind drove them so violently on the shore, that all their ships burst,
and they also themselves came with difficulty to the land.  Their treasure was nearly all lost,
and some of his men also were taken by the French; but he himself and his best men returned
again to Scotland, some roughly travelling on foot, and some miserably mounted.  Then King
Malcolm advised him to send to King William over sea, to request his friendship, which he did;
and the king gave it him, and sent after him.  Again, therefore, King Malcolm and his sister
gave him and all his men numberless treasures, and again conducted him very magnificently from
their territory.  The sheriff of York came to meet him at Durham, and went all the way with
him; ordering meat and fodder to be found for him at every castle to which they came, until
they came over sea to the king. Then King William received him with much pomp; and he was there
afterwards in his court, enjoying such rights as he confirmed to him by law.

A.D. 1075.  This year King William gave Earl Ralph the daughter
of William Fitz-Osborne to wife.  This same Ralph was British on
his mother's side; but his father, whose name was also Ralph, was
English; and born in Norfolk.  The king therefore gave his son
the earldom of Norfolk and Suffolk; and he then led the bride to
Norwich.
          There was that bride-ale
          The source of man's bale.
There was Earl Roger, and Earl Waltheof, and bishops, and abbots;
who there resolved, that they would drive the king out of the
realm of England.  But it was soon told the king in Normandy how
it was determined.  It was Earl Roger and Earl Ralph who were the
authors of that plot; and who enticed the Britons to them, and
sent eastward to Denmark after a fleet to assist them.  Roger
went westward to his earldom, and collected his people there, to
the king's annoyance, as he thought; but it was to the great
disadvantage of himself.  He was however prevented.  Ralph also
in his earldom would go forth with his people; but the castlemen
that were in England and also the people of the land, came
against him, and prevented him from doing anything.  He escaped
however to the ships at Norwich. (97)  And his wife was in the
castle; which she held until peace was made with her; when she
went out of England, with all her men who wished to join her.
The king afterwards came to England, and seized Earl Roger, his
relative, and put him in prison.  And Earl Waltheof went over
sea, and bewrayed himself; but he asked forgiveness, and
proffered gifts of ransom.  The king, however, let him off
lightly, until he (98) came to England; when he had him seized.
Soon after that came east from Denmark two hundred ships; wherein
were two captains, Cnute Swainson, and Earl Hacco; but they durst
not maintain a fight with King William.  They went rather to
York, and broke into St. Peter's minster, and took therein much
treasure, and so went away.  They made for Flanders over sea; but
they all perished who were privy to that design; that was, the
son of Earl Hacco, and many others with him.  This year died the
Lady Edgitha, who was the relict of King Edward, seven nights
before Christmas, at Winchester; and the king caused her to be
brought to Westminster with great pomp; and he laid her with King
Edward, her lord.  And the king was then at Westminster, at
midwinter; where all the Britons were condemned who were at the
bride-ale at Norwich.  Some were punished with blindness; some
were driven from the land; and some were towed to Scandinavia.
So were the traitors of King William subdued.

A.D. 1076.  This year died Sweyne, King of Denmark; and Harold his son took to the kingdom.
And the king gave the abbacy of Westminster to Abbot Vitalis, who had been Abbot of Bernay.
This year also was Earl Waltheof beheaded at Winchester, on the mass-day of St. Petronilla;
(99) and his body was carried to Croyland, where he lies buried.  King William now went over
sea, and led his army to Brittany, and beset the castle of Dol; but the Bretons defended it,
until the king came from France; whereupon William departed thence, having lost there both
men and horses, and many of his treasures.

A.D. 1077.  This year were reconciled the king of the Franks and William, King of England.
But it continued only a little while. This year was London burned, one night before the Assumption
of St. Mary, so terribly as it never was before, since it was built. This year the moon was
eclipsed three nights before Candlemas; and in the same year died Aylwy, the prudent Abbot
of Evesham, on the fourteenth day before the calends of March, on the mass-day of St. Juliana;
and Walter was appointed abbot in his stead; and Bishop Herman also died, on the tenth day
before the calends of March, who was Bishop in Berkshire, and in Wiltshire, and in Dorsetshire.
This year also King Malcolm won the mother of Malslaythe.... and all his best men, and all
his treasures, and his cattle; and he himself not easily escaped.... This year also was the
dry summer; and wild fire came upon many shires, and burned many towns; and also many cities
were ruined thereby.

A.D. 1079.  This year Robert, the son of King William, deserted from his father to his uncle
Robert in Flanders; because his father would not let him govern his earldom in Normandy; which
he himself, and also King Philip with his permission, had given him. The best men that were
in the land also had sworn oaths of allegiance to him, and taken him for their lord.  This
year, therefore, Robert fought with his father, without Normandy, by a castle called Gerberoy;
and wounded him in the hand; and his horse, that he sat upon, was killed under him; and he
that brought him another was killed there right with a dart.  That was Tookie Wiggodson.  Many
were there slain, and also taken.  His son William too was there wounded; but Robert returned
to Flanders.  We will not here, however, record any more injury that he did his father.  This
year came King Malcolm from Scotland into England, betwixt the two festivals of St. Mary, with
a large army, which plundered Northumberland till it came to the Tine, and slew many hundreds
of men, and carried home much coin, and treasure, and men in captivity.

A.D. 1080.  This year was Bishop Walker slain in Durham, at a council; and an hundred men with
him, French and Flemish.  He himself was born in Lorrain.  This did the Northumbrians in the
month of May. (100)

A.D. 1081.  This year the king led an army into Wales, and there freed many hundreds of men.

A.D. 1082.  This year the king seized Bishop Odo; and this year also was a great famine.

A.D. 1083.  This year arose the tumult at Glastonbury betwixt the Abbot Thurstan and his monks.
It proceeded first from the abbot's want of wisdom, that he misgoverned his monks in many things.
But the monks meant well to him; and told him that he should govern them rightly, and love
them, and they would be faithful and obedient to him.  The abbot, however, would hear nothing
of this; but evil entreated them, and threatened them worse.  One day the abbot went into the
chapter-house, and spoke against the monks, and attempted to mislead them; (101) and sent after
some laymen, and they came full-armed into the chapter-house upon the monks.  Then were the
monks very much afraid (102) of them, and wist not what they were to do, but they shot forward,
and some ran into the church, and locked the doors after them.  But they followed them into
the minster, and resolved to drag them out, so that they durst not go out.  A rueful thing
happened on that day.  The Frenchmen broke into the choir, and hurled their weapons toward
the altar, where the monks were; and some of the knights went upon the upper floor, (103) and
shot their arrows downward incessantly toward the sanctuary; so that on the crucifix that stood
above the altar they stuck many arrows.  And the wretched monks lay about the altar, and some
crept under, and earnestly called upon God, imploring his mercy, since they could not obtain
any at the hands of men.  What can we say, but that they continued to shoot their arrows; whilst
the others broke down the doors, and came in, and slew (104) some of the monks to death, and
wounded many therein; so that the blood came from the altar upon the steps, and from the steps
on the floor.  Three there were slain to death, and eighteen wounded. And in this same year
departed Matilda, queen of King William, on the day after All-Hallow-mass.  And in the same
year also, after mid-winter, the king ordained a large and heavy contribution (105) over all
England; that was, upon each hide of land, two and seventy pence.

A.D. 1084.  In this year died Wulfwold, Abbot of Chertsey, on the thirteenth day before the
calends of May.

A.D. 1085.  In this year men reported, and of a truth asserted, that Cnute, King of Denmark,
son of King Sweyne, was coming hitherward, and was resolved to win this land, with the assistance
of Robert, Earl of Flanders; (106) for Cnute had Robert's daughter.  When William, King of
England, who was then resident in Normandy (for he had both England and Normandy), understood
this, he went into England with so large an army of horse and foot, from France and Brittany,
as never before sought this land; so that men wondered how this land could feed all that force.
But the king left the army to shift for themselves through all this land amongst his subjects,
who fed them, each according to his quota of land.  Men suffered much distress this year; and
the king caused the land to be laid waste about the sea coast; that, if his foes came up, they
might not have anything on which they could very readily seize.  But when the king understood
of a truth that his foes were impeded, and could not further their expedition, (107) then let
he some of the army go to their own land; but some he held in this land over the winter. Then,
at the midwinter, was the king in Glocester with his council, and held there his court five
days.  And afterwards the archbishop and clergy had a synod three days.  There was Mauritius
chosen Bishop of London, William of Norfolk, and Robert of Cheshire.  These were all the king's
clerks.  After this had the king a large meeting, and very deep consultation with his council,
about this land; how it was occupied, and by what sort of men.  Then sent he his men over all
England into each shire; commissioning them to find out "How many hundreds of hides were in
the shire, what land the king himself had, and what stock upon the land; or, what dues he ought
to have by the year from the shire."  Also he commissioned them to record in writing, "How
much land his archbishops had, and his diocesan bishops, and his abbots, and his earls;" and
though I may be prolix and tedious, "What, or how much, each man had, who was an occupier of
land in England, either in land or in stock, and how much money it were worth."  And all the
recorded particulars were afterwards brought to him. (109)

A.D. 1086.  This year the king bare his crown, and held his court, in Winchester at Easter;
and he so arranged, that he was by the Pentecost at Westminster, and dubbed his son Henry a
knight there.  Afterwards he moved about so that he came by Lammas to Sarum; where he was met
by his councillors; and all the landsmen that were of any account over all England became this
man's vassals as they were; and they all bowed themselves before him, and became his men, and
swore him oaths of allegiance that they would against all other men be faithful to him.  Thence
he proceeded into the Isle of Wight; because he wished to go into Normandy, and so he afterwards
did; though he first did according to his custom; he collected a very large sum from his people,
wherever he could make any demand, whether with justice or otherwise.  Then he went into Normandy;
and Edgar Etheling, the relation of King Edward, revolted from him, for he received not much
honour from him; but may the Almighty God give him honour hereafter.  And Christina, the sister
of the etheling, went into the monastery of Rumsey, and received the holy veil.  And the same
year there was a very heavy season, and a swinkful and sorrowful year in England, in murrain
of cattle, and corn and fruits were at a stand, and so much untowardness in the weather, as
a man may not easily think; so tremendous was the thunder and lightning, that it killed many
men; and it continually grew worse and worse with men.  May God Almighty better it whenever
it be his will.

A.D. 1087.  After the birth of our Lord and Saviour Christ, one thousand and eighty-seven winters;
in the one and twentieth year after William began to govern and direct England, as God granted
him, was a very heavy and pestilent season in this land.  Such a sickness came on men, that
full nigh every other man was in the worst disorder, that is, in the diarrhoea; and that so
dreadfully, that many men died in the disorder.  Afterwards came, through the badness of the
weather as we before mentioned, so great a famine over all England, that many hundreds of men
died a miserable death through hunger.  Alas!  how wretched and how rueful a time was there!
When the poor wretches lay full nigh driven to death prematurely, and afterwards came sharp
hunger, and dispatched them withall!  Who will not be penetrated with grief at such a season?
or who is so hardhearted as not to weep at such misfortune?  Yet such things happen for folks'
sins, that they will not love God and righteousness.  So it was in those days, that little
righteousness was in this land with any men but with the monks alone, wherever they fared well.
The king and the head men loved much, and overmuch, covetousness in gold and in silver; and
recked not how sinfully it was got, provided it came to them.  The king let his land at as
high a rate as he possibly could; then came some other person, and bade more than the former
one gave, and the king let it to the men that bade him more. Then came the third, and bade
yet more; and the king let it to hand to the men that bade him most of all: and he recked not
how very sinfully the stewards got it of wretched men, nor how many unlawful deeds they did;
but the more men spake about right law, the more unlawfully they acted.  They erected unjust
tolls, and many other unjust things they did, that are difficult to reckon. Also in the same
year, before harvest, the holy minster of St. Paul, the episcopal see in London, was completely
burned, with many other minsters, and the greatest part, and the richest of the whole city.
So also, about the same time, full nigh each head-port in all England was entirely burned.
Alas!  rueful and woeful was the fate of the year that brought forth so many misfortunes. 
In the same year also, before the Assumption of St. Mary, King William went from Normandy into
France with an army, and made war upon his own lord Philip, the king, and slew many of his
men, and burned the town of Mante, and all the holy minsters that were in the town; and two
holy men that served God, leading the life of anachorets, were burned therein.  This being
thus done, King William returned to Normandy.  Rueful was the thing he did; but a more rueful
him befel.  How more rueful?  He fell sick, and it dreadfully ailed him.  What shall I say?
Sharp death, that passes by neither rich men nor poor, seized him also. He died in Normandy,
on the next day after the Nativity of St. Mary, and he was buried at Caen in St. Stephen's
minster, which he had formerly reared, and afterwards endowed with manifold gifts.  Alas! 
how false and how uncertain is this world's weal! He that was before a rich king, and lord
of many lands, had not then of all his land more than a space of seven feet!  and he that was
whilom enshrouded in gold and gems, lay there covered with mould!  He left behind him three
sons; the eldest, called Robert, who was earl in Normandy after him; the second, called William,
who wore the crown after him in England; and the third, called Henry, to whom his father bequeathed
immense treasure.  If any person wishes to know what kind of man he was, or what honour he
had, or of how many lands he was lord, then will we write about him as well as we understand
him: we who often looked upon him, and lived sometime in his court.  On that same spot where
God granted him that he should gain England, he reared a mighty minster, and set monks therein,
and well endowed it.  In his days was the great monastery in Canterbury built, and also very
many others over all England.  This land was moreover well filled with monks, who modelled
their lives after the rule of St. Benedict.  But such was the state of Christianity in his
time, that each man followed what belonged to his profession--he that would.  He was also very
dignified.  Thrice he bare his crown each year, as oft as he was in England.  At Easter he
bare it in Winchester, at Pentecost in Westminster, at midwinter in Glocester.  And then were
with him all the rich men over all England; archbishops and diocesan bishops, abbots and earls,
thanes and knights.  At length he spared not his own brother Odo, who was a very rich bishop
in Normandy.  At Baieux was his episcopal stall; and he was the foremost man of all to aggrandise
the king.  He had an earldom in England; and when the king was in Normandy, then was he the
mightiest man in this land.  Him he confined in prison.  But amongst other things is not to
be forgotten that good peace that he made in this land; so that a man of any account might
go over his kingdom unhurt with his bosom full of gold.  No man durst slay another, had he
never so much evil done to the other; and if any churl lay with a woman against her will, he
soon lost the limb that he played with.  He truly reigned over England; and by his capacity
so thoroughly surveyed it, that there was not a hide of land in England that he wist not who
had it, or what it was worth, and afterwards set it down in his book. (110)  The land of the
Britons was in his power; and he wrought castles therein; and ruled Anglesey withal.  So also
he subdued Scotland by his great strength.  As to Normandy, that was his native land; but he
reigned also over the earldom called Maine; and if he might have yet lived two years more,
he would have won Ireland by his valour, and without any weapons.  Assuredly in his time had
men much distress, and very many sorrows.  Castles he let men build, and miserably swink the
poor.  The king himself was so very rigid; and extorted from his subjects many marks of gold,
and many hundred pounds of silver; which he took of his people, for little need, by right and
by unright.  He was fallen into covetousness, and greediness he loved withal.  He made many
deer-parks; and he established laws therewith; so that whosoever slew a hart, or a hind, should
be deprived of his eyesight.  As he forbade men to kill the harts, so also the boars; and he
loved the tall deer as if he were their father.  Likewise he decreed by the hares, that they
should go free.  His rich men bemoaned it, and the poor men shuddered at it.  But he was so
stern, that he recked not the hatred of them all; for they must follow withal the king's will,
if they would live, or have land, or possessions, or even his peace.  Alas!  that any man should
presume so to puff himself up, and boast o'er all men.  May the Almighty God show mercy to
his soul, and grant him forgiveness of his sins!  These things have we written concerning him,
both good and evil; that men may choose the good after their goodness, and flee from the evil
withal, and go in the way that leadeth us to the kingdom of heaven.  Many things may we write
that were done in this same year.  So it was in Denmark, that the Danes, a nation that was
formerly accounted the truest of all, were turned aside to the greatest untruth, and to the
greatest treachery that ever could be.  They chose and bowed to King Cnute, and swore him oaths,
and afterwards dastardly slew him in a church.  It happened also in Spain, that the heathens
went and made inroads upon the Christians, and reduced much of the country to their dominion.
But the king of the Christians, Alphonzo by name, sent everywhere into each land, and desired
assistance.  And they came to his support from every land that was Christian; and they went
and slew or drove away all the heathen folk, and won their land again, through God's assistance.
In this land also, in the same year, died many rich men; Stigand, Bishop of Chichester, and
the Abbot of St. Augustine, and the Abbot of Bath, and the Abbot of Pershore, and the lord
of them all, William, King of England, that we spoke of before.  After his death his son, called
William also as the father, took to the kingdom, and was blessed to king by Archbishop Landfranc
at Westminster three days ere Michaelmas day.  And all the men in England submitted to him,
and swore oaths to him.  This being thus done, the king went to Winchester, and opened the
treasure house, and the treasures that his father had gathered, in gold, and in silver, and
in vases, and in palls, and in gems, and in many other valuable things that are difficult to
enumerate.  Then the king did as his father bade him ere he was dead; he there distributed
treasures for his father's soul to each monastery that was in England; to some ten marks of
gold, to some six, to each upland (111) church sixty pence.  And into each shire were sent
a hundred pounds of money to distribute amongst poor men for his soul.  And ere he departed,
he bade that they should release all the men that were in prison under his power. And the king
was on the midwinter in London.

A.D. 1088.  In this year was this land much stirred, and filled with great treachery; so that
the richest Frenchmen that were in this land would betray their lord the king, and would have
his brother Robert king, who was earl in Normandy.  In this design was engaged first Bishop
Odo, and Bishop Gosfrith, and William, Bishop of Durham.  So well did the king by the bishop
[Odo] that all England fared according to his counsel, and as he would.  And the bishop thought
to do by him as Judas Iscariot did by our Lord.  And Earl Roger was also of this faction; and
much people was with him all Frenchmen.  This conspiracy was formed in Lent. As soon as Easter
came, then went they forth, and harrowed, and burned, and wasted the king's farms; and they
despoiled the lands of all the men that were in the king's service.  And they each of them
went to his castle, and manned it, and provisioned it as well as they could.  Bishop Gosfrith,
and Robert the peace-breaker, went to Bristol, and plundered it, and brought the spoil to the
castle.  Afterwards they went out of the castle, and plundered Bath, and all the land thereabout;
and all the honor (112) of Berkeley they laid waste.  And the men that eldest were of Hereford,
and all the shire forthwith, and the men of Shropshire, with much people of Wales, came and
plundered and burned in Worcestershire, until they came to the city itself, which it was their
design to set on fire, and then to rifle the minster, and win the king's castle to their hands.
The worthy Bishop Wulfstan, seeing these things, was much agitated in his mind, because to
him was betaken the custody of the castle. Nevertheless his hired men went out of the castle
with few attendants, and, through God's mercy and the bishop's merits, slew or took five hundred
men, and put all the others to flight. The Bishop of Durham did all the harm that he could
over all by the north.  Roger was the name of one of them; (113) who leaped into the castle
at Norwich, and did yet the worst of all over all that land.  Hugh also was one, who did nothing
better either in Leicestershire or in Northamptonshire.  The Bishop Odo being one, though of
the same family from which the king himself was descended, went into Kent to his earldom, and
greatly despoiled it; and having laid waste the lands of the king and of the archbishop withal,
he brought the booty into his castle at Rochester.  When the king understood all these things,
and what treachery they were employing against him, then was he in his mind much agitated.
He then sent after Englishmen, described to them his need, earnestly requested their support,
and promised them the best laws that ever before were in this land; each unright guild he forbade,
and restored to the men their woods and chaces.  But it stood no while.  The Englishmen however
went to the assistance of the king their lord.  They advanced toward Rochester, with a view
to get possession of the Bishop Odo; for they thought, if they had him who was at first the
head of the conspiracy, they might the better get possession of all the others.  They came
then to the castle at Tunbridge; and there were in the castle the knights of Bishop Odo, and
many others who were resolved to hold it against the king.  But the Englishmen advanced, and
broke into the castle, and the men that were therein agreed with the king.  The king with his
army went toward Rochester.  And they supposed that the bishop was therein; but it was made
known to the king that the bishop was gone to the castle at Pevensea.  And the king with his
army went after, and beset the castle about with a very large force full six weeks.  During
this time the Earl of Normandy, Robert, the king's brother, gathered a very considerable force,
and thought to win England with the support of those men that were in this land against the
king.  And he sent some of his men to this land, intending to come himself after.  But the
Englishmen that guarded the sea lighted upon some of the men, and slew them, and drowned more
than any man could tell.  When provisions afterwards failed those within the castle, they earnestly
besought peace, and gave themselves up to the king; and the bishop swore that he would depart
out of England, and no more come on this land, unless the king sent after him, and that he
would give up the castle at Rochester.  Just as the bishop was going with an intention to give
up the castle, and the king had sent his men with him, then arose the men that were in the
castle, and took the bishop and the king's men, and put them into prison.  In the castle were
some very good knights; Eustace the Young, and the three sons of Earl Roger, and all the best
born men that were in this land or in Normandy.  When the king understood this thing, then
went he after with the army that he had there, and sent over all England. and bade that each
man that was faithful should come to him, French and English, from sea-port and from upland.
Then came to him much people; and he went to Rochester, and beset the castle, until they that
were therein agreed, and gave up the castle.  The Bishop Odo with the men that were in the
castle went over sea, and the bishop thus abandoned the dignity that he had in this land. 
The king afterwards sent an army to Durham, and allowed it to beset the castle, and the bishop
agreed, and gave up the castle, and relinquished his bishopric, and went to Normandy. Many
Frenchmen also abandoned their lands, and went over sea; and the king gave their lands to the
men that were faithful to him.

A.D. 1089.  In this year the venerable father and favourer of monks, Archbishop Landfranc,
departed this life; but we hope that he is gone to the heavenly kingdom.  There was also over
all England much earth-stirring on the third day before the ides of August, and it was a very
late year in corn, and in every kind of fruits, so that many men reaped their corn about Martinmas,
and yet later.

A.D. 1090.  Indiction XIII.  These things thus done, just as we have already said above, by
the king, and by his brother and by this men, the king was considering how he might wreak his
vengeance on his brother Robert, harass him most, and win Normandy of him.  And indeed through
his craft, or through bribery, he got possession of the castle at St. Valeri, and the haven;
and so he got possession of that at Albemarle.  And therein he set his knights; and they did
harm to the land in harrowing and burning.  After this he got possession of more castles in
the land; and therein lodged his horsemen.  When the Earl of Normandy, Robert, understood that
his sworn men deceived him, and gave up their castles to do him harm, then sent he to his lord,
Philip, king of the Franks; and he came to Normandy with a large army, and the king and the
earl with an immense force beset the castle about, wherein were the men of the King of England.
But the King William of England sent to Philip, king of the Franks; and he for his love, or
for his great treasure, abandoned thus his subject the Earl Robert and his land; and returned
again to France, and let them so remain.  And in the midst of these things this land was much
oppressed by unlawful exactions and by many other misfortunes.

A.D. 1091.  In this year the King William held his court at Christmas in Westminster, and thereafter
at Candlemas he went, for the annoyance of his brother, out of England into Normandy. Whilst
he was there, their reconciliation took place, on the condition, that the earl put into his
hands Feschamp, and the earldom of Ou, and Cherbourg; and in addition to this, that the king's
men should be secure in the castles that they had won against the will of the earl.  And the
king in return promised him those many [castles] that their father had formerly won, and also
to reduce those that had revolted from the earl, also all that his father had there beyond,
except those that he had then given the king, and that all those, that in England before for
the earl had lost their land, should have it again by this treaty, and that the earl should
have in England just so much as was specified in this agreement.  And if the earl died without
a son by lawful wedlock, the king should be heir of all Normandy; and by virtue of this same
treaty, if the king died, the earl should be heir of all England.  To this treaty swore twelve
of the best men of the king's side, and twelve of the earl's, though it stood but a little
while afterwards.  In the midst of this treaty was Edgar Etheling deprived of the land that
the earl had before permitted him to keep in hand; and he went out of Normandy to the king,
his sister's husband, in Scotland, and to his sister.  Whilst the King William was out of England,
the King Malcolm of Scotland came hither into England, and overran a great deal of it, until
the good men that governed this land sent an army against him and repulsed him.  When the King
William in Normandy heard this, then prepared he his departure, and came to England, and his
brother, the Earl Robert, with him; and he soon issued an order to collect a force both naval
and military; but the naval force, ere it could come to Scotland, perished almost miserably,
a few days before St. Michael's mass.  And the king and his brother proceeded with the land-force;
but when the King Malcolm heard that they were resolved to seek him with an army, he went with
his force out of Scotland into Lothaine in England, and there abode.  When the King William
came near with his army, then interceded between them Earl Robert, and Edgar Etheling, and
so made the peace of the kings, that the King Malcolm came to our king, and did homage, (114)
promising all such obedience as he formerly paid to his father; and that he confirmed with
an oath. And the King William promised him in land and in all things whatever he formerly had
under his father.  In this settlement was also Edgar Etheling united with the king.  And the
kings then with much satisfaction departed; yet that stood but a little while.  And the Earl
Robert tarried here full nigh until Christmas with the king, and during this time found but
little of the truth of their agreement; and two days before that tide he took ship in the Isle
of Wight, and went into Normandy, and Edgar Etheling with him.

A.D. 1092.  In this year the King William with a large army went north to Carlisle, and restored
the town, and reared the castle, and drove out Dolphin that before governed the land, and set
his own men in the castle, and then returned hither southward.  And a vast number of rustic
people with wives and with cattle he sent thither, to dwell there in order to till the land.

A.D. 1093.  In this year, during Lent, was the King William at Glocester so sick, that he was
by all reported dead.  And in his illness he made many good promises to lead his own life aright;
to grant peace and protection to the churches of God, and never more again with fee to sell;
to have none but righteous laws amongst his people.  The archbishopric of Canterbury, that
before remained in his own hand, he transferred to Anselm, who was before Abbot of Bec; to
Robert his chancellor the bishopric of Lincoln; and to many minsters he gave land; but that
he afterwards took away, when he was better, and annulled all the good laws that he promised
us before.  Then after this sent the King of Scotland, and demanded the fulfilment of the treaty
that was promised him.  And the King William cited him to Glocester, and sent him hostages
to Scotland; and Edgar Etheling, afterwards, and the men returned, that brought him with great
dignity to the king.  But when he came to the king, he could not be considered worthy either
of our king's speech, or of the conditions that were formerly promised him.  For this reason
therefore they parted with great dissatisfaction, and the King Malcolm returned to Scotland.
And soon after he came home, he gathered his army, and came harrowing into England with more
hostility than behoved him; and Robert, the Earl of Northumberland, surrounded him unawares
with his men, and slew him.  Morel of Barnborough slew him, who was the earl's steward, and
a baptismal friend (115) of King Malcolm.  With him was also slain Edward his son; who after
him should have been king, if he had lived.  When the good Queen Margaret heard this--her most
beloved lord and son thus betrayed she was in her mind almost distracted to death.  She with
her priests went to church, and performed her rites, and prayed before God, that she might
give up the ghost.  And the Scots then chose (116) Dufenal to king, Malcolm's brother, and
drove out all the English that formerly were with the King Malcolm.  When Duncan, King Malcolm's
son, heard all that had thus taken place (he was then in the King William's court, because
his father had given him as a hostage to our king's father, and so he lived here afterwards),
he came to the king, and did such fealty as the king required at his hands; and so with his
permission went to Scotland, with all the support that he could get of English and French,
and deprived his uncle Dufenal of the kingdom, and was received as king.  But the Scots afterwards
gathered some force together, and slew full nigh all his men; and he himself with a few made
his escape. (117) Afterwards they were reconciled, on the condition that he never again brought
into the land English or French.

