We were within thirty feet of the ground when I made ever so slight a misstep and brought Peter
up short. The next moment he'd caught me up bodily in his right arm, and to steady myself I
let my arms slip about his neck. I held on there, tight, even after I knew what I was doing,
and let my cheek rest against the bristly side of his head as we went slowly down to the bottom
of the tower.

It wasn't necessary, my holding my arms about Peter's neck. It wasn't any more necessary than
it was for him to pick me up and carry me the rest of the way down. It wasn't true-to-the-line
fair play, even, when you come to think of it in cold blood, and it wasn't by any manner of
means just what sedately married ladies should do.

But, if the terrible truth must be told, it was nice. I think both our hearts were a little
hungry for the love which didn't happen to be coming our way, which the law of man and his
Maker alike prohibited. So we saved our dignity and our self-respect, oddly enough, by resorting
to the shallowest of subterfuges. And I don't care much if it wasn't true-to-the-line ethics.
I liked the feel of Peter's arm around me, holding me that way, and I hope he liked that long
and semi-respectable hug I gave him, and that now and then, later on, in the emptier days of
his life, he'll remember it pleasantly, and without a bit of bitterness in his heart.

For Alabama Ranch, of course, is going to lose Peter as soon as he can get away.

                     Tuesday the Twenty-fourth

Peter is no longer with us. He went yesterday, much to the open grief of an adoring and heart-broken
Struthers. I stood in the doorway as he drove off, pretending to mop my eyes with my hankie
and then making a show of wringing the brine out of it. He laughed at this bit of play-acting,
but it was rather a melancholy laugh. Struthers, however, was quite snappy for the rest of
the morning, having apparently construed my innocent pantomime as a burlesque of her tendency
to sniffle a little.

I never quite knew how much we'd miss Peter until he was gone, and gone for good. Even Dinkie
was strangely moody and downcast, and showed his depression by a waywardness of spirit which
reached its crowning misdemeanor by poking a bean into his ear.

This seemed a trivial enough incident, at first. But the heat and moisture of that little pocket
of flesh caused the bean to swell, and soon had Dinkie crying with pain. So I renewed my efforts
to get that bean out of the child's ear, for by this time he was really suffering. But I didn't
succeed. There was no way of getting behind it, or getting a hold on it. And poor Dinkie bawled
bitterly, ignorant of why this pain should be inflicted on him and outraged that his own mother
should add to it by probing about the already swollen side of his head.

I was, in fact, getting a bit panicky, and speculating on how long it would take to get Dinkie
in to Buckhorn and a doctor, when Struthers remembered about a pair of toilet tweezers she'd
once possessed herself of, for pulling out an over-punctual gray-hair or two. Even then I had
to resort to heroic measures, tying the screaming child's hands tight to his side with a bath-towel
and having the tremulous Struthers hold his poor little head flat against the kitchen table.

It was about as painful, I suppose, as extracting a tooth, but I finally got a grip on that
swollen legume and pulled it from its inflamed pocket of flesh. I felt as relieved and triumphant
as an obstetrician after a hard case, and meekly handed over to Dinkie anything his Royal Highness
desired, even to his fifth cookie and the entire contents of my sewing-basket, which under
ordinary circumstances is strictly taboo. But once the ear-passage was clear the pain went
away, and Dinkie, at the end of a couple of hours, was himself again.

