When our forces captured Little Rock in September, 1863, we obtained possession, among other
plunder, of quite a quantity of Confederate commissary stores. Among these was a copious supply
of "jerked beef." It consisted of narrow, thin strips of beef, which had been dried on scaffolds
in the sun, and it is no exaggeration to say that it was almost as hard and dry as a cottonwood
chip. Our manner of eating it was simply to cut off a chunk about as big as one of our elongated
musket balls, and proceed to "chaw." It was rather a comical sight to see us in our cabins
of a cold winter night, sitting by the fire, and all solemnly "chawing" away, in profound silence,
on the Johnnies' jerked beef. But, if sufficiently masticated, it was nutritious and healthful,
and we all liked it. I often thought it would have been a good thing if the government had
made this kind of beef a permanent and regular addition to our rations. As long as kept in
the dry, it would apparently keep indefinitely, and a piece big enough to last a soldier two
or three days would take up but little space in a haversack.

Passing from the topic of army rations, I will now take leave to say here, with sincerity and
emphasis, that the best school to fit me for the practical affairs of life that I ever attended
was in the old 61st Illinois during the Civil War. It would be too long a story to undertake
to tell all the benefits derived from that experience, but a few will be alluded to. In the
first place, when I was a boy at home, I was, to some extent, a "spoiled child." I was exceedingly
particular and "finicky" about my food. Fat meat I abhorred, and wouldn't touch it, and on
the other hand, when we had chicken to eat, the gizzard was claimed by me as my sole and exclusive
tid-bit, and "Leander" always got it. Let it be known that in the regiment those habits were
gotten over so soon that I was astonished myself. The army in time of war is no place for a
"sissy-boy;" it will make a man of him quicker, in my opinion, than any other sort of experience
he could undergo. And suffice it to say, on the food question, that my life as a soldier forever
cured me of being fastidious or fault-finding about what I had to eat. I have gone hungry too
many times to give way to such weakness when sitting down in a comfortable room to a table
provided with plenty that was good enough for any reasonable man. I have no patience with a
person who is addicted to complaining or growling about his food. Some years ago there was
an occasion when I took breakfast at a decent little hotel at a country way-station on a railroad
out in Kansas. It was an early breakfast, for the accommodation of guests who would leave on
an early morning train, and there were only two at the table,--a young traveling commercial
man and myself. The drummer ordered (with other things) a couple of fried eggs, and that fellow
sent the poor little dining room girl back with those eggs three times before he got them fitted
to the exact shade of taste to suit his exquisite palate. And he did this, too, in a manner
and words that were offensive and almost brutal. It was none of my business, so I kept my mouth
shut and said nothing, but I would have given a reasonable sum to have been the proprietor
of that hotel about five minutes. That fool would then have been ordered to get his grip and
leave the house,--and he would have left, too.

I do not know how it may have been with other regiments in the matter now to be mentioned,
but I presume it was substantially the same as in ours. And the course pursued with us had
a direct tendency to make one indifferent as to the precise cut of his clothes. It is true
that attention was paid to shoes, to that extent, at least, that the quartermaster tried to
give each man a pair that approximated to the number he wore. But coats, trousers, and the
other clothes were piled up in separate heaps, and each man was just thrown the first garment
on the top of the heap; he took it and walked away. If it was an outrageous fit, he would swap
with some one if possible, otherwise he got along as best he could. Now, in civil life, I have
frequently been amused in noting some dudish young fellow in a little country store trying
to fit himself out with a light summer coat, or something similar. He would put on the garment,
stand in front of a big looking glass, twist himself into all sorts of shapes so as to get
a view from every possible angle, then remove that one, and call for another. Finally, after
trying on about every coat in the house, he would leave without making a purchase, having found
nothing that suited the exact contour of his delicately moulded form. A very brief experience
in a regiment that had a gruff old quartermaster would take that tuck out of that Beau Brummell,
in short order.

Sometimes I have been, at a late hour on a stormy night, at a way-station on some "jerk-water"
railroad, waiting for a belated train, with others in the same predicament. And it was comical
to note the irritation of some of these fellows and the fuss they made about the train being
late. The railroad, and all the officers, would be condemned and abused in the most savage
terms on account of this little delay. And yet we were in a warm room, with benches to sit
on, with full stomachs, and physically just as comfortable as we possibly could be. The thought
would always occur to me, on such episodes, that if those kickers had to sit down in a dirt
road, in the mud, with a cold rain pelting down on them, and just endure all this until a broken
bridge in front was fixed up so that the artillery and wagon train could get along,--then a
few incidents of that kind would be a benefit to them. And instances like the foregoing might
be multiplied indefinitely. On the whole, life in the army in a time of war tended to develop
patience, contentment with the surroundings, and equanimity of temper and mind in general.
And, from the highest to the lowest, differing only in degree, it would bring out energy, prompt
decision, intelligent action, and all the latent force of character a man possessed.

I suppose, in reminiscences of this nature, one should give his impressions, or views, in relation
to that much talked about subject,--"Courage in battle." Now, in what I have to say on that
head, I can speak advisedly mainly for myself only. I think that the principal thing that held
me to the work was simply pride; and am of the opinion that it was the same thing with most
of the common soldiers. A prominent American functionary some years ago said something about
our people being "too proud to fight." With the soldiers of the Civil War it was exactly the
reverse,--they were "too proud to run";--unless it was manifest that the situation was hopeless,
and that for the time being nothing else could be done. And, in the latter case, when the whole
line goes back, there is no personal odium attaching to any one individual; they are all in
the same boat. The idea of the influence of pride is well illustrated by an old-time war story,
as follows: A soldier on the firing line happened to notice a terribly affrighted rabbit running
to the rear at the top of its speed. "Go it, cotton-tail!" yelled the soldier. "I'd run too
if I had no more reputation to lose than you have."

It is true that in the first stages of the war the fighting qualities of American soldiers
did not appear in altogether a favorable light. But at that time the fact is that the volunteer
armies on both sides were not much better than mere armed mobs, and without discipline or cohesion.
But those conditions didn't last long,--and there was never but one Bull Run.

Enoch Wallace was home on recruiting service some weeks in the fall of 1862, and when he rejoined
the regiment he told me something my father said in a conversation that occurred between the
two. They were talking about the war, battles, and topics of that sort, and in the course of
their talk Enoch told me that my father said that while he hoped his boy would come through
the war all right, yet he would rather "Leander should be killed dead, while standing up and
fighting like a man, than that he should run, and disgrace the family." I have no thought from
the nature of the conversation as told to me by Enoch that my father made this remark with
any intention of its being repeated to me. It was sudden and spontaneous, and just the way
the old backwoodsman felt. But I never forgot it, and it helped me several times. For, to be
perfectly frank about it, and tell the plain truth, I will set it down here that, so far as
I was concerned, away down in the bottom of my heart I just secretly dreaded a battle. But
we were soldiers, and it was our business to fight when the time came, so the only thing to
then do was to summon up our pride and resolution, and face the ordeal with all the fortitude
we could command. And while I admit the existence of this feeling of dread before the fight,
yet it is also true that when it was on, and one was in the thick of it, with the smell of
gun-powder permeating his whole system, then a signal change comes over a man. He is seized
with a furious desire to kill. There are his foes, right in plain view, give it to 'em, d----
'em!--and for the time being he becomes almost oblivious to the sense of danger.

And while it was only human nature to dread a battle,--and I think it would be mere affectation
to deny it, yet I also know that we common soldiers strongly felt that when fighting did break
loose close at hand, or within the general scope of our operations, then we ought to be in
it, with the others, and doing our part. That was what we were there for, and somehow a soldier
didn't feel just right for fighting to be going on all round him, or in his vicinity, and he
doing nothing but lying back somewhere, eating government rations. (Sherman's Memoirs, revised
edition, Vol. 2, p. 395.) But, I will further say, in this connection, that, in my opinion,
much depends, sometimes, especially at a critical moment, on the commander of the men who is
right on the ground, or close at hand. This is shown by the result attained by Gen. Milroy
in the incident I have previously mentioned. And, on a larger scale, the inspiring conduct
of Gen. Sheridan at the battle of Cedar Creek, Virginia, is probably the most striking example
in modern history of what a brave and resolute leader of men can accomplish under circumstances
when apparently all is lost. And, on the other hand, I think there is no doubt that the battle
of Wilson's Creek, Missouri, on August 10, 1861, was a Union victory up to the time of the
death of Gen. Lyon, and would have remained such if the officer who succeeded Lyon had possessed
the nerve of his fallen chief. But he didn't, and so he marched our troops off the field, retreated
from a beaten enemy, and hence Wilson's Creek figures in history as a Confederate victory.
(See "The Lyon Campaign," by Eugene F. Ware, pp. 324-339.) I have read somewhere this saying
of Bonaparte's: "An army of deer commanded by a lion is better than an army of lions commanded
by a deer." While that statement is only figurative in its nature, it is, however, a strong
epigrammatic expression of the fact that the commander of soldiers in battle should be, above
all other things, a forcible, determined, and brave man.

Soldiering at Franklin, Tennessee, in May, June, July, and August, 1865, was simply of a picnic
kind. The war was over in that region, and everything there was as quiet and peaceful as it
was at home in Illinois. Picket guards were dispensed with, and the only guard duty required
was a small detail for the colors at regimental headquarters, and a similar one over our commissary
stores. However, it was deemed necessary for the health of the men to maintain company drills
to a certain extent, but they were light and easy. Near the camp was a fine blue-grass pasture
field, containing in a scattered, irregular form numerous large and magnificent hard maples,
and the drilling was done in this field. Capt. Warren was somewhat portly, and not fond of
strenuous exercise anyhow, so all the drilling Co. D had at Franklin was conducted by myself.
But I rather liked it. With the accession of those 83rd Illinois men, the old company was about
as big and strong as it was at Camp Carrollton, and it looked fine. But, to tell the truth,
it is highly probable that we put in fully as much time lying on the blue grass under the shade
of those grand old maples as we did in company evolutions.

Sometime during the course of the summer a middle aged widow lady named House began conducting
a sort of private boarding establishment at her residence in the city, and Col. Nulton, Maj.
Keeley, and several of the line officers, including myself, took our meals at this place during
the remainder of our stay at Franklin. Among the boarders were two or three gentlemen also
of the name of House, and who were brothers-in-law of our hostess. They had all served in Forrest's
cavalry as commissioned officers, and were courteous and elegant gentlemen. We would all sit
down together at the table of Mrs. House, with that lady at the head, and talk and laugh, and
joke with each other, as if we had been comrades and friends all our lives. And yet, during
the four years just preceding, the Union and the Confederate soldiers thus mingled together
in friendship and amity had been doing their very best to kill one another! But in our conversation
we carefully avoided anything in the nature of political discussion about the war, and in general
each side refrained from saying anything on that subject which might grate on the feelings
of the other.

On September 4th, 1865, the regiment left Franklin and went by rail to Nashville for the purpose
of being mustered out of the service. There were some unavoidable delays connected with the
business, and it was not officially consummated until September 8th. In the forenoon of the
following day we left Nashville on the cars, on the Louisville and Nashville railroad, for
Springfield, Illinois, where we were to receive our final payment and certificates of discharge.

