THE LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

OF MAJOR-GENERAL SIR ISAAC BROCK, K.B.

INTERSPERSED WITH NOTICES OF THE CELEBRATED INDIAN CHIEF, TECUMSEH;

AND COMPRISING

BRIEF MEMOIRS OF DANIEL DE LISLE BROCK, ESQ.; LIEUTENANT E.W. TUPPER, R.N., AND COLONEL W.
DE VIC TUPPER,

    "What booteth it to have been rich alive?
    What to be great? What to be glorious?
    If after death no token doth survive
    Of former being in this mortal house,
    But sleeps in dust, dead and inglorious!"

                 SPENCER'S "Ruins of Time."

EDITED BY HIS NEPHEW,

FERDINAND BROCK TUPPER, ESQ.

    LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL & Co.
    GUERNSEY: H. REDSTONE.

    1845.

PREFACE.

In the early part of last year, a box of manuscripts and the trunks belonging to Sir Isaac
Brock, which had remained locked and unexamined for nearly thirty years, were at length opened,
as the general's last surviving brother, Savery, in whose possession they had remained during
that period, was then, from disease of the brain, unconscious of passing events. With that
sensibility which shrinks from the sight of objects that remind us of a much-loved departed
relative or friend, he had allowed the contents to remain untouched; and when they saw the
light, the general's uniforms, including the one in which he fell, were much moth-eaten, but
the manuscripts were happily uninjured. On the return of the Editor from South America in May
last, he for the first time learnt the existence of these effects; and a few weeks after, having
hastily perused and assorted the letters and other papers, he decided on their publication.
Whether this decision was wise, the reader must determine. If, on the one hand, part of their
interest be lost in the lapse of years; on the other, they, and the comments they have elicited,
can now be published with less risk of wounding private feelings.

It has been the Editor's study to avoid all unnecessary remarks on the letters in this volume,
so as to allow the writers to speak for themselves. But he has deemed it a sacred obligation
due to the memory of Sir Isaac Brock, to withhold nothing descriptive of his energetic views
and intentions, and of the obstacles he experienced in the vigorous prosecution of the contest--obstacles
which his gallant spirit could not brook, and which necessarily exposed "his valuable life"
much more than it would have been in offensive operations.[1] He regrets, however, that in
the performance of this duty, he must necessarily give pain to the relatives of the late Sir
George Prevost, of whose military government in Canada he would much rather have written in
praise than in censure.

Brief memoirs are inserted, at the conclusion of the Appendix, of one of Sir Isaac Brock's
brothers, the bailiff or chief magistrate of Guernsey, and of two of their nephews, Lieutenant
E.W. Tupper, R.N., and Colonel W. De Vic Tupper, of the Chilian service. The premature fate
of these two promising young officers is, to those who knew them best, still a source of unceasing
regret and of embittering remembrance.

The notices of the celebrated Tecumseh interspersed throughout the volume, and the connected
sketch of him near its close, can scarcely fail to interest the reader; that sketch is drawn
from various and apparently authentic sources, and the Editor believes that it is more copious
than any which has yet appeared of this distinguished Indian chief. A perusal will perhaps
awaken sympathy in behalf of a much-injured people; it may also tend to remove the films of
national prejudice, and prove that virtue and courage are not confined to any particular station
or country, but that they may exist as well in the wilds of the forest, as in the cultivated
regions of civilization.

GUERNSEY, January 15, 1845.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: See pages 275-280, 298, 304, 305, 315-317.]

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

    Parentage and birth--Boyhood--Enters the King's
    Regiment--Trait of determination of character--Becomes
    Lieutenant-Colonel of the 49th--Campaign in Holland, in
    1799--Russian troops in Guernsey--Battle of Copenhagen, in
    1801--Notice of John Savery Brock, Esq.

CHAPTER II.

    Proceeds to Canada with the 49th--Suppresses a mutiny at Fort
    George--Returns to Europe, and recommends the formation of a
    Veteran Battalion for Upper Canada--Re-embarks for Canada, and
    succeeds Colonel Bowes in command of the troops there--Letters
    to Lieut.-Colonel Gordon, Right Hon. W. Windham, the
    Adjutant-General, Mr. President Dunn, and to Lord
    Castlereagh--Arrival of Sir James Craig

CHAPTER III.

    Is made a Brigadier--Letters to his family--Proceeds to Upper
    Canada--Letters from Colonels Baynes and
    Thornton--Lieut.-Colonel Murray--Baroness de Rottenburg

CHAPTER IV.

    Letters to and from Lieut.-Governor Gore--from Colonels Kempt
    and Baynes--to Sir James Craig and Major Taylor--from Colonel
    Vesey--P. Carey Tupper, Esq.

CHAPTER V.

    Is made a Major-General--Sir James Craig returns to England;
    his character and administration--Letters from Major-General
    Vesey and Colonel Baynes--Duke of Manchester--Arrival of Sir
    George Prevost--Letters from Lieut.-General Drummond and
    Lieut.-Colonel Torrens--to and from Sir George Prevost

CHAPTER VI.

    Origin of the American war--Letters to and from Sir G. Prevost
    and Colonel Baynes--Meeting of the Legislature--Letter to
    Colonel Baynes relative to Detroit and Michilimakinack,
    &c.--Letters to Lieut.-Colonel Nichol--from Sir James
    Saumarez, Major-General Le Couteur, and Sir John Dumaresq

CHAPTER VII.

    Description of the boundaries, military posts, and lakes of
    Upper Canada--of the Michigan territory, Detroit, and
    Michilimakinack

CHAPTER VIII.

    War declared--Major-General Brock's proceedings--Force under
    his command--Letters from Colonel Baynes, and to and from Sir
    George Prevost--American newspaper.

CHAPTER IX.

    General Hull invades Upper Canada--His proclamation, and that
    of Major-General Brock in reply--Letters to Sir G. Prevost and
    from Sir T. Saumarez--Meeting of the Legislature--Critical
    state of the Province

CHAPTER X.

    Capture of Michilimakinack--Letters to and from Sir G.
    Prevost, from Colonels Baynes and Bruyeres

CHAPTER XI.

    Occurrences in the Western District--Tecumseh--Major-General
    Brock proceeds to Amherstburg--Voyage described--General
    Order--Indians, and notice of Tecumseh--Summons to General
    Hull, and his answer--Surrender of Detroit, and its
    consequences--Anecdotes of Tecumseh--Country about
    Detroit--Indian war in 1763.

CHAPTER XII.

    Letters relative to Detroit, to and from Sir G. Prevost, to
    Earl Bathurst, from W.D. Powell, Esq., Chief Justice Sewell,
    General Maitland, Major-General Burnet, from Major-General
    Brock to his brothers, and from Lieut.-Colonel Nichol--General
    Hull's reception at Montreal

CHAPTER XIII.

    Major-General Brock returus to the Niagara
    frontier--Armistice--Proposed attack on Sackett's Harbour
    prevented--Letters to and from Sir G. Prevost and
    Major-General Van Rensselaer--from Colonel Baynes--to Colonel
    Proctor and to J.S. Brock--Wrongs of the Indians, and speech
    of Tecumseh

CHAPTER XIV.

    Rival forces on the Niagara frontier--Capture of brigs Detroit
    and Caledonia--Letters to Sir G. Prevost and Colonel
    Proctor--Battle of Queenstown, and death of Sir Isaac Brock,
    with remarks on his funeral and character--Description of
    Queenstown Heights, &c

CHAPTER XV.

    Sir R. Sheaffe and armistice--Further remarks on Sir Isaac
    Brock--Americans obtain the command of Lake Ontario--Capture
    of York--Attack on Sackett's Harbour--Colonel Proctor's
    proceedings near Detroit--Defeat of British squadron on Lake
    Erie--Retreat and surrender of Major-General Proctor's
    army--Capture of Fort George, and surprise of the American
    troops at Stoney Creek--Attack on Michilimakinack--23 British
    deserters--Peace--Sir G. Prevost's death and
    character--Inscription on monument to--Colonel
    Tupper--Connected notice of Tecumseh

CHAPTER XVI.

    Servant--Letters from the Duke of York--J. Savery and Irving
    Brock, Esqrs. and Mrs. Eliot--Introduction of four Indian
    chiefs to George the Fourth, at Windsor--Destruction of
    Monument, and "gathering" on Queenstown Heights--Intended
    obelisk--Notice of Sir Isaac Brock's brothers, sisters, and
    nephews

APPENDIX A.

SECTION I.--BRITISH AUTHORS.

    1. Letter from Lord Aylmer--2. Dispatch from Captain
    Roberts--3. Extracts from Letters of Veritas--4. Sir G.
    Prevost's general order--5. Brief extracts from various
    authors--6. Council of condolence--7. Monument in St. Paul's
    cathedral--8. A Huron chief's surprise on seeing this
    monument--9. Address of the Commons of Upper Canada to the
    Prince Regent--10. Re-interment described--11. Dickens'
    American notes

SECTION II.--AMERICAN AUTHORS.

    1. Jefferson's correspondence--General Hull's revolutionary
    services--Letter from Captain Wool--Battle of
    Queenstown--Hull's army at Detroit

APPENDIX B.

    Daniel De lisle Brock, Esq

APPENDIX C.

    Lieutenant E. William Tupper, R.N.

APPENDIX D.

    Colonel W. De Vic Tupper, Chilian service

      *      *      *      *      *

CHAPTER I.

The Guernsey family of BROCK is probably of English origin, but we have been unable to ascertain
the period of its first establishment in the island. The parochial register of St. Peter-Port
extends only to the year 1563, soon after which time it contains the name of Philip Brock.
By "Robson's Armorial Bearings of the Nobility and Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland," eight
families of the name of Brock appear to bear different arms, one of which was borne by all
the Brocks of Guernsey--viz. azure, a fleur de lis or, on a chief argent a lion pass. guard.
gu.--crest, an escallop or[2]--until the death of Sir Isaac Brock, when new and honorary armorial
bearings were granted by the sovereign to his family. Brock is the ancient Saxon name for badger,
and as such is still retained in English dictionaries. Froissart,[3] in his Chronicles, makes
mention of Sir Hugh Brock, an English knight, keeper of the castle of Derval, in Brittany,
for his cousin Sir Robert Knolles, who was governor of all the duchy, and resided in Brest,
during the absence of the duke in England. The French overran Brittany at this period, and
leaving 2,000 men near Brest, so as to prevent its receiving succours, sat down with "great
engines" before the castle of Derval, to the siege of which came the constable of France, the
Duke of Bourbon, the Earls of Alençon and of Perche, and a great number of the barony and chivalry
of France. The castle being sore oppressed, Sir Hugh Brock was at length constrained to agree
to surrender it at the end of two months, if not relieved by that time. Sir Robert Knolles,
hearing this, also began to treat with the French; and while at the head of 30,000 men, he
was afterwards defeated by Bertrand du Guesclin. These events occurred in the reign of Edward
the Third, about the middle of the fourteenth century, when the English were driven out of
France; and as Guernsey is in the direct course between Brittany and England, may not one of
Sir Hugh Brock's family, on his passage across the Channel, have visited the island and settled
there?

