  Now youth has gone, and manhood come,
    Your Jubilee we keep,
  Good-will shall strike detraction dumb,
    And sound from deep to deep,
                  My Prince,
    From white-cliff'd deep to deep!

[Footnote A: See Cartoon, "Every Inch a Sailor," p. 129, Vol. XI., Sept. 26, 1846.]

[Footnote B: See Cartoon. "Suspense," p. 263, Vol. LXI., Dec. 23, 1871.]

       *       *       *       *       *

AN APPARENTLY HARD CASE.--Miss Print is responsible for a great deal. The other day a tender-hearted
person read in a daily paper, that a stranger "arriving in Paris, did not even know where to
go and die." How sad! But the compositor had only omitted the "n" from the last word of the
sentence. So it wasn't so bad after all, though for the stranger bad enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Music's the Food."--At the Savoy Hotel the band of Herr WURMS is advertised to perform during
dinner. The name of the dinner might follow suit, and be entitled "The Diet of Wurms, for Gentle
and Simple." Of course the band of Herr WURMS is an attraction; "Wurms for bait," eh?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IO TRIUMPHE!

OR, GREEK FOR HEIFER!

(By an Old Boy.)

  Thee, Camus, reverend renown
    Thy grateful votaries seek,
  Foil'd are the Vandals who'd "send down"
    The Genius of Greek.

  For Culture's jewell'd master-key
    They cupboard pick-locks tend,
  And in the cult of Mammon see
    Learning's true aim and end;

  Pit shallow youth's impatient fuss
    Against the grit of CATO,
  Set IBSEN up for ÆSCHYLUS,
    And OLLENDORFF for PLATO;

  For songs august of heroes sung,
    And epic hosts embattled,
  Enforce some pidgin-Latin tongue
    By every waiter prattled;

  For nymphs, where o'er the fragrant pines
    A sea-bright sun uprises,
  Their fancy plays round primmest lines
    Of prigs receiving prizes.

  From Sir JOHN CHEKE to Dr. JEBB,
    From CALVERLEY to MILTON,
  Clear spirits burst the Sophist-web,
    And rent the rook they built on.

  WELLDON is falsely named in this,
    For sure, in slighting Greek, he
  Will Learning's final blessing miss,
    Her [Greek: kalôs pepoiêke].

  What though the urchin deem it "rot"
    (Such hasty views we stoop'd to,
  Not seeing how on earth they got
    Tetummenos from Tupto)

  Still let us learn, not beastly facts,
    The field of any booby,
  But how thought acts and interacts,
    And contraries can true be.

  Though on oblivion's barren shores
    He give it quick sepulture,
  Still through reluctant passman's pores
    Instil the dew of culture.

  Still give us of the rills divine
    That flow from haunted Helicon,
  Nor rend thyself to feed the swine,
    Like a perverted Pelican.

  Keep far the time when every bee
    That booms in every bonnet,
  Shall find a chair of Apiary,
    And drone long lectures on it.

  Still the large light and sweetness seek
    Of KEATS'S raptured vision,
  (Or KEATE'S)--till Greek at last meets Greek
    In brotherhood Elysian.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW TREASURE FOR. THE TREASURER OF BARTHOLOMEW'S.--Mr. Punch, G.P.E., General President of
Everything, begs to congratulate Professor HUBERT HERKOMER, R.A.M.A., on his admirable portrait
of Sir SYDNEY HEDLEY, and now, not only HEDLEY, but Full-Lengthly WATERLOW, Bart., of "Bart's,"
which H.R.H. correctly described as "a very fine work of Art, painted by one of our most eminent
artists." Such approbation of Sir HUBERT HERKOMER is praise indeed! Mr. Punch, G.P.E., prefixes
the "Sir" prophetically. For the present it may be taken as the last syllable, detached, of
"Profes-sir"

       *       *       *       *       *

"WELLS, I NEVER!"--"Mr. WELLS," says the Times Correspondent, "has made 250,000 francs" (up
to now), and "last year he made £20,000." Talk of the waters at various drinking or health-resorts
abroad, why, their fame is as nothing compared with the unprecedented success of the WELLS
of Monte Carlo. How the other chaps who lose must be like LEECH'S old gent "a cussin' and a
swearin' like hanythink." So the two extremes at Monte Carlo may be expressed by the name of
a well-known shopkeeping London firm, i.e., SWEARS AND WELLS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTHING LIKE LABOR.

(A Pleasant Prospect suggested by the evidence taken before the Royal Commission.)

And so the Un-employed rose from the ditch in which he had passed the night, and made for the
town. It was early morning, and he thought he could possibly get something to do at the baker's.

"Want to work?" cried the foreman. "Why, my good fellow, it is all over for the next two days.
The trade only allows four hours, so we begin at eight on one night, and carry it on until
four on the following morning. People get their loaves a little stale, but old bread is said
to be good for the digestion!"

So the Unemployed went on until he came to a half-built house. The workmen had left, but there
was still a watchman on the premises.

"Want to work! Why what are you thinking about! Why, our trade only allows two hours a day,
so we build a house by laying foundation-stones. It is rather slow, but very sure."

So the starving man continued his journey. He was unsuccessful at every trade centre. One industry
allowed its members to work only for three hours a day, another two, a third four, and so on.
There was only one exception to the rule, and this (so the doctor thinks) was caused by necessity.
The undertakers were fully employed twelve hours out of the twenty-four. Even the public-houses
were closed at noon. The workhouses and casual wards were never empty.

But being of a sanguine temperament, the Unemployed cheered his drooping spirits by murmuring,
"Better luck to-morrow!" Then he retired to his rather damp quarters in the country ditch!

       *       *       *       *       *

Literary Intelligence.

Airy opening of article by Mr. GINLEY SCORCHSAM, a rising young author. "Asked by Editor of
Magazin des Louvres to let him have a paper on Art as Applied to Drapery----"

Note by the Agonised Editor (who has been struggling with MS. for several hours). "And he did
let me have it, with a vengeance!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LIGHT CONDUCT IN HEAVENLY BODIES.

DEAR MR. EDITOR,

What on earth, or rather what in the starry Heavens' name is the meaning of this heading to
a paragraph in the Times of Tuesday, Nov. 3:--

    "APPARENT DUPLICITY OF JUPITER'S SATELLITE No. 1."

Except that the stars are given to wink, I have never before heard of the Heavenly Bodies being
accused, of immorality. It is true that the duplicity is said to be only "apparent" or alleged,
but this is doubtless due to the precaution of the scientist to escape an action for libel.
Flatterers have often been accused of this vice, and Satellites are not much better. A "Star"
on the stage might perhaps thus acknowledge the presence of a friend and admirer in the Stalls
or in the charmed Circle. But for a Heavenly Body to be guilty of duplicity, and above all
for a "Number One" Heavenly Body, is too much. No more will the simple lines

    "Twinkle, twinkle, little Star!"

be true. No; if "Jupiter's Satellite No. 1" takes to such light conduct, then shall we, have
to read

    "Wink, O wink, you little Star!"

Henceforth let astronomers be very careful what observations they make. To what a state of
things are we coming, when at night all the sublunary world is nodding, and the Stars above
are winking. If there's duplicity in a Satellite of Jupiter, how about Jupiter itself? Can
we henceforth put any trust in the Planets? Are they in league with deceitful soothsayers,
astrologers, and fortune-tellers? I cannot further pursue the painful subject. We owe a debt
of gratitude to the Times for exposing duplicity in the highest places. Imagine treachery in
Aurora Borealis! What an awful flirt she would be!! How she'd "wink the other eye!"

Yours, AN ASTRONOMER LOYAL.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM MASHONALAND.--Inspired by the success of ARTHUR B., of DE GORSTIBUS NON DISPUTANDUM, and
of Sir KETTLE-DRUMMOND WOLFF, our GRANDOLPH meditates a surprise return to his own native land
and to Parliamentary life. He announces his intention of changing his name, and will call himself
"Lord NIL DESPERANDUM CHURCHILL." Hail to the modern Coeur-de-Lion!"

       *       *       *       *       *

FINAL.--The Daily Chronicle says it does not regard Mr. GOSCHEN as one of the Puritans of finance.
Well, no, perhaps, GEORGE JOACHIM'S finance--like his manner--is rather Cavalier!

       *       *       *       *       *

ONLY FANCY!

MR. FARMER-ATKINSON, M.P., attending the American Methodist Conference, has been supplying
the United States with interesting illustrations of House of Commons manners. Incidentally
he observed that Primitive Methodists, members of which body were largely represented in his
audience, are "impostors." This led to some misunderstanding, and Mr. FARMER-ATKINSON, M.P.,
found it necessary to explain that he had used the term "simply in a Parliamentary sense."
We learn by special Zadkiel telegram that, on emerging from the Hall after the meeting, the
Rev. HERCULES EBENEZER (Omaha), bringing down his clenched fist on the crown of the hat of
Mr. FARMER-ATKINSON, M.P., altered its situation in a direction that temporarily obscured the
vision of the Hon. Member.

"What do you mean?" inquired Mr. FARMER-ATKINSON, M.P., struggling out of the wreck of his hat.

"I mean it in a purely Pickwickian sense," said the Rev. HERCULES EBENEZER (Omaha), with a
seraphic smile that disarmed controversy.

       *       *       *       *       *

The GERMAN EMPEROR has lately rearranged his scheme of work for weekdays. From six A.M. to
eight A.M. he gives lectures on Strategy and Tactics to Generals over forty years old. From
eight to ten he instructs the chief actors, musicians and painters of Berlin in the principles
of their respective arts. The hours from ten to twelve he devotes to the compilation of his
Memoirs in fifty-four volumes. A limited edition of large-paper copies is to be issued. From
twelve to four P.M. he reviews regiments, cashiers colonels, captures fortresses, carries his
own dispatches to himself, and makes speeches of varying length to all who will listen to him.
Any professional reporter found taking accurate notes of His Majesty's words is immediately
blown from a Krupp gun with the new smokeless powder. From four to eight he tries on uniforms,
dismisses Ministers and officials, dictates state-papers to General CAPRIVI, and composes his
history of "How I pricked the Bismarck Bubble." From eight to eleven P.M. His Majesty teaches
schoolmasters how to teach, wives how to attend to their families, bankers how to carry on
their business, and cooks how to prepare dinners. The rest of the day he devotes to himself.
On Thursday next His Majesty leaves Berlin on his tenth visit to the European Courts.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is no truth in the report that the Lord CHANCELLOR is arranging a Christmas party, to
which shall be invited all the members and connections of his family for whom he has found
places during his term of office. It is well known that the accommodation at Lord HALSBURY's
town residence is comparatively limited.

       *       *       *       *       *

