THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX. No. 540.] SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

BANKSIDE.--OLD THEATRES.

The ancient topography of the southern bank of the Thames (or Bankside) between London and
Blackfriars bridges is peculiarly interesting to the lover of dramatic lore, as well as to
the inquirer into the sports and pastimes of our ancestors. It appears to have been the Arcadia
of the olden metropolis, if such a term be applicable to a place notorious for the indulgence
of brutal sports.

The Cut in the adjoining column represents Bankside in 1648, from which it appears to have
been then in part waste and unenclosed. "It was land belonging to the crown, and on various
parts of it stood the Globe Theatre, the Bear Garden, and other places of public show; here
were also the Pike Gardens, some time called the Queen's Pike Gardens, with ponds for the preservation
of fresh-water fish, which were said to be kept for the supply of the royal table, under the
inspection of an officer, called the king's purveyor of pike, who had here a house for his
residence."[1] On the Bankside, prior to the above date, were also the ancient Bordello, or
Stews, which, according to Pennant, were distinguished by their respective signs painted against
the walls, one of which, in particular, was the Cardinal's Hat; and a small court, now or till
lately called Cardinal's Hat Court, still exists on the Bankside, and probably shows the precise
site of the mansion of depravity. In like manner we find on Bankside, Pike Garden, Globe Alley,
and in the vicinity a public-house with the sign of the Globe. On Bankside also stood an ancient
Hall and Palace of the Bishops of Winchester, stated to have been built by William Gifford,
Bishop of Winchester, about the year 1107, on a piece of ground belonging to the Prior of Bermondsey,
to whom was paid a yearly acknowledgment. The great court, at one time belonging to this palace,
is still known by the name of Winchester Square, and in the adjacent street was, some time
since, an abutment of one of the gates. Near this Palace, on the south, at one time stood the
Episcopal Palace of the Bishops of Rochester; which is supposed to have bequeathed its name
to Rochester Street. The whole of the Bank shown in the Cut is now densely populated, and scarcely
a pole of green sward is left to denote its ancient state. On the opposite or Middlesex bank
may be distinguished the celebrated Castle Baynard.

The second Cut represents the BULL and BEAR-BAITING THEATRES, as they appeared in their first
state, A.D. 1560. This spot was called Paris Garden, and the two theatres are said to have
been the first that were formed near London. One Sunday afternoon, in the year 1582, the scaffold,
being overcharged with spectators, fell down during the performance, and a great number of
persons were killed or maimed by the accident, which the puritans of the time failed not to
attribute to a Divine judgment. These theatres were patronized by royalty: for we read that
Queen Elizabeth, on the 26th of May, 1599, went by water with the French ambassadors to Paris
Garden, where they saw a baiting of bulls and bears. Indeed, Southwark seems to have long been
of sporting notoriety, for, in the Humorous Lovers, printed in 1617, one of the characters
says, "I'll set up my bills, that the gamesters of London, Horsly-down, Southwark, and Newmarket,
may come in and bait him (the bear,) here before the ladies, &c."[2]

The third Cut includes the GLOBE, ROSE, and BEAR-BAITING THEATRES, as they appeared about the
year 1612. Of the Globe we have been furnished with the following account by a zealous correspondent,
G.W.:

The Globe Theatre stood on a plot of ground, now occupied by four houses, contiguous to the
present Globe Alley, Maiden Lane, Southwark. This theatre was of considerable size. It is not
certain when it was built. Hentzner, the German traveller, who gives an amusing description
of London in the time of Queen Elizabeth, alludes to it as existing in 1598, but it was probably
not built long before 1596. It was an hexagonal, wooden building, partly open to the weather,
and partly thatched with reeds, on which, as well as other theatres, a pole was erected, to
which a flag was affixed. These flags were probably displayed only during the hours of performance;
and it should seem from one of the old comedies that they were taken down in Lent, in which
time, during the early part of King James's reign, plays were not allowed to be represented,
though at a subsequent period this prohibition was dispensed with by paying a fee to the Master
of the Revels.

It was called the Globe from its sign, which was a figure of Hercules, or Atlas, supporting
a globe, under which was written, Totus mundus agit histrionem, (All the world acts a play):--and
not as many have conjectured, that the Globe though hexagonal at the outside, was a rotunda
within, and that it might have derived its name from its circular form.

This theatre was burnt down June 29, 1613, but it was rebuilt with greater splendour in the
following year. The Cut represents the original theatre. The account of this accident is given
by Sir Henry Wotton, in a letter dated July 2, 1613.[3] "Now to let matters of state sleepe,
I will entertain you at the present with what happened this week at the Banks side.

In 1613, was entered in the Stationers' books, "A doleful ballad of the General Conflagration
of the famous Theatre called the Globe."

Taylor, the water poet, commemorates the event in the following lines:

  "As gold is better that in fire's tried,
    So is the Bankside Globe, that late was burn'd;
  For where before it had a thatched hide,
    Now to a stately theatre 'tis turn'd;
  Which is an emblem that great things are won;
    By those that dare through greatest dangers run."

It is also alluded to in some verses by Ben Jonson, entitled, "An Execration upon Vulcan,"
from which it appears that Ben Jonson was in the theatre when it was burnt.

This theatre was open in summer and the performances took place by daylight; the King's company
usually began to play in the month of May. The exhibitions appear to have been calculated for
the lower class of people, and to have been more frequent than those at the Blackfriars, till
1604 or 5, when it became less fashionable and frequented. Being contiguous to the Bear Garden,
it is probable that those who resorted there went to the theatre, when the bear-baiting sports
were over, and such persons were not likely to form a very refined audience.

We have no description of the interior of the Globe, but that it was somewhat similar to our
modern theatres, with an open space in the roof: or perhaps it more resembled an inn-yard,
where, in the beginning of Queen Elizabeth's reign, many of our ancient dramatic pieces were
performed. The galleries in both were arranged on three sides of the building; the small rooms
under the lowest, answered to our present boxes and were called rooms; the yard bears a sufficient
resemblance to the pit, as at present in use, and where the common people stood to see the
exhibition; from which circumstance they are called by Shakspeare "the groundlings," and by
Ben Jonson, "the understanding gentlemen of the ground." The stage was erected in the area,
with its back to the gateway where the admission money was taken. The price of admission into
the best rooms, or boxes, was in Shakspeare's time, a shilling, though afterwards it appears
to have risen to two shillings and half-a-crown. The galleries, or scaffolds, as they were
sometimes called, and that part of the house which in private theatres was named the pit, seem
to have been the same price, which was sixpence, while in some meaner playhouses it was only
a penny, and in others two-pence.

We learn from Sir Henry Hebert, that 20l. was the greatest receipt for one day's performance;
by that we may calculate upon the house having contained about 700 persons, at the prices before
stated; that is to say, 100 for the boxes, and the rest in the other parts of the house.

Part of the site of this theatre is now occupied by the brewery of Messrs. Barclay and Perkins;
and in the History of St. Saviour's, already quoted, we read that "the passage which led to
the Globe Tavern, of which the playhouse formed a part, was, till within these few years, known
by the name of Globe Alley, and upon its site now stands a large store-house for porter."

The Rose or smaller theatre, was erected in the year 1592, and is stated to have cost £103.
2s. 7d.--a sum which would scarcely pay half the expenses of a modern patent theatre for a
single night!

These theatres appear to have been cited as nuisances by the parish officers of St. Saviour's,
in which they stood; for in July, 1597-8, a resolution was agreed to by a vestry of the parish,
"that a petition shall be made to the bodye of the Councell, (Privy Council,) concerning the
play-houses in this parish; wherein all the enormities shall be showed that come thereby to
the parish, and that in respect thereof they may be dismissed, and put down from playing: and
that four, or two of the Churchwardens, &c. shall present the cause with a collector of the
Boroughside, and another of the Bankside." The presentation of this petition did not produce
the desired effect; for some time afterwards the play-houses not having been put down, the
Churchwardens of St. Saviour's, as appears from an entry in their Parish Register, endeavoured
to obtain tithes and poor-rates from the owners and managers of the theatres on the Bankside.[5]
This corresponds with the state of the English theatre, at this period, at the height of its
glory and reputation. Dramatic authors of the first excellence, and eminent actors equally
abounded; every year produced a number of new plays; nay, so great was the passion for show
or representation, that it was the fashion for the nobility to celebrate their weddings, birthdays,
and other occasions of rejoicing, with masques and interludes; the king, queen, and court frequently
performing in those represented in the royal palaces, and all the nobility being actors in
their old private houses. Alas!

  What's gone and what's past help
  Should be past grief.

Among the numerous memoranda of the topography of this interesting district, we find that the
well-known iron foundry of Messrs. Bradley, now occupies the site of a Bear-garden. The Falcon
public-house adjoining the foundry of that name, was once the most considerable inn in the
county of Surrey, the adjoining foundry being anciently a part of it: and it is said that very
near the Falcon was once a mill for the grinding of corn, for the Priory of St. Mary Overy.

To conclude. The accompanying Cuts are copied from one of a series of prints illustrative of
the antiquities of the metropolis, published by Messrs. Boydell, in the year 1818.

    [1] Hist. and Antiq. St. Saviour, Southwark, 1795.

    [2] The first we read of Bear-baiting in England, was in the
        reign of King John, at Ashby-de-la-Zouch, where "thyss
        straynge passtyme was introduced by some Italyans for his
        highness' amusement, wherewith he and his court were highly
        delighted."

    [3] Reliq. Wotton, p. 425. Edit. 1685

    [4] Winwood's Memorials, vol. iii. p. 469.

    [5] Annals of the Stage. By J.P. Collyer, Esq. F.S.A. Vol. I.

       *        *        *        *        *

LACONICS.

(For the Mirror.)

Amongst men of the world comfort merely signifies a great consideration for themselves, and
a perfect indifference about others.

Every one who gives way to thought, must, of necessity, become wiser every day; for either
the ideas that present themselves to his mind will confirm his yet rickety theories, or observation
will teach him that his previous views of things were ill-founded.

Party spirit is like gambling--a vast number of persons trouble themselves about what in the
end can be beneficial only to a few.

It is as difficult to win over an enthusiast by force of reasoning, as to persuade a lover
of his mistress's faults; or to convince a man who is at law of the badness of his cause.

Knowledge of the world is regarded as an useful, if not an elegant, accomplishment, but this
advantage, like every other good, is mixed with some alloy: the acute observer of men and manners
cannot but be disgusted with the scenes that take place around him, and his knowledge may at
last have the effect of souring his own disposition.

Talents, without the accompaniment of religion, are but fatal presents: they not only add strength
to the vices of the individual, but what is worse they render them more conspicuous to the world.

It is strange that the eye of man should have that magic power we have all felt that it possesses.
We can contemplate other bright and beautiful objects without withdrawing our gaze; and what
is there in the formation of an eye that should create in us any uneasiness? It is the consciousness
that the eye is the index of the mind--that when a man fixes his eye on us we are the subject
of his thoughts, and that a being gifted with a soul like ourselves is employing its energies
and setting its machinery at work about ourselves. It is this conviction that makes us modestly,
and almost involuntarily, shrink from such an inspection.

To put ourselves in a passion, in consequence of the misconduct of others, is unquestionably
very weak behaviour, but it has also something generous about it; for we are clearly annoying
and punishing ourselves, when the offenders only ought to have been the sufferers.

Meanness and conceit are frequently combined in the same character: for he who to obtain transient
applause can be indifferent to truth and his own dignity, will be as little scrupulous about
them if, by subserviency, he can improve his condition in the world.

The most trivial circumstances are able to put an end to our gratifications; they are like
beds of roses, where it is very unlikely all the leaves should be smooth, and even one that
is doubled suffices to make us uncomfortable.

Garrulous men are commonly conceited, and they will be found (with very few exceptions) to
be superficial as well. They who are in a hurry to tell what they do know, will be equally
inclined, from the impulse of prevailing habit, to tell what they do not know.

F.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGAL RHYMES.

(For the Mirror.)

According to Goguet, "the first laws of any people were composed in verses, which they sang;"
and why should it not be so when Apollo was one of the first of legislators? and under his
auspices they were published to the sound of the harp. Pittacus, one of the seven sages of
Greece, formed a code of laws in verse, that they might be the easier remembered. The ancient
laws of Spain also were chanted in verse, and the custom was preserved a long time among many
nations. Mio. Psellus, who lived in the reign of Constantine Ducas, published a synopsis of
the law, in verse, and in 1701, Gumaro, a civilian of Naples, taught the dry and intricate
system of civil law, in a novel. Coke's Reports have been "done into verse" by an anonymous
author; and Cowper, the poet, tells us, that a relation of his who had studied the law, "a
gentleman of sprightly parts," began to versify Coke's Institutes; he gives the following specimen
of the performance:

    "Tenant in fee
    Simple is he,
  And need neither quake nor quiver,
    Who hath his lands,
    Free from demands,
  To him and his heirs for ever."

Records, charters, and wills, and many other legal documents, have been written in verse. The
following grant was made by Edward the Confessor to Randolf Peperking:

  "Iche Edward konyng (king)
  Have given of my forest the keping,
  Of the Hundred of Cholmer and Daucing,
  To Randolph Peperking and to his kindling, (heirs)
  With heart and hynd, doe and bock, (buck)
  Hare and fox, cat and brock, (badger)
  Wild fowell and his flock,
  Partridge, fesant hen, and fesant cock,
  With green and wyld stob and stock,
  To kepen and to yemen (hold) by all his might,
  Both by day and eke by night:
  And hounds for to holde,
  Gode and swift and bolde,
  Four greyhounds and six beaches, (hound bitches)
  For hare and fox, and wild cats,
  And thereof Iche made him my booke,
  Witness the Bishop Wolston,
  And book ycleped many on,
  And Sweyne of Essex, our brother,
  And token him many other,
  And our steward Hamelyn,
  That bysought me for him."
  If to these conditions, without all fear,
  Of your own accord you will freely swear,
  A gammon of bacon you shall receive,
  And beare it hence with love and good leave,
  For this is our custom at Dunmow well known,
  Though the sport be ours, the bacon's your own."

For the custom of riding the black ram, and the penal rhyme thereto attached, we refer the
reader to the Spectator, No. 614.

The following rhyming wills have been proved in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury:

  "The fifth of May,
  Being airy and gay
  And to hip not inclined,
  But of vigorous mind,
  And my body in health.
  I'll dispose of my wealth,
  And all I'm to leave
  On this side the grave,
  To some one or other,
  And I think to my brother;
  Because I foresaw
  That my brethren in law,
  If I did not take care,
  Would come in for their share,
  Which I nowise intended,
  'Till their manners are mended,
  And of that God knows there's no sign.
  I do therefore enjoin,
  And do strictly command,
  Of which witness my hand,
  That naught I have got
  Be brought into hotchpot:
  But I give and devise,
  As much as in me lies,
  To the son of my mother,
  My own dear brother.
  And to have and to hold
  All my silver and gold,
  As th' affectionate pledges
  Of his brother, JOHN HEDGES."

In the next, the items are more curious and particular:

  "What I am going to bequeath
  When this frail part submits to death--
  But still I hope the spark divine,
  With its congenial stars shall shine,
  My good executors fulfill,
  And pay ye fairly my last will,
  With first and second codicil.
  And first I give to dear Lord Hinton,
  At Twyford school now, not at Winton,
  One hundred guineas and a ring,
  Or some such memorandum thing,
  And truly much I should have blunder'd,
  Had I not given another hundred
  To dear Earl Paulett's second son,
  Who dearly loves a little fun.
  Unto my nephew, Stephen Langdon,
  Of whom none says he e'er has wrong done,
  The civil laws he loves to hash,
  I give two hundred pounds in cash.
  One hundred pounds to my niece, Tudor,
  (With luring eyes one Clark did view her,)
  And to her children just among 'em,
  A hundred more--and not to wrong 'em,
  In equal shares I freely give it,
  Not doubting but they will receive it.
  To Betsy Mudford and Mary Lee,
  If they with Mrs. Mudford be,
  Because they round the year did dwell
  In Davies-street, and serv'd full well.
  The first ten pounds, the other twenty,
  And girls, I hope that will content ye.
  In seventeen hundred and sixty-nine,
  This with my hand I write and sign,
  The sixteenth day of fair October,
  In merry mood, but sound and sober.
  Past my threescore and fifteenth year,
  With spirits gay and conscience clear--
  Joyous and frolicksome, though old,
  And like this day, serene, but cold;
  To foes well wishing, and to friends most kind,
  In perfect charity with all mankind.
  For what remains I must desire,
  To use the words of Matthew Prior.
  Let this my will be well obey'd,
  And farewell all, I'm not afraid,
  For what avails a struggling sigh.
  When soon, or later, all must die?
    M. DARLEY."

Joshua West, who was known in his sphere "as the poet of the Six Clerks' Office," made his
will in rhyme; it is dated 13th December, 1804:

   "Perhaps I die not worth a groat,
    But should I die worth somewhat more,
  Then I give that, and my best coat,
    And all my manuscripts in store,
  To those who will the goodness have
    To cause my poor remains to rest,
  Within a decent shell and grave,
    This is the will of JOSHUA WEST."

In 1654, Henry Phillips published the "Purchasers' Pattern," in which he gives advice to purchasers
of estates of inheritance, in verse.

There is also a long article in verse, "On the Distribution of Intestates' Effects: it begins--

   "By the laws of the land,
    It is settled and planned,
  That intestates' effects shall be spread,
    At the end of the year,
    When the debts are all clear,
  'Mong the kindred as here may be read."

Before the conclusion, the author says,

   "To the rest that succeed,
    We need not proceed,
  Enough has already been penn'd,
    And now it's high time,
    For our doggrel rhyme
  To come, lest it err, to an end."

This hint I shall apply to myself, lest my article become as dry and uninteresting as my subject,
and conclude with a declaration in which I heartily concur:

   "Fee simple, and a simple fee,
    And all the fees in tail,
  Are nothing when compared to thee,
    Thou best of fees--female."

W.A.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS

THE NINTH EXHIBITION OF THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH ARTISTS.

We are happy to learn that the "British Artists" continue to flourish. Their association, we
believe, originated in the inefficiency of similar Institutions. They started in a spirit of
generous rivalry, and, above all things, with the view to aid aspiring merit. It could, however,
scarcely be called rivalry to any other Institution, and to this line of conduct we attribute
much of the success of the Society of British Artists. As the Secretary states in an Address
to the Public, prefixed to this year's Catalogue, "they have never opposed, either directly
or indirectly, any existing Institution for the promotion of the Fine Arts, but have uniformly
sought to go hand in hand with whatever tended to their general advancement." It appears likewise,
that works in Painting, Sculpture, Architecture, and Engraving, to the amount of £18,000. and
upwards, have been sold from the walls of the Exhibition, since the formation of the Society,
and numerous commissions given in consequence of the talent thus displayed; and that all future
donations will be devoted towards completing the purchase of the galleries occupied by the
Society, in Suffolk-street.

The full attendance at the private view on Friday, accorded with these gratifying statements.
Suffolk-street and Pall Mall East were crowded with the carriages of visiters, and in the rooms
was an abundant sprinkling of nobility, patrons of art, men of letters, and some note of purchases
at the keeper's table. There are upwards of 800 Pictures, and about 100 specimens of Sculpture
and Engraving. The crowded state of the rooms during the hour that we were there, allowed us
only to note a few works.

1. Cardinal Weld; a well painted portrait, by James Ramsey, of the benevolent owner of Lulworth
Castle. The features are dignified and finely intellectual. We could, too, associate their
expression with the philanthropic act of the Cardinal's affording an asylum to fallen royalty.

13. Ruins. D. Roberts. A delightful composition, from these exquisite lines by Mrs. Hemans:

   "There have been bright and glorious pageants here,
    Where now grey stones and moss-grown columns lie--
  There have been words, which earth grew pale to hear,
    Breath'd from the cavern's misty chambers nigh:
    There have been voices through the sunny sky,
  And the pine woods, their choral hymn-notes sending,
    And reeds and lyres, their Dorian melody,
  With incense clouds around the temple blending,
    And throngs, with laurel boughs, before the altar bending."

27. A Philosopher. H. Wyatt. Admirably coloured: the flesh tints and deep expression of the
features will not escape notice.

52. The Town of Menagio, on the Lake of Como. T.C. Hofland. A scene of beautiful repose in
the artist's best style.

57. Portrait of Mrs. Davenport in the character of the Nurse in "Romeo and Juliet." James Holmes.
Almost speakingly characteristic. You may imagine the actress drawling out, "awear--y," and
her attitude admirably accords with "Fie, how my bones ache."

114. The Baptism. G. Harvey, S.A. Foremost among the attractions of the Exhibition, though
of a serious turn.

155. His Most Gracious Majesty William the Fourth. H.E. Dawe. The King in his state robes:
the likeness is excellent.

156. The Grecian Choirs at the Temple of Apollo. A sweet composition by W. Linton, from Petrarch;
"representing the passage of the Choirs across the narrow strait between Delos and Rhenia,
by a bridge magnificently decorated with gold and garlands, rich stuffs and tapestry," the
splendour of which is enhanced by the brightness of a summer's morning.

162. "In peace love tunes the Shepherd's reed," a pretty composition from this line by Scott,
painted by Mrs. John Hakewill. A rustic boy and girl are seated beneath a woody bank: the intent
expression of the boy playing the pipe and of the listening girl are really delightful.

195. Edinburgh Castle from the Grass Market. D. Roberts. A fine picture of the associated sublimities
of nature and art.

208. The Ettrick Shepherd in his Forest Plaid. J.W. Gordon. Correct in likeness, but strangely
shadowed.

224. Coronation of William IV. The first picture of a series to represent the procession to
the Abbey on the day of the Coronation of his present Majesty, containing the portraits of
distinguished personages who attended on that occasion.--Painted for his Majesty, by R.B. Davis.
This picture occupies comparatively as much length on the walls as its description would in
our columns: it is some yards long, and perhaps four feet in height. It is but hastily painted.
The framework is excellent, and well appointed for St. James's, Windsor, or Buckingham Palace.
We hope the picture will be liked there as well as the frame.

244. Elizabeth relieving the Exile, by Miss A. Beaumont, is an interesting picture, from the
well-remembered incident in the Exiles of Siberia.

296. Interior of a Gaming-house. H. Pidding. We take this to represent one of the salons of
Frescati's, or other Parisian gaming-house, where females are admitted to participate in the
game, and witness the madness and folly of the stronger sex. The party are chiefly about a
rouge et noir table, and are in the highest stage of recklessness. One of them, a female, has
flung herself from the lure across a chair, apparently in the last stage of wretchedness and
despair. The excitement of the players is powerfully wrought up and contrasted with the sang
froid of the croupier, who seems to treat all the world as a ball. Other persons are seeking
fresh excitement at the hands of a liveried waiter. But we must leave the rest, which it would
take a column or two to describe, especially as to our mind, a gaming-house furnishes an epitome
of all the bad passions that rankle in the human breast.

301. The Reform Question. Thomas Clater. A pleasanter scene than the preceding picture. A village
blacksmith is reading the newspaper, by a candle held by a boy, to a listening neighbour. The
puzzling of the reader, the vacant stare of the candle-holder, and the intent expression of
the absorbed listener, are excellent. Perhaps the light of the candle is objectionable.

311. Love in the Dairy. H.H. Hobday. A ticklish village amour: a young fellow importuning a
buxom dairy-maid, and apparently on the verge of conquest; in the distant door-way stands a
mar-loving, wrinkled old woman, whose crabbed face ought not to be trusted in a dairy.

466. The Lord Chancellor, seated in a chair, in his official robes, by J. Lonsdale. The likeness
is excellent, as are the robes, wig, ruffles, &c. but the great seal and mace are even dingier
than the orignals. We could have spared the books thrown on the floor, though the paper register
in one of them almost comes out.

We reserve a few pictures for another visit. The Portraits, as might be expected, are numerous.
The King's supporters are two ex-sheriffs: by the way, how many good turns does office yield
to art; there is nothing like a portrait to perpetuate your brief authority. Works of imagination
are scarce, especially as empainting the ideas of poets and passion-writers has become fashionable.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

THE VEGETABLE WORLD.

We pencil a few passages, at random, from Part 14 of Knowledge for the People--(Botany, concluded.)

Why does snow, when in contact with leaves and stems, melt more speedily than when lodged upon
dead substances?

Because of the internal heat of the plants, heat being a production of the vegetable as well
as animal body, though in a much lower degree in the former than the latter. Mr. Hunter appears
to have detected this heat by a thermometer applied in frosty weather to the internal parts
of vegetables newly opened. It is evident that a certain appropriate portion of heat is a necessary
stimulus to the constitution of every plant, without which its living principle is destroyed.--Smith.

Why is fructification so important to plants?

Because it continues them by seeds, and, according to Sir James Smith, "all other modes of
propagation are but the extension of an individual, and, sooner or later, terminate in its
total extinction." Dr. Drummond is of a contrary opinion, and quotes the following fact:--"In
South America there is a species of bamboo which forms forests in the marshes of many leagues
in extent, and yet Mutis, who botanized for nearly twenty years in the parts where it grows,
was never able to detect the fructifications."--Humboldt.

The produce of vegetable seeds in a hundred-fold degree is common, and many trees and shrubs
bring forth their fruit by thousands. A single plant of the poppy will produce above 30,000
seeds; and, of tobacco, above 40,000; and Buffon remarks, that from the seeds of a single elm-tree,
one hundred thousand young elms may be raised from the product of one year. Some ferns, it
is said, produce their seeds by millions.

Why should seeds be uniformly kept dry before sown?

Because the least damp will cause an attempt at vegetation, when the seeds necessarily die,
as the process cannot, as they are situated, go on.

Why, in summer, is continued watering required to newly sown seeds?

Because, if the soil is only moistened at the time of sowing, it induces the projection of
the radicle, or first root, which, in very parching weather, and in clayey cutting soil, withers
away, and the crop is consequently lost, for want of a continued supply of moisture.

Why is selection important for procuring abundance of genuine seeds?

Because we may then choose the most vigorous plants, which naturally prove of greater fecundity.
Thus, in 1823, Mr. Shirreff marked one vigorous wheat plant, near the centre of a field, which
produced him 2,473 grains. These were dibbled in the autumn of the same year, the produce sown
broadcast the second and third years, and the fourth harvest produced forty quarters of sound
grain. A fine purple-topped Swedish turnip produced 100,296 grains, which was seed enough for
five imperial acres, and thus, in three years, one turnip would produce seed enough for Great
Britain for a year.--Quarterly Journal of Agriculture.

Why are winds the great agents by which seeds are diffused?

Because seeds are, as it were, provided with various wings for seizing on the breeze. The thistle
and dandelion are familiar examples of this mode of dissemination. "How little," Sir J.E. Smith
observes, "are children aware, as they blow away the seeds of dandelion, or stick burs in sport
upon each other's clothes, that they are fulfilling one of the great ends of nature." Dr. Woodward
calculates, that one seed of the common spear thistle will produce "at the first crop, twenty-four
thousand, and consequently five hundred and twenty-six millions of seeds, at the second."

Some plants discharge their seeds. Thus, a certain fungus has the property of ejecting its
seeds with great force and rapidity, and with a loud cracking noise, and yet it is no bigger
than a pin's head!

Why is a milky fluid found in the cocoa-nut?

Because in this case, as well as in a few others, all the fluids destined to nourish the embryo
of the fruit does not harden, whence a greater or less quantity of this kind of mild emulsion
is contained within the kernel.

Why are certain eatable roots unfit for the table when the plants have flowered?

Because the mucus or proper juice in the tubular cells being appropriated for perfecting the
flower stem, the flower, and the fruit, is absorbed as the fructification of the stem advances;
and, as these are perfected, the cells are emptied, and their sides become ligneous.

Why is the Jerusalem Artichoke so called?

Because of its corruption from its Italian name, Girasole Articiocco, sunflower artichoke,
as the plant was first brought from Peru to Italy, and thence propagated throughout Europe.--Smith.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN MANNERS.

We suspect certain pages of Mrs. Trollope's Domestic Manners of the Americans to be highly
coloured, but they are cleverly written, and will be read with considerable interest.

A Backwoodsman.

A Presbyterian Church in Cincinnati.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

THE COFFIN-MAKER.

The paper in the New Monthly Magazine, under this title, occupies a sheet or sixteen pages,
and is stated to be from the pen of the Hon. Mrs. Norton. It is written in an almost breathless,
and purposely hurried, style, and the narrative of feelings and incidents flows with such rapidity,
that the reader is carried onward, nolens volens, vi et verbis through the adventures. The
writer is the son of a carpenter: his father dies; unable to obtain any other employment, he
obtains that of a coffin-maker. His aversion to the trade, and the state of his feelings is
thus naturally described:

