1. The Renowned History of Giles Gingerbread: a little boy who lived
     upon learning.

 "2. The Easter Gift; or the way to be good; a book much wanted.

 "3. The Whitsuntide Gift: or the way to be happy; a book very necessary
     for all families.

 "4. The Valentine Gift: or how to behave with honour, integrity, and
     humanity: very useful with a Trading Nation.

 "5. The Fairing: or a golden present for children. Printed and sold at The
  Bible and Sun in St Paul's Churchyard, where may be had all Mr
  Newbery's little books for the children and youth of these kingdoms
  and the colonies. New Editions of those which were out of print are
  now republished.

 "The publication of the Lilliputian System of Politics is postponed
  till the meeting of Parliament. This work, which will be replete with
  cuts and characters, is not intended to exalt or depress any
  particular country, to support the pride of any particular family, or
  to feed the folly of any particular party, but to stimulate the mind
  to virtue, to promote universal benevolence, to make mankind happy.
  Those who would know more of the matter may enquire of Mr Newbery."

This quaint and curious announcement, with its sly humour and serious playfulness, is characteristic
of the house of John Newbery, in the latter part of the last century; and there is no need
to speak here of the fame of the books for children which he published; "the philanthropic
publisher of St Paul's Churchyard," as Goldsmith calls him, conferred inestimable benefits
upon thousands of little folk, of both high and low estate. It is said of Southey when a child that

 "The well-known publishers of "Goody Two Shoes," "Giles Gingerbread,"
  and other such delectable histories, in sixpenny books for children,
  splendidly bound in the flowered and gilt Dutch paper of former days,
  sent him twenty such volumes, and laid the foundation of a love of
  books which grew with the child's growth, and did not cease even when
  the vacant mind and eye could only gaze in piteous, though blissful
  imbecility upon the things they loved."[A]

Many of these little books have been doubtless long since forgotten, though they did not deserve
such a fate; but the name of "Goody Two Shoes" is still familiar to the ears of English children,
though the book itself may be unknown to thousands of little ones of this later generation.

"Goody Two Shoes" was published in April 1765, and few nursery books have had a wider circulation,
or have retained their position so long. The number of editions that have been published both
in England and America is legion, and it has appeared in mutilated versions under the auspices
of numerous publishing houses in London and the provinces, although of late years there have
been no new issues. The children of to-day, too, will look on it with some curiosity, on account
of the fact that it is one of the oldest of our nursery tales, and amused and edified their
grand-parents and great grand-parents when they were children, while they cannot fail to be
attracted by its simple, pretty, and interesting story.

       *       *       *       *       *

The question of the authorship of the book is still an unsettled one. It was at one time commonly
attributed to Oliver Goldsmith, and no one who reads the book will consider it to be unworthy
of the poet's pen. We find, however, in Nichol's Literary Anecdotes, that

 "It is not perhaps generally known that to Mr Griffith Jones, and a
  brother of his, Mr Giles Jones, in conjunction with Mr John Newbery,
  the public are indebted for the origin of those numerous and popular
  little books for the amusement and instruction of children which have
  been ever since received with universal approbation. The Lilliputian
  histories of Goody Two Shoes, Giles Gingerbread, Tommy Trip, &c., &c.,
  are remarkable proofs of the benevolent minds of the projectors of
  this plan of instruction, and respectable instances of the
  accommodation of superior talents to the feeble intellects of
  infantine felicity."

Mr Giles Jones was the grandfather of the late Mr Winter Jones, formerly the Principal Librarian
of the British Museum, and the book is attributed to the first-named gentleman in the catalogue
of the British Museum. It is claimed also that the book offers internal evidence in support
of Mr Giles Jones' authorship, inasmuch as Goody Two Shoes becomes Lady Jones, and one of the
prominent families in the book is also named Jones.

Beyond this, however, there appears to be no evidence as to Mr Giles Jones being the writer,
and I think something may be said as to the claim on behalf of the poet Goldsmith, although
I am by no means anxious that the honour of having written it should be ascribed either to
the one or to the other: the following remarks, which are mainly taken from an article I contributed
to the Athenæum in April 1881, are offered simply as speculations which may not be without
interest to lovers of the little book. They may, perhaps, show that there is some reason for
attributing the work to Oliver Goldsmith, although, of course, it is not claimed that they
absolutely establish the fact.

Having occasion to examine carefully as many of the books for children published by John Newbery
as I could procure (and they are as scarce as blackberries in midwinter, for what among books
has so brief a life as a nursery book?), I was struck while perusing them with a certain distinct
literary flavour, so to speak, which appeared to be common to a group of little volumes, all
published about the same period. These were: "Goody Two Shoes," "Giles Gingerbread," "Tom Thumb's
Folio," "The Lilliputian Magazine," "The Lilliputian Masquerade," "The Easter Gift," "A Pretty
Plaything," "The Fairing," "Be Merry and Wise," "The Valentine's Gift," "Pretty Poems for the
Amusement of Children Three Feet High," "A Pretty Book of Pictures," "Tom Telescope," and a
few others. I give abbreviated titles only, but if space permitted I mould like to quote them
in full; they are remarkable no less for their curious quaintness and their clever ingenuity
than for their attractiveness to both parents (who, it must not be forgotten, are more often
the real buyers of children's books) and the young people for whom they were written, and they
are in themselves most entertaining and amusing reading. This group of little books possesses,
moreover, another characteristic that is sufficiently remarkable of itself to be noticed. While
they all evince a real genius for writing in a style suited to the capacities of little folk,
there is a nameless something about them which, far more than is the case with thousands of
other books for the young, is calculated to enforce the attention and excite the interest of
"children of a larger growth."

Now one of this little group, "The Lilliputian Magazine," is attributed in the British Museum
Catalogue to Oliver Goldsmith; and so strong is the family likeness in all the books I have
mentioned, that I cannot but believe they are all by the same hand--a belief which I think
will be shared by any one who will take the trouble to compare them carefully. But I should
advise him to rely on the Newbery editions alone, for grievously garbled versions of nearly
every one of these books have been issued from many different houses throughout the country.

Many authorities have supported the view that Goldsmith was the author of "Goody Two Shoes."
It is said also that William Godwin held this opinion; and I believe there is authority for
stating that the Misses Bewick, the daughters of the celebrated engraver, who illustrated an
edition of the book for T. Saint, of Newcastle, understood from their father that it was by
Oliver Goldsmith.

But let us turn to the book itself and see if it furnishes any evidence on the point. The very
title, with its quaint phrasing, shows no common genius, and as Washington Irving says, "bears
the stamp of his [Goldsmith's] sly and playful humour." As the book was published in 1765,
it would most likely have been written just at the time when Goldsmith was working most industriously
in the service of Newbery (1763-4), at which period it will be remembered that he was living
near Newbery at Islington, and his publisher was paying for his board and lodging.

Without, of course, claiming that similarity of idea in different writings necessarily betokens
the same authorship, I think the parallels that are to be found in this little book, with many
of the sentiments in Oliver Goldsmith's acknowledged work--to say nothing of the almost universally
recognized likeness to Goldsmith's style that is found in "Goody Two Shoes" may fairly be considered
as throwing some light upon the question.

The most striking of these parallels is perhaps that furnished by the curious little political
preface to the work--a preface which is quite unnecessary to the book, and I think would only
have been inserted by one who was full of the unjustnesses at which he was preparing to aim
a still heavier blow.

And by this and other tyrannies, and being also

  Scourged by famine from the smiling land,

for he was "unfortunate in his business" at about the same time, Sir Timothy accomplishes his
aim, and

  Indignant spurns the cottage from the green.

Ruined by this oppression, poor Mr Meanwell is turned out of doors, and flew to another parish
for succour.

  Where, then, ah! where shall poverty reside
  To 'scape the pressure of contiguous pride?

Miss Charlotte Yonge, to whom I shall refer again, lays upon this: "If the conjecture be true
which attributes this tale to Oliver Goldsmith, we have seen the same spirit which prompted
his poem of 'The Deserted Village,' namely, indignation and dismay at the discouragement of
small holdings in the early part of the eighteenth century."[C] Indeed, it may well be that
we have in this preface even a more true picture of Lissoy than that given in the poem, which,
as Mr William Black says in his monograph on Goldsmith, "is there seen through the softening
and beautifying mist of years."

Much more might be said of the characteristics of this little book, which contains so much
that reminds us not only of the style but the matter of many of Goldsmith's writings.

       *       *       *       *       *

The reprint which is here presented is a photographic facsimile of the earliest complete copy
that we have been able to procure. Judging from fragments of earlier editions in the possession
of the publishers, it would appear to be printed from exactly the same types as the original
issue of April 1765. The copy from which the reprint is made was kindly lent to the publishers
by Mr Ernest Hartley Coleridge, whose collection at the South Kensington Museum of eighteenth
century books for children is well known. The actual size of that book is 4 inches by 2-3/4,
but it has been thought better to print on somewhat larger paper. The original is bound in
the once familiar Dutch flowered and gilt pattern paper, and we had hoped to present the reprint
in a similar cover, but it was found impossible, as nothing like it could be procured, nor
could the manufacturers of the present day exactly reproduce it.

[Footnote A: Essays from the Times. Robert Southey. By Samuel Phillips, pp. 168-169, vol. i.]

[Footnote B: See "The Works of Charles Lamb." By Percy Fitzgerald, M.A., F.S.A. Vol. 1. Page 420.

See the Original Manuscript in the Vatican at Rome, and the Cuts by Michael Angelo. Illustrated
with the Comments of our great modern Critics.

                       ------------------------
                          The THIRD EDITION.
                       ------------------------
                              LONDON:

              Printed for J. NEWBERY, at the Bible and
               Sun in St.Paul's-Church-Yard, 1766.
                          (Price Six-pence.)

                                TO ALL

                     Young Gentlemen and Ladies,

                 Who are good, or intend to be good,

                              This BOOK

                           Is inscribed by

                           Their old Friend

                      In St. Paul's Church-yard.

                             The Renowned

                               HISTORY

                                  OF

                       Little GOODY TWO-SHOES,

                           Commonly called,

                         Old GOODY TWO-SHOES.

                       ------------------------
                               PART I.
                       ------------------------

                     INTRODUCTION. By the Editor.

The Case was thus. Why, do you suppose this is written by Mr. NEWBERY, Sir? This may come from
another Hand. So, Sir, your Servant,

The EDITOR.

                               CHAP. Pray see them.

                              CHAP. Pray look at him. However, as they were so
very fond, the Gentleman would not suffer them to take Leave of each
other; but told Tommy he should ride out with him, and come
back at Night. When night came, Little Margery grew very uneasy
about her Brother, and after sitting up as late as Mr. Smith
would let her, she went crying to Bed.

                              CHAP.

                              CHAP.

The usual Manner of Spelling, or carrying on the Game, as they called it, was this: Suppose
the Word to be spelt was Plumb Pudding (and who can suppose a better) the Children were placed
in a Circle, and the first brought the Letter P, the next l, the next u, the next m, and so
on till the Whole was spelt; and if any one brought a wrong Letter, he was to pay a Fine, or
play no more. This was at their Play; and every Morning she used to go round to teach the Children
with these Rattle-traps in a Basket, as you see in the Print.

I once went her Rounds with her, and was highly diverted, as you may be, if you please to look
into the next Chapter.

                               CHAP.

                      B D F H K M O Q S U W Y Z
                      A C E G I L N P R T V X J.

and he picked them all up, and having told their Names, placed them thus:

                      A B C D E F G H I J K L M
                      N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z.

Now, pray little Reader, take this Bodkin, and see if you can point out the Letters from these
mixed Alphabets, and tell how they should be placed as well as little Boy Billy.

And pronounced them likewise. She then sung the Cuzz's Chorus (which may be found in the Little
Pretty Play Thing, published by Mr. NEWBERY) and to the same Tune to which it is there set.

And what had you Polly Comb for your Dinner?

Then the next took the Letters, and composed this Sentence.

Lord have Mercy upon me, and grant that I may love my Neighbour as myself, and do unto all
Men as I would have them do unto me, and tell no Lies; but be honest and just in all my Dealings.

The third composed the following Sentence.

The Lord have Mercy upon me, and grant that I may honour my Father and Mother, and love my
Brothers and Sisters, Relations and Friends, and all my Playmates, and every Body, and endeavour
to make them happy.

The fourth composed the following.

I pray GOD to bless this whole Company, and all our Friends, and all our Enemies.

To this last Polly Sullen objected, and said, truly, she did not know why she should pray for
her Enemies? Not pray for your Enemies, says Little Margery; yes, you must, you are no Christian,
if you don't forgive your Enemies, and do Good for Evil. Polly still pouted; upon which Little
Margery said, though she was poor, and obliged to lie in a Barn, she would not keep Company
with such a naughty, proud, perverse Girl as Polly; and was going away; however the Difference
was made up, and she set them to compose the following

  LESSONS

  For the CONDUCT of LIFE.

  LESSON I.

  He that will thrive,
  Must rise by Five.
  He that hath thriv'n,
  May lie till Seven.
  Truth may be blam'd,
  But cannot be sham'd.
  Tell me with whom you go;
  And I'll tell what you do.
  A Friend in your Need,
  Is a Friend indeed.
  They ne'er can be wise,
  Who good Counsel despise.

  LESSON II.

  A wise Head makes a close Mouth.
  Don't burn your Lips with another Man's Broth.
  Wit is Folly, unless a wise Man hath the keeping of it.
  Use soft Words and hard Arguments.
  Honey catches more Flies than Vinegar.
  To forget a Wrong is the best Revenge.
  Patience is a Plaister for all Sores.
  Where Pride goes, Shame will follow.
  When Vice enters the Room, Vengeance is near the Door.
  Industry is Fortune's right Hand, and Frugality her left.
  Make much of Three-pence, or you ne'er will be worth a Groat.

  LESSON III.

  A Lie stands upon one Leg, but Truth upon two.
  When a Man talks much, believe but half what he says.
  Fair Words butter no Parsnips.
  Bad Company poisons the Mind.
  A covetous Man is never satisfied.
  Abundance, like Want, ruins many.
  Contentment is the best Fortune.
  A contented Mind is a continual Feast.

  A LESSON in Religion.

  Love GOD, for he is good.
  Fear GOD, for he is just.
  Pray to GOD, for all good Things come from him.
  Praise GOD, for great is his Mercy towards us, and wonderful
    are all his Works.
  Those who strive to be good, have GOD on their Side.
  Those who have GOD for their Friend, shall want nothing.
  Confess your Sins to GOD, and if you repent he will forgive you.
  Remember that all you do, is done in the Presence of GOD.
  The Time will come, my Friends, when we must give
  Account to GOD, how we on Earth did live.

  A Moral LESSON.

  A good Boy will make a good Man.
  Honour your Parents, and the World will honour you.
  Love your Friends, and your Friends will love you.
  He that swims in Sin, will sink in Sorrow.
  Learn to live, as you would wish to die.
    As you expect all Men should deal by you:
    So deal by them, and give each Man his Due. They never build over Cottages or Farm-houses, because
they see, that these People know how to live without their Admonition.

                              CHAP. VI.

              How the whole Parish was frighted.

Who does not know Lady Ducklington, or who does not know that she was buried at this Parish Church?

This if a fine Hearse indeed, and the nodding Plumes on the Horses look very grand; but what
End does that answer, otherwise than to display the Pride of the Living, or the Vanity of the
Dead. Fie upon such Folly, say I, and Heaven grant that those who want more Sense may have it.

                               CHAP. VII.

                             CHAP. VIII.

                              CHAP.

On this Occasion the following Hymn, or rather a Translation of the twenty-third Psalm, is
said to have been written, and was soon after published in the Spectator.

                                 IV.

Here ends the History of Little Two Shoes. Those who would know how she behaved after she came
to be Mrs. Margery Two-Shoes must read the Second Part of this Work, in which an Account of
the Remainder of her Life, her Marriage, and Death are set forth at large, according to Act
of Parliament.

                         ====================

                             The Renowned

                               HISTORY

                                  OF

                       Mrs. MARGERY TWO-SHOES.

                         --------------------
                               PART II.
                         --------------------

                            INTRODUCTION.

                              CHAP.

She had the following Assistants or Ushers to help her, and I will tell you how she came by
them. Mrs. Margery, you must know, was very humane and compassionate; and her Tenderness extended
not only to all Mankind, but even to all Animals that were not noxious; as your's ought to
do, if you would be happy here, and go to Heaven hereafter. These are GOD Almighty's Creatures
as well as we. He made both them and us; and for wise Purposes, best known to himself, placed
them in this World to live among us; so that they are our fellow Tenants of the Globe. How
then can People dare to torture and wantonly destroy GOD Almighty's Creatures? They as well
as you are capable of feeling Pain, and of receiving Pleasure, and how can you, who want to
be made happy yourself, delight in making your fellow Creatures miserable? Do you think the
poor Birds, whose Nest and young ones that wicked Boy Dick Wilson ran away with Yesterday,
do not feel as much Pain, as your Father and Mother would have felt, had any one pulled down
their House and ran away with you? To be sure they do. Mrs. Two-Shoes used to speak of those
Things, and of naughty Boys throwing at Cocks, torturing Flies, and whipping Horses and Dogs,
with Tears in her Eyes, and would never suffer any one to come to her School who did so.

One Day, as she was going through the next Village, she met with some wicked Boys who had got
a young Raven, which they were going to throw at, she wanted to get the poor Creature out of
their cruel Hands, and therefore gave them a Penny for him, and brought him home. She called
his Name Ralph, and a fine Bird he is. Do look at him and remember what Solomon says, The Eye
that despiseth his Father, and regardeth not the Distress of his Mother, the Ravens of the
Valley shall peck it out, and the young Eagles eat it. Now this Bird she taught to speak, to
spell and to read; and as he was particularly fond of playing with the large Letters, the Children
used to call this Ralph'a Alphabet.

                      A B C D E F G H I J K L M
                      N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z.

He always sat at her Elbow, as you see in the first Picture, and when any of the Children were
wrong, she used to call out, Put them right Ralph, and a fine bird he is.  Do look at him.

Some Days after she had met with the Raven, as she was walking in the Fields, she saw some
naughty Boys, who had taken a Pidgeon, and tied a String to its Leg, in order to let it fly,
and draw it back again when they pleased; and by this Means they tortured the poor Animal with
the Hopes of Liberty and repeated Disappointment. This Pidgeon she also bought, and taught
him how to spell and read, though not to talk, and he performed all those extraordinary Things
which are recorded of the famous Bird, that was some Time since advertised in the Haymarket,
and visited by most of the great People in the Kingdom. This Pidgeon was a very pretty Fellow,
and she called him Tom. See here he is.

And as the Raven Ralph was fond of the large Letters, Tom the Pidgeon took Care of the small
ones, of which he composed this Alphabet.

                      a b c d e f g h i j k l m
                      n o p q r s t u v w x y z.

The Neighbours knowing that Mrs. Two Shoes was very good, as to be sure nobody was better,
made her a Present of a little Sky-lark, and a fine Bird he is.

Now as many People, even at that Time had learned to lie in Bed long in the Morning, she thought
the Lark might be of Use to her and her Pupils, and tell them when to get up.

For be that is fond of his Bed, and lays 'till Noon, lives but half his Days, the rest being
lost in Sleep, which is a Kind of Death.

Some Time after this a poor Lamb had lost its Dam, and the Farmer being about to kill it, she
bought it of him, and brought it home with her to play with the Children, and teach them when
to go to Bed; for it was a Rule with the wise Men of that Age (and a very good one, let me
tell you) to

  Rise with the Lark, and lie down with the Lamb.

This Lamb she called Will, and a pretty Fellow he is; do, look at him.

No sooner was Tippy the Lark and Will the Ba-lamb brought into the School, but that sensible
Rogue Ralph, the Raven, composed the following Verse, which every little good Boy and Girl
should get by Heart.

  Early to Bed, and early to rise;
  Is the Way to be healthy, and wealthy, and wise.

A sly Rogue; but it is true enough; for those who do not go to Bed early cannot rise early;
and those who do not rise early cannot do much Business. Pray, let this be told at the Court,
and to People who have Routs and Rackets.

Soon after this, a Present was made to Mrs. Margery of little Dog Jumper, and a pretty Dog
he is. Pray, look at him.

Jumper, Jumper, Jumper! He is always in a good Humour, and playing and jumping about, and therefore
he was called Jumper. The Place assigned for Jumper was that of keeping the Door, so that he
may be called the Porter of the College, for he would let nobody go out, or any one come in,
without the Leave of his Mistress. See how he sits, a saucy Rogue.

Billy the Ba-lamb was a chearful Fellow, and all the Children were fond of him, wherefore Mrs.
Two-Shoes made it a Rule, that those who behaved best should have Will home with them at Night
to carry their Satchel or Basket at his Back, and bring it in the Morning. See what a fine
Fellow he is, and how he trudges along.

                              CHAP. It is generally said, that we never know the real Value of our
Parents or Friends till we have lost them; but poor Sally felt
this by Affection, and her Mistress knew it by Experience. All the
School were in Tears, and the Messenger was obliged to return; but
before he went, Mrs. Two-Shoes, unknown to the Children,
ordered Tom Pidgeon to go home with the Man, and bring a Letter
to inform her how Mr. Jones did. They set out together, and the
Pidgeon rode on the Man's Head, (as you see here) for the Man was able
to carry the Pidgeon, though the Pidgeon was not able to carry the
Man, if he had, they would have been there much sooner, for Tom
Pidgeon was very good, and never staid on an Errand.

Soon after the Man was gone the Pidgeon was lost, and the Concern the Children were under for
Mr. Jones and little Sally was in some Measure diverted, and Part of their Attention turned
after Tom, who was a great Favourite, and consequently much bewailed. Mrs. Margery, who knew
the great Use and Necessity of teaching Children to submit chearfully to the Will of Providence,
bid them wipe away their Tears, and then kissing Sally, you must be a good Girl, says she,
and depend upon GOD Almighty for his Blessing and Protection; for he is a Father to the Fatherless,
and defendeth all those who put their Trust in him. She then told them a Story, which I shall
relate in as few Words as possible.

            The History of Mr. Lovewell, Father
                          to Lady Lucy.

Mr. Lovewell was born at Bath, and apprenticed to a laborious Trade in London, which being
too hard for him, he parted with his Master by Consent, and hired himself as a common Servant
to a Merchant in the City. Here he spent his leisure Hours not as Servants too frequently do,
in Drinking and Schemes of Pleasure, but in improving his Mind; and among other Acquirements,
he made himself a complete Master of Accompts. His Sobriety, Honesty, and the Regard he paid
to his Master's Interest, greatly recommended him in the whole Family, and he had several Offices
of Trust committed to his Charge, in which he acquitted himself so well, that the Merchant
removed him from the Stable into the Counting-house.

Here he soon made himself Master of the Business, and became so useful to the Merchant, that
in regard to his faithful Services, and the Affection he had for him, he married him to his
own Niece, a prudent agreeable young Lady; and gave him a Share in the Business. See what Honesty
and Industry will do for us. Half the great Men in London, I am told, have made themselves
by this Means, and who would but be honest and industrious, when it is so much our Interest
and our Duty.

After some Years the Merchant died, and left Mr. Lovewell possessed of many fine Ships at Sea,
and much Money, and he was happy in a Wife, who had brought him a Son and two Daughters, all
dutiful and obedient. The Treasures and good Things, however, of this Life are so uncertain,
that a Man can never be happy, unless he lays the Foundation for it in his own Mind. So true
is that Copy in our Writing Books, which tells us, that a contented Mind is a continual Feast.

After some Years successful Trade, he thought his Circumstances sufficient to insure his own
Ships, or, in other Words, to send his Ships and Goods to Sea without being insured by others,
as is customary among Merchants; when, unfortunately for him, four of them richly laden were
lost at Sea. This he supported with becoming Resolution; but the next Mail brought him Advice,
that nine others were taken by the French, with whom we were then at War; and this, together
with the Failure of three foreign Merchants whom he had trusted, compleated his Ruin. He was
then obliged to call his Creditors together, who took his Effects, and being angry with him
for the imprudent Step of not insuring his Ships, left him destitute of all Subsistence. Nor
did the Flatterers of his Fortune, those who had lived by his Bounty when in his Prosperity,
pay the least Regard either to him or his Family. So true is another Copy, that you will find
in your Writing Book, which says, Misfortune tries our Friends. All these Slights of his pretended
Friends, and the ill Usage of his Creditors, both he and his Family bore with Christian Fortitude;
but other Calamities fell upon him, which he felt more sensibly.

In his Distress, one of his Relations, who lived at Florence, offered to take his Son; and
another, who lived at Barbadoes, sent for one of his Daughters. The Ship which his Son sailed
in was cast away, and all the Crew supposed to be lost; and the Ship, in which his Daughter
went a Passenger, was taken by Pyrates, and one Post brought the miserable Father an Account
of the Loss of his two Children. This was the severest Stroke of all: It made him compleatly
wretched, and he knew it must have a dreadful Effect on his Wife and Daughter; he therefore
endeavoured to conceal it from them. But the perpetual Anxiety he was in, together with the
Loss of his Appetite and Want of Rest, soon alarmed his Wife. She found something was labouring
in his Breast, which was concealed from her; and one Night being disturbed in a Dream, with
what was ever in his Thoughts, and calling out upon his dear Children; she awoke him, and insisted
upon knowing the Cause of his Inquietude. Nothing, my Dear, nothing, says he, The Lord gave,
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the Name of the Lord. This was sufficient to alarm
the poor Woman; she lay till his Spirits were composed, and as she thought asleep, then stealing
out of Bed, got the Keys and opened his Bureau, where she found the fatal Account. In the Height
of her Distractions, she flew to her Daughter's Room, and waking her with her Shrieks, put
the Letters into her Hands. The young Lady, unable to support this Load of Misery, fell into
a Fit, from which it was thought she never could have been recovered. However, at last she
revived; but the Shock was so great, that it entirely deprived her of her Speech.

Thus loaded with Misery, and unable to bear the Slights and Disdain of those who had formerly
professed themselves Friends, this unhappy Family retired into a Country, where they were unknown,
in order to hide themselves from the World; when, to support their Independency, the Father
laboured as well as he could at Husbandry, and the Mother and Daughter sometimes got spinning
and knitting Work, to help to furnish the Means of Subsistence; which however was so precarious
and uncertain, that they often, for many Weeks together, lived on nothing but Cabbage and Bread
boiled in Water. But God never forsaketh the Righteous, nor suffereth those to perish who put
their Trust in him. At this Time a Lady, who was just come to England, sent to take a pleasant
Seat ready furnished in that Neighbourhood, and the Person who was employed for the Purpose,
was ordered to deliver a Bank Note of an hundred Pounds to Mr. Lovewell, another hundred to
his Wife, and fifty to the Daughter, desiring them to take Possession of the House, and get
it well aired against she came down, which would be in two or three Days at most. This, to
People who were almost starving, was a sweet and seasonable Relief, and they were all sollicitous
to know their Benefactress, but of that the Messenger himself was too ignorant to inform them.
However, she came down sooner than was expected, and with Tears embraced them again and again:
After which she told the Father and Mother she had heard from their Daughter, who was her Acquaintance,
and that she was well and on her Return to England. This was the agreeable Subject of their
Conversation till after Dinner, when drinking their Healths, she again with Tears saluted them,
and falling upon her Knees asked their Blessings.

Tis impossible to express the mutual Joy which this occasioned. Their Conversation was made
up of the most endearing Expressions, intermingled with Tears and Caresses. Their Torrent of
Joy, however, was for a Moment interrupted, by a Chariot which stopped at the Gate, and which
brought as they thought a very unseasonable Visitor, and therefore she sent to be excused from
seeing Company.

But this had no Effect, for a Gentleman richly dressed jumped out of the Chariot, and pursuing
the Servant into the Parlour saluted them round, who were all astonished at his Behaviour.
But when the Tears trickled from his Cheeks, the Daughter, who had been some Years dumb, immediately
cried out, my Brother! my Brother! my Brother! and from that Instant recovered her Speech.
The mutual Joy which this occasioned, is better felt than expressed. Those who have proper
Sentiments of Humanity, Gratitude, and filial Piety will rejoice at the Event, and those who
have a proper Idea of the Goodness of God, and his gracious Providence, will from this, as
well as other Instances of his Goodness and Mercy, glorify his holy Name, and magnify his Wisdom
and Power, who is a Shield to the Righteous, and defendeth all those who put their Trust in him.

As you, my dear Children, may be sollicitous to know how this happy Event was brought about,
I must inform you, that Mr. Lovewell's Son, when the Ship foundered, had with some others got
into the long Boat, and was taken up by a Ship at Sea, and carried to the East Indies, where
in a little Time he made a large Fortune; and the Pirates who took his Daughter, attempted
to rob her of her Chastity; but finding her Inflexible, and determined to die rather than to
submit, some of them behaved to her in a very cruel Manner; but others, who had more Honour
and Generosity, became her Defenders; upon which a Quarrel arose between them, and the Captain,
who was the worst of the Gang, being killed, the rest of the Crew carried the Ship into a Port
of the Manilla Islands, belonging to the Spaniards; where, when her Story was known, she was
treated with great Respect, and courted by a young Gentleman, who was taken ill of a Fever,
and died before the Marriage was agreed on, but left her his whole Fortune.

You see, my dear Sally, how wonderfully these People were preserved, and made happy after such
extreme Distress; we are therefore never to despair, even under the greatest Misfortunes, for
GOD Almighty is All-powerful and can deliver us at any Time. Remember Job, but I think you
have not read so far, take the Bible, Billy Jones, and read the History of that good and patient
Man. Now this poor Pidgeon had travelled fifty Miles in about an Hour, to bring Sally this
Letter, and who would destroy such pretty Creatures.--But let us read the Letter.

                              CHAP. III. She was at first surprized, however, she followed him to
see what he intended.

            ADVICE from the MAN in the MOON.

Jumper, Jumper, Jumper, what a pretty Dog he is, and how sensible? Had Mankind half the Sagacity
of Jumper, they would guard against Accidents of this Sort, by having a public Survey, occasionally
made of all the Houses in every Parish (especially of those, which are old and decayed) and
not suffer them to remain in a crazy State, 'till they fall down on the Heads of the poor Inhabitants,
and crush them to Death. Why, it was but Yesterday, that a whole House fell down in Grace-church-street,
and another in Queen's-street, and an hundred more are to tumble, before this Time twelve Months;
so Friends, take Care of yourselves, and tell the Legislature, they ought to take Care for
you. How can you be so careless? Most of your Evils arise from Carelesness and Extravagance,
and yet you excuse yourselves, and lay the Fault upon Fortune. Fortune is a Fool, and you are
a Blockhead, if you put it in her Power to play Tricks with you.

Yours,

The MAN in the MOON. You know this little Bird, sweet Jug, Jug, Jug, 'tis a Nightingale. This
little Creature, after she has entertained us with her Songs all the Spring, and bred up her
little ones, flies into a foreign Country, and finds her Way over the Great Sea, without any
of the Instruments and Helps which Men are obliged to make Use of for that Purpose. Was you
as wise as the Nightingale, you might make all the Sailors happy, and have twenty thousand
Pounds for teaching them the Longitude.

You would not think Ralph the Raven half so wise and so good as he is, though you see him here
reading his book. Yet when the Prophet Elijah, was obliged to fly from Ahab King of Israel,
and hide himself in a Cave, the Ravens, at the Command of God Almighty, fed him every Day,
and preserved his Life.

And the Word of the Lord came unto Elijah, saying, Hide thyself by the Brook Cherith, that
is before Jordan, and I have commanded the Ravens to feed thee there.

And the pretty Pidgeon when the World was drowned, and he was confined with Noah in the Ark,
was sent forth by him to see whether the Waters were abated, And he sent forth a Dove from
him, to see if the Waters were abated from off the Face of the Ground. Gen. viii. 8. 11.

As these, and other Animals, are so sensible and kind to us, we ought to be tender and good
to them, and not beat them about, and kill them, and take away their young ones, as many wicked
Boys do. Does not the Horse and the Ass carry you and your burthens; don't the Ox plough your
Ground, the Cow give you Milk, the Sheep cloath your Back, the Dog watch your House, the Goose
find you in Quills to write with, the Hen bring Eggs for your Custards and Puddings, and the
Cock call you up in the Morning, when you are lazy, and like to hurt yourselves by laying too
long in Bed? If so, how can you be so cruel to them, and abuse God Almighty's good Creatures?
Go, naughty Boy, go; be sorry for what you have done, and do so no more, that God Almighty
may forgive you. Amen, say I, again and again. God will bless you, but not unless you are merciful
and good.

The House built by Sir William, had a Statue erected over the Door of a Boy sliding on the
Ice, and under it were these Lines, written by Mrs. Two-Shoes, and engraved at her Expence.

  On SIN. A SIMILE.

    As a poor Urchin on the Ice,
  When he has tumbl'd once or twice,
  With cautious Step, and trembling goes,
  The drop-stile Pendant on his Nose,
  And trudges on to seek the Shore,
  Resolv'd to trust the Ice no more:
  But meeting with a daring Mate,
  Who often us'd to slide and scate,
  Again is into Danger led,
  And falls again, and breaks his head.
    So Youth when first they're drawn to sin,
  And see the Danger they are in,
  Would gladly quit the thorney Way,
  And think it is unsafe to stay;
  But meeting with their wicked Train,
  Return with them to sin again:
  With them the Paths of Vice explore;
  With them are ruin'd ever more.

                              CHAP. This gave not
only Mr. Grove, but all the Neighbours, an high Opinion of her
good Sense and prudent Behaviour: And she was so much esteemed, that
most of the Differences in the Parish were left to her Decision; and
if a Man and Wife quarrelled (which sometimes happened in that Part of
the Kingdom) both Parties certainly came to her for Advice.

Just as Mrs. Margery had settled this Difference between John and his Wife, the Children (who
had been sent out to play, while that Business was transacting) returned some in Tears, and
others very disconsolate, for the Loss of a little Dormouse they were very fond of, and which
was just dead. Mrs. Margery, who had the Art of moralizing and drawing Instructions from every
Accident, took this Opportunity of reading them a Lecture on the Uncertainty of Life, and the
Necessity of being always prepared for Death. You should get up in the Morning, says she, and
to conduct yourselves, as if that Day was to be your last, and lie down at Night, as if you
never expected to see this World any more. This may be done, says she, without abating of your
Chearfulness, for you are not to consider Death as an Evil, but as a Convenience, as an useful
Pilot, who is to convey you to a Place of greater Happiness: Therefore, play my dear Children,
and be merry; but be innocent and good. The good Man sets Death at Defiance, for his Darts
are only dreadful to the Wicked.

After this, she permitted the Children to bury the little Dormouse, and desired one of them
to write his Epitaph, and here it is.

Epitaph on a DORMOUSE, really
     written by a little BOY.

  I.

  In Paper Case,
  Hard by this Place,
Dead a poor Dormouse lies;
  And soon or late,
  Summon'd by Fate,
Each Prince, each Monarch dies.

  II.

  Ye Sons of Verse,
  While I rehearse,
Attend instructive Rhyme;
  No Sins had Dor,
  To answer for,
Repent of yours in Time.

                               CHAP. V.

         The whole History of the Considering Cap, set forth
        at large for the Benefit of all whom it may concern.

The great Reputation Mrs. Margery acquired by composing Differences in Families, and especially,
between Man and Wife, induced her to cultivate that Part of her System of Morality and Economy,
in order to render it more extensively useful. For this Purpose, she contrived what she called
a Charm for the Passions; which was a considering Cap, almost as large as a Grenadier's, but
of three equal Sides; on the first of which was written, I MAY BE WRONG; on the second, IT
IS FIFTY TO ONE BUT YOU ARE; and on the third, I'LL CONSIDER OF IT. The other Parts on the
out-side, were filled with odd Characters, as unintelligible as the Writings of the old Egyptians;
but within Side there was a Direction for its Use, of the utmost Consequence; for it strictly
enjoined the Possessor to put on the Cap, whenever he found his Passions begin to grow turbulent,
and not to deliver a Word whilst it was on, but with great Coolness and Moderation. As this
Cap was an universal Cure for Wrong-headedness, and prevented numberless Disputes and Quarrels,
it greatly hurt the Trade of the poor Lawyers, but was of the utmost Service to the rest of
the Community. They were bought by Husbands and Wives, who had themselves frequent Occasion
for them, and sometimes lent them to their Children: They were also purchased in large Quantities
by Masters and Servants; by young Folks, who were intent on Matrimony, by Judges, Jurymen,
and even Physicians and Divines; nay, if we may believe History, the Legislators of the Land
did not disdain the Use of them; and we are told, that when any important Debate arose, Cap,
was the Word, and each House looked like a grand Synod of Egyptian Priests. Nor was this Cap
of less Use to Partners in Trade, for with these, as well as with Husband and Wife, if one
was out of Humour, the other threw him the Cap, and he was obliged to put it on, and keep it
till all was quiet. I myself saw thirteen Caps worn at a Time in one Family, which could not
have subsisted an Hour without them; and I was particularly pleased at Sir Humphry Huffum's,
to hear a little Girl, when her Father was out of Humour, ask her Mamma, if she should reach
down the Cap? These Caps, indeed, were of such Utility, that People of Sense never went without
them; and it was common in the Country, when a Booby made his Appearance, and talked Nonsense,
to say, he had no Cap in his Pocket.

                   Advice from FRIAR BACON.

What was Fortunatus's Wishing Cap, when compared to this? That Cap, is said to have conveyed
People instantly from one Place to another; but, as the Change of Place does not change the
Temper and Disposition of the Mind, little Benefit can be expected from it; nor indeed is much
to be hoped from his famous Purse: That Purse, it is said, was never empty, and such a Purse,
may be sometimes convenient; but as Money will not purchase Peace, it is not necessary for
a Man to encumber himself with a great deal of it. Peace and Happiness depend so much upon
the State of a Man's own Mind, and upon the Use of the considering Cap, that it is generally
his own Fault, if he is miserable. One of these Caps will last a Man his whole Life, and is
a Discovery of much greater Importance to the Public than the Philosopher's Stone. Remember
what was said by my Brazen Head, Time is, Time was, Time is past: Now the Time is, therefore
buy the Cap immediately, and make a proper Use of it, and be happy before the Time is past.

Yours ROGER BACON.

                              CHAP. VI.

          How Mrs. MARGERY was taken up for a Witch,
                and what happened on that Occasion.

And so it is true? And they have taken up Mrs. Margery then, and accused her of being a Witch,
only because she was wiser than some of her Neighbours! Mercy upon me! People stuff Children's
Heads with Stories of Ghosts, Faries, Witches, and such Nonsense when they are young, and so
they continue Fools all their Days. The whole World ought to be made acquainted with her Case,
and here it is at their Service.

The Case of Mrs. MARGERY.

At the Meeting, one of the Justices, who knew little of Life, and less of the Law, behaved
very idly; and though no Body was able to prove any Thing against her, asked, who she could
bring to her Character? It is true, continued he, many innocent and worthy People have been
abused and even murdered on this absurd and foolish Supposition; which is a Scandal to our
Religion, to our Laws, to our Nation, and to common Sense; but I will tell you a Story.

There was in the West of England a poor industrious Woman, who laboured under the same evil
Report, which this good Woman is accused of. Every Hog that died with the Murrain, every Cow
that slipt her Calf, she was accountable for: If a Horse had the Staggers, she was supposed
to be in his Head; and whenever the Wind blew a little harder than ordinary, Goody Giles was
playing her Tricks, and riding upon a Broomstick in the Air. These, and a thousand other Phantasies,
too ridiculous to recite, possessed the Pates of the common People: Horse-shoes were nailed
with the Heels upwards, and many Tricks made use of, to mortify the poor Creature; and such
was their Rage against her, that they petitioned Mr. Williams, the Parson of the Parish, not
to let her come to Church; and at last, even insisted upon it: But this he over-ruled, and
allowed the poor old Woman a Nook in one of the Isles to herself, where she muttered over her
Prayers in the best Manner she could. The Parish, thus disconcerted and enraged, withdrew the
small Pittance they allowed for her Support, and would have reduced her to the Necessity of
starving, had she not been still assisted by the benevolent Mr. Williams.

But I hasten to the Sequel of my Story, in which you will find, that the true Source from whence
Witchcraft springs is Poverty, Age, and Ignorance; and that it is impossible for a Woman to
pass for a Witch, unless she is very poor, very old, and lives in a Neighbourhood where the
People are void of common Sense.

Some Time after, a Brother of her's died in London, who, though he would not part with a Farthing
while he lived, at his Death was obliged to leave her five thousand Pounds, that he could not
carry with him.--This altered the Face of Jane's Affairs prodigiously: She was no longer Jane,
alias Joan Giles, the ugly old Witch, but Madam Giles; her old ragged Garb was exchanged for
one that was new and genteel; her greatest Enemies made their Court to her, even the Justice
himself came to wish her Joy; and though several Hogs and Horses died, and the Wind frequently
blew afterwards, yet Madam Giles was never supposed to have a Hand in it; and from hence it
is plain, as I observed before, that a Woman must be very poor, very old, and live in a Neighbourhood,
where the People are very stupid, before she can possibly pass for a Witch.

'Twas a Saying of Mr. Williams, who would sometimes be jocose, and had the Art of making even
Satire agreeable; that if ever Jane deserved the Character of a Witch, it was after this Money
was left her; for that with her five thousand Pounds, she did more Acts of Charity and friendly
Offices, than all the People of Fortune within fifty Miles of the Place.

There is something wonderful in this young Gentleman's Preservation and Success in Life; which
we shall acquaint the Reader of, in the History of his Life and Adventures, which will soon
be published.

                         CHAP. VII. and Last.

                    The true Use of Riches.

The Harmony and Affection that subsisted between this happy Couple, is inexpressible; but Time,
which dissolves the closest Union, after six Years, severed Sir Charles from his Lady; for
being seized with a violent Fever he died, and left her full of Grief, tho' possessed of a
large Fortune.

We forgot to remark, that after her Marriage, Lady Jones (for so we must now call her) ordered
the Chappel to be fitted up, and allowed the Chaplain a considerable Sum out of her own private
Purse, to visit the Sick, and say Prayers every Day to all the People that could attend. She
also gave Mr. Johnson ten Guineas a Year, to preach a Sermon, annually, on the Necessity and
Duties of the marriage State, and on the Decease of Sir Charles; she gave him ten more, to
preach yearly on the Subject of Death; she had put all the Parish into Mourning for the Loss
of her Husband; and to those Men who attended this yearly Service, she gave Harvest Gloves,
to their Wives Shoes and Stockings, and to all the Children little Books and Plumb-cakes: We
must also observe, that she herself wove a Chaplet of Flowers, and before the Service, placed
it on his Grave-stone; and a suitable Psalm was always sung by the Congregation. This brought
many of them to Church, who by degrees learned their Duty, and then came on a more noble Principle.
She also took Care to encourage Matrimony; and in order to induce her Tenants and Neighbours
to enter into that happy State, she always gave the young Couple something towards House-keeping;
and stood Godmother to all their Children, whom she had in Parties, every Sunday Evening, to
teach them their Catechism, and lecture them in Religion and Morality; after which she treated
them with a Supper, gave them such Books as they wanted, and then dispatched them with her
Blessing. Nor did she forget them at her Death, but left each a Legacy, as will be seen among
other charitable Donations when we publish her Will, which we may do in some future Volume.
There is one Request however so singular, that we cannot help taking some Notice of it in this
Place; which is, that of her giving so many Acres of Land to be planted yearly with Potatoes,
for all the Poor of any Parish who would come and fetch them for the Use of their Families;
but if any took them to sell they were deprived of that Privilege ever after. And these Roots
were planted and raised from the Rent arising from a Farm which she had assigned over for that
purpose. In short, she was a Mother to the Poor, a Physician to the Sick, and a Friend to all
who were in Distress. Her Life was the greatest Blessing, and her Death the greatest Calamity
that ever was felt in the Neighbourhood. A Monument, but without Inscription, was erected to
her Memory in the Church-yard, over which the Poor as they pass weep continually, so that the
Stone is ever bathed in Tears.

On this Occasion the following Lines were spoken extempore by a young Gentleman.

  How vain the Tears that fall from you,
  And here supply the Place of Dew?
  How vain to weep the happy Dead,
  Who now to heavenly Realms are fled?
  Repine no more, your Plaints forbear,
  And all prepare to meet them there.

                               The END.

                              APPENDIX.

                       The GOLDEN DREAM; or,
                      the INGENUOUS CONFESSION.

To shew the Depravity of human Nature, and how apt the Mind is to be misled by Trinkets and
false Appearances, Mrs. Two-Shoes does acknowledge, that after she became rich, she had like
to have been too fond of Money; for on seeing her Husband receive a very large Sum, her Heart
went pit pat, pit pat, all the Evening, and she began to think that Guineas were pretty Things.
To suppress this Turbulence of Mind, which was a Symptom of approaching Avarice, she said her
Prayers earlier than usual, and at Night had the following Dream; which I shall relate in her
own Words.

"Methought, as I slept, a Genii stept up to me with a French Commode, which having placed on
my Head, he said, now go and be happy; for from henceforth every Thing you touch shall turn
to Gold. Willing to try the Experiment, I gently touched the Bed-post and Furniture, which
immediately became massy Gold burnished, and of surprizing Brightness. I then touched the Walls
of the House, which assumed the same Appearance, and looked amazingly magnificent. Elated with
this wonderful Gift, I rang hastily for my Maid to carry the joyful News to her Master, who,
as I thought, was then walking in the Garden. Sukey came, but in the Extacy I was in, happening
to touch her Hand, she became instantly an immovable Statue. Go, said I, and call your Master;
but she made no reply, nor could she stir. Upon this I shrieked, and in came my dear Husband,
whom I ran to embrace; when no sooner had I touched him, but he became good for nothing; that
is, good for nothing but his Weight in Gold; and that you know could be nothing, where Gold
was so plenty. At this instant up came another Servant with a Glass of Water, thinking me ill;
this I attempted to swallow, but no sooner did it touch my Mouth, than it became a hard solid
Body, and unfit for drinking. My Distress now grew insupportable! I had destroyed, as I thought,
my dear Husband, and my favourite Servant; and I plainly perceived, that I should die for want
in the midst of so much Wealth. Ah, said I, why did I long for Riches! Having enough already,
why did I covet more? Thus terrified, I began to rave, and beat my Breast, which awaked Sir
Charles, who kindly called me from this State of Inquietude, and composed my Mind."

This Scene I have often considered as a Lesson, instructing me, that a Load of Riches bring,
instead of Felicity, a Load of Troubles; and that the only Source of Happiness is Contentment.
Go, therefore, you who have too much, and give it to those who are in want; so shall you be
happy yourselves, by making others happy. This is a Precept from the Almighty, a Precept which
must be regarded; for The Lord is about your Paths, and about your Bed, and spieth out all
your Ways.

An Anecdote, respecting TOM TWO-SHOES, communicated by a Gentleman, who is now writing the
History of his Life.

It is generally known, that Tom Two-Shoes went to Sea when he was a very little Boy, and very
poor; and that he returned a very great Man, and very rich; but no one knows how he acquired
so much Wealth but myself, and a few Friends, who have perused the Papers from which I am compiling
the History of his Life.

After Tom had been at Sea some Years, he was unfortunately cast away, on that Part of the Coast
of Africa inhabited by the Hottentots. Here he met with a strange Book, which the Hottentots
did not understand, and which gave him some Account of Prester John's Country; and being a
Lad of great Curiosity and Resolution he determined to see it; accordingly he set out on the
Pursuit, attended by a young Lion, which he had tamed and made so fond of him, that he followed
him like a Dog, and obeyed all his Commands; and indeed it was happy for him that he had such
a Companion; for as his Road lay through large Woods and Forests, that were full of wild Beasts
and without Inhabitants, he must have been soon starved or torn in Pieces, had he not been
both fed and protected by this noble Animal.

Tom had provided himself with two Guns, a Sword, and as much Powder and Ball as he could carry;
with these Arms, and such a Companion, it was mighty easy for him to get Food; for the Animals
in these wild and extensive Forests, having never seen the Effects of a Gun, readily ran from
the Lion, who hunted on one Side, to Tom, who hunted on the other, so that they were either
caught by the Lion, or shot by his Master; and it was pleasant enough, after a hunting Match,
and the Meat was dressed, to see how Cheek by Joul they sat down to Dinner.

When they came info the Land of Utopia, he discovered the Statue of a Man created on an open
Plain, which had this Inscription on the Pedestal: On May-day in the Morning, when the Sun
rises, I shall have a Head of Gold. As it was now the latter End of April, he stayed to see
this wonderful Change; and in the mean time, enquiring of a poor Shepherd what was the Reason
of the Statue being erected there, and with that Inscription, he was informed, that it was
set up many Years ago by an Arabian Philosopher, who travelled all the World over in Search
of a real Friend; that he lived with, and was extremely fond of a great Man who inhabited the
next Mountain; but that on some Occasion they quarrelled, and the Philosopher, leaving the
Mountain, retired into the Plain, where he erected this Statue with his own Hands, and soon
after died. To this he added, that all the People for many Leagues round came there every May
Morning, expecting to see the Stone-head turned to Gold.

Tom got up very early on the first of May to behold this amazing Change, and when he came near
the Statue he saw a Number of People, who all ran away from him in the utmost Consternation,
hating never before seen a Lion follow a Man like a Lap-dog. Being thus left alone, he fixed
his Eyes on the Sun, then rising with resplendent Majesty, and afterwards turned to the Statue,
but could see no Change in the Stone.--Surely, says he to himself, there is some mystical Meaning
in this! This Inscription must be an Ænigma, the hidden Meaning of which I will endeavour to
find; for a Philosopher would never expect a Stone to be turned to Gold; accordingly he measured
the Length of the Shadow, which the Statue gave on the Ground by the Sun shining on it, and
marked that particular Part where the Head fell, then getting a Chopness (a Thing like a Spade)
and digging, he discovered a Copper-chest, full of Gold, with this Inscription engraved on
the Lid of it.

                               Thy WIT,
                      Oh Man! whoever thou art,
                      Hath disclos'd the Ænigma,
                   And discover'd the GOLDEN HEAD.
                         Take it and use it,
                       But use it with WISDOM;
                              For know,
                    That GOLD, properly employ'd,
                       May dispense Blessings,
                 And promote the Happiness of Morals;
                         But when hoarded up,
                            Or misapply'd,
             Is but Trash, that makes Mankind miserable.
                               Remember
                      The unprofitable Servant,
                  Who hid his Talent in a Napkin;
                                 And
                         The profligate Son,
                Who squander'd away his Substance and
                         fed with the Swine.
                  As thou hast got the GOLDEN HEAD,
                      Observe the Golden Mean,
                       Be Good and be happy.

This Lesson, coming as it were from the Dead, struck him with such Awe, and Reverence for Piety
and Virtue, that, before he removed the Treasure, he kneeled down, and earnestly and fervently
prayed that he might make a prudent, just and proper Use of it. He then conveyed the Chest
away; but how he got it to England, the Reader will be informed in the History of his Life.
It may not be improper, however, in this Place, to give the Reader some Account of the Philosopher
who hid this Treasure, and took so much Pains to find a true and real Friend to enjoy it. As
Tom had Reason to venerate his Memory, he was very particular in his Enquiry, and had this
Character of him;--that he was a Man well acquainted with Nature and with Trade; that he was
pious, friendly, and of a sweet and affable Disposition. That he had acquired a Fortune by
Commerce, and having no Relations to leave it to, he travelled through Arabia, Persia, India,
Libia and Utopia in search of a real Friend. In this Pursuit he found several with whom he
exchanged good Offices, and that were polite and obliging, but they often flew off for Trifles;
or as soon as he pretended to be in Distress, and requested their Assistance, left him to struggle
with his own Difficulties. So true is that Copy in our Books, which says, Adversity is the
Touchstone of Friendship. At last, however, he met with the Utopian Philosopher, or the wise
Man of the Mountain, as he is called, and thought in him he had found the Friend he wanted;
for though he often pretended to be in Distress, and abandoned to the Frowns of Fortune, this
Man always relieved him, and with such Chearfulness and Sincerity, that concluding he had found
out the only Man to whom he ought to open both his Purse and his Heart, he let him so far into
his Secrets, as to desire his Assistance in hiding a large Sum of Money, which he wanted to
conceal, lest the Prince of the Country, who was absolute, should, by the Advice of his wicked
Minister, put him to Death for his Gold. The two Philosophers met and hid the Money, which
the Stranger, after some Days, went to see, but found it gone. How was he struck to the Heart,
when he found that his Friend, whom he had often tried, and who had relieved him in his Distress,
could not withstand this Temptation, but broke through the sacred Bonds of Friendship, and
turned even a Thief for Gold which he did not want, as he was already very rich. Oh! said he,
what is the Heart of Man made of? Why am I condemned to live among People who have no Sincerity,
and who barter the most sacred Ties of Friendship and Humanity for the Dirt that we tread on?
Had I lost my Gold and found a real Friend, I should have been happy with the Exchange, but
now I am most miserable. After some Time he wiped off his Tears, and being determined not to
be so imposed on, he had Recourse to Cunning and the Arts of Life. He went to his pretended
Friend with a chearful Countenance, told him he had more Gold to hide, and desired him to appoint
a Time when they might go together, and open the Earth to put it into the same Pot; the other,
in Hopes of getting more Wealth, appointed the next Evening. They went together, opened the
Ground, and found the Money they had first placed there, for the artful Wretch, he so much
confided in, had conveyed it again into the Pot, in order to obtain more. Our Philosopher immediately
took the Gold, and putting it into his Pocket, told the other he had now altered his Mind,
and should bury it no more, till he found a Man more worthy of his Confidence. See what People
lose by being dishonest.

Remember this Story, and take Care whom you trust; but don't be covetous, sordid and miserable;
for the Gold we have is but lent us to do Good with. We received all from the Hand of God,
and every Person in Distress hath a just Title to a Portion of it.

The Foresight and Sagacity of Mrs. Margery's Dog calls to my Mind a Circumstance, which happened
when I was a Boy. Some Gentlemen in the Place where I lived had been hunting, and were got
under a great Tree to shelter themselves from a Thunder Storm; when a Dog that always followed
one of the Gentlemen leaped up his Horse several Times, and then ran away and barked. At last,
the Gentlemen all followed to see what he would be at; and they were no sooner gone from the
Tree, but it was shivered in Pieces by Lightning! 'Tis remarkable, that as soon as they came
from the Tree the Dog appeared to be very well satisfied, and barked no more. The Gentleman
after this always regarded the Dog as his Friend, treated him in his Old Age with great Tenderness,
and fed him with Milk as long as he lived.

My old Master Grierson had also a Dog, that ought to be mentioned with Regard; for he used
to set him up as a Pattern of Sagacity and Prudence, not only to his Journeymen, but to the
whole Neighbours. This Dog had been taught a thousand Tricks, and among other Feats he could
dance, tumble, and drink Wine and Punch till he was little better than mad. It happened one
Day, when the Men had made him drunk with Liquor, and he was capering about, that he fell into
a large Vessel of boiling Water. They soon got him out, and he recovered; but he was very much
hurt, and being sensible, that this Accident arose from his losing his Senses by Drinking,
he would never taste any strong Liquor afterwards.--My old Master, on relating this Story,
and shewing the Dog, used to address us thus, Ah, my Friends, had you but half the Sense of
this poor Dog here, you would never get fuddled, and be Fools.

I am, Sir, Your's, &c. W.B.

The BOOKS usually read by the Scholars of Mrs. TWO-SHOES, are these, and are sold at Mr. NEWBERY'S
at the Bible and Sun in St. Paul's Church-yard.

 1. The Christmas-Box, Price 1d.

 2. The History of Giles Gingerbread, 1d.

 3. The New-Year's-Gift, 2d.

 4. The Easter-Gift, 2d.

 5. The Whitsuntide-Gift, 2d.

 6. The Twelfth-Day-Gift, 1s.

 7. The Valentine's-Gift, 6d.

 8. The FAIRING or Golden Toy, 6d.

 9. The Royal Battledore, 2d.

10. The Royal Primer, 3d.

11. The Little Lottery-Book, 3d.

12. The Little Pretty Pocket-Book, 6d.

13. The Infant Tutor, or pretty Little
    Spelling-Book, 6d.

14. The Pretty Book for Children, 6d.

15. Tom Trapwit's Art of being Merry and Wife, 6d.

16. Tom Trip's History of Birds and Beasts, Price 6d.

17. Food for the Mind, or a New Riddle Book, 6d.

18. Fables in Verse and Prose by Æsop, and your old Friend
    Woglog, 6d.

19. The Holy Bible abridged, 6d.

20. The History of the Creation, 6d.

21. A new and noble History of England, 6d.

22. Philosophy for Children, 6d.

23. Philosophy of Tops and Balls, 1s.

24. Pretty Poems for Children 3 Foot high, 6d.

25. Pretty Poems for Children 6 Foot high, 1s.

26. Lilliputian Magazine, or Golden Library, 1s.

27. Short Histories for the Improvement of the Mind, 1s.

28. The New Testament, adapted to the Capacities
    of Children, 1s.

29. The Life of our Blessed SAVIOUR, 1s.

30. The Lives of the Holy Apostles and Evangelists, 1s.

31. The Lives of the Fathers of the Christian Church for
    the first four Centuries, 1s.

32. A Concise Exposition of the Book of Common Prayer,
    with the Lives of its Compilers, 1s.

33. The Museum for Youth, 1s.

34. An Easy Spelling Dictionary for those who would write
    correctly, 1s.

35. A Pocket Dictionary for those who would know the precise
    Meaning of all the Words in the English Language, 3s.

36. A Compendious History of England, 2s.

37. The Present State of Great Britain, 2s.

38. A Little Book of Letters and Cards, to teach young Ladies and
    Gentlemen how to write to their Friends in a polite, easy
    and elegant Manner, 1s.

39. The Gentleman and Lady's Key to Polite Literature; or, A
    Compendious Dictionary of Fabulous History, 2s.

40. The News-Readers Pocket-Book; or, A Military
    Dictionary, 2s.

41. A Curious Collection of Voyages, selected from the Writers of all
    Nations, 10 Vol. Pr. bound 1l.

42. Dr. James's Powders for Fevers, the Small-Pox, Measles,
    Colds, &c. 2s. 6d.

 2. Dr. Hooper's Female Pills, 1s.

 3. Mr. Greenough's Tincture for Teeth, 1s.

 4. Ditto for the Tooth-Ach, 1s.

 5. Stomachic Lozenges for the Heart-burn, Cholic,
    Indigestion, &c. 1s. 6d.

 6. The Balsam of Health, or, (as it is by some called) the
    Balsam of Life, 1s. 6d.

 7. The Original Daffy's Elixir, 1s. 3d.

 8. Dr. Anderson's Scots Pills, 1s.

 9. The Original British Oil, 1s.

10. The Alterative Pills, which are a safe, and certain Cure
    for the King's Evil, and all Scrophulous Complaints, 5s. the Box,
    containing 40 Doses.--See a Dissertation on these Disorders
    sold at the Place above-mentioned, Price 6d.

