Radio operators will be in great demand for flying. Brig.-Gen. A.C. Critchley, the youngest
general officer in the British service, who was a pilot in the Royal Air Force, said that the
future development of the airplane must go hand in hand with the development of wireless communication.
He added that the most difficult thing about flying, especially ocean flying, was to keep the
course in heavy weather. There are no factors which will help a man on "dead" reckoning; and
a shift in wind, unknown to the navigator of a plane, will carry him hundreds of miles from
his objective. The wireless telephone was used to some extent during the war for communication
between the ground and the air; it will be used to a greater extent in the next few years.

Another development which is being used by the navigators flying the Atlantic is the radio
compass. This instrument may be turned toward a land or sea wireless station, of which the
call is known, and it will register the bearing from the flying-boat to this station. It may
be turned upon another station, and this bearing also charted. The intersection of these two
wireless compass bearings gives the position of the ship at sea. The radio compass is dependable
day or night, and is said to be quite as reliable as a sextant or other navigating instruments.

Sailmakers to repair airplane fabrics, to sew new covers for planes--these men must find an
opportunity in flying. There are literally thousands of wings, as yet unmade, which will carry
the air traffic of the future. It matters not whether men or women take up this branch of the
work, it must be done, and done with a conscience. Like all other branches of the mechanical
maintenance of an airplane, careless work on the part of a sailmaker may mean disaster for
the pilot. One of the latest fatalities at a Long Island flying-field was due to careless stitching,
or weakness of fabric, which gave way under great pressure due to high speed. The linen cover
of an upper plane ripped off at a height of one hundred and fifty feet, and the pilot was killed
in the fall of the machine.

Photographers may yet take the place of surveyors, or work hand in hand with them in the making
of aerial maps of the country. The map of the future must be an aerial map, a mosaic map such
as was used by our army headquarters. Nothing can exceed the eye of the camera for accuracy.
Cameras bolted to airplanes, such as were used by our army for reconnaissance, have already
been used for mapping cities. The mapping of the entire country in such a manner is only a
matter of time.

One thing which an aviation mechanic of any sort must bear in mind is that he must do his work
with a conscience. True, he is handling mute metal engines, or dumb wires and struts--but in
his work he holds the life of the pilot in his hand. It is not too much to say that hundreds
of pilots' lives have been saved by the conscientious work of skilled mechanics who realized
the danger of the air.

I have seen mechanics rush from a hangar in a frenzy of excitement and agitation. "That machine
must not go up; it has been repaired, but not inspected!" They have done their work with a
will in the army; they have learned some of the dangers of flying and weak spots which must
be watched. The civilian mechanic must be taught many things.

First of all he must know the value of inspection. Every machine which has gone through a workshop
must be inspected and checked over by a skilled mechanic before a pilot is allowed to fly it.
The ideal thing would be to have legislation licensing the inspectors of aircraft and requiring
that repairs on all machines be examined by a licensed inspector. The inspectors would be under
civil service and would be selected by competitive examination. It may sound fantastic, but
such precautions are as necessary for the preservation of life as legislation on sanitary matters.

In the second place, there should be time limits placed by law covering the period of usefulness
of various parts of an airplane. After fifty hours of flying there should be an inspection
of certain working parts of the engine, certain wires in the body which may be strained by
bad landings, and other wires in the rigging strained by flying in bad weather. New wires are
always sagging and stretching a bit. Wings will "wash out," lose their usefulness by excessive
flying, and must be replaced. There is a great volume of data on these matters which should
be the basis for laws covering mechanical inspection of airplanes, and with which the airplane
mechanic must become familiar.

For the man who would like to work into the piloting of aircraft there is a very good opportunity
by starting with the mechanical side. Too many pilots know next to nothing about the construction
of their machines. When an engine goes bad they know that it won't run--that is all. The pilot
who is a good mechanic is a gifted man in his profession.

There are endless opportunities at flying-fields for mechanics who want to learn to fly. During
the war it became customary to take mechanics up for flying at least once in two weeks on some
fields. It gave the mechanic an interest in his work and an interest in the life of his pilot.
Perhaps nothing stimulated accurate work by a mechanic more than the knowledge that at any
time he might be called upon to ride in one of the planes he had helped make or repair.

Some were taught flying by their officers, and later qualified as pilots. Others went through
as cadets and became pilots after the regular course. The pilot of the future must learn the
mechanical side, and the mechanic should be a good pilot. The two must go hand in hand to make
flying a success.

VI

THE FIRST CROSSING OF THE ATLANTIC

The story of the American triumph in being the first to fly from the New World to the Old World
is a story of careful, painstaking, organized effort on the part of the American navy. With
the flight of Lieut.-Commander Albert C. Read from Rockaway Naval Air Station to Plymouth,
England, nearly four thousand five hundred land miles, the navy brought to fulfilment plans
which had been maturing for two years. Since 1917 there have been naval flying-officers anxious
to cross the ocean by air, and their plans have been cast and recast from time to time. At
first there were many reasons why it was impossible to attempt such a thing while the United
States was at war. Destroyers, busily hunting German submarines, could not be spared for a
feat more spectacular than useful at the time. Pilots and mechanics could not be spared from
the business at hand--training hundreds of seaplane pilots for service overseas.

American efforts to cross the Atlantic by air date back to the spring of 1914 when the flying-boat
America was built to the order of Rodman Wanamaker. She was a large seaplane, a new departure
in her time, and represented the combined effort of a number of the best seaplane designers
in the world. Lieut. John C. Porte, of the Royal Navy, came over from England to be pilot of
the boat, and after her tests in August she was to have made her flight. But Porte was recalled
by his government at the outbreak of war and the project given up.

In the latter half of 1918 the naval seaplane NC-1 was delivered to the Rockaway Naval Air
Station--the largest seaplane ever built on this side of the water. She was originally planned,
with three sister ships, as an aerial submarine-chaser. One hundred and twenty-six feet from
wing-tip to wing-tip, she was equipped with three big Liberty motors--a monster seaplane, ideally
suited to the purpose for which she was designed.

The signing of the armistice interfered with her use as a submarine scout, and naval plans
for crossing the ocean in the air were brought from their pigeonholes. The NC-1 and her sister
ships under construction appeared to have been built for just such a flight. When the war ended,
the navy as a whole, and the naval air service in particular, concentrated attention on the
possibilities of using the NC planes for the flight. One of the first decisions made was to
increase the engine power by adding a fourth engine, and to enlarge the gasolene-tanks for
a long flight.

Early in March of this year it became apparent that the spring or early summer would see several
attempts to cross the ocean by air. On March 19th it was reported from England that the unfortunate
Sopwith machine with its lucky team of Harry G. Hawker and Lieut.-Commander Mackenzie Grieve
had started from England for Newfoundland. At the same time announcement was made that naval
officers had been conferring over their Atlantic flight plans, and that a start would be attempted
some time in May.

As a matter of fact, a great deal of work had been done in secret by Commander John H. Towers,
Lieut.-Commander Albert C. Read, and Lieut.-Commander Patrick N.L. Bellinger. As early as February
24th a conference was held in Washington and a date of May 15th or 16th for the flight from
Newfoundland was set. This date coincided with a full moon over the North Atlantic, and the
machines started May 16th from Trepassey.

There were really only three routes open to pilots anxious to make the first crossing of the
Atlantic. There was the flight straight from Newfoundland to Ireland, a matter of about one
thousand nine hundred miles of straight flying, with the possibility of favoring winds. There
was the Newfoundland-Azores route which the Americans took, and the route from Dakar, French
Senegal, to Pernambuco, Brazil, which French fliers attempted. In addition there was the possibility
of flight from Ireland to Newfoundland, given up by Major Woods, pilot of the Short biplane,
after his forced landing in the Irish Sea.

The great question of a flight straight across the Atlantic was that of fuel consumption. Could
a machine be devised which would carry enough fuel to fly across one thousand nine hundred
miles of water? The Sopwith Aviation Company designed their machine for such a flight, but
sent it out to Newfoundland to catch and take advantage of the prevailing west winds across
the North Atlantic. The story of the six weeks' wait for favorable weather, and the desperate
take-off to beat the American plane, the NC-4, at the Azores, make it appear doubtful whether
such winds are to be relied upon.

The American planes took advantage of those winds in their flight to the Azores, that much
is certain. But they were well protected with destroyers, were not pushing their planes to
the limit, and did not depend upon favoring winds. That the NC-1 and the NC-3 reached the Azores,
but did not make safe landings in the harbor after their long flight, is one of the fortunes
of flying which must not reflect upon the American effort as a whole.

The French route which Lieutenant Fontan, of the French army, tried twice, and on which he
was twice forced to land because of engine trouble, was laid to take advantage of favoring
winds. Across the South Atlantic the winds prevail in the spring of the year from east to west,
contrary to the winds on the northern course. A twenty-mile wind at the back of a flier jumping
the one thousand eight hundred miles across this bit of water would add just twenty miles an
hour to the ground speed of the machine.

Capt. John Alcock and Lieut. Arthur Whitten Brown startled the entire world on June 15, 1919,
with the success of their straight flight from Newfoundland to Ireland, covering 1,960 land
miles in 16 hours and 12 minutes, at an average speed of 120 miles an hour. Not only was this
the longest non-stop flight over land or water on record, but the greatest international sporting
event. As such, though credit for the first flight of the Atlantic belongs to the American
NC-4, it eclipses for daring the flight of the American navy. The Vickers-Vimy plane left St.
John's, Newfoundland, on June 14th, at 4.29 P.M., Greenwich mean time, and landed at Clifden,
Ireland, on June 15th, at 8.40 A.M., Greenwich mean time. The machine was equipped with two
375-horse-power Rolls-Royce Eagle engines, and had a wing span of 67 feet and measured 42 feet
8 inches over all.

The start of the American fliers was made after a series of tests of the seaplanes which covered
a period of almost two months. At the outset it was decided to fly three out of the four NC
planes, on the theory that one of the machines would probably prove to be weaker or less easy
to handle than the others. The NC-2 proved to be the unfortunate sister in this case, and because
of some defects in the arrangement of her engine-bearing struts she was dismantled and left behind.

With the decision to start three planes simultaneously, the navy made it clear that, although
it hoped all three seaplanes might complete the trip, allowance was made for one or two machines
to give up the flight if they found themselves in trouble.

The NC-1, and NC-3, and the NC-4 all proved to be up to expectations, and, with increased engine
power, showed that they could take-off the water with a load of twenty-eight thousand five
hundred pounds. After the necessary tests had been made on Jamaica Bay, Commander Towers said
on May 4th that the start would be made a little after daybreak, May 6th. There remained only
the task of filling their hulls with one thousand eight hundred gallons of gasolene.

Early in the morning of May 5th, while mechanics were pumping gasolene into the tanks of the
NC-1, a spark from an electric pump fell into a pool of gasolene and set fire to her whole
right side. In a moment the heavily "doped" linen wings, with seasoned spruce spars, were a
mass of hot flame. The sailors at work on the machine, with complete disregard of their personal
safety, ran for fire-extinguishers, and with the fire burning around the mouth of the open
tanks, confined it to the right wings of the machine and to the elevators of the NC-4 standing
close by. No one believed that the NC-1 could be made ready in time for the flight twenty-four
hours away.

She was ready the next morning, with fresh wings from the discarded NC-2, but the flight was
postponed on account of a heavy northeast wind, reported all the way to Halifax. The machines
made their start from Rockaway on the morning of May 8th, at ten o'clock, and two of them,
the NC-1, with Lieutenant-Commander Bellinger, and the NC-3, with Commander Towers, arrived
at Halifax after nine hours' flying. The NC-4 proved to be the "lame duck" on the first leg
of the flight, and came down at sea a hundred miles off Chatham, because of overheated bearings.
Some alarm was felt during the night by the failure of destroyers to find her. She appeared
the next morning off the Chatham breakwater, "taxi-ing" under her own power.

While her sister ships, the NC-1 and the NC-3, were flying to Trepassey the NC-4 waited at
Chatham. Even after the repairs were made, it seemed impossible for the NC-4 to catch up with
the other two machines, and she was held stormbound for five days. On May 14th she finally
got away from Chatham, and, with her new engines, made the fastest time over the short course
to Halifax recorded since the beginning of the flight. Her average for the 320 miles was 85
nautical miles an hour, about 20 miles an hour faster time than either of the other two machines
had made.

Four days later she left Halifax for Trepassey in a last-minute effort to catch her sister
planes. It seemed certain that she could not get there in time and would be forced to follow
on the course a day later. Just as she flew into Trepassey Bay, on May 14th, the NC-1 and NC-3
were preparing to take-off. They postponed their start until the next day. In the mean while
repairs were rushed and adjustments made, and she was ready to start the next afternoon, when
all three planes started a little after six o'clock.

From the beginning of the flight from Trepassey the NC-4, thought to be the "lame duck" of
the squadron, ran away from the other two machines. She lost contact with them very quickly
and plowed through the night alone, laying her course by the line of destroyers lying beneath
her. She was about half an hour ahead of the NC-1 at daybreak the next day and within an easy
run of Horta, Fayal.

The half-hour lead gave the NC-4 a chance to get through a fog which was coming up over the
Azores ahead of the other machines. She held a little above it until she thought she was in
the right position. Then she came down through the mist. As it happened, she landed in the
wrong harbor, but picked herself up and found Horta a few minutes later. She landed in Horta
after fifteen hours and eighteen minutes of flying, in which she averaged 78.4 nautical miles
an hour for the flight.

The machine was nearly five hours ahead of the schedule laid down by the Navy Department.

Both the other planes were forced to land at sea, the NC-3 after 1,250 miles of flight--the
longest ever made over water up to that time--and the NC-1 after more than 1,100 miles in the air.

The NC-1 with Bellinger and his crew was picked up on the morning of Saturday, May 17th, by
a Greek steamer, the Ionia, and brought into Horta. Towers with the NC-3 tossed about for nearly
sixty hours at sea and was not picked up until the following Monday, when the public had begun
to fear for his safety.

On Tuesday, May 20th, the NC-4 hopped off for the shortest leg of the flight, 150 miles from
Horta to Ponta Delgada, where the fuel and supplies for the machines were. With favoring winds
at her back, and with the lightest load she had carried, she covered the distance in one hour
and forty-four minutes, an average speed of 86.7 nautical miles an hour, or more than 99 land
miles. This was a new record for the seaplanes on the ocean flight.

Meanwhile Harry G. Hawker and Lieut.-Commander Mackenzie Grieve, the Sopwith team waiting so
long at St. John's for a chance to fly, stimulated in their daring attempt by reports of American
successes at the Azores, took-off on their flight straight across on the afternoon of Sunday,
May 18th. All through that night he flew, when his engine began to give signs of overheating,
due to a clogged water-filter. Early the next morning, about half-way across, Hawker decided
that there was no chance to make the land, and began looking through the fog for a chance for
a safe landing.

By zigzagging on the steamship courses for about two hours, with his engine hot but running
well, he picked up the Danish steamer Mary, and pancaked on the water about two miles ahead
of her. Because the little tramp steamer had no wireless, the world was kept waiting a week,
before word was signaled to land that Hawker and Grieve were safe.

With the Sopwith team out of the race, it became evident that Commander Read and the NC-4 would
actually win the honors for the first flight. On the morning of May 27th he started over his
well-patrolled course of eight hundred miles, and, after a little less than ten hours of flight,
brought his machine into the harbor before Lisbon, Portugal. Americans had crossed the ocean
in the air, and the enthusiastic Portuguese capital turned out to do them every honor.

