Often when she went to "carry in her hose" to Ashford, she left the children at home by themselves.
She had no alternative. They were there in that solitary valley for many hours playing alone.
And to them it was not solitary. It was all that they knew of life, and that all was very pleasant
to them. In spring, they hunted for birds'-nests in the copses, and among the rocks and gray
stones that had fallen from them. In the copses built the blackbirds and thrushes; in the rocks
the firetails; and the gray wagtails in the stones, which were so exactly of their own color,
as to make it difficult to see them. In summer, they gathered flowers and berries, and in the
winter they played at horses, kings, and shops, and sundry other things in the house.

On one of these occasions, a bright afternoon in autumn, the three children had rambled down
the glen, and found a world of amusement in being teams of horses, in making a little mine
at the foot of a tall cliff; and in marching for soldiers, for they had one day--the only time
in their lives--seen some soldiers go through the village of Ashford, when they had gone there
with their mother, for she now and then took them with her when she had something from the
shop to carry besides her bundle of hose. At length they came to the foot of an open hill,
which swelled to a considerable height, with a round and climbable side, on which grew a wilderness
of bushes, amid which lay scattered masses of gray crag. A small winding path went up this,
and they followed it. It was not long, however, before they saw some things which excited their
eager attention. Little David, who was the guide, and assumed to himself much importance as
the protector of his sisters, exclaimed, "See here!" and springing forward, plucked a fine
crimson cluster of the mountain bramble. His sisters, on seeing this, rushed on with like eagerness.
They soon forsook the little winding and craggy footpath, and hurried through sinking masses
of moss and dry grass, from bush to bush, and place to place. They were soon far up above the
valley, and almost every step revealed to them some delightful prize. The clusters of the mountain-bramble,
resembling mulberries, and known only to the inhabitants of the hills, were abundant, and were
rapidly devoured. The dewberry was as eagerly gathered--its large, purple fruit passing with
them for blackberries. In their hands were soon seen posies of the lovely grass of Parnassus,
the mountain cistus, and the bright blue geranium.

Higher and higher the little group ascended in this quest, till the sight of the wide, naked
hills, and the hawks circling round the lofty, tower-like crags over their heads, made them
feel serious and somewhat afraid.

"Where are we?" asked Jane, the elder sister. "Arn't we a long way from hom?"

"Let us go hom," said little Nancy. "I'm afreed here;" clutching hold of Jane's frock.

"Pho, nonsense!" said David; "what are you afreed on? I'll tak care on you, niver fear."

And with this he assumed a bold and defying aspect, and said, "Come along; there are nests
in th' hazzles up yonder."

He began to mount again, but the two girls hung back and said, "Nay, David, dunna go higher;
we are both afreed;" and Jane added, "It's a long wee from hom, I'm sure."

"And those birds screechin' so up there; I darna go up," added little Nancy. They were the
hawks that she meant, which hovered whimpering and screaming about the highest cliffs. David
called them little cowards, but began to descend, and, presently, seeking for berries and flowers
as they descended, they regained the little winding, craggy road, and, while they were calling
to each other, discovered a remarkable echo on the opposite hill side. On this, they shouted
to it, and laughed, and were half frightened when it laughed and shouted again. Little Nancy
said it must be an old man in the inside of the mountain; at which they were all really afraid,
though David put on a big look, and said, "Nonsense! it was nothing at all." But Jane asked
how nothing at all could shout and laugh as it did? and on this little Nancy plucked her again
by the frock, and said in turn, "Oh, dear, let's go hom!"

But at this David gave a wild whoop to frighten them, and when the hill whooped again, and
the sisters began to run, he burst into laughter, and the strange spectral Ha! ha! ha! that
ran along the inside of the hill, as it were, completed their fear, and they stopped their
ears with their hands, and scuttled away down the hill. But now David seized them, and pulling
their hands down from their heads, he said, "See here! what a nice place with the stones sticking
out like seats. Why, it's like a little house; let us stay and play a bit here." It was a little
hollow in the hill side surrounded by projecting stones like an amphitheatre. The sisters were
still afraid, but the sight of this little hollow with its seats of crag had such a charm for
them that they promised David they would stop awhile, if he would promise not to shout and
awake the echo. David readily promised this, and so they sat down. David proposed to keep a
school, and cut a hazel wand from a bush, and began to lord it over his two scholars in a very
pompous manner. The two sisters pretended to be much afraid, and to read very diligently on
pieces of flat stone which they had picked up. And then David became a sergeant, and was drilling
them for soldiers, and stuck pieces of fern into their hair for cockades. And then, soon after,
they were sheep, and he was the shepherd; and he was catching his flock and going to shear
them, and made so much noise that Jane cried, "Hold! there's the echo mocking us."

At this they all were still. But David said, "Pho! never mind the echo; I must shear my sheep:"
but just as he was seizing little Nancy to pretend to shear her with a piece of stick, Jane
cried out, "Look! look! how black it is coming down the valley there! There's going to be a
dreadful starm. Let us hurry hom!"

David and Nancy both looked up, and agreed to run as fast down the hill as they could. But
the next moment the driving storm swept over the hill, and the whole valley was hid in it.
The three children still hurried on, but it became quite dark, and they soon lost the track,
and were tossed about by the wind, so that they had difficulty to keep on their legs. Little
Nancy began to cry, and the three taking hold of each other, endeavored in silence to make
their way homeward. But presently they all stumbled over a large stone, and fell some distance
down the hill. They were not hurt, but much frightened, for they now remembered the precipices,
and were afraid every minute of going over them. They now strove to find the track by going
up again, but they could not find it any where. Sometimes they went upward till they thought
they were quite too far, and then they went downward till they were completely bewildered;
and then, like the Babes in the Wood, "They sate them down and cried."

But ere they had sate long, they heard footsteps, and listened. They certainly heard them and
shouted, but there was no answer. David shouted, "Help! fayther! mother! help!" but there was
no answer. The wind swept fiercely by; the hawks whimpered from the high crags, lost in the
darkness of the storm; and the rain fell, driving along icy cold. Presently there was a gleam
of light through the clouds; the hill side became visible, and through the haze they saw a
tall figure as of an old man ascending the hill. He appeared to carry two loads slung from
his shoulders by a strap; a box hanging before, and a bag hanging at his back. He wound up
the hill slowly and wearily, and presently he stopped, and relieving himself of his load, seated
himself on a piece of crag to rest. Again David shouted, but there still was no answer. The
old man sate as if no shout had been heard--immovable.

"It is a man," said David, "and I will mak him hear;" and with that he shouted once more with
all his might. But the old man made no sign of recognition. He did not even turn his head,
but he took off his hat and began to wipe his brow as if warm with the ascent.

"What can it be?" said David in astonishment. "It is a man, that's sartain. I'll run and see."

"Nay, nay!" shrieked the sisters. "Don't, David, don't! It's perhaps the old man out of the
mountain that's been mocking us. Perhaps," added Jane, "he only comes out in starms and darkness."

"Stuff!" said David, "an echo isn't a man; it's only our own voices. I'll see who it is;" and
away he darted, spite of the poor girls' crying in terror, "Don't; don't, David; oh, don't!"

But David was gone. He was not long in reaching the old man, who sate on his stone breathing
hard, as if out of breath with his ascent, but not appearing to perceive David's approach.
The rain and the wind drove fiercely upon him, but he did not seem to mind it. David was half
afraid to approach close to him, but he called out, "Help! help, mester!" The old man remained
as unconscious of his presence. "Hillo!" cried David again. "Can you tell us the way down,
mester?" There was no answer, and David was beginning to feel a shudder of terror run through
every limb, when the clouds cleared considerably, and he suddenly exclaimed, "Why, it's old
Tobias Turton of top of Edale, and he's as deaf as a door nail!"

In an instant David was at his side; seized his coat to make him aware of his presence, and,
on the old man perceiving him, shouted in his ear, "Which is the way down here, Mester Turton?
Where's the track?"

"Down? Weighs o' the back?" said the old man; "ay, my lad, I was fain to sit down; it does
weigh o' th' back, sure enough."

"Where's the foot-track?" shouted David, again.

"Th' foot-track? Why, what art ta doing here, my lad, in such a starm? Isn't it David Dunster's
lad?"

David nodded. "Why, the track's here--see!" and the old man stamped his foot. "Get down hom,
my lad, as fast as thou can. What dun they do letting thee be upon th' hills in such a dee
as this?"

David nodded his thanks, and turned to descend the track, while the old man, adjusting his
burden again, silently and wearily recommenced his way upward.

David shouted to his sisters as he descended, and they quickly replied. He called to them to
come toward him, as he was on the track, and was afraid to quit it again. They endeavored to
do this; but the darkness was now redoubled, and the wind and rain became more furious than
ever. The two sisters were soon bewildered among the bushes; and David, who kept calling to
them at intervals to direct their course toward him, soon heard them crying bitterly. At this,
he forgot the necessity of keeping the track, and darting toward them, soon found them, by
continuing to call to them, and took their hands to lead them to the track. But they were now
drenched through with the rain, and shivered with cold and fear. David, with a stout heart,
endeavored to cheer them. He told them the track was close by, and that they would soon be
at home. But though the track was not ten yards off, somehow they did not find it. Bushes and
projecting rocks turned them out of their course; and, owing to the confusion caused by the
wind, the darkness, and their terror, they searched in vain for the track. Sometimes they thought
they had found it, and went on a few paces, only to stumble over loose stones, or get entangled
in the bushes.

It was now absolutely becoming night. Their terrors increased greatly. They shouted and cried
aloud, in the hope of making their parents hear them. They felt sure that both father and mother
must be come home; and as sure that they would be hunting for them. But they did not reflect
that their parents could not tell in what direction they had gone. Both father and mother were
come home, and the mother had instantly rushed out to try to find them, on perceiving that
they were not in the house. She had hurried to and fro, and called--not at first supposing
they would be far. But when she heard nothing of them, she ran in, and begged of her husband
to join in the search. But at first David Dunster would do nothing. He was angry at them for
going away from the house, and said he was too tired to go on a wild-goose chase through the
plantations after them. "They are i' th' plantations," said he; "they are sheltering there
somewhere. Let them alone, and they'l come home, with a good long tail behind them."

With this piece of a child's song of sheep, David sat down to his supper, and Betty Dunster
hurried up the valley, shouting, "Children, where are you? David! Jane! Nancy! where are you?"

When she heard nothing of them, she hurried still more wildly up the hill toward the village.
When she arrived there--the distance of a mile --she inquired from house to house, but no one
had seen any thing of them. It was clear they had not been in that direction. An alarm was
thus created in the village; and several young men set out to join Mrs. Dunster in the quest.
They again descended the valley toward Dunster's house, shouting every now and then, and listening.
The night was pitch dark, and the rain fell heavily; but the wind had considerably abated,
and once they thought they heard a faint cry in answer to their call, far down the valley.
They were right: the children had heard the shouting, and had replied to it. But they were
far off. The young men shouted again, but there was no answer; and after shouting once more
without success, they hastened on. When they reached David Dunster's house, they found the
door open, and no one within. They knew that David had set off in quest of the children himself,
and they determined to descend the valley. The distracted mother went with them, crying silently
to herself, and praying inwardly, and every now and then trying to shout. But the young men
raised their strong voices above hers, and made the cliffs echo with their appeals.

Anon a voice answered them down the valley. They ran on as well as the darkness would let them,
and soon found that it was David Dunster, who had been in the plantations on the other side
of the valley; but hearing nothing of the lost children, now joined them. He said he had heard
the cry from the hill side farther down, that answered to their shouts; and he was sure that
it was his boy David's voice. But he had shouted again, and there had been no answer but a
wild scream as of terror, that made his blood run cold.

"O God!" exclaimed the distracted mother, "what can it be! David! David! Jane Nancy!"

There was no answer. The young men bade Betty Dunster to contain herself, and they would find
the children before they went home again. All held on down the valley, and in the direction
whence the voice came. Many times did the young men and the now strongly agitated father shout
and listen. At length they seemed to hear voices of weeping and moaning. They listened--they
were sure they heard a lamenting--it could only be the children. But why then did they not
answer? On struggled the men, and Mrs. Dunster followed wildly after. Now, again, they stood
and shouted, and a kind of terrified scream followed the shout.

"God in heaven!" exclaimed the mother; "what is it? There is something dreadful. My children!
my children! where are you?"

"Be silent, pray do, Mrs. Dunster," said one of the young men, "or we can not catch the sounds
so as to follow them." They again listened, and the wailings of the children were plainly heard.
The whole party pushed forward over stock and stone up the hill. They called again, and there
was a cry of "Here! here! fayther! mother! where are you?"

In a few moments more the whole party had reached the children, who stood drenched with rain,
and trembling violently, under a cliff that gave no shelter, but was exposed especially to
the wind and rain.

"O Christ! my children!" cried the mother, wildly, struggling forward and clasping one in her
arms. "Nancy! Jane! But where is David? David! David! Oh, where is David? Where is your brother?"

The whole party was startled at not seeing the boy, and joined in a simultaneous "Where is
he? where is your brother?"

The two children only wept and trembled more violently, and burst into loud crying.

"Silence!" shouted the father. "Where is David? I tell ye? Is he lost? David, lad, where ar ta?"

All listened, but there was no answer but the renewed crying of the two girls.

"Where is the lad, then?" thundered forth the father with a terrible oath.

The two terrified children cried, "Oh, down there! down there!"

"Down where? Oh, God!" exclaimed one of the young men; "why it's a precipice! Down there!"

At this dreadful intelligence the mother gave a wild shriek, and fell senseless on the ground.
The young men caught her, and dragged her back from the edge of the precipice. The father in
the same moment, furious at what he heard, seized the younger child, that happened to be near
him, and shaking it violently, swore he would fling it down after the lad.

He was angry with the poor children, as if they had caused the destruction of his boy. The
young men seized him, and bade him think what he was about; but the man believing his boy had
fallen down the precipice, was like a madman. He kicked at his wife as she lay on the ground,
as if she were guilty of this calamity by leaving the children at home. He was furious against
the poor girls, as if they had led their brother into danger. In his violent rage he was a
perfect maniac, and the young men pushing him away, cried shame on him. In a while, the desperate
man, torn by a hurricane of passion, sate himself down on a crag, and burst into a tempest
of tears, and struck his head violently with his clenched fists, and cursed himself and every
body. It was a dreadful scene.

Meantime, some of the young men had gone down below the precipice on which the children had
stood, and, feeling among the loose stones, had found the body of poor little David. He was
truly dead!

When he had heard the shout of his father, or of the young men, he had given one loud shout
in answer, and saying, "Come on! never fear now!" sprang forward, and was over the precipice
in the dark, and flew down, and was dashed to pieces. His sisters heard a rush, a faint shriek,
and suddenly stopping, escaped the destruction that poor David had found.

CHAPTER II.--MILL LIFE.

We must pass over the painful and dreadful particulars of that night, and of a long time to
come; the maniacal rage of the father, the shattered heart and feelings of the mother, the
dreadful state of the two remaining children, to whom their brother was one of the most precious
objects in a world which, like theirs, contained so few. One moment to have seen him full of
life, and fun, and bravado, and almost the next a lifeless and battered corpse, was something
too strange and terrible to be soon surmounted. But this was woefully aggravated by the cruel
anger of their father, who continued to regard them as guilty of the death of his favorite
boy. He seemed to take no pleasure in them. He never spoke to them but to scold them. He drank
more deeply than ever, and came home later; and when there, was sullen and morose. When their
mother, who suffered severely, but still plodded on with all her duties, said, "David, they
are thy children too," he would reply, savagely, "Hod thy tongue! What's a pack o' wenches
to my lad?"

What tended to render the miner more hard toward the two girls was a circumstance which would
have awakened a better feeling in a softer father's heart. Nancy, the younger girl, since the
dreadful catastrophe, had seemed to grow gradually dull and defective in her intellect, she
had a slow and somewhat idiotic air and manner. Her mother perceived it, and was struck with
consternation by it. She tried to rouse her, but in vain. She could not perform her ordinary
reading and spelling lessons. She seemed to have forgotten what was already learned. She appeared
to have a difficulty in moving her legs, and carried her hands as if she had suffered a partial
paralysis. Jane, her sister, was dreadfully distressed at it, and she and her mother wept many
bitter tears over her. One day, in the following spring, they took her with them to Ashford,
and consulted the doctor there. On examining her, and hearing fully what had taken place at
the time of the brother's death--the fact of which he well knew, for it, of course, was known
to the whole country round--he shook his head, and said he was afraid they must make up their
minds to a sad case; that the terrors of that night had affected her brain, and that, through
it, the whole nervous system had suffered, and was continuing to suffer the most melancholy
effects. The only thing, he thought, in her favor was her youth; and added, that it might have
a good effect, if they could leave the place where she had undergone such a terrible shock.
But whether they did or not, kindness and soothing attentions to her would do more than any
thing else.

Mrs. Dunster and little Jane returned home with heavy hearts. The doctor's opinion had only
confirmed their fears; for Jane, though but a child, had quickness and affection for her sister
enough to make her comprehend the awful nature of poor Nancy's condition. Mrs. Dunster told
her husband the doctor's words, for she thought they would awaken some tenderness in him toward
the unfortunate child. But he said, "That's just what I expected. Hou'll grow soft, and then
who's to maintain her? Hou mun goo to th' workhouse."

With that he took his maundrel and went off to his work. Instead of softening his nature, this
intelligence seemed only to harden and brutalize it. He drank now more and more. But all that
summer the mother and Jane did all that they could think of to restore the health and mind
of poor Nancy. Every morning, when the father was gone to work, Jane went to a spring up in
the opposite wood, famed for the coldness and sweetness of its waters. On this account the
proprietors of the mills at Cressbrook had put down a large trough there under the spreading
trees, and the people fetched the water even from the village. Hence Jane brought, at many
journeys, this cold, delicious water to bathe her sister in; they then rubbed her warm with
cloths, and gave her new milk for her breakfast. Her lessons were not left off, lest the mind
should sink into fatuity, but were made as easy as possible. Jane continued to talk to her,
and laugh with her, as if nothing was amiss, though she did it with a heavy heart, and she
engaged her to weed and hoe with her in their little garden. She did not dare to lead her far
out into the valley, lest it might excite her memory of the past fearful time, but she gathered
her flowers, and continued to play with her at all their accustomed sports, of building houses
with pieces of pots and stones, and imagining gardens and parks. The anxious mother, when some
weeks were gone by, fancied that there was really some improvement. The cold-bathing seemed
to have strengthened the system: the poor child walked, and bore herself with more freedom
and firmness. She became ardently fond of being with her sister, and attentive to her directions.
But there was a dull cloud over her intellect, and a vacancy in her eyes and features. She
was quiet, easily pleased, but seemed to have little volition of her own. Mrs. Dunster thought
if they could but get her away from that spot, it might rouse her mind from its sleep. But,
perhaps, the sleep was better than the awaking might be; however, the removal came, though
in a more awful way than was looked for. The miner, who had continued to drink more and more,
and seemed to have almost estranged himself from his home, staying away in his drinking bouts
for a week or more together, was one day blasting a rock in the mine, and being half-stupefied
with beer, did not take care to get out of the way of the explosion, was struck with a piece
of the flying stone, and killed on the spot.

The poor widow and her children were now obliged to remove from under Wardlow-Cop. The place
had been a sad one to her; the death of her husband, though he had been latterly far from a
good one, and had left her with the children in deep poverty, was a fresh source of severe
grief to her. Her religious mind was struck down with a weight of melancholy by the reflection
of the life he had led, and the sudden way in which he had been summoned into eternity. When
she looked forward, what a prospect was there for her children! It was impossible for her to
maintain them from her small earnings, and as to Nancy, would she ever be able to earn her
own bread, and protect herself in the world?

It was amid such reflections that Mrs. Dunster quitted this deep, solitary, and, to her, fatal
valley, and took up her abode in the village of Cressbrook. Here she had one small room, and
by her own labors, and some aid from the parish, she managed to support herself and the children.
For seven years she continued her laborious life, assisted by the labor of the two daughters,
who also seamed stockings, and in the evenings were instructed by her. Her girls were now thirteen
and fifteen years of age: Jane was a tall and very pretty girl of her years; she was active,
industrious, and sweet-tempered: her constant affection for poor Nancy was something as admirable
as it was singular. Nancy had now confirmed good health, but it had affected her mother to
perceive that, since the catastrophe of her brother's death, and the cruel treatment of her
father at that time, she had never grown in any degree as she ought; she was short, stout,
and of a pale and very plain countenance. It could not be now said that she was deficient in
mind, but she was slow in its operations. She displayed, indeed, a more than ordinary depth
of reflection, and a shrewdness of observation, but the evidences of-this came forth in a very
quiet way, and were observable only to her mother and sister. To all besides she was extremely
reserved: she was timid to excess, and shrunk from public notice into the society of her mother
and sister. There was a feeling abroad in the neighborhood that she was "not quite right,"
but the few who were more discerning, shook their heads, and observed, "Right, she was not,
poor thing, but it was not want of sense; she had more of that than most."

And such was the opinion of her mother and sister. They perceived that Nancy had received a
shock of which she must bear the effects through life. Circumstances might bring her feeble
but sensitive nerves much misery. She required to be guarded and sheltered from the rudenesses
of the world, and the mother trembled to think how much she might be exposed to them. But in
every thing that related to sound judgment, they knew that she surpassed not only them, but
any of their acquaintance. If any difficulty had to be decided, it was Nancy who pondered on
it, and, perhaps, at some moment when least expected, pronounced an opinion that might be taken
as confidently as an oracle.

The affection of the two sisters was something beyond the ties of this world. Jane had watched
and attended to her from the time of her constitutional injury with a love that never seemed
to know a moment's weariness or change; and the affection which Nancy evinced for her was equally
intense and affecting. She seemed to hang on her society for her very life. Jane felt this,
and vowed that they would never quit one another. The mother sighed. How many things, she thought,
might tear asunder that beautiful resolve.

But now they were of an age to obtain work in the mill. Indeed, Jane could have had employment
there long before, but she would not quit her sister till she could go with her--and now there
they went. The proprietor, who knew the case familiarly, so ordered it that the two sisters
should work near each other; and that poor Nancy should be as little exposed to the rudeness
of the work-people as possible. But at first so slow and awkward were Nancy's endeavors, and
such an effect had it on her frame, that it was feared she must give it up. This would have
been a terrible calamity; and the tears of the two sisters and the benevolence of the employer
enabled Nancy to pass through this severe ordeal. In a while she acquired sufficient dexterity,
and thenceforward went through her work with great accuracy and perseverance. As far as any
intercourse with the workpeople was concerned, she might be said to be dumb. Scarcely ever
did she exchange a word with any one, but she returned kind nods and smiles; and every morning
and evening, and at dinner-time, the two sisters might be seen going to and fro, side by side--Jane
often talking with some of them; the little, odd-looking sister walking silent and listening.

Five more years, and Jane was a young woman. Amid her companions, who were few of them above
the middle size, she had a tall and striking appearance. Her father had been a remarkably tall
and strong man, and she possessed something of his stature, though none of his irritable disposition.
She was extremely pretty, of a blooming, fresh complexion, and graceful form. She was remarkable
for the sweetness of her expression, which was the index of her disposition. By her side still
went that odd, broad-built, but still pale and little sister. Jane was extremely admired by
the young men of the neighborhood, and had already many offers, but she listened to none. "Where
I go must Nancy go," she said to herself, "and of whom can I be sure?"

Of Nancy no one took notice. Her pale, somewhat large features, her thoughtful, silent look,
and her short, stout figure, gave you an idea of a dwarf, though she could not strictly be
called one. No one would think of Nancy as a wife--where Jane went she must go; the two clung
together with one heart and soul. The blow which deprived them of their brother seemed to bind
them inseparably together.

Mrs. Dunster, besides her seaming, at which, in truth, she earned a miserable sum, had now
for some years been the post-woman from the village to the Bull's Head, where the mail, going
on to Tideswell, left the letter-bag. Thither and back, wet or dry, summer or winter, she went
every day, the year round. With her earnings, and those of the girls, the world went as well
with them as the world goes on the average with the poor; and she kept a small, neat cottage.
Cramps and rheumatisms she began to feel sensibly from so much exposure to rain and cold; but
the never-varying and firm affection of her two children was a balm in her cup which made her
contented with every thing else.

When Jane was about two-and-twenty, poor Mrs. Dunster, seized with rheumatic fever, died. On
her death-bed, she said to Jane, "Thou will never desert poor Nancy; and that's my comfort.
God has been good to me. After all my trouble, he has given me this faith, that, come weal,
come woe, so long as thou has a home, Nancy will never want one. God bless thee for it! God
bless you both; and he will bless you!" So saying, Betty Dunster breathed her last.

The events immediately following her death did not seem to bear out her dying faith; for the
two poor girls were obliged to give up their cottage. There was a want of cottages. Not half
of the work-people could be entertained in this village; they went to and fro for many miles.
Jane and Nancy were now obliged to do the same. Their cottage was wanted for an overlooker--and
they removed to Tideswell, three miles off. They had thus six miles a day to walk, besides
standing at their work; but they were young, and had companions. In Tideswell they were more
cheerful. They had a snug little cottage; were near a meeting; and found friends. They did
not complain. Here, again Jane Dunster attracted great attention, and a young, thriving grocer
paid his addresses to her. It was an offer that made Jane take time to reflect. Every one said
it was an opportunity not to be neglected: but Jane weighed in her mind, "Will he keep faith
in my compact with Nancy?" Though her admirer made every vow on the subject, Jane paused and
determined to take the opinion of Nancy. Nancy thought for a day, and then said, "Dearest sister,
I don't feel easy; I fear that from some cause it would not do in the end."

Jane, from that moment, gave up the idea of the connection. There might be those who would
suspect Nancy of a selfish bias in the advice she gave; but Jane knew that no such feeling
influenced her pure soul. For one long year the two sisters traversed the hills between Cressbrook
and Tideswell. But they had companions, and it was pleasant in the summer months. But winter
came, and then it was a severe trial. To rise in the dark, and traverse those wild and bleak
hills; to go through snow and drizzle, and face the sharpest winds in winter, was no trifling
matter. Before winter was over, the two young women began seriously to revolve the chances
of a nearer residence, or a change of employ. There were not few who blamed Jane excessively
for the folly of refusing the last good offer. There were even more than one who, in the hearing
of Nancy, blamed her. Nancy was thoughtful, agitated, and wept. "If I can, dear sister," she
said, "have advised you to your injury, how shall I forgive myself? What shall become of me?"

But Jane clasped her sister to her heart, and said, "No! no! dearest sister, you are not to
blame. I feel you are right; let us wait, and we shall see!"

CHAPTER III.--THE COURTSHIP AND ANOTHER SHIP.

One evening, as the two sisters were hastening along the road through the woods on their way
homeward, a young farmer drove up in his spring-cart, cast a look at them, stopped, and said,
"Young women, if you are going my way. I shall be glad of your company. You are quite welcome
to ride."

The sisters looked at each other. "Dunna be afreed," said the young farmer; "my name's James
Cheshire. I'm well known in these parts; you may trust yersens wi' me, if it's agreeable."

To Jane's surprise, Nancy said, "No, sir, we are not afraid; we are much obliged to you."

The young farmer helped them up into the cart, and away they drove.

"I'm afraid we shall crowd you," said Jane.

"Not a bit of it," replied the young farmer. "There's room for three bigger nor us on this
seat, and I'm no ways tedious."

The sisters saw nothing odd in his use of the word "tedious," as strangers would have done
they knew it merely meant "not at all particular." They were soon in active talk. As he had
told them who he was, he asked them in their turn if they worked at the mills there. They replied
in the affirmative, and the young man said,

"I thought so. I've seen you sometimes going along together. I noticed you because you seemed
so sisterly like, and you are sisters, I reckon."

They said "Yes."

"I've a good spanking horse, you seen," said James Cheshire. "I shall get over th' ground rayther
faster nor you done a-foot, eh? My word, though, it must be nation cold on these bleak hills
i' winter."

The sisters assented, and thanked the young farmer for taking them up.

"We are rather late," said they, "for we looked in on a friend, and the rest of the mill-hands
were gone on."

"Well," said the young farmer, "never mind that. I fancy Bess, my mare here, can go a little
faster nor they can. We shall very likely be at Tidser as soon as they are."

"But you are not going to Tidser," said Jane, "your farm is just before us there."

"Yay, I'm going to Tidser though. I've a bit of business to do there before I go hom."

On drove the farmer at what he called a spanking rate; presently they saw the young mill-people
on the road before them.

"There are your companions," said James Cheshire; "we shall cut past them like a flash of lightning."

"Oh," exclaimed Jane Dunster, "what will they say at seeing us riding here?" and she blushed
brightly.

"Say?" said the young farmer, smiling, "never mind what they'll say; depend upon it, they'd
like to be here theirsens."

James Cheshire cracked his whip. The horse flew along. The party of the young mill-hands turned
round, and on seeing Jane and Nancy in the cart, uttered exclamations of surprise.

"My word, though!" said Mary Smedley, a fresh buxom lass, somewhat inclined to stoutness.

"Well, if ever!" cried smart little Hannah Bowyer.

"Nay, then, what next?" said Tetty Wilton, a tall, thin girl of very good looks.

The two sisters nodded and smiled to their companions; Jane still blushing rosily, but Nancy
sitting as pale and as gravely as if they were going on some solemn business.

The only notice the farmer took was to turn with a broad, smiling face, and shout to them,
"Wouldn't you like to be here too?"

"Ay, take us up," shouted a number of voices together; but the farmer cracked his whip, and
giving them a nod and a dozen smiles in one, said, "I can't stay. Ask the next farmer that
comes up."

With this they drove on; the young farmer very merry and full of talk. They were soon by the
side of his farm. "There's a flock of sheep on the turnips there," he said, proudly, "they're
not to be beaten on this side Ashbourne. And there are some black oxen, going for the night
to the straw-yard. Jolly fellows, those, eh? But I reckon you don't understand much of farming
stock?"

"No," said Jane, and was again surprised at Nancy adding, "I wish we did. I think a farmer's
life must be the very happiest of any."

"You think so?" said the farmer, turning and looking at her earnestly, and evidently with some
wonder. "You are right," said he. "You little ones are knowing ones. You are right: it's the
life for a king."

They were at the village. "Pray stop," said Jane, "and let us get down. I would not for the
world go up the village thus. It would make such a talk!"

"Talk! who cares for talk?" said the farmer; "won't the youngsters we left on the road talk?"

"Quite enough," said Jane.

"And are you afraid of talk?" said the farmer to Nancy.

"I'm not afraid of it when I don't provoke it willfully," said Nancy; "but we are poor girls,
and can't afford to lose even the good word of our acquaintance. You've been very kind in taking
us up on the road; but to drive us to our door would cause such wonder as would perhaps make
us wish we had not been obliged to you."

"Blame me, if you arn't right again!" said the young farmer, thoughtfully. "These are scandal-loving
times, and th' neebors might plague you. That's a deep head of yourn, though--Nancy, I think
your sister caw'd you. Well, here I stop then."

He jumped down, and helped them out.

"If you will drive on first," said Jane, "we will walk on after, and we are greatly obliged
to you."

"Nay," said the young man, "I shall turn again here."

"But you've business."

"Oh! my business was to drive you here--that's all."

James Cheshire was mounting his cart, when Nancy stepped up, and said, "Excuse me, sir, but
you'll meet the mill-people on your return, and it will make them talk all the more, as you
have driven us past your farm. Have you no business that you can do in Tidser, sir?"

"Gad! but thou'rt right again! Ay, I'll go on!" and with a crack of his whip, and a "Good night!"
he whirled into the village before them.

No sooner was he gone than Nancy, pressing her sister's arm to her side, said, "There's the
right man at last, dear Jane."

"What!" said Jane, yet blushing deeply at the same time, and her heart beating quicker against
her side. "Whatever are you talking of, Nancy? That young farmer fall in love with a mill-girl?"

"He's done it," said Nancy; "I see it in him--I feel it in him. And I feel, too, that he is
true and stanch as steel."

Jane was silent. They walked on in silence. Jane's own heart responded to what Nancy had said;
she thought again and again on what he said. "I have seen you sometimes;" "I noticed you because
you seemed so sisterly." "He must have a good heart," thought Jane; "but then he can never
think of a poor mill-girl like me."

The next morning they had to undergo plenty of raillery from their companions. We will pass
that over. For several days, as they passed to and fro, they saw nothing of the young farmer.
But one evening, as they were again alone, having staid at the same acquaintance's as before,
the young farmer popped his head over a stone wall, and said, "Good evening to you, young women."
He was soon over the wall, and walked on with them to the end of the town. On the Sunday at
the chapel Jane saw Nancy's grave face fixed on some object steadily, and, looking in the same
direction, was startled to see James Cheshire. Again her heart beat pit-a-pat, and she thought,
"Can he really be thinking of me?"

The moment chapel was over, James Cheshire was gone, stopping to speak to no one. Nancy again
pressed the arm of Jane to her side, as they walked home, and said, "I was not wrong." Jane
only replied by returning her affectionate pressure.

Some days after, as Nancy Dunster was coming out of a shop in the evening, after their return
home from the mill, James Cheshire suddenly put his hand on her shoulder, and, on her turning,
shook her hand cordially, and said, "Come along with me a bit. I must have a little talk with you."

Nancy consented without remark or hesitation. James Cheshire walked on quickly till they came
near the fine old church which strikes travelers as so superior to the place in which it is
located, when he slackened his pace, and taking Nancy's hand, began in a most friendly manner
to tell her how much he liked her and her sister. That, to make a short matter of it, as was
his way, he had made up his mind that the woman of all others in the world that would suit
him for a wife was her sister. "But before I said so to her, I thought I would say so to you,
Nancy, for you are so sensible, I'm sure you will say what is best for us all."

Nancy manifested no surprise, but said calmly, "You are a well-to-do farmer, Mr. Cheshire.
You have friends of property; my sister, and--"

"Ay, and a mill-girl; I know all that. I've thought it all over, and so far you are right again,
my little one. But just hear what I've got to say. I'm no fool, though I say it. I've an eye
in my head and a head on my shoulders, eh?"

Nancy smiled

"Well now, it s not any mill-girl--mind you, it's not any mill-girl; no, nor perhaps another
in the kingdom, that would do for me. I don't think mill-girls are in the main cut out for
farmers' wives, any more than farmers' wives are fit for mill-girls; but, you see, I've got
a notion that your sister is not only a very farrantly lass, but that she's one that has particular
good sense, though not so deep as you, Nancy, neither. Well, I've a notion she can turn her
hand to any thing, and that she's a heart to do it when it's a duty. Isn't that so, eh? And
if it is so, then Jane Dunster's the lass for me; that is, if it's quite agreeable."

Nancy pressed James Cheshire's hand, and said. "You are very kind."

"Not a bit of it," said James.

"Well," continued Nancy; "but I would have you to consider what your friends will say, and
whether you will not be made unhappy by them."

"Why, as to that," said James Cheshire, interrupting her, "mark me, Miss Dunster. I don't ask
my friends for any thing. I can farm my own farm; buy my own cattle; drive my spring-cart,
without any advice or assistance of theirs; and therefore I don't think I shall ask their advice
in the matter of a wife, eh? No, no, on that score I'm made up. My name's Independent, and,
at a word, the only living thing I mean to ask advice of is yourself. If you, Miss Dunster,
approve of the match, it's settled, as far as I'm concerned."

"Then so far," said Nancy, "as you and my sister are concerned, without reference to worldly
circumstances, I approve it with all my heart. I believe you to be as good and honest as I
know my sister to be. Oh, Mr. Cheshire! she is one of ten thousand."

"Well, I was sure of it," said the young farmer; "and so now you must tell your sister all
about it; and if all's right, chalk me a white chalk inside of my gate as you go past i' th'
morning, and to-morrow evening I'll come up and see you."

Here the two parted with a cordial shake of the hand. The novel signal of an accepted love
was duly discovered by James Cheshire on his gate-post, when he issued forth at day-break,
and that evening he was sitting at tea with Jane and Nancy in the little cottage, having brought
in his cart a basket of eggs, apples, fresh butter, and a pile of the richest pikelets (crumpets),
country pikelets, very different to town-made ones, for tea.

We need not follow out the courtship of James Cheshire and Jane Dunster. It was cordial and
happy. James insisted that both the sisters should give immediate notice to quit the mill-work,
to spare themselves the cold and severe walks which the winter now occasioned them. The sisters
had improved their education in their evenings. They were far better read and informed than
most farmers' daughters. They had been, since they came to Tideswell, teachers in the Sunday-school.
There was comparatively little to be learned in a farm-house for the wife in winter, and James
Cheshire therefore proposed to the sisters to go for three months to Manchester into a wholesale
house, to learn as much as they could of the plain sewing and cutting out of household linen.
The person in question made up all sorts of household linen, sheets, pillow-cases, shirts,
and other things; in fact, a great variety of articles. Through an old acquaintance he got
them introduced there, avowedly to prepare them for housekeeping. It was a sensible step, and
answered well. At spring, to cut short opposition from his own relatives, which began to show
itself, for these things did not fail to be talked of, James Cheshire got a license, and proceeding
to Manchester, was then and there married, and came home with his wife and sister.

The talk and gossip which this wedding made all round the country, was no little; but the parties
themselves were well satisfied with their mutual choice, and were happy. As the spring advanced,
the duties of the household grew upon Mrs. Cheshire. She had to learn the art of cheese-making,
butter-making, of all that relates to poultry, calves, and household management. But in these
matters she had the aid of an old servant, who had done all this for Mr. Cheshire, since he
began farming. She took a great liking to her mistress, and showed her with hearty good-will
how every thing was done; and as Jane took a deep interest in it, she rapidly made herself
mistress of the management of the house, as well as of the house itself. She did not disdain,
herself, to take a hand at the churn, that she might be familiar with the whole process of
butter-making, and all the signs by which the process is conducted to a successful issue. It
was soon seen that no farmer's wife could produce a firmer, fresher, sweeter pound of butter.
It was neither swelted by too hasty churning, nor spoiled, as is too often the case, by the
buttermilk or by water being left in it, for want of well kneading and pressing. It was deliciously
sweet, because the cream was carefully put in the cleanest vessels and well attended to. Mrs.
Cheshire, too, might daily be seen kneeling by the side of the cheese-pan, separating the curd,
taking off the whey, filling the cheese-vat with the curd, and putting the cheese herself into
press. Her cheese-chamber displayed as fine a set of well-salted, well-colored, well-turned
and regular cheeses as ever issued from that or any other farm-house.

James Cheshire was proud of his wife: and Jane herself found a most excellent helper in Nancy.
Nancy took particularly to housekeeping; saw that all the rooms were exquisitely clean; that
every thing was in nice repair; that not only the master and mistress, but the servants had
their food prepared in a wholesome and attractive manner. The eggs she stored up; and as fruit
came into season, had it collected for market, and for a judicious household use. She made
the tea and coffee morning and evening, and did every thing but preside at the table. There
was not a farm-house for twenty miles round that wore an air of so much brightness and evident
good management as that Of James Cheshire. For Nancy, from the first moment of their acquaintance,
he had conceived a most profound respect. In all cases that required counsel, though he consulted
freely with his wife, he would never decide till they had had Nancy's opinion and sanction.

And James Cheshire prospered. But, spite of this, he did not escape the persecution from his
relations that Nancy had foreseen. On all hands he found coldness. None of them called on him.
They felt scandalized at his evening himself, as they called it, to a mill-girl. He was taunted,
when they met at market, with having been caught with a pretty face; and told that they thought
he had had more sense than to marry a dressed doll with a witch by her side.

At first James Cheshire replied with a careless waggery, "The pretty face makes capital butter
though, eh? The dressed doll turns out a tolerable dairy, eh? Better," added James, "than a
good many can, that I know, who have neither pretty faces, nor have much taste in dressing
to crack of."

The allusion to Nancy's dwarfish plainness was what peculiarly provoked James Cheshire. He
might have laughed at the criticisms on his wife, though the envious neighbors' wives did say
that it was the old servant and not Mrs. Cheshire who produced such fine butter and cheese;
for wherever she appeared, spite of envy and detraction, her lovely person and quiet good sense,
and the growing rumor of her good management, did not fail to produce a due impression. And
James had prepared to laugh it off; but it would not do. He found himself getting every now
and then angry and unsettled by it. A coarse jest on Nancy at any time threw him into a desperate
fit of indignation. The more the superior merit of his wife was known, the more seemed to increase
the envy and venom of some of his relatives. He saw, too, that it had an effect on his wife.
She was often sad, and sometimes in tears.

One day when this occurred, James Cheshire said, as they sat at tea, "I've made up my mind.
Peace in this life is a jewel. Better is a dinner of herbs with peace, than a stalled ox with
strife. Well now, I'm determined to have peace. Peace and luv," said he, looking affectionately
at his wife and Nancy, "peace and luv, by God's blessing, have settled down on this house;
but there are stings here and stings there, when we go out of doors. We must not only have
peace and luv in the house, but peace all round it. So I've made up my mind. I'm for America!"

"For America!" exclaimed Jane. "Surely you can not be in earnest."

"I never was more in earnest in my life," said James Cheshire. "It is true I do very well on
this farm here, though it's a cowdish situation; but from all I can learn I can do much better
in America. I can there farm a much better farm of my own. We can have a much finer climate
than this Peak country, and our countrymen still about us. Now, I want to know what makes a
man's native land pleasant to him?--the kindness of his relations and friends. But then, if
a man's relation are not kind?--if they get a conceit into them, that because they are relations,
they are to choose a man's wife for him, and sting him and snort at him because he has a will
of his own?--why, then, I say, God send a good big herring-pool between me and such relations!
My relations, by way of showing their natural affection, spit spite and bitterness. You, dear
wife and sister, have none of yourn to spite you. In the house we have peace and luv. Let us
take the peace and luv, and leave the bitterness behind."

There was a deep silence.

"It is a serious proposal," at length said Jane, with tears in her eyes.

"What says Nancy?" asked James.

"It is a serious proposal," said Nancy, "but it is good. I feel it so."

There was another deep silence; and James Cheshire said, "Then it is decided."

"Think of it," said Jane, earnestly--"think well of it."

"I have thought of it long and well, my dear. There are some of these chaps that call me relation
that I shall not keep my hands off, if I stay among them--and I fain would. But for the present
I will say no more; but," added he, rising and bringing a book from his desk, "here is a book
by one Morris Birkbeck--read it, both of you, and then let me know your minds."

The sisters read. On the following Lady-day James Cheshire had turned over his farm advantageously
to another, and he, his wife, Nancy, and the old servant, Mary Spendlove, all embarked at Liverpool,
and transferred themselves to the United States, and then to the State of Illinois. Five-and-twenty
years have rolled over since that day. We could tell a long and curious story of the fortunes
of James Cheshire and his family--from the days when, half repenting of his emigration and
his purchase, he found himself in a rough country, amid rough and spiteful squatters, and lay
for months with a brace of pistols under his pillow, and a great sword by his bedside for fear
of robbery and murder. But enough, that at this moment, James Cheshire, in a fine cultivated
country, sees his ample estate cultivated by his sons, while as colonel and magistrate he dispenses
the law and receives the respectful homage of the neighborhood. Nancy Dunster, now styled Mrs.
Dunster, the Mother in Israel--the promoter of schools and the counselor of old and young--still
lives. Years have improved rather than deteriorated her short and stout exterior. The long
exercise of wise thoughts and the play of benevolent feelings, have given even a sacred beauty
to her homely features. The dwarf has disappeared, and there remains instead, a grave but venerable
matron--honored like a queen.

MOORISH DOMESTIC LIFE.

At the threshold of the door, leading from the court-yard to the house, the daughters of Sidi
Mahmoud received us with cordial welcome. They are two very beautiful girls. The eldest, who
is about fourteen years of age, particularly interested me. There is an expression in her soft,
intelligent, eyes which shows that she feels the oppression of captivity. Her features are
not those of a regular beauty; but the grace which marks all her movements, the soul breathing
animation which lights up her countenance, and the alternate blush and pallor which overspread
her delicate cheek, seem to mark the fair Zuleica for a heroine of romance.

While I gazed on her, I thought she looked like a personification of her lovely namesake, the
glorious creation of Byron's muse. Her beautiful chestnut hair was unfortunately (in compliance
with the custom of the country) tinged with a reddish dye. It was combed to the nape of the
neck, and a red woolen band was closely twisted round it, so that the most beautiful adornment
of a female head was converted into a long, stiff rouleau, which either dangled down her back,
or was hidden in the folds of her dress. On her head she wore a small, closely-fitting fez.
Her sister, a pretty, smiling girl of ten years of age, had her hair arranged in the same manner,
and she wore the same sort of fez. She was wrapped in a shawl of a clear sea-green hue, which
was draped round her figure very gracefully, but entirely concealed her arms. Her full trowsers
of rose-colored calico descended nearly to her ankles. The costume of the elder sister was
marked by greater elegance. Her shawl was dark red, but of less size and thinner texture than
that worn by her sister. After we had been a few minutes together, we became quite familiar
friends, and the young ladies permitted me to have a minute inspection of their dresses. They
conducted us to their drawing-room, or, as they called it, their salon. This apartment, like
all the rooms in the house, is exceedingly small; and on my expressing some surprise at its
limited dimensions, the elder sister replied in her broken French, "Mauresques pas tener salons
pas jolies comme toi Français;" by which she meant to say that their houses or saloons are
not so fine as those of the Europeans; for they call all Europeans, indiscriminately, French.
There was but little furniture in the drawing-room.

Over the middle part of the floor was spread a very handsome Turkey carpet; and along the sides
of the apartment were laid several carpets of various kinds and patterns. In one corner of
the room there was a looking-lass in a miserable-looking frame, and beside it a loaded musket.
Whether this weapon be destined for the defense of the elegant mirror or of the lovely Zuleica,
I pretend not to say.

Having observed a telescope fixed at the window, I expressed some surprise. Zuleica, who converses
very intelligibly in what she calls lingua franca (a jargon principally composed of French
words), informed me that this telescope constitutes her principal source of amusement, and
that she is almost continually occupied in looking through it, to watch the arrival of her
friends, and the movements of the steamers in the harbor. The walls of the apartment were simply
whitewashed, and the window and doors were arched as a precaution against accidents in the
earthquakes so frequent in this country. The only decorations on the walls were two little
frames, containing passages from the Koran.

Among the other articles of furniture contained in this apartment, I must not omit to mention
a small table, on which lay some sheets of paper (having Arabic characters inscribed on them)
a book, and an inkstand.

When I entered the room, the young ladies brought a straw stool, and requested me to sit down
on it, while they themselves squatted on the floor. A white muslin curtain hung over a doorway,
which led to the sleeping apartment of the father and mother. Nothing could be more plain than
the furniture of this apartment. Two small French iron bedsteads indicated, it is true, great
advancement in civilization; and between these bedsteads a piece of carpet covered the rough
red tiles with which the floor was paved. There was neither washing-stand nor toilet-table;
but, indeed, the apartment was so small that there was no room for them. I was next conducted
to the boudoir, where coffee, pomegranates, melons, and sweetmeats were served. To decline
taking any thing that is offered is regarded as an affront by the Mohammedans, so I was compelled
to receive in my bare hand an immensely large slice of some kind of sweet cake, spread over
with a thick jelly.

The collation being ended, the young ladies conducted me to their own sleeping-room. Here we
found a slave at work. She was a negress, for whom I was told Sidi Mahmoud had paid 600 francs.
I suppose this negress saw something irresistibly droll in my appearance, for as soon as I
appeared she burst into an immoderate fit of laughter, and it was some time ere she recovered
her composure.

Little Zuleica very good-naturedly opened several trunks to gratify me with the sight of some
of her best dresses. She drew forth a number of garments of various descriptions, all composed
of rich and beautiful materials. When I say that she had at least twenty elegant tunics of
silk or gauze, and several others richly embroidered with gold, I do not overrate the number.
I expressed my astonishment at the number and variety of the garments, of which I imagined
I had seen the last; but Zuleica turned to me with an arch smile, which seemed to say she had
a still greater surprise in store for me. Then diving into the lowest depths of one of the
trunks, she drew forth a complete bridal costume. It consisted of a robe or tunic of rich red
damask silk, embroidered with gold, a gold girdle, a splendid caftan, loose trowsers of silk,
and a vail of white gauze, several yards in length, and sprigged with gold. I was also shown
several valuable jeweled ornaments, destined to be worn with this splendid costume.

Seeing the bridal dress thus ready prepared I conjectured that Zuleica was betrothed, and I
ventured to ask her when she was to be married. At this question she blushed and looked confused;
then, after a little hesitation, she replied, "Quand trouver mari."...

Among Zuleica's ornaments were several set with splendid diamonds and pearls. My hostess, after
having examined and admired them, asked whether the jewels were all real. Zuleica looked a
little offended at this question, and answered proudly, "Mauresques jamais tenir ce que n'est
pas vrai." We were greatly amused by the interest and curiosity with which these Moorish girls
examined every thing we wore, and even asked the price of any article which particularly pleased
them. No part of my dress escaped the scrutinizing eyes of Zuleica. She was particularly charmed
with a small handkerchief I wore round my throat. I took it off and, requested her to accept
it as a token of my remembrance.

The eldest sister had so engaged my attention that the younger one appeared to think I had
neglected her, and she timidly requested that, as I had seen all Zuleica's beautiful things,
I would look at some of hers also. Accordingly, she began showing me her dolls, meanwhile relating
to me in her lingua franca the history of each. These dolls were attired in the costumes of
Moorish ladies, and little Gumara assured me that the dresses were all her own making. After
I had admired them, and complimented Gumara on her taste, she told me with an air of mystery
that she had yet one thing more to show. So saying, she produced a doll with a huge black beard
and fierce countenance, and dressed completely in imitation of the Sultan. While I was engaged
in admiring it, Sidi Mahmoud entered. He had heard that I could speak Italian, and he came
to have a little conversation with me about Italy, a country with which he is acquainted, and
in which he has himself traveled much. The father's unexpected appearance dismayed the young
ladies, who colored deeply while they endeavored to hide the miniature effigy of the Sultan.
I afterward learned that Zuleica and her sister are brought up under such rigorous restraint,
that even the possession of a doll in male attire is a thing prohibited.--Leaves from a Lady's
Diary.

       *       *       *       *       *

The works of men of genius alone, where great faults are united with great beauties, afford
proper matter for criticism. Genius is always executive, bold, and daring; which at the same
time that it commands attention, is sure to provoke criticism. It is the regular, cold, and
timid composer who escapes censure and deserves praise.--Sir Joshua Reynolds.

[From Household Words.]

THE RAILWAY STATION.

    They judge not well, who deem that once among us
    A Spirit moved that now from earth has fled;
    Who say that at the busy sounds which throng us,
    Its shining wings forevermore have sped.

    Not all the turmoil of the Age of Iron
    Can scare that Spirit hence; like some sweet bird
    That loud harsh voices in its cage environ,
    It sings above them all, and will be heard!

    Not, for the noise of axes or of hammers,
    Will that sweet bird forsake her chosen nest;
    Her warblings pierce through all those deafening clamors
    But surer to their echoes in the breast.

    And not the Past alone, with all its guerdon
    Of twilight sounds and shadows, bids them rise;
    But soft, above the noontide heat and burden
    Of the stern present, float those melodies.

    Not with the baron bold, the minstrel tender,
    Not with the ringing sound of shield and lance,
    Not with the Field of Gold in all its splendor,
    Died out the generous flame of old Romance.

    Still, on a nobler strife than tilt or tourney,
    Rides forth the errant knight, with brow elate;
    Still patient pilgrims take, in hope, their journey;
    Still meek and cloistered spirits "stand and wait."

    Still hath the living, moving world around us,
    Its legends, fair with honor, bright with truth;
    Still, as in tales that in our childhood bound us,
    Love holds the fond traditions of its youth.

    We need not linger o'er the fading traces
    Of lost divinities; or seek to hold
    Their serious converse 'mid Earth's green waste-places,
    Or by her lonely fountains, as of old:

    For, far remote from Nature's fair creations,
    Within the busy mart, the crowded street,
    With sudden, sweet, unlooked-for revelations
    Of a bright presence we may chance to meet;

    E'en now, beside a restless tide's commotion,
    I stand and hear, in broken music, swell
    Above the ebb and flow of Life's great ocean,
    An under-song of greeting and farewell.

    For here are meetings: moments that inherit
    The hopes and wishes, that through months and years
    Have held such anxious converse with the spirit,
    That now its joy can only speak in tears;

    And here are partings: hands that soon must sever,
    Yet clasp the firmer; heart, that unto heart,
    Was ne'er so closely bound before, nor ever
    So near the other as when now they part;

    And here Time holds his steady pace unbroken,
    For all that crowds within his narrow scope;
    For all the language, uttered and unspoken,
    That will return when Memory comforts Hope!

    One short and hurried moment, and forever
    Flies, like a dream, its sweetness and its pain,
    And, for the hearts that love, the hands that sever,
    Who knows what meetings are in store again?

    They who are left, unto their homes returning,
    With musing step, trace o'er each by-gone scene;
    And they upon their journey--doth no yearning,
    No backward glance, revert to what hath been?

    Yes! for awhile, perchance, a tear-drop starting,
    Dims the bright scenes that greet the eye and mind;
    But here--as ever in life's cup of parting--
    Theirs is the bitterness who stay behind!

    So in life's sternest, last farewell, may waken
    A yearning thought, a backward glance be thrown
    By them who leave: but oh! how blest the token,
    To those who stay behind when THEY are gone!

THE SICK MAN'S PRAYER

             Come, soft sleep!
    Bid thy balm my hot eyes meet--
    Of the long night's heavy stillness,
    Of the loud clock's ceaseless beat,
    Of the weary thought of illness,
    Of the room's oppressive heat--
    Steep me in oblivion deep,
    That my weary, weary brain,
    May have rest from all its pain;
    Come, oh blessedness again,--
             Come, soft sleep!

             Come, soft sleep!
    Let this weary tossing end,
    Let my anguished watch be ceasing,
    Yet no dreams thy steps attend,
    When thou bring'st from pain releasing.
    Fancies wild to rest may lend
    Sense of waking misery deep,
    Calm as death, oh, on me sink,
    That my brain may quiet drink,
    And neither feel, nor know, nor think.
             Come, soft sleep!

                          W. C. BENNETT.

[From the Autobiography of Leigh Hunt, unpublished.]

SOPHISTRY OF ANGLERS.--IZAAK WALTON.

Many brave and good men have been anglers, as well as many men of a different description;
but their goodness would have been complete, and their bravery of a more generous sort, had
they possessed self-denial enough to look the argument in the face, and abstained from procuring
themselves pleasure at the expense of a needless infliction. The charge is not answered by
the favorite retorts about effeminacy, God's providence, neighbors' faults, and doing "no worse."
They are simple beggings of the question. I am not aware that anglers, or sportsmen in general,
are braver than the ordinary run of mankind. Sure I am that a great fuss is made if they hurt
their fingers; much more if they lie gasping, like fish, on the ground. I am equally sure that
many a man who would not hurt a fly is as brave as they are; and as to the reference to God's
providence, it is an edge-tool that might have been turned against themselves by any body who
chose to pitch them into the river, or knock out their brains. They may lament, if they please,
that they should be forced to think of pain and evil at all; but the lamentation would not
be very magnanimous under any circumstances; and it is idle, considering that the manifest
ordination and progress of things demand that such thoughts be encountered. The question still
returns: Why do they seek amusement in sufferings which are unnecessary and avoidable? and
till they honestly and thoroughly answer this question, they must be content to be looked upon
as disingenuous reasoners, who are determined to retain a selfish pleasure.

As to old Izaak Walton, who is put forward as a substitute for argument on this question, and
whose sole merits consisted in his having a taste for nature and his being a respectable citizen,
the trumping him up into an authority and a kind of saint is a burlesque. He was a writer of
conventionalities; who, having comfortably feathered his nest, as he thought, both in this
world and in the world to come, concluded he had nothing more to do than to amuse himself by
putting worms on a hook, and fish into his stomach, and so go to heaven, chuckling and singing
psalms. There would be something in such a man and in his book, offensive to a real piety,
if that piety did not regard whatever has happened in the world, great and small, with an eye
that makes the best of what is perplexing, and trusts to eventual good out of the worst. Walton
was not the hearty and thorough advocate of nature he is supposed to have been. There would
have been something to say for him on that score, had he looked upon the sum of evil as a thing
not to be diminished. But he shared the opinions of the most commonplace believers in sin and
trouble, and only congratulated himself on being exempt from their consequences. The overweening
old man found himself comfortably off somehow; and it is good that he did. It is a comfort
to all of us, wise or foolish. But to reverence him is a jest. You might as well make a god
of an otter. Mr. Wordsworth, because of the servitor manners of Walton and his biographies
of divines (all anglers), wrote an idle line about his "meekness" and his "heavenly memory."
When this is quoted by the gentle brethren, it will be as well if they add to it another passage
from the same poet, which returns to the only point at issue, and upsets the old gentleman
altogether Mr. Wordsworth's admonition to us is,

    "Never to link our pastime, or our pride,
    With suffering to the meanest thing that lives."

It was formerly thought effeminate not to hunt Jews; then not to roast heretics; then not to
bait bears and bulls; then not to fight cocks, and to throw sticks at them. All these evidences
of manhood became gradually looked upon as no such evidences at all, but things fit only for
manhood to renounce; yet the battles of Waterloo and of Sobraon have been won, and Englishmen
are not a jot the less brave all over the world. Probably they are braver, that is to say,
more deliberately brave, more serenely valiant; also more merciful to the helpless, and that
is the crown of valor.

It was during my infancy, if I am not mistaken, that there lived at Hampstead (a very unfit
place for such a resident), a man whose name I suppress lest there should be possessors of
it surviving, and who was a famous cock-fighter. He was rich and idle, and therefore had no
bounds to set to the unhappy passions that raged within him. It is related of this man, that,
having lost a bet on a favorite bird, he tied the noble animal to a spit in his kitchen before
the fire, and notwithstanding the screams of the sufferer and the indignant cries of the beholders,
whose interference he wildly resisted with the poker, actually persisted in keeping it there
burning, till he fell down in his fury and died.

Let us hope he was mad. What, indeed, is more probable? It is always a great good, when the
crimes of a fellow-creature can be traced to madness; to some fault of the temperament or organization;
some "jangle of the sweet bells;" some overbalance in the desired equipoise of the faculties,
originating, perhaps in accident or misfortune. It does not subject us the more to their results.
On the contrary, it sets us on our guard against them. And, meantime, it diminishes one of
the saddest, most injurious, and most preposterous notions of human ignorance--the belief in
the wickedness of our kind.

But I have said enough of these barbarous customs.

[From Household Words.]

GLOBES, AND HOW THEY ARE MADE.

One of the most remarkable of self-educated men, James Ferguson, when a poor agricultural laborer,
constructed a globe. A friend had made him a present of "Gordon's Geographical Grammar," which,
he says, "at that time was to me a great treasure. There is no figure of a globe in it, although
it contains a tolerable description of the globes and their use. From this description I made
a globe in three weeks, at my father's, having turned the ball thereof out of a piece of wood;
which ball I covered with paper, and delineated a map of the world upon it, made the meridian
ring and horizon of wood, covered them with paper, and graduated them; and was happy to find
that by my globe (which was the first I ever saw) I could solve the problems."

"But," he adds, "this was not likely to afford me bread."

In a few years this ingenious man discovered the conditions upon which he could earn his bread,
by a skill which did not suffer under the competition of united labor. He had made also a wooden
clock. He carried about his globe and his clock, and "began to pick up some money about the
country" by cleaning clocks. He became a skilled clock-cleaner. For six-and-twenty years afterward
he earned his bread as an artist. He then became a scientific lecturer, and in connection with
his pursuits, was also a globe maker. His name may be seen upon old globes, associated with
that of Senex. The demand for globes must have been then very small, but Ferguson had learned
that cheapness is produced by labor-saving contrivances. A pretty instrument for graduating
lines upon the meridian ring, once belonging to Ferguson, is in use at this hour in the manufactory
of Messrs. Malby and Son. The poor lad "who made a globe in three weeks" finally won the honors
and riches that were due to his genius and industry. But he would never have earned a living
in the continuance of his first attempt to turn a ball out of a piece of wood, cover it with
paper, and draw a map of the world upon it. The nicest application of his individual skill,
and the most careful employment of his scientific knowledge, would have been wasted upon those
portions of the work in which the continued application of common routine labor is the most
efficient instrument of production.

Let us contrast the successive steps of Ferguson's first experiment in globe-making with the
processes of a globe manufactory.

A globe is not made of "a ball turned out of a piece of wood." If a solid ball of large dimensions
were so turned, it would be too heavy for ordinary use. Erasmus said of one of the books of
Thomas Aquinas, "No man can carry it about, much less get it into his head;" and so would it
be said of a solid globe. If it were made of hollow wood, it would warp and split at the junction
of its parts. A globe is made of paper and plaster. It is a beautiful combination of solidity
and lightness. It is perfectly balanced upon its axis. It retains its form under every variety
of temperature. Time affects it less than most other works of art. It is as durable as a Scagliola
column.

A globe may not, at first sight, appear a cheap production. It is not, of necessity, a low-priced
production, and yet it is essentially cheap; for nearly all the principles of manufacture that
are conditions of cheapness are exhibited in the various stages of its construction. There
are only four globe-makers in England, and one in Scotland. The annual sale of globes is only
about a thousand pair. The price of a pair of globes varies from six shillings to fifty pounds.
But from the smallest 2-inch, to the largest 36-inch globe, a systematic process is carried
on at every step of its formation. We select this illustration of cheapness as a contrast,
in relation to price and extent of demand, to the lucifer match. But it is, at the same time,
a parallel in principle. If a globe were not made upon a principle involving the scientific
combination of skilled labor, it would be a mere article of luxury from its excessive costliness.
It is now a most useful instrument in education. For educational purposes the most inexpensive
globe is as valuable as that of the highest price. All that properly belongs to the excellence
of the instrument is found in combination with the commonest stained wood frame, as perfectly
as with the most highly-finished frame of rose-wood or mahogany.

The mould, if we may so express it, of a globe is turned out of a piece of wood. This sphere
need not be mathematically accurate. It is for rough work, and flaws and cracks are of little
consequence. This wooden ball has an axis, a piece of iron wire at each pole. And here we may
remark, that, at every stage of the process, the revolution of a sphere upon its axis, under
the hands of the workman, is the one great principle which renders every operation one of comparative
ease and simplicity. The labor would be enormously multiplied if the same class of operations
had to be performed upon a cube. The solid mould, then, of the embryo globe is placed on its
axis in a wooden frame. In a very short time a boy will form a pasteboard globe upon its surface.
He first covers it entirely with strips of strong paper, thoroughly wet, which are in a tub
of water at his side. The slight inequalities produced by the overlapping of the strips are
immaterial. The saturated paper is not suffered to dry; but is immediately covered over with
a layer of pasted paper, also cut in long narrow slips. A third layer of similarly pasted paper--brown
paper and white being used alternately--is applied, and then, a fourth, a fifth, and a sixth.
Here the pasting process ends for globes of moderate size. For the large ones it is carried
farther. This wet pasteboard ball has now to be dried--placed upon its axis in a rack. If we
were determined to follow the progress of this individual ball through all its stages, we should
have to wait a fortnight before it advanced another step. But as the large factory of Messrs.
Malby and Son has many scores of globes all rolling onward to perfection, we shall be quite
satisfied to witness the next operation performed upon a pasteboard sphere that began to exist
some weeks earlier, and is now hard to the core.

The wooden ball, with its solid paper covering, is placed on its axis. A sharp cutting instrument,
fixed on a bench, is brought into contact with the surface of the sphere, which is made to
revolve. In less time than we write, the pasteboard ball is cut in half. There is no adhesion
to the wooden mould, for the first coating of paper was simply wetted. Two bowls of thick card
now lie before us, with a small hole in each, made by the axis of the wooden ball. But a junction
is very soon effected. Within every globe there is a piece of wood--we may liken it to a round
ruler--of the exact length of the inner surface of the sphere from pole to pole. A thick wire
runs through this wood, and originally projected some two or three inches at each end. This
stick is placed upright in a vice. The semi-globe is nailed to one end of the stick, upon which
it rests, when the wire is passed through its center. It is now reversed, and the edges of
the card rapidly covered with glue. The edges of the other semi-globe are instantly brought
into contact, the other end of the wire passing through its center in the same way, and a similar
nailing to the stick taking place. We have now a paper globe, with its own axis, which will
be its companion for the whole term of its existence.

The paper globe is next placed on its axis in a frame, of which one side is a semi-circular
piece of metal; the horizon of a globe cut in half would show its form. A tub of white composition--a
compound of whiting, glue, and oil is on the bench. The workman dips his hand into this "gruel
thick and slab," and rapidly applies it to the paper sphere with tolerable evenness: but, as
it revolves, the semi-circle of metal clears off the superfluous portions. The ball of paper
is now a ball of plaster externally. Time again enters largely into the manufacture. The first
coating must thoroughly dry before the next is applied; and so again till the process has been
repeated four or five times. Thus, when we visit a globe workshop, we are at first surprised
at the number of white balls, from three inches' diameter to three feet, which occupy a large
space. They are all steadily advancing toward completion. They can not be hurriedly dried.
The duration of their quiescent state must depend upon the degrees of the thermometer in the
ordinary atmosphere. They cost little. They consume nothing beyond a small amount of rent.
As they advance to the dignity of perfect spheres, increased pains are taken in the application
of the plaster. At last they are polished. Their surface is as hard and as fine as ivory. But,
beautiful as they are, they may, like many other beautiful things, want a due equipoise. They
must be perfectly balanced. They must move upon their poles with the utmost exactness. A few
shot, let in here and there, correct all irregularities. And now the paper and plaster sphere
is to be endued with intelligence.

What may be called the artistical portion of globe-making here commences. In the manufactory
we are describing there are two skilled workers, who may take their rank as artists, but whose
skill is limited, and at the same time perfected, by the uniformity of their operations. One
of these artists, a young woman, who has been familiar with the business from her earliest
years, takes the polished globe in her lap, for the purpose of marking it with lines of direction
for covering it with engraved strips, which will ultimately form a perfect map. The inspection
of a finished globe will show that the larger divisions of longitude are expressed by lines
drawn from pole to pole, and those of latitude by a series of concentric rings. The polished
plaster has to be covered with similar lines. These lines are struck with great rapidity, and
with mathematical truth, by an instrument called a "beam compass," in the use of which this
workwoman is most expert. The sphere is now ready for receiving the map, which is engraved
in fourteen distinct pieces. The arctic and antarctic poles form two circular pieces, from
which the lines of longitude radiate. These having been fitted and pasted, one of the remaining
twelve pieces, containing 30 degrees, is also pasted on the sphere, in the precise space where
the lines of longitude have been previously marked its lines of latitude corresponding in a
similar manner. The paper upon which these portions of the earth's surface are engraved is
thin and extremely tough. It is rubbed down with the greatest care, through all the stages
of this pasting process. We have at length a globe covered with a plain map, so perfectly joined
that every line and every letter fit together as if they had been engraved in one piece--which,
of course, would be absolutely impossible for the purpose of covering a ball.

The artist who thus covers the globe, called a paster, is also a colorer. This is, of necessity,
a work which can not be carried on with any division of labor. It is not so with the coloring
of an atlas. A map passes under many hands in the coloring. A series of children, each using
one color, produce in combination a map colored in all its parts, with the rapidity and precision
of a machine. But a globe must be colored by one hand. It is curious to observe the colorer
working without a pattern. By long experience the artist knows how the various boundaries are
to be defined, with pink continents, and blue islands, and the green oceans, connecting the
most distant regions. To a contemplative mind, how many thoughts must go along with the work,
as he covers Europe with indications of populous cities, and has little to do with Africa and
Australia but to mark the coast lines; as year after year he has to make some variation in
the features of the great American continent, which indicates the march of the human family
over once trackless deserts, while the memorable places of the ancient world undergo few changes
but those of name. And then, as he is finishing a globe for the cabin of some "great ammirall,"
may he not think that, in some frozen nook of the Arctic Sea, the friendly Esquimaux may come
to gaze upon his work, and seeing how petty a spot England is upon the ball, wonder what illimitable
riches nature spontaneously produces in that favored region, some of which is periodically
scattered by her ships through those dreary climes in the search for some unknown road amidst
everlasting icebergs, while he would gladly find a short track to the sunny south. And then,
perhaps, higher thoughts may come into his mind; and as this toy of a world grows under his
fingers, and as he twists it around upon its material axis, he may think of the great artificer
of the universe, having the feeling, if not knowing the words of the poet:

    "In ambient air this ponderous ball HE hung."

Contemplative, or not, the colorer steadily pursues his uniform labor, and the sphere is at
length fully colored.

The globe has now to be varnished with a preparation technically known as "white hard," to
which some softening matter is added to prevent the varnish cracking. This is a secret which
globe-makers preserve. Four coats of varnish complete the work.

And next the ball has to be mounted. We have already mentioned an instrument by which the brass
meridian ring is accurately graduated; that is, marked with lines representing 360 degrees,
with corresponding numerals. Of whatever size the ring is, an index-hand, connected with the
graduating instrument, shows the exact spot where the degree is to be marked with a graver.
The operation is comparatively rapid; but for the largest globes it involves considerable expense.
After great trouble, the ingenious men whose manufactory we are describing, have succeeded
in producing cast-iron rings, with the degrees and figures perfectly distinct; and these applied
to 36-inch globes, instead of the engraved meridians, make a difference of ten guineas in their
price. For furniture they are not so beautiful; for use they are quite as valuable. There is
only one other process which requires great nicety. The axis of the globe revolves on the meridian
ring, and of course it is absolutely necessary that the poles should be exactly parallel. This
is effected by a little machine which drills each extremity at one and the same instant; and
the operation is termed poleing the meridian.

The mounting of the globe--the completion of a pair of globes--is now handed over to the cabinet-maker.
The cost of the material and the elaboration of its workmanship determine the price.

Before we conclude, we would say a few words as to the limited nature of the demand for globes.
Our imperfect description of this manufacture will have shown that experience, and constant
application of ingenuity, have succeeded in reducing to the lowest amount the labor employed
in the production of globes. The whole population of English globe-makers does not exceed thirty
or forty men, women, and boys. Globes are thus produced at the lowest rate of cheapness, as
regards the number of laborers, and with very moderate profits to the manufacturer, on account
of the smallness of his returns. The durability of globes is one great cause of the limitation
of the demand. Changes of fashion, or caprices of taste, as to the mounting, new geographical
discoveries, and modern information as to the position and nomenclature of the stars, may displace
a few old globes annually, which then find their way from brokers' shops into a class somewhat
below that of their original purchasers. But the pair of globes generally maintain for years
their original position in the school-room or the library. They are rarely injured, and suffer
very slight decay. The new purchasers represent that portion of society which is seeking after
knowledge, or desires to manifest some pretension to intellectual tastes. The number of globes
annually sold represents to a certain extent the advance of education. But if the labor-saving
expedients did not exist in the manufacture the cost would be much higher, and the purchasers
greatly reduced in number. The contrivances by which comparative cheapness is produced arise
out of the necessity of contending against the durability of the article by encouraging a new
demand. If these did not exist, the supply would outrun the demand; the price of the article
would less and less repay the labor expended in its production; the manufacture of globes would
cease till the old globes were worn out, and the few rich and scientific purchasers had again
raised up a market.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BODY.--Among the strange compliments which superstition pays to the Creator, is a scorn
and contempt for the fleshy investiture which he has bestowed on us, at least among Christians;
for the Pagans were far more pious in this respect; and Mohammed agreed with them in doing
justice to the beauty and dignity of the human frame. It is quite edifying, in the Arabian
Nights, to read the thanks that are so often and so rapturously given to the Supreme Being
for his bestowal of such charms on his creatures. Nor was a greater than Mahomet of a nature
to undervalue the earthly temples of gentle and loving spirits. Ascetic mistakes have ever
originated in want of heartiness or of heart; in consciousness of defect, or vulgarity of nature,
or in spiritual pride. A well-balanced body and soul never, we may be sure, gave way to it.
What an extraordinary flattery of the Deity to say, "Lord! I thank thee for this jewel of a
soul which I possess; but what a miserable casket thou hast given me to put it in!"--Leigh Hunt.

                            HANNAH MORE.

If Lettice had made her reflections, and had started upon her new undertaking with a heart
yearning with the desire to perform its duties well, Mrs. Melwyn had not been without undergoing
a somewhat similar process upon her side, and this was her course of thought:

"She had at first felt the utmost dislike to the plan.

"She had, in the course of her life, seen so much discomfort and dissatisfaction arise upon
both sides from this sort of connection, that she had taken up quite a prejudice against any
thing of the sort.

"It was a very great pity," she often said to herself, "that so it should be, but the case
was almost universal. If it could be otherwise, what desirable connections might be formed
in a world such as the present! Such numbers of women of all ages, and all degrees of mental
qualifications, find themselves suddenly without resource, through the accident of early death
in the case of the professions, or of disaster in commercial life; and so many others, through
disease or advanced age, or the still more cruel stroke of death, find themselves stranded,
lonely, and deserted, and languishing for a fireside friend. What comfortable, beneficial unions
might be brought about in such cases, one should think; and yet why did they never or seldom
turn out well?

"Faults there must be. Where did they lie?--On both sides," answered her understanding. "Not
surely alone upon the side of the new comer--the paid one, consequently the obliged one, consequently
the only one of the parties who had duties that she was pledged to perform, and which, it is
true, she too often very imperfectly performed--but also upon the other. She, it is true, is
pledged to nothing but the providing meat, lodging, and salary; but that will not dispense
her from obligations as a Christian, and as a member of the universal sisterhood, which are
not quite so easily discharged.

"It must double the difficulty to the new comer," thought Mrs. Melwyn, "the being treated so
carelessly as she too often is. How hard it must be to perform duties such as hers, if they
are not performed in love! and how impossible it must be to love in such a case--unless we
meet with love. Even to be treated with consideration and kindness will not suffice upon the
one side, nor the most scrupulous endeavor to discharge duty upon the other--people must try
to love.

"How soothing to a poor, deserted orphan to be taken to the heart! How sweet to forlorn old
age to find a fresh object of affection! Ah, but then these sort of people seem often so disagreeable,
do one's best, one can not love or like them! But why do they seem so disagreeable? Partly
because people will overlook nothing--have no mutual indulgence in relations which require
so much. If one's child has little ways one does not quite like, who thinks of hating her for
it? If one's mother is a little provoking and tedious under the oppressive weight of years
or sickness, who thinks of making a great hardship of it? But if the poor, humble friend is
only a little awkward or ungainly, she is odious; and if the poor, deserted mother, or widow,
wife, or aged suffering creature is a little irritable or tedious, she is such a tyrant!

"Oh how I wish!...

"Well, Catherine is a sensible, well-judging creature, and she assures me this Miss Arnold
is a remarkably sweet-tempered, affectionate, modest, judicious girl. Why should I not try
to make such a being love me? Why should we not be very happy together? There is Randall, to
be sure, sets herself extremely against it; but, as Catherine says, 'Is Randall to be mistress
in this family, or am I?' It is come quite to that point. And then it will be a great thing
to have somebody between me and Randall. She will not be so necessary to me then, whatever
she may be to the general; and when she makes herself so disagreeable, if this young lady is
as comfortable to me as Catherine says she will be, I really shall not so much care.

"Then," continuing her meditations, which, though I put down in black and white, were thought,
not spoken, "then Catherine says she is so greatly to be pitied, and is so exemplary; and she
said, in her darling, coaxing way, 'dear mamma, it will give you so much pleasure to make the
poor thing a little amends for all her hardships, and if poor papa is a little cross at times,
it will be quite an interest to you to contrive to make up for it. She will be quite a daughter
to you, and, in one respect, you will have more pleasure in making her happy than even in your
own loving daughter, because one is dear from our natural affections, and the other will be
so from generous beneficence; and though natural affection is such a sweet, precious, inestimable
thing, generous beneficence is yet nobler, and brings us still nearer to God.'

"If I could make her love me!--and with such an affectionate temper why should I not? She wants
a parent, I want a child. If I study her happiness disinterestedly, kindly, truly, she can
not help loving me; but I will not even think of myself, I will try to study her good, her
well-being; and I will let the love for me come or not as it may, and God will help me. He
always does help me--when I have the courage to dare to forget myself, and leave the issues
of things to His Providence."

Such were the dispositions upon both sides with which the two met. But the best resolutions
win no battle. They are part, and a very serious part of every undertaking, but they are far
from being all. We are so imperfect ourselves, and we have to do with such imperfect beings,
that evils and difficulties, unexpected, are sure to arise in our communication with others,
even when both sides meet with the very best intentions; therefore, whoever intends to carry
out such good intentions, and make a right piece of work of it, must calculate upon these things,
just as the mechanic is obliged to make a large allowance for unavoidable obstructions in carrying
out any of his theories into action and reality--into useful, every-day working order.

In due time, a fly from the railway--one of those dirty, hired carriages which are the disgrace
of England--deposited Miss Arnold and her luggage at the door of General Melwyn's handsome
mansion of the Hazels, and in all due form and order she was introduced into the dining-room.
It was between six and seven o'clock in the evening when she entered the very handsomely furnished
apartment, where, over a half-and-half sort of fire--it having been rather a warm February
day--sat the general and his lady.

Lettice was tired, heated, and red with the jumbling of the railway, the bother at the station,
and the knocking about in the very uneasy carriage in which she had come up; and she felt in
that disagreeable sort of journey disorder of toilet, which makes people feel and look so awkward.
But she put the best face upon the matter, and entering, made a very respectful courtesy to
Mrs. Melwyn, who met her, holding out her hand; and with her face and appearance Lettice felt
charmed in a moment. Mrs. Melwyn, who did not want penetration, saw that in Lettice, spite
of present disadvantages, which she was sure she should like very much. Not so the general.
He was a perfect fool of the eye, as military men are too apt to be. Whatever was awkward or
ill-dressed, was perfectly abhorrent to him; and he took a dislike to "the creature" the moment
he cast his eyes upon her.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed but an unpromising beginning.

The heart of poor Lettice sunk within her in a way she was little accustomed to, as the general,
in a very pettish mood, stirred the fire, and said. "When are we to have dinner, Mrs. Melwyn?
What are we waiting for? Will you never teach that cook of yours to be punctual?"

"It is not her fault, indeed," was the answer, in a low, timid voice; "I ventured to order
dinner to be put off half an hour, to suit the railway time."

The general was too well bred to utter what he very plainly looked--that to have been thus
kept waiting for Miss Arnold he thought a very unwarrantable proceeding indeed.

He stirred up the fire with additional vigor--made it blaze fiercely--then complained of these
abominable coals, which burned like touchwood, and had no heat in them, and wondered whether
Mrs. Melwyn would ever have the energy to order sea-borne coal, as he had desired; and then,
casting a most ungracious look at the new comer, who stood during this scene, feeling shocked
and uncomfortable to a degree, he asked Mrs. Melwyn "how long she intended to keep the young
lady standing there before she dressed for dinner?" and suggested that the housemaid should
be sent for, to show her to her room.

"I will take that office upon myself," said Mrs. Melwyn. "Come, Miss Arnold, will you follow
me?" And lighting a candle, for it was now dark, she proceeded toward the door.

"For heaven's sake, don't be long!" said her husband, in an irritable tone; "it's striking
six and three quarters. Is dinner to be upon the table at seven o'clock, or is it not?"

"Punctually."

"Then, Miss--Miss--I beg your pardon--and Mrs. Melwyn, I hope you will be ready to take your
usual place at table."

They heard no more; for Mrs. Melwyn closed the door, with the air of one escaping--and, looking
uncomfortable and half frightened, led the way up-stairs.

It was a pretty, cheerful little room, of which she opened the door; and a pleasant fire was
blazing in the grate. The bed was of white dimity, trimmed with a border of colored chintz,
as were the window-curtains; the carpet quite new, and uncommonly pretty; chairs, dressing-table,
writing-table, all very neat and elegant; and the tables comfortably covered each with its
proper appendages.

It was quite a pretty little den.

Mrs. Melwyn had taken much pleasure in the fitting up of this small room, which was next to
her own dressing-room. She had fancied herself going to receive into it a second Catherine:
and though the very moderate amount of money of which she had the power of disposing as she
pleased, and the noisy remonstrances and objections of Randall, had prevented her indulging
in many petty fancies which would have amused and occupied her pleasantly since the dismal
day of Catherine's wedding, still she had persisted, contrary to her wont, in having in some
degree her own way. So, in spite of all Randall could do, she had discarded the ugly old things--which
the lady's maid, excessively jealous of this new comer, declared were more than too good for
such as her--and had substituted this cheerful simplicity; and the air of freshness and newness
cast over every thing rendered it particularly pleasing.

"What a beautiful little room!" Lettice could not help exclaiming, looking excessively delighted.
She liked pretty things, and elegant little comforts as well as any body, did Lettice, though
they seldom fell to her share, because she was always for giving them up to other people.

"Do you like it, my dear?" said Mrs. Melwyn, in what Lettice thought the sweetest, softest
voice she had ever heard. "I have taken great pleasure in getting it ready for you; I shall
be glad, indeed, if you can make yourself happy in it."

"Happy! Who could help being happy in such a paradise?" "And with such a sweet, gentle, charming
person as Mrs. Melwyn," mentally added Lettice. "What matters it how cross the poor old general
is," thought she.

"But, my dear, I don't see your trunks. Will you ring the bell for them? The general must not
be kept waiting for his dinner, and he can not endure those who sit down at his table, either
to be too late, or not to be in an evening dress. Military men, you know, are so used to this
sort of precision, that they expect it from all around them. You will remember another day,
my dear, and--" then the under housemaid opened the door. "Tell them to bring up Miss Arnold's
trunks directly."

Them.

She did not at that moment exactly know which was the proper servant whose office it ought
to be to carry Miss Arnold's trunks. Miss Arnold was an anomaly. There was no precedent. Not
a servant in this family would stir without a precedent. The trunk was probably too heavy for
the under-housemaid to carry up--that under-housemaid, one of the fags of an establishment
like this, kept merely to do what the upper-servants are too fine to do. In households like
the one before us, you must have two in every department--there is a chance, then, if you want
any thing done, you may get it done. The under-servant is always, as I said, a sort of fag
or slave in the eyes of the upper ones. They will allow her to make herself useful, though
it should not be exactly her place. Mrs. Melwyn had provided for the attendance upon Miss Arnold
by having recourse to this said under-housemaid, and adding a couple of sovereigns to her wages
unknown to Randall, but she had forgotten the carrying up of her trunk. Had it been Catherine,
this would have been done as a matter of course by the two footmen, and she had a sort of faint
hope they would do it of course now. But, she did not like to ask such a thing, so she said
"them;" hoping somebody would answer to it some way or other, but--

"Who?" asked Bridget bringing the matter to a point.

"Why, I am sure I don't exactly know. Who is there below? I suppose you could not carry them
up yourself, Bridget?"

"I am afraid not, ma'am; there's only one trunk, and it looks heavy."

"Oh!" cried Lettice, "I can come and help you. We can carry it up together, for Myra and I
carried it down together." And she was quitting the room. But Mrs. Melwyn laid her hand upon
her shoulder.

"No, my dear, upon no account; Bridget, fetch up the gardener's boy, he'll help you to carry
the trunk up."

Mrs. Melwyn looked excessively annoyed and distressed: Lettice could not imagine what could
be the matter.

The gentle, kind lady seemed nervous and embarrassed. At last, evidently making a very great
effort with herself, she got out, "Excuse me, my dear, but there is a little thing.... I would
rather not, if you please ... servants are so insolent, you know they are ill brought up; if
you please, my dear, it will be better not to offer to do things for yourself, which young
ladies don't usually undertake to do; such as carrying up trunks. And then, I think, it will
be better not to allude to past circumstances, servants are apt to have such a contempt for
people that have not been very rich. It's very strange and wrong, but so it is. You will be
more comfortable, I think, if you maintain your own dignity. I hope you will not be hurt at
me for giving you this little hint, Miss Arnold."

"Hurt! Oh, madam!" And Lettice could not forbear taking up the beautiful white hand of this
most fair and delicate woman, and kissing it with the most respectful reverence. "Whatever
you will be so very kind as to suggest to me I will so carefully attend to, and I shall be
so much obliged to you."

How sweet was this gentle manner to poor Mrs. Melwyn! She began to feel lightened from quite
a load of anxiety. She began to believe, that happen what would, she should never be afraid
of Lettice. "Catherine was quite right; oh, what a comfort it would be!"

"Well then," she continued, with more cheerfulness, "I will go away and see that your things
are sent up to you, for there is no time to be lost. Bless me! it's striking seven. You never
can be ready. Oh! here it comes! I forgot to tell you that Bridget is to answer your bell and
wait upon you. I have settled all that--you will find her quite good natured and attentive;
she's really an obliging girl."

And so she was. The upper housemaid took care to preserve strict discipline, and exact prompt
obedience in her own department, whatever the mistress of the mansion might do in hers.

"Well, then, I will leave you and make your excuses to the general, and you will follow me
to the dining-room as soon as you can. We must not keep dinner waiting any longer. You will
excuse that ceremony, I am sure. The general is an invalid, you know, and these matters are
important to his health."

And so saying, she glided away, leaving Lettice almost too much astonished to be delighted
with all this consideration and kindness--things to which she had been little accustomed. But
the impression she received, upon the whole, was very sweet. The face and manner of Mrs. Melwyn
were so excessively soft; her very dress, the color of her hair, her step, her voice; every
thing spoke so much gentleness. Lettice thought her the loveliest being she had ever met with.
More charming even than Catherine--more attaching even than Mrs. Danvers. She felt very much
inclined to adore her.

She was but a very few hours longer in the house before pity added to this rising feeling of
attachment; and I believe there is nothing attachés the inferior to the superior like pity.

Dressed in one of her best new dresses, and with her hair done up as neatly as she possibly
could in that hurry, Lettice made her way to the dining-room.

It was a large, lofty, very handsome, and rather awfully resounding room, with old family pictures
upon every side. There was a sideboard set out sparkling with glass and plate; a small table
in the middle of the apartment with silver covers and dishes shining in the light of four wax
candles; a blazing fire, a splendid Indian screen before the door; two footmen in liveries
of pink and white, and a gentleman in a black suit, waiting. The general and Mrs. Melwyn were
seated opposite to each other at table.

The soup had been already discussed, and the first course was set upon the table when Miss
Arnold entered.

Had she been a young lady born, an obsequious footman would have been ready to attend her to
her seat, and present her with a chair: as it was, she would have been spared this piece of
etiquette, and she was making her way to her chair without missing the attention, when the
general, who observed his saucy footmen standing lounging about, without offering to move forward,
frowned in what Lettice thought a most alarming way, and said in a stern voice, and significant
manner, "What are you about?" to the two footmen. This piece of attention was bestowed upon
her to her surprise and to Mrs. Melwyn's great satisfaction.

"We thought you would excuse us. The soup has been set aside for you," said the lady of the house.

"Oh, thank you, ma'am, pray don't trouble yourself."

"Give Miss Arnold soup."

Again in a stern, authoritative voice from the General. Mrs. Melwyn was used to the sternness,
and most agreeably surprised at the politeness, and quite grateful for it. Lettice thought
the voice and look too terrible to take pleasure in any thing connected with it.

She had no need to feel gratitude either--it was not done out of consideration for her. The
general, who, with the exception of Randall, kept, as far as he was concerned, every servant
in the utmost subservience, did not choose that any one who had the honor of a seat at his
table should be neglected by those "rascals," as he usually styled his footmen.

       *       *       *       *       *

It being the first evening, Mrs. Melwyn had too much politeness to require Miss Arnold to enter
upon those after-dinner duties, the performance of which had been expressly stipulated for
by Catherine; stipulated for, not only with Lettice, but with the general himself. She has
made her father promise that he would suffer this young lady to undertake the place of reader--which
Catherine had herself filled for some time, to the inexpressible relief of her mother--and
that Miss Arnold should be permitted to try whether she could play well enough at backgammon
to make an adversary worth vanquishing.

He had grumbled and objected, as a matter of course, to this arrangement, but had finally consented.
However, he was not particularly impatient to begin; and besides, he was habitually a well-bred
man, so that any duty which came under his category of good manners he punctually performed.
People are too apt to misprize this sort of politeness of mere habit; yet, as far as it goes,
it is an excellent thing. It enhances the value of a really kind temper in all the domestic
relations, to an incalculable degree--a degree little appreciated by some worthy people, who
think roughness a proof of sincerity, and that rudeness marks the honest truth of their affections.
And where there is little kindness of nature, and a great deal of selfishness and ill-tempered
indulgence, as in this cross, old man before us, still the habit of politeness was not without
avail; it kept him in a certain check, and certainly rendered him more tolerable. He was not
quite such a brute bear as he would have been, left to his uncorrected nature.

Politeness is, and ought to be, a habit so confirmed, that we exercise it instinctively--without
consideration, without attention, without effort, as it were; this is the very essence of the
sort of politeness I am thinking of. It takes it out of the category of the virtues, it is
true, but it places it in that of the qualities; and, in some matters, good qualities are almost
as valuable, almost more valuable, than if they still continued among the virtues--and this
of politeness, in my opinion, is one.

By virtues, I mean acts which are performed with a certain difficulty, under the sense of responsibility
to duty, under the self-discipline of right principle; by qualities, I mean what is spontaneous.
Constitutional good qualities are spontaneous. Such as natural sweetness of temper--natural
delicacy of feeling--natural intrepidity; others are the result of habit, and end by being
spontaneous--by being a second nature: justly are habits called so. Gentleness of tone and
manner--attention to conventional proprieties--to people's little wants and feelings--are of
these. This same politeness being a sort of summary of such, I will end this little didactic
digression by advising all those who have the rearing of the young in their hands, carefully
to form them in matters of this description, so that they shall attain habits--so that the
delicacy of their perceptions, the gentleness of their tones and gestures, the propriety of
their dress, the politeness of their manners, shall become spontaneous acts, done without reference
to self, as things of course. By which means, not only much that is disagreeable to their is
avoided, and much that is amiable attained, but a great deal of reference to self is in after
life escaped; and temptations to the faults of vanity--pride--envious comparisons with our
neighbors, and the feebleness of self-distrust very considerably diminished.

And so, to return, the politeness of the general and Mrs. Melwyn led to this result, the leaving
Miss Arnold undisturbed to make her reflections and her observations, before commencing the
task which Mrs. Melwyn, for the last time, undertook for her, of reading the newspaper and
playing the hit.

Lettice could not help feeling rejoiced to be spared this sort of public exhibition of her
powers, till she was in a slight degree better acquainted with her ground; and she was glad
to know, without being directly told, what it was customary to do in these respects. But in
every other point of view, she had better, perhaps, have been reader than listener. For, if
she gained a lesson as to the routine to be followed, she paid for it by receiving at the same
time, a considerably alarming impression of the general's ways of proceeding.

"Shall I read the newspaper this evening?" began Mrs. Melwyn, timidly.

"I don't care if you do," roughly.

Polite men, be it observed, en passant, do not at all make it a rule to exercise that habit
to their wives. The wife is a thing apart from the rest of the world, out of the category of
such proprieties. To be rude to his wife is no impeachment of a man's gentleman-like manners
at all.

"Is there any thing worth reading in it?"

"I am sure I don't know what you will think worth reading. Shall I begin with the leading article?"

"What is it all about?"

"I am sure I can't say."

"Can't you look?"

"The sugar question, I think."

"Well, what has the fool to say about that?"

"The speech of Lord **** last night upon the much discussed subject of the sugar question,
has no doubt been read and commented upon, in their various ways, and according to their different
impressions--shall we say prejudices?--by our readers. The performance, it is upon all hands
agreed, was masterly, and, as far as eloquence is concerned, that the accomplished statesman
who uttered this remarkable speech did only justice to..."

"Well--well--well--well," in a sneering tone--"I really do wonder how long you could go on
droning and dinning, and dinning and droning such palpably empty editorial nonsense as that
into a man's ears. Now, I would be glad to ask you--merely to ask you, as a rational woman,
Mrs. Melwyn--what possible amusement or profit can be drawn from a long exordium which says
absolutely nothing--tells one absolutely nothing but what every one knew before--stuff with
which all editors of newspapers seem to think it necessary to preface their remarks. What in
the name of--is the use of wasting your breath and my patience--can't you skip? Are you a mere
reading machine, madam?"

"Shall I pass on to the next subject?"

"No, that's not my meaning--if you could take a meaning. What I want is only what every rational
person expects when these confounded lucubrations of a stupid newspaper editor are read up--that
the reader will have the sense to leave all these useless phrases and useless syllables out,
and give the pith and marrow to the listener. Well--well, never mind--if you can't, you can't:
get on, at all events."

Mrs. Melwyn colored faintly, looked nervous and uneasy--glanced down the columns of the newspaper,
and hesitated.

"Well--can't you go on? What's the use of sitting there looking like a child of six years old,
who's afraid of being whipped? If you can't, you can't--if you haven't the sense you haven't,
but for ---- sake get on."

"'Mr. **** rose, and in a manner upon which we can not exactly bestow our approbation, but
which, nevertheless, seemed to us in an unaccountable manner to obtain the ear and the attention
of a very crowded house, &c., &c.'"

"There you are again! why the deuce can't you pass over all that, and tell us what the confounded
blockheads on that side did really say?"

"I read this debate to you yesterday, you know. These are only the editor's remarks upon it.
Shall I give you the summary of last night's debate?"

"No, let's hear what the fool says upon this cursed sugar question. He's against the measure,
that's one comfort."

"He does not seem to be so exactly," glancing down the page.

"I'll take the liberty of judging that matter myself, Mrs. Melwyn, if you'll only be so particularly
obliging as to read on."

Which she did. Now reproached for reading in such a low, cluttering manner, with that d----d
soft voice of hers, that it was impossible to hear; and when she raised it, asked, "What the
deuce was the use of shouting so as to be heard by the fellows in the servants' hall?"

In this style the newspaper was at last, for better for worse, blundered through, in the most
uncomfortable manner possible, by the terrified reader.

Lettice sat by, deeply attentive. She was a brave, high-spirited girl, and she did not feel
dismayed; her predominant sentiment was self-congratulation that she should be able to spare
that sweet, soft, kind Mrs. Melwyn the ungrateful task.

She sat observing, and laying down her own plans of proceeding. It was not the first time in
her life she had been exposed to what is called scolding; a thing every day, I verily believe--and
am most happy to do so--going more and more out of fashion, though still retained, as a habit,
by many people otherwise well-meaning enough. It was retained in its full vigor by the general,
who was not well-meaning at all; he usually meant nothing on earth by what he did, but the
indulgence of the present humor, good, bad, or indifferent. Lettice had lived in a sphere of
life where this sort of domestic violence used to be very common; and she had learned to bear
it, even from the lips of those she loved, with patience. She knew this very well, and she
thought to herself, "if I could get into the habit of hardly caring for it from those very
near and dear to me, surely it will be easy enough to meet it with indifference from a poor,
cross, peevish, suffering old man, whom I don't care for in the least. The way must be, to
get into the habit of it from the first, to let the words

    "Pass by me as the idle wind which I regard not."

I must put all my vanity, all my spirit, all my own little tempers, quietly out of the way;
and never trouble myself with what he says, but go reading on in the best way I can, to please
him, but with the most unruffled outward appearance of tranquillity; and the utmost secret
indifference as to whether I succeed or not. He shall be sooner tired of scolding, than I of
looking as if I never heard it. He'll give over if I can persevere, instead of looking all
colors and all ways, as that dear, gentle Mrs. Melwyn does."

The trial at backgammon was, if such a thing could be, worse. It seemed as if it was impossible
to give satisfaction here. The general not only played his own game, but insisted upon playing
that of his adversary; and was by turns angry at her stupidity in missing an advantage through
want of skill, asking, "What could be the possible interest or pleasure of playing with such
a mere child?" and vexed, if the plan he pointed out ended in his own discomfiture, for he
could not bear to lose.

Backgammon, too, was an unlucky game to be played with one of a temper such as his. Every favorable
throw of the dice, it is true, filled him with a disagreeable sarcastic exultation; but a positively
bad one, and still more, a succession of bad ones, drove him furious. After a long course of
provoking throws, such as sometimes happen, he would seem half mad, storm, curse, and swear,
in the most ridiculous, if it had not been blasphemous, manner; and sometimes end by banging
the tables together, and vowing he would never play at this confounded game again as long as
he lived.

There was an exhibition of this sort that very evening. Mrs. Melwyn looked much distressed,
and almost ashamed, as she glanced at Lettice to see how she took it; but Lettice appeared
to be too much engaged with a knot in her netting to seem to take it at all, which evidently
relieved Mrs. Melwyn. The scene had not, however, been lost upon our friend, who had observed
it with a smile of secret contempt.

Mentally, however, congratulating herself upon her good, robust nerves; such things, she well
knew, being perilous to those cursed with delicacy of that sort. The best endeavors, the best
intentions, would be without avail in such cases, such sufferers would find their powers of
endurance destroyed by these successive acts of violence, till it would be impossible to meet
them tolerably. Again she looked at Mrs. Melwyn, and with great pity. Again she rejoiced in
the idea of saving her from what she perceived was indeed, to such a frame and temper as hers,
a source of very great suffering; and again she resolved to keep up her own spirits, and maintain
the only true defense, courage and indifference. She felt sure, if she could only, by a little
effort, do this for a short time, the effort would terminate in a habit; after which it would
cost her little or nothing more.

The general, though polite to Lettice in their first communications, held her in far too little
esteem to care one doit what he did or said before her. He was an excessively proud man; and
the idea that a girl, so greatly his inferior in every way, should keep him in check, or venture
even to make a remark upon him, far less presume to judge his conduct, never entered his head.
I wonder what he would have felt, if he could have been made aware of that secret smile.

Now a tray with wine, spirits, and water, was introduced. The general took his accustomed glass
of whisky and water, then opened his cigar-box, and began to smoke. This process invariably
made Mrs. Melwyn feel rather sick, and she rose this evening to go away; but being asked what
she was moving for, she resumed her seat, and sat till two cigars had been smoked, and the
clock told half-past ten; when, as the general loved early hours, she was suffered to take
her departure.

The servant entered with lighted candles. Mrs. Melwyn took one, and bade him give Miss Arnold
another; and they went up stairs together.

"Good night, my dear," said the lady of the house, with a wearied, worn air, and a tone in
which there was a good deal of sadness.

She never could get used to these scenes, poor thing; every time the general was cross she
felt it acutely; he had grown dreadfully cross since Catherine married. Mrs. Melwyn hardly
knew what to do with him, or how to bear it.

"Good night, my dear, I hope you will sleep comfortably."

"Can I be of any further use to you, madam, to-night."

"Oh, no, thank you; don't come into my dressing-room--Randall is very particular: she considers
that her own territory. She does not like any one to come in, especially at night; but just
let me look whether your fire burns," she added, entering Lettice's room.

The fire was blazing merrily; Mrs. Melwyn put her candle down upon the chimney-piece, and stood
there a little while before it, looking again irresolute. It seemed as if she wished, and did
not know how, to say something. Lettice stood at a short distance, respectfully expectant.

"I declare it's very cold to-night," with a little shiver.

"I did not feel it cold, but then this is so thoroughly comfortable a house."

"Do you think so? Shall you find it so? The wind comes sharply down the passages sometimes,
but I wish, I hope, you won't care much for that ... or ... or ... or ... any little painful
things; they can't be helped, you know, in this world."

"Ah, madam! if I may venture to say so, there is one good thing one gets out of great hardships--little
things do seem so very little afterward."

"Ay, if they are really little, but--"

"Things that are ... that don't seem little to people of more gentle nurture, who have lived
in a different way, seem, and are, little to those who have roughed it till they are themselves
roughened. That was what I intended to say. One is so very happy to escape dreadful, real,
positive distress, that all the rest is like mere play."

Mrs. Melwyn looked at her in a pensive, anxious, inquiring manner. She wanted to see if she
was understood; she saw that she was. She saw something truly heartening and encouraging in
the young girl's countenance. She shook hands with her and bade her good night very affectionately,
and went to her own dressing-room.

Randall was as cross that night as it was possible for the most tyrannical servant to be, but
some way or other, Mrs. Melwyn did not feel as if she cared for it quite so much as usual;
she had her mind filled with the image of Lettice. Something so very nice about her--she thought
to herself--in one respect even better than Catherine. She should not be so afraid of her being
distressed by disagreeable things; she should venture to tell her about Randall, and other
vexations which she had carefully concealed from Catherine, lest they should make her unhappy.
Thus she represented it to herself: the truth was, lest Catherine should make a point of Randall
being parted with, an effort she knew herself quite incompetent to make.

She should be able to complain of Randall, without feeling that she should be urged to conquer
her weakness, and part with her. There was something very comfortable in this; so Randall pouted
away, and Mrs. Melwyn heeded it not very much, not nearly so much as usual; and when Randall
perceived this, she was excessively offended, and more and more cross and disagreeable. She
had quite quickness enough to perceive how much her despotism must be weakened by the rule
being thus divided, and she saw even so early something of the effects she deprecated. The
observation, however, did not tend to soften her or to render her more obliging, it was not
the least in her plan to contend with the new comer in this way; she meant to meet her, and
her mistress, with open defiance, and bear both down by main force.

CHAPTER VI.

    "Cowards die many times before their death."

                          SHAKSPEARE.

The courage of Lettice, as I have told you, was strong, and her nerves good, but in spite of
this, assisted by the best resolutions in the world, she did find it a hard matter to stand
the general. She was very hopeful the first day or two--the habitual politeness, of which I
have spoken, came in aid. It exercised a sort of instinctive and involuntary check upon the
old man's rude intemperance of language when irritated. Lettice did her very best to read the
newspaper to his satisfaction; skipping every unnecessary word, just as Catherine had been
accustomed to do, without hurting the sense in the least; and getting over the ground with
all the rapidity the old veteran desired. This was a plan poor Mrs. Melwyn was far too nervous
to adopt. If she missed a word it was sure to be the wrong one to miss--one necessary to, instead
of encumbering the meaning. It was quite indispensable that she should read simply and straightforwardly
what was put before her, or she was certain to get into confusion, and have herself scolded.
Even the dreaded and dreadful backgammon did tolerably well, while the general's politeness
to the stranger lasted. Lettice was surprised herself, to find how easily the task, which had
appeared so awful, was discharged; but she had not long to congratulate herself. Gradually,
at first by slow degrees, but afterward like the accelerated descent of a stone down the hill,
acquired habit gave way to constitutional ill-humor. Alas, they tell us nature expelled with
a pitchfork will make her way back again; most true of the unregenerated nature--most true
of the poor blind heathen--or the poor untutored Christian, to all intents and purposes a heathen--too
true even of those assisted by better considerations, higher principles, and higher aids.

First it was a little low grumbling; then a few impatient gestures; then a few impatient words--words
became sentences; sentences of invective--soon it was with her, just as it had been with others.
This graduated progression assisted, however, gradually to harden and prepare her. She was
resolved not to look frightened, though her very knees would knock together at times. She was
determined never to allow herself to feel provoked or hurt, or ill-used, let the general be
ever so rude; and to soften her heart by any such ideas she never allowed herself. Steadily
she kept in mind that he was a suffering, ill-disciplined, irritable old man; and by keeping
these considerations in view, she actually achieved the most difficult--almost heroic effort.
She managed to attain a frame of mind in which she could pity his sufferings, feel indulgence
for his faults, and remain quite placid under their effects as regarded herself.

This conduct before a very long time had elapsed produced an effect far more agreeable than
she had ever ventured to anticipate.

The general began to like her.

Like many other cross people, he was excessively difficult to be pleased in one article--the
way people took his scoldings. He was offended if they were received with cheerfulness--in
the way Edgar had tried to laugh them off--he was still more vexed if people seemed hurt or
suffering under them: if they cried, it was bad, indeed. Like many others not absolutely wicked
and cruel, though he could not control his temper, he really did feel vexed at seeing the pain
he had produced. His conscience would cry out a little at such times. Now, nothing made him
so uncomfortable and irritable, as having a quarrel with his conscience; a thing that did not
very often happen, to be sure--the said conscience being in his case not a very watchful guardian,
but it was all the more disagreeable when it spoke. The genuine good temper and habitual self-possession--the
calmness without disrespect--the cheerfulness without carelessness--the respectful attention
stripped of all meanness or subservience which Lettice managed to preserve in her relations
with him--at last made its way quite to his heart, that is to say, to his taste or fancy, for
I don't think he had much of a heart. He began to grow quite fond of her, and one day delighted,
as much as he surprised Mrs. Melwyn, by saying, that Miss Arnold really was a very pretty sort
of young woman, and he thought suited them very well. And so the grand difficulty of managing
with the general's faults was got over, but there remained Mrs. Melwyn's and the servants'.

Lettice had never laid her account at finding any faults in Mrs. Melwyn. That lady from the
first moment she beheld her, had quite won her heart. Her elegance of appearance, the Jove-like
softness of her countenance, the gentle sweetness of her voice, all conspired to make the most
charming impression. Could there lie any thing under that sweet outside, but the gentlest and
most indulgent of temper?

No, she was right there, nothing could be more gentle, more indulgent than was Mrs. Melwyn's
temper; and Lettice had seen so much of the rough, the harsh, the captious, and the unamiable
during her life, that grant her the existence of those two qualities, and she could scarcely
desire any thing more. She had yet to learn what are the evils which attend the timid and the weak.

She had yet to know that there may be much concealed self-indulgence, where there is a most
yielding disposition; and that they who are too cowardly to resist wrong and violence courageously,
from a weak and culpable indulgence of their own shyness and timidity, will afford a poor defense
to those they ought to protect, and expose them to innumerable evils.

Lettice had managed to become easy with the general; she could have been perfectly happy with
Mrs. Melwyn, but nothing could get over the difficulties with the servants. Conscious of the
misrule they exercised; jealous of the newcomer--who soon showed herself to be a clever and
spirited girl--a sort of league was immediately instituted among them; its declared object
being either to break her spirit, or get rid of her out of the house. The persecutions she
endured; the daily minute troubles and vexations; the difficulties cast in her path by these
dangerous yet contemptible foes, it would be endless to describe.

Whatever she wanted she could not get done. Even Bridget, under the influence of the upper-housemaid,
proved a broken reed to lean upon. Her fire would never be lighted; nor her room done at the
proper time; and when she came down with red hands, purple cheeks, and, worst of all, a red
nose, looking this cold spring the very picture of chill and misery, the general would look
cross, and Mrs. Melwyn not pleased, and would wonder, "How she could get so starved, and why
she did not make them light her fire."

She could make no reply but that she would ask Bridget to be more punctual.

It was worse, when do what she would--ring as she would--nobody would come to fasten her dress
for dinner till the last bell was sounding, and when it was impossible for her to pay all those
nice attentions to her appearance which the general's critical eye demanded. Though he said
nothing he would upon such occasions look as if he thought her a sloven; and Mrs. Melwyn, on
her side, seemed excessively fretted and uneasy, that her favorite would do herself so little
justice, and run the risk of forfeiting the general's favor; and this last piece of injustice,
Lettice did feel it hard to bear.

It was the same in all the other minutiæ of domestic life. Every trifling circumstance, like
a midge's sting, though insignificant in itself, was rendered in the sum total most troublesome.

If they were going out walking, Miss Arnold's shoes were never cleaned. She provided herself
with several pairs, that one at least might always be ready, and she not keep the general and
Mrs. Melwyn waiting. It was of no use. The shoes were never ready. If there were several pairs,
they were lost, or odd shoes brought up.

She did not care for labor. She had no foolish pride about serving herself, she had been used
to that sort of thing; she had not the slightest wish on earth to be a fine lady; but that
was forbidden. It was one of the things Mrs. Melwyn had made a point of, and continued to make
a point of; but then, why did she not take care she should be better served?

She, the mistress in her own house! Was it indifference to her guest's comforts? No, her unremitting
personal kindness forbade that idea. What was it then, that left her helpless guest thus exposed
to want and insult? Yes, want! I may use the word; for in her new sphere of action, the things
she required were absolute necessaries. The want in its way was as great as she had ever known.
Yes, insult--for every little negligence was felt as an insult--Lettice knew too well that
as an insult it was intended. What made this kind Mrs. Melwyn permit such things? Weakness,
nothing but weakness--culpable weakness--horror of that which would give her feeble spirit pain.

Lettice found it extremely difficult to be candid in this instance. She who had never experienced
what this weakness of the spirit was, found it almost impossible to be indulgent to it. She
felt quite vexed and sore. But when she looked so, poor Mrs. Melwyn would put on such a sad,
anxious, weary face, that it was impossible not to feel concerned for her, and to forgive her
at once. And so this good, generous, kind-hearted being's temper achieved another victory.
She was able to love Mrs. Melwyn in spite of all her weakness, and the evils she in consequence
suffered; and this indulgent affection made every thing easy.

There were times, however, when she found it almost too difficult to get on; but upon one occasion
after another occurring of this nature, and still more when she discovered that Mrs. Melwyn
was a yet greater sufferer from this servile tyranny than herself, she at last determined to
speak out, and see whether things could not be established upon a more reasonable and proper
footing.

There was one day a terrible quarrel with Randall. It happened that Randall was from home,
drinking tea with a friend. She had either bound up the general's ailing arm too tight, or
the arm had swelled; however, for some reason or other the injured part became extremely painful.
The general fidgeted and swore, but bore it for some time with the sort of resolute determination,
with which, to do him justice, he was accustomed to meet pain. At last the aching became so
intolerable that it was scarcely to be endured; and after ringing twenty times to inquire whether
Randall was come home, and uttering a heavy imprecation each time he was answered in the negative;
what between pain and impatience he became so fevered that he really seemed quite ill, and
his sufferings were evidently more than he could well endure. Poor Mrs. Melwyn, helpless and
feeble, dared not propose to do any thing for him, though she suffered--soft, kind creature
that she was--almost more in witnessing his distress than he did in the midst of it. At last
Lettice ventured to say, that she thought it a great pity the general should continue to suffer
this agony, which she felt assured must be positively dangerous, and modestly ventured to suggest
that she should be allowed to undo the bandage and relieve the pressure.

"Dear me," said Mrs. Melwyn, in a harried, frightened way, "could you venture? Suppose you
should do mischief; better wait, perhaps."

"Easily said, ma'am," cried the general. "It's not your arm that's aching as if it would drop
from your body, that's plain. What's that you're saying, Miss Arnold?"

"If you could trust me to do it, I was saying; if you would give me leave, I would undo the
bandage and endeavor to make it more comfortable. I am afraid that this pain and tight binding
may bring on positive inflammation. I really should not be afraid to try; I have seen Mrs.
Randall do it hundreds of times. There is no difficulty in it."

"Dear Lettice, how you talk!" said Mrs. Melwyn, as if she were afraid Randall was behind the
door. "No difficulty! How could Randall bear to hear you say so?"

"I don't know, ma'am; perhaps she would contradict me. But I think at all events there is no
difficulty that I could not manage."

"Well, then, for Heaven's sake, try, child!" cried the general; "for really the pain is as
if all the dogs in Hockley were gnawing at it. Come along; do something, for the love of--"

He suffered Lettice to help him off with his coat, and to undo the bandage, which she accomplished
very handily; and then observed that Mrs. Randall, in her haste to depart upon her visit, had
bound up the wound in a most careless manner; and the irritation had already produced so serious
an inflammation that she was quite alarmed, and suggested that the doctor should be sent for.

The general swore at the idea of the doctor, and yet more violently at that old hag Randall's
confounded carelessness. Mrs. Melwyn looked miserable; she saw the case was bad, and yet she
knew that to send for the doctor, and take it out of Randall's hands, would be an insult never
to be forgiven.

But Lettice was steady. She was not quite ignorant in these matters, and she felt it her duty
to be firm. She expostulated and remonstrated, and was just carrying her point when Mrs. Randall
came home; and, having heard below how things were going on, hurried, uncalled for, into the
dining-room.

She came in in a mighty pucker, as she would herself have called it, and began asking who had
dared to open the wound and expose it to the air: and, seeing Miss Arnold preparing to apply
a bread-and-water poultice, which she had made, fell into such a passion of rage and jealousy
that she forgot herself so far as to snatch it from Lettice's hand, vowing, if any body was
to be allowed to meddle with her arm, she would never touch it again so long as she lived.

Mrs. Melwyn turned pale, and began in her softest way,

"Now, really, Randall. Don't be angry, Randall--do listen, Randall. The bandage was too tight;
I assure you, it was. We should not have thought of touching it else."

"What the devil, Randall, are you about to do now?" cried the general, as she took possession
of the arm, in no gentle fashion.

"Bind it up again, to be sure, and keep that air out of it."

"But you hurt me confoundedly. Ah! it's more than I can bear. Don't touch it--it's as if it
were on fire!"

"But it must be bound up, I say," going on without the least regard to the torture she was
evidently putting him to.

But Lettice interfered.

"Indeed, Mrs. Randall," she said, "I do not think that you seem to be aware of the state of
inflammation that the arm is in. I assure you, you had better apply the bread-and-water poultice,
and send for Mr. Lysons."

"You assure me. Much you know about the matter, I should fancy."

"I think I know this much. Dear Mrs. Melwyn! Dear general! It is more serious than you think.
Pray, let me write for Mr. Lysons!"

"I do believe she's right, Randall, for the infernal torture you put me to is more than I can
bear. Ach! Let it go, will you? Undo it! Undo it!"

But Mrs. Randall, unrelentingly, bound on.

"Have done, I say! Undo it! Will nobody undo it? Lettice Arnold, for Heaven's sake!" His face
was bathed with the sweat of agony.

Randall persisted; Mrs. Melwyn stood pale, helpless, and aghast; but Lettice hastened forward,
scissors in hand, cut the bandage, and liberated the tortured arm in a minute.

Mrs. Randall was in an awful rage. She forgot herself entirely; she had often forgotten herself
before; but there was something in this, being done in the presence of a third person, of one
so right-minded and spirited as Lettice, which made both the general and his wife view it in
a new light. A sort of vail seemed to fall from before their eyes; and for the first time,
they both seemed--and simultaneously--aware of the impropriety and the degradation of submitting
to it.

"Randall! Randall!" remonstrated Mrs. Melwyn, still very gently, however; but it was a great
step to remonstrate at all--but Randall was abusing Lettice most violently, and her master
and mistress into the bargain, for being governed by such as her! "Randall! Randall! Don't--you
forget yourself!"

But the general, who had been silent a second or two, at last broke forth, and roared,

"Have done with your infernal noise! won't you, you beldam! Here, Lettice, give me the poultice;
put it on, and then write for Lysons, will you?"

In matters such as this, the first step is every thing. Mrs. Melwyn and her fiery partner had
both been passive as a poor bewitched hen, we are told, is with a straw over her neck. Once
shift her position and the incubus is gone.

The arrival of Mr. Lysons completed the victory. Mortification was upon the eve of setting
in. The relief from the bandage, and the emollient poultice applied by Lettice, had in all
probability saved the general's life.

Little Mrs. Randall cared for this demonstration of her mistaken treatment; she had been too
long accustomed to triumph, to yield the field undisputed to a rival. She took refuge in sulky
silence, and when Mr. Lysons was gone, desired to speak with Mrs. Melwyn.

The usual harangue was made. "As she could no longer give satisfaction--would Mrs. Melwyn please
to provide herself in a month."

The blood run cold to Mrs. Melwyn's heart. What! Randall! Impossible! What should she do! What
would the general do? What would become of the servants? Who would look after them? What could
be done without the faithful Randall?

"Oh, Randall! you don't think of leaving me," she began.

I am not going to repeat the dialogue, which was much the same as that which usually ensues
when the mistress entreats the maid to stay, thus putting herself into an irremediably false
position. The result of such entreaties was the usual one. Randall, assured of victory, took
the matter with a high hand, and, most luckily for all parties, refused to be mollified.

Then poor Mrs. Melwyn, in dismay and despair, returned to the drawing-room. She looked quite
ill; she dared not tell the general what had happened--positively dared not. She resolved to
make one other appeal to Randall first; to bribe her, as she had often done before, to bribe
high--higher than ever. Any thing, rather than part with her.

But she was so nervous, so restless, so miserable, that Lettice observed it with much compassion,
and came and sat by her, which was her way of comforting her friend when she saw she wanted
comfort. Mrs. Melwyn took her hand, and held it between both hers, and looked as if she greatly
wanted comfort, indeed.

The general, soon after this, rose to go to bed. It was earlier than his usual hour, for he
was quite worn out with what he had suffered.

So he left the two ladies sitting over the fire, and then Mrs. Melwyn at last opened her heart,
and disclosed to her friend the dismal tidings--the cause of her present misery--and related
in detail the dreadful occurrence of Randall's resignation.

It was time, Lettice thought, to speak out, and she determined to venture upon it. She had
long anxiously desired to emancipate the woman she loved with all the intensity of a child,
from the fearful yoke under which she suffered: to dissolve the pernicious enchantment which
surrounded her. She spoke, and she did so with so much gentleness, reason, firmness, good-nature;
that Mrs. Melwyn yielded to the blessed influence. In short, it was that night determined that
Randall's resignation, so far as Mrs. Melwyn was concerned, should be accepted. If that potentate
chose to communicate her resolution herself to the general, it was well, and he must decide;
otherwise Lettice would take upon herself to do this, and, unless he opposed the measure, Randall
should go.

With little difficulty Lettice persuaded Mrs. Melwyn not to ring for Randall that night, saying
that now she had resigned her position, her mistress had better allow herself to be put to
bed by her friend. This was not a difficult task. That she should not meet Randall again was
what Mrs. Melwyn in her terror as much desired as Lettice did in her prudence. In short, the
general, under the influence of Lettice's representations--she was beginning to gain great
influence with him--consented to part with the maid; and Lettice had the inconceivable satisfaction
of herself carrying to that personage her wages, and a handsome gratuity, and of seeing her
that very morning quit the house, which was done with abundance of tears, and bitter lamentations
over the ingratitude of mankind.

How the house felt after she was gone, those who have been visited with a domestic plague of
this nature will understand. To those who have not, so great a result from so apparently insignificant
a cause would be utterly unimaginable.

"And so they lived very happy ever afterward."

Well--don't stare--they really did.

A good genius was substituted for an evil one. Under her benign influence it is astonishing
how smoothly and merrily things went on. The general was so comfortable that he very often
forgot to be cross; Mrs. Melwyn, content with every thing, but her power of showing her love
for Lettice--though she did this in every way she could think of.

And so I will leave this good, sensible, God-fearing girl for the present,

    "blessing and blest in all she does,"

and tell you how Myra went to Mrs. Fisher, and something about that lady.

(To be continued.)

[From Guizot's Discourse on the English Revolution.]

THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

BY GUIZOT.

George III. had been seated on the throne sixteen years, when, at fourteen hundred leagues
from his capital, more than two millions of his subjects broke the ties which bound them to
his throne, declared their independence, and undertook the foundation of the republic of the
United States of America. After a contest of seven years, England was brought to recognize
that independence, and to treat upon equal terms with the new state. Since that time sixty-seven
years have elapsed, and, without any violent effort, without extraordinary events, by the mere
development of their institutions and of the prosperity which is the natural attendant on peace,
the United States have taken an honorable place among great nations. Never was so rapid an
elevation, so little costly at its origin, nor so little troubled in its progress.

It is not merely to the absence of any powerful rival, or to the boundless space open to their
population, that the United States of America have owed this singular good fortune. The rapidity
and the serenity of their rise to greatness are not the result of such fortunate accidents
alone, but are to be attributed in a great degree to moral causes.

They rose into existence as a state under the banner of right and justice. In their case, too,
the revolution from which their history dates was an act of defense. They claimed guarantees
and asserted principles which were inscribed in their charters, and which the English parliament
itself, though it now refused them to its subjects, had formerly triumphantly claimed and asserted
in the mother-country, with far greater violence and disorder than were occasioned by their
resistance.

They did not, to speak strictly, attempt a revolution. Their enterprise was, no doubt, great
and perilous. To achieve the conquest of their independence, they had to go through a war with
a powerful enemy, and the construction of a central government in the place of the distant
power whose yoke they threw off: but in their local institutions, and those which regarded
the daily affairs of life, they had no revolution to make. Each of the colonies already enjoyed
a free government as to its internal affairs, and when it became a state found little change
necessary or desirable in the maxims and organization of power. There was no ancient order
of things to fear, to hate, to destroy; the attachment to the ancient laws and manners, the
affectionate reverence for the past, were, on the contrary, the general sentiments of the people.
The colonial government under the patronage of a distant monarchy, was easily transformed into
a republican government under a federation of states.

Of all the forms or modes of government, the republican is unquestionably that to which the
general and spontaneous assent of the country is the most indispensable. It is possible to
conceive of an absolute monarchy founded by violence, and indeed such have existed; but a republic
forced upon a nation, popular government established contrary to the instinct and the wishes
of a people--this is a spectacle revolting equally to common sense and to justice. The Anglo-American
colonies, in their transition, into the republic of the United States, had no such difficulty
to surmount; the Republic was the full and free choice of the people; and in adopting that
form of government they did but accomplish the national wish, and develop instead of overturning
their existing institutions.

Nor was the perturbation greater in social than in political order. There were no conflicts
between different classes, no violent transfer of influence from one order of men to another.
Though the crown of England had still partisans in the colonies, their attachment had nothing
to do with their position in the scale of society; indeed the wealthy and important families
were in general the most firmly resolved on the conquest of their independence and the foundation
of a new system. Under their direction the people acted, and the event was accomplished. And
if society underwent no revolution, so neither did men's minds. The philosophical ideas of
the eighteenth century, its moral skepticism and its religious unbelief, had no doubt penetrated
into the United States, and had obtained some circulation there; but the minds to which they
found entrance were not entirely carried away by them; they did not take root there with their
fundamental principles and their ultimate consequences: the moral gravity and the practical
good sense of the old Puritans survived in most of the admirers of the French philosophers
in America. The mass of the population remained profoundly Christian, as warmly attached to
its creed as to its liberties.

While they rebelled against the authority of the King and the Parliament of England, they were
submissive to the will of God and the precepts of the Gospel, and while struggling for independence,
they were governed by the same faith which had conducted their ancestors to this land, where
they laid the foundations of what was now rising into a state.

The ideas and passions which now convulse and disorganize society under the name of democracy,
have an extensive and powerful sway in the United States, and ferment there with all the contagious
errors and destructive vices which they involve. But they have hitherto been controlled and
purified by Christianity, by the excellent political traditions, and the strong habits of obedience
to law, which, in the midst of liberty, govern the population. Though anarchical principles
are boldly proclaimed on this vast theatre, principles of order and conservation maintain their
ground, and exercise a solid and energetic influence both over society and over individual
minds; their presence and their power are every where felt, even in the party which especially
claims the name of democratic. They moderate its actions, and often save it, unknown to itself,
from its own intemperance. It is to these tutelary principles, which presided over the origin
of the American revolution, that it owes it success. May Heaven grant that in the formidable
struggle which they have now to sustain on every side, they may continue to guide this powerful
people, and may be always at hand to warn them in time of the abysses which lie so near their path!

Three great men, Cromwell, William III., and Washington, stand forth in history as the heads
and representatives of those supreme crises which have determined the fate of two great nations.
For extent and energy of natural talents, Cromwell is perhaps the most remarkable of the three.
His mind was wonderfully prompt, firm, just, supple, and inventive, and he possessed a vigor
of character which no obstacle could daunt, no conflict weary; he pursued his designs with
an ardor as exhaustless as his patience, whether through the slowest and most tortuous ways,
or the most abrupt and daring. He excelled equally in winning men, and in ruling them by personal
and familiar intercourse; he displayed equal ability in leading an army or a party. He had
the instinct of popularity and the gift of authority, and he let loose factions with as much
audacity as he subdued them. But born in the midst of a revolution, and raised to sovereign
power by a succession of violent shocks, his genius was, from first to last, essentially revolutionary;
and though he was taught by experience the necessity of order and government, he was incapable
of either respecting or practicing the moral and permanent laws on which alone government can
rest. Whether it was the fault of his nature, or the vice of his position, he wanted regularity
and calmness in the exercise of power; had instant recourse to extreme measures, like a man
constantly in dread of mortal dangers, and, by the violence of his remedies, perpetuated or
even aggravated the evils which he sought to cure. The establishment of a government is a work
which requires a more regular course, and one more conformable to the eternal laws of moral
order. Cromwell was able to subjugate the revolution he had so largely contributed to make,
but he did not succeed in establishing any thing in the place of what he had destroyed.

Though less powerful than Cromwell by nature, William III., and Washington succeeded in the
undertaking in which he failed; they fixed the destiny and founded the government of their
country. Even in the midst of a revolution they never accepted nor practiced a revolutionary
policy; they never placed themselves in that fatal situation in which a man first uses anarchical
violence as a stepping-stone to power, and then despotic violence as a necessity entailed upon
him by its possession. They were naturally placed, or they placed themselves, in the regular
ways and under the permanent conditions of government. William was an ambitious prince. It
is puerile to believe that, up to the moment of the appeal sent to him from London in 1688,
he had been insensible to the desire of ascending the throne of England, or ignorant of the
schemes long going on to raise him to it. William followed the progress of these schemes step
by step; he accepted no share in the means, but he did not repel the end, and, without directly
encouraging, he protected its authors. His ambition was ennobled by the greatness and justice
of the cause to which it was attached--the cause of religious liberty and of the balance of
power in Europe. Never did man make a vast political design more exclusively the thought and
purpose of his life than William did. The work which he accomplished on the field or in the
cabinet was his passion; his own aggrandizement was but the means to that end. Whatever were
his views on the crown of England, he never attempted to realize them by violence and disorder.
His mind was too well regulated not to know the incurable vice of such means, and too lofty
to accept the yoke they impose. But when the career was opened to him by England herself, he
did not suffer himself to be deterred from entering on it by the scruples of a private man;
he wished his cause to triumph, and he wished to reap the honor of the triumph. Rare and glorious
mixture of worldly ability and Christian faith, of personal ambition and devotion to public ends!

Washington had no ambition; his country wanted him to serve her, and he became great rather
from a sense of duty than from taste; sometimes even with a painful effort. The trials of his
public life were bitter to him; he preferred independence and repose to the exercise of power.
But he accepted, without hesitation, the task which his country imposed on him, and in fulfilling
it did nothing to diminish its burden. Born to govern, though he had no delight in governing,
he told the American people what he believed to be true, and persisted in doing what he thought
wise, with a firmness as unshaken as it was simple, and a sacrifice of popularity the more
meritorious as it was not compensated by the pleasures of domination. The servant of an infant
republic, in which the democratic spirit prevailed, he won the confidence of the people by
maintaining its interests in opposition to its inclinations. While founding a new government,
he practiced that policy, at once modest and severe, measured and independent, which seems
to belong only to the head of an aristocratic senate ruling over an ancient state. His success
does equal honor to Washington and to his country.

Whether we consider the general destiny of nations, or the lives of the great men whom they
have produced; whether we are treating of a monarchy or a republic, an aristocratic or a democratic
society, we gather the same light from facts; we see that the same laws determine the ultimate
success or failure of governments. The policy which preserves and maintains a state in its
ancient security and customary order is also the only policy that can bring a revolution to
a successful close, and give stability to the institutions whose lasting excellence may justify
it to succeeding ages.

FIFTY YEARS AGO.

My father, whose manners were at once highbred and lively, had some great acquaintances; but
I recollect none of them personally, except an old lady of quality, who (if memory does not
strangely deceive me, and give me a personal share in what I only heard talked of; for old
autobiographers of childhood must own themselves liable to such confusions) astounded me one
day by letting her false teeth slip out, and clapping them in again.

I had no idea of the existence of such phenomena, and could almost as soon have expected her
to take off her head and readjust it. She lived in Red Lion-square, a quarter in different
estimation from what it is now. It was at her house, I believe, that my father one evening
met Wilkes. He did not know him by sight, and happening to fall into conversation with him,
while the latter sat looking down, he said something in Wilkes's disparagement, on which the
jovial demagogue looked up in his face, and burst out a laughing.

I do not exactly know how people dressed at that time; but I believe that sacks, and negligées,
and toupees were going out, and the pigtail and the simpler modern style of dress coming in.
I recollect hearing my mother describe the misery of having her hair dressed two or three stories
high, and of lying in it all night ready for some visit or spectacle next day. I think I also
recollect seeing Wilkes himself in an old-fashioned flap-waistcoated suit of scarlet and gold;
and I am sure I have seen Murphy, the dramatist, a good deal later, in a suit of a like fashion,
though soberer, and a large cocked-hat. The cocked-hat in general survived till nearly the
present century. It was superseded by the round one during the French Revolution. I remember
our steward at school, a very solemn personage, making his appearance in one, to our astonishment,
and not a little to the diminution of his dignity. Some years later, I saw Mr. Pitt in a blue
coat, buckskin breeches and boots, and a round hat, with powder and pigtail. He was thin and
gaunt, with his hat off his forehead, and his nose in the air. Much about the same time I saw
his friend, the first Lord Liverpool, a respectable looking old gentleman, in a brown wig.
Later still, I saw Mr. Fox, fat and jovial, though he was then declining. He, who had been
a "beau" in his youth, then looked something quaker-like as to dress, with plain colored clothes,
a broad round hat, white waistcoat, and, if I am not mistaken, white stockings. He was standing
in Parliament-street, just where the street commences as you leave Whitehall; and was making
two young gentlemen laugh heartily at something which he seemed to be relating.

My father once took me--but I can not say at what period of my juvenility--into both houses
of Parliament. In the Commons, I saw Mr. Pitt sawing the air, and occasionally turning to appeal
to those about him, while he spoke in a loud, important, and hollow voice. When the persons
he appealed to, said "Hear! hear!" I thought they said "Dear! dear!" in objection; and I wondered
that he did not seem in the least degree disconcerted. The house of Lords, I must say (without
meaning disrespect to an assembly which must always have contained some of the most accomplished
men in the country), surprised me with the personally insignificant look of its members. I
had, to be sure, conceived exaggerated notions of the magnates of all countries; and perhaps
might have expected to behold a set of conscript fathers; but in no respect, real or ideal,
did they appear to me in their corporate aspect, like any thing which is understood by the
word "noble." The Commons seemed to me to have the advantage; though they surprised me with
lounging on the benches, and retaining their hats. I was not then informed enough to know the
difference between apparent and substantial importance; much less aware of the positive exaltation,
which that very simplicity, and that absence of pretension, gave to the most potent assembly
in Europe.--Leigh Hunt's Autobiography.

[From Household Words.]

A PARIS NEWSPAPER.

Within the precincts of that resort for foreigners and provincials in Paris, the Palais Royal,
is situate the Rue du 24 Fevrier. This revolutionary name, given after the last outbreak, is
still pronounced with difficulty by those who, of old, were wont to call it the Rue de Valois.
People are becoming accustomed to call the royally named street by its revolutionary title,
although it is probable that no one will ever succeed in calling the Palais Royal Palais National;
the force of habit being in this instance too great to efface old recollections. Few foreigners
have ever penetrated into the Rue de 24 Fevrier, though it forms one of the external galleries
of the Palais Royal, and one may see there the smoky kitchens, dirty cooks, the night-side
in fact, of the splendid restaurants, whose gilt fronts attract attention inside. Rubicund
apples, splendid game, truffles, and ortolans, deck the one side; smoke, dirty plates, rags,
and smutty saucepans may be seen on the other.

It is from an office in the Rue de 24 Fevrier, almost opposite the dark side of a gorgeous
Palais Royal restaurant, that issue 40,000 copies of a daily print, entitled the "Constitutionnel."

Newspaper offices, be it remarked, are always to be found in odd holes and corners. To the
mass in London, Printing-house square, or Lombard-street, Whitefriars, are mystical localities;
yet they are the daily birth-places of that fourth estate which fulminates anathemas on all
the follies and weaknesses of governments; and, without which, no one can feel free or independent.
The "Constitutionnel" office is about as little known to the mass of its subscribers as either
Printing-house square or Whitefriars.

There is always an old and respectable look about the interior of newspaper establishments,
in whatever country you may find them. For rusty dinginess, perhaps, there is nothing to equal
a London office, with its floors strewed with newspapers from all parts of the world, parliamentary
reports, and its shelves creaking under books of all sorts, thumbed to the last extremity.
Notwithstanding these appearances, however, there is discipline--there is real order in the
apparent disorder of things. Those newspapers that are lying in heaps have to be accurately
filed; those books of reference can be pounced upon when wanted, on the instant; and as to
reports, the place of each is as well known as if all labeled and ticketed with the elaborate
accuracy of a public library.

Not less rusty and not less disorderly is the appearance of a French newspaper office; but
how different the aspect of things from what you see in England!

Over the office of the "Constitutionnel" is a dingy tricolor flag. A few broken steps lead
to a pair of folding-doors. Inside is the sanctuary of the office, guarded by that flag as
if by the honor of the country: for tricolor represents all Frenchmen, be he prince or proletarian.

You enter through a narrow passage flanked with wire cages, in which are confined for the day
the clerks who take account of advertisements and subscriptions. Melancholy objects seem these
caged birds, whose hands alone emerge at intervals through the pigeon-holes made for the purpose
of taking in money and advertisements. The universal beard and mustache that ornament their
chins, look, however, more unbusiness-like than are the men really. They are shrewd and knowing
birds that are inclosed in these wire cages.

At publishing time, boys rushing in for papers, as in London offices, are not here to be seen.
The reason of this is simple: French newspaper proprietors prefer doing their work themselves--they
will have no middle men. They serve all their customers by quarterly, yearly, or half-yearly
subscriptions. In every town in France there are subscription offices for this journal, as
well, indeed, as for all great organs of the press generally. There are regular forms set up
like registers at the post-office, and all of these are gathered at the periodical renewal
of subscriptions to the central office. The period of renewal is every fortnight.

Passing still further up the narrow and dim passage, one sees a pigeon-hole, over which is
written the word "Advertisements." This superscription is now supererogatory, for there no
advertisements are received; that branch of the journal having been farmed out to a company
at 350,000 fr. a year. This is a system which evidently saves a vast deal of trouble. The Advertising
Company of Paris has secured almost a monopoly of announcements and puffs. It has bought up
the last page of nearly every Paris journal which owns the patronage and confidence of the
advertising public of the French capital. At the end of the same dark passages are the rooms
specially used for the editors and writers. In France, journals are bought for their polemics,
and not for their news: many of them have fallen considerably, however, from the high estate
which they held in public opinion previous to the last revolution. There are men who wrote
in them to advocate and enforce principles, but in the chopping and changing times that France
lives in, it is not unusual to find the same men with different principles, interest, or gain,
being the object of each change. This result of revolution might have been expected; and though
it would be unfair to involve the whole press in a sweeping accusation, cases in point have
been sufficiently numerous to cause a want of confidence in many quarters against the entire press.

The doings of newspaper editors are not catalogued in print at Paris, as in America; but their
influence being more occult, is not the less powerful, and it is this feeling that leads people
to pay more attention to this or that leading article than to mere news. The announcement of
a treaty having been concluded between certain powers of Europe, may not lower the funds; but
if an influential journal expresses an opinion that certain dangers are to be apprehended from
the treaty in question, the exchanges will be instantly affected. This is an instance among
many that the French people are to be led in masses. Singly they have generally no ideas, either
politically or commercially.

The importance of a journal being chiefly centered in that portion specially devoted to politics,
the writers of which are supposed, right or wrong, to possess certain influences, it is not
astonishing the editorial offices have few occupants. The editorial department of the "Constitutionnel"
wears a homely appearance, but borrows importance from the influence that is wielded in it--writers
decorated with the red ribbon are not unfrequently seen at work in it. In others, and especially
in the editorial offices of some journals, may be seen, besides the pen, more offensive weapons,
such as swords and pistols. This is another result of the personal system of journalism. As
in America, the editor may find himself in the necessity of defending his arguments by arms.
He is too notorious to be able to resort to the stratagem of a well-known wit, who kept a noted
boxer in his front office to represent the editor in hostile encounters. He goes out, therefore,
to fight a duel, on which sometimes depends not only his own fate, but that of his journal.

With regard to the personal power of a newspaper name, it is only necessary in order to show
how frequently it still exists, to state that the provisional government of February, 1848,
was concocted in a newspaper office, and the revolution of 1830 was carried on by the editors
of a popular journal--that among the lower orders in France, at the present time, the names
that are looked up to as those of chiefs, belong to newspaper editors, whose leading articles
are read and listened to in cheap newspaper clubs, and whose "orders" are followed as punctually
and as certainly as those of a general by his troops. A certain class of French politicians
may be likened to sheep: they follow their "leaders."

The smallness of the number of officials in a French newspaper office is to be accounted for
from the fact that parliamentary debates are transcribed on the spot where the speeches are
made; and the reporting staff never stirs from the legislative assembly. The divers corps of
reporters for Paris journals form a corporation, with its aldermen, or syndici, and other minor
officers. Each reporter is relieved every two minutes; and while his colleagues are succeeding
each other with the same rapidity, he transcribes the notes taken during his two minutes' "turn."
The result of this revolving system is collated and arranged by a gentleman selected for the
purpose. This mode of proceeding insures, if necessary, the most verbatim transmission of an
important speech, and more equably divides the work, than does the English system, where each
reporter takes notes for half or three quarters of an hour, and spends two or three hours,
and sometimes four or five, to transcribe his notes. The French parliamentary reporter is not
the dispassionate auditor which the English one is. He applauds or condemns the orators, cheers
or hoots with all the vehemence of an excited partisan.

"Penny-a-liners" are unknown in Paris; the foreign and home intelligence being elaborated in
general news' offices, independent of the newspapers. It is there that all the provincial journals
are received, the news of the day gathered up, digested, and multiplied by means of lithography;
which is found more efficacious than the stylet and oiled "flimsy" paper of our Penny-a-liners.
It is from these latter places too, that the country journals, as well as many of the foreign
press, the German, the Belgium, and the Spanish, are supplied with Paris news. England is a
good market, as most of our newspapers are wealthy enough to have correspondents of their own.

My first visit to the "Constitutionnel" was in the day-time, and I caught the editor as he
was looking over some of his proofs. Their curious appearance led me to ask how they were struck
off, and, in order to satisfy me, he led the way up a dark stair, from which we entered upon
the composing-rooms of the premises. These, in appearance, were like all other composing-rooms
that I had seen; the forms, and cases for the type, were similar to those in London; the men
themselves had that worn and pale look which characterizes the class to which they belong,
and their pallor was not diminished by their wearing of the long beard and mustache. Their
unbuttoned shirts and bare breasts, the short clay pipe, reminded me of the heroes of the barricades;
indeed, I have every reason to know that these very compositors are generally foremost in revolutions;
and though they often print ministerial articles, they are not sharers in the opinions which
they help to spread. The head printer contracts for the printing, and chooses his men where
he can find them best. As a body, these men were provident, I was told, and all subscribed
to a fund for their poor, their orphans and widows; they form a sort of trade union, and have
very strict regulations.

I found a most remarkable want of convenience in the working of the types. For instance, there
were no galleys, or longtitudinal trays, on which to place the type when it was set up; but
when a small quantity had been put together in column on a broad copper table, a string was
passed round it to keep it together. Nor was there any hand-press for taking proofs; and here
I found the explanation of the extraordinary appearance of the proofs I had seen below. For
when I asked to have one struck off, the head printer placed a sheet of paper over the type,
and with a great brush beat it in, giving the proof a sunken and embossed appearance, which
it seemed to me would render correction exceedingly difficult. The French, it seems, care not
for improvement in this respect, any more than the Chinese, whom the brush has served in place
of a printing-press for some three thousand years.

This journal has, as I have said, from 40,000 to 50,000 subscribers, in order to serve whom
it was necessary that the presses should be at work as early as eleven o'clock at night. But
there is no difficulty in doing this, where news not being the sine quà non of journalism,
provincial and foreign intelligence is give as fresh, which in England would be considered
much behind in time. But even when commencing business at the early hour above mentioned, I
found that it had been necessary for the paper to be composed twice over, in order to save
time; and thus two printers' establishments were required to bring out each number of the journal
in sufficient time for the country circulation by early morning trains. The necessity for this
double composition is still existing in most of the French newspaper offices, but had been
obviated here lately, by the erection of a new printing-machine, which sufficed by the speed
of its working to print the given number of copies necessary for satisfying the wants of each day.

Having seen through the premises, and witnessed all that was interesting in the day-time, I
was politely requested to return in the evening, and see the remaining process of printing
the paper and getting it ready to send out from the office.

Punctually at eleven o'clock I was in the Rue du 24 Fevrier. Passing through the offices which
I had seen in the morning, I was led by a sort of guide down to some passages dimly lighted
with lamps. To the right and to the left we turned, descending stone steps into the bowels
of the earth as it seemed to me; the walls oozing with slimy damp in some parts; dry and saltpetry
in others. A bundle of keys, which were jingling in my guide's hand, made noises which reminded
me of the description of prisoners going down into the Bastile or Tower. At another moment
a sound of voices in the distance, reminded me of a scene of desperate coiners in a cellar.

These sounds grew louder, as we soon entered a vast stone cellar, in which rudely dressed men,
half-naked as to their breasts and arms, were to be seen flitting to and fro at the command
of a superior; their long beards and grimy faces, their short pipes and dirty appearance, made
them look more like devils than men, and I bethought me that here, at last, I had found that
real animal--the printer's devil.

There were two or three printing-presses in the room, only one of which was going. Its rolling
sound was like thunder in the cave, in which we stood. As paper after paper flew out from the
sides of this creaking press, they were carried to a long table and piled up in heaps.

Presently some of the stoutest men shouldered a mass of those, and my conducter and myself
following them, we entered a passage which led to another cellar, contiguous to that in which
the papers were printed. There, sitting round a number of tables, were several young women.
These women seized upon a portion of the papers brought in, and with an amazing rapidity folded
them into a small compass. In a few minutes all the papers I had seen printed were folded and
numbered off by dozens. Then comes another operation: a man came round and deposited before
each woman a bundle of little paper slips, which I found to be the addresses of the subscribers.
The women placed the labels and the paste on one side, and commenced operations. A bundle of
papers, folded, was placed before each; the forefinger, dipped in the paste, immediately touched
the paper and the label simultaneously, and the "Constitutionnel" flew out with a speed perfectly
astonishing from the hands of these women, ready to be distributed in down or country. They
were then finishing the labeling of the papers for Paris circulation; 20,000 copies scarcely
sufficing for the supply.

This was the concluding sight in my visit to a Paris Newspaper-Office.

ON THE DEATH OF AN INFANT.

TO A MOTHER.

BY THE AUTHORESS OF "THE DISCIPLINE OF LIFE".

    His languid eyes are closing,
      On the pale, placid cheek,
    The lashes dark reposing,
      So wearily, so weak.
    He gasps with failing breath,
    A faint and feeble strife with death;
    Fainter and fainter still--'tis past.
    That one soft sigh--the last.

    Thy watching and thy fearing,
      Mother, is over now;
    The seal of death is bearing
      That pale but angel brow,
    And now in the deep calm
    That follows days of wild alarm,
    Thy heart sinks down, and weeps, and weeps,
    O'er him who silent sleeps.

    Oh, Mother, hush thy crying,
      The ill of life is o'er,
    E'en now his wings are flying
      Unto a happy shore;
    Those wings of stainless white
    Unfolded ne'er to earthly sight,
    He spreads them now, they bear him high
    Unto the angel company.

    From sight of evil shrinking,
      From thought of grief like thine
    At the first summons sinking
      Into the arms divine.
    Oh! thou who knowest life,
    Temptation, trial, toil and strife,
    Wilt thou not still thine aching breast
    To bless his early rest?

[From the Autobiography of Leigh Hunt.]

RECOLLECTIONS OF EMINENT MEN.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

Just after this period I fell in with a new set of acquaintances, accounts of whom may not
be uninteresting. I forget what it was that introduced me to Mr. Hill, proprietor of the Monthly
Mirror; but at his house at Sydenham I used to meet his editor, Du Bois; Thomas Campbell, who
was his neighbor; and the two Smiths, authors of The Rejected Addresses. I saw also Theodore
Hook, and Mathews, the comedian. Our host was a jovial bachelor, plump and rosy as an abbot;
and no abbot could have presided over a more festive Sunday. The wine flowed merrily and long;
the discourse kept pace with it; and next morning, in returning to town, we felt ourselves
very thirsty. A pump by the road-side, with a plash round it, was a bewitching sight.

They who knew Mr. Campbell only as the author of Gertrude of Wyoming, and the Pleasures of
Hope, would not have suspected him to be a merry companion, overflowing with humor and anecdote,
and any thing but fastidious. These Scotch poets have always something in reserve. It is the
only point in which the major part of them resemble their countrymen. The mistaken character
which the lady formed of Thomson from his Seasons is well known. He let part of the secret
out in his Castle of Indolence; and the more he let out, the more honor it did to the simplicity
and cordiality of the poet's nature, though not always to the elegance of it. Allan Ramsay
knew his friends Gay and Somerville as well in their writings, as he did when he came to be
personally acquainted with them; but Allan, who had bustled up from a barber's shop into a
bookseller's, was "a cunning shaver;" and nobody would have guessed the author of the Gentle
Shepherd to be penurious. Let none suppose that any insinuation to that effect is intended
against Campbell. He was one of the few men whom I could at any time have walked half a dozen
miles through the snow to spend an evening with; and I could no more do this with a penurious
man than I could with a sulky one. I know but of one fault he had, besides an extreme cautiousness
in his writings, and that one was national, a matter of words, and amply overpaid by a stream
of conversation, lively, piquant, and liberal, not the less interesting for occasionally betraying
an intimacy with pain, and for a high and somewhat strained tone of voice, like a man speaking
with suspended breath, and in the habit of subduing his feelings. No man felt more kindly toward
his fellow-creatures, or took less credit for it. When he indulged in doubt and sarcasm, and
spoke contemptuously of things in general, he did it, partly, no doubt, out of actual dissatisfaction,
but more perhaps than he suspected, out of a fear of being thought weak and sensitive; which
is a blind that the best men very commonly practice. He professed to be hopeless and sarcastic,
and took pains all the while to set up a university (the London).

When I first saw this eminent person, he gave me the idea of a French Virgil. Not that he was
like a Frenchman, much less the French translator of Virgil. I found him as handsome, as the
Abbé Delille is said to have been ugly. But he seemed to me to embody a Frenchman's ideal notion
of the Latin poet; something a little more cut and dry than I had looked for; compact and elegant,
critical and acute, with a consciousness of authorship upon him; a taste over-anxious not to
commit itself, and refining and diminishing nature as in a drawing-room mirror. This fancy
was strengthened in the course of conversation, by his expatiating on the greatness of Racine.
I think he had a volume of the French poet in his hand. His skull was sharply cut and fine;
with plenty, according to the phrenologists, both of the reflective and amative organs: and
his poetry will bear them out. For a lettered solitude, and a bridal properly got up, both
according to law and luxury, commend us to the lovely Gertrude of Wyoming. His face and person
were rather on a small scale; his features regular; his eye lively and penetrating; and when
he spoke, dimples played about his mouth; which, nevertheless, had something restrained and
close in it. Some gentle puritan seemed to have crossed the breed, and to have left a stamp
on his face, such as we often see in the female Scotch face rather than the male. But he appeared
not at all grateful for this; and when his critics and his Virgilianism were over, very unlike
a puritan he talked! He seemed to spite his restrictions; and, out of the natural largeness
of his sympathy with things high and low, to break at once out of Delille's Virgil into Cotton's,
like a boy let loose from school. When I had the pleasure of hearing him afterward, I forgot
his Virgilianisms, and thought only of the delightful companion, the unaffected philanthropist,
and the creator of a beauty worth all the heroines in Racine.

Campbell tasted pretty sharply of the good and ill of the present state of society, and, for
a bookman, had beheld strange sights. He witnessed a battle in Germany from the top of a convent
(on which battle he has left us a noble ode); and he saw the French cavalry enter a town, wiping
their bloody swords on the horses' manes. He was in Germany a second time--I believe to purchase
books; for in addition to his classical scholarship, and his other languages, he was a reader
of German. The readers there, among whom he is popular, both for his poetry and his love of
freedom, crowded about him with affectionate zeal; and they gave him, what he did not dislike,
a good dinner. Like many of the great men in Germany, Schiller, Wieland, and others, he did
not scruple to become editor of a magazine; and his name alone gave it a recommendation of
the greatest value, and such as made it a grace to write under him.

I remember, one day at Sydenham, Mr. Theodore Hook coming in unexpectedly to dinner, and amusing
us very much with his talent at extempore verse. His extempore verses were really surprising.
It is easy enough to extemporize in Italian--one only wonders how, in a language in which every
thing conspires to render verse-making easy, and it is difficult to avoid rhyming, this talent
should be so much cried up--but in English it is another matter. I have known but one other
person besides Hook, who could extemporize in English; and he wanted the confidence to do it
in public. Of course, I speak of rhyming. Extempore blank verse, with a little practice, would
be found as easy in English as rhyming is in Italian. In Hook the faculty was very unequivocal.
He could not have been aware of all the visitors, still less of the subject of conversation
when he came in, and he talked his full share till called upon; yet he ran his jokes and his
verses upon us all in the easiest manner, saying something characteristic of every body, or
avoiding it with a pun; and he introduced so agreeably a piece of village scandal upon which
the party had been rallying Campbell, that the poet, though not unjealous of his dignity, was,
perhaps, the most pleased of us all. Theodore afterward sat down to the pianoforte, and enlarging
upon this subject, made an extempore parody of a modern opera, introducing sailors and their
clap-traps, rustics, &c., and making the poet and his supposed flame, the hero and heroine.
He parodied music as well as words, giving us the most received cadences and flourishes, and
calling to mind (not without some hazard to his filial duties) the commonplaces of the pastoral
songs and duets of the last half century; so that if Mr. Dignum, the Damon of Vauxhall, had
been present, he would have doubted whether to take it as an affront or a compliment. Campbell
certainly took the theme of the parody as a compliment; for having drank a little more wine
than usual that evening, and happening to wear a wig on account of having lost his hair by
a fever, he suddenly took off the wig, and dashed it at the head of the performer, exclaiming,
"You dog! I'll throw my laurels at you."

Mathews, the comedian, I had the pleasure of seeing at Mr. Hill's several times, and of witnessing
his imitations, which, admirable as they were on the stage, were still more so in private.
His wife occasionally came with him, with her handsome eyes, and charitably made tea for us.
Many years afterward I had the pleasure of seeing them at their own table; and I thought that
while Time, with unusual courtesy, had spared the sweet countenance of the lady, he had given
more force and interest to that of the husband in the very plowing of it up. Strong lines had
been cut, and the face stood them well. I had seldom been more surprised than on coming close
to Mathews on that occasion, and seeing the bust which he possessed in his gallery of his friend
Liston. Some of these comic actors, like comic writers, are as unfarcical as can be imagined
in their interior. The taste for humor comes to them by the force of contrast. The last time
I had seen Mathews, his face appeared to me insignificant to what it was then. On the former
occasion he looked like an irritable in-door pet: on the latter, he seemed to have been grappling
with the world, and to have got vigor by it. His face had looked out upon the Atlantic, and
said to the old waves, "Buffet on; I have seen trouble as well as you." The paralytic affection,
or whatever it was, that twisted his mouth when young, had formerly appeared to be master of
his face, and given it a character of indecision and alarm. It now seemed a minor thing; a
twist in a piece of old oak. And what a bust was Liston's! The mouth and chin, with the throat
under it, hung like an old bag; but the upper part of the head was as fine as possible. There
was a speculation, a lookout, and even an elevation of character in it, as unlike the Liston
on the stage, as Lear is to King Pippin. One might imagine Laberius to have had such a face.

The reasons why Mathews's imitations were still better in private than in public were, that
he was more at his ease personally, more secure of his audience ("fit though few"), and able
to interest them with traits of private character, which could not have been introduced on
the stage. He gave, for instance, to persons who he thought could take it rightly, a picture
of the manners and conversation of Sir Walter Scott, highly creditable to that celebrated person,
and calculated to add regard to admiration. His commonest imitations were not superficial.
Something of the mind and character of the individual was always insinuated, often with a dramatic
dressing, and plenty of sauce piquante. At Sydenham he used to give us a dialogue among the
actors, each of whom found fault with another for some defect or excess of his own. Kemble
objecting to stiffness, Munden to grimace, and so on. His representation of Incledon was extraordinary:
his nose seemed actually to become aquiline. It is a pity I can not put upon paper, as represented
by Mr. Mathews, the singular gabblings of that actor, the lax and sailor-like twist of mind,
with which every thing hung upon him; and his profane pieties in quoting the Bible; for which,
and swearing, he seemed to have an equal reverence.

One morning, after stopping all night at this pleasant house, I was getting up to breakfast,
when I heard the noise of a little boy having his face washed. Our host was a merry bachelor,
and to the rosiness of a priest might, for aught I knew, have added the paternity; but I had
never heard of it, and still less expected to find a child in his house. More obvious and obstreperous
proofs, however, of the existence of a boy with a dirty face, could not have been met with.
You heard the child crying and objecting; then the woman remonstrating; then the cries of the
child snubbed and swallowed up in the hard towel; and at intervals out came his voice bubbling
and deploring, and was again swallowed up. At breakfast, the child being pitied, I ventured
to speak about it, and was laughing and sympathizing in perfect good faith, when Mathews came
in, and I found that the little urchin was he.

Of James Smith, a fair, stout, fresh-colored man, with round features, I recollect little,
except that he used to read to us trim verses, with rhymes as pat as butter. The best of his
verses are in the Rejected Addresses; and they are excellent. Isaac Hawkins Browne with his
Pipe of Tobacco, and all the rhyming jeux-d'esprit in all the Tracts, are extinguished in the
comparison; not excepting the Probationary Odes. Mr. Fitzgerald found himself bankrupt in non
sequiturs; Crabbe could hardly have known which was which, himself or his parodist; and Lord
Byron confessed to me, that the summing up of his philosophy, to wit, that

    "Naught is every thing, and every thing is naught,"

was very posing. Mr. Smith would sometimes repeat after dinner, with his brother Horace, an
imaginary dialogue, stuffed full of incongruities, that made us roll with laughter. His ordinary
verse and prose were too full of the ridicule of city pretensions. To be superior to any thing,
it should not always be running in one's head.

His brother Horace was delicious. Lord Byron used to say, that this epithet should be applied
only to eatables; and that he wondered a friend of his (I forget who) that was critical in
matters of eating, should use it in any other sense. I know not what the present usage may
be in the circles, but classical authority is against his lordship, from Cicero downward; and
I am content with the modern warrant of another noble wit, the famous Lord Peterborough, who,
in his fine, open way, said of Fenelon, that he was such a "delicious creature, he was forced
to get away from him, else he would have made him pious!" I grant there is something in the
word delicious which may be said to comprise a reference to every species of pleasant taste.
It is at once a quintessence and a compound; and a friend, to deserve the epithet, ought, perhaps,
to be capable of delighting us as much over our wine, as on graver occasions. Fenelon himself
could do this, with all his piety; or rather he could do it because his piety was of the true
sort, and relished of every thing that was sweet and affectionate. A finer nature than Horace
Smith's, except in the single instance of Shelley, I never met with in man; nor even in that
instance, all circumstances considered, have I a right to say that those who knew him as intimately
as I did the other, would not have had the same reasons to love him. Shelley said to me once,
"I know not what Horace Smith must take me for sometimes: I am afraid he must think me a strange
fellow: but is it not odd, that the only truly generous person I ever knew, who had money to
be generous with, should be a stockbroker! And he writes poetry, too," continued Shelley, his
voice rising in a fervor of astonishment; "he writes poetry and pastoral dramas, and yet knows
how to make money, and does make it, and is still generous!" Shelley had reason to like him.
Horace Smith was one of the few men, who, through a cloud of detraction, and through all that
difference of conduct from the rest of the world, which naturally excites obloquy, discerned
the greatness of my friend's character. Indeed, he became a witness to a very unequivocal proof
of it, which I shall mention by-and-by. The mutual esteem was accordingly very great, and arose
from circumstances most honorable to both parties. "I believe," said Shelley on another occasion,
"that I have only to say to Horace Smith that I want a hundred pounds or two, and he would
send it me without any eye to its being returned; such faith has he that I have something within
me, beyond what the world supposes, and that I could only ask his money for a good purpose."
And Shelley would have sent for it accordingly, if the person for whom it was intended had
not said Nay. I will now mention the circumstance which first gave my friend a regard for Horace
Smith. It concerns the person just mentioned, who is a man of letters. It came to Mr. Smith's
knowledge, many years ago, that this person was suffering under a pecuniary trouble. He knew
little of him at the time, but had met him occasionally; and he availed himself of this circumstance
to write him a letter as full of delicacy and cordiality as it could hold, making it a matter
of grace to accept a bank-note of £100 which he inclosed. I speak on the best authority, that
of the obliged person himself; who adds that he not only did accept the money, but felt as
light and happy under the obligation, as he has felt miserable under the very report of being
obliged to some; and he says, that nothing could induce him to withhold his name, but a reason,
which the generous, during his lifetime, would think becoming.

I have said that Horace Smith was a stockbroker. He left business with a fortune, and went
to live in France, where, if he did not increase, he did not seriously diminish it; and France
added to the pleasant stock of his knowledge.

On returning to England, he set about exerting himself in a manner equally creditable to his
talents and interesting to the public. I would not insult either the modesty or the understanding
of my friend while he was alive, by comparing him with the author of Old Mortality and Guy
Mannering: but I ventured to say, and I repeat, that the earliest of his novels, Brambletye
House, ran a hard race with the novel of Woodstock, and that it contained more than one character
not unworthy of the best volumes of Sir Walter. I allude to the ghastly troubles of the Regicide
in his lone house; the outward phlegm and merry inward malice of Winky Boss (a happy name),
who gravely smoked a pipe with his mouth, and laughed with his eyes; and, above all, to the
character of the princely Dutch merchant, who would cry out that he should be ruined, at seeing
a few nutmegs dropped from a bag, and then go and give a thousand ducats for an antique. This
is hitting the high mercantile character to a niceity--minute and careful in its means, princely
in its ends. If the ultimate effect of commerce (permulti transibunt, &c.) were not something
very different from what its pursuers imagine, the character would be a dangerous one to society
at large, because it throws a gloss over the spirit of money-getting; but, meanwhile, nobody
could paint it better, or has a greater right to recommend it, than he who has been the first
to make it a handsome portrait.

The personal appearance of Horace Smith, like that of most of the individuals I have met with,
was highly indicative of his character. His figure was good and manly, inclining to the robust;
and his countenance extremely frank and cordial; sweet without weakness. I have been told he
was irascible. If so, it must have been no common offense that could have irritated him. He
had not a jot of it in his appearance.

Another set of acquaintances which I made at this time used to assemble at the hospitable table
of Mr. Hunter, the bookseller, in St. Paul's Church-yard. They came, as of old, on the Friday.

Agreeably to this over-wrought manner, he was reckoned, I believe, not quite so bold as he
might have been. He painted horrible pictures, as children tell horrible stories; and was frightened
at his own lay-figures. Yet he would hardly have talked as he did about his terrors, had he
been as timid as some supposed him. With the affected, impression is the main thing, let it
be produced how it may. A student of the Academy told me, that Mr. Fuseli coming in one night,
when a solitary candle had been put on the floor in a corner of the room, to produce some effect
or other, he said it looked "like a damned soul." This was by way of being Dantesque, as Michael
Angelo was. Fuseli was an ingenious caricaturist of that master, making great bodily displays
of mental energy, and being ostentatious with his limbs and muscles, in proportion as he could
not draw them. A leg or an arm was to be thrust down one's throat, because he knew we should
dispute the truth of it. In the indulgence of this willfulness of purpose, generated partly
by impatience of study, partly by want of sufficient genius, and, no doubt, also by a sense
of superiority to artists who could do nothing but draw correctly, he cared for no time, place,
or circumstance, in his pictures. A set of prints, after his designs, for Shakspeare and Cowper,
exhibit a chaos of mingled genius and absurdity, such as, perhaps, was never before seen. He
endeavored to bring Michael Angelo's apostles and prophets, with their superhuman ponderousness
of intention, into the common-places of modern life. Yet there is real genius in his designs
for Milton, though disturbed, as usual, by strainings after the energetic. His most extraordinary
mistake, after all, is said to have been on the subject of his coloring. It was a sort of livid
green, like brass diseased. Yet they say, that when praised for one of his pictures, he would
modestly observe, "It is a pretty color." This might have been thought a jest on his part,
if remarkable stories were not told of the mistakes made by other people with regard to color.
Sight seems the least agreed upon, of all the senses. Perhaps Bonnycastle thought more highly
of his talents than the amount of them strictly warranted; a mistake to which scientific men
appear to be more liable than others, the universe they work in being so large, and their universality
(in Bacon's sense of the word) being often so small. But the delusion was not only pardonable,
but desirable, in a man so zealous in the performance of his duties, and so much of a human
being to all about him, as Bonnycastle was. Some of his stories were a little romantic, and
no less authentic. He had an anecdote of a Scotchman, who boasted of being descended from the
Admirable Crichton; in proof of which, the Scotchman said he had "a grit quantity of table-leenen
in his possassion, marked A. C., Admirable Creechton." Fielding did not love his bottle the
less for being obliged to lecture the drunken. Nor did his son, who succeeded him in taste
and office. I know not how a former poet-laureat, Mr. Pye, managed; another man of letters
who was fain to accept a situation of this kind. Having been a man of fortune and a member
of Parliament, and loving his Horace to boot, he could hardly have done without his wine. I
saw him once in a state of scornful indignation at being interrupted in the perusal of a manuscript
by the monitions of his police-officers, who were obliged to remind him, over and over again,
that he was a magistrate, and that the criminal multitude were in waiting. Every time the door
opened, he threatened and he implored

    "Otium divos rogat in patenti
    Prensus."

Had you quoted this to Mr. Kinnaird, his eyes would have sparkled with good-fellowship: he
would have finished the verse and the bottle with you, and proceeded to as many more as your
head could stand. Poor fellow, the last time I saw him, he was an apparition formidably substantial.
The door of our host's dining-room opened without my hearing it, and, happening to turn round,
I saw a figure in a great coat literally almost as broad as it was long, and scarcely able
to articulate. He was dying of a dropsy, and was obliged to revive himself, before he was fit
to converse, by the wine that was killing him. But he had cares besides, and cares of no ordinary
description; and, for my part, I will not blame even his wine for killing him, unless his cares
could have done it more agreeably. After dinner that day, he was comparatively himself again,
quoted his Horace as usual, talked of lords and courts with a relish, and begged that God save
the King might be played to him on the piano-forte; to which he listened, as if his soul had
taken its hat off. I believe he would have liked to die to God save the King, and to have "waked
and found those visions true."

[From Colburn's New Monthly Magazine.]

ODE TO THE SUN.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

The main object of this poem is to impress the beautiful and animating fact, that the greatest
visible agent in our universe, the Sun, is also one of the most beneficent; and thus to lead
to the inference, that spiritual greatness and goodness are in like proportion, and its Maker
beneficence itself, through whatever apparent inconsistencies he may work. The Sun is at once
the greatest Might and Right that we behold.

A secondary intention of the poem is to admonish the carelessness with which people in general
regard the divinest wonders of the creation, in consequence of being used to their society--this
great and glorious mystery, the Sun, not excepted. "Familiarity," it is said, "breeds contempt."
To which somebody emphatically added, "With the contemptible." I am far from meaning to say
that all who behold the Sun with too little thought are contemptible. Habit does strange things,
even with the most reflecting. But of this I am sure, that in proportion as any body wishes
to prove himself worthy of his familiarity with great objects, he will not be sorry to be reminded
of their greatness, especially as reverence need not diminish delight; for a heavenly "Father"
can no more desire the admiration of him to be oppressive to us, than an earthly one; else
fatherliness would be unfatherly, and sunshine itself a gloom.

When the Florentines crowded to some lectures of Galileo, because they were on a comet which
had just made its appearance, the philosopher was bold enough to rebuke them for showing such
a childish desire to hear him on this particular subject, when they were in the habit of neglecting
the marvels of creation which daily presented themselves to their eyes.

ODE TO THE SUN.

      Presence divine! Great lord of this our sphere!
        Bringer of light, and life, and joy, and beauty--
      God midst a million gods, that far and near
        Hold each his orbs in rounds of rapturous duty;[A]
      Oh, never may I, while I lift this brow,
    Believe in any god less like a god than thou.

      Thou art the mightiest of all things we see,
        And thou, the mightiest, art among the kindest;
      The planets, dreadfully and easily,
        About thee, as in sacred sport, thou windest;
      And thine illustrious hands, for all that power,
    Light soft on the babe's cheek, and nurse the budding flower.

      They say that in thine orb is movement dire,
        Tempest and flame, as on a million oceans:
      Well may it be, thou heart of heavenly fire;
        Such looks and smiles befit a god's emotions,
      We know thee gentle in the midst of all,
    By those smooth orbs in heaven, this sweet fruit on the wall.

      I feel thee, here, myself, soft on my hand;
        Around me is thy mute, celestial presence,
      Reverence and awe would make me fear to stand
        Within thy beam, were not all Good its essence:
      Were not all Good its essence, and from thence
    All good, glad heart deriv'd, and child-like confidence.

      I know that there is Fear, and Grief, and Pain,
        Strange foes, though stranger guardian friends of Pleasure:
      I know that poor men lose, and rich men gain,
        Though oft th' unseen adjusts the seeming measure;
      I know that Guile may teach, while Truth must bow,
    Or bear contempt and shame on his benignant brow.

      But while thou sit'st, mightier than all, O Sun,
        And e'en when sharpest felt, still throned in kindness.
      I see that greatest and that best are one,
        And that all else works tow'rd it, though in blindness
      Evil I see, and Fear, and Grief, and Pain,
    Work under Good, their lord, embodied in thy reign.

      I see the molten gold darkly refine
        O'er the great sea of human joy and sorrow,
      I bear the deep voice of a grief divine
        Calling sweet notes to some diviner morrow,
      And though I know not how the two may part,
    I feel thy rays, O Sun, write it upon my heart.

      Upon my heart thou writest it, as thou,
        Heart of these worlds, art writ on by a greater:
      Beam'd on with love from some still mightier brow,
        Perhaps by that which waits some new relater;
      Some amaz'd man, who sees new splendors driven
    Thick round a Sun of suns, and fears he looks at heaven.[B]

      'Tis easy for vain man, Time's growing child,
        To dare pronounce on thy material seeming:
      Heav'n, for its own good ends, is mute and mild
        To many a wrong of man's presumptuous dreaming.
      Matter, or mind, of either, what knows he?
    Or how with more than both thine orb divine may be!

      Art thou a god, indeed? or thyself heaven?
        And do we taste thee here in light and flowers?
      Art thou the first sweet place, where hearts, made even,
        Sing tender songs in earth-remembering bowers?
      Enough, my soul. Enough through thee, O Sun,
    To learn the sure good song--Greatest and Best are one.

      Enough for man to work, to hope, to love,
        Copying thy zeal untir'd, thy smile unscorning:
      Glad to see gods thick as the stars above,
        Bright with the God of gods' eternal morning;
      Round about whom perchance endless they go,
    Ripening their earths to heavens, as love and wisdom grow.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Rapturous--transporting, carrying away. The reader can take the word either in its spiritual
or material sense, or both; according as he agrees or disagrees with Keppler and others respecting
the nature of the planetary bodies.

[B] Alluding to a central sun; that is to say, a sun governing other suns, which is supposed
to exist in the Constellation Hercules.

[From Household Words.]

TWO-HANDED DICK THE STOCKMAN.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE BUSH.

Traveling in the Bush one rainy season, I put up for the night at a small, weather-bound inn,
perched half way up a mountain range, where several Bush servants on the tramp had also taken
refuge from the down-pouring torrents. I had had a long and fatiguing ride over a very bad
country, so, after supper, retired into the furthest corner of the one room, that served for
"kitchen, and parlor, and all," and there, curled up in my blanket, in preference to the bed
offered by our host, which was none of the cleanest; with half shut eyes, I glumly puffed at
my pipe in silence, allowing the hubble-bubble of the Bushmen's gossip to flow through my unnoting
ears.

Fortunately for my peace, the publican's stock of rum had been some time exhausted, and as
I was the latest comer, all the broiling and frying had ceased, but a party sat round the fire,
evidently set in for a spell at "yarning." At first the conversation ran in ordinary channels,
such as short reminiscences of old world rascality, perils in the Bush. Till at length a topic
arose which seemed to have a paramount interest for all. This was the prowess of a certain
Two-handed Dick the Stockman.

"Yes, yes; I'll tell you what it is, mates," said one; "this confounded reading and writing,
that don't give plain fellows like you and me a chance; now if it were to come to fighting
for a living, I don't care whether it was half-minute time and London rules, rough and tumble,
or single stick, or swords and bayonets, or tomahawks--I'm dashed if you and me, and Two-handed
Dick, wouldn't take the whole Legislative Council, the Governor and Judges--one down t'other
come on. Though, to be sure, Dick could thrash any two of us."

I was too tired to keep awake, and dozed off, to be again and again disturbed with cries of
"Bravo, Dick!" "That's your sort!" "Houray, Dick!" all signifying approval of that individual's
conduct in some desperate encounter, which formed the subject of a stirring narrative.

For months after that night this idea of Two-handed Dick haunted me, but the bustle of establishing
a new station at length drove it out of my head.

I suppose a year had elapsed from the night when the fame of the double-fisted stockman first
reached me. I had to take a three days' journey to buy a score of fine-wooled rams, through
a country quite new to me, which I chose because it was a short-cut recently discovered. I
got over, the first day, forty-five miles comfortably. The second day, in the evening, I met
an ill-looking fellow walking with a broken musket, and his arm in a sling. He seemed sulky,
and I kept my hand on my double-barreled pistol all the time I was talking to him; he begged
a little tea and sugar, which I could not spare, but I threw him a fig of tobacco. In answer
to my questions about his arm, he told me, with a string of oaths, that a bull, down in some
mimosa flats, a day's journey ahead, had charged him, flung him into a water-hole, broken his
arm, and made him lose his sugar and tea bag. Bulls in Australia are generally quiet, but this
reminded me that some of the Highland black cattle imported by the Australian Company, after
being driven off by a party of Gully Rakees (cattle stealers), had escaped into the mountains
and turned quite wild. Out of this herd, which was of a breed quite unsuited to the country,
a bull sometimes, when driven off by a stronger rival, would descend to the mimosa flats, and
wander about, solitary and dangerously fierce.

It struck me, as I rode off, that it was quite as well my friend's arm and musket had been
disabled, for he did not look the sort of man it would be pleasant to meet in a thicket of
scrub, if he fancied the horse you rode. So, keeping one eye over my shoulder, and a sharp
look-out for any other traveler of the same breed, I rode off at a brisk pace. I made out afterward
that my foot friend was Jerry Johnson, hung for shooting a bullock-driver the following year.

At sun-down, when I reached the hut where I had intended to sleep, I found it deserted, and
so full of fleas, I thought it better to camp out; so I hobbled out old Gray-tail on the best
piece of grass I could find, which was very poor indeed.

The next morning, when I went to look for my horse, he was nowhere to be found. I put the saddle
on my head and tracked him for hours; it was evident the poor beast had been traveling away
in search of grass. I walked until my feet were one mass of blisters; at length, when about
to give up the search in despair, having quite lost the track on stony ground, I came upon
the marks quite fresh in a bit of swampy ground, and a few hundred yards further found Master
Gray-tail rolling in the mud of a nearly dry water-hole as comfortably as possible. I put down
the saddle and called him; at that moment I heard a loud roar and crash in a scrub behind me,
and out rushed, at a terrific pace, a black Highland bull charging straight at me. I had only
just time to throw myself on one side flat on the ground as he thundered by me. My next move
was to scramble among a small clump of trees, one of great size, the rest were mere saplings.

The bull having missed his mark, turned again, and first revenged himself by tossing my saddle
up in the air, until, fortunately, it lodged in some bushes; then, having smelt me out, he
commenced a circuit round the trees, stamping, pawing, and bellowing frightfully. With his
red eyes, and long, sharp horns, he looked like a demon; I was quite unarmed, having broken
my knife the day before; my pistols were in my holsters, and I was wearied to death. My only
chance consisted in dodging him round the trees until he should be tired out. Deeply did I
regret having left my faithful dogs Boomer and Bounder behind.

The bull charged again and again, sometimes coming with such force against the tree that he
fell on his knees, sometimes bending the saplings behind which I stood until his horns almost
touched me. There was not a branch I could lay hold of to climb up. How long this awful game
of "touchwood" lasted, I know not; it seemed hours; after the first excitement of self-preservation
passed off, weariness again took possession of me, and it required all the instinct of self-preservation
to keep me on my feet; several times the bull left me for a few seconds, pacing suddenly away,
bellowing his malignant discontent; but before I could cross over to a better position he always
came back at full speed. My tongue clave to the roof of my mouth, my eyes grew hot and misty,
my knees trembled under me, I felt it impossible to hold out until dark. At length I grew desperate,
and determined to make a run for the opposite covert the moment the bull turned toward the
water-hole again. I felt sure I was doomed, and thought of it until I grew indifferent. The
bull seemed to know I was worn out, and grew more fierce and rapid in his charges, but just
when I was going to sit down under the great tree, and let him do his worst, I heard the rattle
of a horse among the rocks above, and a shout that sounded like the voice of an angel. Then
came the barking of a dog, and the loud reports of a stockwhip, but the bull, with his devilish
eyes fixed on me, never moved.

Up came a horseman at full speed; crack fell the lash on the black bull's hide; out spirted
the blood in a long streak. The bull turned savagely--charged the horseman. The horse wheeled
round just enough to baffle him--no more--again the lash descended, cutting like a long, flexible
razor, but the mad bull was not to be beaten off by a whip: he charged again and again; but
he had met his match; right and left, as needed, the horse turned, sometimes pivoting on his
hind, sometime on his fore-legs.

The stockman shouted something, leapt from his horse, and strode forward to meet the bull with
an open knife between his teeth. As the beast lowered his head to charge, he seemed to catch
him by the horns. There was a struggle, a cloud of dust, a stamping like two strong men wrestling--I
could not see clearly; but the next moment the bull was on his back, the blood welling from
his throat, his limbs quivering in death.

The stranger, covered with mud and dust, came to me, saying as unconcernedly as if he had been
killing a calf in a slaughter-house, "He's dead enough, young man; he won't trouble any body
any more."

I walked two or three paces toward the dead beast; my senses left me--I fainted.

When I came to myself, my horse was saddled, bridled, and tied up to a bush. My stranger friend
was busy flaying the bull.

"I would like to have a pair of boots out of the old devil," he observed, in answer to my inquiring
look, "before the dingoes and the eagle hawks dig into his carcase."

We rode out of the flats up a gentle ascent, as night was closing in. I was not in talking
humor; but I said, "You have saved my life."

"Well, I rather think I have," but this was muttered in an under tone; "it's not the first
I have saved, or taken either, for that matter."

I was too much worn out for thanking much, but I pulled out a silver hunting-watch and put
it into his hand. He pushed it back, almost roughly, saying, "No, sir, not now; I shalln't
take money or money's worth for that, though I may ask something some time. It's nothing, after
all. I owed the old black devil a grudge for spoiling a blood filly of mine; besides, though
I didn't know it when I rode up first, and went at the beast to take the devil out of myself
as much as any thing--I rather think that you are the young gentleman that ran through the
Bush at night to Manchester Dan's hut, when his wife was bailed up by the Blacks, and shot
one-eyed Jackey, in spite of the Governor's proclamation."

"You seem to know me," I answered; "pray, may I ask who you are, if it is a fair question,
for I can not remember ever having seen you before."

"Oh, they call me 'Two-handed Dick,' in this country."

The scene in the roadside inn flashed on my recollection. Before I could say another word,
a sharp turn round the shoulder of the range we were traversing, brought us in sight of the
fire of a shepherd's hut. The dogs ran out barking; we hallooed and cracked our whips, and
the hut-keeper came to meet us with a fire-stick in his hand.

"Lord bless my heart and soul! Dick, is that thee at last? Well, I thought thee were't never
coming;" cried the hut-keeper, a little man, who came limping forward very fast with the help
of a crutch-handled stick. "I say, Missis, Missis, here's Dick, here's Two-handed Dick."

This was uttered in a shrill, hysterical sort of scream. Out came "Missis" at the top of her
speed, and began hugging Dick as he was getting off his horse, her arms reached a little above
his waist, laughing and crying, both at the same time, while her husband kept fast hold of
the stockman's hand, muttering, "Lord, Dick I'm so glad to see thee." Meanwhile, the dogs barking,
and a flock of weaned lambs just penned, ba'aing, made such a riot, that I was fairly bewildered.
So, feeling myself one too many, I slipped away, leading off both the horses to the other side
of the hut, where I found a shepherd, who showed me a grass paddock to feed the nags a bit
before turning them out for the night. I said to him, "What is the meaning of all this going
on between your mate and his wife, and the big stockman?"

"The meaning, stranger: why, that's Two-handed Dick, and my mate is little Jemmy that he saved,
and Charley Anvils at the same time, when the blacks slaughtered the rest of the party, near
on a dozen of them."

On returning, I found supper smoking on the table, and we had made a regular "bush" meal. The
stockman then told my adventure, and, when they had exchanged all the news, I had little difficulty
in getting the hut-keeper to the point I wanted; the great difficulty lay in preventing man
and wife from telling the same story at the same time. However, by judicious management, I
was able to gather the following account of Two-handed Dick's Fight and Ride.

"When first I met Dick he was second stockman to Mr. Ronalds, and I took a shepherd's place
there; it was my second place in this country, for you see I left the old country in a bad
year for the weaving trade, and was one of the first batch of free emigrants that came out,
the rest were chiefly Irish. I found shepherding suit me very well, and my missis was hut-keeper.
Well, Dick and I got very thick; I used to write his letters for him, and read in an evening,
and so on. Well, though I undertook a shepherd's place, I soon found I could handle an ax pretty
well. Throwing the shuttle gives the use of the arms, you see, and Dick put into my head that
I could make more money if I took to making fences; I sharpening the rails, and making the
mortice-holes, and a stranger man setting them. I did several jobs at odd times, and was thought
very handy. Well, Mr. Ronalds, during the time of the great drought, five years ago, determined
to send up a lot of cattle to the north, where he had heard there was plenty of water and grass,
and form a station there. Dick was picked out as stockman; a young gentleman, a relative of
Mr. Ronalds, went as head of the party, a very foolish, conceited young man, who knew very
little of bush life, and would not be taught. There were eight splitters and fencers, besides
Charley Anvils, the blacksmith, and two bullock drivers.

"I got leave to go because I wanted to see the country, and Dick asked. My missis was sorely
against my going. I was to be storekeeper, as well as do any farming and work, if wanted.

"We had two drays, and were well armed. We were fifteen days going up before we got into the
new country, and then we traveled five days; sometimes twenty-four hours without water, and
sometimes had to unload the drays two or three times a day, to get over creeks. The fifth day
we came to very fine land; the grass met over our horses' necks, and the river was a chain
of water-holes, all full, and as clear as crystal. The kangaroos were hopping about as plentiful
as rabbits in a warren; and the grass by the river side had regular tracks of the emus, where
they went down to drink.

"We had been among signs of the blacks, too, for five days, but had not seen any thing of them,
although we could hear the devils cooing at nightfall, calling to each other. We kept regular
watch and watch at first--four sentinels, and every man sleeping with his gun at hand.

"Now, as it was Dick's business to tail (follow) the cattle, five hundred head, I advised him
to have his musket sawed off in the barrel, so as to be a more handy size for using on horseback.
He took my advice; and Charley Anvils made a very good job of it, so that he could bring it
under his arm when hanging at his back from a rope sling, and fire with one hand. It was lucky
I thought of it, as it turned out.

"At length the overseer fixed on a spot for the station. It was very well for water and grass,
and a very pretty view, as he said, but it was too near a thicket where the blacks would lie
in ambush, for safety. The old bushmen wanted it planted on a neck of land, where the waters
protected it all but one side, and there a row of fence would have made it secure.

"Well, we set to work, and soon had a lot of tall trees down. Charley put up his forge and
his grindstone, to keep the ax sharp, and I staid with him. Dick went tailing the cattle, and
the overseer sat on a log, and looked on. The second day a mob of blacks came down on the opposite
side of the river. They were quite wild, regular myals, but some of our men with green branches,
went and made peace with them. They liked our bread and sugar; and after a short time we had
a lot of them helping to draw rails, fishing for us, bringing wild honey, kangaroos, rats,
and firewood, in return for butter and food, so we began to be less careful about our arms.
We gave them iron tomahawks, and they soon found out that they could cut out an opossum from
a hollow in half-an-hour with one of our tomahawks, while it took a day with one of their own
stone ones.

"And so the time passed very pleasantly. We worked away. The young men and gins worked for
us. The chiefs adorned themselves with the trinkets and clothes we gave them, and fished and
hunted, and admired themselves in the river.

"Dick never trusted them; he stuck to his cattle; he warned us not to trust them, and the overseer
called him a blood-thirsty, murdering blackguard for his pains.

"One day, the whole party were at work, chopping and trimming weather-boards for the hut; the
blacks helping as usual. I was turning the grindstone for Charley Anvils, and Dick was coming
up to the dray to get some tea, but there was a brow of a hill between him and us: the muskets
were all piled in one corner. I heard a howl, and then a scream--our camp was full of armed
blacks. When I raised my head, I saw the chief, Captain Jack, we called him, with a broad ax
in his hand, and the next minute he had chopped the overseer's head clean off; in two minutes
all my mates were on the ground. Three or four came running up to us; one threw a spear at
me, which I half parried with a pannikin I was using to wet the grindstone, but it fixed deep
in my hip, and part of it I believe is there still. Charley Anvils had an ax in his hand, and
cut down the first two fellows that came up to him, but he was floored in a minute with twenty
wounds. They were so eager to kill me, that one of them, luckily, or I should not have been
alive now, cut the spear in my hip short off. Another, a young lad I had sharpened a tomahawk
for a few days before, chopped me across the head; you can see the white hair. Down I fell,
and nothing could have saved us, but the other savages had got the tarpaulin off, and were
screaming with delight, plundering the drays, which called my enemies off. Just then, Dick
came in sight. He saw what was the matter; but although there were more than a hundred black
devils, all armed, painted, bloody, and yelling, he never stopped or hesitated, but rode slap
through the camp, fired bang among them, killing two, and knocking out the brains of another.
As he passed by a top rail, where an ax was sticking, he caught it up. The men in the camp
were dead enough; the chief warriors had made the rush there, and every one was pierced with
several spears, or cut down from close behind by axes in the hands of the chiefs. We, being
further off, had been attacked by the boys only. Dick turned toward us, and shouted my name,
I could not answer, but I managed to sit up an instant; he turned toward me, leaned down, caught
me by the jacket, and dragged me on before him like a log. Just then Charley, who had crept
under the grindstone, cried, 'Oh, Dick, don't leave me!' As he said that, a lot of them came
running down, for they had seen enough to know that, unless they killed us all, their job would
not be half done. As Dick turned to face them, they gave way, and flung spears, but they could
not hurt him: they managed to get between us and poor Charley. Dick rode back a circuit, and
dropped me among some bushes on a hill, where I could see all. Four times he charged through
and through a whole mob, with an ax in one hand, and his short musket in the other. He cut
them down right and left, as if he had been mowing; he scared the wretches, although the old
women kept screeching and urging them on, as they always do. At length, by help of his stirrup
leather, he managed to get Charley up behind him. He never could have done it, but his mare
fought, and bit, and turned when he bid her, so he threw the bridle on her neck, and could
use that terrible left arm of his. Well, he came up to the hill, and lifted me on, and away
we went for three or four miles, but we knew the mare could not stand it long, so Dick got
off, and walked. When the blacks had pulled the drays' loads to pieces, they began to follow
us, but Dick never lost heart--"

"Nay, mate," interrupted Dick, "once I did; shall never forget it, when I came to put my last
bullet in, it was too big."

"Good Heavens!" I exclaimed, "what did you do?"

"Why, I put the bullet in my mouth, and kept chawing and chawing it, and threatening the black
devils all the while, until at last it was small enough, and then I rammed it down, and dropped
on my knee, and waited until they came within twenty yards, and then I picked off Captain Jack,
the biggest villain of them all."

Here Dick, being warmed, continued the story: "We could not stop; we marched all evening and
all night, and when the two poor creturs cried for water, as they did most of the night, as
often as I could I filled my boots, and gave them to drink. I led the horse, and traveled seventy
miles without halting for more than a minute or two. Toward the last they were as helpless
as worn-out sheep. I tied them on. We had the luck to fall in with a party traveling just when
the old mare was about giving in, and then we must all have died for want of water. Charley
Anvils had eighteen wounds, but, except losing two fingers, is none the worse. Poor Jemmy,
there, will never be fit for any thing but a hut-keeper; as for me, I had some scratches--nothing
to hurt; and the old mare lost an ear. I went back afterward with the police, and squared accounts
with the blacks.

"And so, you see, stranger, the old woman thinks I saved her old man's life, although I would
have done as much for any one; but I believe there are some gentlemen in Sydney think I ought
to have been hung for what I did. Any how, since that scrimmage in the bush, they always call
me 'TWO-HANDED DICK.'"

[From Household Words.]

THE USES OF SORROW.

    Oh, grieve not for the early dead,
      Whom God himself hath taken;
    But deck with flowers each holy bed--
      Nor deem thyself forsaken,
    When one by one, they fall away,
    Who were to thee as summer day.

    Weep for the babes of guilt, who sleep
      With scanty rags stretch'd o'er them,
    On the dark road, the downward steep
      Of misery; while before them
    Looms out afar the dreadful tree,
    And solemn, sad Eternity!

    Nor weep alone; but when to Heaven
      The cords of sorrow bind thee,
    Let kindest help to such be given
      As God shall teach to find thee;
    And, for the sake of those above,
    Do deeds of Wisdom, Mercy, Love.

    The child that sicken'd on thy knee,
      Thou weeping Christian mother,
    Had learn'd in this world, lispingly,
      Words suited for another.
    Oh, dost thou think, with pitying mind,
    On untaught infants left behind?

BENJAMIN WEST.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

The two principal houses at which I visited, till the arrival of our relations from the West
Indies, were Mr. West's (late President of the Royal Academy), in Newman-street, and Mr. Godfrey
Thornton's (of the distinguished city family), in Austin-Friars. How I loved the Graces in
one, and every thing in the other! Mr. West (who, as I have already mentioned, had married
one of my relations) had bought his house, I believe, not long after he came to England; and
he had added a gallery at the back of it, terminating in a couple of lofty rooms. The gallery
was a continuation of the house-passage, and, together with one of those rooms and the parlor,
formed three sides of a garden, very small but elegant, with a grass-plot in the middle, and
busts upon stands under an arcade. The gallery, as you went up it, formed an angle at a little
distance to the left, then another to the right and then took a longer stretch into the two
rooms; and it was hung with the artist's sketches all the way. In a corner between the two
angles was a study-door, with casts of Venus and Apollo, on each side of it. The two rooms
contained the largest of his pictures; and in the farther one, after stepping softly down the
gallery, as if reverencing the dumb life on the walls, you generally found the mild and quiet
artist at his work; happy, for he thought himself immortal.

I need not enter into the merits of an artist who is so well known, and has been so often criticised.
He was a man with regular, mild features; and, though of Quaker origin, had the look of what
he was, a painter to a court. And what simplicity helped him to, favor would retain. He pronounced
also some of his words, in reading, with a puritanical barbarism, such as haive for have, as
some people pronounce when they sing psalms. But this was perhaps an American custom. My mother,
who both read and spoke remarkably well, would say haive, and shaul (for shall), when she sung
her hymns. But it was not so well in reading lectures at the Academy. Mr. West would talk of
his art all day long, painting all the while. On other subjects he was not so fluent; and on
political and religious matters he tried hard to maintain the reserve common with those about
a court. He succeeded ill in both. There were always strong suspicions of his leaning to his
native side in politics; and daring Bonaparte's triumph, he could not contain his enthusiasm
for the Republican chief, going even to Paris to pay him his homage, when First Consul. The
admiration of high colors and powerful effects, natural to a painter, was too strong for him.
How he managed this matter with the higher powers in England, I can not say. Probably he was
the less heedful, inasmuch as he was not very carefully paid. I believe he did a great deal
for George the Third with little profit. Mr. West certainly kept his love for Bonaparte no
secret; and it was no wonder, for the latter expressed admiration of his pictures. The artist
thought the conqueror's smile enchanting, and that he had the handsomest leg he had ever seen.
He was present when the "Venus de Medicis" was talked of, the French having just taken possession
of her. Bonaparte, Mr. West said, turned round to those about him, and said, with his eyes
lit up, "She's coming!" as if he had been talking of a living person. I believe he retained
for the emperor the love that he had had for the First Consul, a wedded love, "for better,
for worse." However, I believe also that he retained it after the emperor's downfall; which
is not what every painter did.

PEACE

    Peace has a dwelling near a river
    Where the darkened waters quiver.
    Where the ripple we can hear
        Bursting on the pebbly shore,
    Making music soft and clear
        For evermore, for evermore.

    Peace has a dwelling near a wood
    Where the cooing pigeons brood,
    Where the sweet-voiced nightingale
        Unto the moon her song doth pour,
    And songsters swell the echoing vale
        For evermore, for evermore.

    Peace has a dwelling in the soul
    That can its hopes and fears control;
    In silent wood or city's din
        Alike it may be found to dwell;
    Its dearest home is that within
        The chastened heart's profoundest cell.

    Peace has a dwelling where no more
    The ear can hear the torrent roar,
    Or lists the rippling of the river,
        As softly it turns up its wave,
    Where never more the moon-beams quiver
        Within the silent grave.

    Peace--oh, thou white-garmented
    Maiden, with the flower-decked head,
    Come, make thy mansion in my heart!
        A tenant thou shalt freely rest,
    And thou shalt soothe each bitter smart
        That racks the chambers of my breast

                            CHARLES DRYDEN.

[From Household Words.]

ALCHEMY AND GUNPOWDER.

The day-dream of mankind has ever been the Unattainable. To sigh for what is beyond our reach
is, from infancy to age, a fixed condition of our nature. To it we owe all the improvement
that distinguishes civilized from savage life--to it we are indebted for all the great discoveries
which, at long intervals, have rewarded thought.

Though the motives which stimulated the earliest inquiries were frequently undefined, and,
if curiously examined, would be found to be sometimes questionable, it has rarely happened
that the world has not benefited by them in the end. Thus Astrology, which ascribed to the
stars an influence over the actions and destinies of man; Magic, which attempted to reverse
the laws of nature, and Alchemy, which aimed at securing unlimited powers of self-reward; all
tended to the final establishment of useful science.

Of none of the sciences whose laws are fully understood, is this description truer than of
that now called Chemistry, which once was Alchemy. That "knowledge of the substance or composition
of bodies," which the Arabic root of both words implies, establishes a fact in place of a chimera.
Experimental philosophy has made Alchemy an impossible belief, but the faith in it was natural
in an age when reason was seldom appealed to. The credulity which accepted witchcraft for a
truth, was not likely to reject the theory of the transmutation of metals, nor strain at the
dogma of perpetual youth and health; the concomitants of the Philosopher's Stone.

The Alchemists claim for their science the remotest antiquity possible, but it was not until
three or four centuries after the Christian era that the doctrine of transmutation began to
spread. It was among the Arabian physicians that it took root. Those learned men, through whom
was transmitted so much that was useful in astronomy, in mathematics, and in medicine, were
deeply tinctured with the belief in an universal elixir, whose properties gave the power of
multiplying gold, of prolonging life indefinitely, and of making youth perpetual. The discoveries
which they made of the successful application of mercury in many diseases, led them to suppose
that this agent contained within itself the germ of all curative influences, and was the basis
of all other metals. An Eastern imagination, ever prone to heighten the effects of nature,
was not slow to ascribe a preternatural force to this medicine, but not finding it in its simple
state, the practitioners of the new science had recourse to combination, in the hope, by that
means, of attaining their object. To fix mercury became their first endeavor, and this fixation
they described as "catching the flying bird of Hermes." Once embarked in the illusory experiment,
it is easy to perceive how far the Alchemists might be led; nor need it excite any wonder that
in pursuit of the ideal, they accidentally hit upon a good deal that was real. The labors,
therefore, of the Arabian physicians were not thrown away, though they entangled the feet of
science in mazes, from which escape was only effected, after the lapse of centuries of misdirected
efforts.

From the period we have last spoken of, until the commencement of the eleventh century, the
only Alchemist of note is the Arabian Geber, who, though he wrote on the perfections of metals,
of the new-found art of making gold, in a word, on the philosopher's stone, has only descended
to our times as the founder of that jargon which passes under the name of "gibberish." He was,
however, a great authority in the middle ages, and allusions to "Geber's cooks," and "Geber's
kitchen," are frequent among those who at length saw the error of their ways, after wasting
their substance in the vain search for the elixir.

A longer interval might have elapsed but for the voice of Peter the Hermit, whose fanatical
scheme for the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre was the cause of that gradual absorption, by
the nations of the West, of the learning which had so long been buried in the East. The crusaders,
or those, rather, who visited the shores of Syria under their protection--the men whose skill
in medicine and letters rendered them useful to the invading armies--acquired a knowledge of
the Arabian languages, and of the sciences cultivated by Arabian philosophers, and this knowledge
they disseminated through Europe. Some part of it, it is true, was derived from the Moors in
Spain, but it was all conveyed in a common tongue which began now to be understood. To this
era belong the names of Alfonso the Wise, King of Castile; of Isaac Beimiram, the son of Solomon
the physician; of Hali Abbas, the scholar of Abimeher Moyses, the son of Sejar; of Aben Sina,
better known as Avicenna, and sometimes called Abohali; of Averroes of Cordova, surnamed the
Commentator; of Rasis, who is also called Almanzor and Albumasar; and of John of Damascus,
whose name has been latinized into Johannes Damascenus. All these, physicians by profession,
were more or less professors of alchemy; and besides these were such as Artephius, who wrote
alchemical tracts about the year 1130, but who deserves rather to be remembered for the cool
assertion which he makes in his "Wisdom of Secrets" that, at the time he wrote he had reached
the patriarchal--or fabulous--age of one thousand and twenty-five years!

The thirteenth century came, and with it came two men who stand first, as they then stood alone,
in literary and scientific knowledge. One was a German, the other an Englishman; the first
was Albertus Magnus, the last Roger Bacon.

Of the former, many wonderful stories are told: such, for instance, as his having given a banquet
to the king of the Romans, in the gardens of his cloister at Cologne, when he converted the
intensity of winter into a season of summer, full of flowers and fruits, which disappeared
when the banquet was over; and his having constructed a marvelous automaton, called "Androïs,"
which, like the invention of his contemporary, Roger Bacon, was said to be capable of auguring
all questions, past, present, and to come.

To know more than the rest of the world in any respect, but particularly in natural philosophy,
was a certain method by which to earn the name of a necromancer in the middle ages, and there
are few whose occult fame has stood higher than that of Roger Bacon. He was afraid, therefore,
to speak plainly--indeed, it was the custom of the early philosophers to couch their knowledge
in what Bacon himself calls the "tricks of obscurity;" and in his celebrated "Epistola de Secretis,"
he adverts to the possibility of his being obliged to do the same thing, through "the greatness
of the secrets which he shall handle." With regard to the invention of his greatest secret,
we shall give the words in which he speaks of the properties of gunpowder, and afterward show
in what terms he concealed his knowledge. "Noyses," he says, "may be made in the aire like
thunders, yea, with greater horror than those that come of nature; for a little matter fitted
to the quantity of a thimble, maketh a horrible noise and wonderful lightning. And this is
done after sundry fashions, whereby any citie or armie may be destroyed." A more accurate description
of the explosion of gunpowder could scarcely be given, and it is not to be supposed that Bacon
simply confined himself to the theory of his art, when he knew so well the consequences arising
from a practical application of it. On this head there is a legend extant, which has not, to
our knowledge, been printed before, from which we may clearly see why he contented himself
with the cabalistic form in which he conveyed his knowledge of what he deemed a fatal secret.

Attached to Roger Bacon's laboratory, and a zealous assistant in the manifold occupations with
which the learned Franciscan occupied himself, was a youthful student, whose name is stated
to have been Hubert de Dreux. He was a Norman, and many of the attributes of that people were
conspicuous in his character. He was of a quick intelligence, and hasty courage, fertile in
invention, and prompt in action, eloquent of discourse, and ready of hand; all excellent qualities,
to which was superadded an insatiable curiosity. Docile to receive instruction, and apt to
profit by it, Hubert became a great favorite with the philosopher, and to him Bacon expounded
many of the secrets--or supposed secrets--of the art which he strove to, bring to perfection.
He instructed him also in the composition of certain medicines, which Bacon himself believed
might be the means of prolonging life, though not to the indefinite extent dreamed of by those
who put their whole faith in the Great Elixir.

But there never yet was an adept in any art or science who freely communicated to his pupil
the full amount of his own knowledge; something for experience to gather, or for ingenuity
to discover, is always kept in reserve, and the instructions of Roger Bacon stopped short at
one point. He was himself engaged in the prosecution of that chemical secret which he rightly
judged to be a dangerous one, and, while he experimented with the compound of sulphur, saltpetre,
and charcoal, he kept himself apart from his general laboratory, and wrought in a separate
cell, to which not even Hubert had access. To know that the friar had a mysterious occupation,
which, more than the making of gold or the universal medicine, engrossed him, was enough of
itself to rouse the young man's curiosity; but when to this was added the fact, that, from
time to time, strange and mysterious noises were heard, accompanied by bright corruscations
and a new and singular odor, penetrating through the chinks close to which his eyes were stealthily
riveted, Hubert's eagerness to know all that his master concealed had no limit. He resolved
to discover the secret, even though he should perish in the attempt; he feared that there was
good reason for the accusation of dealing in the Black Art, which, more than all others, the
monks of Bacon's own convent countenanced, but this apprehension only stimulated him the more.
For some time Hubert waited without an opportunity occurring for gratifying the secret longing
of his heart; at last it presented itself.

To afford medical assistance to the sick, was, perhaps, the most useful practice of conventual
life, and the monks had always among them practitioners of the healing art, more or less skillful.
Of this number, Roger Bacon was the most eminent, not only in the monastery to which he belonged,
but in all Oxford.

It was about the hour of noon on a gloomy day toward the end of November, in the year 1282,
while the Friar and his pupil were severally employed, the former in his secret cell, and the
latter in the general laboratory, that there arrived at the gate of the Franciscan convent
a messenger on horseback, the bearer of news from Abingdon, that Walter de Losely, the sheriff
of Berkshire, had that morning met with a serious accident by a hurt from a lance, and was
then lying dangerously wounded at the hostelry of the Checkers in Abingdon, whither he had
been hastily conveyed. The messenger added, that the leech who had been called in was most
anxious for the assistance of the skillful Friar, Roger Bacon, and urgently prayed that he
would lose no time in coming to the aid of the wounded knight.

Great excitement prevailed among the monks on the receipt of this intelligence, for Walter
de Losely was not only a man of power and influence, but moreover, a great benefactor to their
order. Friar Bacon was immediately sought and speedily made his appearance, the urgency of
the message admitting of no delay. He hastily enjoined Hubert to continue the preparation of
an amalgam which he was desirous of getting into a forward state, and taking with him his case
of instruments with the bandages and salves which he thought needful, was soon mounted on an
easy, ambling palfrey on his way toward Abingdon, the impatient messenger riding before him
to announce his approach.

When he was gone, quiet again reigned in the convent, and Hubert de Dreux resumed his occupation.
But it did not attract him long. Suddenly he raised his head from the work and his eyes were
lit up with a gleam in which joy and fear seemed equally blended. For the first time, for months,
he was quite alone. What if he could obtain access to his master's cell and penetrate the mystery
in which his labors had been so long enveloped! He cautiously stole to the door of the laboratory,
and peeped out into a long passage, at the further extremity of which a door opened into a
small court where, detached from the main edifice and screened from all observation, was a
small building which the Friar had recently caused to be constructed. He looked about him timorously,
fearing lest he might be observed; but there was no cause for apprehension, scarcely any inducement
could have prevailed with the superstitious Franciscans to turn their steps willingly in the
direction of Roger Bacon's solitary cell.

Reassured by the silence, Hubert stole noiselessly onward, and tremblingly approached the forbidden
spot. His quick eye saw at a glance that the key was not in the door, and his countenance fell.
The Friar's treasure was locked up! He might see something, however, if he could not enter
the chamber. He knelt down, therefore, at the door, and peered through the keyhole. As he pressed
against the door, in doing so, it yielded to his touch. In the haste with which Friar Bacon
had closed the entrance, the bolt had not been shot. Herbert rose hastily to his feet, and
the next moment he was in the cell, looking eagerly round upon the crucibles and alembics,
which bore witness to his master's labors. But beyond a general impression of work in hand,
there was nothing to be gleaned from this survey. An open parchment volume, in which the Friar
had recently been writing, next caught his attention. If the secret should be there in any
known language. Hubert knew something of the Hebrew, but nothing yet of Arabic. He was reassured;
the characters were familiar to him; the language Latin. He seized the volume, and read the
few lines which the Friar had just traced on the last page.

They ran thus:

"Videas tamen utrum loquar in ænigmate vel secundum veritatem." And, further (which we translate):
"He that would see these things shall have the key that openeth and no man shutteth, and when
he shall shut no man is able to open again."

"But the secret--the secret!" cried Hubert, impatiently, "let me know what 'these things' are!"

He hastily turned the leaf back and read again. The passage was that one in the "Epistola de
Secretis" which spoke of the artificial thunder and lightning, and beneath it was the full
and precise receipt for its composition. This at once explained the strange noises and the
flashes of light which he had so anxiously noticed. Surprising and gratifying as this discovery
might be, there was, Hubert thought, something beyond. Roger Bacon, he reasoned, was not one
to practice an experiment like this for mere amusement. It was, he felt certain, a new form
of invocation, more potent, doubtless, over the beings of another world, than any charm yet
recorded. Be it as it might, he would try whether, from the materials around him, it were not
in his power to produce the same result.

"Here are all the necessary ingredients," he exclaimed; "this yellowish powder is the well
known sulphur, in which I daily bathe the argent-vive; this bitter, glistening substance is
the salt of the rock, the salis petræ; and this black calcination, the third agent. But the
proportions are given, and here stands a glass cucurbit in which they should be mingled. It
is of the form my master mostly uses--round, with a small neck and a narrow mouth, to be luted
closely, without doubt. He has often told me that the sole regenerating power of the universe
is heat; yonder furnace shall supply it, and then Hubert de Dreux is his master's equal!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The short November day was drawing to a close, when, after carefully tending the wounded sheriff,
and leaving such instructions with the Abingdon leech as he judged sufficient for his patient's
well-doing, Roger Bacon again mounted his palfrey, and turned its head in the direction of
Oxford. He was unwilling to be a loiterer after dark, and his beast was equally desirous to
be once more comfortably housed, so that his homeward journey was accomplished even more rapidly
than his morning excursion; and barely an hour had elapsed when the Friar drew the rein at
the foot of the last gentle eminence, close to which lay the walls of the cloistered city.
To give the animal breathing-space, he rode quietly up the ascent, and then paused for a few
moments before he proceeded, his mind intent on subjects foreign to the speculations of all
his daily associations.

Suddenly, as he mused on his latest discovery and calculated to what principal object it might
be devoted, a stream of fiery light shot rapidly athwart the dark, drear sky, and before he
had space to think what the meteor might portend, a roar as of thunder shook the air, and simultaneous
with it, a shrill, piercing scream, mingled with the fearful sound; then burst forth a volume
of flame, and on the wind came floating a sulphurous vapor which, to him alone, revealed the
nature of the explosion he had just witnessed.

"Gracious God!" he exclaimed, while the cold sweat poured like rain-drops down his forehead,
"the fire has caught the fulminating powder! But what meant that dreadful cry? Surely nothing
of human life has suffered! The boy Hubert--but, no--he was at work at the further extremity
of the building. But this is no time for vain, conjecture--let me learn the worst at once!"

And with these words he urged his affrighted steed to its best pace, and rode rapidly into
the city.

All was consternation there: the tremendous noise had roused every inhabitant, and people were
hurrying to and fro, some hastening toward the place from whence the sound had proceeded, others
rushing wildly from it. It was but too evident that a dreadful catastrophe, worse even than
Bacon dreaded, had happened. It was with difficulty he made his way through the crowd, and
came upon the ruin which still blazed fiercely, appalling the stoutest of heart. There was
a tumult of voices, but above the outcries of the affrighted monks, and of the scared multitude,
rose the loud voice of the Friar, calling upon them to extinguish the flames. This appeal turned
all eyes toward him, and then associating him with an evil, the cause of which they were unable
to comprehend, the maledictions of the monks broke forth.

"Seize the accursed magician," they shouted; "he has made a fiery compact with the demon! Already
one victim is sacrificed--our turn will come next! See, here are the mangled limbs of his pupil,
Hubert de Dreux! The fiend has claimed his reward, and borne away his soul. Seize on the wicked
sorcerer, and take him to a dungeon!"

Roger Bacon sate stupefied by the unexpected blow; he had no power, if he had possessed the
will, to offer the slightest resistance to the fury of the enraged Franciscans, who, in the
true spirit of ignorance, had ever hated him for his acquirements. With a deep sigh for the
fate of the young man, whose imprudence he now saw had been the cause of this dreadful event,
he yielded himself up to his enemies; they tore him from his palfrey, and with many a curse,
and many a buffet, dragged him to the castle, and lodged him in one of its deepest dungeons.

The flames from the ruined cell died out of themselves; but those which the envy and dread
of Bacon's genius had kindled, were never extinguished, but with his life.

In the long years of imprisonment which followed--the doom of the stake being averted only
by powerful intercession with the Pope--Bacon had leisure to meditate on the value of all he
had done to enlarge the understanding and extend the knowledge of his species. "The prelates
and friars," he wrote in a letter which still remains, "have kept me starving in close prison,
nor will they suffer any one to come to me, fearing lest my writings should come to any other
than the Pope and themselves."

He reflected that of all living men he stood well-nigh alone in the consciousness that in the
greatest of his inventions he had produced a discovery of incalculable value, but one for which
on every account the time was not ripe.

"I will not die," he said, "without leaving to the world the evidence that the secret was known
to me whose marvelous power future ages shall acknowledge. But not yet shall it be revealed.
Generations must pass away and the minds of men become better able to endure the light of science,
before they can profit by my discovery. Let him who already possesses knowledge, guess the
truth these words convey."

And in place of the directions by which Hubert de Dreux had been guided, he altered the sentence
as follows:

    "Sed tamen salis petre,
        LURU MONE CAP UBRE
    et sulphuris."

The learned have found that these mystical words conceal the anagram of Carbonum pulvere, the
third ingredient in the composition of Gunpowder.

[From a Month at Constantinople.]

GLIMPSES OF THE EAST.

BY ALBERT SMITH.

A TURKISH BATH.--The second day I was at Constantinople I had a bath, in the proper Turkish
fashion; and this was quite as novel in its way as every thing else had been. The establishment
patronized was the head one in Stamboul; and we went from the street into a very large hall,
entirety of marble, with a gallery round the walls, in which were couches, as well as down
below. On these different visitors were reposing: some covered up and lying quite still, others
smoking narghilés, and drinking coffee. Towels and cloths were drying on lines, and in the
corner was a little shed, serving as a Câfé.

We went up-stairs and undressed, giving our watches and money to the attendant, who tied our
clothes up in a bundle. He then tucked a colored wrapper round our waists, and threw a towel
over our shoulders, after which we walked down stairs, and put on some wooden clogs at the
door of the next apartment. The first thing these did was to send me head over heels, to the
great discomfiture of my temporary costume, and equal delight of the bathers there assembled.
We remained in this room, which was of an increased temperature, idling upon other couches,
until we were pronounced ready to go into the second chamber. I contrived, with great care
and anxiety, to totter into it upon my clogs, and found another apartment of marble, very warm
indeed, and lighted from the top by a dome of glass "bull's-eyes." In the middle of this chamber
was a hot, raised octagon platform, also of marble, and in the recesses of the sides were marble
vases, and tanks, with taps for hot and cold water, and channels in the floor to carry off
the suds. Two savage, unearthly boys, their heads all shaved, with the exception of a tuft
on the top, and in their scant costume of a towel only, looking more like wild Indians than
Turks, now seized hold of me, and forcing me back upon the hot marble floor commenced a dreadful
series of tortures, such as I had only read of as pertaining to the dark ages. It was of no
use to resist. They clutched hold of the back of my neck, and I thought they were going to
strangle me; then they pulled at my arms and legs, and I thought again they were going to put
me on the rack; and lastly, when they both began to roll backward and forward on my chest,
doubling my cracking elbows underneath them, I thought, finally, that my last minute was come,
and that death by suffocation would finish me. They were fiends, and evidently delighted in
my agony; not allowing me to look to the right or left after my companions, and throwing themselves
on me again, whenever they conceived I was going to call the dragoman to my assistance. I do
not know that I ever passed such a frightful five minutes, connected with bathing, nervous
as are some of the feelings which that pastime gives rise to. It is very terrible to take the
first summer plunge into a deep, dark river and when you are at the bottom, and the water is
roaring in your ears, to think of dead bodies and crocodiles; it is almost worse to make that
frightful journey down a steep beach, in a bathing machine, with a vague incertitude as to
where you will find yourself when the doors open again: but nothing can come up to what I suffered
in my last extremity, in this Constantinople bath. Thoughts of Turkish cruelty and the sacks
of the Bosphorus; of home, and friends, and my childhood's bowers--of the sadness of being
murdered in a foreign bath--and the probability of my Giaour body being eaten by the wild dogs,
crowded rapidly on me, as these demons increased their tortures; until, collecting all my strength
for one last effort, I contrived to throw them off, one to the right and the other to the left,
some half dozen feet--and regained my legs.