As for the expenses, the dinner was two and six a head, and there was forty-five of them there,
so that came to five pounds twelve and six. Then there was the hire of the brakes, also two
and six a head, five pound twelve and six, which left a surplus of five pound fifteen to be
shared out (applause), which came to three shillings each for the thirty-seven men, and one
and fourpence for each of the boys.  (Loud and prolonged cheers.)

Crass, Slyme and Bundy now walked round the tables distributing the share-out, which was very
welcome to everybody, especially those who had spent nearly all their money during the journey
from Mugsborough, and when this ceremony was completed, Philpot moved a hearty vote of thanks
to the committee for the manner in which they had carried out their duties, which was agreed
to with acclamation.  Then they made a collection for the waiters, and the three waitresses,
which amounted to eleven shillings, for which the host returned thanks on behalf of the recipients,
who were all smiles.

Then Mr Rushton requested the landlord to serve drinks and cigars all round.  Some had cigarettes
and the teetotallers had lemonade or ginger beer.  Those who did not smoke themselves took
the cigar all the same and gave it to someone else who did.  When all were supplied there suddenly
arose loud cries of 'Order!' and it was seen that Hunter was upon his feet.

As soon as silence was obtained, Misery said that he believed that everyone there present would
agree with him, when he said that they should not let the occasion pass without drinking the
'ealth of their esteemed and respected employer, Mr Rushton.  (Hear, hear.)  Some of them had
worked for Mr Rushton on and off for many years, and as far as THEY was concerned it was not
necessary for him (Hunter) to say much in praise of Mr Rushton.  (Hear, hear.)  They knew Mr
Rushton as well as he did himself and to know him was to esteem him.  (Cheers.) As for the
new hands, although they did not know Mr Rushton as well as the old hands did, he felt sure
that they would agree that as no one could wish for a better master.  (Loud applause.)  He
had much pleasure in asking them to drink Mr Rushton's health.  Everyone rose.

'Musical honours, chaps,' shouted Crass, waving his glass and leading off the singing which
was immediately joined in with great enthusiasm by most of the men, the Semi-drunk conducting
the music with a table knife:

        For he's a jolly good fellow,
        For he's a jolly good fellow,
        For he's a jolly good fel-ell-O,
        And so say all of us,
        So 'ip, 'ip, 'ip, 'ooray!
        So 'ip, 'ip, 'ip, 'ooray!

'Now three cheers!' shouted Crass, leading off.

        Hip, hip, hip, hooray!

Everyone present drank Rushton's health, or at any rate went through the motions of doing so,
but during the roar of cheering and singing that preceded it several of the men stood with
expressions of contempt or uneasiness upon their faces, silently watching the enthusiasts or
looking at the ceiling or on the floor.

'I will say this much,' remarked the Semidrunk as they all resumed their seats--he had had
several drinks during dinner, besides those he had taken on the journey--I will say this much,
although I did have a little misunderstanding with Mr Hunter when I was workin' at the Royal
Caff, I must admit that this is the best firm that's ever worked under me.'

This statement caused a shout of laughter, which, however, died away as Mr Rushton rose to
acknowledge the toast to his health.  He said that he had now been in business for nearly sixteen
years and this was--he believed--the eleventh outing he had had the pleasure of attending.
During all that time the business had steadily progressed and had increased in volume from
year to year, and he hoped and believed that the progress made in the past would be continued
in the future.  (Hear, hear.)  Of course, he realized that the success of the business depended
very largely upon the men as well as upon himself; he did his best in trying to get work for
them, and it was necessary--if the business was to go on and prosper--that they should also
do their best to get the work done when he had secured it for them. (Hear, hear.) The masters
could not do without the men, and the men could not live without the masters.  (Hear, hear.)
It was a matter of division of labour: the men worked with their hands and the masters worked
with their brains, and one was no use without the other.  He hoped the good feeling which had
hitherto existed between himself and his workmen would always continue, and he thanked them
for the way in which they had responded to the toast of his health.

Loud cheers greeted the conclusion of this speech, and then Crass stood up and said that he
begged to propose the health of Mr 'Unter. (Hear, hear.)  He wasn't going to make a long speech
as he wasn't much of a speaker.  (Cries of 'You're all right,' 'Go on,' etc.)  But he felt
sure as they would all hagree with him when he said that--next to Mr Rushton--there wasn't
no one the men had more respect and liking for than Mr 'Unter.  (Cheers.)  A few weeks ago
when Mr 'Unter was laid up, many of them began to be afraid as they was going to lose 'im.
He was sure that all the 'ands was glad to 'ave this hoppertunity of congratulating him on
his recovery (Hear, hear) and of wishing him the best of 'ealth in the future and hoping as
he would be spared to come to a good many more Beanos.

When they had done cheering, Nimrod rose.  His voice trembled a little as he thanked them for
their kindness, and said that he hoped he deserved their goodwill.  He could only say that
as he was sure as he always tried to be fair and considerate to everyone.  (Cheers.)  He would
now request the landlord to replenish their glasses.  (Hear, hear.)

As soon as the drinks were served, Nimrod again rose and said he wished to propose the healths
of their visitors who had so kindly contributed to their expenses--Mr Lettum, Mr Didlum, Mr
Toonarf and Mr Grinder. (Cheers.)  They were very pleased and proud to see them there (Hear,
hear), and he was sure the men would agree with him when he said that Messrs Lettum, Didlum,
Toonarf and Grinder were jolly good fellows.

