"And yet," said Falk eagerly, "you were urging, just now, a doctrine of what, if you'll forgive
my saying so, was nothing but selfishness. How do you reconcile that with immortality?"

Ronder laughed. "There have only been four doctrines in the history of the world," he answered,
"and they are all Pursuits. One is the pursuit of Unselfishness. 'Little children, love one
another. He that seeks to save his soul shall lose it.' The second is the opposite of the first--
Individualism. 'I am I. That is all I know, and I will seek out my own good always because
that at least I can understand.' The third is the pursuit of God and Mysticism. 'Neither I
matter nor my neighbour. I give up the world and every one and everything in it to find God.'
And the fourth is the pursuit of Beauty. 'Beauty is Truth and Truth Beauty. That is all we
need to know.' Every man and woman alive or dead has chosen one of those four or a mixture
of them. I would say that there is something in all of them, Charity, Individualism, Worship,
Beauty. But finally, when all is said and done, we remain ourselves. It is our own life that
we must lead, our own goal for which we are searching. At the end of everything we remain alone,
of ourselves, by ourselves, for ourselves. Life is, finally, a lonely journey to a lonely bourne,
let us cheat ourselves as we may."

Ronder sat back in his chair, his eyes half closed. There was nothing that he enjoyed more
than delivering his opinions about life to a fit audience --and by fit he meant intelligent
and responsive. He liked to be truthful without taking risks, and he was always the audience
rather than the speaker in company that might be dangerous. He almost loved Falk as he looked
across at him and saw the effect that his words had made upon him. There was, Heaven knew,
nothing very original in what he had said, but it had been apparently what the boy had wanted
to hear.

He jumped up from his chair: "You're right," he said. "We've got to lead our own lives. I've
known it all along. When I've shown them what I can do, then I'll come back to them. I love
my father, you know, sir; I suppose some people here think him tiresome and self-opinionated,
but he's like a boy, you always know where you are with him. He's no idea what deceit means.
He looks on this Cathedral as his own idea, as though he'd built it almost, and of course that's
dangerous. He'll have a shock one of these days and see that he's gone too far, just as the
Black Bishop did. But he's a fine man; I don't believe any one knows how proud I am of him.
And it's much better I should go my own way and earn my own living than hang around him, doing
nothing--isn't it?"

At that direct appeal, at the eager gaze that Falk fixed upon him, something deep within Ronder
stirred.

Should he not even now advise the boy to stay? One word just then might effect much. Falk trusted
him. He was the only human being in Polchester to whom the boy perhaps had come. Years afterwards
he was to look back to that moment, see it crystallised in memory, see the books, piled row
upon row, gleam down upon him, see the blue curtain and hear the crackling fire...a crisis
perhaps to himself as well as to Falk.

He went across to the boy and put his hands on his shoulders.

"Yes," he said, "I think it's better for you to go."

"And about God and Beauty?" Falk said, staring for a moment into Ronder's eyes, smiling shyly,
and then turning away. "It's a long search, isn't it? But as long as there's something there,
beyond life, and I know there is, the search is worth it."

He looked rather wistfully at Ronder as though he expected him to confirm him again. But Ronder
said nothing.

Falk went to the door: "Well, I must go. I'll show them that I was right to go my own way.
I want father to be proud of me. This will shock him for a moment, but soon he'll see. I think
you'll like to know, sir," he said, suddenly turning and holding out his hand, "that this little
talk has meant a lot to me. It's just helped me to make up my mind."

When he had gone Ronder sat in his chair, motionless, for a while; he jumped up, went to the
shelves, and found a book. Before he sat down again he said aloud, as though he were answering
some accuser, "Well, I told him nothing, anyway."

Falk had, from the moment he left Ronder's door, his mind made up, and now that it was made
up he wished to act as speedily as possible. And instantly there followed an appeal of the
Town, so urgent and so poignant that he was taken by surprise. He had lived there most of his
days and never seen it until now, but every step that he took soon haunted him. He made his
plans decisively, irrevocably, but he found himself lingering at doors and at windows, peering
over walls, hanging over the Pol bridge, waiting suddenly as though he expected some message
was about to be given to him.

The town was humming with life those days. The May weather was lovely, softly blue with cool
airs and little white clouds like swollen pin- cushions drifting lazily from point to point.
The gardens were dazzling with their flowers, the Cathedral Green shone like glass, and every
door- knob and brass knocker in the Precincts glittered under the sun.

The town was humming with the approaching Jubilee. It seemed itself to take an active part
in the preparations, the old houses smiling to one another at the plans that they overheard,
and the birds, of whom there were a vast number, flying from wall to wall, from garden to garden,
from chimney to chimney, with the exciting news that they had gathered.

Every shop in the High Street seemed to whisper to Falk as he passed: "Surely you are not going
to leave us. We can offer you such charming things. We've never been so gay in our lives before
as we are going to be now."

Even the human beings in the place seemed to be nicer to him than they had ever been before.
They had never, perhaps, been very nice to him, regarding him with a quite definite disapproval
even when he was a little boy, because he would go his own way and showed them that he didn't
care what they thought of him.

Now, suddenly, they were making up to him. Mrs. Combermere, surrounded with dogs, stopped him
in the High Street and, in a deep bass voice, asked him why it was so long since he had been
to see her, and then slapped him on the shoulder with her heavy gloved hand. That silly woman,
Julia Preston, met him in Bennett's book shop and asked him to help her to choose a book of
poems for a friend.

"Something that shall be both True and Beautiful, Mr. Brandon," she said. "There's so little
real Beauty in our lives, don't you think?" Little Betty Callender caught him up in Orange
Street and chattered to him about her painting, and that pompous Bentinck-Major insisted on
his going into the Conservative Club with him, where he met old McKenzie and older Forrester,
and had to listen to their golfing achievements.

It may have been simply that every one in the town was beside and above himself over the Jubilee
excitements--but it made it very hard for Falk. Nothing to the hardness of everything at home.
Here at the last moment, when it was too late to change or alter anything, every room, every
old piece of furniture seemed to appeal to him with some especial claim. For ten years he had
had the same bedroom, an old low-ceilinged room with queer bulges in the wall, a crooked fireplace
and a slanting floor. For years now he had had a wall-paper with an ever-recurrent scene of
a church tower, a snowy hill, and a large crimson robin. The robins were faded, and the snowy
hill a dingy yellow. There were School groups and Oxford groups on the walls, and the book-case
near the door had his old school prizes and Henty and a set of the Waverley Novels with dark
red covers and paper labels.

Hardest of all to leave was the view from the window overlooking the Cathedral Green and the
Cathedral. That window had been connected with every incident of his childhood. He had leant
out of it when he had felt sick from eating too much, he had gone to it when his eyes were
brimming with hot rebellious tears after some scene with his father, he had known ecstatic
joys gazing from it on the first day of his return from school, he had thrown things out of
it on the heads of unsuspecting strangers, he had gone to it in strange moods of poetry and
romance, and watched the moon like a plate of dull and beaten gold sail above the Cathedral
towers, he had sat behind it listening to the organ like a muffled giant whispering to be liberated
from grey, confining walls, he had looked out of it on a still golden evening when the stars
were silver buttons in the sky after a meeting with Annie; he went to it and gazed, heart-sick,
across the Green now when he was about to bid fare-well to it for ever.

Heart-sick but resolved, it seemed strange to him that after months of irresolution his mind
should now be so firmly composed. He seemed even, prophetically, to foretell the future. What
had reassured him he did not know, but for himself he knew that he was taking the right step.
For himself and for Annie--outside that, it was as though a dark cloud was coming up enveloping
all that he was leaving behind. He could not tell how he knew, but he felt as though he were
fleeing from the city of Polchester, and were being driven forward on his flight by powers
far stronger than he could control.

He fancied, as he looked out of his window, that the Cathedral also was aware and, aloof, immortal,
waited the inevitable hour.

Coming straight upon his final arrangements with Annie, his reconciliation with his father
was ironic. So deeply here were his real affections stirred that he could not consider deliberately
his approaching treachery; nevertheless he did not for a moment contemplate withdrawal from
it. It was as though two personalities were now in active movement within him, the one old,
belonging to the town, to his father, to his own youth, the other new, belonging to Annie,
to the future, to ambition, to the challenge of life itself. With every hour the first was
moving away from him, reluctantly, stirring the other self by his withdrawal but inevitably
moving, never, never to return.

He came, late in the afternoon, into the study and found his father, balanced on the top of
a small ladder, putting straight "Christ's Entry into Jerusalem," a rather faded copy of Benjamin
Haydon's picture that had irritated Falk since his earliest youth by a kind of false theatricality
that inhabited it.

Falk paused at the door, caught up by a sudden admiration of his father. He had his coat off,
and as he bent forward to adjust the cord the vigour and symmetry of his body was magnificently
emphasized. The thick strong legs pressed against the black cloth of his trousers, the fine
rounded thighs, the broad back almost bursting the shiny stuff of the waistcoat, the fine neck
and the round curly head, these denied age and decay. He was growing perhaps a little stout,
the neck was a little too thick for the collar, but the balance and energy and strength of
the figure belonged to a man as young as Falk himself....

At the sound of the door closing he turned, and at once the lined forehead, the mouth a little
slack, gave the man his age, but Falk was to remember that first picture for the rest of his
life with a strange poignancy and deeply affectionate pathos.

They had not met alone since their quarrel; their British horror of any scene forbade the slightest
allusion to it. Brandon climbed down from his ladder and came, smiling, across to his son.

At his happy times, when he was at ease with himself and the world, he had the confident gaiety
of a child; he was at ease now. He put his hand through Falk's arm and drew him across to the
table by the window.

"I've had a headache," he said, rather as a child might complain to his elder, "for two days,
and now it's suddenly gone. I never used to have headaches. But I've been irritated lately
by some of the tomfoolery that's been going on. Don't tell your mother; I haven't said a word
to her; but what do you take when you have a headache?"

"I don't think I ever have them," said Falk.

"I'm not going to stuff myself up with all their medicines and things. I've never taken medicine
in my life if I was strong enough to prevent them giving it to me, and I'm not going to start
it now."

"Father," Falk said very earnestly, "don't let yourself get so easily irritated. You usedn't
to be. Everybody finds things go badly sometimes. It's bad for you to allow yourself to be
worried. Everything's all right and going to be all right." (The hypocrite that he felt himself
as he said this!)

"You know that every one thinks the world of you here. Don't take things too seriously."

Brandon nodded his head.

"You're quite right, Falk. It's very sensible of you to mention it, my boy. I usedn't to lose
my temper as I do. I must keep control of myself better. But when a lot of chattering idiots
start gabbling about things that they understand as much about as----"

"Yes, I know," said Falk, putting his hand upon his father's arm. "But let them talk. They'll
soon find their level."

"Yes, and then there's your mother," went on Brandon. "I'm bothered about her. Have you noticed
anything odd about her this last week or two?"

That his father should begin to worry about his mother was certainly astonishing enough! Certainly
the first time in all these years that Brandon had spoken of her.

"Mother? No; in what way?"

"She's not herself. She's not happy. She's worrying about something."

"You're worrying, father," Falk said, "that's what's the matter. She's just the same. You've
been allowing yourself to worry about everything. Mother's all right." And didn't he know,
in his own secret heart, that she wasn't?

Brandon shook his head. "You may he right. All the same----"

Falk said slowly: "Father, what would you say if I went up to London?" This was a close approach
to the subject of their quarrel of the other evening.

"When? What for?"

"Oh, at once--to get something to do."

"No, not now. After the summer we might talk of it."

He spoke with utter decision, as he had always done to Falk, as though he were five years old
and could naturally know nothing about life.

"But, father--don't you think it's bad for me, hanging round here doing nothing?"

Brandon got up, went across to the little ladder, hesitated a moment, then climbed up.

"I've had this picture twenty years," he said, "and it's never hung straight yet."

"No, but, father," said Falk, coming across to him, "I'm a man now, not a boy. I can't hang
about any longer--I can't really."

"We'll talk about it in the autumn," said Brandon, humming "Onward, Christian Soldiers," as
he always did, a little out of tune.

"I've got to earn my own living, haven't I?" said Falk.

"There!" said Brandon, stepping back a little, so that he nearly overbalanced. "That's better.
But it won't stay like that for five minutes. It never does."

He climbed down again, his face rosy with his exertions. "You leave it to me, Falk," he said,
nodding his head. "I've got plans for you."

A sudden sense of the contrast between Ronder and his father smote Falk. His father! What an
infant! How helpless against that other! Moved by the strangest mixture of tenderness, regret,
pity, he did what he had never in all his life before dreamed of doing, what he would have
died of shame for doing, had any one else been there--put his hands on his father's shoulders
and kissed him lightly on his cheek.

He laughed as he did so, to carry off his embarrassment.

"I don't hold myself bound, you know, father," he said. "I shall go off just when I want to."

But Brandon was too deeply confused by his son's action to hear the words. He felt a strange,
most idiotic impulse to hug his son; to place himself well out of danger, he moved back to
the window, humming "Onward, Christian Soldiers."

He looked out upon the Green. "There are two of those choir-boys on the grass again," he said.
"If Ryle doesn't keep them in better order, I'll let him know what I think of him. He's always
promising and never does anything."

The last talk of their lives alone together was ended.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had made all his plans. He had decided that on the day of escape he would walk over to Salis
Coombe station, a matter of some two miles; there he would be joined by Annie, whose aunt lived
near there, and to whom she could go on a visit the evening before. They would catch the slow
four o'clock train to Drymouth and then meet the express that reached London at midnight. He
would go to an Oxford friend who lived in St. John's Wood, and he and Annie would be married
as soon as possible. Beyond everything else he wanted this marriage to take place quickly;
once that was done he was Annie's protector, so long as she should need him. She should be
free as she pleased, but she would have some one to whom she might go, some one who could legally
provide for her and would see that she came to no harm.

The thing that he feared most was lest any ill should come to her through the fact of his caring
for her; he felt that he could let her go for ever the very day after his marriage, so that
he knew that she would never come to harm. A certain defiant courage in her, mingled with her
ignorance and simplicity, made his protection of her the first thing in his life. As to living,
his Oxford friend was concerned with various literary projects, having a little money of his
own, and much self-confidence and ambition.

He and Falk had already, at Oxford, edited a little paper together, and Falk had been promised
some reader's work in connection with one of the younger publishing houses. In after years
he looked back in amazement that he should have ventured on the great London attack with so
slender a supply of ammunition--but now, looking forward in Polchester, that question of future
livelihood seemed the very smallest of his problems.

Perhaps, deepest of all, something fiercely democratic in him longed for the moment when he
might make his public proclamation of his defiance of class.

He meant to set off, simply as he was; they could send his things after him. If he indulged
in any pictures of the future, he did, perhaps, see himself returning to Polchester in a year's
time or so, as the editor of the most remarkable of London's new periodicals, received by his
father with enthusiasm, and even Annie admitted into the family with approval. Of course, they
could not return here to live...it would be only a visit.... At that sudden vision of Annie
and his father face to face, that vision faded; no, this was the end of the old life. He must
face that, set his shoulders square to it, steel his heart to it....

That last luncheon was the strangest meal that he had ever known. So strange because it was
so usual--so ordinary! Roast chicken and apple tart; his mother sitting at the end of the table,
watching, as she had watched through so many years, that everything went right, her little,
tight, expressionless face, the mouth set to give the right answers to the right questions,
her eyes veiled.... His mind flew back to that strange talk in the dark room across the candle-lit
table. She had been hysterical that night, over-tired, had not known what she was saying. Well,
she could never leave his father now, now when he was gone. His flight settled that.

"What are you doing this afternoon, Falk?"

"Why, mother?"

"I only wondered. I have to go to the Deanery about this Jubilee committee. I thought you might
walk up there with me. About four."

"I don't think I'll be back in time, mother; I'm going out Salis Coombe way to see a fellow."

He saw Joan, looking so pretty, sitting opposite to him. How she had grown lately! Putting
her hair up made her seem almost a woman. But what a child in the grown-up dress with the high
puffed sleeves, her baby-face laughing at him over the high stiff collar; a pretty dress, though,
that dark blue stuff with the white stripes.... Why had he never considered Joan? She had never
meant anything to him at all. Now, when he was going, it seemed to him suddenly that he might
have made a friend of her during all these years. She was a good girl, kind, good-natured, jolly.

She, too, was talking about the Jubilee--about some committee that she was on and some flags
that they were making. How exciting to them all the Jubilee was, and how unimportant to him!

Some book she was talking about. "...the new woman at the Library is so nice. She let me have
it at once. It's The Massarenes, mother, darling, by Ouida. The girls say it's lovely."

"I've heard of it, dear. Mrs. Sampson was talking about it. She says it's not a nice book at
all. I don't think father would like you to read it."

"Oh, you don't mind, father, do you?"

"What's that?"

The Archdeacon was in a good humour. He loved apple tart.

"The Massarenes, by Ouida."

"Trashy novels. Why don't you girls ever read anything but novels?" and so on.

The little china clock with the blue mandarin on the mantelpiece struck half past two. He must
be going. He threw a last look round the room as though he were desperately committing everything
to memory--the shabby, comfortable chairs, the Landseer "Dignity and Impudence," the warm,
blue carpet, the round silver biscuit-tin on the sideboard.

"Well, I must be getting along."

"You'll be back to dinner, Falk dear, won't you? It's early to-night. Quarter past seven. Father
has a meeting."

He looked at them all. His father was sitting back in his chair, a satisfied man.

"Yes, I'll be back," he said, and went out.

It seemed to him incredible that departure should be so simple. When you are taking the most
momentous step of your life, surely there should be dragons in the way! Here were no dragons.
As he went down the High Street people smiled at him and waved hands. The town sparkled under
the afternoon sun. It was market-day, and the old fruit-woman under the green umbrella, the
toy-man with the clockwork monkeys, the flower-stalls and the vegetable-sellers, all these
were here; in the centre of the square, sheep and pigs were penned. Dogs were barking, stout
farmers in corduroy breeches walked about arguing and expectorating, and suddenly, above all
the clamour and bustle, the Cathedral chimes struck the hour.

