    "I have been informed that a lady of high rank, finding her end
    approaching, and feeling very uneasy apprehensions of this sort, came
    at length to a resolution of sending for a clergyman, of whom she had
    heard a very good character, in order to be satisfied as to some
    doubts. The first question she asked was whether in heaven (for she
    made no doubt of going thither) some respect would not be had to a
    woman of such birth and breeding? The good man, for such he really was,
    endeavoured to show her the weakness of this notion, and to convince
    her that there was, where she was going, no acceptance of persons, and
    much more to the same purpose. This the poor lady heard with much
    attention, and then said with a sigh, 'Well, if it be so, this heaven
    must be, after all, a strange sort of a place!'"

P. C. S. S. is unwilling to believe this painful story--the more so, as it must be recollected
that the author of the paper was an inveterate Whig, and the Duchess (jure paterno) as inveterate
a Jacobite.

P. C. S. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAN GRAIL.

Sir Walter Scott, in his Marmion (Introduction to Canto First), writes of Sir Lancelot of the
Lake, that--

 "A sinful man and unconfessed,
  He took the Sangreal's holy quest,
  And slumbering saw the vision high
  He might not view with waking eye."

In his note on this passage, he refers to the romance of the Morte Arthur, and says:

    "One day when Arthur was holding a high feast with his Knights of the
    Round Table, the Sangreal, a vessel out of which the last Passover was
    eaten (a precious relic, which had long remained concealed from human
    eyes, because of the sins of the land), suddenly appeared to him and
    all his chivalry. The consequence of this vision was that all the
    knights took on them a solemn vow to seek the Sangreal."

The orthography of the word in the romance itself is Sancgreall, which affords us a clue to
what I believe to be its true etymology, Sang réel (Sanguis realis), a name it derived from
the tradition of its having been employed, not only to hold the paschal lamb at the Last Supper,
but also by Joseph of Arimathea to catch the blood and water which flowed from the wounds of
our Blessed Lord.

Archdeacon Nares, in his Glossary, pp. 209. 445., enters largely into the legendary history
of the Sangreal, as well as the question of its orthography. He takes some pains to refute
the etymology given above, and quotes Roquefort (Dict. de la Langue Romane) to prove that graal
or greal signifies a broad open dish. Will any one who has the means of consulting Roquefort
inform us, whether he brings forward any instance of the existence of such a word in this sense?
or, if so employed, whether such use may not have arisen from the ordinary erroneous orthography?
It is a question well worth investigation, which I hope may call some abler pens than mine
into exercise.

This holy relic, the object of so much fruitless search to Arthur and his knights, is now safely
deposited in the cathedral of Genoa, where all, holy or unholy, may behold it, on making the
accustomed offering to its sanctity. Of old, it concealed itself from the eyes of all but those
free from mortal sin; but now, the ability to pay five francs puts one in possession of every
Christian virtue, and the Sacro Catino (as it is called) is exhibited on the payment of that
sum. In addition to the authorities quoted by Nares, I would refer to Sir F. Palgrave, in Murray's
Handbook to Northern Italy, 1st edition, p. 105.

SA. CA.

{282}

