Now it was Samuel's duty to shut the wooden doors of the tabernacle at night, and sleep close
to the great purple curtain and watch--a very trying thing for one so young in such a large,
silent place.  One night as he lay there asleep on his mat before the purple curtain, with
the great lamp burning low and red, and shadows flickering about the silent place, he was suddenly
roused by what sounded like Eli's voice calling him.  At once he answered, "Here am I," and
ran to the side of the aged priest.  But the old man told the wondering boy that he had not
called him, and with gentle words bade him lie down again, calling him his son.

Samuel went back to his mat, but after a while he heard the voice once more; and again he thought
it was Eli, and ran to his bedside, saying that he did call him.  Eli now saw that God was
calling the boy, and told him to go and lie down, and if he heard the voice again, to answer,
"Speak, Lord; for Thy servant heareth."  Then the boy Samuel, in wonder and fear, returned
to his sleeping-mat before the great purple curtain, and lay down with the light shining upon
him.  Once more he heard the voice calling,--

"Samuel, Samuel."

"Speak, Lord; for Thy servant heareth," he replied in a trembling voice.  Then Samuel heard
a voice, which told him that God meant to punish Eli for not checking his sons, who were very
wicked men, and had done many things which were wrong in His sight; also that He had chosen
him to be the leader and judge of the people of Israel after Eli.

The boy slept again, the temple lamp burned low before the great curtain, and the place was
silent until the gray light of morning stole in.  Then Samuel rose, and as he unbarred the
wooden doors of the tabernacle and opened them wide, the dawn was breaking over the hills in
clouds of crimson and gold, filling the holy place with the light of a new day.

The breath of morning was in his face as he looked out to the east and the rising sun; and
he felt a changed boy, for he had received a message from God Himself--a call to lead the people
of Israel; yet he feared to tell Eli of his vision, so great and so terrible.  But after a
while the old priest awoke, and calling him to his bedside put questions to him; and when he
heard that he had had a vision, he bade the boy tell him all, both good and bad, and Samuel did so.

The story grieved the old man, but even yet he did not check his sons, who were now too strong
for him; and for some years more they went on in their wicked ways, and he still remained the
chief priest.  But as he grew older and weaker Samuel grew stronger; and when he became a man,
he became known through all the land for his wisdom, and the people said that Samuel was a
friend of God, who had guidance from the Most High for His people.  So he continued to live
at Shiloh as Eli's chief helper until the old man passed away; and so the little boy of the
tabernacle became in due time the chief prophet, the ruler, and the judge of Israel.

DAVID THE SHEPHERD YOUTH.

I.

Now it happened in the days of Samuel that the tribes of Israel made up their mind to choose
a king to rule over them.  Their choice fell upon a leader whose name was Saul, and who was
made the first king of Israel.

King Saul was a brave man and a wise leader, who made the name of the Israelites feared by
all their enemies round about.  But after a time he acted in a way displeasing to God, and
was reproved by Samuel in His name.  Saul, however, went on in his sinful ways, and this filled
the heart of the prophet Samuel, who was now an old man, with sore trouble and distress.

Samuel lived, among his young men on the little hill of Ramah, mourning because of King Saul's
sinful ways.  But there came a time when God told him--perhaps in a vision--to mourn no longer.
He was to fill a small horn with oil and go to the village of Bethlehem, and there anoint one
of the sons of Jesse the shepherd to be the next king; but at first the old man was afraid
to go, lest King Saul should hear of it and kill him.

Then one day he left Ramah early in the morning, riding on an ass, with a young man behind
him driving a cow; for he gave out that he was going to offer a sacrifice to God.  Their path
lay to the southwards, and on by the camel road into the Hebron hills.  It was a long ride,
in hot autumn weather, along these stony paths glistening in the Eastern sun.

The watchers on the walls of Bethlehem saw Samuel, while he was yet a long way off, riding
slowly up the rough path, with his servant driving a cow before him; and they were alarmed,
for the old prophet was the chief judge in the land.  Then the leading men of the place hastened
out through the gate in the wall to meet him, and ask if he came to them in peace.

He answered that he had come to offer a sacrifice, and bade them wash themselves in the stream,
and put on clean clothing, that they might join him in it.  Riding through the low arch in
the walls, he asked for Jesse, a wealthy shepherd of the place, who had hundreds of flocks
and herds; and when he found him, he ordered him and his sons to wash and dress and come to
the feast also.  Jesse thought he was highly honoured, for he had eight sons, and he was pleased
that they should show themselves before the great prophet and judge of Israel.

A fire of sticks was kindled upon the flat rock outside the village walls, on which the sacrifices
were always made; and the prophet killed the cow he had brought, and cut it in pieces for burning.
Part of the flesh was then placed upon the wood, and as the old man raised his hands to heaven
the flames leapt up and burned the flesh; and all the time the men of the village stood round
him in their rough cloaks and striped kerchiefs, looking on in silence at this solemn act of
worship.

Women in their tunics of coarse blue and red, with strings of coins in their dark hair, stood
apart at a distance, for they were not allowed to share in the worship of the men.  The feast
was to come next, at which the women would be allowed to serve the men; but before Samuel would
permit it to begin, there was something else, that must be done.

Calling Jesse to him, he said that he wished to see his sons.  Jesse knew at once that something
important was about to happen; but the people did not know, and wondered why the feast was
delayed, and what it all meant when Jesse called his sons forward by their names, and bade
them walk slowly, one at a time, past the aged prophet.  First came the eldest, in striped
cloak and gray tunic, carrying his thick war-spear in his hand; and when Samuel marked his
height and his fine face, he said,--

"Here, surely, is the chosen king."

But the voice of God within him seemed to whisper, "Nay, I have rejected him.

Then Samuel told Jesse that his eldest son was not chosen, and he passed on.  Jesse next called
up his second son, who walked slowly past the prophet, with sweeping cloak and club in hand,
armed for the fight.

"Neither hath God chosen this," Samuel said to the father; and the second son passed on.  Jesse
then called forward the third, who also walked past the old prophet with head erect, and spear
in hand, hoping that he would be chosen.

"Neither hath God chosen this," was all that the grim old man said of him.

The people sat in the sunshine, on the slope of the hill outside the village walls, shading
their eyes and looking on in silence, until seven of the sons of Jesse, dressed and armed like
chiefs, had gone slowly past the old man with the keen black eyes; but Samuel made no movement,
and Jesse was deeply grieved.

"God hath not chosen these.  Are all thy children here?" Samuel asked, turning sharply to the
shepherd, who trembled as he replied,--

