The lieutenant continued looking at him with the most perfect indifference. He whistled a tune,
took the only two turns in the cell which its extent permitted, and then, as if a sudden recollection
had struck him, put two letters into Dumiger's hands.

"Come, you are not very ill treated, young man, when you are allowed to read."

Dumiger felt a glow of delight thrill through his frame. Everything is by comparison, and after
the pain be had endured, the sight of two letters, the one in the handwriting of Marguerite,
the other of Carl, made his heart leap with joy. They seemed to him to be the guarantees of
immediate safety.

The lieutenant still remained near him. Dumiger would not open the letters in his presence.
At last the officer, after some minutes' delay, and having sung sundry snatches of martial
airs, gave Dumiger a contemptuous, indignant glance, and stalked out of the cell, taking care
to rattle the bolts and bars as a punishment to Dumiger for not gratifying his curiosity. Poor
devil, it was his only amusement to pry into the prisoners' secrets.

"How is the lad?" asked the second in command when his commander appeared.

"Better than he will be when he knows the charges for which he is shut up. At present he is
under the impression it is only for debt; but when he learns it is for treason, he will whimper
and whine even more than he has been doing."

"What, so young and a traitor!" exclaimed the subaltern, who was evidently the kinder spirit
of the two. "It is almost incredible."

"It may be," continued the lieutenant. "I have directions from the Grand Master and Council
to keep a strict watch over him. They say that he is a most dangerous character. But I never
trouble myself much about these kind of fellows. I do my duty quietly. Meanwhile, I have given
him letters which won't add to his happiness much when he reads them, if I am to believe what
the inspector told me, who of course read them and sealed them again."

The moment the lieutenant had left the cell, Dumiger eagerly tore open Marguerite's letter,
without remarking that it had been opened ere it reached him. He read it through with that
rapidity of glance and mental discernment which fear and love combined can alone give. It was
with a groan of horror that he allowed the letter to drop from his hands, for the full extent
of the difficulties of his situation now broke upon him. She told him that the same evening,
the moment his arrest was known in the neighborhood, bills had poured in from all quarters;
that she had seen his friends Carl and Krantz, who called early on that morning, and who found
it impossible to obtain one-tenth of the sum now required for his release. All they could do,
therefore, was to take charge of the wonderful model, and carry it to the Court-house, where
it would have to remain until the decision of the Council should be proclaimed. The second
letter, which was from Carl, was still more appalling, for he told Dumiger how essential it
was for him to make any sacrifice in order to put the whole machinery in order, so that his
work might appear to the judges in the most favorable point of view. He undertook, however,
to engage the best mechanist in Dantzic, in the event of Dumiger not being able to obtain his
release before the appointed day.

What was to be done? Dumiger felt himself driven almost to frenzy. He thought of Marguerite,
of his clock, of his friends; he then began to think that be had acted very foolishly in refusing
the offer of the Grand Master, who, he felt assured, although the lieutenant would not admit
it to him, was the cause of all his misery. The more he reflected on the past, the more desperate
he became; he rolled on the ground in agony; the whole day passed in efforts to reach the window,
whence at least he might perceive the situation of his house, or to shake the bars of the strongly-ironed
door. Toward evening a soldier brought him some refreshment, but preserved an obstinate silence.
Dumiger allowed the refreshment to remain untasted on the ground; he could not touch it. The
evening grew on apace, the merry chimes from the Dom of the city came across the water; it
struck him that they had never chimed so musically before, or with so much meaning. Another
long, long night of agony was to be passed, and where and how was suspense to end?

Time swept on, but this night they brought him no lamp, so that he had no means of measuring
its progress; he could only judge how heavily the hours rolled by the tramp of the guards as
they marched over the drawbridge to the several reliefs. At ten o'clock he heard the bugles
sounding the retreat, and then when he pictured to himself his gentle young bride, so sweet,
so lovely--when he remembered how greatly he had neglected her for his ambition--he loathed
himself for what he used to consider laudable, but now felt to have been mere selfishness.

It was still very early, for the gray cold streaks of morning had not pierced the prison-bars,
when Dumiger was roused from his uneasy slumber by the rattling of the lock of his door. He
looked up and saw with surprise a man who was not dressed in uniform.

"Who are you? What do you want?" exclaimed Dumiger, "for there is such a thing as intrusion
even in a prison."

The man whom he addressed only replied by taking possession of the single chair which stood
by the bedside; he then very quietly and coolly took a tinder-box from his pocket, struck a
light in the most deliberate manner, and lit the small lamp which had remained unreplenished
from the preceding evening. Dumiger had then an opportunity of examining his visitor.

He was a little, jesuitical, sly, crafty, leering person, with a quick, intelligent, practical
eye--a man who was evidently conversant with the world; and to judge from the sensual expression
of his mouth and the protuberance at the nape of the neck, whose world was of the worst description--a
phrenologist or physiognomist would have hung him at once. It is fortunate for some men that
these sciences are not more extensively understood, or a great many persons would suffer for
their natural and cerebral conformation.

"You will soon be free, my son."

"Free! thank God!" exclaimed Dumiger, throwing himself back on his pillow and clasping his
hands in gratitude.

"You are too quick, young man," continued the stranger. "I said you would soon be free, if--you
see there is an if. It is for you to remove it."

"If--if what? I will do anything you tell me," almost shrieked Dumiger, so terrified was he
at the possibility of his hopes deserting him.

"Well," continued the little man, putting on his spectacles and examining the roll of his papers,
"I will commence by telling you that I am a native of Hamburgh and like yourself, a great mechanist.
I was sent for by the Council last evening, to examine all the models which have been received.
I do not hesitate to say to you that yours is by far the best."

"God be praised, Marguerite, Marguerite!" ejaculated Dumiger.

"Yes," quickly remarked the mysterious visitor, "yours is by far superior to all the rest,
but it will not win the prize."

"Not win the prize!" said Dumiger; for now all his ambition had returned to him.

"Certainly not," was the reply; "you know as well as I do that the machinery requires some
directing power. No one knows how to apply it: no one knows the secret."

"Yes, there is a secret," said the youth, his face brightening even through the cold, clammy
prison atmosphere.

"And you cannot get out to tell it, or to arrange your own work, for here I have a schedule
of the judgments for debt which have been lodged against you;" and he held out a list some
twelve inches in length.

Dumiger groaned. "And are there no means of paying this?"

"You can answer that question as well as myself," replied the man. "I will tell you that there
are none for the present; but there is one way in which the clock may still be the admiration
of Dantzic, and yourself free with a great independence in three days."

"What way? what way? tell me quickly!" cried Dumiger, gasping with anxiety.

"Be still, young man, be still; we have plenty of time: let's proceed quietly," said the stranger.

"Well, well, but be quick," continued Dumiger, in anything but a quiet tone of voice.

"I have told you," said the man, quietly readjusting his spectacles, which Dumiger had slightly
disturbed by the violence with which he seized his arm, "I have told you that I am a native
of Hambro', a mechanician; that I have seen your clock, admired it, and taken the trouble to
obtain a list of your liabilities,--here it is again."

Dumiger gave another groan.

"Your position," continued the stranger, "appears to me to be this--that without my assistance
your clock will be worth nothing, while you will remain quietly in prison here, charged besides,
as far as I can understand the matter, with some political offense; that Marguerite will either
pine away or atone for your loss by amusing herself with some of your friends--Carl and Krantz
for instance. You see I am au fait with all your domestic matters."

Oh, jealousy! oh, cowardice of the heart! At the name of Carl the blood flew to Dumiger's temples.
It just occurred to him that it was strange that Marguerite should have gone to him for assistance
without any direction from himself to do so. Root out the feeling, Dumiger; root it out, or
you are lost.

The stranger smiled sarcastically, but affected not to notice his flushed cheek and faltering
voice.

"Now there is but one means to relieve yourself from all these risks and this load of misery."

"Again I inquire, what is it?" said Dumiger.

"Sell me your clock: I have come to purchase it on the part of the free city of Hamburgh,"
was the calm, deliberate reply.

"Sell my clock!" echoed Dumiger.

"The city of Hamburgh," continued the stranger, without appearing to remark Dumiger's exclamation,
"authorizes me to offer for the clock of best workmanship, the freedom of her walls, an income
of four thousand dollars, a place in the chief council with due precedence, and many other
minor advantages. If you accept these terms a large installment of money will be paid within
three days,--that is, within the time for the return of post. You will naturally inquire, Why
the city of Hambro' should make so extravagant an offer? I will recall to you the extreme jealousy
which has always existed between these two great commercial cities. You will remember that
this rivalry is unceasing--that it comprehends all things, the smallest as well as the greatest.
They attempted to vie with each other in the construction of their doms: Dantzic gained the
advantage. The fame and the prize given for excellence in these clocks, and of the unrivaled
workmanship which may be expected, has spread throughout Germany. The inhabitants of Hambro'
are inferior in science. They wish to obtain a piece of workmanship which shall be unrivaled,
in the easiest manner, and I was sent here to negotiate the purchase. Well, I was selected
by the Council here as one of the judges. It is an act of treachery--granted: that cannot affect
you. All that there is for you to decide on are the terms I have offered you."

"Oh! Marguerite!" exclaimed Dumiger, "if you were here, what would you counsel?"

