"A pretty expensive house," began Thorny, looking about for the interesting orphans, who had
been left on the floor while their paper-hangings were examined.

No further anxiety need be felt for them, however, Kitty had come upon the scene; and as judge,
jury, and prisoner, turned to find the little witnesses, they beheld the last pink mite going
down Pussy's throat in one mouthful.

"I call that summary justice,--the whole family executed on the spot! Give Kit the mouse also,
and let us go to breakfast. I feel as if I had found my appetite, now this worry is off my
mind," said Miss Celia, laughing so infectiously that Ben had to join in spite of himself,
as she took his arm and led him away with a look which mutely asked his pardon over again.

"Rather lively for a funeral procession," said Thorny, following with the trap in his hand
and Puss at his heels, adding, to comfort his pride as a detective: "Well, I said I'd catch
the thief, and I have, though it is rather a small one!"

CHAPTER XVII.

BETTY'S BRAVERY.

"Celia, I've notion that we ought to give Ben something. A sort of peace-offering, you know;
for he feels dreadfully hurt about our suspecting him," said Thorny, at dinner that day.

"I see he does, though he tries to seem as bright and pleasant as ever. I do not wonder, and
I've been thinking what I could do to soothe his feelings. Can you suggest anything?"

"Cuff-buttons. I saw some jolly ones over at Berryville,--oxidized silver, with dogs' heads
on them, yellow eyes, and all as natural as could be. Those, now, would just suit him for his
go-to-meeting white shirts,--neat, appropriate, and in memoriam."

Miss Celia could not help laughing, it was such a boyish suggestion; but she agreed to it,
thinking Thorny knew best, and hoping the yellow-eyed dogs would be as balm to Ben's wounds.

"Well, dear, you may give those, and Lita shall give the little whip with a horse's foot for
a handle, if it is not gone. I saw it at the harness shop in town, and Ben admired it so much
that I planned to give it to him on his birthday."

"That will tickle him immensely; and if you'd just let him put brown tops to my old boots and
stick a cockade in his hat when he sits up behind the phaeton, he'd be a happy fellow!" laughed
Thorny, who had discovered that one of Ben's ambitions was to be a "tip-top groom."

"No, thank you; those things are out of place in America, and would be absurd in a small country
place like this. His blue suit and straw hat please me better for a boy, though a nicer little
groom, in livery or out, no one could desire, and you may tell him I said so."

"I will, and he'll look as proud as Punch; for he thinks every word you say worth a dozen from
any one else. But wont you give him something? Just some little trifle, to show that we are
both eating humble pie, feeling sorry about the mouse money."

"I shall give him a set of school-books, and try to get him ready to begin when vacation is
over. An education is the best present we can make him, and I want you to help me fit him to
enter as well as we can. Bab and Betty, began, little dears,--lent him their books and taught
all they knew; so Ben got a taste, and, with the right encouragement, would like to go on,
I am sure."

"That's so like you, Celia. Always thinking of the best thing and doing it handsomely. I'll
help like a house a-fire, if he will let me; but, all day, he's been as stiff as a poker, so
I don't believe he forgives me a bit."

"He will in time, and if you are kind and patient he will be glad to have you help him; I shall
make it a sort of favor to me on his part, to let you see to his lessons, now and then. It
will be quite true, for I don't want you to touch your Latin or algebra till cool weather;
teaching him will be play to you."

Miss Celia's last words made her brother unbend his brows, for he longed to get at his books
again, and the idea of being tutor to his "man-servant" did not altogether suit him.

"I'll tool him along at a great pace, if he will only go. Geography and arithmetic shall be
my share, and you may have the writing and spelling; it gives me the fidgets to set copies
and hear children make a mess of words. Shall I get the books when I buy the other things?
Can I go this afternoon?"

"Yes, here is the list, Bab gave it to me. You can go if you will come home early and have
your tooth filled."

Gloom fell at once upon Thorny's beaming face, and he gave such a shrill whistle that his sister
jumped in her chair, as she added, persuasively:

"It wont hurt a bit, now, and the longer you leave it the worse it will be. Dr. Mann is ready
at any time, and once over you will be at peace for months. Come, my hero, give your orders,
and take one of the girls to support you in the trying hour. Have Bab, she will enjoy it and
amuse you with her chatter."

"As if I needed girls around for such a trifle as that!" returned Thorny, with a shrug, though
he groaned inwardly at the prospect before him, as most of us do on such occasions. "I wouldn't
take Bab at any price; she'd only get into some scrape and upset the whole plan. Betty is the
chicken for me,--a real little lady, and as nice and purry as a kitten."

"Very well; ask her mother, and take good care of her. Let her tuck her dolly in, and she will
be contented anywhere. There's a fine air, and the awning is on the phaeton, so you wont feel
the sun. Start about three, and drive carefully."

Betty was charmed to go, for Thorny was a sort of prince in her eyes, and to be invited to
such a grand expedition was an overwhelming honor. Bab was not surprised, for, since Sancho's
loss, she had felt herself in disgrace and been unusually meek; Ben let her "severely alone,"
which much afflicted her, for he was her great admiration, and had been pleased to express
his approbation of her agility and courage so often that she was ready to attempt any fool-hardy
feat to recover his regard. But vainly did she risk her neck jumping off the highest beams
in the barn, trying to keep her balance standing on the donkey's back, and leaping the lodge
gate at a bound; Ben vouchsafed no reward by a look, a smile, a word of commendation, and Bab
felt that nothing but Sancho's return would ever restore the broken friendship.

Into faithful Betty's bosom did she pour forth her remorseful lamentations, often bursting
out with the passionate exclamation, "If I could only find Sanch and give him back to Ben,
I wouldn't care if I tumbled down and broke all my legs right away!" Such abandonment of woe
made a deep impression on Betty, and she fell into the way of consoling her sister by cheerful
prophecies and a firm belief that the organ-man would yet appear with the lost darling.

"I've got five cents of my berry money, and I'll buy you a orange if I see any," promised Betty,
stopping to kiss Bab, as the phaeton came to the door, and Thorny handed in a young lady whose
white frock was so stiff with starch that it crackled like paper.

"Lemons will do if oranges are gone. I like 'em to suck with lots of sugar," answered Bab,
feeling that the sour sadly predominated in her cup just now.

"Don't she look sweet, the dear!" murmured Mrs. Moss, proudly surveying her youngest.

She certainly did, sitting under the fringed canopy with "Belinda," all in her best, upon her
lap, as she turned to smile and nod, with a face so bright and winsome under the little blue
hat, that it was no wonder mother and sister thought there never was such a perfect child as
"our Betty."

Dr. Mann was busy when they arrived, but would be ready in an hour, so they did their shopping
at once, having made sure of the whip as they came along. Thorny added some candy to Bab's
lemon, and Belinda had a cake, which her mamma obligingly ate for her. Betty thought that Aladdin's
palace could not have been more splendid than the jeweler's shop where the canine cuff-buttons
were bought; but when they came to the book-store she forgot gold, silver, and precious stones,
to revel in picture-books, while Thorny selected Ben's modest school outfit. Seeing her delight,
and feeling particularly lavish with plenty of money in his pocket, the young gentleman completed
the child's bliss by telling her to choose whichever one she liked best out of the pile of
Walter Crane's toy-books lying in bewildering colors before her.

"This one; Bab always wanted to see the dreadful cupboard, and there's a picture of it here,"
answered Betty, clasping a gorgeous copy of "Blue-beard" to the little bosom, which still heaved
with the rapture of looking at that delicious mixture of lovely Fatimas in pale azure gowns,
pink Sister Annes on the turret top, crimson tyrants, and yellow brothers with forests of plumage
blowing wildly from their mushroom-shaped caps.

"Very good; there you are, then. Now, come on, for the fun is over and the grind begins," said
Thorny, marching away to his doom, with his tongue in his tooth and trepidation in his manly
breast.

"Shall I shut my eyes and hold your head?" quavered devoted Betty, as they went up the steps
so many reluctant feet had mounted before them.

"Nonsense, child, never mind me! You look out of window and amuse yourself; we shall not be
long, I guess," and in went Thorny, silently hoping that the dentist had been suddenly called
away, or some person with an excruciating toothache would be waiting to take ether, and so
give our young man an excuse for postponing his job.

But no; Dr. Mann was quite at leisure, and, full of smiling interest, awaited his victim, laying
forth his unpleasant little tools with the exasperating alacrity of his kind. Glad to be released
from any share in the operation, Betty retired to the back window to be as far away as possible,
and for half an hour was so absorbed in her book that poor Thorny might have groaned dismally
without disturbing her.

"Done now, directly; only a trifle of polishing off and a look round," said Dr. Mann, at last,
and Thorny, with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder, called out:

"Thank goodness! Pack up, Bettykin."

"I'm all ready," and, shutting her book with a start, she slipped down from the easy-chair
in a great hurry.

But "looking round" took time, and before the circuit of Thorny's mouth was satisfactorily
made, Betty had become absorbed by a more interesting tale than even the immortal "Blue-beard."
A noise of children's voices in the narrow alley-way behind the house attracted her attention;
the long window opened directly on the yard, and the gate swung in the wind. Curious as Fatima,
Betty went to look; but all she saw was a group of excited boys peeping between the bars of
another gate further down.

"What's the matter?" she asked of two small girls, who stood close by her, longing but not
daring to approach the scene of action.

"Boys chasing a great black cat, I believe," answered one child.

"Want to come and see?" added the other, politely extending the invitation to the stranger.

The thought of a cat in trouble would have nerved Betty to face a dozen boys, so she followed
at once, meeting several lads hurrying away on some important errand, to judge from their anxious
countenances.

"Hold tight, Jimmy, and let 'em peek, if they want to. He can't hurt anybody now," said one
of the dusty huntsmen, who sat on the wide coping of the wall, while two others held the gate,
as if a cat could only escape that way.

"You peek first, Susy, and see if it looks nice," said one little girl, boosting her friend
so that she could look through the bars in the upper part of the gate.

"No; it's only an ugly old dog!" responded Susy, losing all interest at once, and descending
with a bounce.

"He's mad, and Jud's gone to get his gun so we can shoot him," called out one mischievous boy,
resenting the contempt expressed for their capture.

"Aint, neither!" howled another lad from his perch. "Mad dogs wont drink, and this one is lapping
out of a tub of water!"

"Well, he may be, and we don't know him, and he hasn't got any muzzle on, and the police will
kill him if Jud don't," answered the sanguinary youth who had first started the chase after
the poor animal, which had come limping into town, so evidently a lost dog that no one felt
any hesitation in stoning him.

"We must go right home; my mother is dreadful 'fraid of mad dogs, and so is yours," said Susy;
and, having satisfied their curiosity, the young ladies prudently retired.

But Betty had not had her "peep," and could not resist one look; for she had heard of these
unhappy animals, and thought Bab would like to know how they looked. So she stood on tip-toe
and got a good view of a dusty, brownish dog, lying on the grass close by, with his tongue
hanging out while he panted, as if exhausted by fatigue and fear, for he still cast apprehensive
glances at the wall which divided him from his tormentors.

"His eyes are just like Sanch's," said Betty to herself, unconscious that she spoke aloud,
till she saw the creature prick up his ears and half rise, as if he had been called.

"He looks as if he knew me, but it isn't our Sancho; he was a lovely dog." Betty said that
to the little boy peeping in beside her; but before he could make any reply, the brown beast
stood straight up with an inquiring bark, while his eyes shone like topaz, and the short tail
wagged excitedly.

"Why, that's just the way Sanch used to do!" cried Betty, bewildered by the familiar ways of
this unfamiliar-looking dog.

As if the repetition of his name settled his own doubts, he leaped toward the gate and thrust
a pink nose between the bars, with a howl of recognition as Betty's face was more clearly seen.
The boys tumbled precipitately from their perches, and the little girl fell back alarmed, yet
could not bear to run away and leave those imploring eyes pleading to her through the bars
so eloquently.

"He acts just like our dog, but I don't see how it can be him. Sancho, Sancho, is it truly
you?" called Betty, at her wits' end what to do.

"Bow, wow, wow!" answered the well-known bark, and the little tail did all it could to emphasize
the sound, while the eyes were so full of dumb love and joy, the child could not refuse to
believe that this ugly stray was their own Sancho strangely transformed.

All of a sudden, the thought rushed into her mind, "How glad Ben would be!--and Bab would feel
all happy again. I must carry him home."

Never stopping to think of danger, and forgetting all her doubts, Betty caught the gate handle
out of Jimmy's grasp, exclaiming eagerly: "He is our dog! Let me go in; I aint afraid."

"Not till Jud comes back; he told us we mustn't," answered the astonished Jimmy, thinking the
little girl as mad as the dog.

With a confused idea that the unknown Jud had gone for a gun to shoot Sanch, Betty gave a desperate
pull at the latch and ran into the yard, bent on saving her friend. That it was a friend there
could be no further question; for, though the creature rushed at her as if about to devour
her at a mouthful, it was only to roll ecstatically at her feet, lick her hands, and gaze into
her face, trying to pant out the welcome which he could not utter. An older and more prudent
person would have waited to make sure before venturing in; but confiding Betty knew little
of the danger which she might have run; her heart spoke more quickly than her head, and, not
stopping to have the truth proved, she took the brown dog on trust, and found it was indeed
dear Sanch.

Sitting on the grass, she hugged him close, careless of tumbled hat, dusty paws on her clean
frock, or a row of strange boys staring from the wall.

"Darling doggy, where have you been so long?" she cried, the great thing sprawling across her
lap, as if he could not get near enough to his brave little protector. "Did they make you black
and beat you, dear? Oh, Sanch, where is your tail--your pretty tail?"

A plaintive growl and a pathetic wag was all the answer he could make to these tender inquiries;
for never would the story of his wrongs be known, and never could the glory of his doggish
beauty be restored. Betty was trying to comfort him with pats and praises, when a new face
appeared at the gate, and Thorny's authoritative voice called out:

"Betty Moss, what on earth are you doing in there with that dirty beast?"

"It's Sanch, it's Sanch! Oh, come and see!" shrieked Betty, flying up to lead forth her prize.

But the gate was held fast, for some one said the words, "Mad dog," and Thorny was very naturally
alarmed, because he had already seen one. "Don't stay there another minute. Get up on that
bench and I'll pull you over," directed Thorny, mounting the wall to rescue his charge in hot
haste; for the dog did certainly behave queerly, limping hurriedly to and fro, as if anxious
to escape. No wonder, when Sancho heard a voice he knew, and recognized another face, yet did
not meet as kind a welcome as before.

"No, I'm not coming out till he does. It is Sanch, and I'm going to take him home to Ben,"
answered Betty, decidedly, as she wet her handkerchief in the rain water to bind up the swollen
paw that had traveled many miles to rest in her little hand again.

"You're crazy, child! That is no more Ben's dog than I am."

"See if it isn't!" cried Betty, perfectly unshaken in her faith; and, recalling the words of
command as well as she could, she tried to put Sancho through his little performance, as the
surest proof that she was right. The poor fellow did his best, weary and footsore though he
was; but when it came to taking his tail in his mouth to waltz, he gave it up, and, dropping
down, hid his face in his paws, as he always did when any of his tricks failed. The act was
almost pathetic now, for one of the paws was bandaged, and his whole attitude expressed the
humiliation of a broken spirit.

That touched Thorny, and, quite convinced both of the dog's sanity and identity, he sprung
down from the wall with Ben's own whistle, which gladdened Sancho's longing ear as much as
the boy's rough caresses comforted his homesick heart.

"Now, let's carry him right home, and surprise Ben. Wont he be pleased?" said Betty, so in
earnest that she tried to lift the big brute in spite of his protesting yelps.

"You are a little trump to find him out in spite of all the horrid things that have been done
to him. We must have a rope to lead him, for he's got no collar and no muzzle. He has got friends
though, and I'd like to see any one touch him now. Out of the way, there, boys!" Looking as
commanding as a drum-major, Thorny cleared a passage, and with one arm about his neck, Betty
proudly led her treasure forth, magnanimously ignoring his late foes, and keeping his eye fixed
on the faithful friend whose tender little heart had known him in spite of all disguises.

"I found him, sir," and the lad who had been most eager for the shooting, stepped forward to
claim any reward that might be offered for the now valuable victim.

"I kept him safe till she came," added the jailer Jimmy, speaking for himself.

"I said he wasn't mad," cried a third, feeling that his discrimination deserved approval.

"Jud aint my brother," said the fourth, eager to clear his skirts from all offense.

"But all of you chased and stoned him, I suppose? You'd better look out or you'll get reported
to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals."

