OLD-FASHIONED ETHICS AND COMMON-SENSE METAPHYSICS

With Some of Their Applications

by

WILLIAM THOMAS THORNTON

Author of a Treatise 'On Labour'

London Macmillan and Co. 1873

All rights reserved

     'I entirely agree with you as to the ill tendency of the affected
     doubts of some philosophers and the fantastical conceits of others.
     I am even so far gone of late in this way of thinking, that I have
     quitted several of the sublime notions I had got in their schools
     for vulgar opinions. And I give it you on my word, that since this
     revolt from metaphysical notions to the plain dictates of nature
     and common sense, I find my understanding strangely enlightened, so
     that I can now easily comprehend a great many things which before
     were all mystery and riddle.'--BERKELEY'S HYLAS AND PHILONOUS.

PREFACE.

The book was all but finished, and only the Preface remained, over which I was hesitating,
apprehensive equally of putting into it too much and too little, when one of the most frequent
'companions of my solitude' came to my aid, shewing me, in fragments, a preface already nearly
written, and needing only a little piecing to become forthwith presentable. Here it is.

'In these sick days, in a world such as ours, richer than usual in Truths grown obsolete, what
can the fool think but that it is all a Den of Lies wherein whoso will not speak and act Lies
must stand idle and despair?' Whereby it happens that for the artist who would fain minister
medicinally to the relief of folly, 'the publishing of a Work of Art,' designed, like this,
to redeem Truth from premature obsolescence, 'becomes almost a necessity.' For, albeit, 'in
the heart of the speaker there ought to be some kind of gospel tidings burning until it be
uttered, so that otherwise it were better for him that he altogether held his peace,' still,
than to have fire burning within, and not to put it forth, not many worse things are readily
imaginable. I tell thee, Nay!

CADOGAN PLACE: December 1872.

CONTENTS.

  CHAPTER                                                           PAGE

  I. ANTI-UTILITARIANISM                                               1

  II. HISTORY'S SCIENTIFIC PRETENSIONS                                84

  III. DAVID HUME AS A METAPHYSICIAN                                 113

  IV. HUXLEYISM                                                      158

  V. RECENT PHASES OF SCIENTIFIC ATHEISM                             199

  VI. LIMITS OF DEMONSTRABLE THEISM                                  266

    EPILOGUE                                                         298

OLD-FASHIONED ETHICS

AND

COMMON-SENSE METAPHYSICS

CHAPTER I.

ANTI-UTILITARIANISM.

I.

Having, by the heading of this essay, announced that it is intended to be partly controversial,
I can scarcely begin better than by furnishing the reader with the means of judging whether
I myself correctly apprehend the doctrine which I am about to criticise. If, then, I were myself
an Utilitarian, and, for the sake either of vindicating my own belief, or of making converts
of other people, had undertaken to explain what Utilitarianism is, I should set about the task
somewhat in this wise:--

The sole use and sole object of existence is enjoyment or pleasure, which two words will here
be treated as synonymous; happiness, also, though not quite identical in meaning, being occasionally
substituted for them. Enjoyment, it must be observed, is of very various kinds, measures, and
degrees. It may be sensual, or emotional, or imaginative, or intellectual, or moral. It may
be momentary or eternal; intoxicating delight or sober satisfaction. It may be unmixed and
undisturbed, in which case, however short of duration or coarse in quality, it may in strictness
be called happiness; or it may be troubled and alloyed, although of a flavour which would be
exquisite if pure, and if there were nothing to interfere with the perception of it. Understood,
however, in a sufficiently comprehensive sense, enjoyment or pleasure may be clearly perceived
to be the sole object of existence. The whole value of life plainly consists of the enjoyment,
present or future, which life affords, or is capable of affording or securing. Now, the excellence
of all rules depends on their conduciveness to the object they have in view. The excellence
of all rules of life must, therefore, depend on their conduciveness to the sole object which
life has in view, viz., enjoyment. But the excellence of rules of life, or of conduct or modes
of acting, would seem to be but another name for their morality, and the morality of actions
obviously depends on their conformity to moral rules. Whence, if so much be admitted, it necessarily
follows that the test of the morality of actions is their conduciveness to enjoyment.

But the enjoyment thus referred to is not that of the agent alone, for if it were, no action
whatever could possibly be immoral. Whatever any one does, he does either because to do it
gives him or promises him pleasure, or because he believes that the not doing it would subject
him to more pain than he will suffer from doing it. Besides, one person's enjoyment may be
obtained at the expense of other people's suffering, so that an act in which the actor takes
pleasure may destroy or prevent more pleasure altogether than it creates. The enjoyment or
happiness, therefore, which Utilitarianism regards, is not individual, but general happiness;
not that of one or of a few, but of the many, nor even of the many only. It is often declared
to be the greatest happiness of the greatest number, but it may with more accuracy be described
as the largest aggregate of happiness attainable by any or by all concerned.[1] Again, an action
which, in some particular instance, causes more pleasure than pain to those affected by it,
may yet belong to a class of actions which, in the generality of cases, causes more pain than
pleasure, and may thus involve a violation of a moral rule, and, consequently, be itself immoral.
Wherefore the enjoyment which Utilitarianism adopts as its moral test is not simply the greatest
sum of enjoyment for all concerned, but that greatest sum in the greatest number of cases.
In its widest signification it is the greatest happiness of society at large and in the long
run. From these premises a decisive criterion of right and wrong may be deduced. Every action
belonging to a class calculated to promote the permanent happiness of society is right. Every
action belonging to a class opposed to the permanent happiness of society is wrong.

In the foregoing exposition I have, I trust, evinced a sincere desire to give Utilitarianism
its full due, and I shall at least be admitted to have shown myself entirely free from most
of those more vulgar misconceptions of its nature which have given its professors such just
offence. Many of its assailants have not scrupled to stigmatise as worthy only of swine a doctrine
which represents life as having no better and nobler object of desire and pursuit than pleasure.
To these, however, it has, by the great apostle of Utilitarianism, been triumphantly replied
that it is really they themselves who insult human nature by using language that assumes human
beings to be capable of no higher pleasures than those of which swine are capable; and that,
moreover, if the assumption were correct, and if the capacities of men and of swine were identical,
whatever rule of life were good enough for the latter would likewise be good enough for the
former. But I am not an assailant of this description. Inasmuch as there undeniably are very
many and very various kinds of pleasure, I of course allow Utilitarianism credit for common
sense enough to acknowledge that those kinds are most worthy of pursuit which, from whatever
cause, possess most value--that those which are most precious are those most to be prized.
But whoever allows thus much will have no alternative but to concede a great deal more. The
most precious of pleasures is that which arises from the practice of virtue, as may be proved
conclusively in the only way of which the case admits, viz., by reference to the fact that,
whoever is equally acquainted with that and with other pleasures, deliberately prefers it to
all the rest, will, if necessary, forego all others for its sake, and values no others obtainable
only at its expense. By necessary implication it follows that, as being more valuable than
any other, the pleasure arising from the practice of virtue must be that which Utilitarianism
recommends above all others as an object of pursuit. But the pursuit of this particular pleasure
and the practice of virtue are synonymous terms. What, therefore, Utilitarianism above all
other things recommends and insists upon is the practice of virtue. Now, the practice of virtue
commonly involves subordination of one's own interest to that of other people; indeed, virtue
would not be virtue in the utilitarian sense of the word unless it did involve such subordination.
Wherefore the pleasure arising from the practice of virtue, the pleasure which occupies the
highest place on the utilitarian scale, and that which Utilitarianism exhorts its disciples
chiefly to seek after, is nothing else than the pleasure derived from attending to other people's
pleasure instead of to our own.

Nor is this all. In order adequately to appreciate the loftiness of utilitarian teaching, and
its utter exemption from the sordidness with which it is ignorantly charged, we must devote
a few moments to examination of those distinctive peculiarities of different kinds of pleasure
which entitle them to different places in our esteem.

All pleasures may be arranged under five heads, and in regularly ascending series, as follows:--

1. Sensual pleasures:--To wit, those of eating and drinking, and whatever others are altogether
of the flesh, fleshly.

2. Emotional, by which are to be understood agreeable moods of the mind, such as, irrespectively
of any agreeable idea brought forward simultaneously by association, are produced by music
('for,' as Milton says, 'eloquence the soul, song charms the sense'), by beauty of form or
colour, by genial sunshine, by balmy or invigorating air.

3. Imaginative, or pleasures derived from the contemplation of mental pictures.

4. Intellectual, or those consequent on exercise of the reasoning powers.

5. Moral, or those which are alluded to when virtue is spoken of as being its own reward.[2]

That of these several kinds, each of the last four is preferable to any preceding it on the
list will, it is to be hoped, be allowed to pass as an unquestioned truth, for to any one perverse
enough to deny it, the only answer that can be made is an appeal to observation in proof that
all persons who are equally acquainted with the several kinds do exhibit the preferences indicated.
Neither, so far as the two kinds first-named alone are concerned, is it possible to go much
more deeply into the reasons why emotional pleasures are to be preferred to sensual, than by
pointing to the fact that all competent judges of both are observed to like the former best.
If all those who are endowed with equal sensitiveness of ear and of palate prefer music to
feasting, and would any day give up a dinner at Francatelli's for the sake of hearing a rejuvenescent
Persiani as Zerlina, or Patti as Dinorah, the one thing presumable is, that all such persons
derive more enjoyment from perfect melody than from perfect cookery, and little else remains
to be said on the subject. The same ultimate fact need not, however, limit our inquiry as to
the preferableness of imaginative or intellectual to emotional pleasures, and of moral to any
of the other three. This admits of, and demands, a more subtle explanation, from which we may
learn, not merely that certain preferences are shown, but also why they are shown. The preferences
in question are demonstrably not due to the greater poignancy of the pleasures preferred. It
is simply not true that the keenest of imaginative pleasures is keener than the keenest of
emotional, and still less that the keenest of intellectual is so. The very reverse is the truth.
The supremest delight attainable in fancy's most romantic flight is, I suspect, faint in comparison
with the sort of ecstasy into which a child of freshly-strung nerves is sometimes thrown by
the mere brilliance or balminess of a summer's day, and with which even we, dulled adults,
provided we be in the right humour, and that all things are in a concatenation accordingly,
are now and then momentarily affected while listening to the wood-notes wild of a nightingale,
or a Jenny Lind, or while gazing on star-lit sky or moon-lit sea, or on the snowy or dolomite
peaks of a mountain range fulgent with the violet and purple glories of the setting sun. And
yet the choicest snatches of such beatitude with which--at least, after the fine edge of our
susceptibilities has been worn away by the world's friction--we creatures of coarse human mould
are ever indulged, are but poor in comparison with the rich abundance of the same in which
some more delicately-constituted organisms habitually revel. If we would understand of what
development emotional delight is capable, we should watch the skylark. As that 'blithe spirit'
now at heaven's gate 'poureth its full heart,' and anon can

        Scarce get out his notes for joy,
  But shakes his song together as he nears
  His happy home, the ground,

what poet but must needs confess with Shelley, that in his most rapturous dream, his transport
never came nigh the bird's? And yet what poet would change conditions with the lark? Nay, what
student or philosopher would? albeit the utmost gratification ever earned by either of these
in the prosecution of his special calling--in acquiring knowledge, in solving knotty problems,
or in scaling the heights of abstract contemplation--is probably as inferior in keenness of
zest to that which the poet knows, as the best prose is inferior in charm to the best poetry.
It may even be that both poet and philosopher owe, on the whole, more unhappiness than happiness--the
one to his superior sensibility, the other to his superior enlightenment, and yet neither would
exchange his own lesser happiness for the greater happiness of the lark. Why would he not?
It is no sufficient answer to say that in the lark's happiness there are few, if any, imaginative
or intellectual ingredients; that it is almost utterly unideal, almost purely emotional, exactly
the same in kind, and only higher in degree, than the glee of puppies or kittens at play. The
question recurs as forcibly as ever, why--seeing that enjoyment is the one thing desirable,
the only thing either valuable in itself, or that gives value to other things--why is it that
no intelligent man would accept, in lieu of his own, another mode of existence, in which, although
debarred from the joys of thought and fancy, he nevertheless has reason to believe that the
share of enjoyment falling to his lot would be greater, both in quantity and sapidity, than
it is at present? The following seems to me to be the explanation of the mystery.

It might be too much to say that nothing can please a person who is not pleased with himself,
but it is at any rate clear that nothing can greatly please him which interferes with his self-satisfaction.
Now imaginative and intellectual enjoyment, each of them, involves the exercise of a special
and superior faculty, mere consciousness of the possession of which helps to make the possessor
satisfied with himself. It exalts what Mr. Mill aptly terms his sense of dignity, a sense possessed
in some form or other by every human being, and one so essential to that self-satisfaction
without which all pleasure would be tasteless, that nothing which conflicts with it can be
an object of serious desire. In virtue of this special faculty, the most wretched of men holds
himself to be superior to the most joyous of larks. To divest himself of it would be to lower
himself towards the level of the bird, and to commit such an act of self-degradation would
occasion to him an amount of pain which he is not disposed to incur for the sake of any amount
of pleasure obtainable at its expense. It is, then, the fear of pain which prevents his wishing
to be turned into a lark. He is not ignorant that he would be happier for the metamorphosis,
but he dreads the pain that must precede the increase of happiness, more than he desires the
increase of happiness that would follow the pain.

The force of these considerations will be equally, or more apparent, on their being applied
to analysis of moral pleasures. That these are the most truly precious of all pleasures, is
proved by their being habitually more highly prized than any others by all who are qualified
to make the comparison. But why are they so prized? Not, as I am constrained, however reluctantly,
to admit, on account of their greater keenness as pleasures. It would be at best but well-meaning
cant to pretend that the self-approval, the sympathetic participation in other people's augmented
welfare, the grateful consciousness of having done that which is pleasing in our Heavenly Father's
sight, together with whatever else helps to compose the internal reward of virtue, constitute
a sum total of delight nearly as exquisite as that which may be obtained in a variety of other
ways. The mere circumstance of there being invariably included in a just or generous action
more or less of self-denial, self-restraint, or self-sacrifice, must always sober down the
gratification by which virtue is rewarded, and make it appear tame beside the delirium of gladness
caused by many things with which virtue has nothing to do. We will charitably suppose that
the occupant of a dukedom, who should secretly light upon conclusive proof that it was not
his by right, would at once abandon it to the legal heir, and we need not doubt that he would
subsequently be, on the whole, well content to have so acted, but we cannot suppose that he
would make the surrender with anything like the elation with which he entered on the estate
and title. If there were really no pleasure equal to that with which virtue recompenses its
votaries, the performance of a virtuous act would always make a man happier than previously;
moreover, the greater the virtue, the greater would be the consequent pleasure. But any one
may see that an act of the most exalted virtue, far from increasing, often utterly destroys
the agent's happiness. Imagine an affectionate father, some second Brutus or second Fitzstephen
of Galway, constrained by overwhelming sense of duty to sentence a beloved son to death, or
a bankrupt beggaring himself and his family by honestly making over to his creditors property
with which he might have safely absconded. Plainly, such virtuous achievement, far from adding
to the happiness of its author, has plunged him in an abyss of misery, his only comfort being
that in the lowest deep there is, as we shall presently see, a lower deep still. Far from being
happier than he was before acting as he has done, he would be much happier if, being vicious
instead of virtuous, he had not felt bound so to act. Unquestionably, what either upright judge
or honest bankrupt has incurred--the one by becoming a saticide, the other by making himself
a beggar--is pure and simple pain, unmitigated by one particle of positive pleasure. Yet it
is at the same time certain that the virtue of each has in some form or other given full compensation
for the pain it has occasioned, for not only was that pain deliberately incurred in lieu of
the pleasure which it has supplanted, but restoration of the pleasure would now be refused,
if reversal of the virtuous conduct were made a condition of the restoration. In what, then,
does the compensation consist? In nothing else than this, in judge or bankrupt having been
saved from pain still greater than that which he is actually suffering. Wretched as he is,
infinitely more wretched than he was before there was any call upon him to act as he has done,
he is less wretched than he would be if, recognising the obligation so to act, he had not so
acted. He has escaped the stings of conscience, the sense of having wronged his neighbour and
offended his God; he has escaped, in short, self-condemnation--a torment so intolerable to
those so constituted as to be susceptible of it, that hell itself has been known to be, in
imagination at least, preferred to it. Mr. Mill's splendid outburst that, rather than worship
a fiend that could send him to hell for refusing, he would go to hell as he was bid, will doubtless
occur to every reader.

This, however, is all. In both the supposed cases, as in every one in which virtue consists
of compliance with a painful duty, the pleasure arising from the practice of virtue cannot
in strictness be called pleasure at all. At best it is but a partial negation of pain; more
properly, indeed, the substitution of one pain for another more acute. Yet this mere negation,
this ethereal inanity, is pronounced by Utilitarianism to be preferable to aught that can come
into competition with it. Truly it is somewhat hard upon those who attend to such teaching,
to be reproached with their grossness of taste and likened to hogs, for no better reason than
their predilection for the lightest of all conceivable diets. Still harder will this seem,
when we recollect that Utilitarians are exhorted to be virtuous, less for their own than for
other people's sakes. If, indeed, virtue were practised by all mankind, the utilitarian idea
of the greatest possible happiness, or, at least, of the greatest possible exemption from unhappiness,
would be universally realised. Still, it is in order that they may afford pleasure to the community
at large, rather than that they may obtain it for themselves; it is that they may save, not
so much themselves, as the community, from pain, that individual Utilitarians are charged to
be virtuous. Among those pleasures, whether positive or negative, which it is allowable to
them to seek for themselves, the first place is assigned to the pleasure arising from the sense
of giving pleasure to others. Thus, not only is it the purest of pleasures that Utilitarianism
chiefly recommends for pursuit: even that pleasure is to be pursued only from the purest and
most disinterested motives.

All this I frankly acknowledge; and I own, too, that, far from deserving to be stigmatised
as irreligious, Utilitarianism is literally nothing else than an amplification of one moiety
of Christianity; that it not adopts merely, but expands, 'the golden rule of Jesus of Nazareth,'
exhorting us to love our neighbour, not simply as well, but better than ourselves; to do for
others, not simply what we would have them do for us, but much more than we could have the
face to ask them to do; not merely not to pursue our interests at the expense of theirs, but
to regard as our own chief interest the promotion of theirs. That on account of these exhortations
Utilitarianism is godless can be supposed by those only who suppose that love to one's neighbour
is contrary to the will of God. By those who believe that works are the best signs of faith,
and that love to God is best evinced by doing good to man, Utilitarianism might rather seem
to be but another name for practical religion.

So I say in all sincerity, though not without some misgiving, as while so speaking I involuntarily
bethink myself of Balaam, son of Beor, who having been called forth to curse, caught himself
blessing altogether. Mine eyes, too, have been opened to the good of that which I was purposed
to condemn, and behold I have as yet done nothing but eulogise. No warmest partisan of Utilitarianism,
not Mr. Mill himself, ever spoke more highly of it than I have just been doing. What censures,
then, can I have in reserve to countervail such praises? What grounds of quarrel can I have
with a system of ethics which I have described as ever seeking the noblest ends from the purest
motives; whose precepts I own to be as elevating as its aims are exalted? On reflection, I
am reassured by recollecting several, which I proceed to bring forward one at a time, beginning
with a sin enormous enough to cover any multitude of merits.

My first charge against Utilitarianism is that it is not true. I do not say that there is no
truth in it. That I have found much to admire in its premises has been frankly avowed; and
in one, at least, of the leading deductions from those premises I partially concur. I admit
that acts utterly without utility must likewise be utterly without worth; that conduct which
subserves the enjoyment neither of oneself nor of any one else, cannot, except in a very restricted
sense, be termed right; that conduct which interferes with the enjoyment both of oneself and
of all others, which injuring oneself injures others also, and benefits no one, cannot be otherwise
than wrong; that purely objectless asceticism which has not even self-discipline in view, is
not virtue, but folly; that misdirected charity which, engendering improvidence, creates more
distress than it relieves, is not virtue, but criminal weakness. But though admitting that
there can be no virtue without utility, I do not admit either that virtue must be absent unless
utility preponderate, or that if utility preponderate virtue must be present. I deny that any
amount of utility can of itself constitute virtue. I deny that whatever adds to the general
happiness must be right. Equally do I deny that whatever diminishes the general happiness or
prevents its increasing must be wrong. An action, be it observed, may be right in three different
senses. It may be right as being meritorious, and deserving of commendation. It may be right
as being that which one is bound to do, for the doing of which, therefore, one deserves no
praise, and for neglecting to do which one would justly incur blame. It may be right simply
as not being wrong--as being allowable--something which one has a right to do, though to refrain
from doing it might perhaps be praiseworthy. There will be little difficulty in adducing examples
of conduct which, though calculated to diminish the sum total of happiness, would be right
in the first of these senses. Nothing can be easier than to multiply examples of such conduct
that would be right in the third sense. I proceed to cite cases which will answer both these
purposes, and likewise the converse one of showing that conduct calculated to increase the
general happiness may nevertheless be wrong.

When the Grecian chiefs, assembled at Aulis, were waiting for a fair wind to convey them to
Ilium, they were, we are told, warned by what was to them as a voice from heaven, that their
enterprise would make no progress unless Agamemnon's daughter were sacrificed to Diana. In
order to place the details of the story in a light as little favourable as possible to my argument,
we will deviate somewhat from the accepted version, and will suppose that the arrested enterprise
was one of even greater pith and moment than tradition ascribes to it. We will suppose that
upon its successful prosecution depended the national existence of Greece; that its failure
would have involved the extermination of one-half of the people, and the slavery of the other
half. We will suppose, too, that of all this Iphigenia was as firmly persuaded as every one
else. In these circumstances, had her countrymen a right to insist on her immolation? If so,
on what was that right founded? Is it sufficient to say in reply that her death was essential
to the national happiness, to the extent even of being indispensable to prevent that happiness
from being converted into national woe? Manifestly, according to the hypothesis, it was expedient
for all concerned, with the single exception of herself, that she should die; but were the
others thereby entitled to take her life? Did the fact of its being for their advantage to
do this warrant their doing it? Simply because it was their interest, was it also their right?
Right, we must recollect, invariably implies corresponding duty. Right, it is clear, can never
be rightfully resisted. If it be the right of certain persons to do a certain thing, it must
be the duty of all other persons to let that thing be done. Where there is no such duty, there
can be no such right. Wherefore, if the 'stern, black-bearded kings, with wolfish eyes,' who
sate 'waiting to see her die,' had a right to kill Iphigenia, it must have been Iphigenia's
duty to let herself be killed. Was this then her duty? 'Duty,' as I have elsewhere observed,[3]
'signifies something due, a debt, indebtedness, and a debt cannot have been incurred for nothing,
or without some antecedent step on the part either of debtor or creditor.' But it is not pretended
that in any way whatever, by any antecedent act of hers or theirs, Iphigenia had incurred or
had been subjected to a debt to her countrymen which could be paid off only with her life.
It could not, then, be incumbent on her to let her life be taken in payment. If it had been
in her power to burst her bonds, and break through the wolves in human shape that girdled her
in, she would have been guilty of no wrong by escaping. But if not, then, however meritorious
it might have been on her part to consent to die for her countrymen, it was not her duty so
to die, nor, consequently, had they a right to put her to death. She would have been at least
negatively right in refusing to die, while they were guilty of a very positive and a very grievous
wrong in killing her, notwithstanding that both she and they were perfectly agreed that for
her to be killed would be for the incalculably greater happiness of a greater number, exceeding
the lesser number in the proportion of several hundreds of thousands to one.

It is true that throughout this affair every one concerned was labouring under a gross delusion--that
there was no real use in putting Iphigenia to death, and that nothing but superstition made
anybody suppose there was. I do not think the case is one less to our purpose on that account,
for Utilitarians, like other fallible mortals, are liable to deceive themselves. They never
can be quite secure of the genuineness of the utility on which they rely, and in default of
positive knowledge they will always be reduced to act, as the Grecian chiefs did, according
to the best of their convictions. Nevertheless, for the satisfaction of those who distrust
romance and insist upon reality, we will leave fable for fact, and take as our next illustration
an incident that may any day occur.

Imagine three shipwrecked mariners to have leapt from their sinking vessel into a cockboat
scarce big enough to hold them, and the two slimmer of the three to have presently discovered
that there was little or no chance of either of them reaching land unless their over-weighted
craft were lightened of their comparatively corpulent companion. Next, imagine yourself in
the fat sailor's place, and then consider whether you would feel it incumbent on you to submit
quietly to be drowned in order that the residuum of happiness might be greater than if either
you all three went to the bottom, or than if you alone were saved. Would you not, far from
recognising any such moral obligation, hold yourself morally justified in throwing the other
two overboard, if you were strong enough, and if need were, to prevent their similarly ousting
you? But if it were not your duty to allow yourself to be cast into the sea, the others could
have no right to cast you out; so that, if they did cast you out, they would clearly be doing
not right but wrong. And yet, as clearly, their wrong-doing would have conduced to the greater
happiness of the greater number, inasmuch as, while only one life could otherwise have been
saved, it would save two, and inasmuch as, coeteris paribus, two persons would necessarily
derive twice as much enjoyment from continued existence as one would. Moreover, their wrong-doing
would be of a kind calculated always to produce similarly useful results. It cannot, I suppose,
be denied that a rule to the effect that whenever forfeiture of one life would save two, one
life should be sacrificed, would--not exceptionally only, but at large and in the long run--conduce
to the saving of life, and therefore to the conservation of happiness connected with life.

The foregoing cases are no doubt both of them extreme, involving exaction of the largest possible
private sacrifice for the general good; but in all cases of the kind, whether the exaction
be small or great, the same governing principle equally applies. If you, a foot-sore, homeward-bound
pedestrian, on a sweltering July day, were to see your next-door neighbour driving in the same
direction in solitary state, would you have a right to stop his carriage and force yourself
in? Nay, even though you had just before fallen down and broken your leg, would the compassionating
by-standers be justified in forcing him to take you in? Or, again, if you were outside a coach
during a pelting shower, and saw a fellow-passenger with a spare umbrella between his legs,
while an unprotected female close beside was being drenched with the rain, would you have a
right to wrest the second umbrella from him, and hold it over her? That, very likely, is what
you would do in the circumstances, and few would be disposed greatly to blame the indignant
ebullition. Still, unless you are a disciple of Proudhon, you will scarcely pretend that you
can have a right to take possession of another's carriage or umbrella against the owner's will.
You can scarcely suppose that it is not for him but for you to decide what use shall be made
of articles belonging not to you but to him. Yet there can be no doubt that the happiness of
society would be vastly promoted if everyone felt himself under an irresistible obligation
to assist his neighbour whenever he could do so with little or no inconvenience to himself,
or, consequently, if external force were always at hand to constrain anyone so to assist who
was unwilling to do so of his own accord.

So much in proof that among things of the highest and most extensive utility there are several
which it would be decidedly the reverse of right to do, and several others which it would be
perfectly right to leave undone. I proceed to show that there are many other things not simply
not of preponderating utility, but calculated, on the contrary, to do more harm than good,
to destroy more happiness than they are capable of creating, which, nevertheless, it would
be not simply allowable to do, but the doing of which would be highly meritorious, acts possibly
of the most exalted virtue.

Let no one distrust the doctrine of development by reason of its supposed extravagance of pretension
who has not duly considered to what a sublime of moral beauty the united hideousness and absurdity
of Calvinism may give birth. In that Puritan society of New England of which Mrs. Beecher Stowe
has given so singularly interesting an account in her 'Minister's Wooing,' and among whose
members it was an universal article of belief that the bulk of mankind are created for the
express purpose of being consigned to everlasting flames, there are said to have been not a
few enthusiasts in whom a self-concentrating creed begat the very quintessence of self-devotion.
'As a gallant soldier renounces life and personal aims in the cause of his king and country,
and holds himself ready to be drafted for a forlorn hope, to be shot down, or help to make
a bridge of his mangled body, over which the more fortunate shall pass to victory and glory,'
so among the early descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers many an one 'regarded himself as devoted
to the King Eternal, ready in his hands to be used to illustrate and build up an eternal commonwealth,
either by being sacrificed as a lost spirit, or glorified as a redeemed one; ready to throw,
not merely his mortal life, but his immortality even, into the forlorn hope, to bridge, with
a never-dying soul, the chasm over which white-robed victors should pass to a commonwealth
of glory and splendour, whose vastness should dwarf the misery of all the lost to an infinitesimal.'
And while by many the idea of suffering everlasting pains for the glory of God, and the good
of being in general, was thus contemplated with equanimity, there were some few for whom the
idea of so suffering for the good of others dearer than themselves would have been greeted
with positive exultation. 'And don't I care for your soul, James?' exclaims Mary Scudder to
her lover. 'If I could take my hopes of heaven out of my own heart and give them to you, I
would. Dr. H. preached last Sunday on the text, "I could wish myself accursed from Christ for
my brethren, my kinsmen," and he went on to show how we must be willing to give up even our
own salvation, if necessary, for the good of others. People said it was a hard doctrine, but
I could feel my way through it. Yes, I would give my soul for yours. I wish I could.' Now we
must on no account permit admiration of Miss Scudder's transcendent generosity in desiring
to make this exchange blind us to the fatal effect on social happiness which, if such exchange
were possible, the prevalence of a disposition to make it could not fail to have. If Calvinism
were true instead of blasphemous, if God were really the Moloch it represents Him, and if,
moreover, Moloch were indifferent as to which of his offspring were cast into the fire, caring
only that the prescribed number of victims should be forthcoming in full tale, nothing can
be conceived more likely to prove an encouragement to evil-doers, and a terror to them that
did well, than observation that well-doing not infrequently led to eternal misery, and evil-doing
to eternal bliss. Again, if in China, where criminals under sentence of death are permitted,
if they can, by purchase or otherwise, to procure substitutes to die in their stead, a son
were to propose to die for a parent base enough to take advantage of the offer, could any arrangement
be more plainly repugnant to the common-weal than that by which society would thus lose one
of its noblest, instead of getting rid of one of its vilest members? Or, when in England, a
thrifty son, by consenting to cut the entail of an estate to which he is heir-apparent, enables
a prodigal father to consume in riotous living substance which would otherwise have eventually
become his, is he not clearly taking the worse course for the public by permitting the property
to be wasted, instead of causing it to be husbanded?

Beyond all question, American Puritan, Chinese or English devotee to filial affection, would
thus, each in her or his degree, have, in the circumstances supposed, acted in a manner opposed
to the general interest, and would therefore be condemned by Utilitarianism as having acted
immorally. Nor could this verdict be gainsaid if utility and morality were, as Utilitarianism
assumes them to be, one and the same thing. Clearly, that the just should suffer for the unjust,
the innocent for the guilty, is diametrically opposed to the welfare of society; wherefore,
according to utilitarian principles, by consenting so to suffer, the just becomes unjust, the
innocent renders himself guilty. But can there be a better proof that utilitarian principles
are unsound than that this should be a legitimate deduction from them? Can there be better
proof that utility and morality are not identical, but two absolutely distinct things? Plainly,
there can be no meritorious or commendable immorality; neither can there be any virtue which
is not meritorious and commendable. Is there, then, no merit, nothing commendable, in accepting
ruin or in volunteering to die temporarily, or to perish everlastingly, in order to save a
fellow-creature from ruin, or death, or perdition? Does not such conduct, considered independently
and without reference either to its utility or its hurtfulness, command our instantaneous and
enthusiastic admiration? But how, being so admirable, can it be immoral? how other than virtuous?
What else is it, indeed, but the very perfection of that purest virtue which, content to be
its own reward, deliberately cuts itself off from all other recompense? Without changing the
immemorial meaning of the most familiar words, there is no avoiding the obvious answers to
these questions. If virtue and morality, right and wrong, are to continue to mean anything
like that which, except by Utilitarians, has always been considered to be their only meaning,
it is not simply not wrong, it is not simply right, it is among the highest achievements of
virtue and morality to sacrifice your own in order to secure another's happiness, and the disinterestedness,
and therefore the virtue, is surely the greater, rather than less, if you sacrifice more happiness
of your own than you secure to another. So much follows necessarily from what has been said,
and something more besides. It follows further that Utilitarianism is not less in error in
declaring that actions calculated to diminish the total sum of happiness must necessarily be
wrong, cannot possibly be allowable, still less meritorious, than it had previously been shown
to be in declaring that actions calculated to augment the sum total of happiness must necessarily
be meritorious.

There is but one way in which Utilitarianism can even temporarily rebut the charge of fallacy,
of which otherwise it must here stand convicted, and that is by renouncing all claim to be
a new system of ethics, and not pretending to be more than a new system of nomenclature. And
even so, it could not help contradicting, and thereby refuting itself. That nothing is right
but what is of preponderating utility; that whatever is of preponderating utility is right;
these are propositions perfectly intelligible, indeed, but which will be found to be tenable
only on condition that the very same things may be both right and wrong. The confusion, thrice
confounded, inseparable from the substitution of such novel definitions for those which had
previously been universally in vogue, is but the smaller of two evils which must thence arise.
It would be bad enough that the word 'right' could not be used without raising doubt whether
what people had previously understood by the 'just' or the 'generous,' or only the 'expedient'
were meant; but a still worse consequence would be that, even if no doubt of the sort were
entertained, and if all men were agreed to take the word in none but its utilitarian sense,
the landmarks of right and wrong would thereby be well nigh obliterated. Due credit has already
been given to Utilitarianism for its exemplary zeal in inculcating the practice of virtue,
but its merit in that respect is more than neutralised by its equally zealous inculcation of
principles, according to which it is impossible to decide beforehand whether any particular
practice will be virtuous or not.

This is my second charge against Utilitarianism. I maintain it to be a doctrine in most of
its essentials erroneous; but I maintain, further, that, even if it were correct, instead of
furnishing us with an infallible criterion of right and wrong, it would deprive us of the means
of clearly distinguishing between right and wrong at all times at which the power of so distinguishing
is of practical value. Bluntly enough, I have pronounced it to be false. With equal bluntness,
I now add that, even if it were true, it would, all the same, be practically mischievous, and
directly opposed to the very utility from which it takes its name. The argument in support
of this charge shall now be stated.

According to utilitarian ethics, the morality of actions depends wholly and solely on their
consequences. On this point the language of authority is distinct, emphatic, unanimous, and
self-contradictory. Most others will be disposed to doubt its having been a sufficient reason
for commuting the sentence of death passed upon the murderer of Dhuleep Sing's gamekeeper,
that, owing to physical malformation, hanging might perhaps have given him more than ordinary
pain in the neck, or perhaps have prolonged the pleasure which, according to the select few
qualified to speak from experience, is attendant on that mode of strangulation. Neither, without
sacrificing his judgment to his feelings, could one of these doubters, if Rutherford had been
sentenced to be drowned instead of hanged, have stretched out a hand to save the miscreant
from the watery grave he so richly deserved. That there are no actions which by reason of their
beneficial consequences are always and invariably moral, might be too much to affirm; but I
have no hesitation in saying that there are thousands, the morality or immorality of which--their
results remaining the same--depends absolutely on their motives. Thus, if two doctors--of whom,
for distinction's sake, we will call one Smethurst and the other Smith--in attendance on patients
afflicted with precisely the same disease, were by the administration of overdoses of strychnine
each to kill his man, the only difference between them being that whereas one intended and
expected to kill, the other hoped to cure--would the act of killing be equally immoral in both
cases? Would it not in the one case be murder, in the other mere error of judgment; and would
both be equally crimes, or would the latter be in any degree criminal? And if it had been Smethurst
instead of Smith who committed the error of judgment--if the overdoses by which he had meant
to kill had happened to cure--would his error of judgment have thereby been rendered moral,
notwithstanding that his motive was murder?

The same great teacher, who so strenuously insists that the motive has nothing to do with the
morality of an action, does indeed go on to say that it has 'much to do with the worth of the
agent.' Here, however, I confess myself unable to follow him. That an act may possess morality
independent of the agent, may be intelligible on the assumption that morality means simply
utility, and nothing more; but how, even then, worth can be evinced by the performance of an
immoral action, is beyond my comprehension, except upon the further assumption that there may
be worth in immorality.

Waiving, however, these and all other objections, let us for the moment, and for the sake of
argument, assume that morality and utility are really one and the same thing, that the right
or wrong of an act depends entirely on its results, and then let us observe how utterly without
rudder or compass to assist him in steering correctly will be the best-intentioned navigator
of the ocean of life.

We can seldom, if ever, be quite sure what will be the result of our conduct. Meaning to cure,
we may only too probably kill; meaning to kill, we may not impossibly cure. Until a thing is
done, we cannot determine as to its utility; nor, consequently, in an utilitarian sense, as
to the morality of doing it. We must trust implicitly to our skill in calculating events, and
if that skill happen to fail us, our conduct may become culpable. With the most earnest desire
to act righteously, we can only guess beforehand whether what we propose doing will turn out
to be righteous, and can never be sure, therefore, that we are not going to do something wicked.

Here I shall, of course, and very properly, be reminded that what Utilitarianism requires to
be taken into account, are not merely the probable consequences of some proposed act, but the
usual consequences of all acts of the same description; so that its disciples, instead of being
left to their conjectures about the future, may be said to have all past experience to refer
to. And undeniably Utilitarianism does require this; thereby, however, contradicting itself
as, I just now hinted, it would presently be found doing. It does indeed declare those actions
only to be moral which in the long run are conducive to, or at least not opposed to, the general
happiness; but it also says that the morality of each particular action depends on its own
particular consequences. So that the docile disciple who should do something which, though
useful in the long run, happened to be otherwise in his particular case--who, for instance,
should save the life of a fellow-creature of whom it would have been well for the world to
be rid, would, to his disgust and bewilderment, find that while, with no desire but that of
acting rightly, he had been obeying one utilitarian law, he had nevertheless been infringing
another law of the same code, and thereby acting wrongly.

Overlooking, however, this incongruity of two equally authoritative rules, let us proceed to
consider what dangerous latitude of interpretation is allowed to the followers of either of
them. Those who believe that the merit or demerit of each separate action depends on that action's
separate consequences, need seldom be at a loss for a pretext for committing the most heinous
of crimes. A husband who, hating his wife, had his hate returned, and loving another woman,
had his love returned, might plausibly reason thus within himself: The prescribed objects of
life are the multiplication of happiness and the diminution of misery; here are three of us,
all doomed to be miserable as long as we all three live; but the wretchedness of two of us
might be at once converted into happiness, if the third were put out of the way. By some such
logical process, Queen Mary and Bothwell may have satisfied themselves of the propriety of
blowing up Darnley: Mr. and Mrs. Manning, as they sate at meat with their destined victim over
his ready-made grave, may have argued themselves into self-approval of the crowning rite with
which their hospitalities were to terminate: any scampish apprentice with designs upon his
master's till, any burglar plotting an entry into a goldsmith's shop, may become convinced
of his rectitude of purpose, and even take credit for public-spirited zeal, in seeking to appropriate
to his own use part of another's wealth, which he may fairly suppose would be productive of
more enjoyment if divided between two or more than if left in the hands of one, and that one
already perhaps the possessor of more than he knows what to do with.

Precisely the same sophistry will not indeed suffice for those disciples who, adopting the
alternative law of the utilitarian code, feel bound to attend to the consequences not of individual
actions, but of classes of actions. The cleverest self-deceiver can scarcely bring himself
to believe that, because it might suit his personal convenience to kill or steal, killing and
stealing would not be prejudicial to society if generally practised. Still, it is only necessary
to have, or to fancy one has, public instead of private objects in view, in order to be able
to look with approbation, from an utilitarian point of view, on any amount of homicide or robbery.

Nor are principles like these appealed to only by those who have recourse to them for the vindication
of their own procedure. At those petits-soupers--bachelors' dinners is their modern English
name, noctes coenæque deûm their ancient classical--for which some of our London clubs are
deservedly celebrated, and with which the Garrick in especial is, in my mind, gratefully associated--at
those choice gatherings of congenial spirits, conversation, changing from gay to grave, turns
not unfrequently, among other lofty topics, on that which we are here discussing. Then, even
at such divine symposium, one at least of the guests is pretty sure to take the part of devil's
advocate, and to exercise his forensic skill in showing how easily interchangeable are the
names of virtue and iniquity, crime and well-doing. September massacres then find, not their
apologist, but their eulogist. Noyades of Carrier, fusilades of Collot d'Herbois, are cited
as examples very suitable for imitation in adequate emergencies. Prussia's seizure, on behalf
of Germany, of Schleswig and Holstein, on pretence of their being not Danish, but German, and
her subsequent retention of them for herself on the plea of their having always been not German,
but Danish, are applauded as acts perfectly consistent with each other and with the eternal
fitness of things. And all this is urged in the best possible faith. Of the recited enormities,
were not some, steps to the regeneration of France--others, to the unifaction of Germany? And
what are myriads of lives in comparison with a regenerate--what violation of the most solemn
engagements in comparison with a united, people? Did not the millions of Frenchmen who survived
the Reign of Terror gain more than was lost by the thousands who were guillotined at Paris,
or drowned at Nantes, or shot down at Lyons? Is not Germany likely to turn Kiel to far better
account than Denmark ever did or could have done? and will not German ascendency be abundant
compensation for Danish decadence? How culpably misplaced, then, were conscientious scruples
that would have impeded the march of events in such directions! Ends need but to be great enough
to justify any means. Let but the good promise to exceed the evil, and there is no evil which
ought not to be done in order that good may come of it. Thus slightly qualified, the Satanic
adage, 'Evil, be thou my good,' is, without more ado, accepted as the utilitarian watchword.

And what though it be only the most thorough-paced Utilitarians who go these extreme lengths?
These lengths, extreme as they are, are legitimate deductions from tenets held in common by
the most moderate and cautious as well as by the most reckless of the sect. Crime in the abstract
is condemned not less vehemently by the latter than by the former; but by both equally it is
condemned on account, not of its inherent vileness, but solely of its observed results. If
the results were different, the agency to which they are due would be fitted with a different
epithet. If a world could be conceived to be so organised, or, if this world of ours could
be conceived to be so changed as that the practice of killing, stealing, or telling lies would
be conducive to the general good, the practice in question would obtain a new name in the Utilitarian
vocabulary. Crime would become beneficence; and to kill, to steal, or to tell lies would be
not wrong, but right. These are propositions which, without abjuring the prime articles of
his creed, the most timid Utilitarian has no alternative but to endorse; but how, then, can
he shut his eyes to their obvious application? How presume to rebuke those earnest philanthropists,
who, to judge from their habitual language, are firmly of opinion that annihilation of one
half of mankind would be a small price to pay for conversion of the other moiety into citizens
of a world-wide Red Republic; or those admirers of Prince Bismarck, who, holding national aggrandisement
to be the national summum bonum, deem the most solemn treaties that might impede it to be obstacles
which it is obligatory on a patriot to set aside? Will not the effects of any given cause vary
with the changes in the circumstances in which the cause acts? May it not easily happen that
the direct effect of some private crime shall be to augment, instead of to diminish the total
happiness of all the persons affected by it? And is it not, then, conceivable that a public
crime, provided it be of sufficient magnitude, may more than counterpoise, by the good it is
calculated to do, all the harm that all crimes of the same description either have done or
are likely to do hereafter? It is idle to reply that such a comparison between public good
and evil must needs be mistaken: that the harm, for instance, which violation of treaties does
to mankind by sapping the foundations of international confidence, rendering impossible international
co-operation, and bringing the very name of international morality into contempt, is infinitely
beyond any good it can do in the shape of national aggrandisement. Whether this be so or not
is matter of opinion, on which every one may fairly insist on forming his own, and if that
opinion be in the negative, a utilitarian agent, in Prince Bismarck's circumstances, would
be bound in duty to imitate Prince Bismarck's high-handed policy. In all circumstances of international
import, in all cases bearing upon the general interests of society, a Utilitarian, after deciding
according to his lights which of the various courses open to him would best promote the general
welfare, either immediately by its direct effects, or subsequently and indirectly by the example
it would set, would be bound in duty to adopt that course. That course, however wrong it might
have appeared in all previous cases, would now become right, as being apparently the one most
conducive to the future welfare of mankind. Utilitarianism's standard of morality thus turns
out to be, not any fixed and definite notion of expediency, but one liable to change with every
change in individual judgment. Its boasted criterion of the right or wrong of an action is
the best conjecture which the agent, with or without extrinsic advice, is able to form of the
future consequences of the action. Utilitarian law, in short, resolves itself into this--that
every man shall be a law unto himself. Of course no Utilitarians will acknowledge this to be
their law, not even those who shape their conduct in exact conformity to it. Nevertheless,
that such is the law follows necessarily from their own premises. For does not Utilitarianism
sometimes--a little heedlessly, perhaps, but not the less positively--declare that the morality
of an action depends not at all upon its motives, but exclusively upon its consequences? Does
it not, when most guarded in its language, affirm the morality of actions to depend upon their
tendencies, that is to say, on their consequences at large, and in the long run? But there
can never be perfect certainty as to consequences. With regard to the future, plausible conjecture
is the utmost possible; and by differing judgments different conjectures will needs be made.
So that the value of the rule of conduct furnished by Utilitarianism to any individual depends
upon the latter's ability, supplemented by that of any counsellors whom he may consult, to
forecast events. He cannot proceed correctly, except in so far as he or they have the gift
of prophecy. However dull his vision may be, he must content himself with his own blind guidance,
unless he prefer as guide some one who, for aught he can tell, may be as blind as himself.
And it is always for himself to judge whether he will follow advice: so that in effect every
Utilitarian is his own moral law-giver; and, certainly, a worse assignment of legislative functions
cannot be imagined.

But the mischievousness of Utilitarianism does not stop here. We have seen how one of its principles
destroys the landmarks between right and wrong, between virtue and vice, causing each to take
continually the place of its opposite. We have now to see how another of its principles obliterates
all distinctions between different kinds of virtue, confounding them in one indiscriminate
mass, and imparting to them a sort of general oneness not more lucid than that which, according
to Mr. Curdle, is the essence of the dramatic unities.

The object which it insists upon as conduct's end and aim is the general good--the greatest
possible aggregate of good or happiness for all. As the Scriptures enjoin us, whether we eat
or drink, or whatsoever we do, to do all to the glory of God, so Utilitarianism exhorts us
to do all for the welfare of mankind. Now, far be it from me to caricature this soul-inspiring
rule by forcing it, under a strained construction, to an unnatural extreme. Fairly examined,
it will be seen to make no extravagant demands on our self-denial. As Christianity, even while
bidding us to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, promises that all other
things shall be added unto us, so Utilitarianism, even while insisting on our seeking first
to please others, permits, nay, directs, us to take as much pleasure for ourselves as we can
lay hold of without depriving others, since the aggregate of happiness which it is incumbent
upon us to augment to the best of our ability would otherwise be less. Nay, for the same reason,
it disapproves of our foregoing any pleasure of our own, the full equivalent of which is not
transferred to others. The happiness which it requires us to attend to is that of a society
of which each of us is a component member, and no member of which can deny himself any pleasure
within his reach, and beyond the reach of others, without diminishing the total of happiness
which the whole society might enjoy. 'As between his own happiness and that of others,' says
Mr. Mill, 'Utilitarianism requires an agent to be as strictly impartial as a disinterested
and benevolent spectator.' Thus qualified, the prescribed subordination of one's own to the
general good is no such extravagantly self-denying ordinance. If for anything, it might rather
be reproached for its cold, calculating equity. With reference quite as much to individual
as to communal happiness it is an excellent rule of conduct, against which not a word could
be said, provided only it were left to be adopted voluntarily, and were not authoritatively
imposed.

Unfortunately, however, Utilitarianism allows no option in the matter. Unless we do our very
utmost to promote the general weal, at whatever sacrifice to ourselves, it charges us with
sin of omission. In the words of one of the ablest among able Editors, 'justice is the social
idea in its highest, widest, and most binding expression.... It signifies the moral principle
which obliges each so to shape his conduct and relations, his claims and his achievements,
that they harmonise with the highest good of all.'[4] To which doctrine of Mr. Morley's, if
other Utilitarians do not subscribe, it can only be because they are less resolutely logical.
Mr. Mill, indeed, though dissenting in appearance on this point from Mr. Morley, agrees with
him in substance. Even when on one occasion, distinguishing between duty and virtue, he says
that there are innumerable acts and forbearances of human beings which, though either causes
or hindrances of good to their fellow-creatures, lie beyond the domain of duty, and within
that of virtue or merit, he goes on to assign as the sole reason for placing them in the domain
of the latter that, in respect to them, it is, on the whole, for the general interest that
people should be left free, thereby plainly intimating that society would be equitably entitled
to insist on them if it thought proper. But conduct that can be equitably insisted on is clearly,
in the strictest sense, duty; and it would be preposterous to claim merit for doing that which
it would be a breach of duty to leave undone. Duties do not cease to be duties because he on
whom they are incumbent is not compelled under penalty to perform them, any more than debts
cease to be debts because creditors do not choose to ask for payment. All consistent utilitarian
teaching points inflexibly towards Mr. Morley's conclusion, according to which justice and
social virtue are absolutely identical, and according to which, also, whoever does not shape
his 'conduct, &c., in harmony with the highest good of all,' does less than is due from him,
while it is impossible for him to do more. For whatever he propose to do must either be or
not be in the prescribed harmony. If it be, he is bound to do it. If not, he is bound not to
do it. The very utmost he can do is no more than is incumbent upon him. Less than his very
utmost is less than is incumbent. No action of his, therefore, can possess any merit; for mere
fulfilment of obligations is reckoned not of grace, but of debt. Having done everything, he
is still but an unprofitable servant; he has but done that which was his duty to do. Where,
then, is the boast of virtue? It is excluded. By what law? By that of Utilitarianism, set forth
in its full amplitude. Honesty and generosity, faith, truth, charity, patient endurance, and
chivalrous self-devotion, all are mingled together under the name of justice, and justice itself
only remains just as long as it remains identical with the largest expediency.

At this rate we cannot possibly have any virtue to plume ourselves upon. The best we can do
being no more than our duly, the only reward we can claim is exemption from the punishment
we should have deserved if we had not done it. Whether it be that we have abstained from killing
or robbing our fellow-citizens for our own advantage, or have impoverished or half-killed ourselves
in the service of the State, our meed is the same. Loris non ureris. Non pasces in cruce corvos,
is what we are told. We may congratulate ourselves on having escaped the cat-o'-nine-tails
and the gallows. Well, we have, most of us, so much self-sufficiency, that to deprive us of
all ground for it might be a fault on the right side. But now comes a second and more awkward
reflection. If you will not of your own accord do your duty, those to whom performance of the
duty is owing have a right to use means to make you--foul means if fair means will not avail.
If, then, you hesitate to do your utmost for the interests of society, society is warranted
in taking measures to accelerate your movement. If you are not, or what is practically the
same thing, if a numerical majority of your fellow-citizens think you are not, making the most
beneficial use of your property; if it be generally considered that it would be for the greater
good of the greater number to divide your park and garden into peasant properties and cottage
allotments, to double the wages of the workmen in your employment, or to subject you and the
likes of you to a graduated income tax for the purpose of setting up national workshops to
compete with you in your own trade; and, if you do not readily enter into the same views, then
the said numerical majority are not simply warranted in taking the law into their own hands
and doing, in spite of you, what they think ought to be done with your property, but would
be culpably remiss if they neglected so to act.

Now it is needless to dwell on the extent to which that large numerical majority of our fellow-citizens
which consists of the working classes is imbued with this notion, nor, except to those who
are similarly imbued, can it be necessary to insist that there is no notion of which it is
more indispensable to disabuse the working-class mind. This, accordingly, I strove to do throughout
a recent work of mine, 'On Labour,' particularly in the chapter which treats of the claims
and rights thereof. I there earnestly pleaded that there may be, and are, private rights independent
of utility which no public needs can cancel; that all which any man, or set of men, is entitled
to exact from another is payment or fulfilment of what is due to him or them from that other;
that unless the poverty of the many has been caused by the few, the many are not warranted
in extorting relief of their wants from the few; that the mere circumstance of their being
without food or work does not entitle the poor to be fed or employed by the rich, for that
there is likewise a justice independent of and superior to utility, consisting simply of respect
for rights, while injustice consists simply of violation of rights.

In so arguing, I ran directly counter to Utilitarianism, provoking thereby a retaliatory assault
from Utilitarianism's tutelary champion, who, as readers of the 'Fortnightly Review'[5] are
aware, bore down upon me with an energy no whit the less effective for being tempered with
all knightly courtesy. Yet, not to say it vaingloriously, I am not conscious of having been
shaken in the saddle, and I now return to the encounter with modest assurance, firmly believing
mine to be the better cause, and recollecting too that in a contest with Mr. Mill, let the
issue be what it may, I may at least comfort myself with the reflection

  Minus turpe vinci quam contendisse decorum.

I must at the outset be permitted to remark that one or two of Mr. Mill's objections to my
statements are based upon misconception of their meaning. I never questioned, but, on the contrary,
have always in the distinctest terms admitted that society is perfectly at liberty to put an
end to the institution of property in land. No extremest Socialist ever went beyond me in proclaiming
that the 'earth was bestowed by the Creator, not on any privileged class or classes, but on
all mankind and on all successive generations of men, so that no one generation can have more
than a life interest in the soil, or be entitled to alienate the birthright of succeeding generations.'[6]
No one more fully recognises that property in land exists only on sufferance and by concession,
and that society, which made the concession, may at any moment take it back on giving full
compensation to the concessioners.

Again, when asserting the inviolability of moveable, as distinguished from landed, property,
I was careful to limit the assertion to property honestly acquired. I never supposed it possible
to acquire by prescription 'a fee simple in an injustice.' Only, if in any particular instance
it be suspected that property has been acquired by force, fraud, or robbery, I contend that
the onus probandi lies on him who raises the question. It is for him to show, if he can, that
a commercial fortune has, as Mr. Mill suggests, been built up by 'jobbing contracts, profligate
loans, or other reprehensible practices.' But if this cannot be shown, the validity of the
actual possessor's title must not be impugned. Property must be treated as of innocent acquisition
and derivation until proved to be of guilty. And that not merely because there could otherwise
be no rights of property at all, since it must always be impossible for any owner to demonstrate
that neither he nor any one of those from whom he derives ever either overreached in a bargain
or failed in a contract; but also, and much more, because whether a person be or be not the
rightful owner of the wealth in his possession, no one can possibly be entitled to despoil
him unless the wealth can be shown to have been ill-gotten. That right must be held to be complete
with which no one can show a right to interfere.

The gravest, however, of Mr. Mill's criticisms is that mine is 'a doctrine à priori, claiming
to command assent by its own light, and to be evident by simple intuition.' This is an imputation
to which I am so unaware of having laid myself open that I can account for its having been
made only on the supposition that Mr. Mill, in common with most other Utilitarians, imagines
that their only opponents are Intuitionists, and that it is only necessary to set aside the
tenets of these in order to get their own established instead. If this were really the case,
utilitarian advocacy would be a comparatively easy task. Intuitionism, whether capable or not
of being disproved, is by its nature unsusceptible of decisive proof. If I, in support of the
proposition that there is in the human mind an intuitive sense of any sort, were to assert
that I had such a sense while you denied that you had, it would be impossible for me to prove
you to be mistaken, while, unless you were mistaken as to your individual experience, I should
clearly be mistaken as to the generalisation which I had based upon mine. But I never said
a word about an intuitive sense of right and wrong. How could I, seeing, as no one who chooses
to look can fail to see, that the instincts of untutored children prompt them to disregard
all rights but their own, to spit cockchafers, rob birds' nests, and confiscate younger children's
cakes and apples? All I say is that there may be and are rights independent of and even opposed
to utility, and these, for reasons which shall immediately be stated, I call natural rights;
but I do not say that they are intuitively perceived. As for sense of justice or of duty, or
moral sense or faculty, what I understand by that is not recognition of certain rights or duties
as such, but recognition of the obligation to respect whatever rights and to fulfil whatever
duties are recognised, according to which definition it is mere tautology to add that the sense
or faculty in question originates simultaneously with the recognition of any rights or duties.
For inasmuch as rights invariably imply corresponding obligations--inasmuch as if a thing be
rightfully claimed, that same thing must needs be due or owing, it is of course impossible
to perceive that a thing is owing without perceiving at the same moment that it ought to be
paid. On this account, and with this explanation, I should not scruple to speak of the moral
sense as intuitive; but if for that reason I am to be called an Intuitionist, so equally must
Mr. Mill, for he has said precisely the same thing.

By my avowal of a belief in 'Natural Rights,' I feel that I must have incurred in philosophic
quarters a sort of civil contempt, which I am very desirous of removing, and which will, I
trust, be somewhat diminished on my proceeding to explain how few and elementary are the rights
that I propose for naturalisation. They are but two in number, and they are these:--(1) Absolute
right, except in so far as the same may have been forfeited by misconduct or modified by consent,
to deal in any way one pleases, not noxious to other people, with one's own self or person;
(2) right equally absolute to dispose similarly of the produce either of one's own honest industry,
or of that of others whose rights in connection with it have been honestly acquired by oneself.
I call these 'rights,' because there cannot possibly anywhere exist either the right to prevent
their being exercised, or any rights with which they can clash, and because, therefore, by
their freest exercise, no one can possibly be wronged, while to interfere with their exercise
would be to wrong their possessor. And I call them 'natural,' because they are not artificially
created, and have no need of external ratification. Whoever thinks proper to deny this--whoever,
as all Utilitarians do, contends that society is entitled to interfere with the rights which
I have called natural, is bound to attempt to show how society became so entitled; when for
the claim he puts forward on society's behalf he will find it impossible to produce any plausible
pretext, without crediting society with possession of a right belonging to that same 'natural'
class, the existence of which he denies. For, as there can be no rights without corresponding
obligations or duties, if it be really the right of society to deal at its discretion with
the persons or effects of individuals, it must be incumbent on individuals to permit themselves
and whatever is theirs to be so dealt with. Have, then, individuals incurred any such obligation?
No obligation, be it remembered, can arise, except through some antecedent act of one or other
or both of the parties concerned. Either a pledge of some sort must have been given or a benefit
of some sort must have been received. Now undoubtedly there are no limits to the extent to
which society and its individual members might have reciprocally pledged themselves. It might
have been stipulated by their articles of association that society at large should do its utmost
for the welfare of each of its members, and that each of its members should do his utmost for
the welfare of society at large. But it is certain, either that no such compact ever was made,
or that, if made, it has always been systematically set at nought. Society has never made much
pretence of troubling itself about the welfare of individuals, except in certain specified
particulars; so that, even if individuals had, on condition of being treated with reciprocal
solicitude, accepted the obligation of attending to the welfare of society in other than the
same particulars, that conditional obligation would from the commencement have been null and
void. The one thing which society invariably pledges itself to do is to protect person and
property, and by implication to enforce performance of contracts; and the two things which
individual associates in turn pledge themselves to do are to abstain from molesting each other's
persons and property, and to assist society in protecting both. In so abstaining and so assisting
consist all those 'many acts and the still greater number of forbearances, the perpetual practice
of which by all is,' as Mr. Mill says, 'universally deemed to be so necessary to the general
well-being, that people must be held to it compulsorily, either by law or by social pressure.'[7]
Under one or other of these two heads may be ranged everything that individuals owe to society
in return for the mere protection which they receive from it.

True, there is an universal understanding that individuals shall be subject to any laws, whether
wise or foolish, provided only they be of equal and impartial operation, which may be enacted
by a numerical majority of the community to which the individuals belong; and in this manner
individuals may become bound by any number of miscellaneous pledges, society acquiring simultaneously
the right to hold individuals to the performance of those pledges. Thus, if by the vote of
an unimpeachably representative House of Commons it were declared to be for the general good,
and agreed to accordingly, that every one should be vaccinated or circumcised, it would be
incumbent on every one to submit quietly to vaccination or circumcision, however deleterious
the operation might be deemed by some. Or if, improving upon a hypothetical suggestion of Mr.
Mill, a parliament elected by constituencies in which the labouring-class element greatly predominated,
should prospectively forbid the accumulation by any individual of property beyond a specified
amount, then, though the almost certain consequence would be that the prescribed limit of accumulation
would not be exceeded, still if it were exceeded, the accumulator could not justly complain
when the surplus was forfeited according to law. Yet even thus the obligations or duties created
will correspond exactly with the pledges given; none will be incurred except such as have been
imposed by special legislation--nor even those, unless the legislation have been impartial.
A law requiring people to pay poor's-rates would not suffice as a pretext for requiring them
to pay education rates likewise. Neither if, instead of passing the prospective law just now
supposed, a governing majority which had previously always permitted the indefinite accumulation
of wealth, were retrospectively to decree the forfeiture of all past accumulations beyond a
defined amount, would individuals be morally bound to submit to such a decree if they could
contrive to evade it, any more than sexquipedalians would be bound to lay their heads on the
block in obedience to a law directing everybody six feet high to be decapitated. All such partial
legislation would be tyrannical, and circumstances must be very peculiar indeed to make submission
to tyranny a duty. But of all conceivable legislation, none could possibly be more partial,
or therefore more tyrannical, than such as should give to society a general power of dealing
at its pleasure with its associates, and of arbitrarily subjecting separate classes or individuals
to exceptional treatment. Even, therefore, if a law to such monstrous effect were enacted,
it could have no morally binding force. It would be no one's duty to acquiesce in it.

I will not here stop to dispute, though I am not sure that I could without some slight reservation
admit, that the receipt of unasked-for benefits places the recipient under precisely the same
obligation to benefit his benefactor, as if the good received by him had been conferred on
express condition of his availing himself of the first opportunity to render equal good. I
will not stop to dispute, for instance, that a person saved from drowning at the risk of his
own rescuer's life, would be bound, on occasion arising, to risk his own life in order to save
his former rescuer's. For my immediate purpose, it may suffice to remark that society has never
been in the habit of showing such parental solicitude for its component members as would warrant
its claiming filial devotion from them. In the matter of philanthropy its practice has never
been in advance of its very moderate professions. It has invariably contented itself with rendering
certain specific services, never failing to exact in return fully equivalent services of each
species.

In candour, however, there must be admitted to be innumerable blessings not yet adverted to,
including indeed most of those by the possession of which man is distinguished from brutes,
for which he is in so far indebted to society that, but for the instrumentality of society,
they would never have been his. Unless individuals had formed themselves into communities,
civilization could have made no sensible progress: there could have been no considerable advances,
material, intellectual, moral, or æsthetic. Not only should we have been destitute of all the
comforts and luxuries that now surround us, we should have lacked also whatever cerebral development
we have attained, together with all its concomitants and consequences; whatever of intelligence,
or moral perceptiveness, or artistic taste we have to boast of. Still, though none of these
faculties could have made much approach to maturity except under the shelter of society, they
are not gifts of society. Without the help of a plough, land cannot be ploughed; but we do
not therefore credit the ploughmaker with the achievements of the ploughman. Neither is society
to take to itself praise because its members have made good use of the protection which, in
consideration of stipulated services on their part, it has afforded them. Besides, whatever
we inherit from society, we inherit from a society of members no longer in being. Let the dead
come to life again, and it may then become us to examine their claims upon our gratitude, but
we need not meanwhile confound past and present generations, nor our forefathers with our contemporaries.
To the mass of these latter, at any rate, we are none of us indebted for our brains or our
aptitudes of thought and feeling, and the circumstance of our being joint sharers with them
in patrimony bequeathed by a common ancestry, affords no very obvious reason why our share
of the inheritance, together with whatever else we possess, should be at their absolute disposal.

Thus it appears that in no one of the ways in which alone can originate the obligations which
must always precede or accompany artificially-created rights, has that particular obligation
arisen without which it is impossible for society to obtain artificially the right of preventing
individuals from doing as they will with their own. No sufficient pledge has been given by
one side, no sufficient benefit conferred by the other. Individuals never agreed to place their
all at the disposal of society; society never rendered to individuals any services entitling
it to claim such boundless gratitude. One service which it invariably undertakes is that of
protecting person and property. This is its chief and primary duty, the fulfilment of which
is always the first object of its institution, often the only one it acknowledges. But clearly
it cannot by performance of a duty acquire the right of doing the exact reverse of that duty.
It cannot by protecting acquire the right of molesting. It cannot by preventing person and
property from being meddled with, acquire in its corporate capacity the right of itself meddling.
Since then this right of meddling, this right of disposing of what is exclusively some individual's
own, otherwise than the owner wishes, has not been acquired by society artificially, it must,
if it do actually belong to society, have been come by naturally; and this accordingly is what
Utilitarians really, though perhaps unconsciously, assume, treating moreover this gratuitous
assumption of theirs as a self-evident truth.

For, as Utilitarians themselves cannot fail on reflection to perceive, they offer no shadow
of argument in support of that 'greatest happiness principle' on which their whole system rests.
Commencing with the undeniable postulate that happiness is the sole object of existence, and
perceiving that individual happiness alone would be a very misleading object, they proceed
to take quietly for granted that the only happiness at which life ought to aim is social happiness.
Now, undoubtedly social happiness is of more importance than individual happiness--the happiness
of many than that of one or a few; neither can there be any worthier object of pursuit than
the greatest happiness of the greatest number. All this is seen without being said, but what
is by no means so easily seen is how it can be incumbent on any one to pursue that object to
his own detriment--how it can be imperative on one or on a few to sacrifice his or their happiness
in order to promote that of the many. Plainly such self-devotion cannot be for their personal
advantage, and Utilitarianism does not even attempt to show how it can have become their duty.
Meritorious, magnanimous, heroic in the highest degree it would certainly be, but does not
that very circumstance prove conclusively that it cannot be due, inasmuch as there is nothing
meritorious in merely doing one's duty and paying one's debts? But of that which is not due,
how can payment be rightfully insisted upon? What the few are under no obligation to yield,
how can the many be entitled to extort, or how can the worthiness of the latter's object excuse
their doing that which they have no right to do? Is any object, however worthy, to be pursued
regardless of all collateral considerations? To these objections Utilitarians have no answer
to make. All they can do is tacitly to take for granted the disputed duty and right. That the
less ought to give way to the greater, and the few to the many, and that the many may rightfully
therefore, if need be, use force to compel the less or the few to give way--these are treated
by them as incontestable propositions, even as 'doctrines à priori, claiming assent by their
own light, evident by simple intuition.' And although thus from their own inner consciousness
evolving the very first principles of their own philosophy, the premises of their deduction
that social happiness is the proper aim in life, and that conduciveness to such happiness is
the test of morality--'Intuitionists,' strange to say, is the distinctive appellation which
they propose to affix to all those who hesitate to accept as ethical foundation stones the
results of their intuitional evolution.

Scarcely by a taunt so readily rebuttable will anti-Utilitarians be excited to speedier apprehension
of the nature of the lien which corporate self-interest is presumed to have upon individual
self-devotion. Not the less tenaciously may they cling to their belief in the right of every
one to do as he will with whatever has come by fair means into his exclusive and complete possession.
Neither, I venture to think, need less store be set by that right in consequence of an objection
very adroitly taken to it by Mr. Mill, which, on account both of its inherent ingenuity and
of its having been addressed more immediately to myself, it would be inexcusable in me to leave
unexamined. In Mr. Mill's opinion, the right in question, even if valid, would be valueless,
because it would be neutralised by precisely similar rights belonging to society. If, he argues,
individuals are at liberty to do as they will with their own, so likewise must society be.
But 'existing social arrangements and law itself exist in virtue not only of the forbearance,
but of the active support of the labouring classes' who in every community constitute a numerical
majority. This working-class majority might then if they pleased withdraw their support from
existing arrangements, thereby depriving person and property of social protection; and by merely
threatening such withdrawal they could compel individuals to acquiesce in their most extravagant
demands. 'They might bind the rich to take the whole burden of taxation upon themselves. They
might bind them to give employment, at liberal wages, to a number of labourers in a direct
ratio to the amount of their incomes. They might enforce on them a total abolition of inheritance
and bequest.' Mr. Mill maintains that these things, although exceedingly foolish, might according
to my principles, with perfect equity be done; nay, if I understand him correctly, that according
neither to mine nor to any one else's principles can any adequate reason be assigned why they
should not be done, except that their practical results would be baneful instead of beneficial.
And taking this view, he is fully warranted in asking what it can matter that according to
my theory 'an employer does no wrong in making the use he does of his capital, if the same
theory would justify the employed in compelling him by law to make a different use--if the
labourers would in no way infringe the definition of justice by taking the matter into their
own hands and establishing by law any modification of the rights of property which in their
opinion would increase the remuneration of their labour.'[8]

My reply to this and to the whole argument is the following. So long as society continues to
exist, society cannot divest itself of the primary function for the discharge of which it was
originally constituted. Society, having come together in the first instance, tacitly pledged
to extend protection to each individual associate, cannot, without breach of contract, withdraw
that protection. It may, indeed, make any impartial laws it pleases, and attach any penalty
it pleases to violation of any impartial law, but it cannot in equity, whatever it may in practice,
place any of its members outside the law; neither, most certainly, even if its competence did
extend thus far, could it go the farther length of conferring on any one the right of doing
wrong to an outlaw. It may even be doubted whether, if an outlaw were to injure any one still
belonging to the society, any but the injured person himself would be warranted in retaliating.
The sole reason that I can perceive why even he would is, that his rights had been infringed,
and that reparation was due to him for any damage sustained by him in consequence, while, on
the other hand, the aggressor had forfeited those rights of his which might otherwise have
forbidden the injured person from taking the reparation due. But society had had none of its
rights infringed. By society no injury had been sustained. To society, therefore, no reparation
was due; and society, it seems to me, would have no right to insist on exacting reparation
not due to itself from one whom it had forcibly extruded from its communion, and who, therefore,
was no longer amenable to its jurisdiction. Society might, indeed, dissolve itself, proclaiming
that 'every man for himself, and God for all,' should thenceforward be the rule. But although
it might thus leave individual rights without other defence than that of the owner, it could
not annihilate individual rights. It might cancel the right to mutual protection, but it could
not, in place of that, create a right of mutual molestation. One's own person and property
would still be as much one's own as before, and whoever outraged either would not be the less
a wrong doer because society permitted his wrong doing to remain unpunished. In all ethical
investigations it is impossible to guard too watchfully against the smallest approach to confusion
of might with right.

Instead of being valueless, the particular rights of which Mr. Mill speaks so disparagingly,
appear to me to possess a value which can scarcely be exaggerated. They are, as may be readily
perceived, identical with the two which I have termed 'natural,' and of which I began by saying
that they are exceedingly elementary, but of which I have now to add that they are also all-comprehensive,
for that there are no genuine rights whatever, however numerous or complex, which neither are
included within, nor branch out from, them. This will be manifest on comparison of them with
the items enumerated in any other catalogue of rights; as, for instance, with the one drawn
up by Mr. Mill, according to whom all rights may be classified as follows:--(1) Legal rights;
(2) moral rights; (3) the right of every one to that which he deserves; (4) the right to fulfilment
of engagements; (5) right to impartiality of treatment; (6) right to equality of treatment.[9]
Each of these varieties will repay a brief examination.

Under the head of 'legal' rights are commonly placed, not those only which are conferred, but
those also which are confirmed, by law. Such as law has merely confirmed, however, are of course
not the creatures of law. But it is admitted on all hands that a law may be unjust--that is
to say, it may without consent from the parties concerned, infringe some previously existing
right--and as the right so violated cannot have been created by law, inasmuch as what law had
been competent to create, law would be equally competent to cancel--it is clear that there
must be rights other than those created by law, rights whose origin was independent of, and
anterior to, law. It is apparently to rights of this description that Mr. Mill applies the
name of 'moral' rights. Examples of them are a man's rights to personal liberty and to property
in whatever belongs to him as having become his by honest means, to both of which, unless he
had forfeited them by misconduct, he would be equally entitled, whether his title to them were
or were not recognised by law. The only genuine rights which law can create, or consequently
can have to confer, are privileges in respect of person or property other than one's own. But
such legalised privileges are not necessarily rights. Whether they are so actually or not depends
mainly on the character of the legislative authority. A right to interfere with rights not
based upon law cannot be conferred without the consent of the parties in whom the independent
rights are vested, given either directly by themselves or indirectly through their representatives.
If a legislative body be truly and thoroughly representative of the community which it controls,
then every one of its enactments, however bad or foolish, is virtually an engagement to which
every member of the community is a party, and any privilege arising out of it becomes to all
intents and purposes a right. If, on the other hand, the legislative authority be autocratic,
or if it represent only certain favoured sections of the community, then none of its enactments,
however wise and good, of which a majority of the public disapprove, and which interfere with
the rights termed by Mr. Mill 'moral,' are morally binding, except on the legislators themselves
and their immediate constituents. Any one else may quite blamelessly break the law, and resist
any privilege thereby created, though he must, of course, be prepared, in case of detection,
to take the legal consequences of his disobedience. For example, protective duties, however
impolitic, if imposed because a majority of the nation were of opinion that a certain branch
of domestic industry had better be fostered by protection, could not be evaded without injustice
to those engaged in the protected industry, though there would be no injustice in smuggling,
if they had been imposed in opposition to the general sense of the public by a packed Parliament
or an absolute monarch. The same legal monopoly, which in the one case could not be justly
evaded, could not in the other be justly enforced. A legal privilege, in short, becomes a right
only when a majority of those at whose expense it is to be exercised, have formally consented
either directly or indirectly to its being exercised; and it then becomes a right solely because
an engagement has been entered into, in virtue of which, whatever is requisite for its satisfaction
has become due. Thus it appears that, whatever legal rights are genuine, and are not at the
same time 'moral' rights also, resolve themselves into specimens of the right to fulfilment
of engagements, and belong not more to the first than to the fourth of Mr. Mill's categories,
to which latter, therefore, we may at once transfer our attention.

Why is it, then, that every one has a right to fulfilment of engagements, to have faith kept
with him, to have promises observed? Solely, as it seems to me, because whatever has been promised
to any one becomes eventually his due, and because whatever is due or owing ought to be paid.
A promise is nothing less than a prospective transfer of property in some thing, or in the
advantage derivable from some action, and when the time appointed for making the transfer arrives,
whatever has been promised, whether actually transferred or not, becomes the complete property
of, and in the fullest sense of the word belongs to him to whom it has been promised; so that
the right to fulfilment of engagements resolves itself into the moral right of every one to
have that which belongs to him, and we have already seen that every legal right which cannot
on other grounds be shown to be a moral right resolves itself into a right to fulfilment of
an engagement. Whence it follows that there are no legal rights whatever which are not likewise
moral rights, and which might not therefore be equally rights, even though they had never been
legalised. Whence, and from what has just been observed with respect to the right to fulfilment
of engagements, it further follows that of the five branches of Mr. Mill's classification,
the first and fourth may without inconvenience be dispensed with, and that the second will
suffice to do duty for itself and for the other two.

We have next to consider a person's right to that which he deserves, with reference to which,
and to my assertion that there is no necessary correspondence between the remuneration which
a labourer ought to receive and either his merits or his needs, Mr. Mill inquires as follows:--'If
justice be an affair of intuition, if we are guided to it by the immediate and spontaneous
perceptions of the moral sense, what doctrines of justice are there on which the human race
would more instantaneously and with one accord put the stamp of its recognition than these--that
it is just that each should have what he deserves, and that, in the dispensation of good things,
those whose wants are the most urgent should have the preference?' But surely however just
it be that each should have what he deserves, it is so only on condition that he have it from
those from whom it is due, and do not take it from those from whom it is not due. The latter,
surely, at least as much deserve to be allowed to keep what they have already by honest means
got, as others to get what they have not yet got. But if so, then that these should be deprived
of their deserts, in order that those may get theirs, is surely about the very last doctrine
that ought to be put forward as self-evident and intuitive. 'But,' Mr. Mill proceeds to ask,
'if there be in the natural constitution of things something patently unjust, something contrary
to sentiments of justice, which sentiments, being intuitive, are supposed to have been implanted
in us by the same Creator who made the order of things that they protest against--do not these
sentiments impose upon us the duty of striving by all human means to repair the injustice?
And if, on the contrary, we avail ourselves of it for our own personal advantage, do we not
make ourselves participators in injustice, allies and auxiliaries of the Evil Principle?'[10]
Now, as I have already said, I am myself no intuitionist, but if I were, I should not the less
feel warranted in here replying that by no theory of justice, intuitive or other, can the passive
spectator of an injustice to which he is no party be bound to assist in repairing the injustice,
simply because he has the means. A creditor denied payment of his fair debts does not get what
he deserves; but upon whom, except the defaulting debtor, does it therefore become incumbent
to repair the latter's injustice by paying his debts? And if there be in the general order
of mundane affairs, as--provided I may attribute the existence of it, as of all other evil,
not to God, but to the devil--I don't mind admitting there may be--something which prevents
many of our fellow-creatures from getting their desserts, something contrary, therefore, to
our sentiments of justice whether those sentiments have been implanted in us by the Creator
or not, I still maintain that those sentiments do not impose upon us the duty of striving to
correct the injustice. They necessarily stimulate us more or less powerfully, according to
their own intrinsic strength, to undertake that noblest of all tasks, but they do not render
it imperative upon us. Whether, if we actively avail ourselves of the injustice for our own
profit--though this, by the way, is no more than every one of us does who takes advantage of
competition among labourers to obtain labour for a less price than he perceives it to be worth--we
are not making ourselves auxiliaries of the Evil Principle, may be matter of opinion; but,
at all events, we do not even then become participators in an injustice which we did not create,
and do not uphold or help to perpetuate, but merely accommodate ourselves to. At worst, we
are but accessories to it after the fact. In simply accepting the situation and striving to
make the best of it for ourselves, without trying to make it better and only abstaining from
making it worse for others, our conduct may be contemptible, mean, base, disgusting, or what
you will, only not iniquitous; for whatever, short of their deserts, may, from the cause supposed,
be received by our fellow-creatures, although in one sense plainly due to them, is as plainly
not due from us, and we cannot, without palpable injustice, as well as palpable abuse of words,
be charged with injustice for merely declining to pay debts that we do not owe.

The rights to impartial and to equal treatment need not detain us long. There is no right to
impartiality except where impartiality is due, and it is only in a small minority of cases
that impartiality is due. There is nothing iniquitous in showing favour to the extent of giving
one person more than his due, provided no other person be prevented from having as much as
his due. The lord of the vineyard who gave unto all his labourers alike, the same to those
who had wrought for him but one hour as to those with whom he had agreed that for a penny they
should bear the burden and heat of the day, did the latter no wrong; his eye was not the less
good because theirs was evil. A judge, or an arbitrator, or the conductor of a competitive
examination, is bound to make his award without respect of persons, because he cannot favour
one without withholding from some other what that other ought to have. On every distributor
of Government patronage, likewise, it is morally incumbent to select for the public for whom
he is trustee, the best servants he can find. An English Prime Minister has no right to make
his son a Lord of the Treasury or of the Admiralty, if he know of any one better fitted for
the post and willing to accept it; and if he name any but the fittest candidate, he fails in
his duty to the community on whose behalf he acts. But a private employer, acting for himself
alone, is under no similar obligation, and may take whom he pleases into his service, and assign
to him whatever position therein he pleases, without affording any cause for reasonable complaint
to those more capable members of his establishment whom he places under one less capable. In
short, except in those rare cases in which impartiality means rendering what is due, in which
cases it is but another name for justice, there is nothing unjust in disregarding it.

As for equality, although its 'idea,' as Mr. Mill says, 'often enters as a component part both
into the conception and into the practice of justice, and in the eyes of many persons constitutes
its essence,'[11] I can think of no single case in which, unless by reason of some special
agreement, it can possibly be due, or in which, consequently, there can be any right to it.
Even that equal protection for whatever is indisputably one's own, the claim of all to which
is commonly admitted almost as a matter of course, is really due from those only by whom the
obligation to afford it has been tacitly or formally accepted. On this ground it is due from
the public at large, and from those individuals to whom the public has delegated certain of
its tutelary functions, but from no other individuals whatever. No one else is bound to take,
for the protection of all other people, whatever pains or trouble he takes for his own security--to
watch, for instance, as vigilantly that his neighbour's house as that his own is not broken
into. And while the one solitary claim of any plausibility to universal equality of treatment
requires to be largely qualified before it can be conceded, there is no other claim of the
kind which does not carry with it its own refutation; there is no other which does not partake
of the absurdity patent in the communistic notion that all the members of a society are entitled
to share equally in the aggregate produce of the society's labour. How is it possible that
an equal share can be everybody's due, if different persons may have different deserts, and
everyone's deserts be likewise his due?

We have now gone completely through the list of artificially created rights, without finding
one that does not derive all its validity from connection with some pre-existing right. We
have seen that among so-called rights none whatever are genuine by reason merely of any extrinsic
sanction they may have received, but that all real rights either are such intrinsically, or
are based upon, or embody within them, some right purely intrinsic. We have seen that there
are two rights endued with this intrinsic character--viz., that of absolute control over one's
own self or person, and that of similar control over whatever else has by honest means come
into one's exclusive possession, or become due or owing to him exclusively; and, because these
rights, wherever the conditions necessary for their exercise occur, of necessity exist, springing
up at once and full grown, in the necessary absence of any antagonistic rights that could prevent
their existing, I have not scrupled to call them 'natural;' nor do I think that further apology
can be needed for such application of the epithet. To maintain, moreover, that these natural
rights constitute the essence of all artificial rights, was simply equivalent to saying that
no so-called right can be genuine unless requiring for its satisfaction no more than already
actually belongs or is due to its claimant; while every right which does require no more must
be genuine, because there can nowhere exist the right to withdraw or to withhold from any one
anything that is exclusively his. These seeming truisms are indeed diametrically opposed to
a theory which enters on its list of friends names no less illustrious than those of Plato,
Sir Thomas More, Bentham, and Mill. Still, whoever, undeterred by so formidable an array of
adverse authorities, is prepared to accept the description of rights of which they form part,
will have no difficulty in framing a theory of justice perfectly conformable thereunto.

The justice of an action consists in its being one, abstinence from which is due to nobody.
The justice of inaction--for just or unjust behaviour may be either active or passive--consists
in there being nobody to whom action, the reverse of the inaction, is due. 'Justice, like many
other moral attributes, may be best defined by its opposite,' and all examples of injustice
have this one point in common, that they withhold or withdraw from some person something belonging
or due to him, or in some other way infringe his rights, and consequently wrong him. Conversely,
a point common to and characteristic of all just acts and omissions, is that they neither prevent
anybody from having that which is due to him, nor in any other way infringe any one's rights,
and that they consequently do no one any wrong. It is not essential to the justice of conduct
that anything due be thereby rendered. It suffices that nothing due be withheld. All conduct
is just by which nobody is wronged.

It is further to be noted that all just conduct is of one of three kinds--that which justice
peremptorily exacts; that which she merely permits, and may even be said barely to tolerate;
and that which she approves of and applauds, without, however, presuming to enjoin it. Conduct
of this last sort is just in that it leaves nothing undone which justice requires, but it is
also more than just in that it does more than justice requires. To speak of it as simply just,
is therefore somewhat disparaging. It is just in the sense in which the less is comprehended
by the greater. He who faithfully fulfils an engagement that has provided for his making a
reasonable return for whatever advantage he might obtain under it, shows himself simply just
in the matter, and nothing either more or less. He who, having driven a hard bargain, insists
rigorously upon it, giving nothing less, and taking nothing more than had been mutually stipulated,
is likewise strictly just, but is also shabby, and deserves to be told so plainly. He who,
besides making full return, according to contract, for value received, does something more,
at some inconvenience to himself, out of regard for another's need, is not a whit more just
than either of the other two, but he is generous into the bargain, and deserves thanks in proportion.

Rising out of these considerations are two others equally meriting attention.

In the first place, we may see additional cause for distrusting the testimony which etymology
has been supposed to record in favour of 'an origin of justice connected with the ordinances
of law.'[12] That 'justum is a form of jussum, that which has been ordered:' that '[Greek:
dikaion] comes directly from [Greek: dikê], a suit of law:' that 'recht, from which came right
and righteous, is synonymous with law,' is obvious enough; and it may not be out of place to
add that in French the word droit has, with almost savage irony, been selected as the technical
name, not of law simply, but of legal procedure with all its crookedness.[13] Still it seems
more in the ordinary course of things to explain this linguistic identification of law with
justice, by supposing conformity to justice to have been the primitive element in the formation
of the notion of law, than by supposing 'conformity to law to have been the primitive element
in the formation of the notion of justice.' It seems more probable that certain things were
commanded because they were deemed just, than that they were deemed just because they were
commanded. Even the ancient Hebrews, who 'believed their laws to be a direct emanation from
the Supreme Being,' although, if asked why it was wrong to kill or steal, they might very likely
have replied, 'Because theft and murder have been forbidden by God,' would still have acknowledged
that it would be wrong to kill or steal, even if there had been no divine prohibition of the
practices. Principles of justice to which law ought to conform cannot but have been anterior
to law, and cannot have originated in law. And certainty on this point grows still more certain,
assurance becomes doubly sure, when we reflect that, as was pointed out above, many things
are just which, not only does not law command, but which justice barely tolerates, permitting
them, indeed, to be done, but permitting them also to be reprobated.

Secondly, we may perceive that in mere justice there can be nothing praiseworthy. Justice is
nothing more than abstinence from injustice, and no commendation can be due for not doing that
the doing of which would deserve censure. Justice, if entitled to be ranked among the virtues
at all, is at best only a negative virtue, as being the reverse of a vice. It is distinguished
from all other moral qualities, as being the single and solitary one, compliance with whose
behests is a duty which we owe to others. Of meekness, patience, temperance, fortitude, courtesy,
whatever display it may for any reason be our duty to make, precisely that display justice
requires us to make. Whatever of any one of these qualities justice does not exact from us,
we may, without wronging any one, omit. We must not, indeed, incapacitate ourselves by tippling
for our proper work, nor offend the eyes or ears of decenter folk by reeling obstreperously
through the streets; but, if we take the precaution of retiring during an interval of leisure
to our privy chamber, our making beasts of ourselves then and there to our heart's content,
is our own concern, and nobody else's. No doubt, in doing this we should be doing very wrong,
but still there is no contradiction in saying that we should have perfect right to do it, inasmuch
as we should thereby be wronging no one but ourselves. Of another class of virtues--of all
those which admit of being directly contrasted with justice, and which may for shortness' sake
be without much inaccuracy comprehended under the general designation of generosity--it may,
with literal truth, be said that the practice of them is no part of our duty to our neighbour.
Provided we are careful to let every one have what, between him and us, are his bare dues,
we may be selfish, mean, sordid to excess, without infringing any one else's rights, without
the smallest dereliction of our duty to others. I hope to be pardoned for declining to accept
these illusive distinctions as the boundaries which separate justice from the other components
of morality. I neither understand how any obligation can be otherwise than perfect, nor do
I recognise any duties whatever except those of justice. The main distinction between justice
and all positive virtues I take to be that, whereas compliance with its behests is always imperative,
compliance with theirs never is, but is always optional and discretionary. Of whatsoever is,
for whatsoever reason, due, it is invariably justice, and justice alone, that demands payment
or performance. Justice claims, and claims peremptorily, whatever is owing, but never puts
forward the smallest pretension to anything that is not owing. But since whatever is owing
plainly ought to be paid, and since justice never claims anything but what is owing, it is
clear that there cannot be any merit in satisfying the claims of justice. Merit is possible
only in actions which justice does not enjoin, but to which some other virtue exhorts.

From the main difference here pointed out, a minor collateral difference ramifies. Of whatever
ought to be paid or done, payment or performance may be righteously enforced. Here I have the
satisfaction of proceeding for a few steps side by side with Mr. Mill, although only, I am
sorry to say, to part company again immediately. This--viz., the rightfulness of using compulsion
in aid of justice, as contrasted with the wrongfulness of resorting to it in aid of generosity,
rather than the rightfulness of punishing breaches of the one and not of the other, seems to
me the 'real turning-point of the distinction' between the two. For gross disregard of generosity,
and indeed of any other virtue, may rightfully be punished, justice fully sanctioning the punishment
although indicating also the nature of the penalty to be inflicted in each case, and restricting
it within certain limits. Whoever plays the dog in the manger in a manger of his own, or makes
an exclusively selfish use of his wealth or other advantages, refusing to do good to his neighbour
at however little sacrifice on his own part it might be done, is not thereby infringing anybody
else's rights, or thereby wronging any one else. He is only exercising his own undoubted rights.
Still he is exercising them in a manner deserving of severe reprobation, and which witnesses
of his conduct may justly punish by testifying to him the scorn, disgust, or indignation he
has excited. It is no more than just that he should have his deserts and receive the punishment
which has become his due. But justice, although permitting him to be punished for acting ungenerously,
does not sanction his being compelled to make a show of acting generously. If his conduct had
been unjust instead of simply ungenerous, no punishment would be adequate that did not force
him to repair the evil he had done, or to do the good he had left undone. But the most flagrant
breach of generosity, neither keeping nor taking away anything to which any one has a right,
does nothing for which reparation can be due. It consists simply in a man's making an exclusively
selfish use of what is exclusively his, and to make such use is one of the rights of property.
Whoever exercises that odious right is justly punished by being shown how hateful we think
him, but we must not, on pretence of justice, commit the injustice of depriving him of a right
which is confessedly his.

It is not, then, by being rightfully liable to punishment that unjust differs from ungenerous
conduct. The latter also ofttimes deserves and incurs punishment. But since there can be no
merit in doing that the not doing of which would merit punishment, it may seem that, as in
justice so likewise in generosity there cannot be anything positively meritorious. Neither
in truth would there be if conduct were entitled to be styled generous simply as being the
reverse of ungenerous. Generosity would then, like justice, be a virtue in no higher sense
than that of not being a vice--a negative virtue if a virtue at all. But an action does not
really deserve to be called generous unless what justice requires be exceeded by it in a degree
more than sufficient to prevent the agent from deserving the imputation of meanness, nor even
then unless the excess have been done from a purer motive than that of the hope of praise or
other reward. An action is generous only in the proportion in which it involves self-sacrifice,
voluntarily undergone for the benefit of others, without any view on the agent's part to further
compensation than that derivable from the consciousness of making other people happy. In such
voluntary and disinterested self-sacrifice consists the merit which is one chief characteristic
of generosity as of most positive virtue, distinguishing it from justice, in which there is
never a surrender of anything which one would be warranted in keeping, but merely a rendering
of what belongs or is due to others. All conduct, not immoral, admits, as already more than
once intimated, of a tripartite division, into that which may be rightfully enforced; that
of which, though it be not due nor rightfully enforcible, neglect deserves to be and may justly
be punished by reproaches; that which is neither due nor reasonably to be looked for, but which
involves a voluntary surrender for the good of others of some good which one might without
reproach keep for oneself. Of this last description is the only conduct in which there is any
proper or positive virtue.

So much and such complex argumentation may not impossibly be deemed a good deal in excess of
what is requisite to establish the conclusion to which it points, and which may be summed up
in the following very simple propositions:--That, by a person's rights being understood the
privilege of having or doing whatever no other person has a right to prevent his having or
doing, justice consists of abstinence from conduct that would interfere with that privilege;
that justice, therefore, is not dependent on extrinsic sanction, but arises spontaneously from
the nature of things, and may almost indeed be said to spring necessarily from the meaning
of words; and that its sole merit is exemption from the demerit that would attach to the withholding
or withdrawing from any person anything belonging or due to that person. With all possible
confidence, however, in the innate vigour of these propositions, I cannot suppose that they
do not require all possible adventitious strengthening to be qualified to displace the doctrine
to which they are opposed. I proceed, therefore, to test somewhat further the adequacy of the
description of justice which they involve by confronting it with certain intricate problems,
in presence of which the rival utilitarian definition will be found to be hopelessly at fault.

There are few subjects on which casuists have differed more widely than those of the legitimacy,
and the proper measure of punishment. One thinks it unjust that anybody should be punished
for the sake of example to others, or for any purpose except his own amelioration. A second
replies that it is only for the sake of other people's good that an offender ought to be punished;
for that, as for his own good, he himself should be left to decide what that is, and he is
pretty sure not to decide that it is punishment. A third pronounces all punishment unjust,
seeing that a man does not make himself criminal, but is made so by circumstances beyond his
control--by his birth, parentage, education, and the temptations he meets with. Then, for the
apportionment of punishment, some persons think there is no principle like that of the lex
talionis--an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. Others that the penalty should be accurately
proportioned to the immorality of the offence, by whatever standard that immorality be measured.
Others, again, that punishment should be limited to the minimum necessary to deter from crime,
quite irrespectively of the heinousness of the particular crime punished. If utilitarian notions
of justice cannot be carried out without trampling each other down, they plainly should not
be suffered to go at large, but should be relegated forthwith to the limbo of oblivion. But
right cannot really be opposed to right; justice cannot really be inconsistent with itself:
it never can be unjust to do what is just. Anti-utilitarian justice tolerates no such intestine
disorder. The sole ground on which she sanctions punishment is the indispensableness of punishment
for the reparation of injury. Whoever has suffered wrong has been subjected to invasion of
some right, personal or proprietary, and is entitled to amends for the outrage; while the aggressor
from whom the amends are due, ought to render them because he owes them, and because he ought,
may, if necessary, be compelled, to render them. By the breach of right which he has committed,
he has forfeited his own corresponding right, which may now be equitably set aside to whatever
extent may be requisite for reparation of the evil he has done, one essential part of such
reparation being adequate security against repetition of the wrong. So far as may be necessary
for this purpose, punishment may equitably go, but no further. Genuine justice does not permit
penal laws of human enactment to take into account the abstract turpitude of crime. That she
reserves for divine cognisance, recollecting that 'Vengeance is mine, I will repay,' saith
the Lord. Nor does she permit the smallest aggravation of punishment for the sake either of
the offender's own mental improvement, or to discourage others from evil doing; neither, on
the other hand, does she recognise any claim to abatement on the plea of an offender not having
been able to help acting as he did. She would not, indeed, punish with death or with stripes
an outrage committed by a lunatic or an idiot, partly because an outrage may be really less
offensive for being committed unwittingly, inasmuch as it does not, at any rate, add insult
to injury, and also because the corporal chastisement of a lunatic or an idiot could afford
no reparation to the wounded feelings of a healthy mind. But so far as even an idiot or a lunatic
was capable of making good the evil he had done by rendering what had in consequence become
due, Anti-utilitarianism would require him equally with an erring saint or sage to make it,
and equally, too, would subject him to whatever restraint might be deemed not more than sufficient
to prevent his doing the same evil again. And of course she does not treat an offender of ordinary
intelligence with indulgence which she would not show even to a lunatic, but exacts inexorably
full reparation for what he has done, requiring him commonly to pay in kind so far as he can,
and to make up with his person for any deficiency. Within the limits thus marked out she is
well content that, with the one object which alone justifies punishment, other secondary objects
with which justice has no concern, should be combined. She is well content that the same penal
measures as are called for in order to compensate the injured party, should also subserve the
reform of the criminal, and serve as general deterrents from crime. But she protests against
the notion that these, or any other objects, can ever excuse the infringement of any ordinance
of justice, or of any of even a criminal's rights which the criminal has not forfeited by crime.
Justice, in short, in her penal, as in all her other arrangements, has but to adhere closely
to the anti-utilitarian principles of rendering what is due, and of taking nothing that is
not due, in order to steer clear of all the difficulties by which the ablest and most accomplished
Utilitarians confess themselves staggered. Still, it is spoken of as genuine justice, wherefore
that there is a justice independent of utility, would seem, after all, to be admitted by Utilitarians
themselves. It is for them, however, to deal with the dilemma which their own ingenuity has
thus devised. My only concern with the two-headed monster they have imagined is to protest
against its being mistaken for the one sole species of justice which Anti-utilitarianism recognises,
and which never presents any such double-faced appearance. In the case before us anti-utilitarian
justice would decide with her accustomed ease between the two appellants. What she would look
to would simply be that each co-operator should have his due. But how much soever she might
declare an inferior workman to deserve for doing his best, she certainly would not allow his
deserts to extend to participation in the fruits of the toil of those of his fellows who had
done better than he. His having produced as much as he was able could not render due to him
a share in the larger produce of others of superior capacity. Very possibly the superior workmen
might agree that all should participate equally in the aggregate results of their joint labour.
If so, well and good. For so liberal a concession they would deserve credit, and thanks would
be due to them from those in whose favour it was made; but this of itself would be a conclusive
proof, if any were wanting, that the concession was an act, not of justice, but of generosity,
not of debt, but of grace.

Again, what discordance is there not as to the most equitable repartition of taxation! That
all should be taxed in equal proportion to their pecuniary means; that taxation should be a
graduated percentage on income, rising as income rose; that all, whether rich or poor, should
be taxed alike; that all should pay equal capitation, but unequal property-tax--these are some
out of many divergencies of opinion, and 'from these confusions' there is, Mr. Mill considers,
'no other mode of extrication than the utilitarian.'[19] But if there were really no other,
there would, in fact, be none at all. For opinions differ scarcely less as to the utility,
than as to the justice of each specified mode of taxation. There are quite as many persons
who think it expedient as who think it equitable that people should be taxed either equally,
or according to any of the suggested schemes of inequality. All the help that Utilitarianism
here affords is, as usual, to leave every one to judge for himself which plan is the most advisable,
and then to pronounce that to be the only moral plan. Anti-utilitarianism offers guidance of
a very different sort. It wastes no time in seeking for an escape from confusion, for it allows
no confusion to exist. It spurns equally the idea of different persons being required to pay
different prices for equal quantities of the same thing, merely because some of them can afford
to pay more, and that of their being all required to pay the same price for different quantities,
merely because all are equally in need of the quantities they respectively obtain. It recognises
only an imperfect analogy between a club or a mess to which no one need subscribe unless he
likes, and a national community to whose funds every resident within its territory has no choice
but to contribute; and while quite content that members of the one should be assessed at any
rates to which they have spontaneously consented, it protests against the imposition on members
of the other of burdens disproportioned to their several abilities. It denies that the shilling
of a man who has but one in the world is of the same value to him because it is his all, as
is to another an estate bringing him in 100,000l. a year, seeing that, if the former had his
pocket picked, he might presently beg, borrow, or earn a second coin, whereas if the latter
were dispossessed of his estate he might live to the age of Methusaleh without acquiring its
equivalent. It perceives that a rich man, by receiving public protection for his property as
well as his person, is relieved from an expense in maintaining private watchmen, which a poor
man, with nothing but his carcass to defend, would have as little occasion as ability to incur;
and it concludes that more being thus in effect given to the rich, more is due from him in
return, and more, consequently, may be rightfully exacted.

We come, now, to a case that may well give to both Utilitarians and Anti-utilitarians pause--with
this difference, however, that whereas it brings the former to an everlasting standstill, the
latter may, after a while, go on complacently meditative, at least, if not rejoicing.

There are certain situations in which justice loses its authority. It is better, at any rate,
to be puzzled than deceived. There can be no doubt about theft being essentially unjust, and
no skill in the arrangement of words can convert injustice into justice, or prevent injustice
from being wrong. But when, as occasionally happens, the only choice open to us is between
two immoral courses, it is morally incumbent on us to select the less immoral of the two. The
wrong we decide upon does not, however, itself become smaller because it prevents a larger.
A sworn bravo, who had taken in advance the wages of assassination, would sin less by breaking
than by keeping faith with his employer; but, in either case, would sin. Abstinence from murder
would not absolve him from the guilt of perjury. If, unless a loaf were stolen, a life would
be lost, Anti-utilitarianism might pardon, but would scarcely applaud the theft. At all events
it would not, like the rival doctrine in a similar strait, be reduced to double on itself,
declaring that wrong had become right and black white, that the Ethiopian had changed his skin
and the leopard his spots. It would still insist as positively as ever that to steal another
man's bread cannot be just, however benevolent the purpose for which it is stolen.

One more illustration and I have done. Whoever believes as I do in the indefeasible sanctity
of honestly acquired moveable property, is logically bound to hold equally sacred the rights
of bequest and inheritance. With whatever is exclusively your own, you may surely do anything
you please except harm; nor need even harm be excepted if it be done to yourself alone. If,
indeed, you go the length of playing ducks and drakes with gold pieces, or of lighting cigars
with bank-notes, you are likely enough to be stopped and placed under restraint as a lunatic,
but it is clear that this will be done solely because you are presumed not to understand what
you are doing, and not from any question as to your right to do it if you do understand, for
there are plenty of things far more objectionable in themselves, only not implying a want of
sanity, which you will be left perfectly at liberty to do. If you choose, in imitation of Cleopatra,
to spoil your fish-sauce by mixing powdered pearls with it, or, in imitation of a certain Peruvian
viceroy, to shoe your carriage horses with silver, no one will dream of interfering with you;
any more than of preventing courtesans and other fine ladies from befouling their nether limbs
by sweeping the dusty road with flounces of Brussels lace; or of preventing members of the
Cobden Club from gorging themselves annually, at a cost of five guineas per paunch, in honour
of the prince of practical economists. But property, which, however great the good it is capable
of doing, you are at liberty to employ solely for your own hurt, you are, of course, at liberty
to destroy, thereby preventing it, at least, from doing any more harm. The lesser right of
abuse is plainly comprehended in the larger. And of that which is so absolutely your own that
you may, if you please, wantonly waste or destroy it, you may, of course, transfer the ownership,
thereby conveying to another person all your rights in it, and rendering it as unjust to interfere
with the new owner's disposal of the property, as it would previously have been to interfere
with yours. Moreover, since the gift is a purely voluntary act, you may, if you please, without
impairing its validity, arrange that it shall begin to take effect from some future date instead
of immediately; so that, by naming some date subsequent to your own decease, you will be converting
the gift into an equally valid bequest. This, I submit, is decisive as to the iniquity of any
legal limitation of testamentary power. The right of bequest is comprehended within and rests
upon the same basis as the right of possession, so that, unless it would be just to pass a
law depriving all persons of any property possessed by them in excess of a given amount, it
would not be just to deprive them by law of the power of bequeathing the surplus.

The rights of inheritance obviously coincide precisely with those of bequest. Just so much
as the testator parts with the legatee obtains. When the bequest is unconditional, the new
owner whom it creates steps into the precise position which the previous owner has vacated.
Often, however, a legacy is qualified by conditions, and, among others, by this, that the property
bequeathed shall be held in trust for certain purposes. Now, if these purposes be socially
noxious, society need not hesitate to set aside the will that has provided for them. Quite
justifiably, society might annul the testamentary endowment of a hospital for fleas and lice,
such as Bishop Heber, in his Indian tour, found existing at Baroach and at Surat, because those
particular insect pests could scarcely be retained within the walls of their infirmary. Perhaps,
too, society might be justified in similarly preventing the endowment of a hospital for superannuated
dogs and cats; whether it would or not depending mainly on the awkward question whether such
inferior animals have any rights inconsistent with human interests. Be this as it may, however,
where human interests alone are concerned, the rights of conditional heirship present no ethical
difficulty. When it is for purposes socially innocuous and affecting human beings alone that
property is left in trust, it cannot be equitably diverted from those purposes without the
consent of all the individuals whom the testamentary arrangements were intended to affect.
It matters not how whimsical or preposterous the object enjoined may be; not even though it
be a periodical dinner, cooked after the manner of the ancients, like the nauseous one at which
Peregrine Pickle assisted; or instruction in alchemy or in Hindoo astronomy, or in the art
of walking on one's head. Not until there remain no persons at once entitled under the will,
and also wishing to partake of the banquet or the instruction, can one or the other be equitably
discontinued? As long as there are any such persons left, to stop, without their consent and
without adequately compensating them, arrangements, rights in which have been vested in them
by bequest, would be as palpable a violation of justice as to pick their pockets of sums equivalent
to their several interests, real or supposed, in the arrangements.

If scrupulous adherence to the principle thus laid down would heavily shackle the activity
and seriously impair the immediate usefulness of Mr. Forster and his coadjutors in the Endowed
School Commission, I am exceedingly sorry, but not in the least shaken in my conviction that
the principle ought to be rigidly adhered to. If parochial or other communities are too stupid
or too selfish to consent that school endowments under their charge shall be applied to purposes
of more extensive utility than the founders contemplated, every effort should be made to persuade
or to shame them into consenting, but without their consent the thing should on no account
be done. On this point Utilitarianism and Anti-utilitarianism would, I apprehend, give identical
counsel, the former condemning as impolitic what the latter denounced as unjust. The cause
of national education would be ill served by any course calculated to discourage its future
endowment by private testators, and nothing would be more likely to have that effect than arbitrary
interference with the endowments of former testators.

The courteous reader may now be temporarily released, with fitting acknowledgment of his exemplary
patience. It would be cruel to detain him with a recapitulation, without which he may readily
trace for himself, in what has gone before, the outlines of a consistent body of anti-utilitarian
ethics. In these there is little new, little that has not been anticipated by many an old-fashioned
saw and antiquated apothegm--such as, Fiat justitia ruat cælum, 'Be just before you are generous,'
and, I would fain add, 'Honesty is the best policy'--save that to that Utilitarianism may fairly
lay equal claim. My modest ambition throughout this essay has been to vindicate some of the
most momentous of primeval truths from the slights to which philosophy--not modern, indeed,
but modernised and refurbished--is continually subjecting them, and I will not deny that I
have modest assurance enough to believe that I have at least partially succeeded. I think I
have shown that there are such things as abstract right and wrong, resting not on fancied intuition,
but on a solidly rational basis, and supporting in turn abstract justice, whose guidance, whoever
accepts it, will find to be as sure and as adequate as any that unassisted reason is capable
of supplying. Anti-utilitarian justice never tries to look half-a-dozen different ways at once,
never points at the same time in opposite directions, never issues contradictory mandates,
never halts between two opinions. Her votaries, like other mortals, may often be in doubt as
to accomplished facts; but, provided these be clear, their course is in general equally clear;
there seldom remains aught to embarrass them. If they sincerely desire to ascertain what is
due from them, they can seldom err, except on the right side, and they will never dream of
disputing that whatever is due from them it must be their duty to do, without respect of consequences.
These they will leave to the supreme controller of events, if they believe in one, and will
leave to take their chance, if they do not so believe, feeling all the more certain in the
latter case that to control events cannot, at any rate, be within their power. They never stop
to calculate how much good may perhaps ensue if evil be done. Simple arithmetic, apart from
faith, satisfies them that to add wrong to wrong cannot possibly augment the sum total of right.
The prime article of their creed is the absolute obligation of paying debts--a piece of unworldly
wisdom more than ever now to Jews a stumbling-block, and to Greeks foolishness, but not the
less to all, whether Jews or Gentiles, who will accept it, a light to show through the mazes
of life, a path so plainly marked that the foolishest of wayfaring men cannot greatly err therein.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The distinction here drawn is not merely verbal. The greatest happiness of the greatest
number may mean either the largest total of happiness in which the largest possible number
of those concerned can participate, or a still larger total, which, if some of the possible
participants were excluded, would be divisible among the remainder. The largest aggregate of
happiness attainable by any or by all concerned, means the largest sum total absolutely, without
reference to the number of participants. Writers on Utilitarianism seem to have sometimes the
first, sometimes the second of these totals in view, but more frequently the second than the first.

[2] I do not form a separate class of pleasures of the affections, because these seem to me
not to be elementary, but to be always compounded of two or more of the other five kinds.

[3] 'On Labour,' p. 135.

[4] 'Fortnightly Review,' June, 1868.

[5] See the No. for June, 1869.

[6] 'On Labour,' p. 93.

[7] 'Fortnightly Review' for June, 1869, p. 683.

[8] See 'Fortnightly Review' for June, 1869, pp. 687-8.

[9] 'Utilitarianism,' by J. S. Mill, pp. 64-8.

[10] 'Fortnightly Review' for June, 1869, pp. 684-5.

[11] 'Utilitarianism,' p. 267.

[12] 'Utilitarianism,' pp. 69, 70.

[13] 'Les légistes leur fournirent au besoin l'appui du droit contre le droit même.'--De Tocqueville,
'L'Ancien Régime,' p. 567.

[14] 'Utilitarianism,' pp. 72, 73.

[15] 'Utilitarianism,' p. 71.

[16] 'Utilitarianism,' pp. 81, 82.

[17] 'Utilitarianism,' pp. 84, 85.

[18] Ibid. p. 85.

[19] 'Utilitarianism,' pp. 86, 87.

[20] 'Utilitarianism,' p. 94.

[21] Ibid. pp. 94, 95.

CHAPTER II.

HISTORY'S SCIENTIFIC PRETENSIONS.

   Warwick.

   King Henry. Are these things, then, necessities?

  King Henry IV. Part II. Act. 3, Sc. I.

When equally competent thinkers appear to take directly opposite views of a matter of purely
speculative interest, it will commonly be found that their differences arise from their using
the same words in different senses, or from their being, by some other cause, prevented from
thoroughly apprehending each other's meaning. An illustration is afforded by the controversy
regarding the possibility of constructing a Science of History, which could scarcely have been
so much prolonged if all who have taken part in it had begun by defining their terms, had agreed
to and adhered to the same definitions, and had always kept steadily in view the points really
in debate. If the word 'science' had been used only in the restricted, though rather inaccurate
sense in which it is sometimes employed by some of the most distinguished of the disputants,
there would have been less question as to its applicability to history. No one doubts that
from an extensive historical survey may be drawn large general deductions on which reasonable
expectations may be founded. No one denies that the experience of the past may teach lessons
of political wisdom for the guidance of the future. If it were not so, history would be as
uninstructive as fairy lore; its chief use would be to amuse the fancy; and little more practical
advantage could result from investigating the causes of the failure of James II.'s designs
on civil and religious liberty, than from an inquiry into the artifices by which Jack-the-Giant-killer
contrived to escape the maw of the monsters against whom he had pitted himself. What is commonly
understood, however, by a Science of History is something far beyond the idea entertained of
it by such temperate reasoners as Mr. John Stuart Mill and Mr. Fitzjames Stephen. The science,
for the reality of which M. Comte in France and Mr. Buckle in England have been the foremost
champions, would bear the same relation to political events as Optics and Astronomy do to the
phenomena of light and of the solar and sidereal systems. It would deal less with the conjectural
and probable than with the predicable and positive. 'In the moral as in the physical world,'
say its leading advocates, 'are invariable rule, inevitable sequence, undeviating regularity,'
constituting 'one vast scheme of universal order.' 'The actions of men, and therefore of societies,
are governed by fixed eternal laws,' which 'assign to every man his place in the necessary
chain of being,' and 'allow him no choice as to what that place shall be.' One such law is
that, 'in a given state of society, a certain number of persons must put an end to their own
lives:' another, that a certain number of persons must commit murder; a third, that when wages
and prices are at certain points, a certain number of marriages must annually take place, 'the
number being determined not by the temper and wishes of individuals, but by large general facts,
over which individuals can exercise no authority.' These are general laws; but the special
question as to who shall commit the crimes or the indiscretion enjoined by them, 'depends upon
special laws, which, however, in their total action must obey the large social law to which
they are all subordinate.' A Science of History would consist of a collection of 'social laws,'
duly systematised and codified, by the application of which to given states of society the
historical student might predict the future course of political events, with a confidence similar
to that with which he could foretell the results of familiar chemical combinations, or the
movement of the planets.[22]

This is the theory which a few years ago was so much discussed, and against which, notwithstanding
the singular fascination it evidently possesses for some minds, the moral sense of a much larger
number indignantly revolts, rightly apprehending that its establishment would be subversive
of all morality. For, if the actions of men are governed by 'eternal and immutable laws,' men
cannot be free agents; and where there is not free agency there cannot be moral responsibility.
Nor are the apprehensions entertained on this score to be allayed by the answer, ingenious
as it is, which has been given to them[23] by one of the ablest and most judicious apologists
for the new creed. It is true that human actions can be said to be 'governed' only in the same
metaphorical sense as that in which we speak of the laws of nature, which do not really govern
anything, but merely describe the invariable order in which natural phenomena have been observed
to occur. It is true that the discovery of invariable regularity in human affairs, supposing
such a discovery to have been made, would not prove that there was any necessity for such regularity.
It is conceivable that the orbs of heaven may be intelligent beings, possessing full power
to change or to arrest their own course, and moving constantly in the same orbits merely because
it pleases them to do so. Invariable regularity, therefore, would be perfectly consistent with
free agency. All this is perfectly just, but it is also altogether beside the question. The
offence given by the writers on whose behalf the apology is set up consists not so much in
their asserting that there are, as in their insisting that there must be, uniformity and regularity
in human affairs; or, as Mr. Buckle expresses it, that social phenomena 'are the results of
large and general causes which, working on the aggregate of society, must produce certain consequences,
without regard to the volition of the particular men of whom the society is composed.' Now,
though free agency may co-exist with invariable regularity, it obviously cannot co-exist with
necessary regularity, which, consequently, is incompatible likewise with moral responsibility.
If men are compelled by the force of circumstances, or by any force, to move only in one direction,
they cannot be responsible for not moving in a different direction. Nor is it more to the purpose
to undertake a subtle analysis of the nature of causation, and to explain that it does not,
properly speaking, involve compulsion, but simply means invariable antecedence. Let it be that
a cannon-ball does not really knock down the wall against which it strikes, and that it would
be more correct to say that the ball impinges and the wall falls; though, seeing that the wall
would not have fallen unless the ball had impinged, the distinction is too nice for ordinary
apprehension. As understood, at any rate, by the joint headmasters of the new school, causation
does involve compulsion. 'Men's actions,' say they, 'are the product not of their volition,
but of their antecedents,' and 'result from large and general causes which must produce certain
consequences.' Neither, if this be so, is it of any avail to suggest that, possibly, the large
and general causes in question may be of only temporary operation. 'It may be that the rules,'
in accordance with which the sun has hitherto risen every morning since the creation of the
world, 'will hold good only for a time.' It may be that the springs, whatever they are, by
which the universe is kept in motion, may require to be periodically wound up like the works
of a clock, and that, unless this be done, 'on some particular day out of many billions,' the
sun may fail to rise, just as the clock, if suffered to run down, would stop on the eighth
day. The conjecture would, of course, be not less applicable to social than to natural laws.
It is conceivable that the large general causes assumed to regulate human actions might lose
their efficacy at the end of a certain cycle, when mankind might either have to recommence
a social revolution similar to the one just completed, or might have to begin an entirely different
revolution under entirely different laws. Be it so. Still, if the causes, as long as they remained
in operation, possessed a compulsory character--if, during the continuance of the supposed
cycle, men were bound to act in a certain way in accordance with certain laws, and irrespectively
of their own volition--what would it matter that those laws were not eternal and immutable?
For the time being men would no more be free agents than the hands of a clock, while the clock
was wound up. Both would be constrained to move in a prescribed direction, whether they would
or no. Men in such circumstances might well be likened, as by Mr. Buckle they are likened,
to links in a chain, but few would be prevented from joining in Mr. Goldwin Smith's eloquent
protest against the comparison, by being told that the chain perhaps was not an endless one.

It is clear, then, that the principles to which we have been adverting would, if established,
be really subversive of morality, inasmuch as they are incompatible with free agency, without
which there can be no responsibility. The soundness of a doctrine does not, however, depend
upon its tendencies; and Mr. Buckle was fully warranted in demanding that his views should
be examined with reference, not at all to their consequences, but solely and exclusively to
their truth. They certainly ought to be so examined, if examined at all; but morality is so
indispensable to the happiness of mankind, that if there were reason for apprehending it to
be based upon error, there would be equal reason for avoiding an enquiry which might demonstrate
the weakness of its foundations, by bringing forward an antagonistic truth. The only adequate
excuse, therefore, for enquiring, as I now proceed to do, into the validity of Mr. Buckle's
theory, is the confidence I feel that it will be found to contain not recondite, newly-discovered
truth, but, at best, only skilfully and curiously-compounded fallacies, which, being dispelled,
will leave the foundations of morality as firm and unimpeachable as before.

In order that he might be able to prove the possibility of a Science of History, Mr. Buckle
asked no more than the following concessions: 'That, when we perform an action, we perform
it in consequence of some motive or motives; that those motives are the results of some antecedents,
and that therefore, if we were acquainted with the whole of the antecedents and with all the
laws of their movements, we could with unerring certainty predict the whole of their immediate
results.' Now, there is certainly nothing in these demands which may not be unhesitatingly
conceded. As there can be no effect without a cause, so there can be no action without a motive:
the motive or motives of an action are the product of all the conditions and circumstances
among which the agent is placed--which conditions and circumstances, again, must have been
brought about by antecedent events. The same circumstances would indeed differently affect
persons of different mental constitutions and characters; but the original constitution of
a man's mind is itself the product of antecedent events, as is also any subsequent modification
of character which it may have undergone. It cannot be denied, then, that men's motives are
the results of antecedents. Equally undeniable is it that a knowledge of all the antecedents
and of all the laws of their movements would enable us to foresee their results, for this,
supposing the laws referred to to have any real existence, is merely equivalent to the self-evident
proposition, that if we perceived certain causes and knew exactly how they would act, we should
know beforehand what would be their effects. But what if there be no such laws? What if, on
the showing of Mr. Buckle himself and of his associates, there neither are nor can be?

The true nature of a scientific law has never been better explained than by the writer already
quoted as Mr. Buckle's dexterous apologist. A scientific law is not an ordinance, but a record.
It simply professes to describe the order in which certain phenomena have been observed uniformly
to recur. It differs from a legislative enactment, in that the one would be a law although
it were never obeyed, whereas the other would cease to be a law if one single exception to
its statement could be pointed out. Thus the Act of Parliament enjoining the registration of
births, would be equally a law although no births were ever registered; whereas the law, that
in a body moving in consequence of pressure the momentum generated is in proportion to the
pressure, would entirely forfeit its legal character if, on any one occasion or in any circumstances,
momentum were generated in any other proportion. It is essential, then, to the existence of
a scientific law that there should be uniformity of phenomena. But in human affairs uniformity
is impossible. No doubt, in exactly the same circumstances exactly the same events must happen;
but exactly the same aggregation of circumstances cannot possibly be repeated. Such repetition
is inconsistent with the very theory, which is based on the assumption that the repetition
is continually happening.

'In the moral as well as the physical world' there are, say the exponents of the new theory,
not only 'invariable rule' and 'inevitable sequence,' but 'irresistible growth' and 'continual
advance.' In other words, things can never be twice in precisely the same condition--never,
at least, within the same cycle. It has, indeed, been suggested that there may be in human
affairs the same sort of regularity as is observed by the hands of a clock; and that, as the
latter, at the end of every twenty-four hours, recommence the movement which they have just
concluded, so at the end of, say 'every ten thousand years,' all the same events which have
been happening throughout the period may begin to happen over again in the same order as before.
Such a succession, however, would involve quite as much of retrogression as of progression,
and the continual advance so boastfully spoken of would be nothing else than a tendency of
society to return to the condition from which it had originally emerged. But, even on this
uncomfortable hypothesis, there could be no regularity of occurrences within the same cycle;
no clue as to the future could be obtained from investigation of the past. On the contrary,
the only certainty would then, as now, be that no combination of events which had happened
once could happen again, as long as the existing order of things continued. The inference here
follows necessarily from the premises. If there be continual advance--if things are constantly
moving forward--they cannot remain in the same state; and if not in the same state, they cannot
produce the same effects. For, if it be obvious, on the one hand, that precisely the same causes
must invariably produce the same results, it is equally evident, on the other, that the same
results cannot be reproduced except by the same causes. If causes calculated to bring about
certain phenomena undergo either augmentation or diminution, there must be a corresponding
change in the phenomena. Now, effects cannot be identical with their causes, and, in the moral
world, effects once produced become in turn causes, acting either independently or in conjunction
with pre-existing causes. They become in turn the antecedents spoken of by Mr. Buckle, from
which spring the motives of human conduct. But, as all such antecedents must necessarily differ
from all former antecedents, they must also give rise to motives, must be followed by actions,
and must bring about combinations of circumstances, differing from any previously experienced.
Thus, in human affairs, there can be no recurrence either of antecedents or of consequences;
and, as a scientific law is simply a record of the uniform recurrence of consequences, it follows
that in human affairs there can be no scientific laws.

It will be understood that human conduct, and the circumstances or causes which influence it,
are here spoken of in the aggregate. It is not pretended that particular causes or circumstances
may not continue permanently in operation, though with an influence modified by the concomitance
of fresh circumstances; or that they may not continue to produce consequences differing from
their former consequences not more than in proportion to the modification undergone by the
causes. Still less is it pretended that certain human phenomena, with which human motives have
little or nothing to do, may not be repeated once and again, notwithstanding the important
changes constantly going on in every human society. It is not denied that marriages may continue
for years together to bear much the same annual proportion to the population, provided that
during those years there be no material change in the amount of the economical obstacles which
commonly interfere, more than anything else, with men's natural inclination to marry. Still
less is it denied that, in a given number of births, the number of girls may always preserve
nearly the same superiority over that of boys, or that the proportion between red-haired and
flaxen-haired children may generally be about the same, or that the percentage of letters misdirected
in a given country may vary little during long periods. But, in the first of these cases, men
do not get married, as Mr. Buckle imagined, irrespectively of their volition. If, for several
years together, marriages continue to bear about the same proportion to population, it is because
during that period circumstances continue to present a certain amount, and no more, of opposition
to men's connubial proclivities. In the other cases, it is not at all because the parents wish
it that a girl is born instead of a boy, or with flaxen hair instead of carrots; neither is
it from any motive or intention that letters are often misdirected, but, on the contrary, from
want of thought, and from the carelessness and haste with which letter-writing, like most other
human actions, is unfortunately too often performed. But, before assuming that this carelessness
and haste bear an invariable proportion to numbers, we should inquire whether the proportion
of misdirected letters is the same in all human societies--the same, for instance, in France
and Spain as in England. If not--if varying circumstances produce different results in this
respect in different countries--it may be inferred that a variation of circumstances may produce
a difference of result in the same country. It will, at any rate, be clear that there is no
'necessary and invariable order' in which letters are misdirected. In one sense, indeed, it
may be said that the proportion of misdirected letters depends upon 'the state of society,'
if by that expression be meant, among other things, the numerical proportion which individuals
of different characters and habits bear to each other. In that sense, we may accept some far
more startling propositions. We may partly admit that the state of society determines the number
of murders and suicides, if by this be simply meant that the number of murders and suicides
committed will depend upon the number of persons whose characters have been so moulded by circumstances
as to dispose them to put an end to their own or other people's lives. But Mr. Buckle, by whom
the assertion was made, was careful to explain that his meaning was the very reverse of what
is here supposed. 'Murder,' he elsewhere says, 'is committed with as much regularity, and bears
as uniform a relation to certain known circumstances, as do the movements of the tides and
the relations of the seasons.' 'The uniform reproduction of crime is more clearly marked, and
more capable of being predicted, than are the physical laws connected with the disease and
destruction of our bodies. The offences of men are the result not so much of the vices of individual
offenders, as of the state of society into which the individuals are thrown.'

There is here so much looseness and inconsistency of language, that what is most offensive
in it may easily bear more than one interpretation: and the shocking dogma that, in a given
state of society, the force of circumstances constrains the commission of a certain amount
of crime, may possibly admit of being explained away and softened down into the comparatively
harmless proposition that, where all the circumstances, conditions or causes required for the
commission of a certain amount of crime are present, that amount of crime will certainly be
committed. But what is most provoking in Mr. Buckle is the heedlessness or wantonness with
which he is constantly insisting that the causes in question are necessarily present and uniformly
acting. What he calls the uniform reproduction of crime is likened by him to the uniform recurrence
of the tides. According to him, it is a law that a certain number of suicides shall take place
annually, just as it is a law that there shall be high and low water twice in every twenty-four
hours. Now a law, as the word is here used, means a record of invariable repetitions of phenomena.
Has it been observed, then, that suicides bear, we will not say an invariable, but anything
like a definite proportion to population? Mr. Buckle thinks it has, and he adduces some facts
in support of the opinion; but his facts, properly understood, disprove instead of proving
what he asserts; and, even if they proved it, they would yet afford no support to his main theory.

In London, for some years past--how many is not stated--about 240 persons annually have made
away with themselves--sometimes a few more, sometimes a few less--the highest number having
been 266 in 1846, and the lowest 213 in 1849. But, while the number of suicides has thus been
nearly stationary, population has been anything but stationary in the metropolitan district,
but has advanced with vast and unremitting strides at an average rate of nearly 43,000 a year.
In 1841 it was 1,948,369; in 1851, 2,361,640; and in 1861, 2,803,989. The proportion of suicide
to population has consequently been by no means uniform, but has varied exceedingly, and on
the whole has shown a constant tendency to decrease. But even if it had continued uniform,
it would simply have shown that, during a certain number of years, the general character of
Londoners had, in certain particulars, undergone no material change. It would not have proved
that the regularity of suicide observable among Londoners was in accordance with any general
law. To prove this it would have been necessary to show that the proportion had been uniform,
not only in the same but in all societies; in Paris as well as in London, among the Esquimaux
of Labrador, and among the Negroes of Soudan. For, if the proportion were found to vary by
reason of the differing circumstances of different societies, it would plainly be seen to be
at least susceptible of variation in the same society, inasmuch as in no society do circumstances
remain the same from generation to generation. So equally with murders. Even if there were
no doubt that the percentage of such crimes in England had long continued the same, still that
fact would prove nothing as to the uniform reproduction of crime, if it could be shown that
the percentage had ever varied anywhere else--in France or Italy, for example, or in Dahomey.
For it would be mere childishness to point to the different conditions of England and Dahomey,
and to plead that no more was intended to be said than that, with uniformity of circumstances
there would also be uniformity of results. So much no one, in the least competent to discuss
the subject, would for a moment dream of disputing. But in political affairs there cannot be
uniformity of circumstances. The aggregate of circumstances from which spring human motives
cannot, from the nature of things, ever be repeated; and, though a few general causes may continue
permanently in operation, they cannot continue to produce the same identical results; for even
though they could themselves remain stationary, it would be impossible that their operation
should not be affected by the constant change going on around, or should not partake of an
otherwise universal forward movement. In political affairs there cannot possibly be any recurrence
of identical phenomena; nor can there, except within a very limited period, be any occurrence
of very similar phenomena. But recurrence (and not merely recurrence, but complete and invariable
recurrence) is the very foundation of science. Without it there can be no scientific laws,
and without such laws--i.e., without records of past recurrences--there can be no sure predictions
as to the future. It is only because certain motions of certain bodies have hitherto been observed
to take place with invariable regularity, that they are expected to continue to do so, and
it is upon that assumption only that we venture to predict that the sun will rise to-morrow
morning, or that an eclipse will take place next year. But if no event recorded in history
has ever yet been known to occur twice under precisely the same conditions, and as a consequence
of the same causes, what ground can there be for predicting whether or when any such event
will occur again? What possibility is there of constructing a science of history, when history
supplies no materials for either foundation or superstructure?

There is nothing in this conclusion in the slightest degree opposed to the most approved doctrine
of causation. No effect can be without a cause. No doubt, then, the regency of invariable causation
holds good of human volitions. No doubt the volitions and consequently the actions of men are
the joint results of the external circumstances amid which men are placed, and of their own
characters; which again are the results of circumstances, natural and artificial. So much must
needs be admitted, and something more besides. Certain causes will infallibly be succeeded
by certain effects. From any particular combination of circumstances, certain determinate consequences
and no others will result; those again will give rise to consequences equally determinate,
and those in turn to others, and so on in an infinite series. It follows, then, from the regency
of causation, that there is a determinate course already, as it were, traced out, which human
events will certainly follow to the end of time; every step of which course, however remote,
might now be foreseen and predicted by adequate, that is to say by infinite, intelligence.
Infinite intelligence would do this, however, not by the aid of law, but by virtue of its own
intrinsic and unassisted strength, wherewith it would perceive how each succeeding combination
of causes would operate. For, as cannot be too often repeated, a law is merely a record of
recurrences; and in human affairs there can be no recurrences of the same aggregate either
of causes or results. There being then no historic laws, there can be no Science of History,
for science cannot exist without laws. The historic prescience, which is an attribute of Infinite
Intelligence, not being regulated by law, or at any rate not by any law except that of causation,
is not, technically speaking, a science, and even if it were, would be utterly beyond the reach
of human intellect and attainable only by Infinite Wisdom.

The admission made in the last paragraph has cleared the way for the introduction of a question,
from which the subject under discussion derives its principal interest, and which it is indispensable
therefore carefully, though briefly, to examine. If there be certain determinate lines of conduct
which men will infallibly pursue throughout all succeeding generations, how can men be free
agents? How--for it is merely the old puzzle over again--how can foreknowledge be reconciled
with freewill? The difficulty is not to be got rid of by discrediting the reality of freewill,
and treating it as a thing for which there is no evidence. When Johnson silenced Boswell's
chatter with the words, 'Sir, we know our will is free and there's an end on't,' he expressed
a great truth in language not the less philosophically accurate on account of its colloquial
curtness. The consciousness possessed by an agent about to perform an act, that he is at liberty
to perform it or not, is really conclusive evidence that the act is free. For it matters not
a jot whether consciousness be 'an independent faculty,' or whether--as, Mr. Buckle reminds
us, 'is the opinion of some of the ablest thinkers'--it be not merely 'a state or condition
of the mind.' If consciousness be a condition of the mind, so also is perception; but perception,
whatever else it be, is also that which makes us acquainted with external phenomena, just as
consciousness is that which makes us acquainted with internal emotions. The two informants,
it is true, are not equally trustworthy. Perception often deceives us, but consciousness, never.
We often fancy we perceive what we do not perceive. We may fancy we see a ghost, when we are
merely mocked by an optical illusion, or we may mistake the impalpable imagery of the Fata
Morgana for solid objects, or the rumbling of a cart for thunder. But consciousness is infallible.
We cannot fancy we experience an emotion which we do not experience. We cannot fancy we are
glad when we are not glad, or sorry when we are not sorry, or hopeful when in despair; and
to pretend that we can possibly be conscious of willing when we are not willing, would be as
absurd as to meet the cogito, ergo sum of Descartes, with the reply that, perhaps, we do not
really think, but only think we think.

Freewill, then, being an indisputable reality, how can it be reconciled with foreknowledge?
There can be no more conclusive way of showing that the two things are capable of co-existing
than to point to an example of their actual co-existence, and such an example is afforded by
the idea of Infinite Power. Omnipotence, which by its nature implies freewill, comprehends
also Omniscience. Omnipotence can do anything whatsoever which does not involve a contradiction;
but even Omnipotence can do nothing which Omniscience does not foresee. It can, indeed, do
whatsoever it pleases; but Omniscience foresees precisely what it will be pleased to do. With
unbounded liberty to choose any course of action, it can yet choose no course which has not
been foreseen; but its freedom of choice is evidently not affected by the fact that the choice
which it will make is known before hand. Neither is that of man. An eager aspirant to ecclesiastical
preferment is not the less at liberty to refuse a proffered mitre, because all his acquaintances
have a well founded assurance that he will accept. A wayfarer, with a yawning precipice before
his eyes, may or may not, as he pleases, cast himself down headlong. Whether he will do so
or not must always have been positively foreknown to Omniscience; but that fact in no degree
affects his power of deciding for himself. If arguing on the notion that what is to be must
be, he decide on moving forward to his destruction, then what has been foreseen is simply that
he will so argue and be self-deceived, and will consequently perish. But the foreknowledge
which simply perceives what direction will be taken by the will is a very different thing from
an over-ruling destiny, which should compel the will to take some special direction. Still
it is obvious that, in this instance also, foreknowledge is based entirely on causation. It
is solely because human volitions take place as inevitable effects of antecedent causes that
Omniscience itself can be conceived as capable of foreseeing them.

But on such conditions, how can human volitions really be free? How can man be really at liberty
to will of his good pleasure, if what he is prompted to will depends on the influence which
the circumstances that happen to surround him may exercise on the constitution and character,
which he has derived from pre-existing circumstances? How can his will be free, if that will
be moulded and shaped by circumstances over which he has no control? I have, I am aware, by
the mode I have adopted of reconciling free-will with foreknowledge, incurred the obligation
of reconciling it with another co-existence of yet greater apparent incompatibility. By admitting
that 'human volitions take place as inevitable effects of antecedent causes,' that they must
be such, and cannot be other than such, as antecedent causes make them, I have admitted that
the will, though independent of law, is absolutely subject to, and must implicitly obey, causes.
Freewill, then, must be shown to be compatible not with foreknowledge only, but with necessity
also. For there is no use in attempting to ignore necessity; no use in exclaiming with Professor
Huxley: 'Fact I know, and Law I know; but what is Necessity but an empty shadow of the mind's
own throwing?'[24] A shadow it most certainly is not, though it is a bugbear, and the veriest
that was ever suffered to torment a morbid imagination. It is an indisputable reality, a substantial,
but at the same time perfectly harmless, or rather salutary reality, whose terrors need only
to be boldly confronted in order to disappear and to transform themselves into highly attractive
recommendations. For what, after all, does it imply? What but that effects must follow their
causes, and causes precede their effects, as plainly they must, unless cause and effect be
utterly unmeaning expletives. Of course we must on all occasions be affected by surrounding
circumstances, in modes exactly accordant with our idiosyncracies, moral and physical. Of course,
too, our volitions must exactly correspond with our contemporaneous affections. When we are
empty, we must, if in health, feel hungry, and desire to eat; when full, we must, unless we
are hogs, be satisfied, and prefer to ruminate. Most men are so organised that when tickled
they must laugh; when wronged, must frown or sigh. The sight of distress makes them pity, and
desire to see it relieved. That of virtue makes them admire, and desire to see it rewarded.
That of vice makes them angry, and desire to see it punished. Would we have all these things
reversed? Would it be well for us that our being starved or surfeited should make no difference
in our wish to feed, or our willingness to fast? Should we like the chances to be equal whether
we should desire distress to be alleviated or aggravated? If not, what is the bondage under
which we groan? What the liberty wherewith we long to be made free? Our sole grievance is that,
according to actual arrangements, there must be reasons for our wishes, and that on those reasons
our wishes must depend. Should we then prefer that there were no such reasons? Would we have
our wishes to be independent of reason, and adrift before irrational caprice? Probably we may,
on second thoughts, be content to forego an enfranchisement like this; but, if not, we may
at least console ourselves for its indefinite postponement, by reflecting that Omnipotence
itself is, equally with ourselves, subject to the sort of necessity under which we are groaning;
equally destitute of the sort of free-will to which we aspire. It is manifest that, since there
cannot be omnipotence without boundless liberty, omnipotence must possess completest freedom
of will. Yet even the Will of Omnipotence is subject to the despotism of causation. Divine
perfection cannot but be at all times affected in modes as exactly corresponding with its own
excellence as human imperfection is in modes corresponding with its deficiencies, and the movements
of the Divine Mind cannot but correspond with the affections of the Divine Mind. Those movements
are not unmeaning, purposeless, wayward. They, too, have their appropriate springs, and proceed
by regular process from legitimate causes, the chief of those causes being the infinite perfection
of the Divine Nature. Divine Power cannot then, any more than human, be directed by its owner's
will to purposes against which its owner's nature revolts. But is this inability a matter to
lament over? Those must be greatly at a loss for a grievance who make one of its being impossible
for them to will things which they have over-ruling reasons for not willing. Besides, does
man, in order to believe himself free, require more freedom than his Maker? The disciple is
not above his master, nor the servant above his lord. Surely it is sufficient that the disciple
be as his master, and the servant as his lord.[25]

The fact, then, that human conduct is subject to causation, and may by adequate intelligence
be predicted in its minutest details until the end of time, no more proves that it is governed
by invariable laws, which act irrespectively of human volitions, than the corresponding fact
with reference to Divine conduct impairs the freedom of the Divine Will. There is no one living
to whom such a doctrine--degrading man, as it does, into a helpless puppet, robbing him of
all moral responsibility and of every motive for either exertion or self-control--can be more
utterly repugnant than to Mr. Mill, who nevertheless, although dissenting from Mr. Buckle's
more extreme opinions, makes use of some expressions which may be construed into a qualified
approval of his general views. Even Mr. Mill speaks of 'human volitions as depending on scientific
laws,' thereby implying that the circumstances from which human motives and, consequently,
human actions result are continually recurring with a certain regularity. He speaks of 'general
laws affecting communities, which are indeed modified in their action by special causes affecting
individuals, but which, if their effects could be observed over a field sufficiently wide and
for a period sufficiently long to embrace all possible combinations of the special causes,
would be found to produce constant results.'[26] This proposition seems to proceed on the assumption
that general causes are either of uniform operation, or that, if they vary in their effects,
their variations, and also those of special causes, occur with a certain regularity, and constantly
recur within a certain definite period. But this is precisely what cannot possibly happen.
Among the general causes referred to, some few are continuous--those, namely, which are inherent
in human nature; but even these are continually modified in their action by changes continually
taking place in those other general causes which constitute the existing state of society,
and which are not merely continually changing, but are continually becoming more and more different
from what they were originally. So much is fully admitted by Mr. Mill himself, and indeed can
be scarcely more strongly enforced than by his own words. But, even though it were possible
that all the external circumstances which have once influenced either communities or individuals
could be repeated, the same circumstances could not a second time produce the same effects.
Men of different characters are affected in very different ways by the same influences, and
the characters of any particular generation of men are always very different from those of
every preceding generation. Let it be supposed, for the sake of argument, that the French of
the present day could be placed in precisely the same social condition in which their fathers
were towards the close of the last century; still they would act very differently from their
fathers. Nay, even though they should, with one single exception, have inherited the dispositions
of their fathers, the difference of character in one single individual might suffice to give
an entirely new turn to the course of events. If every other antecedent of the first French
Revolution were again present, still there might be no second revolution, provided only that,
instead of another Louis the Sixteenth, a Leopold of Belgium, or a Frederick the Great were
king.[28] With the last mentioned on the throne, there would assuredly be no repetition of
that vacillation of purpose which rocked the cradle and fostered the growth of popular fury
till it culminated in a Reign of Terror. Since, then, there cannot be either a repetition of
the same circumstances to act upon men, or a reproduction of the same sort of men to be acted
upon by circumstances, human conduct can never exhibit a repetition of the same phenomena;
experience of the past can never, in social or political affairs, furnish a formula for predictions
as to the future. Accordingly Mr. Mill, in common with Mr. Stephen, disclaims the idea of positive,
and pleads only for conditional, predictions. But the very term 'conditional predictions' involves
a contradiction, since it is obviously impossible to see beforehand what perhaps may never
come to pass. What is meant by the phrase is really nothing more than conjectures; and conjectures,
however ingenious and reasonable, cannot be admitted within the pale of science. They cannot
be accepted as fruits of a tree which has by the quality of its fruits proved its right to
be entitled the Science of History.

With the view of enhancing the value of conditional predictions, it has been urged that they
are of precisely the same description as those which we are in the habit of hazarding with
respect to our familiar acquaintance. There are, it is said, 'general maxims regarding human
conduct, by the application of which to given states of fact, predictions may be made as to
what will happen;' and all that is necessary for the construction of historical science, is
the employment of these maxims on a larger scale. If the premiss here be sound, the inference
may be owned to be sufficiently legitimate. If there be any formula with which the actions
of individuals are observed to correspond, there is every likelihood that the same formula
may, by extension and amplification, be adapted to the actions of communities. But, although
there are plenty of maxims telling men what they ought to do, there is not one--except that
which declares that they must all die--which affords any positive information as to what they
will do. General propositions, too, there are in abundance, representing with more or less
accuracy the probable results of particular lines of conduct. Such are the proverbial sayings,
that 'Honesty is the best policy,' that 'A rolling stone gathers no moss,' that 'The racecourse
is the road to ruin.' But adages like these were never supposed to afford any basis for prophecy.
It may be that an honest man more commonly gets on in the world than a knave, though there
is also much to be said on behalf of the counter-proposition, that 'The children of darkness
are wiser in their generation than the children of light;' but, at any rate, there is no doubt
that a man may be honest without being prosperous, and that he is often all the poorer for
his probity. But, indeed, is there any one conceivable situation in life in which a positive
rule can be laid down as to the course which men will follow? Can it even--to make use of an
illustration which has been very effectively employed on the other side--can it even be said
that a man will certainly marry a woman with whom he is deeply in love, who returns his affection,
whom he can marry if he likes, and whom he has the means of maintaining in a suitable manner?
Nine times out of ten he probably will; but in the tenth instance a Brahmin's passion may be
checked by fear of contamination with a Pariah, or a King Cophetua's pride may prevent his
wedding a beggar-maid, or the titled owner of an entailed estate may decline to illegitimatise
his offspring by espousing his deceased wife's sister, or betrothed lovers may be parted by
some such mysterious barrier as sprang up between Talbot Bulstrode and Aurora Floyd, or an
Adam Bede, in spite of the example set by George Eliot's hero, may refrain from marrying Dinah
for fear of breaking his brother Seth's heart.

Equally vain would be the search for any rule invariably applicable to political affairs. Even
general propositions which sound like truisms are not universally true. It cannot even be said
that misgovernment always produces discontent, or that the combination of superior strength
and superior strategy is always successful in war; for examples might be cited of nations remaining
patient under an iron despotism, and perhaps also of campaigns lost by armies with every advantage
of skill, numbers, and discipline on their side. No better specimen can be given of what are
popularly spoken of as historical laws than one propounded by Mr. C. Merivale, whose careful
study of Roman annals has taught him to regard it as 'a condition of permanent dominion that
conquerors should absorb the conquered gradually into their own body, by extending, as circumstances
arise, a share in their own exclusive privileges to the masses from whom they have torn their
original independence.' The principle thus laid down is of great value, but it must not be
mistaken for an index pointing unerringly to a goal which will certainly be obtained by following
its direction. At least the offer of Austrian citizenship had no perceptible effect in overcoming
the exclusiveness of Hungarian nationality; nor in inducing Venetia to become a willing member
of a Teutonic Federation, and to lend the same assistance to the House of Hapsburg, as Gaul
and Spain did to the Cæsars, in suppressing insurrection on the banks of the Danube. History
supplies many principles similar to the one evolved by Mr. Merivale, all more or less useful
for the guidance of the statesman. So far as they are just, they indicate the results which
would spring from the adoption of certain lines of policy, unless something unforeseen should
happen. It is true that something unforeseen is almost sure to happen and to divert or impede
the course which events would otherwise take; but still, it is most important to be able to
perceive clearly the influence exerted by certain causes, how much soever that influence may
be disturbed by other causes; since, if it does nothing else, it will at least prevent the
disturbing causes from producing what would otherwise have been their full effect. On principles
which indicate only a few out of many causes in simultaneous operation, it is evident that
nothing deserving to be called predictions can be founded; but from them, nevertheless--inasmuch
as they teach that some causes act for good and others for evil, as far as their action extends--practical
rules of government may be deduced. Such rules, however, which at best can only furnish a loose
and shifting basis for doubtful conjectures, stand without the confines of positive knowledge;
they occupy a middle-ground between science and nescience, and constitute what, until very
lately, was thought to be designated with sufficient distinctness as the 'Philosophy of History.'
By that term, Mr. Stephen in one place says, is really meant all that he ever meant by the
Science of History; and the observation, were it not apparently inconsistent with his general
reasoning, might seem to imply that the only question between him and his opponents is whether
a thing, the existence of which is not disputed, ought or ought not to receive a new appellation.
But it is otherwise, at any rate, with Mr. Mill. The language used by him on this as on all
other subjects, is too clear and precise to admit of its being supposed that he has used a
new phrase without attaching to it a new signification, or to permit the present writer to
believe, as he fain would do, that a point of nomenclature is the only point of difference
between himself and one from whom it is so difficult to differ without diffidence and self-distrust.

FOOTNOTES:

[22] Mr. Buckle's first chapter, passim.

[23] 'Cornhill Magazine,' for June and July, 1861.

[24] 'Lay Sermons,' p. 158.

[25] A highly esteemed literary friend, who has done me the favour of looking over these pages
in manuscript, considers that what I have proved is, not that Omnipotence involves the co-existence
of Freewill and Necessity, but that Omnipotence itself, although capable of possessing all
things, could not possess Freewill, and that consequently Freewill cannot possibly exist--that
there cannot possibly be any such thing.

Although, for reasons stated four pages back, not myself prepared to accept this view of the
matter, I should cheerfully accept it if I could. The argument in the text proceeds upon the
assumption that people mean something when they talk about Freewill. If, however, they have
no meaning, if the phrase be a simple sound signifying nothing, of course all controversy regarding
the possible co-existence of that nothing with Necessity is settled at once and for ever, while
no great amount of philosophy will be requisite to induce mankind to resign themselves very
placidly to the absence of that same nothing.

[26] Mill's 'Logic.' Fifth edition. Vol. ii. p. 527.

[27] Mill's 'Logic,' vol. ii. p. 504.

[28] 'S'il se fût trouvé alors (vers 1750) sur le trône un prince de la taille et de l'humeur
du Grand Frédéric, je ne doute point qu'il n'eût accompli dans la société et dans le gouvernement
plusieurs des plus grands changements que la Révolution y a faits, non-seulement sans perdre
sa couronne, mais en augmentant beaucoup son pouvoir.'--De Tocqueville, L'Ancien Régime, p. 274.

CHAPTER III.

DAVID HUME AS A METAPHYSICIAN.

     But the mischief lieth here; that when men of less leisure see them
     who are supposed to have spent their whole time in the pursuit of
     knowledge professing an entire ignorance of all things, or
     advancing such notions as are repugnant to plain and commonly
     received principles, they will be tempted to entertain suspicions
     concerning the most important truths which they had hitherto held
     sacred and unquestionable.--Berkeley's Hylas and Philonous.

In no department of science is it possible for an enquirer to advance considerably beyond all
his predecessors without serving as a light by whose aid his successors may advance somewhat
beyond him. This is the only apology that I feel disposed to offer for the freedom with which
I am about to criticize one who, having been, by judges so competent as Adam Smith and Professor
Huxley, pronounced to be 'by far the greatest philosopher' and 'acutest thinker' of his own
age, would, doubtless, be at least on a level with the greatest philosophers of the present
age if he were living now. The veriest cripple that can manage to sit on horseback may contrive
to crawl some few steps beyond the utmost point to which his steed has borne him, and, if those
steps be uphill, may, by looking back on the course he has come, perceive where the animal
has deviated from the right road. Yet he does not on that account suppose that his own locomotive
power is in any respect to be compared to his horse's; neither need an annotator on Hume, when
pointing to holes in his author's metaphysical coat, be supposed not to be perfectly aware
that it is the strength, not of his own eyes, but of the spectacles furnished to him by his
author, that enables him to perceive them.

The concentrated essence of Hume's metaphysics is to be found in 'An Enquiry concerning Human
Understanding,' forming part of a volume of Essays which Hume published somewhat late in life,
and which he desired might 'alone be regarded as containing his philosophical sentiments and
principles.' To a formal, though necessarily rapid, examination of the results of this 'Enquiry,'
the present chapter will be almost exclusively devoted. Often as the operation has been performed
already, there are two reasons why its repetition here may not be without utility: for, first,
its subject is a treatise containing the germs of much subsequent and still current speculation
which, in so far as it is merely a development of those germs, cannot but be infected by whatever
unsoundness may be inherent in them; and, secondly, because the subject, hackneyed as it may
seem, is so far from being exhausted, that there is scarcely one among the doctrines embodied
in it to which, as I proceed at once to show, fresh objection, more or less grave, may not
be taken by a fresh investigator.

To begin very near indeed to the beginning, let us take, first, the section of the 'Enquiry'
which treats of the 'Origin of Ideas.' All the perceptions of the mind may, according to Hume,
be divided into two classes, whereof the one consists of all those 'more lively perceptions,'
termed by him indifferently Impressions or Sensations, which we experience when we 'hear, or
see, or feel, or love, or hate, or desire, or will:' the other, of those 'less lively perceptions
of which we are conscious when we reflect on any of the sensations above-mentioned,' and which
are commonly denominated thoughts or ideas. The only phenomenon opposed to this rule, which
he professes himself able to think of, is that of a person who, of a colour--as, for instance,
blue--with which he is familiar, is able to conceive a shade somewhat different from any of
the shades which he has actually seen; but this instance he disregards as too singular to affect
the general maxim, to which, as he might have added, it is not really an exception, any more
than would be the power of a person who had never seen a mountain higher than Snowdon or Mont
Blanc to conceive one as high as Chimborazo or Mount Everest, for, equally in both cases, the
ideas are copies of sensible impressions, although of complex, not simple, ones--of colour
and graduation in the first case, of size and increase in the second. Still, there is at least
one genuine exception, which it is the more remarkable that Hume should have overlooked, as
it may be said to have stared him in the face from the very subject-matter he was considering.
Our idea of idea itself, from what sensible impression is that derived? We have just been told
that the difference between an idea and a sensation is that the first is a copy of the second,
a feeble copy of a lively original. The idea therefore is not itself a sensation; the copy
is not itself an original. Neither consequently can the idea or notion which the mind proceeds
to form of any of its previous ideas be derived from or be a copy of a sensation: it cannot
have entered the mind 'in the only manner by which,' according to Hume, 'an idea can have access
to the mind, to wit, by actual feeling and sensation.'

Let me not be misunderstood. Let me not be supposed to be courting collision with the Berkleian
thesis of the non-existence of abstract ideas. I do not for one moment doubt that all our general
or class notions of sensible objects or events are merely concrete ideas of individual objects
or events--that, for instance, whenever we talk of man or motion in general, we are really
thinking of some particular man or motion, which, as possessing all properties common to all
men or motions, serves as a representative of the entire genus. Neither am I prepared to deny,
although scarcely either prepared to admit, that even of abstract qualities all our general
or class notions are equally ideas of particular specimens of those qualities; that, when we
speak, for instance, of virtue or vice in general, we are thinking of some particular exhibition
of some particular kind of virtue or vice. Nay, I am not even concerned to deny that our idea
of idea in general may possibly be a copy of some particular one of our previous ideas which,
for the nonce, serves to represent all our other previous ideas. I limit myself to saying that
our idea of idea in general, whether it be or be not itself an abstraction, is, at all events,
not a copy of sensation. I admit that it thereby differs essentially from most, if not all,
other general ideas. Possibly it may be only through my having myself felt the promptings of
some particular virtue or vice, that I am able to form an idea of that particular virtue or
vice. If so, I admit that my idea of that particular virtue or vice is but, as Hume would say,
a copy of my feeling. And since, undoubtedly, I can feel myself thinking, or perceiving, or
performing any other mental operation, I am bound to admit, further, that my idea of any such
operation may equally be described as a copy of a sensation which I have experienced. All I
contend for is that if, after having formed my idea, either of a mental operation or of anything
else whatever, I proceed to ask myself what sort of an entity that idea is, the answer which
I give myself, or, in other words, the idea which I form of my previous idea, being a copy
of idea, cannot be a copy of sensation.

So much must surely be conceded to me, for that white, being white, cannot be also black is
not nearly so certain as that idea and sensation, being two distinct things, idea of idea cannot
be idea of sensation. The concession, indeed, is likely enough to be accompanied by an exclamation
of wonder that so microscopic a flaw in an elaborate exposition should be thought worth pointing
out; but Hume himself would certainly not have so retorted. He was not a man to refuse to own
himself refuted when, after distinctly intimating that the production of one single idea, having
no perception correspondent to it amongst those which we experience 'when we see, or hear,
or feel, or love, or hate, or will, or desire,' would suffice for his entire refutation, he
found such an idea produced. He knew too well also to what enormous errors of thought minute
errors of expression may lead, to disregard any speck of inaccuracy in any one of his definitions.
The apparently slight oversight committed by him on this occasion will, indeed, be presently
seen to have sensibly contributed to lead him subsequently into a mistake of no small practical
moment.

We come next to the 'Association of Ideas,' the influence of which almost all of Hume's successors,
as well as himself, seem to me to have greatly over-rated. That there is a 'principle of connection
between the different thoughts or ideas of the mind' is, as he says, sufficiently evident;
and that this principle is, as he was apparently the first to remark, threefold, deriving its
efficacy from resemblance, contiguity in time or place, and cause or effect, may also be admitted
with little qualification. But I presume to think that he is quite incorrect in adding that,
in virtue of the aforesaid principle, ideas 'introduce each other with a certain degree of
method or regularity.' You are walking, let us suppose, through Hyde Park, thinking of nothing
more particular than that the morning is a pleasant one, when you suddenly find yourself in
imagination pacing the shore of the Dead Sea, and, pausing to ask yourself how you got there,
you discover, perhaps, that it was by the following steps. Remarking some landscape effect
in the distance, you were reminded of a similar one which you had remarked years before while
taking a walk fifty miles off in Sussex. Here resemblance operated. Then you recollected how
during that walk you were thinking about Mr. Buckle, whose lucubrations you had been conning
over before starting. Here entered contiguity both of time and space. The name of Buckle reminded
you how that promising writer ended his travels abroad by dying of a fever which he caught
while sailing over the sites of the engulphed cities of the plain. Here cause and effect came
into action; and, so far, everything accords with Hume's theory. But if you repeat the same
walk to-morrow, the same landscape effect will almost certainly suggest a train of ideas quite
different from that of to-day. Perhaps it may begin by reminding you of landscape effects in
general; then of Mr. Ruskin, who has discoursed so eloquently on that topic, and next of Mr.
Ruskin's 'Stones of Venice,' from whence it is equal chances whether your thoughts radiate,
on one side of the compass, to stone china, or Stoney Stratford, or Stonewall Jackson, or,
on the other, to the 'Venetian Bracelet,' L. E. L. and Fernando Po, or to that effective adaptation
of the Venetian style of architecture, the Railway Station at St. Pancras, and thence to some
town or other on the Midland Line.

These examples will be readily recognized as fair average specimens of those unpremeditated
trains of thought with which we are all familiar. Is there, then, in the arrangement of the
consecutive thoughts of which the several trains are composed, any method or regularity common,
I will not say to all, but to any two of them? According to Hume and to most of his successors
in the same path of enquiry, there ought to be. Thus the illustrious author of the 'Analysis
of the Human Mind' affirms, without rebuke or protest from any one of his not less illustrious
commentators, that 'our ideas spring up or exist in the order in which the sensations existed
of which they are the copies: that of those sensations which occurred synchronically, the ideas
also spring up synchronically, and that of the sensations which occurred successively, the
ideas rise successively.' And he adds, 'this is the general law of the Association of Ideas,'
remarking, by way of illustration, that, as 'I have seen the sun, and the sky in which it is
placed, synchronically, if I think of the one I think of the other at the same time'; and that,
as when committing to memory a passage of words, as, for instance, the Lord's Prayer, we pronounce
the words in successive order, and have consequently the sensation of the words in successive
order, so when we proceed to repeat the passage, 'the ideas of the words also rise in succession,
Our suggesting Father, Father suggesting which, which suggesting art, and so on to the end.'[29]

Oh Law! Law! most abused of scientific terms, what an infinity of dogmatic illegalities are
committed in thy name! The one thing which scientific law implies is regularity of occurrence,
but what regulation is it that is obeyed in common by a number of sequences commencing at the
same point in Hyde Park, yet terminating, one in Africa, another in America, a third in Palestine,
and a fourth in the centre of England? Can it have been seriously said that it is impossible
for us to think of the sky without thinking simultaneously of the sun which illuminates the
sky? Is it impossible for us to think instead of the ether which constitutes it, or peradventure
even of the resemblance between its celestial azure and what Moore calls the 'most unholy blue'
of some frolicsome Cynthia's eyes? And is it not notorious that when saying the Lord's Prayer--a
prayer which, in spite of the injunction by which its original dictation was accompanied, to
'avoid vain repetitions, as the heathen do,' many Anglican clergymen insist on repeating half-a-dozen
times in a single service--is it not notorious that, so far from the idea of one word suggesting
to us the idea of the next, no small effort of attention is requisite to enable us to have
any idea at all of what we are saying?

It would seem that the author of the 'Analysis' either could not help asking himself questions
like these, or, without asking the questions, could not help seeing the commonplace truths
involved in the inevitable replies to them. It would seem to have been semi-consciousness of
the utter inability of the evidence first cited by him to justify belief in the necessarily
simultaneous or successive occurrence of the ideas of simultaneously or successively experienced
sensations, which made him have recourse for help to complex ideas. 'If,' he says, 'from a
stone I have had synchronically the sensation of colour, the sensation of hardness, the sensations
of shape and size, the sensation of weight,--when the idea of one of these sensations occurs,
the ideas of all of them occur.' Because, then, I may have ascertained by experience that a
stone is white, hard, and round, two feet in diameter, and twenty pounds in weight, am I really
incapable, if I happen to break my shin against it, of thinking how hard it is, without thinking
also how heavy; or, when trying to lift it, of thinking how heavy it is without thinking likewise
of its shape and colour? Elsewhere the same writer speaks of 'ideas which have been so often
conjoined that whenever one exists in the mind, the others immediately exist along with it,
seem to run into one another, to coalesce, as it were, and out of many to form one idea.' But
which are the ideas whereof this can be said? The writer instances those simple ideas, colour,
hardness, extension, weight, which, he says, make up our complex ideas of gold or iron. He
instances, too, the ideas of resistance, muscular contractility, direction, extension, place,
and motion, of which he says our apparently simple idea, weight, is compounded. Does he mean,
then, that we cannot entertain the idea of yellowness without entertaining at the same time
all the other ideas necessary for composing the idea of gold, and entertaining, too, that idea
in addition to all the rest? Does he mean that a train of thought cannot commence with place
without terminating with weight? Of course he means nothing of the kind, although so he distinctly
says. Rather, he appears to mean the direct converse, viz., that we cannot have the idea of
gold or of weight present to the mind, without having present also all the simple ideas of
which those complex ideas are compounded--in other words, not that the occurrence of any one
component necessarily calls up all the other components, and forms with them the compound,
but that the appearance of the compound brings with it all its separate components.

But neither does this seem to be a strictly correct representation. I am not sure that I can
think of gold without thinking of yellowness, but I am positive that I can without thinking
of hardness. Nor is there any doubt that the youngest child knows perfectly well what it means
when, trying to lift a stone, it calls the stone heavy, although it might not be more difficult
to make the stone itself than the child understand what is meant by muscular contractility.
I own that if it be here demanded of me how a compound can be present unless every one of its
components be present also, I may under pressure be constrained to suggest that possibly, after
all, the very term compound or complex idea may be somewhat of a misnomer, or at any rate that
the constituents of such an idea are much fewer than is commonly supposed. Be it admitted that
the idea, so styled, could not have been formed without the instrumentality of other and previously-formed
ideas, still it does not follow that the instruments of production should for ever after accompany
the product. The rackful of dry toast which is brought to you for breakfast could scarcely
have been so neatly sliced without the help of a knife, but the toast is not the less in bodily
presence on the breakfast-table because the knife that cut it has been left behind in the kitchen.
Neither, although you may probably be aware that salt, suet, sugar, and spice enter into the
composition of a Christmas pudding, do you necessarily think of those separate ingredients
when you think of the pudding, any more than you would see them separately if you saw the pudding.
The only qualities which you apparently cannot help thinking of when you think of the pudding
are its size, shape, and colour.

One word more about the assumed regularity in the succession of ideas. That when you are repeating
a familiar form of words or playing a familiar piece of music, every word uttered or note struck,
by reason of connexion of some sort between itself and the word or note next in order, enables
you without the smallest mental effort to utter that word or strike that note, is too notorious
to be questioned. But I do very earnestly question whether the connexion that thus operates
is an association of ideas. How can it be, when, as frequently happens, you have not the smallest
idea of what it is you are saying or playing? Have you not often, after reverently saying grace,
like the decent paterfamilias you probably are, occasioned a giggle round the table by saying
it again a minute or two afterwards, in utter unconsciousness that you had said it just before?
Or, if I may so far flatter myself as to fancy my reader a fair daughter of the house instead
of the staid house father--has it never happened to you, Miss, while executing a brilliant
performance on the piano, to have been so entirely engrossed by an animated flirtation carried
on simultaneously, that, if at the conclusion of the piece you had been asked what you had
been playing, you could not have replied whether it was Là ci darem la mano or Non mi voglio
maritar? And is it not evident that non-existent ideas cannot have called real ideas into existence?

My own modest contribution towards explanation of these mysterious phenomena is as follows.
Apart from association of ideas, there is a separate and independent association--to wit, association
of volitions. While committing to memory a form of words, or trying a new piece of music, every
separate movement of your tongue or of your fingers is consequent on some separate volition.
Each series of movements is consequent on a series of volitions. By being repeatedly made to
follow each other in the same order, the several volitions become connected with each other,
so that whenever the mind desires to marshal them in the aforesaid order, each one, as it presents
itself, brings with it the next in succession, until the whole series is completed; while,
as each volition has consequent upon it a corresponding movement, a series of corresponding
movements simultaneously takes place. The mind meanwhile is quite unconscious of the muscular
movements that are going on. What it is conscious of are the volitions without which no voluntary
movements of the muscles could have been made, and of which the mind must needs be conscious,
because a volition of which the mind was not conscious would be an involuntary volition, a
birth too monstrous for even metaphysics to be equal to. But although necessarily conscious
of these volitions, the mind is only momentarily conscious. It pays them barely an instant's
attention, and therefore instantaneously forgets them, retaining no more trace of them than
if they had never been.

