I renounce all prophesying; I will never suppose that I can foresee politically; I can foresee
nothing, what ever I may foretell.  Here is a ministry formed of all the people who for these
ten weeks have been giving each other exclusion!  I will now not venture, even to pronounce
that they cannot agree together.  On Saturday last, the 18th, Lord Hardwicke carried  to Kensington
the result of the last negotiations between  Newcastle and Pitt, and the latter followed and
actually kissed hands again for the seals.(794)  Here is the arrangement as far as I know it,
the most extraordinary part  of which is, that they suffer Mr. Fox to be paymaster--oh! no,
it is more extraordinary that he will submit to be so.  His  grace returns to the treasury,
and replaces there his singular  good friend Mr. Legge.  Lord Holderness "comes to life again
as secretary of state; Lord Anson reassumes the admiralty, not  with the present board, nor
with his own, but with Mr. Pitt's,  and this by Mr. Pitt's own desire.  The Duke of Dorset
retires  with a pension of 4000 pounds a-year, to make room for Lord  Gower, that he may make
room for Lord Temple.  Lord George  Sackville forces out Lord Barrington from secretary at
war,  who was going to resign with the rest, for fear Mr. Fox should, and that this plan should
not take place.  Lord Hardwicke, young disinterested creature! waits till something drops.
Thus far all was smooth; but even this perfection of harmony and wisdom meets with rubs.  Lord
Halifax had often  and lately been promised to be erected into a secretary of  state for the
West Indies.  Mr. Pitt says, "No, I will not  part with so much power."  Lord Halifax resigned
on Saturday,  and Lord Dublin succeeds him.  The two Townshends are gone  into the country
in a rage; Lord Anson is made the pretence;  Mr. Fox is the real sore to George, Lord G. Sackville
to Charles.  Sir George Lee, who resigned his treasurership to  the Princess against Mr. Pitt,
and as the world says, wanting  to bring Lord Bute into Doctors' Commons,(795) is succeeded
by  Lord Bute's brother M'Kinsy; but to be sure, all this, in  which there is no intrigue,
no change, no policy, no hatred,  no jealousy, no disappointment, no resentment, no mortification,
no ambition, Will produce the utmost concord!  It is a system formed to last; and to be sure
it will! In the  mean time, I shall bid adieu to politics; my curiosity is  satisfied for some
months, and I shall betake myself to employments I love better, and to this place, which I
love  best of all.  Here is the first fruit of my retirement; behind  a bas-relief in wax of
the present Pope I have writ the following inscription:

Prospero Lambertini Bishop of Rome by the name of Benedict IV. who, though an absolute Prince,
reigned as harmlessly as a  Doge of Venice.  He restored the lustre of the Tiara by those 
arts alone, by which alone he obtained it, his Virtues. Beloved by Papists, esteemed by Protestants:
A Priest without insolence or interest; A Prince without favourites; A Pope without nepotism:
An Author without vanity; In short, a Man  whom neither Wit nor Power could spoil.  The Son
of a favourite Minister, but One, who never courted a Prince, nor worshipped a Churchman, offers,
in a free Protestant Country, this deserved Incense to the Best of the Roman Pontiffs.

If the good old soul is still alive, and you could do it unaffectedly and easily, you may convey
it to him; it must be  a satisfaction to a good heart to know that in so distant a country,
so detached from his, his merit is acknowledged, without a possibility of interest entering
into the consideration.  His death-bed does not want comfort or cheerfulness, but it may be
capable of an expansion of heart that May still sweeten it! Adieu!

(794) "On the day they were all to kiss hands," says Lord Waldegrave, "I went to Kensington,
to entertain myself with  the innocent, or, perhaps, ill-natured amusement of examining  the
different countenances.  The behaviour of Pitt and his  party was decent and sensible; they
had neither the insolence  of men who had gained a victory, nor were they awkward and  disconcerted,
like those who come to a place where they know  they are not welcome: but as to the Duke of
Newcastle, and his  friends the resigners, there was a mixture of fear and of  shame on their
countenances: they were real objects of compassion."  Memoires, 138.-E.

(795) Meaning the offence he took at Lord Bute's favourite.   Sir George Lee was a civilian.

382 Letter 225 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, July 3, 1757.

I have been under great uneasiness about you; Coloredo, the Austrian minister, is recalled
precipitately, with orders not  to take leave.  our papers joined Pucci(796) with him in this
recall, but I do not find with any foundation. However, I  cannot be easy while your situation
is precarious.  One should  conceive that the advantages of the English trade to Tuscany  would
induce the Emperor to preserve a neutrality; but what  are good reasons against his wife's
vengeance and obstinacy,  and haughtiness? Tell me immediately what you think or hear on  this
head; what steps you would take; whither you would retire  if this should happen; whether you
would not come home to  watch over your own interest and return, or whether you would  be more
in the way by remaining in Italy.  I know not what to  advise; I don't even know how this letter
is to get to you,  and how our correspondence will continue; at least it must be  very irregular,
now all communication is cut off through the Empress's dominions.  I am in great solicitude!

Had this recall happened a week later I should not have wondered: it was haughty, indeed, at
the time it was dictated; but two days, and we heard of the reversal of all the King of Prussia's
triumphs; of his being beat by Count Daun; of the siege of Prague being raised: of Prince Charles
falling on  their retreat and cutting off two thousand: we would willingly  not believe to
the extent of all this,(797) yet we have known  what it is to have our allies or ourselves
beaten!  The Duke  has been forced to pass the Weser, but writes that the French  are so distressed
for provisions that he hopes to repass it. I notified to you the settlement of the ministry,
and, contrary to late custom, have not to unnotify it again. However, it took ten days to complete,
after an inter-ministerium of exactly three months.  I have often called this the age of abortions;
for the present, the struggles of the three factions, that threatened such disturbances, have
gone off like other forebodings.  I think I told you in my last the chief alterations; the
King would not absolutely give the secretary at war to Lord George Sackville; Lord Barrington
remains: the Duke of Dorset would not take a pension eo nomine; his cinque-ports are given
to him for life, with a salary of four thousand pounds a-year.  Lord Cholmondeley, who is removed
for Potter, has a pension equal  to his place.  Mr. M'Kinsy is not treasurer to the Princess,
as I told you.  One of the most extraordinary parts of the new  system is the advancement of
Sir Robert Henley.  He was made attorney-general by Mr. Fox at the end of last year, and made
as bad a figure as might be.  Mr. Pitt insisting upon an attorney-general of his own, Sir Robert
Henley is made lord keeper!(798)  The first mortification to Lord Holderness has been, that,
having been promised a garter as well as Lord Waldegrave, and but one being vacant, that one,
contrary to customs has been given to the latter, with peculiar marks of grace.  I now come
to your letter of June 18th, and attribute  to your distance, or to my imperfect representations
of our  actors and affairs, that you suppose our dissensions owing to  French intrigues--we
want no foreign causes; but in so precarious a letter as this I cannot enter into farther explanations;
indeed the French need not be at any trouble to distract or weaken our councils!

I cannot be at peace while your fate is in suspense; I shall watch every step that relates
to it, but I fear absolutely impotent to be of any service to you: from Pucci's not being recalled,
I would hope that he will not be.  Adieu!

P. S. Lord Dublin is not yet first lord of trade; there are negotiations for recovering Lord
Halifax.

July 5th.

As I was sending this to London I received the newspapers of yesterday, and see that old Pucci
is just dead.  I cannot help flattering myself that this is a favourable event: they cannot
recall no minister; and when they do not, I think we shall  not.

(796) Resident from Florence.  He was here for fifty years,  and said he had seen London twice
built.  This meant, that  houses are run up so slightly that they last but few years.

(797) the King of Prussia had been completely beaten at Kolin  by the Austrians, commanded
by Count Daun, on the 17th of  June.  He was in consequence obliged to retreat from Bohemia,
and soon found himself, surrounded as he was by increasing and  advancing enemies, in one of
the most critical positions of  his whole military life.  You may be sure I  am not so satisfied,
as Lady Mary(800) has left Sudbroke.

(799) He was apt to be dirty.

(800) Lady Mary Coke, daughter of John Campbell, Duke of Argyle, and sister to Lady Strafford.

(801) The Countess of Coventry.-E.

(802) Lord Bolingbroke, and his brother, the Hon. Henry St. John.-E.

(803) General Conway.

(804) A translation of the Memoirs of the Marquis de Torcy, secretary of state to Louis XIV.,
had just been published in London.  E.

(805) For a review of these volumes by Oliver Goldsmith, see  the enlarged edition of his Miscellaneous
Works, vol. iii. p.  445.- E.

385 Letter 227 To John Chute, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 12, 1757.

It would be very easy to persuade me to a Vine-voyage,(806) without your being so indebted
to me, if it were possible.  I shall represent my impediments, and then you shall judge. I
say nothing of the heat of this magnificent weather, with the  glass yesterday up to three-quarters
of sultry.  In all English probability this will not be a hindrance long; though at present,
so far from travelling, I have made the tour of my own garden but once these three days before
eight at night,  and then I thought I should have died of it.  For how many  years we shall
have to talk of the summer of fifty-seven!--But  hear: my Lady Ailesbury and Miss Rich come
hither on Thursday  for two or three days; and on Monday next the Officina Arbuteana opens
in form.  The Stationers' Company, that is,  Mr. Dodsley, Mr. Tonson, etc., are summoned to
meet here on  Sunday night.  And with what do you think we open?  Cedite,  Romani Impressores--with
nothing under Graii Carmina.  I found  him in town last week: he had brought his two Odes to
be printed.  I snatched them out of Dodsley's hands, and they are to be the first fruits of
my press.  An edition of Hentznerus, with a version by Mr. Bentley and a little preface of
mine,  were prepared, but are to wait.  Now, my dear sir, can I stir? "Not ev'n thy virtues,
tyrant, shall avail!"

Is not it the plainest thing in the world that I cannot go to you yet, but that you must come
to me?

I tell you no news, for I know none, think of none.  Elzevir, Aldous, and Stephens are the
freshest personages in my memory. Unless i was appointed printer of the Gazette, I think nothing
could at present make me read an article in it.  Seriously you must come to us, and shall be
witness that the first holidays  we have I will return with you.  Adieu!

(806) To visiting Mr. Chute at the Vine, his seat in Hampshire.

386 Letter 228 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 16, 1757.

You do me justice in believing that I enjoy your satisfaction;  I do heartily, and particularly
on this point: you know how  often I have wished this reconciliation: indeed you have taken
the handsomest manner of doing it, and it has been accepted handsomely.  I always had a good
opinion of your cousin, and I am not apt to throw about my esteem lightly.  He has ever behaved
with sense and dignity, and this country has more obligations to him than to most men living.

the weather has been so hot, and we are so unused to it, that nobody knew how to behave themselves;
even Mr. Bentley has  done shivering.

Elzevirianum opens to-day; you shall taste its first fruits.   I find people have a notion
that it is very mysterious; they  don't know how I should abhor to profane Strawberry Hill
with politics.  Adieu!

386 Letter 229 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Thursday, 17.

I only write you a line to tell you, that as you mention Miss Montagu's being well and alone,
if she could like to accompany the Colonel(807) and you to Strawberry Hill and the Vine, the
seneschals of those castles will be very proud to see her.  I  am sorry to be forced to say
any thing civil in a letter to  you; you deserve nothing but ill-usage for disappointing us
so  often, but we stay till we have got you into our power, and  then--why then, I am afraid
we shall still be what I have been  so long.

(807) mr. Montagu's brother.

387 Letter 230 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, July 25, 1757.

The Empress-Queen has not yet hurt my particular.  I have received two letters from you within
this week, dated July 2d and 9th.  Yet she has given up Ostend and Nieuport, and, I think,
Furnes and Ypr`es, to the French.  We are in a piteous way!  The French have passed the Weser,
and a courier yesterday brought word that the Duke was marching towards  them, and within five
miles: by this time his fate is decided.   The world here is very inquisitive about a secret
expedition(808) which we are fitting out: a letter is not a  proper place to talk about it;
I can only tell you, that be it  whither it will, I do not augur well about it, and what makes
me dislike it infinitely more, Mr. Conway is of it.  I am more  easy about your situation than
I was, though I do not like the  rejoicings ordered at Leghorn for the victory over the Prussians.

I have so little to say to-day that I should not have writ,  but for one particular reason.
The Mediterranean trade being arrived, I concluded the vases for Mr. Fox were on board it,
but we cannot discover them.  Unluckily it happens that the  bill of lading is lost, and I
have forgot in what ship they  were embarked.  In short, my dear Sir, I think that, as I  always
used to do, I gave the bill to your dearest brother, by  which means it is lost.  I imagine
you have a duplicate.  send  it as soon as you can.

I thank you for what you have given to Mr. Phelps.  I don't  call this billet part of the acknowledgment.
All the world is dispersed: the ministers are at their several villas: one day  in a week serves
to take care of a nation, let it be in as bad  a plight as it will! We have a sort of Jewish
superstition,  and would not come to town on a Saturday or Sunday though it  were to defend
the Holy of Holies.  Adieu!

(808) the expedition to Rochfort.

387 Letter 231 To John Chute, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 26, 1757.

I love to communicate my satisfactions to you.  You will imagine that I have got an original
portrait of John Guttemburg, the first inventor of printing, or that I have met with a little
boke called Eneyr dos, which I am going to translate and print.  No, no; far beyond any such
thing! Old Lady Sandwich(809) is dead at Paris, and my lord has given me her picture of Ninon
l'Enclos; given it me in the prettiest manner in the world.  I beg if he should ever meddle
in any election in Hampshire, that you will serve him to the last  drop of your shrievalty.
If you reckon by the thermometer of  my natural impatience, the picture would be here already,
but  I fear I must wait some time for it.

The press goes on as fast as if I printed myself.  I hope in a very few days to send you a
specimen, though I could wish you was at the birth of the first produce.  Gray has been gone
these five days.  Mr. Bentley has been ill, and is not recovered of the sweating-sickness,
which I now firmly believe was only a hot summer and England, being so unused to it, took it
for a malady.  mr. Muntz is not gone; but pray don't think that I keep him: he has absolutely
done nothing this whole summer but paste two chimney-boards.  In short, instead of Claude Lorrain,
he is only one of Bromwich's men.

You never saw any thing so droll as Mrs. Clive's countenance, between the heat of the summer,
the pride in her legacy,(810) and the efforts to appear concerned.

We have given ourselves for a day or two the air of an earthquake, but it proved an explosion
of the powder-mills at Epsom.  I asked Louis if it had done any mischief: he said, "Only blown
a man's head off;" as if that was a part one could spare!

P. S. I hope Dr. Warburton will not think I encroach either  upon his commentatorship or private
pretension, if I assume  these lines of Pope, thus altered, for myself:

"Some have for wits, and then for poets pass'd turn'd printers next, and proved plain fools
at last."

(809) Daughter of the famous Wilmot Earl of Rochester.

(810) A legacy of fifty pounds, left her by John Robarts, the last Earl of Radnor of that family.

388 Letter 232 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, August 4, 1757.

Mr. Phelps (who is Mr. Phelps?) has brought me the packet  safe, for which I thank you.  I
would fain have persuaded him  to stay and dine, that I might ask him more questions about
you.  He told me how low your immaterial spirits are: I fear  the news that came last night
will not exalt them.  The French  attacked the Duke for three days together, and at last defeated
him.  I find it is called at Kensington an encounter(811) of fourteen squadrons; but any defeat
must be fatal to Hanover.  I know few particulars, and those only by a messenger despatched
to me by Mr. Conway on the first tidings: the Duke exposed himself extremely, but is unhurt,
as they  say, all his small family are.  In what a situation is our  Prussian hero, surrounded
by Austrians, French, and Muscovites-even impertinent Sweden is stealing in to pull a feather
out of his tail!  What devout plunderers will every little Catholic prince of the empire become!
The only good I hope to extract out of this mischief is, that it will stifle  our secret expedition,
and preserve Mr. Conway from going on  it.  I have so ill an opinion of our secret expeditions,
that  I hope they will for ever remain so.  What a melancholy picture is there of an old monarch
at Kensington, who has  lived to see such inglorious and fatal days!  Admiral Boscawen  is
disgraced.  I know not the cause exactly, as ten miles out  of town are a thousand out of politics.
He is said to have  refused to serve under Sir Edward Hawke in this armament.   Shall I tell
you what, more than distance, has thrown me Out  of attention to news? A little packet which
I shall give your  brother for you, will explain it.  In short, I am turned printer, and have
converted a little cottage here into a printing-office.  My abbey is a perfect colicue or academy.
I keep a painter in the house and a printer--not to mention Mr. Bentley, who is an academy
himself.  I send you two copies  (one for Dr. Cocchi) of a very honourable opening of my press-
-two amazing Odes of Mr. Gray; they are Greek, they are Pindaric, they are sublime! consequently
I fear a little obscure; the second particularly, by the confinement of the measure and the
nature of prophetic vision, is mysterious.(812)  I could not persuade him to add more notes;
he says whatever wants to be explained, don't deserve to be.   I shall venture to place some
in Dr. Cocchi's copy, who need  not be supposed to understand Greek- and English together,
though he is so much master of both separately.  To divert you  in the mean time, I send you
the following copy of a letter  written by my printer(813) to a friend in Ireland.  I should
tell you that he has the most sensible look in the world;  Garrick said he would give any money
for four actors with such  eyes--they are more Richard the Third's than Garrick's own;  but
whatever his eyes are, is head is Irish.  Looking for  something I wanted in a drawer, I perceived
a parcel of strange romantic words in a large hand beginning a letter; he saw me see it, yet
left it, which convinces me it was left on purpose: it is the grossest flattery to me, couched
in most ridiculous scraps of poetry, which he has retained from things he has printed; but
it will best describe itself:--

"SIR, "I DATE this from shady bowers, nodding groves, and amaranthine shades,--close by old
Father Thames's silver side- -fair Twickenham's luxurious shades--Richmond's near neighbour,
where great George the King resides.  You will wonder at my prolixity--in my last I informed
you that I was going into the country to transact business for a private gentleman.  This gentleman
is the Hon. Horatio Walpole, son to the late great Sir Robert Walpole, who is very studious,
and  an admirer of all the liberal arts and sciences; amongst the  rest he admires printing.
He has fitted out a complete printing-house at this his country seat, and has done me the favour
to make me sole manager and operator (there being no  one but myself).  All men of genius resorts
his house, courts  his company, and admires his understanding--what with his own  and their
writings, I believe I shall be pretty well employed.--I have pleased him, and I hope continue
so to do. Nothing can be more warm than the weather has been here this time past; they have
in London, by the help of glasses, roasted in the artillery-ground fowls and quarters of lamb.
The coolest days that I have felt since May last are equal to, nay, far exceed the warmest
I ever felt in Ireland.  The place  I am in now is all my comfort from the heat--the situation
Of  it is close to the Thames, and is Richmond Gardens (if you  were ever in them) in miniature,
surrounded by bowers, groves, cascades, and ponds, and on a rising ground, not very common
in this part of the country--the building elegant, and the furniture of a peculiar taste, magnificent
and superb He is a bachelor, and spends his time in the studious rural taste--not like his
father, lost in the weather-beaten vessel of state-- many people censured, but his conduct
was far better than our late pilots at the helm, and more to the interest of England- -they
follow his advice now, and court the assistance of Spain, instead of provoking a war, for that
was ever against England's interest."

I laughed for an hour at this picture of myself, which is much more like to the studious magician
in the enchanted opera of Rinaldo; not but Twickenham has a romantic genteelness that would
figure in a more luxurious climate.  It was but yesterday that we had a new kind of auction-it
was of the orange-trees and plants of your old acquaintance, Admiral Martin.  It was one of
the warm days of this jubilee summer, which appears only once in fifty years--the plants were
disposed in little clumps about the lawn: the company walked  to bid from one to the other,
and the auctioneer knocked down  the lots on the orange tubs.  Within three doors was an auction
of china. You did not imagine that we were such a metropolis!  Adieu!

(811) The battle at Hastenbeck.

(812) Gray, in a letter to Dr. Wharton, of the 17th of August, says, "I hear we are not at
all popular: the great objection  is obscurity: nobody knows what we would be at: one man,
a  peer, I have been told of, that think's -the last stanza of  The second Ode relates to Charles
the First and Oliver Cromwell; in short, the zuveroi appear to be still fewer than even, I
expected." Works, vol. iii. p. 165-E.

(813) William Robinson, first printer to the press at Strawberry Hill.

390 Letter 233 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Aug. 4, 1757.

I shall to-morrow deliver to your agentess, Mrs. Moreland, something to send to you.

The Duke(814) is beaten by the French; he and his family are safe; I know no more particulars-if
I did, I should say, as I have just said to Mr. Chute, I am too busy about something to have
time to write them.  Adieu!

(814) The Duke of Cumberland, in the affair of Hastenbeck.

391 Letter 234 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, August 14, 1757.

You are too kind to me, and, if it were possible, would make  me feel still more for your approaching
departures.(815)  I  can only thank you ten thousand times; for I must not expatiate, both
from the nature of the subject, and from the uncertainty of this letter reaching you.  I was
told yesterday, that you had hanged a French spy in the Isle of Wight; I don't mean you, but
your government.  Though I wish  no life taken away, it was some satisfaction to think that
the French were at this hour wanting information.

Mr. Fox breakfasted here t'other day.  He confirmed -what you tell me of Lord Frederick Cavendish's
account: it is universally said that the Duke failed merely by inferiority, the French soldiers
behaving in general most scandalously.   They had fourscore pieces of cannon, but very ill
served.   Marshal D'Estr`ees was recalled before the battle, but did not  know it. He is said
to have made some great mistakes in the  action.  I cannot speak to the truth of it, but the
French are  reported to have demanded two millions sterling of Hanover. My whole letter will
consist of hearsays: for, even at so little distance from town, one gets no better news than
hawkers and pedlars retail about the country.  From such I  hear that George Haldane(816) is
made governor of Jamaica, and  that a Mr. Campbell, whose father lives in Sweden, is going
thither to make an alliance with that country, and hire twelve  thousand men.  If one of my
acquaintance, as an antiquary,  were alive, Sir Anthony Shirley,,(817) I suppose we should
send him to Persia again for troops; I fear we shall get none  nearer!

Adieu! my dearest Harry! Next to wishing your expedition still-born, my most constant thought
is, how to be of any service to poor Lady Ailesbury, whose reasonable concern makes even that
of the strongest friendship seem trifling.  Yours  most entirely.

(815) On the expedition to Rochfort.

(816) Brigadier-General Haldane.

(817) Sir Thomas, Sir Anthony, and Sir Robert Shirley, were three brothers, all great travellers,
and all distinguished by extraordinary adventures in the reigns of Queen Elizabeth and James I.

392 Letter 235 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, August 25, 1757.

I did not know that you expected the pleasure of seeing the Colonel so soon.  It is plain that
I did not solicit leave of absence for him; make him my many compliments.  I should have been
happy to have seen you and Mr. John, but must not regret it, as you were so agreeably prevented.
You are very particular, I can tell you, in liking Gray's Odes--but you  must remember that
the age likes Akenside, and did like Thomson! can the same people like both?  Milton was forced
to wait till the world had done admiring Quarles.  Cambridge told me t'other night that my
Lord Chesterfield heard Stanley read them as his own, but that must have been a mistake of
my lord's deafness.  Cambridge said, "Perhaps they are Stanley's; and not caring to own them,
he gave them to Gray."  I think  this would hurt Gray's dignity ten times more than his poetry
not succeeding.  My humble share as his printer has been more favourably received.  We proceed
soberly.  I must give you account of less amusements, des eaux de Strawberry.  T'other  day
my Lady Rochfort, Lady Townshend, Miss Bland,(818) and the knight of the garter dined here,
and were carried into the printing-office, and were to see the man print.  There were  some
lines ready placed, which he took off; I gave them to  Lady Townshend; here they are-

"The press speaks: >From me wits and poets their glory obtain; Without me their wit and their
verses were vain. Stop, Townshend, and let me but print what you say; You, the fame I on others
bestow, will repay."

They then asked, as I foresaw, to see the man compose: I gave him four lines out of the Fair
Penitent, which he set; but  while he went to place them in the press, I made them look at
something else without their observing, and in an instant he whipped away what he had just
set, and to their great surprise when they expected to see "Were ye, ye fair," he presented
to  my Lady Rochford the following lines:-

"The press speaks: In vain from your properest name you have flown, And exchanged lovely Cupid's
for Hymen's dull throne; By my art shall your beauties be constantly sung, And in spite of
yourself you shall ever be young."

You may imagine, whatever the poetry was, that the gallantry  of it succeeded.  Poor Mr. Bentley
has been at the extremity  with a fever, and inflammation in his bowels; but is so well  recovered
that Mr. Muntz is gone to fetch him hither to-day.   I don't guess what sight I have to come
in Hampshire, unless  it is Abbotstone.  I am pretty sure I have none to come at the  Vine,
where I have done nothing, as I see Mr. Chute will never  execute any thing.  The very altar-piece
that I sent for to  Italy is not placed yet.  But when he could refrain from making the Gothic
columbarium for his family, which I propose, and Mr. Bentley had drawn so divinely, it is not
probable he should do any thing else.  Adieu!

(818) Sister of the unfortunate Sir John Bland.  See ant&, p. 287, letter 157.-E.

393 Letter 236 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(819) Strawberry Hill, Thursday, Sept. 2, 1757.

Not being in town, there may be several more new productions, as the Grubbaea frutex blossoms
every day; but I send you all  I had gathered for myself, while I was there.  I found the pamphlet
much in vogue; and, indeed, it is written smartly.   My Lady Townshend sends all her messages
on the backs of these political cards; the only good one of which the two heads  facing one
another, is her son George's.  Charles met D'Abreu  t'other day, and told him he intended to
make a great many  speeches next winter; the first, said he, shall be to address  the King
not to send for any more foreign troops, but to send  for some foreign ministers.

My Lord Chesterfield is relapsed: he sent Lord Bath word lately, that be was grown very lean
and deaf: the other replied, that he could lend him some fat, and should be very glad at any
time to lend him an ear.

I shall go to town on Monday, and if I find any thing else  new, I will pack it up with a flower
picture for Lady Ailesbury, which I shall leave in Warwick-street, with orders to be sent to
you.  Adieu!

(819) Now first printed.

393 Letter 237 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 3, 1757.

having intended a journey into Warwickshire to see Lady Hertford while my lord is in Ireland,
and having accordingly ordered my letters thither, though without going, I did not receive
yours of the 22d till last week; and though you desired an immediate acknowledgment of it,
I own I did defer till I could tell you I had been at Linton,(820) from whence I returned yesterday.
I had long promised your brother a visit; the immediate cause was very melancholy, and I must
pass over  it rapidly-in short, I am going to place an urn in the church  there to our dear
Gal.! If I could have divested myself of  that thought, I should have passed my time very happily;
the  house is fine, and stands like the citadel of Kent; the whole  county is its garden. 
So rich a prospect scarce wants my  Thames.  Mr. and Mrs. Foote(821) are settled there, two
of the  most agreeable and sensible people I ever met.  Their eldest  boy has the finest countenance
in the world; your nephew Hory(822) was there too, and has a sweetness of temper, as if begot
between your brother and you, and not between him and  his Tusephone.  Your eldest brother
has not only established  your sister Foote there, which looks well, but dropped very  agreeable
hints about Hory.

Your letter has confirmed my satisfaction about your situation about which indeed I am easy.
I am persuaded you will remain  at Florence as long as King George has any minister there.
I  do not imagine that a recall obliges you to return home; whether you could get your appointments
continued is very different.  It is certainly far from unprecedented: nay, more than one have
received them at home--but that is a favour far beyond my reach to obtain.  Should there be
occasion, you must try all your friends, and all that have professed themselves  so; your Mr.
Pelham(823) might do something.  In the mean  time, neglect none of the ministers.  If you
could wind into a correspondence with Colonel Yorke,(824) at the Hague, he may  be of great
service to you.  That family is very Powerful: the eldest brother, Lord Royston,(825) is historically
curious and political: if without its appearing too forced, you could at  any time send him
uncommon letters, papers, manifestoes', and  things of that sort, it might do good service.
My dear child,  I can give you better advice than assistance: I believe I have  told you before,
that I should rather hurt you than serve you  by acting openly for you.

I told you in my last Admiral Boscawen's affair too strongly: he is not disgraced nor dismissed,
but seems to reckon himself both.  The story is far from exactly known: what I can sift  out
is, that he indulged himself in a great latitude in a most profitable station, was recalled
against his inclination, for the present expedition; not being easily met, a second commander
was appointed, whom it seems he did not much care to serve under at first.  He does not serve
at all, and his Boscawenhood is much more Boscawened; that is surely in the deepest shade.
The wind has blown so constantly west for  nearly three weeks, that we have not only received
no mails  from the continent, but the transports have been detained in  the Downs, and the
secret expedition has remained at anchor.   I have prayed it might continue, but the wind has
got to the  east to-day. Having never been prejudiced in favour of this  exploit, what must
I think of it when the French have had such  long notice?

We had a torrent of bad news yesterday from America, Lord Loudon has found an army of twenty-one
thousand French, gives over the design on Louisbourg, and retires to Halifax. Admiral Holbourn
writes, that they have nineteen ships to his seventeen, and he cannot attack them.  It is time
for England  to slip her own cables, and float away into some unknown ocean!

Between disgraces and an inflammation in my eyes, it is time  to conclude my letter.  My eyes
I have certainly weakened with using them too much at night.  I went the other day to Scarlet's
to buy green spectacles; he was mighty assiduous to give me a pair that would not tumble my
hair. "Lord! Sir,"  said I, "when one is come to wear spectacles, what signifies  how one looks?"

I hope soon to add another volume to your packet from my press.  I shall now only print for
presents; or to talk in a higher style, I shall only give my Louvre editions to privy-councillors
and foreign ministers.  Apropos! there is a book of this sacred sort which I wish I could by
your means procure: it is the account, with plates, of what has been  found at Herculaneum.
You may promise the King of Naples in  return all my editions.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

Sept. 4.

I had sealed this up, and was just sending it to London, when  I received yours of the 13th
of this month.  I am charmed with  the success of your campaign at Leghorn-a few such generals
or ministers would give a revulsion to our affairs.

You frighten me with telling me of innumerable copies taken of my inscription on the Pope's
picture: some of our bear-leaders will pick it up, send it over, and I shall have the horror
of seeing it in a magazine.  Though I had no scruple of sending  the good old man a cordial,
I should hate to have it published  at the tail of a newspaper, like a testimonial from one
of Dr. Rock's patients!  You talk of the Pope's enemies; who are  they? I thought at most he
could have none but at our bonfires on the fifth of November.

(820) In Kent, the seat of Edward Louisa Mann, brother of sir Horace.

(821) Sister of Sir Horace.

(822) Horace, only son of Galfridus Mann.

(823) Thomas. afterwards Lord Pelham.

(824) Sir Joseph Yorke, K. B. third son of the chancellor Hardwicke: created Lord Dover in
1788, and died without issue  in 1792.-E.

(825) Afterwards second Earl of Hardwicke.-D.

395 Letter 238 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 8, 1757.

How I laughed at your picture of the shrine of Notre Dame de Straberri, and of the vows hung
up there! I little thought  that when I converted my castle into a printing office, the  next
transformation Would be into an hospital for the "filles repenties" from Mrs. Naylor's and
Lady Fitzroy's.(826)  You  will treat the enclosed I trust with a little more respect;  not
for the sake of the hero, but of the poet.  The poet, poor  soul! has had a relapse, but is
again recovering.  As I know  no earthly history, you must accept the sonnet as if it was 
written into my letter; and therefore supposing this the end  of the third page, I bid you
good night.

(826) Elizabeth, daughter of Colonel Cosby, governor of New York, by Lucy Montagu, aunt of
George Montagu, and widow of  Lord Augustus Fitzroy; by whom she had two sons, Augusttis  Henry,
afterwards Duke of Grafton, and General Fitzroy, who  was created Lord Southampton.-E.

396 Letter 239 To The Right Hon. Lady Hervey.(827) Strawberry Hill, Sept. 13, 1757.

Madam, After all the trouble your ladyship has been so good as to  take voluntarily, you will
think it a little hard that I should presume to give you more; but it is a cause, Madam, in
which I know you feel, and I can suggest new motives to your ladyship's zeal.  In short, Madam,
I am on the crisis of losing Mademoiselle de l'Enclos's picture, or of getting both that and
her letters to Lady Sandwich.  I enclose Lord Sandwich's letter to me, which will explain the
whole.  Madame Greffini, I suppose, is Madame Graphigny;(828) whom some of  your ladyship's
friends, if not yourself, must know; and she  might be of use, if she could be trusted not
to detain so  tempting a treasure as the letters.  From the effects being  sealed up, I have
still hopes; greater, from the goodness your  ladyship had in writing before.  Don't wonder,
Madam, at my  eagerness: besides a good quantity Of natural impatience, I am  now interested
as an editor and printer.  Think what pride it  would give me to print original letters of
Ninon at Strawberry  Hill! If your ladyship knows any farther means of serving me,  of serving
yourself, good Mr. Welldone, as the widow Lackit  says in Oroonoko, I need not doubt your employing
them.  Your  ladyship and I are of a religion, with regard to certain saints, that inspires
more zeal than such trifling temptations as persecution and fagots infuse into bigots of other
sects.   I think a cause like ours might communicate ardour even to my  Lady Stafford.  If
she will assist in recovering, Notre Dame  des Amours, I will add St. Raoul(829) to my calendar.
I am  hers and your ladyship's most obedient and faithful humble  servant.

(827) Lady Hervey was only daughter of Brigadier-General Nicholas Lepel.  She was maid of honour
to Queen Caroline, and was one of the principal ornaments of her court.  In 1720, she was married
to John Lord Hervey, eldest son of John Earl of Bristol, by whom she had four sons and four
daughters.  She  died in September, 1768.  A collection of her Letters, with a  Memoir and
Illustrative Notes, by Mr. Croker, was published in  1821.-E.

(828) Madame de Graffigny, the author of "Lettres d'une Peruvienne," and several dramatic pieces.
She died in the following year.  A collection of her works, in four volumes,  was published
at Paris in 1788.-E.

(829) A favourite cat of Lady Stafford's.

396 Letter 240 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Sept. 20(830)

My dear Sir, I have been roving about Hampshire with Mr. Chute, and did not receive your very
kind note till yesterday, or I should certainly not have deferred a moment to thank you for
it, and to express my great concern for Miss Montagu's bad health.   You do me justice when
you reckon on my feeling most sincerely  for you: but let me ask why you will not bring her
to town?  She might not only have more variety of assistance, but it  would be some relief
to you: it must be dreadful, with your  tenderness and feeling, to have nobody to share and
divert  your uneasiness.

I did not, till on the road the day before yesterday, hear the catastrophe of poor Sir John
Bland, and the execrable villany, or, what our ancestors would have called, the humours of
Taaffe.  I am extremely sorry for Bland! He was very good-natured, and generous and well-bred;
but never was such infatuation - I can call it by no term but flirting away his fortune and
his life; he seemed to have no passion for play while he did it, nor sensibility when it ruined
him but I fear he had both! What judgments the good people in the city (I  mean the good in
their own style, moneyed) will construe upon White's, when two of the most remarkable members
have despatched themselves in nine months!

I shall be most sincerely glad to receive another letter to tell me that Miss Montagu mends:
you have both my most hearty wishes.  Yours ever.

(830) This letter is misplaced: the date of the year is 1755.-E.

397 Letter 241 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 29, 1757.

For how many years have I been telling you that your country was mad, that your country was
undone! It does not grow wiser; it does not grow more prosperous!  You can scarce have recovered
your astonishment at the suspension of arms(831) concluded near Stade.  How do you behave on
these lamentable occasions?  Oh! believe me, it is comfortable to have an island to hide one's
head in! You will be more surprised when you hear that it is totally disavowed here.  The clamour
is going to be extreme--no wonder, when Kensington is the headquarters of murmur.  The commander-in-chief
is recalled-- the late Elector(832) is outrageous.  On such an occasion you may imagine that
every old store of malice and hatred is ransacked: but you would not think that the general
is now accused of cowardice! As improbable as that is, I do not know whether it may not grow
your duty as a minister to believe it-and if it does, you must be sure not to believe, that
with all this tempest the suspension was dictated from hence.  Be that as it may, the general
is to be the sacrifice.  The difficulty will be extreme with regard to the Hessians, for they
are in English pay.  The King of Prussia will be another victim: he says we have undone him,
without mending our own situation.  He expected to beat the Prince de Soubize by surprise,
but he, like the Austrians, declined a battle, and now will be reinforced by Richelieu's army,
who is doomed to  be a hero by our absurdities.  Austrians, French, Russians,  Swedes, can
the King of Prussia not sink under all these! This suspension has made our secret expedition
forgot by all but us who feel for particulars.  It is the fashion now to believe it is not
against the coast of France; I wish I could believe so!

As if all these disgraces were foreign objects not worth attending to, we have a civil war
at home; literally so in  many counties.  The wise Lords, to defeat it, have made the Militia-bill
so preposterous that it has raised a rebellion. George Townshend, the promoter of it for popularity,
sees it  not only most unpopular in his own county, but his father, my  Lord Townshend, who
is not the least mad of your countrymen,  attended by a parson, a barber, and his own servants,
and in  his own long hair, which he has let grow, raised a mob against  the execution of the
bill, and has written a paper against it,  which he has pasted up on the doors of four churches
near him.   It is a good name that a Dr. Stevens has given to our present  situation, (for
one cannot call it a Government,) a Mobocracy. I come to your letters which are much more agreeable
subjects. I think I must not wish you joy of the termination of the Lorrain reign, you have
lately taken to them, but I congratulate the Tuscans.  Thank you extremely for the trouble
you have given yourself in translating my inscription, and for the Pope's letter: I am charmed
with his beautiful humility,  and his delightful way of expressing it.  For his ignorance 
about my father, I impute it to some failure of his memory.  I  should like to tell him that
were my father still minister, I  trust we should not make the figure we do--at least he and
England fell together! If it is ignorance, Mr. Chute says it  is a confirmation of the Pope's
deserving the inscription, as  he troubles his head so little about disturbing the peace of
others.  But our enemies need not disturb us-we do their business ourselves.  I have one, and
that not a little comfort, in my politics ; this suspension will at least prevent further hostilities
between us and the Empress-Queen, and that secures my dear you.

When I have done thinking of politics, and that is always in  an instant, unless such as you
and Mr. Conway are involved in  them, I am far from passing my time disagreeably.  My mind
is  of no gloomy turn, and I have a thousand ways of amusing myself.  Indeed of late I have
been terribly frightened lest I must give them all up; my fears have gone to extravagance;
do not wonder; my life is not quite irrational, and I trembled to think that I was growing
fit only to consort with dowagers. What an exchange, books and drawings, and every thing of
that sort, for cards!  In short, for ten weeks I have had such  pains in my eyes with the least
application, that I thought I  should lose them, at least that they would be useless.  I was
told that with reading and writing at night I had strained and  relaxed the nerves.  However,
I am convinced that though this  is partly the case, the immediate uneasiness came from a cold,
which I caught in the hot weather by giving myself Florentine  airs, by lying with my windows
open, and by lying on the ground without my waistcoat.  After trying forty 'you should  do
this's,'(833) Mr. Chute has cured me -with a very simple medicine: I will tell it you, that
you may talk to Dr. Cocchi and about my eyes too.  It is to bathe and rub the outsides  all
round, especially on the temples, with half a teaspoonful  of white spirit of lavender (not
lavender-water) and half of Hungary-water.  I do this night and morning, and sometimes in the
day: in ten days it has taken off all the uneasiness; I  can now read in a chaise, which I
had totally lost, and for  five or six hours by candle-light, without spectacles or candle-screen.
In short, the difference is incredible. Observe that they watered but little, and were less
inflamed; only a few veins appeared red, whereas my eyes were remarkably clear.  I do not know
whether this would do with any humour,  but that I never had.  It is certain that a young man
who for  above twelve years had studied the law by being read to, from  vast relaxation of
the nerves, totally recovered the use of  his eyes. I should think I tired you with this detail,
if I  was not sure that you cannot be tired with learning any thing  for the good of others.
As the medicine is so hot, it must  not be let into the eyes, nor I should think be continued
too  long.

I approve much of your letter to Mr. Fox; I will give it to  him at his return, but at present
he is on a tour.  How scrupulous you are in giving yourself the trouble to send me a copy--was
that needful? or are you not always full of attentions that speak kindness?  Your brother will
take care  to procure the vases when they come, and is inquiring for the liqueurs.

I am putting up a stone in St. Ann's churchyard for your old friend King Theodore; in short,
his history is too remarkable  to be let perish.  Mr. Bentley says that I am not only an antiquarian,
but prepare materials for future antiquarians.   You will laugh to hear that when I sent the
inscription to the vestry for the approbation of the ministers and churchwardens, they demurred,
and took some days to consider whether they should suffer him to be called King of Corsica.
Happily they have acknowledged his title! Here is the inscription; over it  is a crown exactly
copied from his coin:

"Near this place is interred Theodore King of Corsica, Who died in this perish Dec. 11, 1756,
Immediately after leaving the King's-Bench Prison, By the benefit of the Act of Insolvency.
In consequence of which he registered His Kingdom of Corsica For the use of his Creditors.
The Grave, great teacher, to a level brings heroes and beggars, galley-slaves and kings. But
Theodore this lesson learn'd, ere dead; Fate pour'd its lessons on his living head, Bestow'd
a kingdom and denied him bread.

I think that at least it cannot be said of me, as it was of  the Duke of Buckingham entombing
Dryden,

"And help'd to bury whom he help'd to starve."

I would have served him, if a King, even in a gaol, could he have been an honest man.  Our
papers say, that we are bustling about Corsica; I wish if we throw away our own liberty, that
we may at least help others to theirs!  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(831) Known by the appellation of the Convention of Closter-Severn, concluded by the Duke of
Cumberland with Marshal Richelieu; by which he agreed for himself and army not to serve again
against the French during the war.-D.

(832) George II.; he had ordered his son to make the capitulation, and then disavowed him.

(833) Sic, in MS.-D.

 400 Letter 242
To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(834)
Arlington Street, Saturday, Oct. 8, 1757.

My dearest Harry, But one person in the world may pretend to be so much overjoyed as I am at
your return.(835)  I came hither to-day, on purpose to learn about you; but how can you ask
me such a question, as do I think you are come too safe?  is this a time of day to question
your spirit?  I know but two things on earth I esteem more, your goodness and your sense. 
You cannot come into dispute; but by what I have picked up at my Lady Townshend's, I find there
is a scheme of distinguishing between the land and the sea.  The King has been told, that Sir
Edward Hawke had written, that, after waiting two days, he asked the officers how long it would
be before they took a resolution; That if they would not attack, he should carry the fleet
home.(836)  I should not entirely credit this report, if Mr. Keith, who was present, had not
dropped, in a dry way, that some distinction would be shown to Captain Howe and Captain Greaves.
What confirms my opinion is, that I have never received the letter you say you sent me by the
last express.  I suppose it is detained, till proper emissaries have made proper impressions;
but we will not let it pass so. If you had not bid me, I should not have given you this intelligence,
for your character is too sacred to be trifled with; and as you are invulnerable by any slanders,
it is proper you should know immediately even what may be meditated.

The Duke is expected every hour.  As he must not defend himself, his case will be harder than
yours.  I was to go to Bath on Monday, but will certainly not go without seeing you: let me
know your motions, and I will meet you any where.  As I know your scrupulousness about saying
any thing I say to you privately, I think it necessary. to tell you, that I don't mean to preclude
you from communicating any part of this letter to those with whom it may be proper for you
to consult; only don't let more weight be given to my intelligence than it deserves.  I have
told you exactly where and what I heard.  It may not prove so, but there is no harm in being
prepared.

(834) Now first printed.

(835) From the Expedition to Rochfort.  The expedition, under Sir Edward Hawke, sailed early
in September, and, on the 28th, attacked the Isle of Aix; after which it returned to Spithead,
without attempting to land the troops.-E.

(836) On the 22d, Mr. Beckford writes to Mr. Pitt. "I hear that Admiral Hawke says, the land-general
has acted in a very unbecoming manner, and will declare his sentiments to Parliament.  I hope
he will: that, if possible, the mystery may be unravelled.  I have often lamented the fatality
attending conjunct commands.  The French avoid them in all their expeditions; for rank is perfectly
settled among the land and sea officers, and the eldest commission carries the command."  Chatham
Correspondence, vol. i. p. 279.-E.

401 Letter 243 To The Earl Of Strafford. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 11, 1757.

My dear lord, You will have seen or heard that the fleet is returned.  They have brought home
nothing but one little island, which is a great deal more than I expected, having neither thought
so despicably of France, or so considerably of ourselves, as to believe they were exposed to
much damage.  My joy for Mr. Conway's return is not at all lessened by the clamour on this
disappointment.  Had he been chief commander, I should be very sure the nothing he had done
was all he could do.  As he was under orders, I wait with patience to hear his general's vindication.

I hope the Yorkists have not knocked out your brains for living in a county.  In my neighbourhood
they have insulted the Parliament in person.(837)  He called in the Blues, instead of piquing
himself on dying in his curule chair in the stable-yard at Ember-court.  So entirely have we
lost our spirit, that the standing army is forced to defend us against the people, when we
endeavour to give them a militia, to save them from a standing army; and that the representative
of the Parliament had rather owe his life to the Guards than die in the cause of a militia.
Sure Lenthall's ghost will come and pull him by the nose!

I hope you begin to cast a southward look, and that my lady's chickens and ducklings are old
enough to go to a day-school, and will not want her any longer.

My Lord Townshend and George are engaged in a paper-war against one another, about the militia.
That bill, the suspension at Stade, and the late expedition, which has cost millions, will
find us in amusements this winter.  It is lucky, for I despair of the Opera.  The Mattei has
sent certificates to prove that she is stopped by an inundation. The certificates I suppose
can swim.  Adieu, my dear lord!

(837) Mr. Onslow, the Speaker.

402 Letter 244 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 12, 1757.

I shall Write you but a short letter for more reasons than one--there are you blushing again
for your country! We have often behaved extravagantly, and often shamefully-this time we have
united both.  I think I will not read a newspaper this month, till the French have vented all
their mirth.  If I had told You two months ago that this magnificent expedition was designed
against Rochfort, would you have believed me? Yet we are strangely angry that we have not taken
it! The clamour against Sir John Mordaunt is at high-water-mark, but as I was the dupe of clamour
last year against one of the bravest of men,(838) I shall suspend my belief till all is explained.
Explained it will be somehow or other: it seems to me that we do nothing but expose ourselves
in summer, in order to furnish inquiries for the winter; and then those inquiries expose us
again.  My great satisfaction is, that Mr. Conway is not only returned safe, but that all the
world agrees that it is not his fault that he is SO.  He is still at Portsmouth to see the
troops disembark.  Hawke is come, and was graciously received.--poor Sir John Mordaunt, who
was sent for, was received -as ill.  I tell you no particulars of their campaign, for I know
it slightly, and will wait till I know it exactly.

The Duke came last night.  You will not hear much more of his affair: he will not do himself
justice, and it proves too gross, to be possible to do him injustice.

I think all the comfort we extract from a thousand bitter herbs, is, that the Russians are
gone back, gone precipitately, and as yet we don't know why.

I have received yours of the 17th of last month, and you may quiet your fears about posts:
we have received all that each has written, except my last, which could not be arrived at Florence
when yours came away.  Mine was of the 29th of last month, and had many particulars; I hope
not too many to stop its journey!

To add to the ill-humour, our papers are filled with the new loss of Fort William-Henry, which
covered New York.  That opulent and proud colony between their own factions and our folly is
in imminent danger; but I will have done--nay, if we lose another dominion.  I think I will
have done writing to you, I cannot bear to chronicle so many disgraces.  Adieu!

(838) Admiral Byng.

403 Letter 245 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 13, 1757.

If you have received mine of Tuesday, which I directed to Portsmouth, you will perceive how
much I agree with you.  I am charmed with your sensible modesty.  When I talked to you of defence,
it was from concluding that you had all agreed that the attempt(839) was impracticable, nay,
impossible; and from thence I judged that the ministry intended to cast the blame of a wild
project upon the officers.  That they may be a little willing to do that, I still think-but
I have the joy to find that it cannot be thrown on you.  As your friend, and fearing, if I
talked for you first, it would look like doubt of your behaviour, at least that you had bid
me defend you at the expense of your friends, I said not a word, trusting that your innocence
would break out and make its way.  I have the satisfaction to find it has already done so.
It comes from all quarters but your own, which makes it more honourable.  My Lady Suffolk told
me last night, that she heard all the seamen said they wished the general had been as ready
as Mr. Conway. But this is not all: I left a positive commission in town to have the truth
of the general report sent me without the least disguise: in consequence of which I am solemnly
assured that your name is never mentioned but with honour; that all the violence, and that
extreme, is against Sir John Mordaunt and Mr. Cornwallis.  I am particularly sorry for the
latter, as I firmly believe him as brave as possible.

This situation of things makes me advise, what I know and find I need not advise, your saying
as little as possible in your own defence, nay, as much as you can with any decency for the
others.  I am neither acquainted with, nor care a straw about, Sir John Mordaunt; but as it
is known that you differed with him, it will do you the greatest honour to vindicate him, instead
of disculpating yourself.  My most earnest desire always is, to have your character continue
as amiable and respectable as possible.  There is no doubt but the whole will come out, and
therefore your justification not coming from yourself will set it in a ten times better light.
I shall go to town to-day to meet your brother; and as I know his affection for you will make
him warm in clearing you, I shall endeavour to restrain that ardour, of which you know I have
enough on the least glimmering of a necessity: but I am sure you will agree with me, that,
on the representation I have here made to you, it is not proper for your friends to appear
solicitous about you.

The city talk very treason, and, connecting the suspension at Stade with this disappointment,(840)
cry out, that the general had positive orders to do nothing, in order to obtain gentler treatment
of Hanover.  They intend in a violent manner to demand redress, and are too enraged to let
any part of this affair remain a mystery.

I think, by your directions, this will reach you before you leave Bevismount: I would gladly
meet you at Park-place, if i was not sure of seeing you in town a day or two afterwards at
farthest; which I will certainly do, if you let me know. Adieu!

(839) On Rochfort.

(840) "In all these complicated machines," writes Lord Chesterfield to his son, on the 4th
of this month, "there are so many wheels within wheels, that it is always difficult and sometimes
impossible, to guess which of them gives direction to the whole.  Mr. Pitt is convinced that
the principal wheel, or if you will, spoke in the wheel, came from Stade."-E.

404 Letter 246 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct 18, 1757.

You never begged news at a worse time; for though I should tell you much, I have neither time
nor inclination, This sounds brusque, but I will explain it.  With regard to the expedition,
I am so far easy about Mr. Conway that he will appear with great honour, but it is not pleasant
to hear him complicated with others in the mean time.  He cannot speak till forced.  In short,
there are twenty delicacies not for a letter.  The big event is, the Duke's resignation.  He
is not so patient as Mr. Conway under unmerited reproach, and has thrown up every thing, regiment
and all.  You and I wish for a Fronde, but I don't expect one.  At worst it will produce M`emoires
de la Fronde.  I rejoice that all your family is well, and beg my compliments to them.  For
this time you must excuse a very short letter; I am only in town for this evening to meet Mr.
Conway, and I snatch a moment, that you might not think me neglectful of you, which I certainly
never will be. Adieu!

404 Letter 247 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Oct. 24, 1757.

It is impossible not to write to you upon the great event(841) that has happened, and yet it
is difficult to know how to write upon it.  Considering your situation, it is improper to make
harsh comments: Europe, I suppose, will not be so delicate.  Our ministers have kept the article
out of our own papers; but they have as little power over foreign gazettes, as weight with
foreign powers.  In short, the Duke is arrived, was very ill received, and without that, would
have done, what he did immediately, resign all his commissions.  He does not, like his brother,(842)
go into opposition.  He is even to make his Usual appearances.  He treated Munchausen,(843)
who had taken great liberties with his name, with proper severity--I measure my words extremely,
not for my own sake, but yours.

General Mordaunt has demanded an inquiry.  The form is not settled yet; nor can it be soon,
as Sir Edward Hawke is gone upon a cruise with the fleet.  I put a quick end to this letter;
I have no more facts to tell you; reflections you will make yourself.  In the uncertainty of
this reaching you, it is better to say no more.  Adieu!

(841) The Duke of Cumberland's resignation of the command of the army.

(842) Frederick Prince of wales.

(843) The minister for Hanover.

405 Letter 248 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Nov. 20, 1757.

I do not like to find that our correspondence is certainly deranged.  I have received but one
letter from you for a great while; it is of October 8th, and complaining on your side too.
You say my last was Sept. 3d.  Since that I wrote on the 29th, on the 13th, and 24th of last
month.  I have omitted a month, waiting to see if you got my letters, and to have something
decisive to tell you.  Neither has happened, and yet I know you will be unhappy not to hear
from me, which makes me write now.  Our Parliament was suddenly put off to the first of next
month), on news that the King Of Prussia had made a separate peace with France;- as the Speech
was prepared to ask money for him, it was necessary to set it to a new tune; but we have been
agreeably surprised with his gaining a great victory over the Prince de Soubize;(844) but of
this we have only the first imperfect account, the wind detaining his courier or aide-de-camp
on the other side still.  It is prodigious how we want all the good news we can amass together!
Our fleet dispersed by a tempest in America, where, into the bargain, we had done nothing,
the uneasiness on the convention at Stade, which, by this time, I believe we have broken, and
on the disappointment about Rochfort, added to the wretched state of our internal affairs;
all this has reduced us to a most contemptible figure.  The people are dissatisfied, mutinous,
and ripe for insurrections, which indeed have already appeared on the militia and on the dearness
of corn, which is believed to be owing to much villany in the dealers.  But the other day I
saw a strange sight, a man crying corn, "Do you want any corn?" as they cry knives and scissors.
To add to the confusion, the troubles in Ireland, which Mr. Conway had pacified, are broke
out afresh, by the imprudence of the Duke of Bedford and the ambition of the primate.(845)
The latter had offered himself to the former, who rejected him, meaning to balance the parties,
but was insensibly hurried into Lord Kildare's,(846) to please mr. Fox.  The primate's faction
have passed eleven resolutions on pensions and grievances, equal to any in 1641, and the Duke
of Bedford's friends dared not say a word against them.(847)  The day before yesterday a messenger
arrived from him for help; the council will try to mollify; but Ireland is no tractable country.
About what you will be more inquisitive, is the disappointment at Rochfort, and its consequences.
Sir John Mordaunt demanded an inquiry which the city was going to demand.  The Duke of Marlborough,
Lord George Sackville, and General Waldegrave have held a public inquest, with the fairness
of which people are satisfied; the report is not to be made to the King till to-morrow, for
which I shall reserve my letter.  You may easily imagine, that with all my satisfaction in
Mr. Conway's behaviour, I am very unhappy about him: he is more so; having guarded and gained
the most perfect character in the world by the severest attention to it, you may guess what
he feels under any thing that looks like a trial.  You will see him more like himself, in a
story his aide-de-camp, Captain Hamilton,(848) tells of him.  While they were on the isle of
Aix, Mr. Conway was so careless and so fearless as to be trying a burning-glass on a bomb--yes,
a bomb, the match of which had been cut short to prevent its being fired by any accidental
sparks of tobacco. Hamilton snatched the glass out of Mr. Conway's hand before he had at all
thought what he was about.  I can tell you another story of him, that describes all his thought
for others, while so indifferent about himself.  Being with my Lady Ailesbury in his absence,
I missed a favourite groom they used to have; she told me this story.  The fellow refused to
accompany Mr. Conway on the expedition, unless he would provide for his widow in case of accidents.
Mr. C., who had just made his will and settled his affairs, replied coolly, "I have provided
for her."  The man, instead of being struck, had the command of himself to ask how?  He was
told, she would have two hundred pounds.  Still uncharmed, he said it was too little! Mr. Conway
replied he was sorry he was not content; he could do no more; but would only desire him to
go to Portsmouth and see his horses embarked.  He refused.  If such goodness would make one
adore human nature, such ingratitude would soon cure one!

Mr. Fox was going to write to you, but I took all the compliments upon myself, as I think it
is better for you to be on easy than ceremonious terms.  To promote this, I have established
a correspondence between you; he will be glad if you will send him two chests of the best Florence
wine every year.  The perpetuity destroys all possibility of your making him presents Of it.
I have compounded for the vases, but he would not hear, nor must you think of giving him the
wine, which you must transact with your brother and me.  The best of Florence which puzzled
James and me so much, proves to be Lord Hertford's drams.  We have got something else from
Florence, not your brother James and I, but the public: here is arrived a Countess Rena, of
whom my Lord Pembroke bought such quantities of Florence, etc.  I shall wonder if he deals
with her any more, as he has the sweetest wife(849) in the world, and it seems to be some time
since La Comtessa was so.  Tell me more of her history; antique as she is, she is since my
time.. Alas! every thing makes me think myself old since I have worn out my eyes, which, notwithstanding
the cure I thought Mr. Chute had made upon them, are of very little use to me.  You have no
notion how it mortifies me: when I am wishing to withdraw more and more from a world of which
I have had satiety, and which I suppose is as tired of me, how vexatious not to be able to
indulge a happiness that depends only on oneself, and consequently the only happiness proper
for people past their youth! I have often deluded you with promises of returning to Florence
for pleasure, I now threaten you with it for your plague; for if I am to become a tiresome
old fool, at least it shall not be in my own country.  In the mean time, I must give you a
commission for my press.  I have printed one book, (of which two copies are ready for you and
Dr. Cocchi,) and I have written another - it is a Catalogue of the Royal and Noble Authors
of England.  Richard 1. it seems was, or had a mind to pass for, a Proven`cal poet; nay, some
of those compositions are extant, and you must procure them for me: Crescimbeni says there
are some in the library of San Lorenza at Florence, in uno de' Codici Provenzali, and others
nel 3204 della Vaticana.(850)  YOU Will oblige and serve me highly if you can get me copies.
Dr. Cocchi certainly knows Crescimbeni's Commentary on the Lives of the Proven`cal Poets.(851)

I shall wind up this letter, Which is pretty long for a blind man without spectacles, with
an admirable bon-mot.  Somebody asked me at the play the other night what was become of Mrs.
Woffington; I replied, she is taken off by Colonel Caesar. Lord Tyrawley said, "I suppose she
was reduced to aut Caesar aut Nullus."

The monument about which you ask you shall see in a drawing, when finished; it is a simple
Gothic arch, something in the manner of the columbaria: a Gothic columbarium is a new thought
of my own, of which I am fond, and going(852) to execute one at Strawberry.  That at Linton
is to have a beautiful urn, designed by Mr. Bentley, as the whole is, with this plain, very
true inscription, "Galfrido Mann, amicissimo, optimo, qui obiit--H. W. P."

Thank you for the King of Prussia's letter, though I had seen it before.  It is lively and
odd.  He seems to write as well with Voltaire as he fights as well without the French--or without
us.

Monday night.

The report is made, but I have not yet seen it, and this letter must go away this minute. 
I hear it names no names, says no reason appears why they did not land on the 25th, and gives
no merit to all Mr. Conway's subsequent proposals for landing.  Adieu!

(844) The battle of Rosbach.

(845) Dr. Stone, Archbishop of Armagh.

(846) Lady Kildare was sister of Lady Caroline Fox.

(847)) Walpole, in his Memoires of George II., states that "the Duke of Bedford, on the death
of the King's sister, the Queen Dowager of Prussia, who had privately received a pension of
eight Hundred pounds a-year out of the Irish establishment, had obtained it for his wife's
sister, Lady Waldegrave."-E.

(848) Afterwards Sir William Hamilton, appointed, in 1764, envoy to the court of Naples, where
he resided during the long period of thirty-six years; and where, "wisely diverting," in the
language of Gibbon, "his correspondence from the secretary of state to the Royal Society and
British Museum, he passed his time in elucidating a country of inestimable value to the naturalist
and antiquarian." He returned to England in 1800, and died in 1803.-E.

(849) Elizabeth, sister of the Duke of Marlborough.

(850) Walpole, in his Royal Authors, says, "I have had both repositories carefully searched.
The reference to the Vatican proves a new inaccuracy of the author; there is no work of King
Richard.  In the Laurentine library is a sonnet written by the King, and sent to the Princess
Stephanetta, wife of Hugh de Daux, which I have had transcribed with the greatest exactness."
Works, vol. i. p. 252.-E.

(851) "Commentarii intorno alla sua Istoria della Volgar Poesia."  In 1803, Mr. Matthias, the
author of the Pursuits of Literature, published an edition of the commentaries, detached from
the historical part, in three volumes, 12mo.-E.

(852) It was not executed.

408 Letter 249 To George Montagu, Esq. Sunday evening.

I leave Mr. M`untz in commission to do the honours of Strawberry to you: if he succeeds well,
will you be troubled with him in your chaise to london on Wednesday?

He will tell you the history of' Queen Mab being attacked-not in her virtue, but in her very
palace: if all this does not fill up the evening, and you shall have no engagement to your
aunt Cosby, or to your grandmother, you know how welcome you will be at Clivden.  Adieu!

408 Letter 250 To George Montagu, Esq. Dec. 23, 1757.

You, who have always cultivated rather than stifled tender sensations, well know how to feel
for me, who have at last lost my dear friend, Mr. Mann, not unexpectedly certainly; but I never
could find that one grew indifferent to what pains, as one does to what pleases one.  With
all my consciousness of having been more obliged to your brother than I could possibly deserve,
I think I should have trespassed on his kindness, and have asked him to continue his favours
to Mr. Mann's son and brother, if I had not known that he was good beyond doubt: it is just
necessary for me, as transferring my friendship to the family, to tell you, that if the contrary
should be insinuated, they do continue the business.

Had I any thing to tell you, it would be unpardonable in me to communicate my grief to you
and neglect your entertainment, but Mr. Pitt's gout has laid up the nation; we adjourn to-morrow
for the holidays, and have not had a single division.  Mr. Pitt, Mr. Fox, France, and the King
of Prussia will not leave us idle much longer.  Adieu!  I am most unaffectedly grieved, and
most unfeignedly yours.

409 Letter 251 To Dr. Ducarel.(853) Arlington Street, Dec. 25, 1757.

Sir, The Dean of Exeter(854) having showed me a letter in which you desire the name of the
MS. which contains the illumination I wished to see, I take the liberty of troubling you with
this. The book is called "The Dictes and Sayings of the Philosophers: translated out of Latyn
into Frenshe, by Messire Jehan de Jeonville; and from thence rendered into English, by Earl
Rivers."(855)--I am perfectly ashamed, Sir, of giving you so much trouble, but your extreme
civility and good-nature, and your great disposition to assist in any thing that relates to
literature, encouraged me to make my application to you; and the politeness with which you
received it I shall always acknowledge with the greatest gratitude.  The Dean desired me to
make his excuses to you for not writing himself; and my Lord Lyttelton returns you a thousand
thanks for your kind offers of communication, and proposes to wait on you himself and talk
those matters over with you.  I shall not fail of paying my respects to you on Friday next,
at one o'clock; and am, Sir, yours, etc.

(853) Dr. Andrew Coltee Ducarel.  This eminent arcaeologist was born at Caen in Normandy, but
educated at Eton and at Oxford.  He had recently been appointed librarian at Lambeth palace.-E.

(854) Dr.Jeremiah Milles. In 1765 he was appointed president of the Society of Antiquaries.
The Doctor was a strenuous advocate for the authenticity of Rowley's Poems; "thereby proving
himself," says the author of the Pursuits of Literature, "a pleasant subject for that chef-d'oeuvre
of wit and poetry, the 'Archaeological Epistle,' written by Mr. Mason."-E.

(855) Antony Widville, Earl Rivers, Lord Scales and Newsells. The dismal catastrophe of this
accomplished lord, in his forty-first year, is well known--

"--Rivers, Vaughan, and Grey Ere this lie shorter by the head at Pomfret."

The book is supposed to be the second ever printed in England by Caxton: it contains an illumination
representing the Earl introducing Caxton to Edward the Fourth, his Queen, and the Prince. 
"The most remarkable circumstance attending it," says Walpole, in his Noble Authors, "is the
gallantry of the Earl, who omitted to translate part of it, because it contained sarcasms of
Socrates against the fair sex."-E.

410 Letter 252 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan, 11, 1758.

You express so much concern and tenderness for Mr. Conway and me in your letter of Dec. 17th,
which I received two days ago, that I am impatient and happy to tell you, that after keeping
the report of the court-martial a week, the King yesterday approved the sentence, which is
a full acquittal of Sir John Mordaunt, and was unanimous.  If the commander-in-chief is so
fully cleared, what must the subordinate generals be? There are still flying whispers of its
being brought into Parliament in some shape or other, but every public and private reason,
I say reason, forbid it.  Sure this is not a season to relume heats, when tranquility is so
essential and so established! In a private light who can wish to raise such a cloud of enemies
as the whole army, who murmur grievously at hearing that an acquittal is not an acquittal;
who hold it tyranny, if they are not to be as safe by their juries as the rest of their fellow-subjects;
and who think a judgment of twenty-one general officers not to be trifled with.  I tremble
if any rashness drives the army to distinguish or think themselves distinguished from the civil
government.

You are by this time, I suppose, in weepers for princess Caroline;(856) though her state of
health has been so dangerous for years, and her absolute confinement for many of them, her
disorder was in a manner new and sudden, and her death unexpected by herself, though earnestly
her wish.  her goodness was constant and uniform, her generosity immense, her charities most
extensive--in short I, no royalist, could be lavish in her praise.  What will divert you is,
that the Duke of Norfolk's and Lord Northumberland's upper servants have asked leave to put
themselves in mourning, not out of regard for this admirable Princess, but to be more sur le
bon ton.  I told the Duchess I supposed they would expect her to mourn hereafter for their
relations.

Well, it seems I guessed better about Sir James Grey than he knew about himself.  Sir Benjamin
Keene is dead;(857) I dined to-day where Colonel Grey did; he told me it is a year and a half
since the King named his brother for Spain, and that he himself was told but yesterday that
Sir James was too well at Naples to be removed,(858) and that reasons of state called for somebody
else.  Would they called for you! and why not? You are attached to nobody; your dear brother
had as much reason to flatter himself with Mr. Pitt's favour, as he was marked by not having
Mr. Fox's.  Your not having the least connexion with the latter cannot hurt you.  Such a change,
for so great an object, would overrule all my prudence: but I do not know whether it were safe,
to hint it'. especially as by this time, at least before your application could come, it must
be disposed of.  Lord Rochfort wishes it, Lord Huntingdon has asked it; Lord Tyrawley and Lord
Bristol(859) are talked of.  I am so afraid of ticklish situations for you, that in case of
the latter's removal, I should scarce wish you Turin. I cannot quit this chapter without lamenting
Keene! my father had the highest opinion of his abilities, and indeed his late Negotiations
have been crowned with proportionate success.  He had great wit, agreeableness, and an indolent
good-humour that was very pleasing: he loved our dearest Gal.!

The King of Prussia is quite idle; I think he has done nothing this fortnight but take Breslau,
and Schweidnitz, and ten or a dozen generals, and from thirty to fifty thousand prisoners--
in this respect he contradicts the omne majus continet in se minus.  I trust he is galloping
somewhere or other with only a groom to get a victory.  Prince Ferdinand of Brunswick has galloped
a little from one: when we were expecting that he would drive the French army into the sea,
and were preparing to go to Harwich to see it, he turned back, as if he wanted to speak with
the King of Prussia.  In a street very near me they do not care to own this; but as my side
of Arlington Street is not ministerial, we plain-dealing houses speak our mind about it.  Pray,
do not you about that or any thing else; remember you are an envoy, and though you must not
presume to be as false as an ambassador, yet not a grain of truth is consistent with your character.
Truth is very well for such simple people as me, with my Fari quae sentiat, which my father
left me, and which I value more than all he left me; but I am errantly wicked enough to desire
you should lie and prosper. I know you don't like my doctrine, and therefore I compound with
you for holding your tongue.  Adieu! my dear child--shall we never meet! Are we always to love
one another at the discretion of a sheet of paper? I would tell you in another manner that
I am ever yours.

P. S. I will not plague you with more than a postscript on my eyes: I write this after midnight
quite at my ease; I think the greatest benefit I have found lies between old rum and elder-water,
(three spoonfuls of the latter to one of the former,) and dipping my head in a pail of cold
water every morning the moment I am out of bed.  This I am told may affect my hearing, but
I have too constant a passion for my eyes to throw away a thought on any rival.

(856) Third daughter of King George the Second; who died at St. James's on the 28th of December,
in the forty-fifth year of her age.-E.

(857) Sir Benjamin Keene died at Madrid on the 15th of December.  He was the eldest son of
Charles Keene, Esq. of Lynn, in Norfolk.  His remains were brought to England-, and buried
at Lynn, near those of his parents.-E.

(858) Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, in a letter to her daughter, dated Venice, April 3, says,
"Sir James Grey was universally esteemed during his residence here: but, alas! he is gone to
Naples.  I wish the maxims of Queen Elizabeth were revived, who always chose men whose birth
or behaviour would make the nation respected, people being apt to look upon them as a sample
of their countrymen.  If those now employed are so-- Lord have mercy upon us! How much the
nation has suffered by false intelligence, I believe you are very sensible of; and how impossible
it is to obtain truth either from a fool or a knave."  Works, Vol. iii. P. 155.-E.

(859) The Earl of Bristol was at this time British Minister at the court of Turin.  He was
appointed ambassador extraordinary to the court of Spain in the following June.-E.

411 Letter 253 To Dr. Ducarel. Arlington Street, January 12, 1758.

I have the pleasure to let you know, that his grace the Archbishop(860) has, with the greatest
politeness and goodness, sent me word, by the dean of Exeter, that he gives me leave to have
the illumination copied, on a receipt either at your chambers, or at my own house, giving you
a receipt for it.  As the former would be so inconvenient to me as to render this favour useless,
I have accepted the latter with great joy; and will send a gentleman of the exchequer, my own
deputy, to you, Sir@ on Monday next, with my receipt, and shall beg the favour of you to deliver
the MS. to him, Mr. Bedford.  I would wait On you myself, but have caught cold at the visit
I made you yesterday, and am besides going to Strawberry Hill, from whence I propose to bring
you a little print, which was never sold, and not to be had from any body else; which is, the
arms of the two Clubs at Arthur's;(861) a print exceedingly in request last year.  When I have
more leisure, for at this time of the year I am much hurried, I shall be able, I believe, to
pick you out some other curiosities; and am, Sir, etc.

(860) Dr. Matthew Hutton. He died in the following April, and was succeeded in the archbishopric
by Dr. Secker.

(861) Designed by Mr. Walpole's friend, Lord Edgecumbe, and engraved by Grinion.

412 Letter 254 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 9, 1758.

One would not have believed that I could so long have wanted something to form a letter; but
I think politics are gone into winter-quarters: Mr. Pitt is in bed with the gout, and the King
of Prussia writing sonnets to Voltaire; but his Majesty's lyre is not half so charming as his
sword: if he does not take care, Alexander will ride home upon his verses.  All England has
kept his birthday; it has taken its place in our calendar next to Admiral Vernon's(862) and
my Lord Blakeney's; and the people, I believe, begin to think that Prussia is some part of'
Old England.  We had bonfires and processions, illuminations and French horns playing out of
windows all night.

In the mean time there have been some distant grumblings of a war with Spain, which seem blown
over: a new Russian army in March has taken its place.  The Duke of Richelieu is said to be
banished for appropriating some contributions(863) to his own use: if he does not take care
to prove that he meant to make as extravagant a use of them as ever Marquis Catiline did, it
will be a very bourgeoise termination of such a gallant life!  By the rage of expense in our
pleasures, in the midst of such dearness and distress, one would think we had opportunities
of contributions too!  The simple Duke of St. Albans,(864) who is retired to Brussels for debt,
has made a most sumptuous funeral in public for a dab of five months old that he had by his
cookmaid.  But our glaring extravagance is the CONSTANT high price given for pictures: the
other day at Mr. Furnese's(865) auction a very small Gaspar sold for seventy-six guineas; and
a Carlo Maratti, which too I am persuaded was a Giuseppe Chiari, lord Egremont bought at the
rate of two hundred and sixty pounds.  Mr. Spencer(866) gave no less than two thousand two
hundred pounds for the Andrea Sacchi and the Guido from the same collection.  The latter is
of very dubious originality: my father, I think, preferred the Andrea Sacchi to his own Guido,
and once offered seven hundred pounds for it, but Furnese said, "Damn him, it is for him; he
shall pay a thousand."  There is a pewterer, one Cleeve, who some time ago gave one thousand
pounds for four very small Dutch pictures.  I know- but one dear picture not sold, Cooper's
head of Oliver Cromwell, an unfinished miniature; they asked me four hundred pounds for it!
But pictures do not monopolize extravagance; I have seen a little ugly shell called a Ventle-trap
sold for twenty-seven guineas.  However, to do us justice, we have magnificence too that is
well judged.  The Palmyra and Balbec are noble works to be undertaken and executed by private
men.(867)  There is now established a Society for the encouragement of Arts, Sciences, and
Commerce, that is likely to be very serviceable;(868) and I  was pleased yesterday with a very
grand seigneurial design of the Duke of Richmond,(869) who has collected a great many fine
casts of the best antique statues, has placed them in a large room in his garden, and designs
to throw it open to encourage drawing.  I have offered him to let my eagle be cast.

Adieu! If any thing happens, I will not, nor ever do wait for a regular interval Of Writing to you.

(862) On Admiral Vernon's taking Porto Bello in 1740, the populace of London celebrated his
birthday; and some doubts arising on the specific day, they celebrated it again, and I think
continued to do so for two or three subsequent years.

(863) He plundered the Electorate so indecently, that on his return to Paris having built a
pavilion in his garden, it was nicknamed le Pavillon d'Hanovre.

(864) The third Duke of that title.

(865) Henry Furness had been a lord of the treasury.  He was a friend of Lord Bath, and personally
an enemy to Sir Robert Walpole.

(866) John first Earl Spencer.

(867) Robert Wood, Esq. under secretary of state, Mr. Dawkins, and Mr. Bouverie.  For a notice
of these splendid works, see ant`e, p. 191, letter 89.-E.

(868) Mr. William Shipley, of Northampton, being persuaded that a society to give premiums,
in the manner of one in Ireland, would be highly beneficial to the country, came to London
several times in the year 1752 and 1753, and talked about it to Mr. Henry Baker, who was of
the same opinion, but doubted the possibility of bringing it into effect.  However, in 1753,
a general recommendation of such a society was drawn up, printed, and dispersed; and indefatigable
pains taken by Mr. Shipley to put it into the hands of persons of quality and fortune, this
scheme was carried into execution.  See Nichols's Lit. Anecdotes, vol. v. p. 275.-E.

(869) Charles Lenox, third Duke of Richmond.  His grace had recently ordered a room to be opened
at his house in Whitehall, containing a large collection of original plaster casts from the
best antique busts and statues at Rome -and Florence, to which all artists, and youths above
twelve years of age, had access. For the encouragement of genius, he also bestowed two medals
annually on those who executed the two best models.-E.

413 Letter 255 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 10, 1758.

This campaign does not open with the vivacity of the last; the hero of the age has only taken
Schweidnitz yet--he had fought a battle Or two by this time last year.  But this is the case
of Fame.  A man that astonishes at first, soon makes people impatient if he does not continue
in the same andante key.  I have heard a good answer of one of the Duke of Marlborough's generals,
who dining with him at a city feast, and being teased by a stupid alderman, who said to him,
"Sir, yours must be a very laborious employment!" replied, "Oh, no; we fight about four hours
in a morning, and two or three after dinner, and then we have all the rest of the day to ourselves."
I shall not be quite so impatient about our own campaign as I was last year, though we have
another secret expedition on foot--they say, to conquer France, but I believe we must compound
for taking the Isle of Wight, whither we are sending fourteen thousand men.  The Hero's uncle(870
reviewed them yesterday in Hyde Park on their setting out.  The Duke of Marlborough commands,
and is, in reality, commanded by Lord George Sackville.  We shall now see how much greater
generals we have than Mr. Conway, who has pressed to go in any capacity, and is not suffered!

Mr. Pitt is again laid up with the gout, as the Duke of Bedford is confined in Ireland by it.
- His grace, like other Kings I have known, is grown wonderfully popular there since he was
taken prisoner and tied hand and foot.  To do faction justice, it is of no cowardly nature;
it abuses while it attacks, and loads with panegyric those it defeats.  We have nothing in
Parliament but a quiet straggle for an extension of the Habeas Corpus.(871)  It passed our
House swimmingly, but will be drowned with the same ease in the House of Lords.  On the new
taxes we had an entertaining piece of pomp from the Speaker: Lord Strange (it was in a committee)
said, "I will bring him down from the gallery." and proposed that the Speaker should be exempt
from the place tax.  He came down, and besought not to be excepted--lord Strange persisted-so
did the Speaker.  After the debate, Lord Strange going out said, "Well, did I not show my dromedary
well?" I should tell you that one of the fashionable sights of the winter has been a dromedary
and camel, the proprietor of which has entertained the town with a droll variety of advertisements.

You would have been amazed, had you been here at Sir luke Schaub's auction of pictures.  He
had picked up some good old copies cheap when he was in Spain during the contentions there
between the houses of Austria and Bourbon, and when many grandees being confiscated, the rest
piqued themselves on not profiting of their spoils.  With these Sir Luke had some fine small
ones, and a parcel of Flemish, good in their way.  The late Prince offered him twelve thousand
pounds for the whole, leaving him the enjoyment for his life.  As he knew the twelve thousand
would not be forthcoming, he artfully excused himself by saying he loved pictures so much that
he knew he should fling away the money.  Indeed, could he have touched it, it had been well;
the collection was indubitably not worth four thousand pounds.  It has sold for near eight!(872)
A Copy(873) of the King of France's Raphael went for seven hundred pounds.  A Segismonda, called
by Corregio, but certainly by Furoni his scholar, was bought in at upwards of four hundred
pounds.  In short, there is Sir James Lowther, Mr. Spencer, Sir Richard Grosvenor, boys with
twenty and thirty thousand a-year, and the Duchess of Portland,(874) Lord Ashburnham, Lord
Egremont, and others with near as much, who care not what they give.  I want to paint my coat
and sell it off my back--there never Was such a season.  I am mad to have the Houghton pictures
sold now; what injury to the creditors to have them postponed, till half of these vast estates
are spent, and the other half grown ten years older!

Lord Corke Is not the editor of Swift's History;(875) but one Dr. Lucas, a physicianed apothecary,
who some years ago made such factious noise in Ireland(876)--the book is already fallen into
the lowest contempt. I wish you joy of the success of the Cocchi family; but how three hundred
crowns a year sound after Sir Luke Schaub's auction!  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(870) George II. uncle of the King of Prussia.

(871) Lord Chesterfield, in a letter to his son of the 8th, says, "Every thing goes smoothly
in Parliament: the King of Prussia has united all our parties in his support, and the Tories
have declared that they will give Mr. Pitt unlimited credit for this session: there has not
been one single division yet upon public points, and I believe will not."-E.

(872) The three days' sale produced seven thousand seven hundred and eighty-four pounds five
shillings.-E.

(873) It was purchased by the Duchess Dowager of Portland, for seven hundred and three pounds
ten shillings.-E.

(874) Lady Margaret Cavendish Harley, only daughter of Edward Harley, second Earl of Oxford,
and heiress of the vast possessions of the Newcastle branch of the Cavendishes.  In 1761, Dr.
Lucas was elected representative for Dublin.  He died in 1771, and a statue to his honour is
erected in the Royal Exchange of Dublin.-E.'

415 Letter 256 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 23, 1758.

Though the inactivity of our parliamentary winter has let me be correspondent, I am far from
having been so remiss as the posts have made me seem.  I remember to have thought that I had
no letter on board the packet that was taken; but since the 20th of November I have writ to
you on December 14, January 11, February 9.  The acquittal of General Mordaunt would, I thought,
make you entirely easy about Mr. Conway. The paper war on their subject is still kept up; but
all inquiries are at an end.  When Mr. Pitt, who is laid up with the gout, is a little cool
again, I think he has too much eagerness to perform something of `eclatt, to let the public
have to reproach him with not employing so brave a man and so able as Mr. Conway. Though your
brothers do not satisfy your impatience to know, you must a little excuse them; the eldest
lives out of the world, and James not in that world from whence he can learn or inform you.
Besides our dear Gal.'s warmth of friendship, he had innumerable opportunities of intelligence.
He, who lent all the world money for nothing, had at least a right to know something.

I shall be sorry on my account if one particular(877) letter has miscarried, in which I mentioned
some trifles that I wished to purchase from Stosch's collection.  As you do not mention any
approaching sale, I will stay to repeat them till you tell me that you have received no such
letter.

Thank you for the `eloge on your friend poor Cocchi; you had not told me of his death, but
I was prepared for it, and heard it from Lord Huntingdon.  I am still more obliged to you for
the trouble you have given yourself about King Richard.  You have convinced me of Crescimbeni's
blunder as to Rome.  For Florence, I must intreat you to send me 'another copy, for your copyist
or his original have made undecipherable mistakes; particularly in the last line; La Mere Louis
is impossible to be sense: I should wish, as I am to print it, to have every letter of the
whole sonnet more distinct and certain than most of them are.  I don't know how to repay you
for all the fatigue I give you.  Mr. Fox's urns are arrived, but not yet delivered from the
Custom-house.  You tell me no more of Botta;(878) is he invisible in dignity, like Richcourt;
or sunk to nothing, like our Poor old friend the Prince?(879)  Here is a good epigram on the
Prince de Soubize, with which I must conclude, writing without any thing to tell you, and merely
to show you that I do by no means neglect you;

Soubize, apr`es ses grands exploits, Peut b`atir un palais qui ne lui co`ute gu`ere; Sa Femme
lui fournit le bois, Et chacun lui jette la pierre.

(877) The letter of Dec. 17th, which was lost.

(878) Marshal Botta, commander at Florence for the Emperor Francis.

(879) The Prince de Craon, chief of the council, superseded by the Comte de Richcourt.

416 Letter 257 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 21, 1758.

Between my letters of Nov. 20th and Jan.  11th, which you say you have received, was one of
Dec.  11th lost, I suppose in the packet: what it contained, it is impossible for me to recollect;
but I conclude the very notices about the expedition, the want of which troubled you so much.
I have nothing now to tell you of any moment; writing only to keep up the chain of our 'correspondence,
and to satisfy you that there is nothing particular.

I forgot in my last to say a word of our East Indian hero, Clive, and his victories; but we
are growing accustomed to success again!  There is Hanover retaken!--if to have Hanover again
is to have success! We have no news but what is military; Parliaments are grown idle things,
or busy like quarter-sessions.  Mr. Pitt has been in the House of Commons but twice this winter,
yet we have some grumblings: a Navy-bill of Mr. George Grenville, rejected last year by the
Lords, and passed again by us, has by Mr. Fox's underhand management been made an affair by
the Lords; yet it will pass. An extension of the Habeas corpus, of forty times the consequence,
is impeded by the same dealings, and IS not likely to have so prosperous an issue.  Yet these
things scarce make a heat within doors, and scarce conversation without.

Our new Archbishop(880) died yesterday; but the church loses its head with as little noise
as a question is now carried or lost in Parliament.

Poor Sir Charles Williams is returned from Russia, having lost his Senses upon the road.  This
is imputed to a lady at Hamburgh, who gave him, or for whom he took some assistance to his
passion; but we hope he will soon recover.

The most particular thing I know is what happened the other day: a frantic Earl of Ferrars(881)
has for this twelvemonth supplied conversation by attempting to murder his wife, a pretty,
harmless young woman, and every body that took her part.  having broken the peace, to which
the House of Lords tied him last year, the cause was trying again there on Friday last.  Instead
of attending it, he went to the assizes at Hertford to appear against a highwayman, one Page,
of extraordinary parts and escapes.  The Earl had pulled out a pistol, but trembled so that
the robber turned, took it out of his hand quietly, and said, "My lord, I know you always carry
more pistols about you; give me the rest." At the trial, Page pleaded that my lord was excommunicated,
consequently could not give evidence, and got acquitted.(882)

There is just published Swift's History of the Four last Years of Queen Anne: Pope and Lord
Bolingbroke always told him it would disgrace him, and persuaded him to burn it.  Disgrace
him indeed it does, being a weak libel, ill-written for style, uninformed, and adopting the
most errant mob-stories.(883)  He makes the Duke of Marlborough a coward, Prince Eugene an
assassin, my father remarkable for nothing but impudence, and would make my Lord Somers any
thing but the most amiable character in the world, if unfortunately he did not praise him while
he tries to abuse.

Trevor(884) of Durham is likely to go to Canterbury.  Adieu!

(880) Archbishop Hutton.  He was succeeded by Secker.

(881) Laurence Shirley, fourth Earl of Ferrars, who, in January 1760, shot his land-steward,
for which he was tried in Westminster-hall, by his peers, in the following April, and executed
at Tyburn.-E.

(882) At the ensuing Rochester assizes he was tried for robbing a Mr. Farrington, and executed.-E.

(883) Swift himself, in his Journal to Stella, calls it "his grand business," and pronounced
it "the best work he had ever written."-E.

(884) Dr. Richard Trevor.  This did not happen.

418 Letter 258 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 14, 1758.

As you was disappointed of any intelligence that might be in it (I don't know what was), I
am sorry my letter of December 14th miscarried; but with regard to my commissions in Stosch's
collection, it did not signify, since they propose to sell it in such great morsels.  If they
are forced to relent, and separate it, what I wish to have, and had mentioned to you, were,
"his sculptured gems that have vases on them, of which he had a large ring box:" the following
modern medals, "Anglia resurges," I think, of Julius III.; "the Capitol; the Hugonotorum Strages;
the Ganymede, a reverse of a Pope's medal, by Michael Angelo; the first medal of Julius III.;"
all these were in silver, and very fine; then the little Florentine coin in silver, with Jesus
Rex noster on the reverse: he had, besides, a fine collection of drawings after nudities and
prints in the same style, but you may believe I am not old enough to give much for these. 
I am not very anxious about any, consequently am not tempted to purchase wholesale.

Thank you for the second copy of King Richard; my book is finished; I shall send it you by
the first opportunity.  I did receive the bill of lading for Mr. Fox's wine; and my reason
for not telling you how he liked his vases was, because I did not, nor do yet know, nor does
he; they are at Holland House, and will not be unpacked till he settles there: I own I have
a little more impatience about new things.

My letters will grow more interesting to you, I suppose, as the summer opens: we have had no
Winter campaign, I mean, no parliamentary war.  You have been much misinformed about the King's
health--and had he been ill, do you think that the recovery of Hanover would not cure him?
Yesterday the new convention with the King of Prussia was laid before the houses, and is to
be considered next week: I have not yet read it, and only know that he is to receive from us
two millions in three years, and to make no peace without us.  I hope he will make one for
us before these three years are expired.  A great camp is forming in the Isle of Wight, reckoned
the best spot for defence or attack.  I suppose both will be tried reciprocally;

Sir Charles Williams's disorder appears to have been lightheadedness from a fever; he goes
about again; but the world, especially a world of enemies, never care to give up their title
to a man's madness, and will consequently not believe that he is yet in his senses.(885)

Lord Bristol certainly goes to Spain; no successor is named for Turin.  You know how much I
love a prescriptive situation for you, and how I should fear a more eminent one--and yet you
see I notify Turin being open, if you should care to push for it. It is not to recommend it
to you that I tell you of it, but I think it my duty as your friend not to take upon me to
decide for you without acquainting you.

I rejoice at Admiral Osborn's Success.  I am not patriot enough to deny but that there are
captains and admirals whose glory would have little charms for me; but Osborn was a steady
friend of murdered Byng!

The Earl and Countess of Northumberland have diverted the town with a supper, which they intended
should make their court to my Lady Yarmouth; the dessert was a chasse at Herenhausen, the rear
of which was brought up by a chaise and six containing a man with a blue riband and a lady
sitting by him!  Did you ever hear such a vulgarism!  The person complimented is not half so
German, and consequently suffered martyrdom at this clumsy apotheosis of her concubinage.  Adieu!

(885) On hearing, at Padua, of Sir Charles's indisposition, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, in a
letter to her daughter, the Countess of Bute, on the 17th of July, breaks out into the following
striking reflections:--"I hear that my old acquaintance is much broken, both in his spirits
and constitution.  How happy might that man have been, if there had been added to his natural
and acquired endowments a dash of morality!  If he had known how to distinguish between false
and true felicity; and, instead of seeking to increase an estate already too large, and hunting
after pleasures that have made him rotten and ridiculous, he had bounded his desires of wealth,
and followed the dictates of his conscience! His servile ambition has gained him two yards
of red riband and an exile into a miserable country, where there is no society, and so little
taste, that I believe he suffers under a dearth of flatterers.  This is said for the use of
your growing sons, whom I hope no golden temptations will induce to marry women they cannot
love, or comply with measures they do not approve. All the happiness this world can afford
is more within reach than is generally supposed.  A wise and honest man lives to his own heart,
without that silly splendour that makes him a prey to knaves, and which commonly ends in his
becoming one of the fraternity." Works, vol. iii. p. 160.-E.

419 Letter 259 To The Rev. Dr. Birch. Arlington Street, May 4, 1758.

Sir, I thought myself very unlucky in being abroad when you were so good as to call here t'other
day.  I not only lost the pleasure of your company, but the opportunity of obtaining from you
(what however I will not despair of) any remarks you may have made on the many errors which
I fear you found in my book.(886) The hurry in which it was written, my natural carelessness
and insufficiency, must have produced many faults and mistakes.  As the curiosity of the world,
raised I believe only by the smallness Of the number printed, makes it necessary for me to
provide another edition, I should be much obliged to whoever would be enough my friend to point
out my wrong judgments and inaccuracies,--I know nobody, Sir, more capable Of both offices
than yourself, and yet I have no pretensions to ask so great a favour, unless your own zeal
for the cause of literature should prompt you to undertake a little of this task.  I shall
be always ready to correct my faults, never to defend them.

(886) " The Catalogue of Royal and Noble Authors," of which Walpole had just printed three
hundred copies, at the Strawberry Hill press.-E.

420 Letter 260 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, May 4, 1758.

You are the first person, I believe, that ever thought of a Swiss transcribing Welsh, unless,
like some commentator on the Scriptures, you have discovered great affinity between those languages,
and that both are dialects of the Phoenician.  I have desired your brother to call here to-day,
and to help us in adjusting the inscriptions.  I can find no Lady Cutts in your pedigree, and
till I do, cannot accommodate her with a coronet.

My book is marvellously in fashion, to my great astonishment. I did not expect so much truth
and such notions of liberty would have made their fortune in this our day.  I am preparing
an edition for publication, and then I must expect to be a little less civilly treated.  My
Lord Chesterfield tells every body that he subscribes to all my opinions; but this mortifies
me about as much as the rest flatter me I cannot, because it is my own case, forget how many
foolish books he has diverted himself with commending The most extraordinary thing I have heard
about mine is, that it being talked of at lord Arran's table, Doctor King, the Dr. King of
Oxford, said of the passage on my father; "It is very modest, very genteel, and VEry TRUE."
I asked my Lady Cardigan if she would forgive my making free with her grandmother;(887) she
replied very sensibly, "I am sure she would not have hindered any body from writing against
me; why should I be angry at any writing against her?"

The history promised you of Dr. Brown is this.  Sir Charles Williams had written an answer
to his first silly volume of the Estimate,(888) chiefly before he came over, but finished while
he was confined at Kensington.  Brown had lately lodged in the same house, not mad now, though
he has been so formerly.  The landlady told Sir Charles, and offered to make affidavit that
Dr. Brown was the most profane cursor and swearer that ever came into her house.  Before I
proceed in my history, I will tell you another anecdote of this great performer: one of his
antipathies is the Opera, yet the only time I ever saw him was in last Passion-week singing
the Romish Stabat mater with the Mingotti, behind a harpsichord at a great concert at my Lady
Carlisle's.  Well--in a great apprehension of Sir Charles divulging the story of his swearing,
Brown went to Dodsley in a most scurrilous and hectoring manner, threatening Dodsley if he
should publish any thing personal against him; abusing Sir Charles for a coward and most abandoned
man, and bidding Dodsley tell the latter that he had a cousin in the army who would call Sir
Charles to account for any reflections on him, Brown.  Stay; this Christian message from a
divine, who by the way has a chapter in his book against duelling, is not all: Dodsley refused
to carry any such message, unless in writing. The Doctor, enough in his senses to know the
consequences of this, refused; and at last a short verbal message, more decently worded, was
agreed on.  To this Sir Charles made Dodsley write down this answer: "that he could not but
be surprised at Brown's message, after that he Sir Charles, had, at Ranby's desire, sent Brown
a written assurance that he intended to say nothing personal of him--nay, nor should yet, unless
Brown's impertinence made it necessary."  This proper reply Dodsley sent: Brown wrote back,
that he should send an answer to Sir Charles himself; but bid Dodsley take notice, that printing
the works of a supposed lunatic might be imputed to the printer himself, and which he, the
said Doctor, should chastise.  Dodsley, after notifying this new and unprovoked insolence to
me, Fox, and Garrick, the one friend of Sir Charles, the other of Brown, returned a very proper,
decent, yet firm answer, with assurances of repaying chastisement of any sort.  Is it credible?
this audacious man sent only a card back, saying, "Footman's language I never return, J. Brown."
On the same card he tells Dodsley that he cannot now accept, but returns his present of the
two last volumes of his collection of poems, and assures him that they are not soiled by the
reading.  But the best picture of him is his own second volume, which beats all the Scaligers
and Scioppins's for vanity and insolent impertinence.  What is delightful; in the first volume
he had deified Warburton, but the success of that trumpery has made Warburton jealous, and
occasioned a coolness--but enough of this jackanapes.

Your brother has been here, and as he is to go to-morrow, and the pedigree is not quite finished,
and as you will be impatient, and as it is impossible for us to transcribe Welsh which we cannot
read without your assistance, who don't understand it neither, we have determined that the
Colonel should carry the pedigree to you; you will examine it and bring it with you to Strawberry,
where it can be finished under your own eye, better than it is possible to do without.  Adieu!
I have not writ so long a letter this age.

(887) Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough.

(888) Estimate of the Manners of the Times.  See ant`e, p. 232, letter 119.-E.

422 Letter 261 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, May 31, 1758.

This is rather a letter of thanks than of course, though I have received, I verily believe,
three from you since my last. Well, then, this is to thank you for them too--chiefly for that
of to-day, with the account of the medals you have purchased for me from Stosch, and those
your own munificence bestows on me.  I am ashamed to receive the latter; I must positively
know what you paid for the former; and beg they may all be reserved till a very safe opportunity.
The price for the Ganymede is so monstrous that I must not regret not having it--yet if ever
he should lower, I should still have a hankering, as it is one of the finest medals I ever
saw.  Are any of the others in silver? old Stosch had them so.  When any of the other things
I mentioned descend to more mortal rates, I would be sorry to lose them.

Should not you, if you had not so much experienced the contrary, imagine that services begot
gratitude?  You know they don't--Shall I tell you what they do beget?--at best, expectations
of more services.  This is my very case now--you have just been delivered of one trouble for
me--I am going to get you with twins--two more troubles.  In the first place, I shall beg you
to send me a case of liqueurs; in the next all the medals in copper of my poor departed friend
the Pope, for whom I am as much concerned as his subjects have reason to be. I don't know whether
I don't want samples of his coins, and the little pieces struck during the sede vacante.  I
know what I shall want, any authentic anecdotes of the conclave.  There! are there commissions
enough? I did receive the Pope's letter on my inscription, and the translation of the epitaph
on Theodore, and liked both much, and thought I had thanked you for them--but I perceive I
am not half so grateful as troublesome.

Here is the state of our news and politics.  We thought our foreign King(889) on the road to
Vienna: he is now said to be prevented by Daun, and to be reduced to besiege Olmutz, which
has received considerable supplies.  Accounts make Louisbourgh reduced to wait for being taken
by us as the easiest way of avoiding being starved.--In short, we are to be those unnatural
fowl, ravens that carry bread.  But our biggest of all expectations is from our own invasion
of France, which took post last Sunday; fourteen thousand landmen, eighteen ships of the line,
frigates, sloops, bombs, and four volunteers, Lord Downe, Sir James Lowther, Sir John Armitage,
and Mr. Delaval-- the latter so ridiculous a character, that it has put a stop to the mode
that was spreading.  All this commanded by Lord Anson, who has beat the French; by the Duke
of Marlborough, whose name has beaten them; and by Lord George Sackville, who is to beat them.
Every port and town on the coast of Flanders and France have been guessed for the object. 
It is a vast armament, whether it succeeds or is lost.

At home there are seeds of quarrels.  Pratt the attorney-general has fallen on a necessary
extension of the Habeas Corpus to private cases.  The interpreting world ascribes his motive
to a want of affection for my Lord Mansfield, who unexpectedly is supported by the late Chancellor,
the Duke of Newcastle, and that part of the ministry; and very expectedly by Mr. Fox, as this
is likely to make a breach between the united powers.  The bill passed almost unanimously through
our House.  It will have a very different fate in the other, where Lord Temple is almost single
in its defence, and where Mr. Pitt seems to have little influence.  If this should produce
a new revolution, you will not be surprised.  I don't know that it will; but it has already
shown how little cordiality subsists since the last.

I had given a letter for you to a young gentleman of Norfolk, an only son, a friend of Lord
Orford, and of much merit, who was going to Italy with Admiral Broderick.  He is lost in that
dreadful catastrophe of the Prince George--it makes one regret him still more, as the survivors
mention his last behaviour with great encomiums.

Adieu! my dear child! -when I look back on my letter, I don't know whether there would not
be more propriety in calling you my factor.

P. S. I cannot yet learn who goes to Turin: it was offered upon his old request, to my Lord
Orford but he has declined it.

(889) The King of Prussia.

423 Letter 262 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Arlington Street, June 4, 1758.

The Habeas Corpus is finished, but only for this year.  Lord Temple threatened to renew it
the next; on which Lord Hardwicke took the party of proposing to order the judges to prepare
a bill for extending the power of granting the writ in vacation to all the judges.  This prevented
a division; though Lord Temple, who protested alone t'other day, had a flaming protest ready,
which was to have been signed by near thirty.  They sat last night till past nine.  Lord Mansfield
spoke admirably for two hours and twenty-five minutes.  Except Lord Ravensworth and the Duke
of Newcastle, whose meaning the first never knows himself, and the latter's nobody else, all
who spoke spoke well: they were Lord Temple, Lord Talbot, Lord Bruce, and Lord Stanhope, for;
Lord Morten, Lord Hardwicke, and Lord Mansfield, against the bill.(890)  T'other day in our
House, we had Lady Ferrars' affair: her sister was heard, and Lord Westmoreland, who had a
seat within the bar.  Mr. Fox opposed the settlement; but it passed.

The Duke of Grafton has resigned.  Norborne Berkeley has converted a party of pleasure into
a campaign, and is gone with the expedition,(891) without a shirt but what he had on, and what
is lent him.  The night he sailed he had invited women to supper.  Besides him, and those you
know, is a Mr. Sylvester Smith.  Every body was asking, "But who is Sylvester Smith?" Harry
Townshend replied, "Why, he is the son of Delaval, who was the son of Lowther, who was the
son of Armitage, who was the son of Downe."(892)

The fleet sailed on Thursday morning.  I don't know why, but the persuasion is that they will
land on this side Ushant, and that we shall hear some events by Tuesday or Wednesday.  Some
believe that Lord Anson and Howe have different destinations. Rochfort, where there are twenty
thousand men, is said positively not to be the place.  the King says there are eighty thousand
men and three marshals in Normandy and Bretagne. George Selwyn asked General Campbell, if the
ministry had yet told the King the object?

Mademoiselle de l'Enclos is arrived,(893) to my supreme felicity.  I cannot say very handsome
or agreeable: but I had been prepared on the article of her charms.  I don't say, like Henry
VIII. of Anne of Cleves, that she is a Flanders mare, though to be sure she Is rather large:
on the contrary, I bear it as well as ever prince did who was married by proxy-and she does
not find me fricass`e dans de la neige."(894)  Adieu!

P. S. I forgot to tell you of another galanterie I have had, -a portrait of Queen Elizabeth
left here while I was out of town. The servant said it was a present, but he had orders not
to say from whom.

(890) Lord Bute thus bewails the fate of the bill, in a letter to Mr. Pitt of the same day:
"What a terrible proof was Friday, in the House of Lords, of the total loss of public spirit,
and the most supreme indifference to those valuable rights, for the obtaining which our ancestors
freely risked both life and fortune! These are dreadful clouds that hang over the future accession,
and damp the hopes I should otherwise entertain of that important day." Chatham Correspondence,
vol. i. p. 317.-E.

(891) The expedition against St. Maloes.

(892) All these gentlemen had been volunteers on successive expeditions to the coast of France.

(893) The portrait of ninon de l'Enclos.

(894) Madame de S`evign`e, in her letters to her daughter, reports that Ninon thus expressed
herself relative to her son, the Marquis de Sevign`e, who was one of her lovers.

424 Letter 263 To Dr. Ducarel. June, 1758.

I am very much obliged to you for the remarks and hints you sent me on my Catalogue.  They
will be of use to me; and any observations of my friends I shall be very thankful for, and
disposed to employ, to make my book, what it is extremely far from being, more perfect.  I
was very glad to hear, Sir, that the present Lord Archbishop of Canterbury has continued you
in an employment for which nobody is so fit, and in which nobody would be so useful.  I wish
all manner of success to, as well as continuance of, your labours; and am, etc. etc.

425 Letter 264 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Sunday morning, June 11, 1758.

This will not depart till to-morrow, by which time probably there will be more news, but I
am obliged to go into the country to-day, and would not let so much history set out, without
my saying a word of it, as I know you trust to no gazette but mine.  Last Thursday se'nnight
our great expedition departed from Portsmouth--and soon separated; lord Anson with the great
ships to lie before Brest, and Commodore Howe,(895) our naval hero, with the transports and
a million of small fry on the secret enterprise.  At one o'clock on Thursday night, alias Friday
morning a cutter brought advice that on Sunday night the transports had made land in Concalle
Bay, near St. Maloes, had disembarked with no opposition or loss, except of a boatswain and
two sailors, killed from a little fort, to which Howe was near enough to advise them not to
resist.  However, some peasants in it fired and then ran away.  Some prisoners have assured
our troops that there is no force within twenty leagues.  This may be apocryphal, a word which,
as I am left at liberty, I always interpret false.  It is plain, however, that we were not
expected at St. Maloes at least.  We are in violent impatience to hear the consequences--especially
whether we have taken the town, in which there is but one battalion, many old houses of wood,
and the water easily to be cut off.

If you grow wise and ask me with a political face, whether St. Maloes is an object worth risking
fourteen thousand of our best troops, an expense of fifty thousand pounds, and half of the
purplest blood of England, I shall toss up my head with an air of heroism and contempt, and
only tell you--There! there is the Duke Of Marlborough in the heart of France; (for in the
heroic dictionary the heart and the coast signify the same thing;) what would you have? Did
Harry V. or Edward III mind whether it was a rich town or a fishing town, provided they did
but take a town in France? We are as great as ever we were in the most barbarous ages, and
you are asking mercantile Questions with all the littleness of soul that attends the improvements
in modern politics!  Well! my dear child, I smile, but I tremble-. and though it is pleasanter
to tremble when one invades, than when one is invaded, I don't like to be at the eve even of
an Agincourt.  There are so many of my friends upon heroic ground, that I discern all their
danger through all their laurels. Captain Smith, aide-de-camp to Lord George Sackville, dated
his letter to the Duke of Dorset, "from his Majesty's dominions in France."  Seriously, what
a change is here!  His Majesty, since this time twelvemonth, had not only recovered his dominions
in Germany, but is on the acquiring foot in France.  What heads, what no heads must they have
in France!  Where are their Cardinals, their Saxes, their Belleisles?  Where are their fleets,
their hosts, their arts, their subsidies?  Subsidies, indeed!  Where are ours? we pay none,
or almost none, and are ten times greater than when we hired half Europe.  In short, the difference
of our situation is miraculous; and if we can but keep from divisions at home, and the King
of Prussia does not prosper too fast for us, we may put France and ourselves into situations
to prevent them from being formidable to us for a long season.  Should the Prussian reduce
too suddenly the Empress-Queen to beg and give him a secure peace, considering how deep a stake
he still plays for, one could not well blame his accepting it--and then we should still be
to struggle with France.

But while I am politicising, I forget to tell you half the purport of my letter--part indeed
you will have heard; Prince Ferdinand's passage of Rhine, the most material circumstance of
which, in my opinion, is the discovery of the amazing weakness of the French in their army,
discipline, councils, and conduct. Yesterday, as If to amuse us agreeably till we hear again
from St. Maloes, an express arrived of great conquests and captures which three of our ships
have made on the river Gambia, to the destruction of the French trade and settlements there.
I don't tell you the particulars, because I don't know them, and because you see them in the
gazette.  In one week we strike a medal with Georgius, Germanicus, Gallicus, Africanus.

Mr. M'Kinsy, brother of Lord Bute, has kissed hands for Turin; you remember him at Florence.
He is very well-bred, and you will find him an agreeable neighbour enough.

I have seen the vases at Holland-house, and am perfectly content with them: the forms are charming.
I assure you Mr. Fox and Lady Caroline do not like them less than I do.  Good night! am not
I a very humane conqueror to condescend to write so long a letter?

(895) Richard, after the death of his elder brother, Viscount Howe.

426 Letter 265 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. June 16, 1758, 2 o'clock noon.

Well, my dear Harry! you are not the only man in England who have not conquered France!(896)
Even Dukes of Marlborough have been there without doing the business.  I don't doubt but your
good heart has even been hoping, in spite of your understanding, that our heroes have not only
taken St. Maloes, but taken a trip cross the country to burn Rochefort, only to show how easy
it was.  We have waited with astonishment at not hearing that the French court was removed
in a panic to Lyons, and that the Mesdames had gone off in their shifts with only a provision
of rouge for a week.  Nay, for my part, I expected to be deafened with encomiums on my Lord
Anson's continence, who, after being allotted Madame Pompadour as his share of the spoils,
had again imitated Scipio, and, in spite of the violence of his temperament, had restored her
unsullied to the King of France.  Alack! we have restored nothing but a quarter of a mile of
coast to the right owners.  A messenger arrived in the middle of the night with an account
that we have burned two frigates and an hundred and twenty small fry; that it was found impossible
to bring up the cannon against the town; and that, the French army approaching the coast, Commodore
Howe, with the expedition of Harlequin as well as the taciturnity, re-embarked our whole force
in seven hours, volunteers and all, with the loss only of one man, and they are all gone to
seek their fortune somewhere else.  Well! in half a dozen more wars we shall know something
of the coast of France.  Last war we discovered a fine bay near Port l'Orient: we have now
found out that we know nothing of St. Maloes.  As they are popular persons, I hope the city
of London will send some more gold boxes to these discoverers.  If they send a patch-box to
Lord George Sackville, it will hold all his laurels.  As our young nobility cannot at present
travel through France, I suppose that is a method for finishing their studies.  George Selwyn
says he supposes the French ladies will have scaffolds erected on the shore to see the English
go by.  But I won't detain the messenger any longer; I am impatient to make the Duchess(897)
happy, who I hope will soon see the Duke returned from his coasting voyage.

The Churchills will be with you next Wednesday, and I believe I too; but I can take my own
word so little, that I will not give it you.  I know I must be back at Strawberry on Friday
night; for Lady Hervey and Lady Stafford are to be there with me for a few days from to-morrow
se'nnight.  Adieu!

(896) Alluding to the expedition against Rochefort, the year before, in which Mr. Conway was
second in command.

(897) Lady Mary Bruce, Duchess of Richmond, only child of the Countess of Ailesbury by    
her first marriage. She was at Park-place with her mother during the Duke of Richmond's absence,
who was a volunteer upon this expedition

427 Letter 266 To The Earl Of Strafford. Arlington Street, June 16, 1758.

My dear lord, Dear lord, I stayed to write to you, in obedience to your commands, till I had
something worth telling you.  St. Maloes is taken by storm.  The Governor leaped into the sea
at the very name of the Duke of Marlborough.  Sir James Lowther put his hand into his pocket,
and gave the soldiers two hundred and fifty thousand pounds to drink the King's health on the
top of the great church.  Norborne Berkeley begged the favour of the Bishop to go back with
him and see his house in Gloucestershire. Delaval is turned capuchin, with remorse, for having
killed four thousand French with his own hand. Commodore Howe does nothing but talk of what
he has done. Lord Downe, who has killed the intendant, has sent for Dupr`e(898) to put in his
place; and my Lord Anson has ravished three abbesses, the youngest of whom was eighty-five.
Sure, my lord, this account is glorious enough! Don't you think one might 'bate a little of
it?  How much will you give up?  Will you compound for the town capitulating, and for threescore
men of war and two hundred privateers burned in the harbour? I would fain beat you down as
low as I could. What, if we should not have taken the town? Shall you be very much shocked,
if, after burning two ships of fifty-four and thirty-six guns, and a bushel of privateers and
smallware, we had thought it prudent to leave the town where we found it, and had re-embarked
last Monday in seven hours, (the despatch of which implies at least as much precipitation as
conduct,) and that of all the large bill of fare above, nothing should be true but Downe's
killing the intendant; who coming out to reconnoitre, and not surrendering, Downe, at the head
of some grenadiers, shot him dead.  In truth, this is all the truth, as it came in the middle
Of the night; and if your lordship is obstinately bent on the conquest of France, you must
wait till we have found another loophole into it, which it seems our fleet is gone to look
for.  I fear it is not even true that we have beat them in the Mediterranean!  nor have I any
hopes but in Admiral Forbes, who must sail up the Rhone, burn Lyons, and force them to a peace
at once.

I hope you have had as favourable Succession of sun and rain as we have. I go to Park-place
next week, where I fancy I Shall find our little Duchess(899) quite content with the prospect
of recovering her Duke, without his being provided with laurels like a boar's head.  Adieu!
my dear lord.  My best compliments to my lady and her whole menagerie.

(898) A French master.

(899) of richmond.

428 Letter 267 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, June 18, 1758.

I write to you again so soon, only to laugh at my last letter. What a dupe was I! at my years
to be dazzled with glory! to be charmed with the rattle of drums and trumpets, till I fancied
myself at Cressy or Poictiers!  In the middle of all this dream of conquest, just when I had
settled in what room of my castle I would lodge the Duke of Alen`con or Montpensier, or whatever
illustrious captive should be committed to the custody of Seneschal Me, I was awakened with
an account of our army having re-embarked, after burning some vessels at St. Maloes.  This
is the history, neither more nor less, of this mighty expedition. They found the causeway broken
up, stayed from Tuesday night till Monday morning in sight of the town; agreed it was impregnable;
heard ten thousand French (which the next day here were erected into thirty thousand) were
coming against them; took to their transports, and are gone to play at hide and seek somewhere
else.  This campaign being rather naked, is coloured over with the great damage we have done,
and with the fine disposition and despatch made for getting away--the same colours that would
serve to paint pirates or a flight. However, the city is pleased; and Mr. Pitt maintains that
he never intended to take St. Maloes, which I believe, because when he did intend to have Rochefort
taken last year, he sent no cannon; this year, when he never meant to take St. Maloes, he sent
a vast train of artillery.  Besides, one of the most important towns in France, lying some
miles up in the country, was very liable to be stormed; a fishing town on the coast is naturally
impracticable.  The best side of the adventure is, that they were very near coming away without
attempting the conflagration, and only thought of it by chance--then indeed

Diripuere focos-- Atqui omnis facibus Pubes accingitur atris.

Perhaps the metamorphosis in Virgil of the ships into mermaids is not more absurd than an army
of twelve or thirteen thousand of the flower of our troops and nobility performing the office
of link-boys, making a bonfire, and running away!  The French have said well, "les Anglois
viennent nous casser des vitres avec des guin`ees."(900)  We have lost six men, they five,
and about a hundred vessels, from a fifty-gun ship to a mackerel-boat.

I don't only ask my own pardon for swelling out my imagination, but yours, for making you believe
that you was to be representative of the Black Prince or Henry V. I hope you had sent no bullying
letter to the conclave on the (,authority of my last letter, to threaten the cardinals, that
if they did not elect the Archbishop of Canterbury Pope, you would send for part of the squadron
from St. Maloes to burn Civita Vecchia.  I had promised you the duchy of Bretagne, and we have
lost Madras!

Our expedition is still afloat--whither bound, I know not; but pray don't bespeak any more
laurels; wait patiently for what they shall send you from the Secretary's office.

I gave your brother James my new work to send you-I grieve that I must not, as usual, send
a set for poor Dr. Cocchi.  Good night!

(900) "Mr. Pitt's friends exult on the destruction of three French ships of war, and one hundred
and thirty privateers and trading ships, and affirm that it stopped the march of three score
thousand men, who were going to join the Comte de Clermont's army.  On the other hand, Mr.
Fox and company call it breaking windows with guineas, and apply the fable of the mountain
and the mouse." Lord Chesterfield.-E.

430 Letter 268 To Sir David Dalrymple.(901) Strawberry Hill, June 29, 1758.

Sir, Inaccurate and careless, as I must own my book is,(902) I cannot quite repent having let
it appear in that state, since it has procured me so agreeable and obliging a notice from a
gentleman whose approbation makes me very vain.  The trouble you have been so good as to give
yourself, Sir, is by no means lost upon me; I feel the greatest gratitude for it, and shall
profit not only of your remarks, but with your permission of your very words, wherever they
will fall in with my text.  The former are so judicious and sensible, and the latter so well
chosen, that if it were not too impertinent to propose myself as an example, I should wish,
Sir, that you would do that justice to the writers of your own country, which my ignorance
has made me execute so imperfectly and barrenly.

Give me leave to say a few words to one or two of your notes. i should be glad to mention more
instances of Queen Elizabeth's fondness for praise,(903) but fear I have already been too diffuse
on her head.  Bufo(904) is certainly Lord Halifax: the person at whom you hint is more nearly
described by the name of Bubo, and I think in one place is even called Bubb.(905)  The number
of volumes of Parthenissa I took from the list of Lord Orrery's(906) writings in the Biographia:
it is probable, therefore, Sir, that there were different editions of that romance.  You will
excuse my repeating once more, Sir, my thanks for your partiality to a work so little worthy
of your favour.  I even flatter myself that whenever you take a journey this way, you will
permit me to have the honour of being acquainted with a gentleman to whom I have so particular
an obligation.

(901) Now first collected.  This eminent lawyer, antiquary, and historian was born in 1726.
He was educated at Eton, and afterwards studied civil law at Utrecht.  In 1748, he was called
to the Scotch bar, and in 1766 made a judge of session, when he assumed the name of Lord Hailes.
Boswell states, that Dr. Johnson, in 1763, drank a bumper to him "as a man of worth, a scholar,
and a wit." His "Annals of Scotland" the Doctor describes as "a work which has such a stability
of dates, such a certainty of facts, and such a punctuality of citation, that it must always
sell." He wrote several papers in the World and Mirror.  He died in 1792.-E.

(902) The Royal and Noble Authors.-E.

(903) Queen Elizabeth, who had turned Horace's Art of Poetry into English, having been offended
with Sir Francis Bacon, the Earl of Essex, to recommend him again to favour, artfully told
her, that his suit was not so much for the good of Bacon, as for her own honour, that those
excellent translations of hers might be known to those who could best judge of them.-E.

(904) In Pope's Prologue to the Satires--

"Proud as Apollo on his forked hill, Sat full-blown Bufo puff'd by many a quill."-E.

(905) Bubb Dodington--

"And then for mine obligingly mistakes The first lampoon Sir Will, or Bubo makes."-E.

(906) Roger Boyle, Earl of Orrery.  His Parthenissa, a romance in six books, appeared in folio
in 1677.

431 Letter 269 To John Chute, Esq. Strawberry Hill, June 29, 1758.

The Tower-guns have sworn through thick and thin that Prince Ferdinand has entirely demolished
the French, and the city-bonfires all believe it.  However, as no officer is yet come, nor
confirmation, my crackers suspend their belief.  Our great fleet is stepped ashore again near
Cherbourg; I suppose, to singe half a yard more of the coast.  This is all I know; less, as
you may perceive, than any thing but the Gazette.

What is become of Mr. Montagu? Has he stolen to Southampton, and slipped away a-volunteering
like Norborne Berkeley, to conquer France in a dirty shirt and a frock?  He might gather forty
load more of laurels in my wood.  I wish I could flatter myself that you would come with him.

My Lady Suffolk has at last entirely submitted her barn to our ordination.  As yet it is only
in Deacon;s orders; but will very soon have our last imposition of hands.  Adieu! Let me know
a word of you.

431 Letter 270 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 6, 1758.

You may believe I was thoroughly disappointed in not seeing you here, as I expected.  I grieve
for the reason, and wish you had told me that your brother was quite recovered.  Must I give
you over for the summer? sure you are in my debt.

That regiments are going to Germany is certain; which, except the Blues) I know not.  Of all
secrets I am not in any Irish ones.  I hope for your sake, your Colonel(907) is not of the
number; but how can you talk in the manner you do of Prince Ferdinand! Don't you know that,
next to Mr. Pitt and Mr. Delaval, he is the most fashionable man in England?  Have not the
Tower-guns, and all the parsons in London, been ordered to pray for him? You have lived in
Northamptonshire till you are ignorant that Hanover is in Middlesex, as the Bishop's palace
at Chelsea is in the diocese of Winchester.  In hopes that you will grow better acquainted
with your own country, I remain your affected Horatius Valpolhausen.

(907) Mr. Montagu's brother.

432 Letter 271 To The Rev. Dr. Birch. Arlington Street, July 8, 1758.

Sir, As you have been so good as to favour me with your assistance, I flatter myself you will
excuse my begging it once more.  I am told that you mentioned to Dr. Jortin a Lord Mountjoy,
who lived in the reign of Henry VIII. as an author.  Will you be so good as to tell me any
thing you know of him, and what he wrote.  I shall entreat the favour of this notice as soon
as possibly you can; because my book is printing off, and I am afraid of being past the place
where he must come in.  I am just going out of town, but a line put into the Post any night
before nine o'clock will find me next morning at Strawberry Hill.

432 Letter 272 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(908) Arlington Street, July 8, 1758.

You have made me laugh; do you think I found much difficulty to persist in thinking as well
of you as I used to do, though you have neither been so great a Poliorcetes as Almanzor, who
could take a town alone, nor have executed the commands of another Almanzor, who thought he
could command the walls of a city to tumble down as easily as those of Jericho did to the march
of Joshua's first regiment of Guards? Am I so apt to be swayed by popular clamour.  But I will
say no more on that head.  As to the wording of the sentence, I approve your objection; and
as I have at least so little of the author in me as to be very corrigible, I will, if you think
proper, word the beginning thus:--

"In dedicating a few trifles(909) to you, I have nothing new to tell the world.  My esteem
still accompanies your merit, on which 'it was founded, and to which, with such abilities as
mine, I can only bear testimony; I must not pretend to vindicate it.  If your virtues," etc.
It shall not be said that I allowed prejudice and clamour to be the voice of the world against
you.  I approve, too, the change of "proposed" for "would have undertaken;" but I cannot like
putting in "prejudice and malice."  When One accuses others of malice, one is a little apt
to feel it; and if I could flatter myself that such a thing as a Dedication would have weight,
or that any thing of mine would last, I would have it look as dispassionate as possible.  When
after some interval I assert coolly that you was most wrongfully blamed, I shall be believed.
If I seem angry, it will look like a party quarrel still existing.

Instead of resenting your not being employed in the present follies, I think you might write
a letter of thanks to my Lord Ligonier, Or to Mr. Pitt, or even to the person who is appointed
to appoint generals himself,(910) to thank them for not exposing you a second year.  All the
puffs in the newspapers cannot long stifle the ridicule which the French will of course propagate
through all Europe on the foolish figure we have made.  You shall judge by one sample: the
Duc d'Aiguillon has literally sent a vessel with a flag of truce to the Duke of Marlborough,
with some teaspoons which, in his hurry, he left behind him.  I know the person who saw the
packet before it was delivered to the Blenheimeius.  But what will you say to this wise commander
himself? I am going to tell you no secret, but what he uttered publicly at the levee.  The
King asked him, if he had raised great contributions? "Contributions, Sir! we saw nothing but
old women." What becomes of the thirty thousand men that made them retire with such expedition
to their transports? My Lord Downe, as decently as he can, makes the greatest joke of their
enterprise, and has said at Arthur's, that.,five hundred men posted with a grain of common
sense would have cut them all to pieces.  I was not less pleased at what M. de Monbagon, the
young prisoner, told Charles Townshend t'other day at Harley's: he was actually at Rochfort
when you landed, where he says they had six thousand men, most impatient for your approach,
and so posted that not one of you would ever have returned.  This is not an evidence to be forgot.

Howe and Lord George Sackville are upon the worst terms, as the latter is with the military
too.  I can tell you some very curious anecdotes when I see you; but what I do not choose,
for particular reasons, to write.  What is still more curious, when Lord George kissed hands
at Kensington, not a word was said to him.

How is your fever? tell me, when you have a mind to write, but don't think it necessary to
answer my gazettes; indeed I don't expect it.

(908) Now first printed.

(909) The little Volume of Fugitive Pieces, printed this year at the Strawberry Hill press.

(910) The King.-E.

433 Letter 273 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, July 8, 1758.

If you will not take Prince Ferdinand's victory at Crevelt in full of all accounts, I don't
know what you will do--autrement, we are insolvent.  After dodging about the coasts of Normandy
and Bretagne, our armada is returned; but in the hurry of the retreat from St. Maloes, the
Duke of Marlborough left his silver teaspoons behind.  As he had generously sent back an old
woman's finger and gold ring, which one of our soldiers had cut off, the Duc d'Aiguillon has
sent a cartel-ship with the prisoner-spoons.  How they must be diverted with this tea-equipage,
stamped with the Blenheim eagles! and how plain by this sarcastic compliment what they think
of US! Yet We fancy that we detain forty thousand men on the coast from Prince Clermont's army!
We are sending nine thousand men to Prince Ferdinand; part, those of the expedition: the remainder
are to make another attempt; perhaps to batter Calais with a pair of tea-tongs.

I am sorry for the Comte de la Marche, and much more sorry for the Duc de Gisors.(911)  He
was recommended to me when he was in England; I knew him much, and thought as well of him as
all the world did.  He was graver, and with much more application to improve himself, than
any young Frenchman of quality I ever saw.  How unfortunate Belleisle is, to have outlived
his brother, his only son, and his hearing! You will be charmed with an answer of Prince Ferdinand
to our Princess Gouvernante of Holland.(912)  She wrote by direction of the States to complain
of his passing over the territories of the Republic. He replied, "That he was sorry, though
he had barely crossed over a very small corner of their dominions; and should not have trespassed
even there, if he had had the same Dutch guides to conduct him that led the French army last
year to Hanover."

I congratulate 'you on your regale from the Northumberlands. How seldom people think of all
the trouble and expense they put you to--I amongst the rest!  Apropos, if they are not bespoken,
I will not trouble you for the case of drams.  Lord Hertford has given me some of his; the
fashion is much on the decline, and never drinking any myself, these will last me long enough
and considering that I scarce ever give you a commission, but somehow or other ends at your
expense, (witness the medals you gave me of your own,) it is time for me to check my pen that
asks so flippantly.  As I am not mercenary, I cannot bear to turn you to account; if I was,
I should bear it very easily: but it is ridiculous to profit of one's friends, when one does
not make friendships with that view.

Methinks you don't make a Pope very fast.  The battle of Crevelt has restored him a little,
or the head of our church was very declining.  He said the other day to Lady Coventry in the
drawing-room, "Don't look at me, I am a dismal figure; I have entirely lost one eye."Adieu!

(911) Only son of Marshal Belleisle; he was killed at the battle of Crevelt: the Comte de la
Marche was not.

(912) Anne, eldest daughter of George II. and Princess Dowager of Orange.

434 Letter 274 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, July 21, 1758.

Your gazette, I know, has been a little idle; but we volunteer gazettes, like other volunteers,
are not easily tied down to regularity and rules.  We think we have so much merit, that we
think we have a right to some demerit too; and those who depend upon us, I mean us gazettes,
are often disappointed, A common-foot newspaper may want our vivacity, but is ten times more
useful.  Besides, I am not in town, and ten miles out of it is an hundred miles out of it for
all the purposes of news . You know, of course, that Lord George Sackville refused to go a-buccaneering
again, as he called it; that my friend Lord Ancram, who loves a dram of any thing, from glory
to brandy, is out of order; that just as Lord Panmure was going to take the command,@e missed
an eye; and that at last they have routed out an old General Blighe from the horse armoury
in Ireland, who is to undertake the codicil to the expedition.  Moreover, you know that Prince
Edward is bound 'prentice to Mr. Howe.(913)  All this you have heard; yet, like my cousin the
Chronicle, I repeat what has been printed in every newspaper of the week, and then finish with
one paragraph of spick and span.  Alack! my postscript is not very fortunate: a convoy of twelve
thousand men, etc. was going to the King of' Prussia, was attacked unexpectedly by five thousand
Austrians, and cut entirely to pieces; provisions, ammunition, etc. all taken. The King instantly
raised the siege, and retreated with so much precipitation, that he was forced to nail up sixty
pieces of cannon.  I conclude the next we hear of him will be a great victory-. if he sets
over night in a defeat, he always rises next morning in a triumph--at least, we that have nothing
to do but expect and admire, shall be extremely disappointed if he does not.  Besides, he is
three months debtor to Fame.

The only private history of any freshness is, my Lady Dalkeith's christening; the child had
three godfathers: and I will tell you why: they had thought of the Duke of Newcastle, my Lord
and George Townshend: but of two Townshends and his grace, God could not take the word of any
two of them, so all three were forced to be bound.

I draw this comfort from the King of Prussia's defeat, that it may prevent the folly of another
expedition: I don't know how or why, but no reason is a very good one against a thing that
has no reason in it.  Eleven hundred men are ill from the last enterprise.  Perhaps Don William
Quixote(914) and Admiral Amadis(915) may determine to send them to the Danube: for, as no information
ever precedes their resolutions, and no impossibilities ever deter them, I don't see why the
Only thing worthy their consideration should not be, how glorious and advantageous an exploit
it would be, if it could be performed. Why did Bishop Wilkins try to fly? Not that he thought
it practicable, but because it would be very convenient.  As he did not happen to be a particular
favourite of the city of London, he was laughed at: they prepossessed in his favour, and he
would have received twenty gold boxes, though twenty people had broken their neck off St. Paul's
with trying the experiment.

I have heard a whisper, that you do not go into Yorkshire this summer.  Is it true? It is fixed
that I go to Ragley(916) on the 13th of next month; I trust you do so too.  have you had such
deluges for three weeks well counted, as we have?  If I had not cut one of my perroquet's wings,
and there were an olive-tree in the country, I would send to know where there is a foot of
dry land.

You have heard, I suppose,--if not, be it known to you,--that Mr. Keppel, the canon of Windsor,
espouses my niece Laura; yes, Laura.(917)  I rejoice much; so I receive your compliments upon
if, lest you as it sometimes happens, forget to make them. Adieu!

July 22.

For the pleasure of my conscience I had written all the above last night, expecting Lord Lyttelton,
the Dean, and other company, This morning I receive yours; and having already told you all
I know, I have only a few paragraphs to answer.

I am pleased that you are pleased about my book:(918) you shall see it very soon; though there
will scarce be a new page: nobody else shall see it till spring.  In the first place, the prints
will not be finished: in the next, I intend that two or three other things shall appear before
it from my press, of other authors; for I will not surfeit people with my writings, nor have
them think that I propose to find employment alone for a whole press--so far from it, I intend
to employ it no more about myself.

I will certainly try to see you during your waiting.,' Adieu!

(913) In the preceding month, Prince Edward had been appointed a midshipman, and in July embarked
on board the Essex, commanded by Lord Howe, upon the expedition against Cherburg.-E.

(914) William Pitt, secretary of state.

(915) Lord Anson, first lord of the admiralty.

(916) The seat of the Earl of Hertford.

(917) the eldest daughter of Sir Edward Walpole.

(918) Anecdotes of Painting.

(919) As groom of the bedchamber to the King.

(920) The Rev. Henry Zouch was the elder brother of Dr. Thomas Zouch, better known in the literary
world.  Henry principally dedicated himself to the performance of his duties as a clergyman,
a country gentleman and a magistrate; in all which characters he was highly exemplary.  He
published several works connected with these avocations, particularly on the management of
prisons, and on other points of police.  He had, also, earlier days, been a poet; and these
letters show that he was well acquainted with the literary history and antiquities of his country.
Having lived in close intimacy and friendship with Mr. Walpole's friend and correspondent,
William Earl of Strafford, it is probable that through him he became interested in Mr. Walpole's
pursuits, and disposed to contribute that assistance towards the perfection of the "Catalogue
of Royal and Noble authors," which is so justly acknowledged by Mr. Walpole.  Mr. Zouch died
at the family seat of sandall, in Yorkshire, of which parish he was also vicar, in June, 1795;
leaving his friend and kinsman, the Earl of lonsdale, his executor, by whose favour these letters
are now given to the public.  The exact time of his birth is not ascertained; but as he was
an A. B. of Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1746, he probably was born about 1725.-C.  [Mr.
Walpole's Letters to the Rev. Henry Zouch first appeared in the year 1805, edited by the Right
Honourable John Wilson Croker; to whose notes the initial C. is affixed.]

(921) The "Catalogue of Royal and Noble Authors," originally published by Mr. Walpole in 1758.
Mr. Zouch appears to have commenced the correspondence on the occasion of this publication.
The author of the Catalogue received much of the same kind of assistance as was given to him
by Mr. Zouch; but as editor, Mr. Park, says, "it would seem that Lord Orford was more thankful
for communications tendered, than desirous to let the contents of them be seen."-C.

(922) It is probable that Mr. Zouch objected to Mr. Walpole's assertion, that the illumination
prefixed to a manuscript in Lambeth library, of Earl Rivers's translation of "The Dictes and
Sayings of the Philosophers, by Jehan de Teonville," represented the Earl introducing Caxton
to Edward IV.  Mr. Zouch seems to have very properly doubted whether Caxton would wear the
clerical habit, as the figure referred to in that illumination does; and Mr. Walpole replies
to that doubt.  Upon the same subject, Mr. Cole says, qu. how Lord Orford came to know the
kneeling figure in a clerical habit, was Caxton the printer?  He is certainly a priest, as
is evident from his tonsure, but I do not think that Caxton was in orders.  I should rather
suppose that it was designed for Jehan de Teonville, provost of Paris."-C.

(923) Mr. Walpole did make this promised statement in the following note: "King Richard had
long been dead; I suppose it is only meant that Lord Cobham disclaimed obedience to the house
of Lancaster, who had usurped the throne of King Richard and his right heirs."-C.

(924) He was married on the 15th of January, 1477-8, in the fourth year of his age.-C.

(925) In a subsequent edition Mr. Walpole recites the title of this letter, "Epistola exhortatoria
missa ad Nobilitatem ac Plebem universumque Populum Regni Scotiae," printed in 4to. at London,
1548; and he adds, this might possibly be composed by some dependant.  We do not exactly see
the grounds of Walpole's assertion, that the Lord Protector Somerset "could not write any thing
like classic Latin;": although we admit that his having been chancellor of Cambridge is not
conclusive evidence upon this subject; and that it is probable that the letter was written
by his secretary.-C.

(926) "The Art of Metals, in which is declared the manner of their generation."  Albara Alonzo
Barba was curate of St. Bernard's in Potosi.  This work, which contains a great deal of practical
information on mining, has also been translated into German and French.  The English editions
are very scarce, and a republication might be desirable in this age of mining adventure.-C.

(927) Second son of the great Lord Clarendon.  Mr. Walpole makes no mention of this preface,
but Mr. Park seems to have entertained the same idea as Mr. Zouch, as he says, "His lordship
merits honourable notice in the present work, as the conceived author of a preface to the first
edition of his noble father's history, which abounds with dignified sentiment and filial reverence."-C.

439 Letter 276 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Strawberry Hill, August 12, 1758.

Sir, It were a disrespect to your order, of which I hope you think me incapable, not to return
an immediate answer to the favour of your last, the engaging modesty of which would raise my
esteem if I had not felt it before for you.  I certainly do not retract my desire of being
better acquainted with you, Sir, from the knowledge you are pleased to give me of yourself.
Your profession is an introduction any where; but, before I learned that, you will do me the
justice to observe, that your good sense and learning were to me sufficient recommendation;
and though, in the common intercourse of the world, rank and birth have their proper distinctions,
there is certainly no occasion for them between men whose studies and inclinations are the
same.  Indeed, I know nothing that gives me any pretence to think any gentlemen my inferior.
I am a very private person myself, and if I have any thing to boast from my birth, it is from
the good understanding, not from the nobility of my father.  I must beg, therefore, that, in
the future correspondence, which I hope we shall have, you will neither show me, nor think
I expect, a respect to which I have no manner of title, and which I wish not for, unless it
would enable me to be of service to gentlemen of merit, like yourself.  I will say no more
on this head, but to repeat, that if any occasion should draw you to this part of England,
(as I shall be sorry if it is ill health that has carried you from home,) I flatter myself
you will let me have the satisfaction and, for the last time of using so formal a word, the
honour of seeing you.

In the mean time, you will oblige me by letting me know how I can convey my Catalogue to you.
I ought, I know, to stay till I can send you a more correct edition; but, though the first
volume is far advanced, the second may profit by your remarks. If you could send me the passage
and the page in Vardus, relating to the Earl of Totness, it would much oblige ne; for I have
only the English edition; and as I am going a little journey for a week, cannot just now get
the Latin.

You mention, Sir, Mr. Thoresby's museum: is it still preserved entire?

I would fain ask you another question, very foreign to any thing I have been saying, but from
your searches into antiquity, you may possibly, Sir, be able to explain what nobody whom I
have consulted hitherto can unravel.  At the end of the second part of the p. 105, in the folio
edition, is a letter from Henry VIII. to the Cardinal Cibo, dated from our palace, Mindas,
10th July, 1527.  In no map, topographical account, or book of antiquity, can I possibly find
such house or place as Mindas.(928)

(928) See this corrected as a typographical mistake, post, p. 455.-C.

440 Letter 277 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Aug. 12, 1758.

It is not a thousand years since I wrote to you, is it?--nay, if it is, blame the King of Prussia,
who has been firing away his time at Olmutz; blame Admiral Howe, who never said a word of having
taken Cherbourg till yesterday.--Taken Cherbourg!-- yes, he has--he landed within six miles
of it on the 6th, saw some force, who only stayed to run away; attacked a fort, a magazine
blew up, the Guards marched against a body of French, who again made fools of them, pretending
to stand, and then ran away--and then, and then, why, then we took Cherbourg.  We pretended
to destroy the works. and a basin that has just cost two millions.  We have not lost twenty
men.  The City of London, I suppose, is drinking brave Admiral Howe's and brave Cherbourg's
health; but I miss all these festivities by going into Warwickshire tomorrow to Lord Hertford.
In short, Cherbourg comes very opportunely: we had begun to grow peevish at Louisbourg not
being arrived, and there are some(929) people at least as peevish that Prince de Soubize has
again walked into Hanover after having demolished the Hessians.  Prince Ferdinand, who a fortnight
ago was as great a hero as if he had been born in Thames Street, is kept in check by Monsieur
de Contades, and there are some little apprehensions that our Blues, etc., will not be able
to join him.  Cherbourg will set all to rights; the King of Prussia may fumble as much as he
pleases, and though the French should not be frightened out of their senses at the loss of
this town, we shall be fully persuaded they are, and not a gallon less of punch will be drunk
from Westminster to Wapping.

I have received your two letters of July 1st and 7th, with the prices of Stosch's medals, and
the history of the new pontificate.  I will not meddle with the former, content with and thanking
you much for those you send me; and for the case of liqueurs, which I don't intend to present
myself with, but to pay you for.

You must, I think, take up with this scrap of a letter; consider it contains a conquest.  If
I wrote any longer, before I could finish my letter, perhaps I should hear that our fleet was
come back again, and, though I should be glad they were returned safely, it diminishes the
lustre of a victory to have a tame conclusion to it-without that, you are left at liberty to
indulge vision--Cherbourg is in France, Havre and St. Maloes may catch the panic, Calais my
be surprised, that may be followed by a battle which we may gain; it is but a march of a few
days to Paris, the King flies to his good allies the Dutch for safety, Prince Edward takes
possession of the Bastile in his brother's name, to whom the King, content with England and
Hanover--alas! I had forgot that he has just lost the latter.-Good night!

Sunday morning.

Mr.  Conway, who is just come in to carry me away, brings an account of an important advantage
gained by a detachment of six battalions of Hanoverians, who have demolished fourteen of the
French, and thereby secured the magazines and a junction with the English.

(929) The King.

441 Letter 278 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Aug. 20, 1758.

After some silence, one might take the opportunity of Cherbourg(930) and Louisbourg(931) to
revive a little correspondence with popular topics; but I think you are no violent politician,
and I am full as little so; I will therefore tell you of what I of course care more, and I
am willing to presume you do too; that is, myself.  I have been journeying much since I heard
from you; first to the Vine, where I was greatly pleased with the alterations; the garden is
quite beautified and the house dignified.  We went over to the Grange, that sweet house of
my Lord Keeper's(932) that you saw too.  The pictures are very good, and I was particularly
pleased with the procession, which you were told was by Rubens, but is certainly Vandyke's
sketch for part of that great work, that he was to have executed in the Banqueting-house. 
You did not tell me of a very fine Holbein, a woman, who was evidently some princess of the
White Rose.

I am just now returned from Ragley, which has had a great deal done to it since I was there
last.  Browne(933) has improved both the ground and the water, though not quite to perfection.
This is the case of the house: where there are no striking faults, but it wants a few Chute
or Bentley touches.  I have recommended some dignifying of the saloon with Seymours and Fitzroys,
Henry the Eighths and Charles the Seconds.  They will correspond well to the proudest situation
imaginable.  I have already dragged some ancestors out of the dust there, written their names
on their portraits; besides which, I have found and brought up to have repaired an incomparable
picture of Van Helmont by Sir Peter Lely.--But now for recoveries---think what I have in part
recovered! Only the state papers, private letters, etc., etc., of the two Lords Conway,(934)
secretaries of state.  How you will rejoice and how you will grieve!  They seem to have laid
up every scrap of paper they ever had. from the middle of Queen Elizabeth's reign to the middle
of Charles the Second's.  By the accounts of the family there were whole rooms full; all which,
during the absence of the last and the minority of the present lord, were by the ignorance
of a steward consigned to the oven and the uses of the house.  What remained, except one box
that was kept till almost rotten in a cupboard, were thrown loose into the lumber room; where,
spread on the pavement, they supported old marbles and screens and boxes.  From thence I have
dragged all I could, and, have literally, taking all together, brought away a chest near five
feet long, three wide, and two deep, brim full.  Half are bills, another part rotten, another
gnawed by rats; yet I have already found enough to repay my trouble and curiosity, not enough
to satisfy it.  I will only tell you of three letters of the great Strafford and three long
ones of news of Mr. Gerrard, master of the Charter-house; all six written on paper edged with
green, like modern French paper.  There are handwritings of every body, all their seals perfect,
and the ribands with which they tied their letters.  The original proclamations of Charles
the First, signed by the privy council; a letter to King James from his son-in-law of Bohemia,
with his seal; and many, very many letters of negotiation from the Earl of Bristol in Spain,
Sir Dudley Carleton, Lord Chichester, and Sir Thomas Roe.--What say you? will not here be food
for the press?

I have picked up a little painted glass too, and have got a promise of some old statues, lately
dug up, which formerly adorned the cathedral of Litchfield.  You see I continue to labour in
my vocation, of which I can give you a comical instance:--I remembered a rose in painted glass
in a little village going to Ragley, which I remarked passing by five years ago; told Mr. Conway
on which hand it would b, and found it in the very spot. I saw a very good and perfect tomb
at Alcester of Sir Fulke Greville's father and mother, and a wretched old house with a very
handsome gateway of stone at Colton, belonging to Sir Robert Throckmorton.  There is nothing
else tolerable but twenty-two coats of the matches of the family in painted glass.--You cannot
imagine how astonished a Mr. Seward,(935) a learned clergyman, was, who came to Ragley while
I was there.  Strolling about the house, he saw me first sitting on the pavement of the lumber
room with Louis, all over cobwebs and dust and mortar; then found me in his own room on a ladder
writing on a picture; and half an hour afterwards lying on the grass in the court with the
dogs and the children, in my slippers and without my hat.  He had had some doubt whether I
was the painter or the factotum of the family; but you would have died at his surprise when
he saw me walk into dinner dressed and sit by Lady Hertford.  Lord Lyttelton was there, and
the conversation turned on literature: finding me not quite ignorant added to the parson's
wonder; but he could not contain himself any longer, when after dinner he saw me go to romps
and jumping with the two boys; he broke out to my Lady Hertford, and begged to know who and
what sort of man I really was, for he had never met with any thing of the kind.  Adieu!

(930) About the middle of this month General Blighe had landed with an army on the coast of
France, near Cherbourg, destroyed the basin, harbour, and forts of that place, and re-embarked
his troops without loss.

(931) Alluding to the surrender of Louisbourg and the whole island of Cape Breton on the coast
of North America to General Amherst and Admiral Boscawen.

(932) Lord Keeper Henley, in 1761 made lord chancellor, and in 1764 created Lord Northington.-E.

(933) Capability Browne.  See vol. ii. p. 112, letter 46.-E.

(934) Sir Edward Conway, secretary of state to James the First, created Baron Conway in 1624;
and Edward Conway, his grandson, secretary of state in the reign of Charles the Second, 1679,
created Earl of Conway.-E.

(935) The Rev.  Thomas Seward, canon residentiary of Lichfield, and father of Ann Seward the
poetess.-E.

443 Letter 279 To John Chute, Esq.(936) Arlington Street, August 22, 1758.

By my ramble into Warwickshire I am so behindhand in politics, that I don't know where to begin
to tell you any news, and which by this time would not be news to you.  My table is covered
with gazettes, victories and defeats which have come in such a lump, that I am not quite sure
whether it is Prince Ferdinand or Prince Boscawen that has taken Louisbourg, nor whether it
is the late Lord Howe or the present that is killed at Cherbourg.  I am returning to Strawberry,
and shall make Mr. M`untz's German and military sang-froid set the map in my head to rights.

I saw my Lord Lyttelton and Miller at Ragley; the latter put me out of all patience.  As he
has heard me talked of lately, he thought it not below him to consult me on ornaments for my
lord's house. I, who know nothing but what I have purloined from Mr. Bentley and you, and who
have not forgotten how little they tasted your real taste and charming plan, was rather lost.--To
my comfort, I have seen the plan of their hall; it is stolen from Houghton, and mangled frightfully:
and both their eating-room and salon are to be stucco, with pictures.

I have not time or paper to give you a full account of' a vast treasure that I have discovered
at Lord Hertford's, and brought away with me.  If I were but so lucky as to be thirty years
older, i might have been much luckier.  In short, I have got the remains of vast quantities
of letters and state papers of the two Lords Conway, secretaries of state--forty times as many
have been using for the oven and the house, by sentence of a steward during my lord's minority.
Most of what I have got are gnawed by rats, rotten, or not worth a straw: and yet I shall save
some volumes of what is very curious and valuable--three letters of Mr. Gerrard, of the Charter-house,
some of Lord Strafford, and two of old Lennox, the Duchess, etc., etc.  In short, if I can
but continue to live thirty years extraordinary, in lieu of those I have missed, I shall be
able to give to the world some treasures from the press at Strawberry.  Do tell me a little
of your motions, and good night.

(936) Now first printed.

444 Letter 280 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Aug. 24, 1758.

You must go into laurels, you must go into mourning. our expedition has taken Cherbourg shamefully--I
mean the French lost it shamefully--and then stood looking on while we destroyed all their
works, particularly a basin that had cost vast sums.  But, to balance their awkwardness with
ours, it proved to be an open place, which we might have taken when we were before it a month
ago.  The fleet is now off Portland, expecting orders for landing or proceeding.  Prince Edward
gave the ladies a ball, and told them he was too young to know what was good-breeding in France,
he would therefore behave as he should if meaning to please in England--and kissed them all.
Our next and greatest triumph is the taking of Cape Breton, the account of which came on Friday.
The French have not improved like their wines by crossing the sea; but lost their spirit at
Louisbourg as much as on their own coast.  The success, especially, in the destruction of their
fleet, is very great: the triumphs not at all disproportioned to the conquest, of which you
will see all the particulars in the Gazette.  Now for the chapter of cypresses.  The attempt
on Crown-point has failed; Lord Howe(937) was killed in a skirmish; and two days afterwards
by blunders, rashness, and bad intelligence, we received a great blow at Ticonderoga.  There
is a Gazette, too, with all the history of this.  My hope is that Cape Breton may buy us Minorca
and a peace, I have great satisfaction in Captain Hervey's gallantry; not only he is my friend,
but I have the greatest regard for and obligations to my Lady Hervey; he is her favourite son
and she is particularly happy.

Mr. Wills is arrived and has sent me the medals, for which I give you a million of thanks;
the scarce ones are not only valuable for the curiosity of them, but for their preservation.
I laughed heartily at the Duke of Argyll, and am particularly pleased with the Jesus Rex noster.(938)

Chevert, the best and most sensible of the French officers, has been beat by a much smaller
number under the command of Imhoff, who, I am told, would be very stupid, if a German could
be so. I think they hope a little still for Hanover, from this success.  Of the King of Prussia--not
a word.

My lady Bath has had a paralytic stroke, which drew her mouth aside and took away her speech.
I never heard a greater instance of cool sense; she made sign for a pen and ink, and wrote
Palsy.  They got immediate assistance, and she is recovered.

As I wrote to you but a minute ago, I boldly conclude this already.  Adieu!

(937) General George Augustus, third Viscount Howe.  He was succeeded in the title by his brother
Richard, the celebrated admiral.  Mr. George Grenville, in a letter to Mr. Pitt, of the 28th,
pays the following tribute to his memory:-"I admired his virtuous, gallant character, and lament
his loss accordingly: I cannot help thinking it peculiarly unfortunate for his country and
his friends, that he should fall in the first action of this war, before his spirit and his
example, and the success and glory which, in all human probability, would have attended them,
had produced their full effect on our troops, and those of the enemy." Chatham Correspondence,
vol. i. p. 339.-E.

(938) Inscription on a silver coin of the republic of Florence, who declared Jesus Christ their
King, to prevent the usurpation of Pope Clement VII.

445 Letter 281 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 2, 1758.

It is well I have got something to pay you for the best letter that ever was!  A vast victory,
I own, does not entertain me so much as a good letter; but you are bound to like any thing
military better than your own wit, and therefore I hope you will think a defeat of the Russians
a better bon-mot than any you sent me.  Should you think it clever if the King of Prussia has
beaten them? How much cleverer if he has taken three lieutenant-generals and an hundred pieces
of cannon?  How much cleverer still, if he has left fifteen thousand Muscovites dead on the
Spot?(939)  Does the loss of only three thousand of his own men take off from or sharpen the
sting of this joke?  In short, all this is fact, as a courier arrived at Sion Hill this morning
affirms.  The city, I suppose, expect that his Majesty will now be"at leisure to step to Ticonderoga
and repair our mishaps.(940)  But I shall talk no more politics; if this finds you at Chatworth,
as I suppose it will, you will be better informed than from me.

lady Mary Coke arrived at Ragley between two and three in the morning; how unlucky that I was
not there to offer her part of an aired bed! But how could you think of the proposal you have
made me?  Am not I already in love with "the youngest, handsomest, and wittiest widow in England?"
As Herculean a labourer as I am, as Tom Hervey says, I don't choose another. I am still in
the height of my impatience for the chest of old papers from Ragley, which, either by the fault
of their servants, or of the wagoner, is not yet arrived.  I shall go to London again on Monday
in quest of it; and in truth think so much of it, that, when I first heard of the victory this
morning, I rejoiced, as we were likely now to recover the Palatinate.  Good night!

(939) The defeat of the Russians at Zorndorf.

(940) The repulse of General Abercrombie at Ticonderoga.

446 Letter 282 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 9, 1758.

Well! the King of Prussia is found again--where do you think? only in Poland, up to the chin
in Russians!  Was ever such a man!  He was riding home from Olmutz; they ran and told him of
an army of Muscovites,(941) as you would of a covey of partridges; he galloped thither, and
shot them.  But what news I am telling you!  I forgot that all ours comes by water-carriage,
and that you must know every thing a fortnight before us.  It is incredible how popular he
is here; except a few, who take him for the same person as Mr. Pitt, the lowest of the people
are perfectly acquainted with him: as I was walking by the river the other night, a bargeman
asked me for something to drink the King of Prussia's health.  Yet Mr. Pitt specifies his own
glory as much as he can: the standards taken at Louisbourg have been carried to St. Paul's
with much parade; and this week, after bringing it by land from Portsmouth, they have dragged
the cannon of Cherbourg into Hyde Park, on pretence of diverting a man,(942) whom, in former
days, I believe, Mr. Pitt has laughed for loving such rattles as drums and trumpets.  Our expedition,
since breaking a basin at Cherbourg, has done nothing, but are dodging about still. Prince
Edward gave one hundred guineas to the poor of Cherbourg, and the General and Admiral twenty-five
apiece.  I love charity, but sure is this excess of it, to lay out thousands, and venture so
many lives, for the opportunity of giving a Christmas-box to your enemies!  Instead of beacons,
I suppose, the coast of France will be hung with pewter-pots with a slit in them, as prisons
are, to receive our alms.

Don't trouble yourself about the Pope: I am content to find that he will by no means eclipse
my friend.  You please me with telling me of a collection of medals bought for the Prince of
Wales.  I hope it Is his own taste; if it is only thought right that he should have it, I am glad.

I am again got into the hands of builders, though this time to a very small extent; only the
addition of a little cloister and bedchamber.  A day may come that will produce a gallery,
a round tower, a large cloister, and a cabinet, in the manner of a little chapel: but I am
too poor for these ambitious designs yet, and I have so many ways of dispersing My Money, that
I don't know when I shall be richer.  However, I amuse myself infinitely; besides my printing-house,
which is constantly at work, besides such a treasure of taste and drawing as my friend Mr.
Bentley, I have a painter in the house, who is an engraver too, a mechanic, an every thing.
He was a Swiss engineer in the French service; but his regiment being broken at the peace,
Mr. Bentley found him in the Isle of Jersey and fixed him with me.  He has an astonishing genius
for landscape, and added to that, all the industry and patience of a German.  We are just now
practising, and have succeeded surprisingly in a new method of painting, discovered at Paris
by Count Caylus, and intended to be the encaustic method of the ancients.  My Swiss has painted,
I am writing the account,(943) and my press is to notify our improvements.  As you will know
that way, I will not tell you here at large.  In short, to finish all the works I have in hand,
and all the schemes I have in my head, I cannot afford to live less than fifty years more.
What pleasure it would give me to see you here for a moment! I should think I saw you and your
dear brother at once! Can't you form some violent secret expedition against Corsica or Port
Mahon, which may make it necessary for you to come and settle here? Are we to correspond till
we meet in some unknown world? Alas! I fear so; my dear Sir, you are as little likely to save
money as I am--would you could afford to resign your crown and be a subject at Strawberry Hill!
Adieu!

P. S. I have forgot to tell you of a wedding in our family; my brother's eldest daughter(944)
is to be married tomorrow to lord Albemarle's third brother, a canon of Windsor.  We are very
happy with the match.  The bride is very agreeable, and sensible, and good; not so handsome
as her sisters, but further from ugliness than beauty.  It is the second, Maria,(945) who is
beauty itself! Her face, bloom, eyes, hair, teeth, and person are all perfect.  You may imagine
how charming she is, when her only fault, if one must find one, is, that her face is rather
too round.  She has a great deal of wit and vivacity, with perfect modesty.  I must tell you
too of their brother:(946) he was on the expedition to St. Maloes; a party of fifty men appearing
on a hill, he was despatched to reconnoitre with only eight men.  Being stopped by a brook,
he prepared to leap it; an old sergeant dissuaded him, from the inequality of the numbers.
"Oh!" said the boy, "I will tell you what; our profession is bred up to so much regularity
that any novelty terrifies them--with our light English horses we will leap this stream; and
I'll be d--d if they don't run."  He did so, and they did so.  However, he was not content;
but insisted that each of his party should carry back a prisoner before them.  They got eight,
when they overtook an elderly man, to whom they offered quarter, bidding him lay down his arms.
He replied, "they were English, the enemies of his King and country; that he hated them, and
had rather be killed."  My nephew hesitated a minute, and said, "I see you are a brave fellow,
and don't fear death, but very likely you fear a beating-if you don't lay down your arms this
instant, my men shall drub you as long as they can stand over you."  The fellow directly flung
down his arms in a passion.  The Duke of Marlborough sent my brother word of this, adding,
it was the only clever action in their whole exploit.  Indeed I am pleased with it; for besides
his spirit, I don't see, with this thought and presence of mind, why he should not make a general.
I return to one little word of the King of Prussia-- shall I tell you? I fear all this time
he is only fattening himself with glory for Marshal Daun, who will demolish him at last, and
then, for such service, be shut up in some fortress or in the inquisition--for it is impossible
but the house of Austria must indemnify themselves for so many mortifications by some horrid
ingratitude!

(941) This was the battle of Zorndorf, fought on the @5th of August, 1758, and gained by the
King of Prussia over the Russians, commanded by Count Fermor.-D.

(942) The King.

(943) M`untz left Mr. Walpole, and published another account himself.

(944) Laura, this eldest daughter of Sir Edward Walpole, married to Dr. Frederick Keppel, afterwards
Dean of Windsor and Bishop of Exeter.

(945) Maria, second daughter, married first to James second Earl of Waldegrave, and afterwards
to William Henry Duke of Gloucester, brother to King George the Third.

(946) Edward, only son of Sir Edward Walpole.  He died young.

448 Letter 283 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Strawberry Hill, September 14, 1758.

Sir, Though the approaching edition of my Catalogue is so far advanced that little part is
left now for any alteration, yet as a book of that kind is always likely to be reprinted from
the new persons who grow entitled to a place in it, and as long as it is in my power I shall
wish to correct and improve it, I must again thank you, Sir, for the additional trouble you
have given yourself.  The very first article strikes me much.  May I ask where, and in what
page of what book, I can find Sir R. Cotton's account of Richard II.(947) being an author:
does not he mean Richard I.?

The Basilicon Doron is published in the folio of K. James's works, and contains instructions
to his son, Prince Henry.  In return, I will ask you where you find those verses of Herbert;
and I would also ask you, how you have had time to find and know so much?

Lord Leicester, and much less the Duke of Monmouth, will scarce, I fear, come under the description
I have laid down to myself of authors.  I doubt the first did not compose his own Apology.

Did the Earl of Bath publish, or only design to publish, Dionysius?(948)  Shall I find the
account in Usher's Letters? Since you are so very kind, Sir, as to favour me with your assistance,
shall I beg, Sir, to prevent my repeating trouble to you, just to mark at any time where you
find the notices you impart to Me; for, though the want of a citation is the effect of my ignorance,
it has the same consequence to you.

I have not the Philosophical Transactions, but I will hereafter examine them on the hints you
mention, particularly for Lord Brounker,(949) who I did not know had written, though I have
often thought it probable he did.  As I have considered Lord Berkeley's Love-letters, I have
no doubt but they are a fiction, though grounded on a real story.

That Lord Falkland was a writer of controversy appears by the list of his works, and that he
is said to have assisted Chillingworth: that he wrote against Chillingworth, you see, Sir,
depends upon very vague authority; that is, upon the assertion of an anonymous person, who
wrote so above a hundred years ago.

James, Earl of Marlborough, is entirely a new author to me--at present, too late.  Lord Raymond
I had inserted, and he will appear in the next edition.

I have been as unlucky, for the present, about Lord Totness. In a collection published in Ireland,
called Hibernica, I found, but too late, that he translated another very curious piece, relating
to Richard II. However, Sir, with these, and the very valuable helps I have received from you,
I shall be able, at a proper time, to enrich another edition much.

(947) Mr. Walpole takes no notice of Richard II. as an author; but Mr. park inserts this prince
as a writer of ballads.  In a letter to Archbishop Usher, Sir Robert Cotton requested his grace
to procure for him a poem by Richard II. which that prelate had pointed out.-C.

(948) Spelman's is the only English translation of the Antiquities of Dionysius Halicarnassensis,
known to be printed.-C.

(949) He wrote several papers in the Philosophical Transactions, and also translated Descartes'
Music Compendium.- C.

449 Letter 284 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(950) Arlington Street, Sept. 19, 1758.

I have all my life laughed at ministers in my letters; but at least with the decency of obliging
them to break open the seal. You have more noble frankness, and send your satires to the post
with not so much as a wafer, as my Lord Bath did sometimes in my father's administration. 
I scarce laughed more at the inside of your letter than at the cover--not a single button to
the waistband of its beseeches, but all its nakedness fairly laid open! what was worse, all
Lady Mary Coke's nakedness was laid open at the same time.  Is this your way of treating a
dainty widow!  What will Mr. Pitt think of all this? will he begin to believe that you have
some spirit, when, with no fear of Dr. Shebbeare's example(951) before your eyes, you speak
your Mind so freely, without any modification? As Mr. Pitt may be cooled a little to his senses,
perhaps he may now find out, that a grain of prudence is no bad ingredient in a mass of courage;
in short, he and the mob are at last undeceived, and have found, by sad experience that all
the cannon of France has not been brought into Hyde Park.  An account, which you will see in
the Gazette, (though a little better disguised than your letters,) is come that after our troops
had been set on shore, and left there, till my Lord Howe went somewhere else, and cried Hoop!
having nothing else to do for four days to amuse themselves, nor knowing whether there was
a town within a hundred miles, went staring about the country to see whether there were any
Frenchmen left in France; which Mr. Pitt, in very fine words, had assured them there was not,
and which my Lord Howe, in very fine silence, had confirmed.  However, somehow or other, (Mr.
Deputy Hodges says they were not French, but Papists sent from Vienna to assist the King of
France,) twelve battalions fell upon our rear-guard, and, which General Blighe says is "very
Common," (I suppose he means that rashness and folly should run itself' into a scrape,)--were
all cut to pieces or taken.  The town says, Prince Edward (Duke of York) ran hard to save himself;
I don't mean too fast, but scarcely fast enough; and the General says, that Lord Frederick
Cavendish, your friend, is safe; the thing he seems to have thought of most, except a little
vain parade of his own self-denial on his nephew.  I shall not be at all surprised if, to show
he was not in the wrong, Mr. Pitt should get ready another expedition by the depth of winter,
and send it in search of the cannons and colours of these twelve battalions. Pray Heaven your
letter don't put it in his head to give you the command!  It is not true, that he made the
King ride upon one of the cannons to the Tower.

I was really touched with my Lady Howe's advertisement,(952) though I own at first it made
me laugh; for seeing an address to the voters for Nottingham signed "Charlotte Howe," I concluded
(they are so manly a family) that Mrs. Howe,(953) who rides a fox-chase, and dines at the table
d'h`ote at Grantham, intended to stand for member of Parliament.

Sir John Armitage died on board a ship before the landing; Lady Hardwickc's nephew, Mr. Cocks,
scarce recovered of his Cherbourg wound, is killed.' He had seven thousand pounds a year, and
was volunteer.  I don't believe his uncle and aunt advised his venturing so much money.

My Lady Burlington is very ill, and the distemper shows itself oddly; she breaks out all over
in-curses and blasphemies.  Her maids are afraid of catching them, and will hardly venture
into her room.

On reading over your letter again, I begin to think that the connexion between Mr. Pitt and
my dainty widow is stronger than I imagined.  One of them must have caught of the other that
noble contempt which makes a thing's being impossible not signify.  It sounds very well in
sensible mouths; but how terrible to be the chambermaid or the army of such people! I really
am in a panic, and having some mortal impossibilities about me which a dainty widow might not
allow to signify, I will balance a little between her and my Lady Carlisle, who, I believe,
knows that impossibilities do signify.  These were some of my reflections on reading your letter
again; another was, that I am now convinced you sent your letter open to the post on purpose;
you knew It was so good a letter that every body ought to see it-and yet you would pass for
a modest man!

I am glad I am not in favour enough to be consulted by my Lord Duchess(954) on the Gothic farm;
she would have given me so many fine and unintelligible reasons why it should not be as it
should be, that I should have lost a little of my patience. You don't tell me if the goose-board
in hornbean is quite finished; and have you forgot that I actually was in t'other goose-board,
the conjuring room?

I wish you joy on your preferment in the militia, though I do not think it quite so safe an
employment as it used to be.  If George Townshend's disinterested virtue should grow impatient
for a regiment, he will persuade Mr. Pitt that the militia arc the only troops in the world
for taking Rochfort.  Such a scheme would answer all his purposes - would advance his own interest,
contradict the Duke's opinion, who holds militia cheap, and by the ridiculousness of the attempt
would furnish very good subjects to his talent of buffoonery in black-lead.

The King of Prussia you may believe is in Petersburg, but he happens to be in Dresden.  Good
night! Mine and Sir Harry Hemlock's services to my Lady Ailesbury.

(950) Now first printed.

(951) Dr. Shebbeare had just before been sentenced to fine, imprisonment, and the pillory for
his Sixth Letter to the People of England.  The under-sheriff, however, allowed him to stand
on, instead of in, the pillory; for which lenity he was prosecuted.-E.

(952 On the news of the death of Lord Howe reaching the dowager Lady Howe, she addressed the
gentry, clergy, and freeholders of Nottingham, whom the deceased represented in Parliament,
in favour of his next younger brother, Colonel Howe, to supply his place in the House of Commons.
"Permit me," she says, "to implore the protection of every one of you, as the mother of him
whose life has been lost in the service of his country." The appeal was responded to, and Colonel,
afterwards General Sir William Howe, was returned.-E.

(953) The Hon.  Caroline Howe, daughter of the above-mentioned lady , who married her namesake,
John Howe, Esq. of Hemslop.-E.

(954) The Duchess of Norfolk.  She had planted a game of the goose in hornbean, at Worksop.

451 Letter 285 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Sept. 22, 1758.

The confusion of the first accounts and the unwelcomeness of the subject, made me not impatient
to despatch another letter so quickly after my last.  However, as I suppose the French relations
will be magnified, it is proper to let you know the exact truth.  Not being content with doing
nothing at St. Maloes, and with being suffered to do all we could at Cherbourg, (no great matter,)
our land and sea heroes, Mr. Pitt and Lord Howe, projected a third--I don't know what to call
it. It seems they designed to take St. Maloes, but being disappointed by the weather, they--what
do you think? landed fifteen miles from it, with no object nor near any--and lest that should
not be absurd enough, the fleet sailed away for another bay, leaving the army with only two
cannons. to scramble to them across the country as they could.  Nine days they were staring
about France; at last they had notice of twelve battalions approaching, on which they stayed
a little before they hurried to the transports.  The French followed them at a distance, firing
from the upper grounds.  When the greatest part were reimbarked, the French descended and fell
on the rear, on which it Was necessary to sacrifice the Guards to secure the rest.  Those brave
young men did wonders--that is, they were cut to pieces with great intrepidity.  We lost General
Dury and ten other officers; Lord Frederick Cavendish with twenty-three others were taken prisoners.
In all we have lost seven hundred men, but more shamefully for the projectors and conductors
than can be imagined, for no shadow of an excuse can be offered for leaving them so exposed
with no purpose or possible advantage, in the heart of an Enemy's country.  What heightens
the distress. the army sailed from Weymouth with a full persuasion that they were to be sacrificed
to the vainglorious whims of a man of words(955) and a man(956) of none!

"Three expeditions we have sent, And if you bid me show where I know as well as those who went,
To St. Maloes, Cherbourg, nowhere."

Those, whose trade or amusement is politics, may comfort themselves with their darling Prussian;
he has strode back over 20 or 30,000 Russians,(957) and stepped into Dresden.  They even say
that Daun is retired.  For my part, it is to inform you, that I dwell at all on these things.
I am shocked with the iniquities I see and have seen.  I abhor their dealings.

"And from my soul sincerely hate Both Kings and Ministers of State!"

I don't know whether I can attain any goodness by shunning them, I am sure their society is
contagious Yet I will never advertise my detestation, for if I professed virtue, I should expect
to be suspected of designing to be a minister.  Adieu! you are good, and wilt keep yourself so.

sept. 25th.

I had sealed my letter, but as it cannot go away till to-morrow, I open it again on receiving
yours of Sept. 9th.  I don't understand Marshal Botta's being so well satisfied with our taking
Louisbourg.  Are the Austrians disgusted with the French?  Do they begin to repent their alliance?
or has he so much sense as to know what improper allies they have got? It is very right in
you who are a minister, to combat hostile Ministers--had I been at Florence, I should not have
so much contested the authority of the Abb`e de Ville's performance: I have no more doubt of'
the convention of Closter-Severn having been scandalously broken, than it was shamelessly disavowed
by those who commanded it.

In our loss are included some of our volunteers; a Sir John Armitage, a young man of fortune,
just come much into the world, and engaged to the sister(958) of the hot-headed and cool-tongued
Lord Howe; a Mr. Cocks, nephew of lady Hardwicke, who could not content himself with seven
thousand pounds a-year, without the addition of an ensign's commission - he was not quite recovered
of a wound he had got at CHerbourg.  The royal volunteer, Prince Edward, behaved with much
spirit. Adieu!

(955) Mr. Pitt.-D.

(956) two brothers, successively Lords Howe, were remarkably silent.

(957) The battle of Zorndorf.-D.

(958) Mary, their youngest sister, was afterwards married to General Pitt, brother of George
Lord Rivers.

453 Letter 286 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct. 3, 1758.

having no news to send you, but the massacre of St. Cas,(959) not agreeable enough for a letter,
I stayed till I had something to send you, and behold a book! I have delivered to portly old
Richard, your ancient nurse, the new produce of the Strawberry press.  You know that the wife
of Bath is gone to maunder at St. Peter, and before he could hobble to the gate, my Lady Burlington,
cursing and blaspheming, overtook t'other Countess, and both together made such an uproar,
that the cock flew up into the tree of life for safety, and St. Peter himself turned the key
and hid himself; and as nobody could get into t'other world, half the Guards are come back
again, and appeared in the park to-day, but such dismal ghostly figures, that my Lady Townshend
was really frightened, and is again likely to turn Methodist.

Do you design, or do you not, to look at Strawberry as you come to town? if you do.  I will
send a card to my neighbour, Mrs. Holman, to meet you any day five weeks that you please--or
I can amuse you without cards; such fat bits of your dear dad, old Jemmy, as I have found among
the Conway papers, such morsels of all sorts!  but come and see.  Adieu!

(959) The army that took the town of Cherbourg, landed again on the coast of France near St.
Maloes, but was forced to reimbark in the Bay of St. Cas with the loss of a thousand men.

454 Letter 287 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Strawberry Hill, October 5th, 1758.

Sir, You make so many apologies for conferring great favours on me, that if you have not a
care.  I shall find it more convenient to believe that, instead of being grateful, I shall
be very good if I am forgiving.  If I am impertinent enough to take up this style, at least
I promise you I will be very good, and I will certainly pardon as many obligations as you shall
please to lay on me.

I have that Life of Richard II.  It is a poor thing, and not even called in the title-page
Lord Holles's; it is a still lower trick of booksellers to insert names of authors in a catalogue,
which, with all their confidence, they do not venture to bestow on the books themselves; I
have found several instances of this.

Lord Preston's Boetius I have.  From Scotland, I have received a large account of Lord Cromerty,
which will appear in my next edition: as my copy is in the press, I do not exactly remember
if there is the Tract on Precedency: he wrote a great number of things, and was held it) great
contempt living and dead.(960)

I have long sought, and wished to find, some piece of Duke Humphrey:(961) he was a great patron
of learning, built the schools, I think, and gave a library to Oxford.  Yet, I fear, I may
not take the authority of Pits, who is a wretched liar; nor is it at all credible that in so
blind an age a Prince, who, with all his love of learning, I fear, had very little of either
learning or parts, should write on Astronomy;--had it been on Astrology, it might have staggered
me.

My omission of Lord Halifax's maxims was a very careless one, and has been rectified.  I did
examine the Musae Anglicaanae, and I think found a copy or two, and at first fancied I had
found more, till I came to examine narrowly.  In the Joys and Griefs of Oxford and Cambridge,
are certainly many noble copies; but you judge very right, Sir--they are not to be mentioned,
no more than exercises at school, where, somehow or other, every peer has been a poet.  To
my shame, you are still more in the right about the Duke of Buckingham: if you will give me
leave, instead of thinking that he Wrote, hoping to be mistaken for his predecessor, I will
believe that he hoped so after he had written.

You are again in the right, Sir, about Lord Abercorn, as the present lord himself informed
me.  I don't know Lord Godolphin's verses: at most, by your account, he should be in the Appendix;
but if they are only signed Sidney Godolphin, they may belong to his uncle, who, if I remember
rightly, was one of the troop of verse-writers of that time.

You have quite persuaded me of the mistake in Mindas; till you mentioned it, I had forgot that
they wrote Windsor "Windesore," and then by abbreviation the mistake was easy.

The account of Lord Clarendon is printed off; I do mention as printed his account of Ireland,
though I knew nothing of Borlase.  Apropos, Sir, are you not glad to see that the second part
of his history is actually advertised to come out soon after Christmas?(962)

Lord Nottingham's letter I shall certainly mention.

I yesterday sent to Mr. Whiston a little piece that I have just mentioned here, and desired
him to convey it to you; you must not expect a great deal from it: yet it belongs so much to
my Catalogue, that I thought it a duty to publish it.  A better return to some of your civilities
is to inform you of Dr. Jortin's Life of Erasmus, with which I am much entertained. There are
numberless anecdotes of men thought great in their day, now as much forgotten, that it grows
valuable again to hear about them.  The book is written with great moderation and goodness
of heart: the style is not very striking, and has some vulgarisms, and In a work of that bulk
I should rather have taken more pains to digest and connect it into a flowing narrative, than
drily give it as a diary: yet I dare promise it will amuse you much.

With your curiosity, Sir, and love of information, I am sure you will be glad to hear of a
most valuable treasure that I have discovered; it is the collection of state papers,(963) amassed
by the two Lords Conway, that were secretaries of state, and their family: vast numbers have
been destroyed; yet I came time enough to retrieve vast numbers, many, indeed, in a deplorable
condition.  They were buried under lumber' upon the pavement of an unfinished chapel, at Lord
Hertford's in Warwickshire, and during his minority, and the absence of his father, an ignorant
steward delivered them over to the oven and kitchen, and yet had not been able to destroy them
all.  It is a vast work to dry, range, and read them, and to burn the useless, as bills, bonds,
and every other kind of piece of paper that ever came into a house, and were all jumbled and
matted together.  I propose, by degrees, to print the most curious; of which, I think, I have
already selected enough to form two little volumes of the size of my Catalogue.  Yet I will
not give too great expectations about them, because I know how often the public has been disappointed
when they came to see in print what in manuscript has appeared to the editor wonderfully choice.

(960) We can hardly account for this expression, unless Mr. Walpole alludes to Lord Cromerty's
political reputation.  Macky states, that " his arbitrary proceedings had rendered him so obnoxious
to the people, he could not be employed;" and, certainly, his character for consistency and
integrity was not very exalted: but almost all contemporary writers describe him as a man of
great weight and of singular endowments; and Walpole himself, in his subsequent editions, calls
him "a person eminent for his learning, and for his abilities as a statesman and general."-C.

(961) That Duke Humphrey had at least a relish for learning, may be inferred from the following
passage.  At the close of a fine manuscript in the Cotton collection (Nero E. v.) is "Origo
et processus gentis Scotorum, ae de superioritate Regum Angliae super regnum illud."  It once
belonged to Humphrey Duke of Gloucester, and has this Sentence in his own handwriting at the
end, "Cest livre est `a moy Homfrey Duc de Gloucestre, lequel j'achetay des executeurs de maistre
Thomas Polton, feu evesque de Wurcestre."  Bishop Polton died in 1436.-C.

(962) The second part of Lord Clarendon's history was printed in folio, in 1760, and also in
three volumes octavo.-C.

(963) The increased and increasing taste of the public for the materials of history, such as
these valuable papers supply, will, we have reason to hope, be gratified by the approaching
appearance of this collection, publication of which was, we see, contemplated even as long
since as 1758.-C.

456 Letter 288 To The Right Hon. Lady Hervey. Arlington Street, Oct. 17, 1758.

Your ladyship, I hope, will not think that such a strange thing as my own picture seems of
consequence enough to me to write a letter about it: but obeying your commands does seem so;
lest you should return and think I had neglected it, I must say that I have come to town three
several times on purpose, but Mr. Ramsay (I will forgive him) has been constantly Out of town.
So much for that.

I would have sent you word that the King of Portugal coming along the road at midnight, which
was in his own room at noon, his foot slipped, and three balls went through his body; which,
however, had no other consequence than giving him a stroke of a palsy, of which he is quite
recovered, except being dead.(964) Some, indeed, are so malicious as to say, that the Jesuits,
who are the most conscientious men in the world, murdered him, because he had an intrigue with
another man's wife: but all these histories I supposed your ladyship knew better than me, as,
till I came to town yesterday, I imagined you was returned. For my own part, about whom you
are sometimes so good as to interest yourself, I am as well as can be expected after the murder
of a king and the death of a person of the next consequence to a king, the master of the ceremonies,
poor Sir Clement,(965) who is supposed to have been suffocated by my Lady Macclesfield's(966)
kissing hands.

This will be a melancholy letter, for I have nothing to tell your ladyship but tragical stories.
Poor Dr. Shawe(967) being sent for in great haste to Claremont--(It seems the Duchess had caught
a violent cold by a hair of her own whisker getting up her nose and making her sneeze)--the
poor Doctor, I say, having eaten a few mushrooms before he set out, was taken so ill, that
he was forced to stop at Kingston; and, being carried to the first apothecary's, prescribed
a medicine for himself which immediately cured him.  This catastrophe so alarmed the Duke of
Newcastle, that he immediately ordered all the mushroom beds to be destroyed, and even the
toadstools in the park did not escape scalping in this general massacre.  What I tell you is
literally true.  Mr. Stanley, who dined there last Sunday, and is not partial against that
court, heard the edict repeated, and confirmed it to me last night.  And a voice of lamentation
was heard at Ramah in Claremont, Chlo`e(968) weeping for her mushrooms, and they are not!

After all these important histories, I would try to make you smile, If I was not afraid you
would resent a little freedom taken with a great name.  May I venture?

A book has been left at your ladyship's house; it is Lord Whitworth's Account of Russia.(969)
Monsieur Kniphausen has promised me some curious anecdotes of the Czarina Catherine-so my shop
is likely to flourish.  I am your ladyship's most obedient servant.

(964) Alluding to the incoherent stories told at the time of the assassination of the King
of Portugal. [The following is the correct account:--As the King was taking The air in his
coach on the 3d September, attended by only one domestic, he was attacked in a solitary lane
near Belem by three men, one of whom discharged his carbine at the coachman, and wounded him
dangerously; the other two fired their blunderbusses at the King, loaded with pieces of iron,
and wounded him in the face and several parts of his body, but chiefly in the right arm, which
disabled him for a long time.

(965) Sir Clement Cotterel.

(966) She had been a common woman.

(967) Physician to the Duke and Duchess of Newcastle.

(968) The Duke of Newcastle's cook.

(969) A small octavo printed at the Strawberry Hill press, to which Walpole prefixed a preface.
Charles Whitworth, in 1720, created Baron Whitworth of Galway, was ambassador to the court
of petersburgh in the reign of Peter the Great.  On his death, in 1725, the title became extinct.-E.

457 Letter 289 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(970) Arlington Street, Oct. 17, 1758.

I have read your letter, as you may believe, with the strictest attention, and will tell you
my thoughts as sincerely as you do and have a right to expect them.

In the first place, I think you far from being under any obligation for this notice.  If Mr.
Pitt is sensible that he has used you very ill, is it the part of an honest man to require
new submissions, new supplications from the person he has injured?  If he thinks you proper
to command, as one must suppose by this information, is it patriotism that forbids him to employ
an able officer, unless that officer sues to be employed?  Does patriotism bid him send out
a man that has had a stroke of a palsy, preferable to a young man of vigour and capacity, only
because the latter has made' no Application within these two months!--But as easily as I am
inclined to believe that your merit makes its way even through the cloud of Mr. Pitt's proud
prejudices, yet I own in the present case I question it.  I can see two reasons why he should
wish to entice you to this application: the first is, the clamour against his giving all commands
to young or improper officers is extreme; Holmes, appointed admiral of the blue but six weeks
ago, has writ a warm letter on the chapter of subaltern commanders: the second, and possibly
connected in his mind with the former, may be this; he would like to refuse you, and then say,
you had asked when it was too late; and at the same time would have to say that he would have
employed you if you had asked sooner.  This leads me to the point of time: Hobson is not Only
appointed,(971) but Haldane, though going governor to Jamaica, is made a brigadier and joined
to him,--Colonel Barrington set out to Portsmouth last night.  All these reasons, I think,
make it very improper for you to ask this command now.  You have done more than enough to satisfy
your honour, and will certainly have opportunities again of repeating offers of your service.
But though it may be right to ask in general to serve, I question much if it is advisable to
petition for particulars, any failure in which would be charged entirely on you.  I should
wish to have you vindicated by the rashness of Mr. Pitt and the miscarriages of others, as
I think they hurry to -make you be; but while he bestows only impracticable commands, knowing
that, if there is blood enough shed, the city of London will be content even with disappointments,
I hope you will not be sacrificed either to the mob or the minister.  And this leads me to
the article of the expedition itself.  Martinico is the general notion; a place the strongest
in the world, with a garrison of ten thousand men.  Others now talk of Guadaloupe, almost as
strong and of much less consequence.  Of both, every body that knows, despairs.  It is almost
impossible for me to find out the real destination.' I avoid every one of the three factions--and
though I might possibly learn the secret from the chief of one of them, if he knows it, yet
I own I do not care to try; I don't think it fair to thrust myself into secrets with a man
(972) of whose ambition and views I do not think well, and whose purposes (in those lights)
I have declined and will decline to serve.  Besides, I have reason just now to think that he
and his court are meditating some attempt which may throw us again into confusion; and I had
rather not be told what I am sure I shall not approve: besides, I cannot ask secrets of this
nature without hearing more with which I would not be trusted, and which, if divulged, would
be imputed to me. I know you will excuse me for these reasons, especially as you know how much
I would do to serve you, and would even in this case, if I was not convinced that it is too
late for you to apply; and being too late, they would be glad to say you had asked too late.
Besides if any information could be got from the channel at which I have hinted, the Duke of
Richmond could get it better than I; and the Duke of Devonshire could give it you without.

I can have no opinion of the expedition itself, which certainly started from the disappointment
at St. Cas, if it can be called a disappointment where there was no object.  I have still more
doubts on Lord Milton's authority; Clarke(973) was talked to by the Princess yesterday much
more than any body in the room. Cunningham is made quartermaster-general to this equipment;
these things don't look as if your interest was increased.  As Lord George has sent over his
commands for Cunningham, might not his art at the same time have suggested some application
to you--tell me, do you think he would ask this command for himself I, who am not of so honest
and sincere a nature as you are, suspect that this hint is sent to you with some bad view-I
don't mean on Lord Milton's part, who I dare say is deceived by his readiness to serve you;
and since you do me the honour of letting me at all judge for you, which in one light I think
I am fit to do, I mean, as your spirit naturally makes you overlook every thing to get employed,
I would wish you to answer to Lord Milton,,"that you should desire of all things to have had
this command, but that having been discouraged from asking what you could not flatter yourself
would be granted, it would look, you think, a vain offer, to sue for what is now given away,
and would not be consistent with your honour to ask when it is too late."  I hint this, as
such an answer would turn their arts on themselves, if, as I believe, they mean to refuse you,
and to reproach you with asking too late.

If the time is come for Mr. Pitt to want you, you will not long be unemployed; if it is not,
then you would get nothing by asking.  Consider, too, how much more graceful a reparation of
your honour it will be, to have them forced to recall you, than to force yourself on desperate
service, as if you yourself, not they, had injured your reputation.

I can say nothing now on any other chapter, this has so much engrossed all my thoughts.  I
see no one reason upon earth for your asking now.  If you ever should ask again, you will not
want opportunities; and the next time you ask, will have just the same merit that this could
have, and by asking in time, would be liable to none of the objections of that sort which I
have mentioned! Adieu!  Timeo Lord George et dona.

(970) Now first printed.

(971) To the command of an expedition against Martinique.-E.

(972) Mr. Fox.

(973) Lord Bute says, in a letter to Mr. Pitt, of the 8th of September, "With regard to Clarke,
I know him well: he must be joined to a general in whom he has confidence, or not thought of.
Never was man so cut out for bold and hardy enterprises; but the person who commands him must
think in the same way of him, or the affair of Rochfort will return." Chatham Correspondence,
vol. ii. p. 350.-E.

459 Letter 290 To The Rev. Henry Zouch.

(974) It is evident that Mr. Walpole has here transposed, contrary to his meanings the references
to lord Clarendon and Polybius: the latter wrote the general history, the former the portion
of history.-C.

(975) This alludes to an epigrammatic passage in the article "Bolingbroke" in the Noble Authors.
"He wrote against Sir Robert Walpole, who did forgive him; and against the clergy, who never
will forgive him."@.

(976) this seems a singular reason for excluding him from a list of authors@-C.

462 Letter 291 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Oct. 24, 1758.

I am a little sorry that my preface, like the show-cloth to a sight, entertained you more than
the bears it invited you in to see.  I don't mean that I am not glad to have written any thing
that meets your approbation, but if Lord Whitworth's work is not better than my preface, I
fear he has much less merit than I thought he had.

Your complaint of your eyes makes me feel for you: mine have been very weak again, and I am
taking the bark, which did them so much service last year.  I don't know how to give up the
employment of them, I mean reading; for as to writing, I am absolutely winding up my bottom,
for twenty reasons.  The first, and perhaps the best, I have writ enough.  The next; by what
I have writ, the world thinks I am not a fool, which was just what I wished them to think,
having always lived in terror of that oracular saying Ermu naidex luchoi, which Mr. Bentley
translated with so much more parts than the vain and malicious hero could have done that set
him the task, --I mean his father, the sons of heroes are loobies.  My last reason is, I find
my little stock of reputation very troublesome, both to maintain and to undergo the consequences--it
has dipped me in erudite correspondences--I receive letters every week that compliment my learning;
now, as there is nothing I hold so cheap as a learned man, except an unlearned one, this title
Is insupportable to me; if' I have not a care, I shall be called learned, till somebody abuses
me for not being learned, as they, not I, fancied I was.  In short, I propose to have nothing
more to do with the world, but divert myself in it as an obscure passenger--pleasure, virt`u,
politics, and literature, I have tried them all, and have had enough of them. Content and tranquillity,
with now and then a little of three of them, that I may not grow morose, shall satisfy the
rest of a life that is to have much idleness, and I hope a little goodness; for politics--a
long adieu! With some of the Cardinal de Retz's experience, though with none of his genius,
I see the folly of taking a violent part without any view, (I don't mean to commend a violent
part with a view, that is still worse;) I leave the state to be scrambled for by Mazarine,
at once cowardly and enterprising, ostentatious, jealous, and false; by Louvois, rash and dark;
by Colbert, the affecter of national interest, with designs not much better; and I leave the
Abb`e de la Rigbi`ere to sell the weak Duke of Orleans to whoever has money to buy him, or
would buy him to get money; at least these are my present reflections--if I should change them
to-morrow, remember I am not only a human creature, but that I am I, that is, one of the weakest
of human creatures, and so sensible of my fickleness that I am sometimes inclined to keep a
diary of my mind, as people do of the weather.  To-day you see it temperate, to-morrow it may
again blow politics and be stormy; for while I have so much quicksilver left, I fear my passionometer
will be susceptible of sudden changes.  What do years give one? Experience; experience, what?
Reflections; reflections, what?  nothing that I ever could find--nor can I well agree with
Waller, that

"The soul's dark cottage, batter'd and decay'd, Lets in new light through chinks that time
has made."

Chinks I am afraid there are, but instead of new light, I find nothing but darkness visible,
that serves only to discover sights of Wo.  I look back through my chinks--I find errors, follies,
faults; forward, old age and death, pleasures fleeting from me, no virtues succeeding to their
place--il faut avouer, I want all my quicksilver to make such a background receive any other
objects!

I am glad Mr. Frederick Montagu thinks so well of me as to be sure I shall be glad to see him
without an invitation.  For you, I had already perceived that you would not come to Strawberry
this year.  Adieu!

465 Letter 293 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Nov. 26, 1758.

How can you make me formal excuses for sending me a few covers to frank?  Have you so little
right to any act of friendship from me, that you should apologize for making me do what is
scarce any act at all?  However, your man has not called for the covers, although they have
been ready this fortnight.

I shall be very glad to see your brother in town, but I cannot quite take him in full of payment.
I trust you will stay the longer for coming the later.  There is not a syllable of news. The
Parliament is met, but empty and totally oppositionless. Your great Cu moved in the lords,
but did not shine much.  The great Cu of all Cues is out of order, not in danger, but certainly
breaking.

My eyes are performing such a strict quarantine, that you must excuse my brevity.  Adieu.

465 Letter 294 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Nov. 27, 1758.

it seems strange that at this time of the year, with armies still in the field and Parliaments
in town, I should have had nothing to tell you for above a month--yet so it was.  The King
caught cold on coming to town, and was very ill,(977) but the gout, which had never been at
court above twice in his reign, came, seized his foot a little, and has promised him at least
five or six years more--that is, if he will take care of himself; but yesterday, the coldest
day we have felt, he would go into the drawing-room, as if he was fond of showing the new stick
@e is forced to walk with.

The Parliament is all harmony, and thinks of nothing but giving away twelve more millions.
Mr. Pitt made the most artful speech he ever made: provoked, called for, defied objections;
promised enormous expense, demanded never to be judged by events.  Universal silence left him
arbiter of his own terms. In short, at present he is absolute master, and if he can coin twenty
millions may command them.  He does every thing, the Duke of Newcastle gives every thing. 
As long as they can agree in this partition, they may do what they will.

We have been in great anxiety for twenty-four hours to learn the fate of Dresden, and of the
King of resources, as Mr. Beckford called the King of Prussia the other day.  We heard that
while he was galloped to raise the siege of Neiss, Marshal Daun was advanced to Dresden; that
Schmettau had sent to know if he meant to attack it, having orders to burn the Fauxbourgs and
defend it street by street; that Daun not deigning a reply, the Conflagration had been put
in execution; that the King was posting back, and Dohna advancing to join him.  We expect to
hear either of the demolition of the city, or of a bloody decision fought under the walls--an
account is just arrived that Daun(978) is retired, thus probably the campaign is finished,
and another year of massacre to come.  One could not but be anxious at such a crisis-one felt
for Dresden, and pitied the Prince Royal shut up in his own capital, a mere spectator of its
destruction; one trembled for the decisive moment of the life of such a man as the King of
Prussia.  It is put off--yet perhaps he will scarce recover so favourable a moment.  He had
assembled his whole force, except a few thousands left to check the Swedes.  Next year this
force must be again parcelled out against Austrians, Russians, Swedes, and possibly French.
He must be more than a King Of resources if he can for ever weather such tempests!

Knyphausen(979) diverted me yesterday with some anecdotes of the Empress's college of chastity-not
the Russian Empress's. The King of Prussia asked some of his Austrian prisoners whether their
mistress consulted her college of chastity on the letters she wrote (and he intercepted) to
Madame Pompadour.

You have heard some time ago of the death of the Duke of Marlborough.(980)  The estate is forty-five
thousand pounds a-year--nine of which are jointured out.  He paid but eighteen thousand pounds
a-year in joint lives.  This Duke and the estate save greatly by his death, as the present
wants a year of being of age, and would certainly have accommodated his father in agreeing
to sell and pay.  Lord Edgcumbe(981) is dead too, one of the honestest and most steady men
in the world.

I was much diverted with your histories of our Princess(982) and Madame de Woronzow.  Such
dignity as Madame de Craon's wants a little absolute power to support it!  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(977) Lord Chesterfield, writing on the 21st to his son, says, "The King has been ill; but
his illness has terminated in a good fit of the gout.  It was generally thought he would have
died, and for a very good reason; for the oldest lion in the Tower, much about the King's age,
died about a fortnight ago. This extravagancy, I can assure you, was believed by many above
people.  So wild and capricious is the human mind!"-E.

(978) "The King of Prussia has just compelled Daun to raise the siege of Dresden, in spite
of his (the King's) late most disastrous defeat by the same general at Bochkirchen, which had
taken place on the 14th of October, 1758.-D.

(979) The Prussian minister.

(980) Charles Spencer, second Duke of Marlborough.  He died, on the 28th of October at Munster,
in Westphalia.-E.

(981) Richard, first Lord Edgcumbe; an intimate friend of Sir Robert Walpole.

(982) The Princess Craon.

468 Letter 296 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Christmas-day, 1758.

Adieu! my dear Sir--that is, adieu to our correspondence, for I am neither dying nor quarrelling
with you; but as we, Great- Britons, are quarrelling with all Europe, I think very soon I shall
not be able to convey a letter to you, but by the way of Africa, and am afraid the post-offices
are not very well regulated.  In short, we are on the brink of a Dutch war too. Their merchants
are so enraged that we will not only not suffer them to enrich themselves by carrying all the
French trade, and all kinds of military stores to the French settlements, but that they lose
their own ships into the bargain, that they are ready to despatch the Princess Royal(983) into
the other world even before her time; if her death arrives soon, and she is thought in great
danger, it will be difficult for any body else to keep the peace.  Spain and Denmark are in
little better humour--well, if We have not as many lives as a cat or the King of Prussia! 
However, our spirits do not droop; we are raising thirteen millions, we look upon France as
totally undone, and that they have not above five loaves and a few small fishes left; we intend
to take all America from them next summer, and then if Spain and Holland are not terrified,
we shall be at leisure to deal with them.  Indeed, we are rather in a hurry to do all this,
because people may be weary of paying thirteen millions; and besides it may grow decent for
Mr. Pitt to visit his gout, which this year he has been forced to send to the Bath without
him.  I laugh, but seriously we are in a critical situation; and it is as true, that if Mr.
Pitt had not exerted the spirit and activity that he has, we should ere now have been past
a critical situation.  Such a war as ours carried on by my Lord Hardwicke, with the dull dilatoriness
of a Chancery suit, would long ago have reduced us to what suits in Chancery reduce most people!
At present our unanimity is prodigious-- you Would as soon hear No from an old maid as from
the House of Commons--but I don't promise you that this tranquillity will last.(984)  One has
known more ministries overturned of late years by their own squabbles than by any assistance
from Parliaments.

Sir George Lee, formerly an heir-apparent(985) to the ministry is dead.  it was almost sudden,
but he died with great composure.  Lord Arran(986) went off with equal philosophy.  Of the
great house of Ormond there now remains only his sister, Lady Emily Butler, a young heiress
of ninety-nine.

It is with great pleasure I tell you that Mr. Conway is going to Sluys to settle a cartel with
the French.  The commission itself is honourable, but more pleasing as it re-establishes him--I
should say his merit re-establishes him.  All the world now acknowledges it--and the insufficiency
of his brother-generals makes it vain to oppress him any longer.

I am happy that you are pleased with the monument, and vain that you like the Catalogue(987)--if
it would not look too vain, I would tell you that it was absolutely undertaken and finished
within five months.  Indeed, the faults in the first edition and the deficiencies show it was;
I have just printed another more correct.

Of the Pretender's family one never hears a word: unless our Protestant brethren the Dutch
meddle in their affairs, they will be totally forgotten; we have too numerous a breed of our
own, to want Princes from Italy.  The old Chevalier by your account is likely to precede his
rival, who with care may still last a few years, though I think will scarce appear again out
of his own house.

I want to ask you if it is possible to get the royal edition of the Antiquities of Herculaneum?(988)
and I do not indeed want you to get it for me unless I am to pay for it.  Prince San Severino
has told the foreign ministers here that there are to be twelve hundred volumes, of it--and
they believe it.  I imagine the fact is, that there are but twelve hundred copies printed.
Could Cardinal Albani get it for me?  I would send him my Strawberry-editions, and the Birmingham-editions(988)
in exchange--things here much in fashion.

The night before I came from town, we heard of the fall of the Cardinal de Bernis,(989) but
not the cause of it(990)--if we have a Dutch war, how many cardinals will fall in France and
in England, before you hear of these or I of the former!  I have always written to you with
the greatest freedom, because I care more that you should be informed of the state of your
own country, than what secretaries of state or their clerks think of me,--but one must be more
circumspect if the Dey of Algiers is to open one's letters.  Adieu!

(983) The Princess Dowager of Orange, eldest daughter of George II.

(984) Lord Chesterfield, in a letter of the 15th, says, "The estimates for the expenses of
the year 1759 are made up.  I have seen them; and what do you think they amount to?  No less
than twelve millions three hundred thousand pounds: a most incredible sum, and its yet already
all subscribed, and even more offered!  The unanimity in the House of Commons in voting such
a sum, and such forces, both by sea and land, is not less astonishing.  This is Mr. Pitt's
doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes."-E.

(985) Frederick, Prince of Wales, had designed, if he outlived the King, to make Sir George
Lee chancellor of the exchequer.

(986) He was Charles Butler, the second and last surviving son of Thomas, Earl of Ossory, eldest
son of the first Duke of Ormond.  He had been created, in 1693, Baron Clogligrenan, Viscount
Tullough, and Earl of Arran, in Ireland; and at the same time Baron Butler of Weston, in the
Peerage of England. Dying without issue his titles became extinct.-D.

(987) The Catalogue of Royal and Noble Authors.

(988) Editions printed with the Baskerville types.-D.

(989) The Cardinal de Bernis was a frivolous and incapable minister, who was equally raised
and overthrown by the influence of the King of France's mistress, Madame de Pompadour.-D.

(990) "Cardinal Bernis's disgrace," says Lord Chesterfield, "is as sudden, and hitherto as
little understood, as his elevation was.  I have seen his poems printed at Paris, not by a
friend, I dare say; and, to judge by them, I humbly conceive his excellency is a puppy.  I
will say nothing of that excellent headpiece that made him and unmade him in the same month,
except O King, live for ever!"-E.

470 Letter 297 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Dec. 26th, 1758.

it is so little extraordinary to find you doing what is friendly and obliging, that one don't
take half notice enough of it.  Can't you let Mr. Conway go to Sluys without taking notice
of it?  How would you be hurt, if he continued to be oppressed? what is it to you whether I
am glad or sorry?  Can't you enjoy yourself whether I am happy or not'--'@ I suppose If I were
to have a misfortune, you would immediately be concerned at it!  How troublesome it is to have
you sincere and good-natured!  Do be a little more like the rest of the world.

I have been at Strawberry these three days, and don't know a tittle.  The last thing I heard
before I went was that Colonel Yorke is to be married to one or both of the Miss Crasteyns,
nieces of the rich grocer that died three years ago.  They have two hundred and sixty thousand
pounds apiece.  A marchioness-- or a grocer---nothing comes amiss to the digestion of that
family.(991)  If the rest of the trunk was filled with money, I believe they would really marry
Carafattatouadaht--what was the lump of deformity called in the Persian Tales, that was sent
to the lady in a coffer?  And as to marrying both the girls, it would cost my Lord Hardwicke
but a new marriage-bill: I suppose it is all one to his conscience whether he prohibits matrimony
or licenses bigamy.  Poor Sir Charles Williams is relapsed, and strictly confined.

As you come so late, I trust you will stay with us the longer. Adieu!

(991) Colonel Yorke, afterwards Lord Dover, married in 1783 the Dowager Baroness de Boetzalaer,
widow of the first noble of the province of Holland.-E.

471 Letter 298 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Strawberry Hill, Jan. 12, 1759.

Sir, I shall certainly be obliged to you for an account of that piece of Lord Lonsdale:(992)
besides my own curiosity in any thing that relates to a work in which I have engaged so far,
I think it a duty to the public to perfect, as far as one can, whatever one gives to it; and
yet I do not think of another edition; two thousand have peen printed, and though nine hundred
went off at once, it would be presumption in me to expect that the rest will be sold in any
short time.  I only mean to add occasionally to my private copy whatever more I can collect
and correct; and shall perhaps, but leave behind me materials for a future edition, in which
should be included what I have hitherto omitted.  Yet it is very vain in me to expect that
any body should care for such a trifle after the novelty is worn off; I ought to be content
with the favourable reception I have found; so much beyond my first expectations, that, except
in two Magazines, not a word of censure has passed on me in print.  You may easily believe,
Sir, that having escaped a trial, I am not mortified by having dirt thrown at me by children
in the kennel.  With regard to the story of Lord Suffolk, I wish I had been lucky enough to
have mentioned it to you in time, it should not have appeared: yet it was told me by Mr. Mallet,
who did not seem to have any objection that I should even mention his name as the very person
to whom it happened.  I must suppose that Lord Suffolk acted that foolish scene in imitation
of Lord Rochester.(993)

I am happy, Sir, that I have both your approbation to my opinion of Lucan, and to my edition
of him; but I assure you there will not be one word from me.  I am sensible that it demands
great attention to write even one's own language well: how can one pretend to purify a foreign
language? to any merit in a dead one?  I would not alone undertake to correct the press; but
I am so lucky as to live in the strictest friendship with Dr. Bentley's Only Son, Who, to all
the ornament of learning, has the amiable turn of mind, disposition, and easy wit.  Perhaps
you have heard that his drawings and architecture are admirable,--perhaps you have not: he
is modest--he is poor- -he is consequently little known, less valued.

I am entirely ignorant of Dr. Burton and his Monasticon,(994) and after the little merit you
tell me it has, I must explain to you that I have a collection of books of that sort, before
I own that I wish to own it; at the same time, I must do so much justice to myself as to protest
that I don't know so contemptible a class of writers as topographers, not from the study itself,
but from their wretched execution.  Often and often I have had an inclination to show how topography
should be writ, by pointing out the curious particulars of places, with descriptions of principal
houses, the pictures, portraits, and Curiosities they contain.

I scarce ever yet found any thing one wanted to know in one of those books; all they contain,
except encomiums on the Stuarts and the monks, are lists of institutions and inductions, and
inquiries how names of places were spelt before there was any spelling.  If the Monasticon
Eboracense is only to be had at York, I know Mr. Caesar Ward, and can get him to send it to me.

I will add but one short word: from every letter I receive from you, Sir, my opinion of you
increases, and I much wish that so much good sense and knowledge were not thrown away only
on me. I flatter myself that you are engaged, or will engage, in some work or pursuit that
will make you better known.  In the mean time, I hope that some opportunity will bring us personally
acquainted, for I am, Sir, already most sincerely yours, Hor. Walpole.

P. S. You love to be troubled, and therefore I will make no apology for troubling you.  Last
summer, I bought of Vertue's widow forty volumes of his ms. corrections relating to English
painters, sculptors, gravers, and architects.  He had actually begun their lives: unluckily
he had not gone far, and could not write grammar.  I propose to digest and complete this work
(I mean after the Conway Papers).(995)  In the mean time, Sir, shall I beg the favour of you
just to mark down memorandums of the pages where you happen to meet with any thing relative
to these subjects, especially of our antienter buildings, paintings, and artists.  I would
not trouble you for more reference, if even that is not too much.

(992) Mr. Walpole did not insert any notice of Lord Lonsdale in his subsequent editions, though
the omission has been remedied by Mr. Park.  The piece to which Mr. Zouch probably alluded,
the knowledge of which he may have derived from the noble family of Lowther, was " a "Treatise
on Economies" addressed to his son, by Sir John Lowther, created Baron Lonsdale in 1696. This
treatise was never published.-C.

(993) The story here alluded to is told, in the Noble Authors, of Edward Howard, eighth Earl
of Suffolk.  But Mr. Zouch had probably apprised Mr. Walpole, that a similar story had been
told of Lord Rochester.  The Earl is represented as having sent for " a gentleman well known
in the literary world," (Mallet,) upon whom he inflicted the hearing of some of his verses;
but coming to the description of a beautiful woman, he suddenly stopped, and said, "Sir, I
am not like most poets; I do not draw from ideal mistresses; I always have my subject before
me;" and ringing the bell, be said to a footman, "Call up Fine Eyes."  A woman of the town
appeared--"Fine Eyes," said the Earl, "look full on this gentleman."  She did, and retired.
Two or three others of the seraglio were summoned in their turns, and displayed their respective
charms for which they had been distinguished by his lordship's pencil.-C.

(994) Dr. John Burton was a physician and antiquary of Yorkshire, who died in 1771.  His principal
work, here alluded to, is entitled "Monasticon Eboracense."  This work was never completed,
the first volume only having appeared in folio.

(996) Mr. Conway was sent to Sluys to settle a cartel for prisoners with the French.  M. de
Bareil was the person appointed by the French court for the same business.

473 Letter 300 The Hon. H. S. Conway. Arlington Street, Jan. 28, 1759.

You and M. de Bareil may give yourselves what airs you please of settling cartels with expedition:
you don't exchange prisoners with half so much alacrity as Jack Campbell(997) and the Duchess
of Hanillton have exchanged hearts.  I had so little observed the negotiation, Or suspected
any, that when your brother told me of it yesterday morning, I would not believe a tittle--I
beg Mr. Pitt's pardon, not an iota.  It is the prettiest match in the world since yours, and
every body likes it but the Duke of Bridgewater and Lord Coventry. What an extraordinary fate
is attached to those two women!  Who could have believed that a Gunning would unite the two
great houses of Campbell and Hamilton?  For my part, I expect to see my Lady Coventry Queen
of Prussia.  I would not venture to marry either of them these thirty years, for fear of being
shuffled out of the world prematurely, to make room for the rest of their adventures.  The
first time Jack carries the Duchess into the Highlands, I am persuaded that some of his second-sighted
subjects will see him in a winding-sheet, with a train of kings behind him as long as those
in Macbeth.

We had a scrap of a debate on Friday, on the Prussian and Hessian treaties.  Old Vyner opposed
the first, in pity to that poor woman, as he called her, the Empress-Queen.(998)  Lord Strange
objected to the gratuity of sixty thousand pounds to the Landgrave, unless words were inserted
to express his receiving that Sum in full of all demands.  If Hume Campbell had cavilled at
this favourite treaty, Mr. Pitt could scarce have treated him with more haughtiness; and, what
is far more extraordinary, Hume Campbell could scarce have taken it more dutifully.  This long
day was over by half an hour after four.

As you and M. de Bareil are on such amicable terms, you will take care to soften to him a new
conquest we have made.  Keppel has taken the island of Goree.  You great ministers know enough
Of its importance: I need not detail it.  Before your letters came we had heard of the death
of the Princess Royal:(999) you will find us black and all black.  Lady Northumberland and
the great ladies put off their assemblies: diversions begin again to-morrow with the mourning.

You perceive London cannot furnish half so long a letter as the little town of Sluys; at least
I have not the art of making one out.  In truth, I believe I should not have writ this unless
Lady Ailesbury had bid me; but she does not care how much trouble it gives me, provided it
amuses you for a moment.  Good night!

P. S. I forgot to tell you that the King has granted my Lord Marischall's pardon, at the request
of M. de Knyphausen.(1000) I believe the Pretender himself could get his attainder reversed
if he would apply to the King of Prussia.

(997) Afterwards Duke of Argyle.

(998) "There never was so quiet or so silent a session of Parliament as the present: Mr. Pitt
declares only what he would have them do, and they do it, nemine contradicente, Mr. Vyner only
excepted."  Lord Chesterfield.-E.

(999) The Princess of Orange died on the 12th of January.-E.

(1000) By a letter from Sir Andrew Mitchell, of the 8th of January, in the Chatham correspondence,
it will be seen that the Lord of Marischal's pardon was granted at the earnest request of the
King of Prussia, who said he " should consider it as a personal favour done to himself." The
Earl Marischal was attainted for his share in the rebellion of 1715.-E.

475 Letter 301 To John Chute, Esq.(1001) Arlington Street, Feb. 1, 1759.

Well! my dear Sir, I am now convinced that both Mr. Keate's panic and mine were ill-founded;
but pray, another time, don't let him be afraid of being afraid for fear of frightening me:
on the contrary, if you will dip your gout in lemonade, I hope I shall be told of it. If you
have not had it in Your stomach, it is not your fault: drink brandy, and be thankful.  I would
desire you to come to town, but I must rather desire you not to have a house to come to.  Mrs.
H. Grenville is passionately enamoured of yours, and begged I would ask you what will be the
lowest price, with all the particulars, which I assured her you had stated very ill for yourself.
I don't quite like this commission; if you part with your house in town, you will never come
hither; at least, stow your cellars with drams and gunpowder as full as Guy Fawkcs's-you will
be drowned if you don't blow yourself up.  I don't believe that the Vine is within the verge
of the rainbow: seriously, it is too damp for you. Colonel Campbell marries the Duchess of
Hamilton forthwith. the house of Argyle is CONTENT, and think that the head of the Hamilton's
had purified the blood of Gunning; but I should be afraid that his grace was more likely to
corrupt blood than to mend it.

Never was any thing so crowded as the house last night for the Prussian cantata; the King was
hoarse, and could not go to Sing his own praises.  The dancers seemed transplanted from Sadler's
Wells; there were milkmaids riding on dolphins; Britain and Prussia kicked the King of France
off the stage, and there was a petit-maitre with his handkerchief full of holes; but this vulgarism
happily was hissed.

I am deeper than ever in Gothic antiquities: I have bought a monk of Glastonbury's chair, full
of scraps of the Psalms; and some seals of most reverend illegibility.  I pass all my mornings
in the thirteenth century, and my evenings with the century that is coming on.  Adieu!

(1001) Now first printed.

475 Letter 302 To John Chute, Esq.(1002) Arlington Street, Feb. 2, 1759.

My dear sir, I am glad to see your writing again, and can now laugh very cordially at my own
fright, which you take a great deal too kindly.  I was not quite sure you would like my proceedings,
but just then I could not help it, and perhaps my natural earnestness had more merit than my
friendship; and yet it is worth my while to save a friend if I think I can--I have not so many!
You yourself are in a manner lost to me!  I must not, cannot repine at your having a fortune
that delivers you from uneasy connexions with a world that is sure to use ill those that have
any dependence on it; but undoubtedly some of the satisfaction that you have acquired is taken
out of my scale; I will not, however, moralize, though I am in a very proper humour for it,
being just come home from an outrageous crowd at Northumberland-house, where there were five
hundred people, that would have been equally content or discontent with any other five hundred.
This is pleasure!  You invite so many people to your house, that you are forced to have constables
at your door to keep the peace; just as the royal family, when they hunted, used to be attended
by surgeons.  I allow honour and danger to keep company with one another, but diversion and
breaking one's neck are strangely ill-matched.  Mr. Spence's Magliabechi(1003) is published
to-day from Strawberry; I believe you saw it, and shall have it; but 'tis not worth sending
you on purpose.  However, it is full good enough for the generality of readers.  At least there
is a proper dignity in my saying so, who have been so much abused in all the magazines lately
for my Catalogue.  The points in dispute lie in a very narrow compass: they think I don't understand
English, and I am sure they don't: yet they will not be convinced, for I shall certainly not
take the pains to set them right.  Who them are I don't know; the highest, I believe, are Dr.
Smollet, or some chaplain of my uncle.

Adieu! I was very silly to alarm you so; but the wisest of' us, from Solomon to old Carr's
cousin, are poor souls!  May be you don't know any thing of Carr's cousin.  Why then, Carr's
cousin was--I don't know who; but Carr was very ill, and had a cousin, as I may be, to sit
up with her.  Carr had not slept for many nights--at last she dozed--her cousin jogged her:
"Cousin, cousin!"--"Well!" said Carr, "what would you have?"--"Only, cousin, if you die where
will you be buried?"  This resemblance mortifies me ten times more than a thousand reviews
could do: there is nothing in being abused by Carr's cousin, but it is horrid to be like Carr's
cousin Good night!

(1002) Ibid.

(1003) Mr. Spence's Parallel of Magliabechi and Hill.-E.

476 Letter 303 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 9, 1759.

The Dutch have not declared war and interrupted our correspondence, and yet it seems ceased
as if we had declared war with one another.  I have not heard from you this age--how happens
it?  I have not seized any ships of yours--you carry on no counterband trade--oh! perhaps you
are gone incognito to Turin, are determined to have a King of Prussia of your own!  I expect
to hear that the King of Sardinia, accompanied by Sir Horace Mann, the British minister, suddenly
appeared before Parma at the head of an hundred thousand men, that had been privately landed
at Leghorn.  I beg, as Harlequin did when he had a house to sell, that you will send me a brick,
as a sample of the first town you take-the Strawberry-press shall be preparing a congratulatory
ode.

The Princess Royal has been dead some time: and yet the Dutch and we continue in amity, and
put on our weepers together.  In the mean time our warlike eggs have been some time under the
hen, and one has hatched and produced Gor`ee.  The expedition, called to Quebec, departs on
Tuesday next, under Wolfe, and George Townshend, who has thrust himself again into the service,
and as far as wrongheadedness will go, very proper for a hero.  Wolfe, who was no friend of
Mr. Conway last year, and for whom I consequently have no affection, has great merit, spirit,
and alacrity, and shone extremely at Louisbourg.  I am not such a Juno but I will forgive him
after eleven more labours.(1004)  Prince Edward asked to go with them, but was refused.  It
is clever in him to wish to distinguish himself; I, who have no partiality to royal blood,
like his good-nature and good-breeding.

Except the horrid Portuguese histories, that between Jesuits(1005) and executions make one's
blood run hot and cold, we have no news.  The Parliament has taken a quieting-draught. Of private
story, the Duchess of Hamilton is going to marry Colonel Campbell, Lady Ailesbury's brother.
It is a match that would not disgrace Arcadia.  Her beauty has made sufficient noise, and in
some people's eyes is even improved--he has a most pleasing countenance, person, and manner,
and if they could but carry to Scotland some of our sultry English weather, they might restore
the ancient pastoral life, when fair Kings and queens reigned at once over their subjects and
their sheep. Besides, exactly like antediluvian lovers, they reconcile contending clans, the
great houses of Hamilton and Campbell-and all this is brought about by a GUnning!  I talked
of our sultry weather, and this is no air.  While Italy, I suppose, is buried in snow, we are
extinguishing fires, and panting for breath. In short, we have had a wonderful winter--beyond
an earthquake winter-we shall soon be astonished at frost, like an Indian. Shrubs and flowers
and blossoms are all in their pride; I am not sure that in some counties the corn is not cut.

I long to hear from you; I think I never was so long without a letter.  I hope it is from no
bad reason.  Adieu!

(1004) Speaking of Wolfe in his Memoires, Walpole says, "Ambition, industry, passion for the
service, were conspicuous in him. He seemed to breathe for nothing but fame, and lost no moments
in qualifying himself to compass that object. Presumption on himself was necessary for his
object, and he had it.  He was formed to execute the designs of such a master as Pitt."-E.

(1005) The strange and mysterious conspiracy against the life of the King of Portugal, which
was attempted as he was going, one night through the streets of Lisbon in his coach. many Jesuits
were put to death for it, and also several of the noble families of the Dukes d'Aveiro, and
Marquises of Tavora.-D. [See ant`e, p. 456, letter 289.]

478 Letter 304 To Mr. Gray. Arlington Street, Feb. 15, 1759

The enclosed, which I have this minute received from Mr. Bentley, explains much that I had
to say to you-yet I have a question or two more.

Who and what sort of a man is a Mr. Sharp of Benet?  I have received a most obliging and genteel
letter from him, with the very letter of Edward VI. which you was so good as to send me. I
answered his, but should like to know a little more about him.  Pray thank the Dean of Lincoln
too for me: I am much obliged to him for his offer, but had rather draw upon his Lincolnship
than his Cambridgehood.(1006)  In the library of the former are some original letters of Tiptoft,
as you will find in my Catalogue.  When Dr. Greene is there, I shall be glad if he will let
me have them copied.

I will thank you if you will look in some provincial history of Ireland for Odo (Hugh) Oneil,
King of Ulster.  When did he live?  I have got a most curious seal of his, and know no more
of him than of Ouacraw King of the Pawwaws.

I wanted to ask you, whether you, or anybody that you believe in, believe in the Queen of Scots'
letter to Queen Elizabeth.(1007)  If it is genuine, I don't wonder she cut her head off--but
I think it must be some forgery that was not made use of.

Now to my distress.  You must have seen an advertisement perhaps the book itself, the villanous
book itself, that has been published to defend me against the Critical Review.(1008) I have
been childishly unhappy about it, and had drawn up a protestation or affidavit of my knowing
nothing of it; but my friends would not let me publish it.  I sent to the printer, who would
not discover the author--nor could I guess.  They tell me nobody can suspect my being privy
to It but there is an intimacy affected that I think will deceive many--and yet I must be the
most arrogant fool living, if I could know and suffer any body to speak of me in that style.
For God's sake do all you can for me, and publish my abhorrence.  To-day I am told that it
Is that puppy Dr. Hill, who has chosen to make war with the magazines through my sides.  I
could pardon him any abuse, but I never can forgive this friendship.  Adieu!

(1006 He was master of Benet College, Cambridge.

(1007) See Murden's State Papers, p. 558, for this curious letter.

(1008) It was called "Observations on the account given of the Catalogue of Royal and Noble
Authors of England, etc. etc. in article v'- of the Critical review, No. xxv. December, 1758,
where the unwarrantable liberties taken with that work, and the honourable author of it, are
examined and exposed."

479  Letter 305 To The Right Hon. Lady hervey. Feb. 20, 1759.

I met with this little book t'other day by chance, and it pleased me so much that I cannot
help lending it to your ladyship, as I know it will amuse you from the same causes.  It contains
many of those important truths which history is too proud to tell, and too dull from not telling.

Here Grignon's soul the living canvass warms: Here fair Fontagno assumes unfading charms: Here
Mignard's pencil bows to female wit; Louis rewards, but ratifies Fayette: The philosophic duke,
and painter too, Thought from her thoughts--from her ideas drew.

(1009) Now first collected.

(1010) Dr. Robertson's "History of Scotland during the Reigns of Mary and James the Sixth,"
was published in the beginning of this month.-E.

(1011) Alan Ramsay, the eminent portrait-painter, and eldest son of the poet; on whose death,
in 1757, in somewhat embarrassed circumstances, he paid his debts.  He was an excellent classical
scholar, understood French and Italian, and had all the polish and liberal feeling of a highly
instructed man.  In Bouquet's pamphlet on "The Present State of the Fine Arts in England,"
published in 1755, he is described as "an able painter, who, acknowledging no other guide than
nature, brought a rational taste of resemblance with him from Italy." He died in 1784.-E.

480 Letter 307 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, March 1, 1759.

I know you are ministerial enough, or patriot enough, (two words that it is as much the fashion
to couple now as it was formerly to part them,) to rejoice over the least bit of a conquest,
and therefore I hurry to send you a morsel of Martinico, which you may lay under your head,
and dream of having taken the whole island.  As dreams often go by contraries, you must not
be surprised if you wake and find we have been beaten back; but at this present moment, we
are all dreaming of victory.  A frigate has been taken going to France with an account that
our troops landed on the island on the 16th of January, without opposition.  A seventy-gun
ship was dismissed at the same time, which is thought a symptom of their not meaning to resist.
It certainly is not Mr. Pitt's fault if we have not great success; and if we have, it is certainly
owing to him.  The French talk of invading us; I hope they will not come quite so near either
to victory or defeat, as to land on our Martinico! But you are going to have a war of your
own. Pray send me all your gazettes extraordinary.  I wish the King of Sardinia's heroism may
not be grown a little rusty.  Time was when he was the only King in Europe that had fought
in his waistcoat; but now the King of Prussia has almost made it part of their coronation oath.
Apropos, pray remember that the Emperor's pavilion is not the Emperor's pavillon; though you
are so far in the right, that he may have a pavilion, but I don't conceive how he comes by
a pavillon.  What Tuscan colours has he, unless a streamer upon the belfry at Leghorn?  You
was so deep in politics when you wrote your last letter, that it was almost in cipher, and
as I don't happen to have a key to bad writing, I could not read a word that interests my vanity
extremely-I unravelled enough to learn that a new governor(1012) of Milan is a great admirer
of me, but I could not guess at one syllable of his name, and it is very uncomfortable in a
dialogue between one's pride and oneself, to be forced to talk of Governor What-d'ye-call-em,
who has so good a taste.  I think you never can have a more important occasion for despatching
a courier than to tell me Governor - -'s name.  In the mean time, don't give him any more Strawberry
editions; of some I print very few, they are all begged immediately, and then you will not
have a complete set, as I wish you to have, notwithstanding all my partiality for the governor
of Milan.  Perhaps, upon the peace I may send him a set richly bound! I am a little more serious
in what I am going to say; you will oblige me if at your leisure you will pick up for me all
or any little historical tracts that relate to the house of Medici.  I have some distant thoughts
of writing their history, and at the peace may probably execute what you know I have long retained
in my wish, another journey to Florence. Stosch, I think, had great collections relating to
them; would they sell a separate part of his library?  Could I get at any state letters and
papers there?  Do think of this; I assure you I do Thank you for the trouble you have taken
about the Neapolitan books, and for the medals that are coming.

Colonel Campbell and the Duchess of Hamilton are married.  My sister(1013) who was at the Opera
last Tuesday, and went from thence to a great ball at the Duke of Bridgewater's, where she
stayed till three in the morning, was brought to bed in less than four hours afterwards of
a fifth boy: she has had two girls, too, and I believe left it entirely to this child to choose
what it would be.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(1012) Count Firmian, who understood English, and was fond of English authors.  Sir Horace
Mann had given him the Royal and Noble Authors.

(1013) Lady Mary Churchill, only daughter of Sir Robert Walpole by his second wife.

481 Letter 308 To John Chute, Esq.(1014) Arlington Street, March 13, 1759.

I am puzzled to know how to deal with you: I hate to be Officious, it has a horrid look; and
to let you alone till you die at the Vine of mildew, goes against my conscience, Don't it go
against yours to keep all your family there till they are mouldy?  Instead of sending you a
physician, I will send you a dozen brasiers; I am persuaded that you want to be dried and aired
more than physicked.  For God's sake don't stay there any longer:--

"Mater Cyrene, mater quae gurgitis hujus Ima tenes--"

send him away!--Nymphs and Jew doctors!  I don't know what I shall pray to next against your
obstinacy.

No more news yet from Guadaloupe!  A persecution seems to be raising against General Hobson--I
don't wonder!  Wherever Commodore Moore is, one may expect treachery and blood.  Good night!

(1014) Now first printed.

482 Letter 309 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Arlington Street, March 15, 1759.

Sir, You judge very rightly, Sir, that I do not intend to meddle with accounts of religious
houses; I should not think of them at all unless I could learn the names of any of the architects,
not of the founders.  It is the history of our architecture that I should search after, especially
the beautiful Gothic.  I have by no means digested the plan of my intended work.  The materials
I have ready in great quantities in Vertue's MSS.; but he has collected little with regard
to our architects, except Inigo Jones.  As our painters have been very indifferent, I must,
to make the work interesting, make it historical; I would mix it with anecdotes of patrons
of the arts, and with dresses and customs from old pictures. something in the manner of Moulfaucon's
Antiquities of France.  I think it capable of being made a very amusing work, but I don't know
whether I shall ever bestow the necessary time on it.  At present, even my press is at a stop,
my printer, who was a foolish Irishman, and who took himself for a genius, and who grew angry
when I thought him extremely the former, and not the least of the latter, has left me, and
I have Not yet fixed upon another.

In what edition, Sir, of Beaumont and Fletcher, is the copy of verses you mention, signed "Grandison?"(1015)
They are not in mine.  In my Catalogue I mention the Countess of Montgomery's Eusebia; I shall
be glad to know what her Urania is. I fear you will find little satisfaction in a library of
noble works.  I have got several, some duplicates, that shall be at your service if you continue
Your collection; but in general they are mere curiosities.

Mr. Hume has published his History of the House of Tudor.  I have not advanced far in it, but
it appears an inaccurate and careless, as it certainly has been a very hasty, performance.
Adieu! Sir.

(1015) There has been some mistake here.  Amidst the vast number of verses to Beaumont and
Fletcher, none are found with this signature.  There is one copy signed Gardiner.-C.

482 Letter 310 To Sir David Dalrymple.(1016) Strawberry Hill, March 25, 1759.

I should not trouble you, Sir, so soon again with a letter, but some questions and some passages
in yours seem to make it necessary. I know nothing of the Life of Gustavus, nor heard of it,
before it was advertised.  Mr. Harte(1017) was a favoured disciple of Mr. Pope, whose obscurity
he imitated more than his lustre.  Of the History of the Revival of Learning I have not heard
a word.  Mr. Gray a few years ago began a poem on that subject; but dropped it, thinking it
would cross too much upon some parts of the Dunciad.  It would make a signal part of a History
of Learning which I lately proposed to Mr. Robertson. Since I wrote to him, another subject
has started to me, which would make as agreeable a work, both to the writer and to the reader,
as any I could think of; and would be a very tractable one, because capable of being extended
or contracted as the author should please.  It is the History of the House of Medici.(1018)
There is an almost unknown republic, factions, banishment, murders, commerce, conquests, heroes,
cardinals, all of a new stamp, and very different from what appear in any other country.  There
is a scene of little polite Italian courts, where gallantry and literature were uncommonly
blended, particularly in that of Urbino, which without any violence might make an episode.
The Popes on the greater plan enter of course.  What a morsel Leo the Tenth! the revival of
letters!(1019) the torrent of Greeks that imported them! Extend still farther, there are Catherine
and Mary, Queens of France. In short, I know nothing one could wish in a subject that would
not fall into this--and then it is a Complete Subject, the family is extinct: even the state
is so, as a separate dominion.

I could not help smiling, Sir, at being taxed with insincerity for my encomiums on Scotland.
They were given in a manner a little too serious to admit of irony, and (as partialities cannot
be supposed entirely ceased) with too much risk of disapprobation in this part of the world,
not to flow from my heart.  My friends have long known my opinion on this point, and it is
too much formed on fact for me to retract it, if I were so disposed.  With regard to the magazines
and reviews, I can say with equal and great truth, that I have been much more hurt at a gross
defence of me than by all that railing.

Mallet still defers his life of the Duke of Marlborough;(1020) I don't know why: sometimes
he says he will stay till the peace; sometimes that he is translating it, or having it translated
into French, that he may not lose that advantage.

(1016) Now first collected.

(1017) Walter Harte was tutor to Mr. Stanhope, Lord Chesterfield's natural son, and through
bis lordship's interest made canon of Windsor.  Dr. Johnson describes him as a scholar, and
a man of the most companionable talents he had ever known." See Boswell, vol. viii. p. 53.
Lord Chesterfield writes to his son, on the 30th of March, "Harte's work will, upon the whole,
be a very curious and valuable history.  You will find it dedicated to one of your acquaintance,
who was forced to prune the luxuriant praises bestowed upon him, and yet has left enough of
all conscience to satisfy a reasonable man."-E.

(1018) It was afterwards written in five volumes in quarto, from authentic documents furnished
by the Great-Duke himself. It was published in Florence in 1781, and was entitled "Istoria
del Gran Ducato di Toscana sotto il Governo delta Casa Medici, per Riguccio Galuzzi."-E.

(1019) Mr. Roscoe's Life of Lorenzo do' Medici appeared in 1796, and his Life and Pontificate
of Leo the Tenth in 1805.-E.

(1020) See vol. i. p. 393, letter 151.

484 Letter 311 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 11, 1759.

I have waited and waited, in hopes of sending you the rest of Martinico or Guadaloupe; nothing
else, as you guessed, has happened, or I should -have told you.  But at present I can stay
no longer, for I, who am a little more expeditious than a squadron, have made a conquest myself,
and in less than a month since the first thought started.  I hurry to tell you, lest you should
go and consult the map of Middlesex, to see -whether I have any dispute about boundaries with
the neighbouring Prince of Isleworth, or am likely to have fitted out a secret expedition upon
Hounslow Heath--in short, I have married, that is, am marrying, my niece Maria,(1021) my brother's
second daughter, to Lord Waldegrave.(1022)  What say you?  A month ago I was told he liked
her.--does he? I jumbled them together, and he has Already proposed.  For character and credit,
he is the first match in England-for beauty, I think she is.  She has not a fault in her face
and person, and the detail is charming.  A warm complexion tending to brown, fine eyes, brown
hair, fine teeth, and infinite wit and vivacity.  Two things are odd in this match; he seems
to have been doomed to a Maria Walpole--if his father had lived, he had married my sister;(1023)
and this is the second of my brother's daughters that has married into the house of Stuart.
Mr. Keppel(1024) comes from Charles, Lord Waldegrave from James II.  My brother has luckily
been tractable, and left the whole management to me.  My family don't lose any rank or advantage,
when they let me dispose of them--a knight of the garter for my niece; 150,000 pounds for my
Lord Orford if he would have taken her;(1025) these are not trifling establishments.

It were miserable after this to tell you that Prince Ferdinand has cut to pieces two or three
squadrons of Austrians.  I frame to myself that if I was commander-in-chief.  I should on a
sudden appear in the middle of Vienna, and oblige the Empress to give an Archduchess with half
a dozen provinces to some infant prince or other, and make a peace before the bread wagons
were come up.  Difficulties are nothing; all depends on the sphere in which one is placed.

You must excuse my altitudes I feel myself very impertinent just now, but as I know it, I trust
I shall not be more so than is becoming.

The Dutch cloud is a little dispersed; the privy council have squeezed out some rays of sunshine
by restoring One Of' their ships, and by adjudging that we captors should prove the affirmative
of contraband goods, instead of the goods proving themselves so: just as if one was ordered
to believe that if a blackamoor is christened Thomas, he is a white.  These distinctions are
not quite adapted to the meridian of a flippant English privateer's comprehensions: however,
the murmur is not great yet.  I don't know what may betide if the minister should order the
mob to be angry with the Ministry, nor whether Mr. Pitt or the mob will speak first.  He is
laid up with the gout, and it is as much as the rest of the administration can do to prevent
his flying out.  I am sorry, after you have been laying in such bales of Grotius and Puffendorf,
that you must be forced to correct the text by a Dutch comment.  You shall have the pamphlet
you desire, and Lord Mansfield's famous answer to the Prussian manifesto, (I don't know whether
it is in French,) but you must now read Hardwickius usum Batavorum.(1026)

We think we have lost Fort St. David, but have some scanty hopes of a victorious codicil, as
our fleet there seems to have had the superiority.  The King of Spain is certainly not dead,
and the Italian war in appearance is blown over.  This summer, I think, must finish all war,
for who will have men, who will have money to furnish another campaign?  Adieu!

P. S. Mr. Conway has got the first regiment of dragoons on Hawley's death.

(1021) Maria, second daughter of Sir Edward Walpole, afterwards married to William Henry, Duke
of Gloucester, brother of King George III.

(1022) James, second Earl of Waldegrave, knight of the garter, and governor of George Prince
of Wales, afterwards George III.

(1023) Lady Maria Churchill, daughter of Sir Robert Walpole.

(1024) Frederick Keppel, fourth son of William Anne, Earl of Albemarle, by Lady Anne Lennox,
daughter of the first Duke of Richmond.

(1025) Miss Nichols, afterwards Marchioness of Carnarvon.

(1026) Philip Yorke, Earl of Hardwicke.

485 Letter 312 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, April 26, 1759.

Your brother, your Wetenhalls, and the ancient Baron and Baroness Dacre of the South, are to
dine with me at Strawberry Hill next Sunday.  Divers have been the negotiations about it: your
sister, you know, is often impeded by a prescription or a prayer; and I, on the other hand,
who never rise in the morning, have two balls on my hands this week to keep me in bed the next
day till dinner-time.  Well, it is charming to be so young! the follies of the town are so
much more agreeable than the wisdom of my brethren the authors, that I think for the future
I shall never write beyond a card, nor print beyond Mrs. Clive's benefit tickets.  Our great
match approaches; I dine at Lord Waldegrave's presently, and suppose I shall then hear the
day.  I have quite reconciled my Lady Townshend to the match (saving her abusing us all), by
desiring her to choose my wedding clothes; but I am to pay the additional price of being ridiculous.
to which I submit; she has chosen me a white ground with green flowers.  I represented that,
however young my spirits may be, my bloom is rather past; but the moment I declared against
juvenile colours, I found it was determined I should have nothing else: so be it. T'other night
I had an uncomfortable situation with the duchess of Bedford: we had played late at loo at
Lady Joan Scot's; I came down stairs with their two graces of Bedford and Grafton: there was
no chair for me: I said I will walk till I meet one. "Oh!" said the Duchess of Grafton, "the
Duchess of Bedford will set you down:" there were we charmingly awkward and complimenting:
however, she was forced to press it, and I to accept it; in a minute she spied a hackney chair--"Oh!
there is a chair,-but I beg your pardon, it looks as if I wanted to get rid of you, but indeed
I don't; only I am afraid the Duke will want his supper."  You may imagine how much I was afraid
of making him wait.  The ball at Bedford-house, on Monday, was very numerous and magnificent.
The two Princes were there, deep hazard, and the Dutch deputies, who are a proverb for their
dulness: they have brought with them a young Dutchman, who is the richest man of Amsterdam.
I am amazed Mr. Yorke has not married him! But the delightful part of the night was the appearance
of the Duke of Newcastle, who is veering round again, as it is time to betray Mr. Pitt.  The
Duchess(1027) was at the very upper end of the gallery, and though some of the Pelham court
were there too, yet they showed so little cordiality to this revival of connexion, that Newcastle
had nobody to attend him but Sir Edward Montagu, who kept pushing him all up the gallery. 
From thence he went into the hazard-room, and wriggle(], and shuffled, and lisped, and winked,
and spied, till he got behind the Duke of Cumberland, the Duke of Bedford, and Rigby; the first
of whom did not deign to notice him; but he must come to it.  You would have died to see Newcastle's
pitiful and distressed figure,--nobody went near him: he tried to flatter people, that were
too busy to mind him; in short, he was quite disconcerted; his treachery used to be so sheathed
in folly, that he was never out of countenance; but it is plain he grows old.  To finish his
confusion and anxiety, George Selwyn, Brand, and I, went and stood near him, and in half whispers,
that he might hear, said, "Lord, how he is broke! how old he looks!" then I said, "This room
feels very cold: I believe there never is a fire in it."  Presently afterwards I said, "Well,
I'll not stay here; this room has been washed to-day." In short, I believe we made him take
a double dose of Gascoign's powder when he went home.  Next night Brand and I communicated
this interview to Lord Temple, who was in agonies; and yesterday his chariot was seen in forty
different parts of the town.  I take it for granted that Fox will not resist these overtures,
and then we shall have the paymastership, the secretaryship of Ireland, and all Calcraft's
regiments once more afloat.

May 1.

I did not finish this letter last week, for the picture could not set out till next Thursday.
Your kin brought Lord Mandeville with them to Strawberry; he was very civil and good-humoured,
and I trust I was so too.  My nuptialities dined here yesterday.  The wedding is fixed for
the 15th.  The town, who saw Maria set out in the Earl's coach, concluded it was yesterday.
He notified his marriage to the Monarch last Saturday, and it was received civilly.  Mrs. Thornhill
is dead, and I am inpatient to hear the fate of Miss Mildmay.  the Princes Ferdinand and Henry
have been skirmishing, have been beaten, and have beat, but with no decision.

The ball at Mr. Conolly's(1028) was by no means delightful. the house is small, it was hot,
and was composed Of young Irish. I was retiring when they went to supper, but was fetched back
to sup with Prince Edward and the Duchess of Richmond, who is his present passion.  He had
chattered as much love to her as would serve ten balls.  The conversation turned on the Guardian--most
unfortunately the Prince asked her if she should like Mr. Clackit--"No, indeed, Sir,"  said
the Duchess.  Lord Tavistock(1029) burst out into a loud laugh, and I am afraid none of the
company quite kept their countenances.  Adieu! This letter is gossiping enough for any Mrs.
Clackit, but I know you love these details.

(1027) Gertrude Duchess of Bedford, daughter of Earl Gower.

(1028) Thomas Conolly, Esq., son of Lady Anne Conolly, sister of Thomas Earl of Strafford,
and who inherited great part of her brother's property.  Mr. Conolly was married to Lady Louisa
Lenox, sister of the Duke of Richmond, and of Lady Holland. They died without issue.-E.

(1029) Francis Marquis of Tavistock, only son of John Duke of Bedford.  He died before his
father, in 1767, in consequence of a fall from his horse when hunting.-E.

487 Letter 313 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, May 10, 1759.

The laurels we began to plant in Guadaloupe do not thrive--we have taken half the island, and
despair of the other half which we are gone to take.  General Hobson is dead, and many of our
men-it seems all climates are not equally good for conquest-Alexander and Caesar would have
looked wretchedly after a yellow fever! A hero that would have leaped a rampart, would perhaps
have shuddered at the thought of being scalped. Glory will be taken in its own way, and cannot
reconcile itself to the untoward barbarism of America. In short, if we don't renounce expeditions,
our history will be a journal of miscarriages.  What luck must a general have that escapes
a flux, or being shot abroad--or at home! How fatal a war has this been! From Pondicherry to
Canada, from Russia to Senegal, the world has been a great bill of mortality?  The King of
Prussia does not appear to have tapped his campaign yet--he was slow last year; it is well
if he concludes this as thunderingly as he did the last.  Our winter-politics are drawn to
the dregs.  The King is gone to Kensington, and the Parliament is going out of town.  The ministers
who don't agree, will, I believe, let the war decide their squabbles too.  Mr. Pitt will take
Canada and the cabinet-council together, or miscarry in both.  There are Dutch deputies here,
who are likely to be here some time: their negotiations are not of an epigrammatic nature.
and we are in no hurry to decide on points which we cannot well give up, nor maintain without
inconvenience.  But it is idle to describe what describes itself by not being concluded.

I have received yours of the 7th of last month, and fear you are quite in the right about a
history of the house of Medici-- yet it is pity it should not be written!(1030)  You don't,
I know, want any spur to incite you to remember me and any commission with which I trouble
you; and therefore you must not take it in that light, but as the consequence of my having
just seen the Neapolitan book of Herculaneum, that I mention it to you again.  Though it is
far from being finely engraved, yet there are bits in It that make me wish much to have it,
and if you could procure it for me, I own I should be pleased.  Adieu! my dear Sir.

(1030) See ant`e, p. 483, letter 310.

488 Letter 314 To The Rev. Henry Zouch. Strawberry Hill, May 14, 1759.

Sir, You accuse me with so much delicacy and with so much seeming justice, that I must tell
you the truth, cost me what it will. It is in fact, I own, that I have been silent, not knowing
what to say to you, or how not to say something about your desire that I would attend the affair
of the navigation of Calder in Parliament.  In truth, I scarce ever do attend private business
on solicitation.  If I attend, I cannot help forming an opinion, and when formed I do not care
not to be guided by it, and at the same time it is very unpleasant to vote against a person
whom one went to serve.  I know nothing of the merits of the navigation in question, and it
would have given me great pain to have opposed, as it might have happened, a side espoused
by one for whom I had conceived such an esteem as I have for you, Sir.  I did not tell you
my scruples, because you might have thought them affected, and because, to say the truth, I
choose to disguise them.  I have seen too much of the parade of conscience to expect that an
ostentation of it in me should be treated with uncommon lenity.  I cannot help having scruples;
I can help displaying them; and now, sir, that I have made you my confessor, I trust you will
keep my secret for my sake, and give me absolution for what I have committed against you.

I certainly do propose to digest the materials that Vertue had collected(1031) relating to
English arts; but doubting of the merit of the subject, as you do, Sir, and not proposing to
give myself much trouble about it, I think, at present, that I shall still call the work his.
However, at your leisure, I shall be much obliged to you for any hints.  For nobler or any
other game, I don't think of it; I am sick of the character of author; I am sick of the consequences
of it; I am weary Of Seeing my name in the newspapers; I am tired with reading foolish criticisms
on me, and as foolish defences of me; and I trust my friends will be so good as to let the
last abuse of me pass unanswered.  It is called "Remarks" on my Catalogue, asperses the Revolution
more than it does my book, and, in one word, is written by a non-juring preacher, who was a
dog-doctor.  Of me he knows so little, that he thinks to punish me by abusing King William!
Had that Prince been an author, perhaps I might have been a little ungentle to him too.  I
am not dupe enough to think that any body wins a crown for the sake of the people.  Indeed,
I am Whig enough to be glad to be abused; that is, that any body may write what they please;
and though the Jacobites are the only men who abuse outrageously that liberty of the press
which all their labours tend to demolish, I would not have the nation lose such a blessing
for their impertinences.  That their spirit and projects revive is certain.  All the histories
of England, Hume's, as you observe, and Smollett's more avowedly, are calculated to whiten
the house of Stuart.  All the magazines are elected to depress writers of the other side, and
as it has been learnt within these few days, France is preparing an army of commentators1032)
to illustrate the works of those professors. But to come to what ought to be a particular part
of this letter.  I am very sensible, Sir, to the confidence you place in me, and shall assuredly
do nothing to forfeit it; at the same time, I must take the liberty you allow me, of making
some objections to your plan.  As your friend, I must object to the subject.  It is heroic
to sacrifice one's own interest to do good, but I would be sure of doing some before I offered
myself up.  You will make enemies; are you sure you shall make proselytes?  I am ready to believe
you have no ambition now-- but may you not have hereafter? Are bishops corrigible or placable?
Few men are capable of forgiving being told their faults in private; who can bear being told
of them publicly?- -Then, you propose to write in Latin: that is, you propose to be read by
those only whom you intend to censure, and whose interest it will be to find faults in your
work.  If I proposed to attack the clergy, I would at least call in the laity to hear my arguments,
and I fear the laity do not much listen to Latin.  In Short, Sir, I wish much to see something
of your writing, and consequently I wish to see it in a shape in which it would give me most
pleasure.

You will say, that your concealing your name is an answer to all I have said.  A bad author
may be concealed, but then what good does he do? I am persuaded you would write well-ask your
heart, Sir, if you then would like to conceal yourself. Forgive my frankness; I am not old,
but I have lived long enough to be sure that I give you good advice.  There -is lately published
a voluminous history of Gustavus Adolphus, sadly written, yet very amusing from the matter.

(1031) Mr. Walpole, in his dedication of the "Anecdotes of painting," says, he is rather an
Editor than an Author; but much as he certainly derived from Vertue, his own share in this
interesting work entitles him to the thanks of every lover of the fine arts, and of British
antiquities.-C.

(1032) The French were at this time attempting to play the farce of invasion.  Flat-bottomed
boats were building in all the ports of Normandy and Brittany, calculated to transport an army
of a hundred thousand men.-C.

489 Letter 315 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, May 16, 1759.

I packed up a long letter to you in the case with the Earl of Manchester, which I suppose did
not arrive at Greatworth before you left it.  Don't send for it, for there are private histories
in it, that should not travel post, and which will be full as new to you a month hence.

Well! Maria was married yesterday.  Don't we manage well!  the original day was not once put
off: lawyers and milliners were all ready canonically.  It was as sensible a wedding as ever
was.  There was neither form nor indecency, both which generally meet on such occasions.  They
were married at my brother's in Pall-Mall, just before dinner, by Mr. Keppel; the company,
my brother, his son, Mrs. Keppel, and Charlotte, Lady Elizabeth Keppel, Lady Betty Waldegrave,
and I. We dined there; the Earl and new Countess got into their postchaise at eight o'clock,
and went to Navestock alone, where they stay till Saturday night: on Sunday she is to be presented,
and to make my Lady Coventry distracted, who, t'other day, told Lady Anne Connolly how she
dreaded Lady Louisa's arrival; "But," said she, "now I have seen her, I am easy."

Maria was in a white silver gown, with a hat pulled very much over her face; what one could
see of it was handsomer than ever; a cold maiden blush gave her the sweetest delicacy in the
world.  I had liked to have demolished the solemnity of the ceremony by laughing, when Mr.
Keppel read the words, "Bless thy servant and thy handmaid;" it struck me how ridiculous it
would have been, had Miss Drax been the handmaid, as she was once to have been.

Did I ever tell you what happened at my Lord Hertford's wedding?  You remember that my father's
style was not purity itself.  As the bride was so young and so exceedingly bashful, and as
my Lord Hertford is a little of the prude himself, great means were used to keep Sir Robert
within bounds.  He yawned, and behaved decently.  When the dessert was removed, the Bishop,
who married them, said, "Sir Robert, what health shall we drink?"  It was just after Vernon's
conquest of Porto Bello. "I don't know," replied my father: "why, drink the admiral in the
straights of Bocca Cieca."

We have had a sort of debate in the House of Commons on the bill for fixing the augmentation
of the salaries of the judges: Charles Townshend says, the book of Judges was saved by the
book of Numbers.

Lord Weymouth(1033) is to be married on Tuesday, or, as he said himself, to be turned off.
George Selwyn told him he wondered that he had not been turned off before, for he still sits
up drinking all night and gaming.

Well! are you ready to be invaded? for it seems invasions from France are coming into fashion
again.  A descent on Ireland at least is expected.  There has been a great quarrel -between
Mr. Pitt and Lord Anson, on the negligence of the latter.  I suppose they will be reconciled
by agreeing to hang some admiral, who will come too late to save Ireland, after it is impossible
to save it.

Dr. Young has published a new book,(1034) on purpose. he says himself, to have an opportunity
of telling a story that he has known these forty years.  Mr. Addison sent for the young Lord
Warwick, as he was dying, to show him in what peace a Christian could die--unluckily he died
of brandy-nothing makes a Christian die in peace like being maudlin! but don't say this in
Gath, where you are.  Adieu!

P. S. I forgot to tell you two good stories of the little Prince Frederick.  He was describing
to Lady Charlotte Edwin the eunuchs of the Opera; but not easily finding proper words, he said,
"I can't tell you, but I will show you how they make them," and began to unbutton.  T'other
day as he was with the Prince of Wales, Kitty Fisher passed by, and the child named her; the
Prince, to try him, asked who that was?  "Why, a Miss."  "A Miss," said the Prince of Wales;
"why, are not all girls Misses?"  "Oh! but a particular sort of Miss--a Miss that sells oranges."
"Is there any harm in selling oranges?"  "Oh! but they are not such oranges as you buy; I believe
they are a sort that my brother Edward buys."

(1033) Afterwards created Marquis of Bath.  He married Lady Elizabeth Cavendish Bentinck, daughter
of William, third Duke of Portland.-E.

(1034) "Conjectures on Original Composition; in a letter to the author of Sir Charles Grandison."
The article on this work in the Critical Review was written by Oliver Goldsmith.  See the recent
edition of his Miscellaneous Works, vol. iv. p. 462.-E.

491 Letter 316 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, June 1, 1759.

I have not announced to you in form the invasion from France, of which all our newspapers have
been so full, nor do I tell you every time the clock strikes.  An invasion frightens one but
once.  I am grown to fear no invasions but those we make. Yet I believe there are people really
afraid of this--I mean the new militia, who have received orders to march.  The war in general
seems languishing: Prince Henry of Prussia is the only one who keeps it up with any spirit.
The Parliament goes into the country to-morrow.

One of your last friends, Lord Northampton,(1035) is going to marry Lady Anne Somerset, the
Duke of Beaufort's sister.  She is rather handsome.  He seems to have too much of the coldness
and dignity of the Comptons.

Have you had the comet in Italy?  It has made more noise here than it deserved, because Sir
Isaac Newton foretold it, and it came very near disappointing him.  Indeed, I have a notion
that it is not the right, but a little one- that they put up as they were hunting the true--in
short, I suppose, like pine-apples and gold pheasants, comets will grow so common as to be
sold at Covent-garden market.

I am glad you approve the marriage of my charming niece--she is now Lady Waldegrave in all
the forms.

I envy you who can make out whole letters to me--I find it grow every day more difficult, we
are so far and have been so long removed from little events in common that serve to fill up
a correspondence, that though my heart is willing, my hand is slow.  Europe is a dull magnificent
subject to one who cares little and thinks still les about Europe.  Even the King of Prussia,
except on post-days don't occupy a quarter of an inch in my memory.  He must kill a hundred
thousand men once a fortnight to Put me in mind of him. Heroes that do so much in a book, and
seem so active to posterity, lie fallow a vast while to their contemporaries--and how it would
humble a vast Prince who expects to occupy the whole attention of an age, to hear an idle man
in his easy chair cry "Well! why don't the King of Prussia do something?" If one means to make
a lasting bustle, one should contrive to be the hero of a village; I have known a country rake
talked of for a riot, whole years after the battle of Blenheim has grown obsolete.  Fame, like
an essence, the farther it is diffused, the sooner it vanishes.  The million in London devour
an event and demand another to-morrow.  Three or four families in a hamlet twist and turn it,
examine, discuss, mistake, repeat their mistake, remember their mistake, and teach it to their
children.  Adieu!

(1035) Charles Compton, seventh Earl of Northampton, married Lady Anne Somerset, daughter of
Charles, fourth Duke of beaufort; by whom he had an only Child, Lady Elizabeth Compton, married
to Lord George Henry Cavendish, now Earl of Burlington. Lord Northampton died in 1763.-D.

492 Letter 317 To George Montagu, Esq. June 2, 1759.

Strawberry Hill is grown a perfect Paphos; it is the land of beauties.  On Wednesday the Duchesses
of Hamilton and Richmond and Lady Ailesbury dined there; the two latter stayed all night. 
There never was so pretty a sight as to see them all three sitting in the shell; a thousand
years hence, when I begin to grow old, if that can ever be, I shall talk of that event, and
tell young people how much handsomer the women of my time were than they will be then: I shall
say, "Women alter now; I remember Lady Ailesbury looking handsomer than her daughter, the pretty
Duchess of Richmond, as they were sitting in the shell on my terrace with the Duchess of Hamilton,
one of the famous Gunnings."  Yesterday t'other more famous Gunning(1036) dined there.  She
has made a friendship with my charming niece, to disguise her jealousy of the new Countess's
beauty: there were they two, their lords, Lord Buckingham, and Charlotte.  You will think that
I did not choose men for my parties so well as women.  I don't include Lord Waldegrave in this
bad election.

Loo is mounted to its zenith; the parties last till one and two in the morning.  We played
at Lady Hertford's last week, the last night of her lying-in, till deep into Sunday morning,
after she and her lord were retired.  It Is now adjourned to Mrs. Fitzroy's, whose child the
town called "Pam--ela'.  I proposed, that instead of receiving cards for assemblies, one should
send in a morning to Dr. Hunter's, the man-midwife, to know where there is loo that evening.
I find poor Charles Montagu is dead:(1037) is it true, as the papers say, that his son comes
into Parliament? The invasion is not half so much in fashion as loo, and the King demanding
the assistance of' the militia does not add much dignity to it.  The great Pam of Parliament,
who made the motion, entered into a wonderful definition of the several sorts of fear; from
fear that comes from pusillanimity, up to fear from magnanimity.  It put me in mind of that
wise Pythian, My Lady Londonderry, who, when her sister, Lady DOnnegal was dying, pronounced,
that if it were a fever from a fever, she would live; but if it were a fever from death, she
would die.

Mr. Mason has published another drama, called Caractacus; there are some incantations poetical
enough, and odes so Greek as to have very little meaning.  But the whole is laboured, uninteresting,
and no more resembling the manners of Britons than of Japanese.  It is introduced by a piping
elegy; for Mason, in imitation of Gray, "will cry and roar all night"(1038) without the least
provocation.

Adieu! I shall be glad to hear that your Strawberry tide is fixed.

(1036) Lady Coventry.

(1037) Only son of the Hon.  James Montagu, son of Henry Earl of Manchester.-E.

(1038) An expression of Mr. Montagu's.

493 Letter 318 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 8, 1759.

This is merely a letter about your commission, and I hope it will get to you with wondrous
haste.  I have not lost a minute in trying to execute what you desire, but it is impossible
to perform all that is required.  A watch, perfect by Ellicot or Gray, with all the accompaniments,
cannot possibly be had for near seventy-five pounds.  Though the directions do not expressly
limit me to seventy-five, yet I know Italians enough to be sure that when they name seventy-five,
they would not bear a codicil of fifty-five more.  Ellicot (and Gray is rather dearer) would
have for watch and chain a hundred and thirty-four guineas; the seals will cost sixteen more.
Two hundred and sixty-eight sequins are more than I dare lay out. But I will tell you what
I have done: Deard, one of the first jewellers and toymen Here, has undertaken to make a watch
and chain, enamelled according to a pattern I have chosen of the newest kind, for a hundred
guineas; with two seals for sixteen more; and he has engaged that, if this is not approved,
he will keep it himself; but to this I must have an immediate answer. He will put his own name
to it, as a warrant to the goodness of the work; and then, except the nine of Ellicot or Gray,
your friend will have as good a watch as he can desire.  I take for granted, at farthest, that
I can have an answer by the 15th of July; and then there will be time, I trust, to convey it
to you; I suppose by sea, for unless a fortunate messenger should be going `a point nomm`e,
you may imagine that a traveller would not arrive there in any time.  My dear Sir, you know
how happy I am to do any thing you desire; and I shall pique myself on your credit in this,
but your friend has expected what, altogether, it is almost impossible to perform--what can
be done, shall be.

There is not a syllable of news--if there was, I should not confine myself solely to the commission.
Some of our captains in the East Indies have behaved very ill; if there is an invasion, which
I don't believe there will, I am glad they were not here.  Adieu!

494 Letter 319 To The Earl Of Strafford. Strawberry Hill, June 12, 1759.

My dear lord, After so kind a note as you left for me at your going Out Of town, you cannot
wonder that I was determined to thank you the moment I knew you settled in Yorkshire.  At least
I am not ungrateful, if I deserve your goodness by no other title.  I was willing to stay till
I could amuse you, but I have not a battle big enough even to send in a letter.  The King of
Prussia's campaign is still. in its papillotes; Prince Ferdinand is laid up like the rest of
the pensioners on Ireland; Guadaloupe has taken a sleeping- draught, and our heroes in America
seem to be planting suckers of laurels that will not make any future these three years. All
the war that is in fashion lies between those two ridiculous things, an invasion and the militia.
- Prince Edward is going to sea, to inquire after the invasion from France: and the old potbellied
country colonels are preparing to march and make it drunk when it comes.  I don't know, as
it is an event in Mr. Pitt's administration, whether the Jacobite corporations, who are converted
by his eloquence which they never heard, do not propose to bestow their freedom on the first
corps of French that shall land.

Adieu, my lord and my lady! I hope you are all beauty and verdure.  We are drowned with obtaining
ours.

495 Letter 320 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, June 22, 1759.

Well! they tell us in good earnest that we are to be invaded; Mr. Pitt is as positive of it
as of his own invasions.  As the French affect an air of grandeur in all they do, "Mr. Pitt
sent ten thousands, but they send fifty thousands."  You will be inquisitive after our force--I
can't tell you the particulars; I am only in town for to-day, but I hear of mighty preparations.
Of one thing I am sure; they missed the moment when eight thousand men might have carried off
England and set it down in the gardens of Versailles.  In the last war, when we could not rake
together four thousand men, and were all divided, not a flat-bottomed boat lifted up its leg
against us! There is great spirit in Motion; my Lord Orford is gone with his Norfolk militia
to Portsmouth; every body is raising regiments or themselves--my Lord Shaftsbury,(1039) . one
of the new colonels of militia, is to be a brigadier-general.  I shall not march my Twickenham
militia for some private reasons; my farmer has got an ague, my printer has run away, my footboy
is always drunk, and my gardener is a Scotchman, and I believe would give intelligence to the
enemy.  France has notified the Dutch that she intends to -surprise us; and this makes us still
more angry.  In the mean time, we have got Guadaloupe to play with.  I did not send you any
particulars, for this time the Gazette piqued itself upon telling its own story from beginning
to end; I never knew it so full of chat.  It is very comfortable, that if we lose our own island,
we shall at least have all America to settle in.  Quebec is to be conquered by the 15th of
July, and two more expeditions, I don't know whither, are to be crowned with all imaginable
success, I don't know when; so you see our affairs, upon the whole, are in a very prosperous
train.  Your friend, Colonel Clavering, is the real hero of Guadaloupe; he is come home, covered
"with more laurels than a boar's head: indeed he has done exceedingly well.  A much older friend
of yours is just dead, my Lady Murray;(1040) she caught her death by too strict attendance
on her sister, Lady Binning, who has been ill.  They were a family of love, and break their
hearts for her.  She had a thousand good qualities; but no mortal was ever so surprised as
I when I was first told that she was the nymph Arthur Gray would have ravished.  She had taken
care to guard against any more such danger by more wrinkles than ever twisted round a human
face. Adieu! If you have a mind to be fashionable, you must raise a regiment of Florentine militia.

(1039) Anthony Ashley Cooper, fourth Earl of Shaftsbury. he died in 1771.-D.

(1040) Daughter of George Bailie, Esq.  See an epistle from Arthur Gray, her footman, to her,
in the poems of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. [Lady Murray of Stanhope.  She was a woman of merit
and ability, and of excellent conduct.  She was an intimate friend of Lady Hervey, who, in
her letters, thus speaks of her;--"I have lost the first friend I had--the kindest, best, and
most valuable one I ever had, with whom I have lived at her grandfather's, Lord Marchmont."-E.]

496 Letter 321 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, June 23, 1759.

As you bid me fix a day about six weeks from the date of your last, it will suit me extremely
to see you here the 1st of August.  I don't mean to treat you with a rowing for a badge, but
it will fall in very commodely between my parties.  You tell me nothing of the old house you
were to see near Blenheim: I have some suspicion that Greatworth is coming into play again.
I made your speeches to Mr. Chute, and to Mr. M`untz, and to myself; your snuff-box is bespoke,
your pictures not done, the print of Lady Waldegrave not begun.

news there are none, unless you have a mind for a panic about the invasion.  I was in town
yesterday, and saw a thousand people at Kensington with faces as long as if it was the last
accession of this family that they were ever to See.  The French are coming with fifty thousand
men, and we shall meet them with fifty addresses.  Pray, if you know how, frighten your neighbours,
and give them courage at the same time.

My Lady Coventry and my niece Waldegrave have been mobbed in the Park.  I am sorry the people
of England take all their liberty out in insulting pretty women.

You will be diverted with what happened to Mr. Meynell lately. He was engaged to dine at a
formal old lady's, but stayed so late hunting that he had not time to dress, but -went as he
was, with forty apologies.  The matron very affected, and meaning to say something very civil,
cried, "Oh! Sir, I assure you I can see the gentleman through a pair of buckskin breeches as
well as if he was in silk or satin."

I am sure I can't tell you any thing better, so good night! Yours ever.

P. s. I hope you have as gorgeous weather as we have; it is even hot enough for Mr. Bentley.
I live upon the water.

497 Letter 322 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, July 8, 1759.

This will be the most indecisive of all letters: I don't write to tell you that the French
are not landed at Deal, as was believed yesterday.  An officer arrived post in the middle of
the night, who saw them disembark.  The King was called; my lord Ligonier buckled on his armour.
Nothing else was talked of in the streets; yet there was no panic.(1041)  Before noon, it was
known that the invasion was a few Dutch hoys.  The day before, it was triumph.  Rodney was
known to be before Havre de Grace; with two bomb-ketches he set the town on fire in different
places, and had brought up four more to act, notwithstanding a very smart fire from the forts,
which, however, will probably force him to retire without burning the flat-bottomed boats,
which are believed out of his reach.  The express came from him on Wednesday morning.  This
is Sunday noon, and I don't know that farther intelligence is arrived.  I am sorry for this
sort of war, not only for the sufferers, but I don't like the precedent, in case the French
should land.  I think they will scarce venture; for besides the force on land, we have a mighty
chain of fleet and frigates along the coast. There is great animosity to them, and few can
expect to return.

Our part of the war in Germany seems at an end: Prince Ferdinand is retiring, and has all the
advantage of that part of great generalship, a retreat.  From America we expect the greatest
things; our force there by land and sea is vast.  I hope we shall not be to buy England back
by restoring the North Indies! I will gladly give them all the hundred thousand acres that
may fall to my share on the Olio for my twenty acres here. Truly I don't like having them endangered
for the limits of Virginia!

I wait impatiently for your last orders for the watch; if the worst comes to the worst, I can
convey it to you by some French officer.

The weather is sultry; this country never looked prettier.  I hope our enemies will not have
the heart to spoil it! It would be much disappointment to me, who am going to make great additions
to my castle; a gallery, a round tower, and a cabinet, that is to have all the air of a Catholic
chapel--bar consecration.  Adieu! I will tell you more soon, or I hope no more.

(1041) "Every body," says Gray, in a letter to Dr. Wharton, of the 21st, "continues as quiet
about the invasion as if a Frenchman, as soon as he set his foot on our coast, would die, like
a toad in Ireland.  Yet the King's tents and equipage are ordered to be ready at an hour's
warning."

(1042) Now first collected.

(1043) Walter Goodall, librarian of the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh.  He was warmly devoted
to Mary Queen of Scots, and in 1754, published an Examination of the letters said to be written
by Mary to the Earl of Bothwell, in which he endeavoured to prove them to be forgeries.-E.

(1044) Robert, the third King of Scotland, from the imputation of bastardy.-E.

499 Letter 324 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, July 19, 1759.

Well, I begin to expect you; you must not forget the first of August.  If we do but look as
well as we do at present, you will own Strawberry is still in its bloom.  With English verdure,
we have had an Italian summer, and

Whatever sweets Sabaean springs disclose, Our Indian jasmin, and the Persian rose.

I am forced to talk of Strawberry, lest I should weary you with what every body wearies me,
the French and the militia.  They, I mean the latter only, not the former, passed just by us
yesterday, and though it was my own clan, I had not the curiosity to go and see them.  The
crowds in Hyde Park, when the King reviewed them, were unimaginable.  My Lord Orford, their
colonel, I hear, looked gloriously martial and genteel, and I believe it;(1045) his person
and air have a noble wildness in them; the regiments, too, are very becoming, scarlet faced
with black, buff waistcoats, and gold buttons. How knights of shires, who have never shot any
thing but woodcocks, like this warfare, I don't know; but the towns through which they pass
adore them; every where they are treated and regaled.  The Prince of Wales followed them to
Kingston, and gave fifty guineas among the private men.

I expect some anecdotes from you of the coronation at Oxford; I hear my Lord Westmoreland's
own retinue was all be-James'd with true-blue ribands; and that because Sir William Calvert,
who was a fellow of a college, and happened to be Lord Mayor, attended the Duke of Newcastle
at his inthronization, they dragged down the present Lord Mayor to Oxford, who is only a dry-salter.

I have your Butler's posthumous works.(1046)  The poetry is most uncouth and incorrect, but
with infinite wit; especially one thing on plagiaries is equal to any thirty in Hudibras. Have
you read my Lord Clarendon's? I am enchanted with it; 'tis very incorrect, but I think more
entertaining than his History. It makes me quite out of humour with other memoirs.  Adieu!
A very pleasant review of this work, by Oliver Goldsmith, will be found in the fourth volume
of Mr. Murray's enlarged edition of his Miscellaneous Works.-E.

500 Letter 325 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, July 26, 1759.

I am dying in a hot street, with my eyes full of dust, and my table full of letters to be answered--yet
I must write you a line.  I am sorry your first of Augustness is disordered; I'll tell you
why.  I go to Ragley on the twelfth.  There is to be a great party at loo for the Duchess of
Grafton, and thence they adjourn to the Warwick races.  I have been engaged so long to this,
that I cannot put it off; besides, I am under appointments at George Selwyn's, etc. afterwards.
If you cannot come before all this to let me have enough of your company, I should wish you
to postpone it to the first of September, when I shall be at leisure for ten or twelve days,
and could go with you from Strawberry to the Vine; but I could like to know certainly, for
as I never make any of my visits while Strawberry is in bloom, I am a little crowded with them
at the end of the season.

I came this morning in all this torrent of heat from Lord Waldegrave's at Navestock.  It is
a dull place, though it does not want prospect backwards.  The garden is small, consisting
of two French all`ees of old limes, that are comfortable, two groves that are not so, and a
green canal; there is besides a paddock.  The house was built by his father, and ill finished,
but an air seigneurial in the furniture; French glasses in quantities, handsome commodes, tables,
screens, etc. goodish pictures in rich frames, and a deal of noblesse `a la St. Germain--James
the Second, Charles the Second, the Duke of Berwick, her Grace of Buckingham, the Queen Dowager
in the dress she visited Madame Maintenon, her daughter the Princess Louisa, a Lady Gerard
that died at Joppa, returning from a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and above all La Goqfrey, and
not at all ugly, Though she does not show her thighs.  All this is leavened with the late King,
the present King, and Queen Caroline.  I shall take care to sprinkle a little unholy water
from our well.

I am very sorry you have been so ill; take care of yourself. there are wicked sore-throats
in vogue; poor Lady Essex and Mrs. Charles Yorke died of them in an instant.

Do let me have a line, and do fix a day; for instead of keeping me at home one by fixing it,
you will keep me there five or six days by not fixing it.  Adieu!

501 letter 326 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, August 1, 1759.

I have received your two letters about the watch, the first came with surprising celerity.
I wish, when the watch is finished, I may be able to convey it to you with equal expedition.

Nothing is talked of here, as you may imagine, but the invasion--yet I don't grow more credulous.
Their ridiculous lists of fifty thousand men don't contribute to frighten me-- nay, though
they specify the numbers of apothecaries and chaplains that are to attend.  Fifty thousand
men cannot easily steal a march over the sea.  Sir Edward Hawke will take care of them till
winter, and by that time we shall have a great force at land.  The very militia is considerable:
the spirit, or at least the fashion of it, catches every day.  We are growing such ancient
Britons, that I don't know whether I must not mount some popguns upon the battlements of my
castle, lest I should not be thought hero enough in these West-Saxon times. Lord Pulteney has
done handsomely, and what is more surprising, so has his father.  The former has offered to
raise a regiment, and to be only lieutenant-colonel, provided the command is given to a Colonel
Crawford, an old soldier, long postponed-- Lord Bath is at the expense, which will be five
thousand pounds.  All the country squires are in regimentals --a pedestal is making for little
Lord Mountford, that he may be placed at the head of the Cambridgeshire militia.  In short,
we have two sorts of armies, and I hope neither will be necessary--what the consequences of
this militia may be hereafter, I don't know.  Indifferent I think it cannot be.  A great force
upon an old plan, exploded since modern improvements, must make some confusion.  If they do
not become ridiculous, which the real officers are disposed to make them, the crown or the
disaffected will draw considerable consequences, I think, from an establishment popular by
being constitutional, and of great weight from the property it will contain.

If the French pursue their vivacity in Germany, they will send us more defenders; our eight
thousand men there seem of very little use.  Both sides seem in all parts weary of the war;
at least are grown so cautious, that a battle will be as great a curiosity in a campaign as
in the midst of peace.  For the Russians, they quite make one smile; they hover every summer
over the north of Germany, get cut to pieces by September, disappear, have a general disgraced,
and in winter out comes a memorial of the Czarina's steadiness to her engagements, and of the
mighty things she will do in spring.  The Swedes follow them like Sancho Panza, and are rejoiced
at not being bound by the laws of chivalry to be thrashed too.

We have an evil that threatens us more nearly than the French. The heat of the weather has
produced a contagious sore-throat in London.  Mr. Yorke, the solicitor-general, has lost his
wife, his daughter, and a servant.  The young Lady Essex(1047) died of it in two days.  Two
servants are dead in Newcastle-house, and the Duke has left it; any body else would be pitied,
but his terrors are sure of being a joke.(1048)  My niece, Lady Waldegrave, has done her part
for repairing this calamity, and is breeding.

Your Lord Northampton has not acted a much more gallant part by his new mistress than by his
fair one at Florence.  When it was all agreed, he refused to marry unless she had eighteen
thousand pounds.  Eight were wanting.  It looked as if he was more attached to his old flame
than to his new one; but her uncle, Norborne Berkeley,(1049) has nobly made up the deficiency.

I told Mr. Fox of the wine that is coming, and he told me what I had totally forgot, that he
has left off Florence, and chooses to have no more.  He will take this parcel, but you need
not trouble yourself again.  Adieu! my dear Sir, don't let Marshal Botta terrify you: when
the French dare not stir out of any port they have, it will be extraordinary if they venture
to come into the heart of us.

(1047) Frances, eldest daughter of Sir Charles Hanbury Williams.  See ant`e, p. 216, letter 108.-E.

(1048) "I have heard the Duke of Newcastle is much broke ever since his sister Castlecorner
died; not that he cared for her, or saw her above once a year: but she was the last of the
brood that was left; and he now goes regularly to church, which he never did before." Gray,
Works, vol. iii. p. 218.-E.

(1049) Brother of the Duchess of Beaufort, mother of Lady Anne Somerset, whom Lord Northampton
did marry. (Norborne Berkeley afterwards established his claim to the ancient barony of Botetourt.-D.)

502 Letter 327 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Aug. 8, 1759.

If any body admires expedition, they should address themselves to you and me, who order watches,
negotiate about them by couriers, and have them finished, with as little trouble as if we had
nothing to do, but, like the men of business in the Arabian tales, rub a dark lantern, a genie
appears, one bespeaks a bauble worth two or three Indies, and finds it upon one's table the
next morning at breakfast.  The watch was actually finished, and delivered to your brother
yesterday.  I trust to our good luck for finding quick conveyance.  I did send to the White@horse
cellar here in Piccadilly, whence all the stage-coaches set out, but there was never a genie
booted and spurred, and going to Florence on a sunbeam.  If you are not charmed with the watch,
never deal with us devils any more. If any thing a quarter so pretty was found in Herculaneum,
One should admire Roman enamellers more than their Scipios and Caesars.  The device of the
second seal I stole; it is old, but uncommon; a Cupid standing on two joined hands over the
sea; si la foy manque, l'amour perira--I hope for the honour of the device. it will arrive
before half the honeymoon is over!--But, alack! I forget the material point; Mr. Deard, who
has forty times more virtue than if he had been taken from the plough to be colonel of the
militia, instead of one hundred and sixteen pounds to which I pinned him down, to avoid guineas,
will positively take but one hundred and ten pounds.  I did all I could to corrupt him with
six more, but he is immaculate--and when our posterity is abominably bad, as all posterity
always is till it grows one's ancestors, I hope Mr. Deard's integrity will be quoted to them
as an instance of the virtues that adorned the simple and barbarous age of George the Second.
Oh! I can tell you the age of George the Second is likely to be celebrated for more primitivity
than the disinterestedness of Mr. Deard-here is such a victory come over that--it can't get
over.  Mr. Yorke has sent word that a Captain Ligonier is coming from Prince Ferdinand to tell
us that his Serene Highness has beaten Monsieur Contades to such a degree, that every house
in London is illuminated, every street has two bonfires, every bonfire has two hundred squibs,
and the poor charming moon yonder, that never looked so well in her life, is not at all minded,
but seems only staring out of a garret window at the frantic doings all over the town.(1050)
We don't know a single particular, but we conclude that Prince Ferdinand received all his directions
from my Lord Granby, who is the mob's hero.  We are a little afraid, if we could fear any thing
to-night, that the defeat of the Russians by General Weidel was a mistake for this victory
of Prince Ferdinand.  Pray Heaven! neither of these glories be turned sour, by staying so long
at sea!  You said in your last, what slaughter must be committed by the end of August!  Alas!
my dear Sir, so there is by the beginning of it; and we, wretched creatures, are forced to
be glad of it, because the greatest part falls on our enemies.

Fifteen hundred men have stolen from Dunkirk, and are said to be sailed northward--some think,
to Embden--too poor a pittance surely where they thought themselves so superior, unless they
meaned to hinder our receiving our own troops from thence--as paltry, too, if this is their
invasion--but if to Scotland, not quite a joke.  However, Prince Ferdinand seems to have found
employment for the rest of their troops, and Monsieur de Botta will not talk to you in so high
a style.

D'Aubreu, the pert Spanish minister, said the other day at court to poor Alt, the Hessian,
"Monsieur, je vous f`elicite; Munster est pris."  Mr. Pitt, who overheard this cruel apostrophe,
called out, "Et moi, Monsieur Alt, Je vous f`elicite; les Russes sont battus."

I am here in town almost every day; Mrs. Leneve, who has long lived with my father, and with
me, is at the point of death; she is seventy-three, and has passed twenty-four of them in continual
ill health; so I can but wish her released.  Her long friendship with our family makes this
attention a duty; otherwise I should certainly not be in town this most gorgeous of all summers!
I should like to know in how many letters this wonderful summer has been talked of.

It is above two years, I think, since you sent home any of my letters--will you by any convenient
opportunity?

Adieu! There is great impatience, as you may believe, to learn the welfare of our young lords
and heroes--there are the Duke of Richmond, Lord Granby, Lord George Sackville, Lord Downe,
Fitzroy, General Waldegrave, and others of rank.

(1050) "I have the joy to tell you," writes Mr. Pitt, on the 6th, to Lady Hester, "that our
happy victory ne fait que croitre et embellir: by letters come this day, the hereditary Prince,
with his troops, had passed the Weser, and attacked, with part of them, a body of six thousand
French, defeated it, took many prisoners, some trophies and cannon: M. de Contades's baggage,
coaches, mules, letters, and correspondences have fallen into our hands.  Words in letters
say, 'qu'on se lasse de prendre des prisoniers.'"  Chatham Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 8.-E.

504 Letter 328 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Aug. 9, 1759.

Unless your Colonel Johnson is a man of no note, he is well. for we have not lost one officer
of any note--now will you conclude that we are beaten, and will be crying and roaring all night
for Hanover.  Lord! where do you live? If you had any ears, as I have none left with the noise,
you would have heard the racket that was made from morning till night yesterday on the news
of the victory(1051) gained by Prince Ferdinand over the French.  He has not left so many alive
as there are at any periwig-maker's in London.  This is all we know, the particulars are to
come at their leisure, and with all the gravity due to their importance.  If the King's heart
were not entirely English, I believe he would be complimented with the title of Germanicus
from the name of the country where this great event happened; for we don't at all know the
precise spot, nor has the battle yet been christened--all that is certain is, that the poor
Duke(1052) is neither father nor godfather.

I was sent for to town yesterday, as Mrs. Leneve was at the point of death: but she has had
a surprising change, and may linger on still.  I found the town distracted, and at night it
was beautiful beyond description.  As the weather was so hot, every window was open, and all
the rails illuminated; every street had one or two bonfires, the moon was in all its glory,
the very middle of the streets crowded with officers and people of fashion talking of the news.
Every squib in town got drunk, and rioted about the streets till morning.  Two of our regiments
are said to have suffered much, of which Napier's most.  Adieu! If you should be over-English
with this, there is a party of one thousand five hundred men stolen out of Dunkirk, that some
weeks hence may bring you to your senses again, provided they are properly planted and watered
in Scotland.

(1051) At the battle of Minden.

(1052) Duke of Cumberland.

505 Letter 329 To The Earl Of Strafford. Strawberry Hill, Thursday, 3 o'clock, August 9, 1759.

My dear lord, Lord Granby has entirely defeated the French!--The foreign gazettes, I suppose,
will give this victory to Prince Ferdinand: but the mob of London, whom I have this minute
left, and who must know best, assure me that it is all their own Marquis's doing.  Mr. Yorke(1053)
was the first to send this news, "to be laid with himself and all humility at his Majesty's
feet",(1054) about eleven o'clock yesterday morning. At five this morning came Captain Ligonier,
who was despatched in such a hurry that he had not time to pack up any particulars in his portmanteau:
those we are expecting with our own army, who we conclude are now at Paris, and will be tomorrow
night at Amiens.  All we know is, that not one Englishman is killed, nor one Frenchman left
alive.  If you should chance to meet a bloody wagon-load of heads, you will be sure that it
is the part of the spoils that came to Downe's share, and going to be hung up in the great
hall at Cowick.(1055)

We have a vast deal of other good news; but as not one word of it is true, I thought you would
be content with this victory. His Majesty is in high spirits, and is to make -,a triumphal
entry into Hanover on Tuesday fortnight.  I envy you the illuminations and rejoicings that
will be made at Worksop on this occasion.

Four days ago we had a great victory over the Russians; but in the hurry of this triumph it
has somehow or other been mislaid, and nobody can tell where to find it:--however, it is not
given over for lost.

Adieu, my dear lord! As I have been so circumstantial in the account of this battle, I will
not tire you with any thing else.  My compliments to the lady of the menagerie.  I see your
new offices rise(1056) every day in a very respectable manner.

(1053) Afterwards Lord Dover,, then Minister at the Hague.

(1054) The words of his despatch.

(1055) Lord Downe's seat in Yorkshire.

(1056) At Lord Strafford's house at Twickenham.

(1057) Now first printed.

(1058) A celebrated fruit-shop in St. James's Street.

(1059) Mr. Pitt in a letter of the 15th to Lord Bute, says, "The king has given leave to Lord
George Sackville to return to England; his lordship having in a letter to Lord Holderness,
requested to be recalled from his command.  This mode of returning, your lordship will perceive,
is a very considerable softening of his misfortune.  The current in all parts bears hard upon
him.  As I have already, so I shall continue to give him, as a most unhappy man, all the offices
of humanity which our first, sacred duty, the public good, will allow." Chatham Correspondence,
vol. i. p. 417.-E.

507 Letter 331 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, August 29, 1759.

Truly I don't know whether one is to be rejoicing or lamenting! Every good heart is a bonfire
for Prince Ferdinand's success, and a funeral pile for the King of Prussia's defeat.(1060)
Mr. Yorke, who every week," "lays himself most humbly at the King's feet" with some false piece
of news, has almost ruined us in illuminations for defeated victories--we were singing Te Deums
for the King of Prussia, when he was actually reduced to be King of Custrin, for he has not
only lost his neighbour's capital, but his own too.  Mr. Bentley has long said, that we should
see him at Somerset House next winter; and really I begin to be afraid that he will not live
to write the history of the war himself-I shall be content, if he is forced to do it even by
subscription.  Oh, that Daun! how he sits silent on his drum, and shoves the King a little
and a little farther out of the world! The most provoking part of all is, (for I am mighty
soon comforted when a hero tumbles from the top of Fame's steeple and breaks his neck,) that
that tawdry toad, Bruhl(1061) Will make a triumphant entry into the ruins of Dresden, and rebuild
all his palaces with what little money remains in the country!

The mob, to comfort themselves under these mishaps, and for the disappointment of a complete
victory, that might have been more compleater, are new grinding their teeth and nails, to tear
Lord George(1062) to pieces the instant he lands.  If he finds more powerful friends than poor
Admiral Byng, assure yourself he has ten thousand times the number of personal enemies; I was
going to say real, but Mr. Byng's were real enough, with no reason to be personal.  I don't
talk of the event itself', for I suppose all Europe knows just as much as we know here.  I
suspend my opinion till Lord George speaks himself--but I pity his father, who has been so
unhappy in his sons, who loved this so much, and who had such fair prospects for him.  Lord
George's fall is prodigious; nobody stood higher, nobody has more ambition or more sense.

You, I suppose, are taking leave of your new King of Spain,(1064)--what a bloody war is saved
by this death, by its happening in the midst of one that cannot be more bloody!  I detest a
correspondence now; it lives like a vampire upon dead bodies! Adieu! I have nothing to write about.

