"Another notable circumstance made the power of the Inquisitors-General still more unusual;
this was that, without consulting the king or the Supreme Pontiff, they dictated laws, changed
them, abolished them, or substituted them by others, so that there was within the nation a
judge, the Inquisitor-General, whose powers transcended those of the sovereign.

"Here now how the Tribunal proceeded with the offenders. When an accusation was made, the accused
were taken to a secret prison without being permitted to communicate with parents, children,
relations, or friends, till they were condemned or absolved. Their families were denied the
consolation of weeping with them over their misfortunes or of assisting them in their defense.
The accused was not only deprived of the assistance of his relations and friends, but in no
case was he informed of the name of his accuser nor of the witnesses who declared against him;
and in order that he might not discover who they were, they used to truncate the declarations
and make them appear as coming from a third party.

"Some one will be bold enough to say that the rectitude and the religious character of the
inquisitors prevented the confusion of the innocent with the criminal; but the experiences
of many years and the history of the Inquisition give the lie to such assurances. They show
us sage and saintly men in the Tribunal's dungeons. Sixtus IV himself, who, at the request
of the Catholic kings, had sanctioned the creation of the Tribunal, complained strongly of
the innumerable protests that reached him from persecuted people who had been falsely accused
of heresy. Neither the virtue nor the position of distinguished men could protect them. The
venerable Archbishop of Grenada, formerly the confessor of Queen Isabel, suffered most rigorous
persecutions from the inquisitors of Cordóva, and the same befell the Archbishop of Toledo,
Friar Louis de Leon, the venerable Avila, Father Siguenza, and many other eminent men.

"In view of these facts, it is no paradox to say that the ignorance, the decadence of science,
of the arts, commerce and agriculture, the depopulation and poverty of Spain, are mainly due
to the Inquisition.

"How the Inquisition could be established among such a noble and generous people as the Spanish,
will be a difficult problem for posterity to solve. It will be more difficult still to explain
how such a Tribunal could exist for more than three hundred years. Circumstances favored its
establishment. It was introduced under the pretext of restraining the Moors and the Jews, who
were obnoxious to the Spanish people, and who found protection in their financial relations
with the most illustrious families of the kingdom. With such plausible motives the politicians
of the time covered a measure which was contrary to the laws of the monarchy. Religion demanded
it as a protection, and the people permitted it, though not without strong protest. As soon
as the causes that called the Inquisition into existence had ceased, the people's attorneys
in Cortes demanded the establishment of the legal mode of procedure. The Cortes of Valladolid
of 1518 and 1523 asked from the king that in matters of religion the ordinary judges might
be declared competent, and that in the proceedings the canons and common codes might be followed;
the Cortes of Saragossa asked the same in 1519, and the kings would have acceded to the will
of the people, expressed through their representatives, especially in view of the indirect
encouragement to do so which they received from the Holy See, but for the influence of those
with whom they were surrounded who had an interest in the maintenance of the odious institution."

The manifesto terminates with an assurance to the Spanish people that, under the new law, heresy
would not go unpunished; that, under the new system of judicial proceedings, the innocent would
no longer be confounded with the criminal. " ... There will be no more voluntary errors, no
more suborned witnesses, offenders will henceforth be judged by upright magistrates in accordance
with the sacred canons and the civil code ... Then, genius and talent will display all their
energies without fear of being checked in their career by intrigue and calumny; ... science,
the arts, agriculture, and commerce will flourish under the guidance of the distinguished men
who abound in Spain ... The king, the bishops, all the venerable ecclesiastics will instruct
the faithful in the Roman Catholic Apostolic religion without fear of seeing its beauty tarnished
by ignorance and superstition, and, who knows, this decree may contribute to the realization,
some day, of religious fraternity among all nations!"

From this beautiful dream the Cortes were rudely awakened the very next year when King Ferdinand
VII, replaced on his throne by the powers who formed the holy alliance, entered Madrid surrounded
by a host of retrograde, revengeful priests. Then the Regency, the Cortes, the Constitution
were ignored. The deputies were the first to suffer exile, imprisonment, and death in return
for their loyalty and liberalism; the public press was silenced; the convents reopened, municipalities
and provincial deputations abolished, the Jesuits restored, the Inquisition reestablished,
and priestcraft once more spread its influence over the mental and social life of a naturally
generous, brave, and intelligent people.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 80: Neumann, p. 205.]

CHAPTER XXXIX

GROWTH OF CITIES

The proceedings in the formation of a Spanish settlement in the sixteenth century were the
same everywhere. For the choice of a site the presence of gold was a condition sine quâ non,
without gold, no matter how beautiful or fertile the region, no settlement was made.

When a favorable locality was found the first thing done was to construct a fort, because the
natives, friendly disposed at first, were not long in becoming the deadly enemies of the handful
of strangers who constituted themselves their masters. The next requisite was a church or chapel
in which to invoke the divine blessing on the enterprise, or maybe to appease the divine wrath
at the iniquities committed. Last, but certainly not least in importance, came the smelting-house,
where the King of Spain's share of the gold was separated.

Around these the settlers grouped their houses or huts as they pleased.

The first settlement on this island was made in 1508, on the north coast, at the distance of
more than a league from the present port of San Juan, the space between being swampy. Ponce
called it Capárra. When the promising result of Ponce's first visit to the island was communicated
to King Ferdinand by Ovando, the Governor of la Española, his Highness replied in a letter
dated Valladolid, September 15, 1509: "I note the good services rendered by Ponce and that
he has not gone to settle the island for want of means. Now that they are being sent from here
in abundance, let him go at once with as many men as he can." To Ponce himself the king wrote:
"I have seen your letter of August 16th. Be very diligent in the search for gold-mines. Take
out as much as possible, smelt it in la Española and remit it instantly. Settle the island
as best you can. Write often and let me know what is needed and what passes."

Armed with these instructions, and with his appointment as governor ad interim, Ponce returned
to San Juan in February, 1510, with his wife and two daughters, settled in Capárra, where,
before his departure in 1509, he had built a house of stamped earth (tapia), and where some
of the companions of his first expedition had resided ever since. Ponce's house, afterward
built of stone, served as a fort. A church or chapel existed already, and we know that there
was a smelting-house, because we read that the first gold-smelting took place in Capárra in
October, 1510, and that the king's one-fifth came to 2,645 pesos.

With the reinstatement of Ceron and Diaz, complaints about the distance of the settlement from
the port, and its unhealthy location, soon reached the king's ears, accompanied by requests
for permission to transfer it to an islet near the shore. No action was taken. In November,
1511, the monarch wrote to Ceron: "Ponce says that he founded the town of Capárra in the most
favorable locality of the island. I fear that you want to change it. You shall not do so without
our special approval. If there is just reason for moving you must first inform me."

Capárra remained for the time the only settlement, and was honored with the name of "City of
Puerto Rico." A municipal council was installed, and the king granted the island a coat of
arms which differed slightly from that used by the authorities till lately.

The next settlement was made on the south shore, at a place named Guánica, "where there is
a bay," says Oviedo, "which is one of the best in the world, but the mosquitoes were so numerous
that they alone were sufficient to depopulate it." [81] The Spaniards then moved to Aguáda,
on the northwestern shore, and founded a settlement to which they gave the name of their leader
Soto Mayor.

This was a young man of aristocratic birth, ex-secretary of King Philip, surnamed "the Handsome."
He had come to the Indies with a license authorizing him to traffic in captive Indians, and
Ponce, wishing, no doubt, to enlist the young hidalgo's family influence at the court in his
favor, made him high constable (alguacil mayor) of the southern division (June, 1510).

The new settlement's existence was short. It was destroyed by the Indians in the insurrection
of February of the following year, when Christopher Soto Mayor and 80 more of his countrymen,
who had imprudently settled in isolated localities in the interior, fell victims of the rage
of the natives.

Diego Columbus proposed the reconstruction of the destroyed settlement, with the appellation
of San German. The king approved, and near the end of the year 1512, Miguel del Torro, one
of Ponce's companions, was delegated to choose a site. He fixed upon the bay of Guayanilla,
eastward of Guánica, and San German became the port of call for the Spanish ships bound to
Pária. Its proximity to the "pearl coast," as the north shore of Venezuela was named, made
it the point of departure for all who wished to reach that coast or escape from the shores
of poverty-stricken Puerto Rico--namely, the dreamers of the riches of Peru, those who, like
Sedeño, aspired to new conquests on the mainland, or crown officers who had good reasons for
wishing to avoid giving an account of their administration of the royal revenues. The comparative
prosperity which it enjoyed made San German the object of repeated attacks by the French privateers.
It was burned and plundered several times during the forty-three years of its existence, till
one day in September, 1554, three French ships of the line entered the port and landed a detachment
of troops who plundered and destroyed everything to a distance of a league and a half into
the interior. From that day San German, founded by Miguel del Torro, ceased to exist.

The town with the same name, existing at present on the southwest coast, was founded in 1570
by Governor Francisco Solis with the remains of the ill-fated settlement on the bay of Guayanilla.
The Dominican friars had a large estate in this neighborhood, and the new settlement enhanced
its value. Both the governor and the bishop were natives of Salamanca, and named the place
New Salamanca, but the name of New San German has prevailed. In 1626 the new town had 50 citizens
(vecinos).

San Juan.--Licentiate Velasquez, one of the king's officers at Capárra, wrote to his Highness
in April, 1515: " ... The people of this town wish to move to an islet in the port. I went
to see it with the town council and it looks well"; and some time later: " ... We will send
a description of the islet to which it is convenient to remove the town of Puerto Rico."

Ponce opposed the change. His reasons were that the locality of Capárra was dry and level,
with abundance of wood, water, and pasture, and that most of the inhabitants, occupied as they
were with gold-washing, had to provide themselves with provisions from the neighboring granges.
He recognized that the islet was healthier, but maintained that the change would benefit only
the traders.

The dispute continued for some time. Medical certificates were presented declaring Capárra
unhealthy. The leading inhabitants declared their opinion in favor of the transfer. A petition
was signed and addressed to the Jerome friars, who governed in la Española, and they ordered
the transfer in June, 1519. Ponce was permitted to remain in his stone house in the abandoned
town as long as he liked. In November, 1520, Castro wrote to the emperor expressing his satisfaction
with the change, and asked that a fort and a stone smelting-house might be constructed, because
the one in use was of straw and had been burned on several occasions. Finally, in 1521, the
translation of the capital of Puerto Rico to its present site was officially recognized and
approved.

There were now two settlements in the island. There were 35 citizens in each in 1515, but the
gold produced attracted others, and in 1529 the Bishop of la Española reported that there were
120 houses in San Juan, "some of stone, the majority of straw. The church was roofed while
I was there." He says, "a Dominican monastery was in course of construction, nearly finished,
with more than 125 friars in it."

During the next five years the gold produce rapidly diminished; the Indians, who extracted
it, escaped or died. Tempests and epidemics devastated the land. The Caribs and the French
freebooters destroyed what the former spared. All those who could, emigrated to Mexico or Peru,
and such was the depopulated condition of the capital, that Governor Lando wrote in 1534: "If
a ship with 50 men were to come during the night, they could land and kill all who live here."

With the inhabitants engaged in the cultivation of sugar-cane, some improvement in their condition
took place. Still, there were only 130 citizens in San Juan in 1556, and only 30 in New San
German. In 1595, when Drake appeared before San Juan with a fleet of 26 ships, the governor
could only muster a few peons and 50 horsemen, and but for the accidental presence of the Spanish
frigates, Puerto Rico would probably be an English possession to-day. It was taken by the Duke
of Cumberland four years later, but abandoned again on account of the epidemic that broke out
among the English troops. When the Hollanders laid siege to the capital in 1625 there were
only 330 men between citizens and jíbaros that could be collected for the defense. In 1646
there were 500 citizens and 400 houses in San Juan, and 200 citizens in New San German. Arecibo
and Coámo had recently been founded.

Scarcely any progress in the settlement of the country was made during the remaining years
of the seventeenth century. Toward the middle of the eighteenth century great steps in this
direction had been made. From Governor Bravo de Rivera's list of men fit for militia service,
we discover that in 1759 there were 18 new settlements or towns in the island with a total
of 4,559 men able to carry arms; exclusive of San Juan and San German, they were:

     Ponce      with    356   men.
     Aguáda     with    564    "
     Manatí       "     357    "
     Añasco       "     460    "
     Yauco        "     164    "
     Coámo        "     342    "
     La Tuna      "     104    "
     Arecibo      "     647    "
     Utuado       "     126    "
     Loiza        "     179    "
     Toa-Alta     "     188    "
     Toa-Baja     "     294    "
     Piedras      "     104    "
     Bayamón      "     256    "
     Cáguas       "     100    "
     Guayama      "     211    "
     Rio Piedras with    46    "
     Cangrejos   with   120    "

The oldest of these settlements is

La Aguáda.--The name signifies "place at which water is taken," and Aguadilla, which is to
the north of the former and the head of the province, is merely the diminutive of Aguáda. The
first possesses abundant springs of excellent water, one of them distant only five minutes
from the landing-place. In Aguadilla a famous spring rises in the middle of the town and runs
through it in a permanent stream.

In 1511 the king directed his officers in Seville to make all ships, leaving that port for
the Indies, call at the island of San Juan in order to make the Caribs believe that the Spanish
population was much larger than it really was, and thus prevent or diminish their attacks.
The excellence of the water which the ships found at Aguáda made it convenient for them to
call, and the Spanish ships continued to do so long after the need of frightening away the
Caribs had passed.

The first regular settlement was founded in 1585 by the Franciscan monks, who named it San
Francisco de Asis. The Caribs surprised the place about the year 1590, destroyed the convent,
and martyrized five of the monks, which caused the temporary abandonment of the settlement.
It was soon repeopled, notwithstanding the repeated attacks of Caribs and French and English
privateers. Drake stopped there to provide his fleet with water in 1595. Cumberland did the
same four years later. The Columbian insurgents attempted a landing in 1819 and another in
1825, but were beaten off. Their valiant conduct on these occasions, and their loyalty in contributing
a large sum of money toward the expenses of the war in Africa, earned for their town, from
the Home Government, the title of "unconquerable" (villa invicta) in 1860.

Aguáda, or rather the mouth of the river Culebrinas, which flows into the sea near it, is the
place where Columbus landed in 1493. The fourth centenary of the event was commemorated in
1893 by the erection, on a granite pedestal, of a marble column, 11 meters high, crowned with
a Latin cross. On the pedestal is the inscription:

          1493
     19th of November
          1893

Loiza.--Along the borders of the river which bears this name there settled, about the year
1514, Pedro Mexia, Sancho Arángo, Francisco Quinaós, Pedro Lopez, and some other Spaniards,
with their respective Indian laborers. In one of the raids of the Indians from Vieyques or
Aye-Aye, which were so frequent at the time, a cacique named Cacimár met his death at the hands
of Arángo. The fallen chief's brother Yaureibó, in revenge, prepared a large expedition, and
penetrating at night with several pirogues full of men by way of the river to within a short
distance of the settlement, fell upon it and utterly destroyed it, killing many and carrying
off others. Among the killed were Mexia and his Indian concubine named Louisa or Heloise. Tradition
says that this woman, having been advised by some Indian friend of the intended attack, tried
to persuade her paramour to flee. When he refused, she scorned his recommendation to save herself
and remained with him to share his fate.

In the relation of this episode by the chroniclers, figures also the name of the dog Becerrillo
(small calf), a mastiff belonging to Arángo, who had brought the animal from the Española,
where Columbus had introduced the breed on his second voyage. In the fight with the Indians
Arángo was overpowered and was being carried off alive, when his dog, at the call of his master,
came bounding to the rescue and made the Indians release him. They sprang into the river for
safety, and the gallant brute following them was shot with a poisoned arrow.[82]

Arecibo is situated on the river of that name. It was founded by Felipe de Beaumont in 1616,
with the appellation San Felipe de Arecibo.

Fajardo.--Governor Bravo de Rivero, with a view to found a settlement on the east coast, detached
a number of soldiers from their regiment and gave to them and some other people a caballeria[83]
of land each, in the district watered by the river Fajardo. Alexander O'Reilly, the king's
commissioner, who visited the settlement in 1765, found 474 people, and wrote: " ...They have
cleared little ground and cultivated so little that they are still in the very commencements.
The only industry practised by the inhabitants is illicit trade with the Danish islands of
Saint Thomas and Saint Cross. The people of Fajardo are the commission agents for the people
there. What else could be expected from indolent soldiers and vagabonds without any means of
clearing forests or building houses? If no other measures are adopted this settlement will
remain many years in the same unhappy condition and be useful only to foreigners." In 1780
there were 243 heads of families in the district; the town proper had 9 houses and a church.

With regard to the remaining settlements mentioned in Governor Bravo de Rivero's list, there
are no reliable data.

From 1759, the year in which a general distribution of Government lands was practised and titles
were granted, to the year 1774, in which Governor Miguel Muesas reformed or redistributed some
of the urban districts, many, if not most of the settlements referred to were formed or received
the names they bear at present.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 81: The first landing of the American troops was effected here on July 25, 1898.]

[Footnote 82: These two episodes have given rise to several fantastic versions by native writers.]

[Footnote 83: Ten by twenty "cuerdas." The cuerda is one-tenth less than an English acre.]

CHAPTER XL

AURIFEROUS STREAMS AND GOLD PRODUCED FROM

1509 TO 1536

If a systematic exploration were practised to-day, by competent mineralogists, of the entire
chain of mountains which intersects the island from east to west, it is probable that lodes
of gold-bearing quartz or conglomerate, worth working, would be discovered. Even the alluvium
deposits along the banks of the rivers and their tributaries, as well as the river beds, might,
in many instances, be found to "pay."

The early settlers compelled the Indians to work for them. These poor creatures, armed with
the simplest tools, dug the earth from the river banks. Their wives and daughters, standing
up to their knees in the river, washed it in wooden troughs. When the output diminished another
site was chosen, often before the first one was half worked out. The Indians' practical knowledge
of the places where gold was likely to be found was the Spanish gold-seeker's only guide, the
Indians' labor the only labor employed in the collection of it.

As for the mountains, they have never been properly explored. The Indians who occupied them
remained in a state of insurrection for years, and when the mountain districts could be safely
visited at last, the auri sacra fames had subsided. The governors did not interest themselves
in the mineral resources of the island, and the people found it too difficult to provide for
their daily wants to go prospecting. So the surface gold in the alluvium deposits was all that
was collected by the Spaniards, and what there still may be on the bed-rocks of the rivers
or in the lodes in the mountains from which it has been washed, awaits the advent of modern
gold-seekers.

The first samples of gold from Puerto Rico were taken to the Española by Ponce, who had obtained
them from the river Manatuabón, to which the friendly cacique Guaybána conducted him on his
first visit (1508). This river disembogues into the sea on the south coast near Cape Malapascua;
but it appears that the doughty captain also visited the north coast and found gold enough
in the rivers Cóa and Sibúco to justify him in making his headquarters at Capárra, which is
in the neighborhood. That gold was found there in considerable quantities is shown by the fact
that in August of the same year of Ponce's return to the island (he returned in February, 1509),
8,975 pesos corresponded to the king's fifth of the first washings. The first smelting was
practised October 26, 1510. The next occurred May 22, 1511, producing respectively 2,645 and
3,043 gold pesos as the king's share. Thus, in the three first years the crown revenues from
this source amounted to 14,663 gold pesos, and the total output to 73,315 gold pesos, which,
at three dollars of our money per peso, approximately represented a total of $219,945 obtained
from the rivers in the neighborhood of Capárra alone.

In 1515 a fresh discovery of gold-bearing earth in this locality was reported to the king by
Sancho Velasquez, the treasurer, who wrote on April 27th: " ... At 4 leagues' distance from
here rich gold deposits have been found in certain rivers and streams. From Reyes (December
4th) to March 15th, with very few Indians, 25,000 pesos have been taken out. It is expected
that the output this season will be 100,000 pesos."

The streams in the neighborhood of San German, on the south coast, the only other settlement
in the island at the time, seem to have been equally rich. The year after its foundation by
Miguel del Toro the settlers were able to smelt and deliver 6,147 pesos to the royal treasurer.
The next year the king's share amounted to 7,508 pesos, and Treasurer Haro reported that the
same operation for the years 1517 and 1518 had produced $186,000 in all--that is, 3,740 for
the treasury.

A good idea of the island's mineral and other resources at this period may be formed from Treasurer
Haro's extensive report to the authorities in Madrid, dated January 21, 1518.

" ... Your Highness's revenues," he says, "are: one-fifth of the gold extracted and of the
pearls brought by those who go (to the coast of Venezuela) to purchase them, the salt produce
and the duties on imports and exports. Every one of the three smeltings that are practised
here every two years produces about 250,000 pesos, in San German about 186,000 pesos. But the
amounts fluctuate.

"The product of pearls is uncertain. Since the advent of the Jerome fathers the business has
been suspended until the arrival of your Highness. Two caravels have gone now, but few will
go, because the fathers say that the traffic in Indians is to cease and the greatest profit
is in that ... On your Highness's estates there are 400 Indians who wash gold, work in the
fields, build houses, etc.; ... they produce from 1,500 to 2,000 pesos profit every gang (demora)....
I send in this ship, with Juan Viscaino, 8,000 pesos and 40 marks of pearls. There remain in
my possession 17,000 pesos and 70 marks of pearls, which shall be sent by the next ship in
obedience to your Highness's orders, not to send more than 10,000 pesos at a time. The pearls
that go now are worth that amount. Until the present we sent only 5,000 pesos' worth of pearls
at one time."

The yearly output of gold fluctuated, but it continued steadily, as Velasquez wrote to the
emperor in 1521, when he made a remittance of 5,000 pesos. Six or seven years later, the placers,
for such they were, were becoming exhausted. Castellanos, the treasurer, wrote in 1518 that
only 429 pesos had been received as the king's share of the last two years' smelting. Some
new deposit was discovered in the river Daguáo, but it does not seem to have been of much importance.
From the year 1530 the reports of the crown officers are full of complaints of the growing
scarcity of gold; finally, in 1536, the last remittance was made; not, it may be safely assumed,
because there was no more gold in the island, but because those who had labored and suffered
in its production, had succumbed to the unaccustomed hardships imposed on them and to the cruel
treatment received from their sordid masters.

Besides the river mentioned, the majority of those which have their sources in the mountains
of Luquillo are more or less auriferous. These are: the Rio Prieto, the Fajardo, the Espíritu
Santo, the Rio Grande, and, especially, the Mameyes. The river Loiza also contains gold, but,
judging from the traces of diggings still here and there visible along the beds of the Mavilla,
the Sibúco, the Congo, the Rio Negro, and Carozal, in the north, it would seem that these rivers
and their affluents produced the coveted metal in largest quantities. The Duey, the Yauco,
and the Oromico, or Hormigueros, on the south coast are supposed to be auriferous also, but
do not seem to have been worked.

The metal was and is still found in seed-shaped grains, sometimes of the weight of 2 or 3 pesos.
Tradition speaks of a nugget found in the Fajardo river weighing 4 ounces, and of another found
in an affluent of the Congo of 1 pound in weight.

Silver.--In 1538 the crown officers in San Juan wrote to the Home Government: " ... The gold
is diminishing. Several veins of lead ore have been discovered, from which some silver has
been extracted. The search would continue if the concession to work these veins were given
for ten years, with 1.20 or 1.15 royalty." On March 29th of the following year the same officers
reported: " ... Respecting the silver ores discovered, we have smolten some, but no one here
knows how to do it. Veins of this ore have been discovered in many parts of the island, but
nobody works them. We are waiting for some one to come who knows how to smelt them."

The following extract from the memoirs and documents left by Juan Bautista Muñoz, gives the
value in "gold pesos"[84] of the bullion and pearls, corresponding to the king's one-fifth
share of the total produce remitted to Spain from this island from the year 1509 to 1536:

     In 1509, gold pesos   8,975
        1510,     "          2,645
        1511,     "         10,000
        1512,     "          3,043
        1513,     "         27,291
        1514,     "         18,000
        1515,     "         17,000
        1516,     "         11,490
        1517-18,  "         38,497
        1519,     "         10,000
        1520,     "         35,733
     In 1521,     "         10,000
        1522,     "          7,979
        1523-29,  "         40,000
        1530,     "         12,440
        1531,     "          6,500
        1532,     "          9,000
        1533,     "          4,000
        1534,     "          8,500
        1535,     "          1,848
        1536,     "         10,000

        Total, 15 share   277,941

The entire output for this period was 1,389,705 gold pesos, or $4,169,115 Spanish coin of to-day,
as the total produce in gold and pearls of the island of San Juan de Puerto Rico during the
first twenty-seven years of its occupation by the Spaniards. With the wind rushing at the rate
of 65 or more miles an hour, amid the roar of waves lashed into furious rolling mountains of
water, the incessant flash of lightning, the dreadful roll of thunder, the fierce beating of
rain, one sees giant trees torn up by the roots and man's proud constructions of stone and
iron broken and scattered like children's toys.

The tropical latitudes to the east and north of the West Indian Archipelago are the birthplace
of these phenomena. According to Mr. Redfield[85] they cover simultaneously an extent of surface
from 100 to 500 miles in diameter, acting with diminished violence toward the circumference
and with increased energy toward the center of this space.

In the Weather Bureau's bulletin cited, there is a description of the most remarkable and destructive
among the 355 hurricanes that have swept over the West Indies from 1492 to 1899. Not a single
island has escaped the tempest's ravages. I have endeavored in vain to make an approximate
computation of the human life and property destroyed by these visitations of Providence. Such
a computation is impossible when we read of entire towns destroyed not once but 6, 8, and 10
times; of crops swept away by the tempest's fury, and the subsequent starvation of untold thousands;
of whole fleets of ships swallowed up by the sea with every soul on board, and of hundreds
of others cast on shore like coco shards.

To give an idea of the appalling disasters caused by these too oft recurring phenomena, the
above-mentioned bulletin gives Flammarion's description of the great hurricane of 1780.[86]

"The most terrible cyclone of modern times is probably that which occurred on October 10, 1780,
which has been specially called the great hurricane, and which seems to have embodied all the
horrible scenes that attend a phenomenon of this kind. Starting from Barbados, where trees
and houses were all blown down, it engulfed an English fleet anchored before St. Lucia, and
then ravaged the whole of that island, where 6,000 persons were buried beneath the ruins. From
thence it traveled to Martinique, overtook a French transport fleet and sunk 40 ships conveying
4,000 soldiers. The vessels disappeared."

Such is the laconic language in which the governor reported the disaster. Farther north, Santo
Domingo, St. Vincent, St. Eustatius, and Puerto Rico were devastated, and most of the vessels
that were sailing in the track of the cyclone were lost with all on board. Beyond Puerto Rico
the tempest turned northeast toward Bermuda, and though its violence gradually decreased, it
nevertheless sunk several English vessels. This hurricane was quite as destructive inland.
Nine thousand persons perished in Martinique, and 1,000 in St. Pierre, where not a single house
was left standing, for the sea rose to a height of 25 feet, and 150 houses that were built
along the shore were engulfed. At Port Royal the cathedral, 7 churches, and 1,400 houses were
blown down; 1,600 sick and wounded were buried beneath the ruins of the hospital. At St. Eustatius,
7 vessels were dashed to pieces on the rocks, and of the 19 which lifted their anchors and
went out to sea, only 1 returned. At St. Lucia the strongest buildings were torn up from their
foundations, a cannon was hurled a distance of more than 30 yards, and men as well as animals
were lifted off their feet and carried several yards. The sea rose so high that it destroyed
the fort and drove a vessel against the hospital with such force as to stave in the walls of
that building. Of the 600 houses at Kingston, on the island of St. Vincent, 14 alone remained
intact, and the French frigate Junon was lost. Alarming consequences were feared from the number
of dead bodies which lay uninterred, and the quantity of fish the sea threw up, but these alarms
soon subsided...."

"The aboriginal inhabitants," says Abbad, "foresaw these catastrophes two or three days in
advance. They were sure of their approach when they perceived a hazy atmosphere, the red aspect
of the sun, a dull, rumbling, subterranean sound, the stars shining through a kind of mist
which made them look larger, the nor'west horizon heavily clouded, a strong-smelling emanation
from the sea, a heavy swell with calm weather, and sudden changes of the wind from east to
west." The Spanish settlers also learned to foretell the approach of a hurricane by the sulphurous
exhalations of the earth, but especially by the incessant neighing of horses, bellowing of
cattle, and general restlessness of these animals, who seem to acquire a presentiment of the
coming danger.

"The physical features of hurricanes are well understood. The approach of a hurricane is usually
indicated by a long swell on the ocean, propagated to great distances, and forewarning the
observer by two or three days. A faint rise in the barometer occurs before the gradual fall,
which becomes very pronounced at the center. Fine wisps of cirrus-clouds are first seen, which
surround the center to a distance of 200 miles; the air is calm and sultry, but this is gradually
supplanted by a gentle breeze, and later the wind increases to a gale, the clouds become matted,
the sea rough, rain falls, and the winds are gusty and dangerous as the vortex comes on. Then
comes the indescribable tempest, dealing destruction, impressing the imagination with the wild
exhibition of the forces of nature, the flashes of lightning, the torrents of rain, the cold
air, all the elements in an uproar, which indicate the close approach of the center. In the
midst of this turmoil there is a sudden pause, the winds almost cease, the sky clears, the
waves, however, rage in great turbulence. This is the eye of the storm, the core of the vortex,
and it is, perhaps, 20 miles in diameter, or one-thirtieth of the whole hurricane. The respite
is brief, and is soon followed by the abrupt renewal of the violent wind and rain, but now
coming from the opposite direction, and the storm passes off with the several features following
each other in the reverse order." [87]

The distribution over the months of the year of the 355 West Indian hurricanes which occurred
during the four hundred and six years elapsed since the discovery, to the last on the list,
is as follows:

          Months.        No of hurricanes.

          January           5
          February          7
          March            11
          April             6
          May               5
          June             10
          July             42
          August           96
          September        80
          October          69
          November         17
          December          7

                          355

Puerto Rico has been devastated by hurricanes more than 20 times since its occupation by the
Spaniards. But the records, beyond the mere statement of the facts, are very incomplete. Four
stand out prominently as having committed terrible ravages. These are the hurricanes of Santa
Ana, on July 26, 1825; Los Angeles, on August 2,1837; San Narciso, on October 29, 1867, and
San Ciriaco, on August 8, 1899.

The first mention of the occurrence of a hurricane in this island we find in a letter from
the crown officers to the king, dated August 8, 1515, wherein they explain: " ... In these
last smeltings there was little gold, because many Indians died in consequence of sickness
caused by the tempest as well as from want of food ..."

The next we read of was October 8, 1526, and is thus described by licentiate Juan de Vadillo:

"On the night of the 4th of October last there broke over this island such a violent storm
of wind and rain, which the natives call 'ou-ra-cán' that it destroyed the greater part of
this city (San Juan) with the church. In the country it caused such damage by the overflow
of rivers that many rich men have been made poor."

On September 8, 1530, Governor Francisco Manuel de Lando reported to the king: "During the
last six weeks there have been three storms of wind and rain in this island (July 26, August
23 and 31). They have destroyed all the plantations, drowned many cattle, and caused much hunger
and misery in the land. In this city the half of the houses were entirely destroyed, and of
the other half the least injured is without a roof. In the country and in the mines nothing
has remained standing. Everybody is ruined and thinking of going away."

1537.--July and August. The town officers wrote to the king in September: "In the last two
months we have had three storms of wind and rain, the greatest that have been seen in this
island, and as the plantations are along the banks of the rivers the floods have destroyed
them all. Many slaves and cattle have been drowned, and this has caused much discouragement
among the settlers, who before were inclined to go away, and are now more so."

1575.--September 21 (San Mateo), hurricane mentioned in the memoirs of Father Torres Vargas.

1614.--September 12, mentioned by the same chronicler in the following words: "Fray Pedro de
Solier came to his bishopric in the year 1615, the same in which a great tempest occurred,
after more than forty years since the one called of San Mateo. This one happened on the 12th
of September. It did so much damage to the cathedral that it was necessary partly to cover
it with straw and write to his Majesty asking for a donation to repair it. With his accustomed
generosity he gave 4,000 ducats."

1678.--Abbad states that a certain Count or Duke Estren, an English commander, with a fleet
of 22 ships and a body of landing troops appeared before San Juan and demanded its surrender,
but that, before the English had time to land, a violent hurricane occurred which stranded
every one of the British ships on Bird Island. Most of the people on board perished, and the
few who saved their lives were made prisoners of war.

1740.--Precise date unknown. Monsieur Moreau de Jonnès, in his work,[88] says that this hurricane
destroyed a coco-palm grove of 5 or 6 leagues in extent, which existed near Ponce. Other writers
confirm this.

1772, August 28.--Friar Iñigo Abbad, who was in the island at the time, gives the following
description of this tempest: "About a quarter to eleven of the night of the 28th of August
the storm began to be felt in the capital of the island. A dull but continuous roll of thunder
filled the celestial hemisphere, the sound as of approaching torrents of rain, the frightful
sight of incessant lightning, and a slow quaking of the earth accompanied the furious wind.
The tearing up of trees, the lifting of roofs, smashing of windows, and leveling of everything
added terror-striking noises to the scene. The tempest raged with the same fury in the capital
till after one o'clock in the morning. In other parts of the island it began about the same
hour, but without any serious effect till later. In Aguáda, where I was at the time, nothing
was felt till half-past two in the morning. It blew violently till a quarter to four, and the
wind continued, growing less strong, till noon. During this time the wind came from all points
of the compass, and the storm visited every part of the island, causing more damage in some
places than others, according to their degree of exposure."

1780, June 13, and 1788, August 16.--No details of these two hurricanes are found in any of
the Puerto Rican chronicles.

1804, September 4.--A great cyclone, a detailed description of which is given in the work of
Mr. Jonnés.

1818 and 1814--Both hurricanes happened on the same date, that is, the 23d of July. Yauco and
San German suffered most. A description of the effects of these storms was given in the Dario
Económico of the 11th of August, 1814.

1819, September 21.--(San Mateo.) This cyclone is mentioned by Jonnés and by Córdova, who says
that it caused extraordinary damages on the plantations.

1825, July 26.--(Santa Ana.) Córdova (vol. ii, p. 21 of his Memoirs) says of this hurricane:
"It destroyed the towns of Patillas, Maunabó, Yabucóa, Humacáo, Gurabó, and Cáguas. In the
north, east, and center of the island it caused great damage. More than three hundred people
and a large number of cattle perished; 500 persons were badly wounded. The rivers rose to an
unheard of extent, and scarcely a house remained standing. In the capital part of the San Antonio
bridge was blown down, and the city wall facing the Marina on Tanca Creek was cracked. The
royal Fortaleza (the present Executive Mansion) suffered much, also the house of Ponce. The
lightning-conductors of the powder-magazine were blown down."

1837, August 2.--(Los Angeles.) This cyclone was general over the island and caused exceedingly
grave losses of life and property. All the ships in the harbor of San Juan were lost.

1840, September 16.--No details.

1851, August 18.--No details, except that this hurricane caused considerable damage.

1867, October 29.--(San Narciso.) No details.

 1871, August 23.--(San Felipe.) No details. 1899, August
8.--(San Ciriaco.) When this hurricane occurred there was a
meteorological station in operation in San Juan, and we are therefore
enabled to present the following data from Mr. Geddings's report: "The
rainfall was excessive, as much as 23 inches falling at Adjuntas
during the course of twenty-four hours. This caused severe inundations
of rivers, and the deaths from drowning numbered 2,569 as compared
with 800 killed by injuries received from the effects of the wind.
This number does not include the thousands who have since died from
starvation. The total loss of property was 35,889,013 pesos."

The United States Government and people promptly came to the assistance of the starving population,
and something like 32,000,000 rations were distributed by the army during the ten months succeeding
the hurricane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such are the calamities that are suspended over the heads of the inhabitants of the West Indian
Islands. From July to October, at any moment, the sapphire skies may turn black with thunder-clouds;
the Eden-like landscapes turned into scenes of ruin and desolation; the rippling ocean that
lovingly laves their shores becomes a roaring monster trying to swallow them. The refreshing
breezes that fan them become a destructive blast. Yet, such is the fecundity of nature in these
regions that a year after a tempest has swept over an island, if the debris be removed, not
a trace of its passage is visible--the fields are as green as ever, the earth, the trees, and
plants that were spared by the tempest double their productive powers as if to indemnify the
afflicted inhabitants for the losses they suffered.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 85: See Bulletin H, Weather Bureau, West Indian Hurricanes, by E.B. Garriott, Washington,
1900.]

[Footnote 86: L'Atmosphère, p. 377 and following.]

[Footnote 87: Enrique del Monte, Havana University, On the Climate of the West Indies and West
Indian Hurricanes.]

[Footnote 88: Histoire physique des Antilles Françaises.]

CHAPTER XLII

THE CARIBS

The origin of the Caribs, their supposed cannibalism and other customs have occasioned much
controversy among West Indian chroniclers. The first question is undecided, and probably will
remain so forever. With regard to cannibalism, in spite of the confirmative assurances of the
early Spanish chroniclers, we have the testimony of eminent authorities to the contrary; and
the writings of Jesuit missionaries who have lived many years among the Caribs give us a not
unfavorable idea of their character and social institutions.

The first European who became intimately acquainted with the people of the West Indian Islands,
on the return from his first voyage, wrote to the Spanish princes: " ... In all these islands
I did not observe much difference in the faces and figures of the inhabitants, nor in their
customs, nor in their language, seeing that they all understand each other, which is very singular."
On the other hand the readiness with which the inhabitants of Aye-Aye and the other Carib islands
gave asylum to the fugitive Boriquén Indians and joined them in their retaliatory expeditions,
also points to the existence of some bond of kinship between them, so that there is ground
for the opinion entertained by some writers that all the inhabitants of all the Antilles were
of the race designated under the generic name of Caribs.

The theory generally accepted at first was, that at the time of the discovery two races of
different origin occupied the West Indian Archipelago. The larger Antilles with the groups
of small islands to the north of them were supposed to be inhabited by a race named Guaycures,
driven from the peninsula of Florida by the warlike Seminoles; the Guaycures, it is said, could
easily have reached the Bahamas and traversed the short distance that separated them from Cuba
in their canoes, some of which could contain 100 men, and once there they would naturally spread
over the neighboring islands. It is surmised that they occupied them at the time of the advent
of the Phoenicians in this hemisphere, and Dr. Calixto Romero, in an interesting article on
Lucúo, the god of the Boriquéns,[89] mentions a tradition referring to the arrival of these
ancient navigators, and traces some of the Boriquén religious customs to them. The Guaycures
were a peacefully disposed race, hospitable, indolent, fond of dancing and singing, by means
of which they transmitted their legends from generation to generation. They fell an easy prey
to the Spaniards. Velasquez conquered Cuba without the loss of a man. Juan Esquivél made himself
master of Jamaica with scarcely any sacrifice, and if the aborigines of the Española and Boriquén
resisted, it was only after patiently enduring insupportable oppression for several years.

The other race which inhabited the Antilles were said to have come from the south. They were
supposed to have descended the Orinoco, spreading along the shore of the continent to the west
of the river's mouths and thence to have invaded one after the other all the lesser Antilles.
They were in a fair way of occupying the larger Antilles also when the discoveries of Columbus
checked their career.

In support of the theory of the south-continental origin of the Caribs we have, in the first
place, the work of Mr. Aristides Rojas on Venezuelan hieroglyphics, wherein he treats of numerous
Carib characters on the rocks along the plains and rivers of that republic, marking their itinerary
from east to west. He states that the Acháguas, the aboriginals of Columbia, gave to these
wanderers, on account of their ferocity, the name of Chabi-Nabi, that is, tiger-men or descendants
of tigers.

In the classification of native tribes in Codazzi's geography of Venezuela, he includes the
Caribs, and describes them as "a very numerous race, enterprising and warlike, which in former
times exercised great influence over the whole territory extending from Ecuador to the Antilles.
They were the tallest and most robust Indians known on the continent; they traded in slaves,
and though they were cruel and ferocious in their incursions, they were not cannibals like
their kinsmen of the lesser Antilles, who were so addicted to the custom of eating their prisoners
that the names of cannibal and Carib had become synonymous." [90]

Another theory of the origin of the Caribs is that advanced by M. d'Orbigny, who, after eight
years of travel over the South American continent, published the result of his researches in
Paris in 1834. He considers them to be a branch of the great Guaraní family. And the Jesuit
missionaries, Fathers Raymond and Dutertre, who lived many years among the Antillean Caribs,
concluded from their traditions that they were descended from a people on the continent named
Galibis, who, according to M. d'Orbigny, were a branch of the Guaranís.

But the Guaranís, though a very wide-spread family of South American aborigines, were neither
a conquering nor a wandering race. They occupied that part of the continent situated between
the rivers Paraguay and Paraná, from where these two rivers join the river Plate, northward,
to about latitude 22° south. This region was the home of the Guaranís, a people indolent, sensual,
and peaceful, among whom the Jesuits, in the eighteenth century founded a religious republic,
which toward the end of that period counted 33 towns with a total population of over one hundred
thousand souls. A glance at the map will show the improbability of any Indian tribe, no matter
how warlike, making its way from the heart of the continent to the Orinoco through 30° of primitive
forests, mountains, and rivers, inhabited by hostile tribes.[91]

The French missionaries who lived many years with the Caribs of Guadeloupe and the other French
possessions, do not agree on the subject of their origin. Fathers Dutertre and Raymond believe
them to be the descendants of the Galibis, a people inhabiting Guiana. Fathers Rochefort, Labat,
and Bristol maintain that they are descended from the Apalaches who inhabited the northern
part of Florida. Humboldt is of the same opinion, and suggests that the name Carib may be derived
from Calina or Caripuna through transformation of the letters l and p into r and b, forming
Caribi or Galibi.[92] Pedro Martyr strongly opposes this opinion, the principal objection to
which is that a tribe from the North American continent invading the West Indies by way of
Florida would naturally occupy the larger Antilles before traveling east and southward. Under
this hypothesis, as we have said, all the inhabitants of the Antilles would be Caribs, but
in that case the difference in the character of the inhabitants of the two divisions of the
archipelago would have to be accounted for.

Most of the evidence we have been able to collect on this subject points to a south-continental
origin of the Caribs. On the maps of America, published in 1587 by Abraham Ortellus, of Antwerp,
in 1626 by John Speed, of London, and in 1656 by Sanson d'Abbeville in Paris, the whole region
to the north of the Orinoco is marked Caribana. In the history of the Dutch occupation of Guiana
we read that hostile Caribs occupied a shelter[93] constructed in 1684 by the governor on the
borders of the Barima, which shows that the vast region along the Orinoco and its tributaries,
as well as the lesser Antilles, was inhabited by an ethnologically identical race.

       *       *       *       *       *

Were the Caribs cannibals? This question has been controverted as much as that of their origin,
and with the same doubtful result.

The only testimony upon which the assumption that the Caribs were cannibals is founded is that
of the companions of Columbus on his second voyage, when, landing at Guadeloupe, they found
human bones and skulls in the deserted huts. No other evidence of cannibalism of a positive
character was ever after obtained, so that the belief in it rests exclusively upon Chanca's
narrative of what the Spaniards saw and learned during the few days of their stay among the
islands. Their imagination could not but be much excited by the sight of what the doctor describes
as "infinite quantities" of bones of human creatures, who, they took for granted, had been
devoured, and of skulls hanging on the walls by way of receptacles for curios. It was the age
of universal credulity, and for more than a century after the most absurd tales with regard
to the people and things of the mysterious new continent found ready credence even among men
of science. Columbus, in his letter to Santangel (February, 1493), describing the different
islands and people, wrote: "I have not yet seen any of the human monsters that are supposed
to exist here." The descriptions of the customs of the natives of the newly discovered islands
which Dr. Chanca sent to the town council of Seville were unquestioned by them, and afterward
by the Spanish chroniclers; but there is reason to believe with Mr. Ignacio Armas, an erudite
Cuban author, who published a paper in 1884 entitled the Fable of the Caribs, that the belief
in their cannibalism originated in an error of judgment, was an illusion afterward, and ended
by being a calumny[97]. Father Bartolomé de las Casas was the first to contradict this belief.
"They [the Spaniards] saw skulls," he says, "and human bones. These must have been of chiefs
or other persons whom they held in esteem, because, to say that they were the remains of people
who had been eaten, if the natives devoured as many as was supposed, the houses could not contain
the bones, and there is no reason why, after eating them, they should preserve the relics.
All this is but guesswork." Washington Irving agrees with the reverend historian, and describes
the general belief in the cannibalism of the Caribs to the Spaniards' fear of them. Two eminent
authorities positively deny it. Humboldt, in his before-cited work, in the chapter on Carib
missions, says: "All the missionaries of the Carony, of the lower Orinoco, and of the plains
of Cari, whom we have had occasion to consult, have assured us that the Caribs were perhaps
the least anthropophagous of any tribes on the new continent, ..." and Sir Robert Schomburgh,
who was charged by the Royal Geographical Society with the survey of Guiana in 1835, reported
that among the Caribs he found peace and contentment, simple family affections, and frank gratitude
for kindness shown.[94]

       *       *       *       *       *

The narratives of the French, English, and Dutch conquerors of the Guianas and the lesser Antilles
accord with the observations of Humboldt in describing the Caribs as an ambitious and intelligent
race, among whom there still existed traces of a superior social organization, such as the
hereditary power of chiefs, respect for the priestly caste, and attachment to ancient customs.
Employed only in fishing and hunting, the Carib was accustomed to the use of arms from childhood;
war was the principal object of his existence, and the proofs through which the young warrior
had to pass before being admitted to the ranks of the braves, remind us of the customs of certain
North American Indians.

They were of a light yellow color with a sooty tint, small, black eyes, white and well-formed
teeth, straight, shining, black hair, without a beard or hair on any other part of their bodies.
The expression of their face was sad, like that of all savage tribes in tropical regions. They
were of middle size, but strong and vigorous. To protect their bodies from the stings of insects
they anointed them with the juice or oil of certain plants. They were polygamous. From their
women they exacted the most absolute submission. The females did all the domestic labor, and
were not permitted to eat in the presence of the men. In case of infidelity the husband had
the right to kill his wife. Each family formed a village by itself (carbet) where the oldest
member ruled.

Their industry, besides the manufacture of their arms and canoes, was limited to the spinning
and dyeing of cotton goods, notably their hammocks, and the making of pottery for domestic
uses. Though possessing no temples, nor religious observances, they recognized two principles
or spirits, the spirit of good (boyee) and the spirit of evil (maboya). The priests invoked
the first or drove out the second as occasion required. Each individual had his good spirit.

Their language resembled in sound the Italian, the words being sonorous, terminating in vowels.
By the end of the eighteenth century the missionaries had made vocabularies of 50 Carib dialects,
and the Bible had been translated into one of them, the Arawak. A remarkable custom was the
use of two distinct languages, one by the males, another by the females. Tradition says that
when the Caribs first invaded the Antilles they put to death all the males but spared the females.
The women continued speaking their own tongue and taught it to their daughters, but the sons
learned their fathers' language. In time, both males and females learned both languages.

"It is true," says the Jesuit Father Rochefort, in his Histoire des Antilles, "that the Caribs
have degenerated from the virtues of their ancestors, but it is also true that the Europeans,
by their pernicious examples, their ill-treatment of them, their villainous deceit, their dastardly
breaking of every promise, their pitiless plundering and burning of their villages, their beastly
violation of their girls and women, have taught them, to the eternal infamy of the name of
Christian, to lie, to betray, to be licentious, and other vices which they knew not before
they came in contact with us."

Father Dutertre declares that at the time of the arrival of the Europeans the Caribs were contented,
happy, and sociable. Physically they were the best made and healthiest people of America. Theft
was unknown to them, nothing was hidden; their huts had neither doors nor windows, and when,
after the advent of the French, a Carib missed anything in his hut, he used to say: "A Christian
has been here!" Dutertre says that in thirty-five years all the French missionaries together,
by taking the greatest pains, had not been able to convert 20 adults. Those who were thought
to have embraced Christianity returned to their practises as soon as they rejoined their fellows.
"The reason for this want of success," says the father, "is the bad impression produced on
the minds of these intelligent natives by the cruelties and immoralities of the Christians,
which are more barbarous than those of the islanders themselves. They have inspired the Caribs
with such a horror of Christianity that the greatest reproach they can think of for an enemy
is to call him a Christian."

The reason the Spaniards never attempted the conquest of the Caribs is clear. There was no
gold in their islands. They defended their homes foot by foot, and if, by chance, they were
taken prisoners, they preferred suicide to slavery. Toward the end of the eighteenth century
there still existed a few hundred of the race in the island of St. Vincent. They were known
as the black Caribs, because they were largely mixed with fugitive negro slaves from other
islands and with the people of a slave-ship wrecked on their coast in 1685. They lived there
tranquil and isolated till 1795, when the island was settled by French colonists, and they
were finally absorbed by them. They were the last representatives in the Antilles of a race
which, during five centuries, had ruled both on land and sea. On the continent, along the Esequibo
and its affluents, they are numerous still; but in their contact with the European settlers
in those regions they have lost the strength and the virtues of their former state without
acquiring those of the higher civilization. Like all aboriginals under similar conditions,
they are slowly disappearing.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 89: Revista Puertoriqueña, Tomo I, Año I, 1887.]

[Footnote 90: The word "cannibal" is but a corruption of guaribó, is, "brave or strong," changed
into Caribó, Caríba, and finally that Carib. The name Galibi, also applied to the Caribs, means
equally strong or brave.]

[Footnote 91: The author visited this region and sketched some of the ruins of these Jesuit-Guarani
missions, of which scarcely one stone has remained on the other. They were destroyed by the
Brazilians after the suppression of the Society of Jesus by Pope Clement XIV in 1773; the defenseless
Indians were cruelly butchered or carried off as slaves. The sculptured remains of temples,
of gardens and orchards grown into jungles still attest the high degree of development attained
by these missions under the guidance of the Jesuit fathers.]

[Footnote 92: Voyage aux Regions Equinoctiales du Nouveau Continent, Paris, 1826.]

[Footnote 93: "Kleyn pleysterhuisye," small plaster house.]

[Footnote 94: As an example of the credulity of the people of the period, see Theodore Bry's
work in the library of Congress in Washington, in which there is a map of Guiana, published
in Frankfort in 1599. On it are depicted with short descriptions the lake of Parmié and the
city of Manáo, which represent El Dorado, in search of which hundreds of Spaniards and thousands
of Indians lost their lives. There is a picture of one of the Amazons, with a short notice
of their habits and customs, and there is the portrait of one of the inhabitants of the country
Twai-Panoma, who were born without heads, but had eyes, nose, and mouth conveniently located
in their breast.]

BIBLIOGRAPHY  The history of Puerto Rico has long since been a subject of study and research
by native writers and others, to whose works we owe many of the data contained in this book.
Their names, in alphabetical order, are:

ABBAD, FRAY IÑIGO.--Historia geográfica, civil y natural de San Juan Bautista de Puerto Rico.
Madrid, 1788.

AGOSTA, D. JOSÉ JULIÁN.--New edition of Abbad's history, with notes and commentaries. Puerto
Rico, 1866.

BRAU, D. SALVADOR.--Puerto Rico y su historia. (Critical investigations.)Valencia, 1894.

CEDÓ, D. SANTIAGO.--Compendio de geografía para instrucción de la juventud portoriqueña. Mayaguez,
1855.

COELLO, D. FRANCISCO.--Mapa de la isla de Puerto Rico, ilustrado con notas históricas y estadísticas
escritas por Don Pascual Madoz. Madrid, 1851.

COLL Y TOSTE, D. CAYETANO.--Colón en Puerto Rico. (Disquisiciones histórico-filológicas.) Puerto
Rico, 1894. Repertorio histórico de Puerto Rico. A monthly publication.

CÓRDOVA, D. PEDRO TOMÁS.--Memorias geográficas, históricas, económicas y estadísticas de la
isla de Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico, 1830. Memoria sobre todos los ramos de la administración
de la isla de Puerto Rico. Madrid, 1838.

CORTÓN, D. ANTONIO.--La separación de mandos en Puerto Rico. Discurso escrito y comenzado á
leer ante la Comisión del Congreso de los Diputados. Habana, 1890.

JIMENO AGIUS, J.--Puerto Rico. Madrid, 1890. LEDRU, ANDRÉ PIERRE.--Voyage aux iles Ténériffe,
la Trinité, St. Thomas, Ste. Croix et Porto Rico, avec des notes et des additions par Sonnini,
Paris, 1810. (A work full of fantastic and imaginary data, without any historical value.)

MELENDEZ Y BRUNA, D. SALVADOR.--Puerto Rico. Representation of the Governor of the Island to
the King. Cadiz, 1811.

NAZARIO, D. JOSÉ MARÍA.--Guayanilla y la historia de Puerto Rico. Ponce, 1893.

PÉREZ MORIS, D. JOSÉ, Y CUETO, D. LUIS.--Historia de la insurrección de Lares.

SAMA, D. MANUEL MARÍA.--El desembarco de Colón en Puerto Rico y el Monumento de Culebrinas,
Mayaguez, 1895.

STAHL, D. AGUSTIN.--Los Indios Borinqueños. Puerto Rico, 1887.

TAPIA, D. ALEJANDRO.--Biblioteca histórica de Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico, 1854.

TORRES, D. LUIS LLORENS.--América. Estudios históricos y filológicos. Madrid y Barcelona, 1897.

UBEDA Y DELGADO, D. MANUEL.--Isla de Puerto Rico, Estudio histórico-geográfico. Puerto Rico, 1878.

There are other writings on subjects connected with the island's history by native authors,
some published in book or pamphlet form, others, like those of Zeno Gandía, Neumann, Dr. Dominguez,
and Navarrete, have appeared in the columns of periodicals at different times before the American
occupation of the island.

     INDEX

     Abbad, Friar Iñigo, his history of
       Puerto Rico; cited; on
       state of agriculture in 1776.

     Abercrombie, Sir Ralph, attacks San
       Juan.

     Aborigines, see Indians.

     Agriculture, inhabitants of Puerto
       Rico forced to turn to;
       condition of, in 1776.

     Aguáda, its history.

     Albemarle, Earl of, captures
       Havana.

     Alexander VI, Pope, divides the
       world between Spain and
       Portugal.

     American army, landing of;
       recognized as liberators,; also
       see preface v.

     Americans, interest of, in the
       insurrection of Lares, 1868.

     Antigua, discovery of.

     Arecibo, town of.

     Armada, effects of destruction of.

     Autonomy granted to Puerto Rico.

     Bastidas, Bishop Rodrigo, charged
       with liberating Indian slaves in
       Puerto Rico.

     Beet-sugar, its injurious
       competition with cane-sugar, 228.

     Bemini (Florida), island of, King
       Ferdinand wants Ponce to explore
       it, 59; Indian reports of, 60;
       discovery of, 61.

     Blake, English admiral, captures
       Spanish galleons, 136.

     Blasquez, Juan, judge-auditor of
       Puerto Rico, 102.

     Boabdil, last of the Moorish kings.

     Boriquén, first known name of
       Puerto Rico; seat of Guaybána; Boriqueños
       restless; revolt in; last of the Boriquén
       Indians; the republic of, proclaimed; falls;
       native inhabitants of.

     Bowdoin, Hendrick, commands
       Dutch fleet in attack on San Juan.

     Brau, his history of Puerto Rico quoted.

     Bruckman, an American, takes
       active part in insurrection;
       shot.

     Buccaneers, their origin.

     Cacáo.

     Cannibals, supposed to be found among
       the Caribs.

     Capárra, first settlement of Spaniards
       in Puerto Rico; capital transferred
       from, to San Juan; the old capital.

     Capital, transferred from Capárra to Sun Juan.

     Caribs, supposed by Columbus to be
       on Guadeloupe; annoy Spaniards in Puerto
       Rico; assist the Boriquén Indians; raids in
       Puerto Rico; in Dominica punished by the
       Spaniards; in the Windward Islands; their
       extermination of aborigines of the West
       Indies; origin of; characteristics; were they
       cannibals?; disappearing.

     Castellano y Villaroya, Spanish Colonial
       Minister, intercedes in behalf of Puerto
       Rico.

     Castellanos, Juan, brings 75 colonists
       to Puerto Rico; attorney for Puerto
       Rico at the court of Spain.

     Castellanos, Juan de, treasurer of Puerto Rico.

     Castro, Baltazar, reports depredations of Caribs.

     Ceron, Juan, Governor of Puerto Rico;
       arrested by Juan Ponce;
       restored to office;
       returns to Puerto Rico as governor.

     Cervantes de Loayza, governor.

     Charles V, King of Spain;
       quarrels with Francis I of France;
       orders the fortification of San German.

     Cholera, epidemic of.

     Church, in general.

     Cities, growth of.

     Clergy;
       the island made a diocese;
       Alonzo Manso, first prelate;
       decree of Isabel II affecting clergy.

     Coco-palm introduced.

     Coffee.

     Columbus, Christopher, returns from his first
       voyage; received by the court at Barcelona;
       second expedition organized; his second
       expedition sails from Cadiz; discovers the
       Windward Islands; introduces system of
       enslaving the Indians by "distribution" of
       them among settlers.

     Columbus, Diego, with Christopher
       Columbus's second expedition; viceroy and
       admiral, in la Española; deposes Ponce;
       authority of, suspended; deprived of the
       power of appointing Governor of Puerto Rico.

     Commerce, its development; imports
       and exports.

     Cortéz, his conquest of Mexico.

     Cromwell, his alliance with France
       against Spain.

     Cuba, influence of Cuban revolution on
       Puerto Rico; reforms in, suggested by
       Sagasta.

     De la Gama, Antonio, charged with executing
       the royal decree against the "distribution" of Indians.

     Diaz, Bernal, de Pisa, with Columbus's
       second expedition.

     Diego, Rafael, organizer of the revolution
       of 1812.

     Distribution of Indians among the Spanish
       conquerors as slaves;
       system introduced by Columbus.

     Dominica, discovery of;
       Caribs in, aid Puerto Rico Indians against
       the Spaniards; Spanish expedition against
       Caribs in.

     Dominicans, order of.

     Drake, Francis, his expeditions in the
       Caribbean.

     Education;
       illiteracy and general ignorance; in hands of
       clergy; new interest in; first college;
       schools.

     Elective system.

     England contracts to take slaves into
       the Spanish-American colonies.

     English, ship visits Puerto Rico and
       alarms inhabitants; war with, fleet sent
       against Spaniards in West Indies; fleet
       anchors off "Caleta del Cabron," and is fired
       on by Spaniards; abandons the attack;
       alliance with France against Spain; capture
       Havana; attack San Juan.

     Española (Santo Domingo).

     Fajardo, town of.

     Ferdinand, King of Spain, his interest
       in Puerto Rico.

     Fetichism in the religion of the peasantry.

     Filibusters, origin of.

     Finance.

     Florida, discovery of;
       Ponce's last expedition to.

     Francis I, King of France, quarrel
       with Charles V of Spain.

     Franciscans, order of.

     French, send privateers to attack the Antilles;
       capture San German twice and destroy it;
       attack Guayama; fail in an attack on Puerto
       Rico; alliance with English against Spain;
       pirates in the Caribbean.

     Fuente, Alonso la, his letters to the
       Spanish Government.

     Ginger.

     Gold, in Puerto Rico;
       early search for; first discovery;
       gold-bearing streams; production of
       gold.

     Government of Puerto Rico, instructions
       by the King of Spain.

     Guadeloupe, discovery of;
       Caribs in, aid Puerto Rico Indians
       against the Spaniards.

     Guaybána, cacique in Puerto Rico;
       death of.

     Guaybána second, heads revolt against
       the Spaniards; massacres Spaniards;
       is defeated; killed.

     Haro, Juan de, governor, defends San
       Juan against the Dutch.

     Havana, captured by the English under
       the Earl of Albemarle and Admiral
       Pocock.

     Hawkyns, John, his freebooting
       voyages among the Antilles; his fleet
       captured; killed.

     Holland, Spain's war with;
       sends fleet against Puerto Rico;
       it is defeated.

     Hurricanes in the West Indies;
       in Puerto Rico.

     Indians, system of "distribution" of,
       introduced; in revolt; slaughter Spaniards;
       defeated by Ponce; number of, in Puerto Rico;
       "distribution" of; rapid decrease of;
       condition of; efforts to prevent extinction
       of; "distribution" of, among settlers
       forbidden;  the last 80 survivors liberated
       from slavery; last report of the Boriquén
       Indians.

     Inquisition, the, in Puerto Rico;
       Nicolas Ramos, the last Inquisitor;
       abolition of the Inquisition;
       reestablished.

     Isabel II, her decree declaring property
       of the secular clergy national property.

     Jews, property of, confiscated to supply
       funds for Columbus's second expedition.

     Jíbaro, the Puerto Rican peasant;
       customs of.

     Lando, Governor of Puerto Rico, tries
       to prevent persons leaving the island.

     Lares, the insurrection of.

     Las Casas, Bartolomé de, his "Relations
       of the Indies" cited; seeks to prevent
       extinction of Indians; favors introduction of
       negro slaves.

     Laws, reform, promised;
       electoral.

     Leeward Islands, discovery of.

     Le Grand, Pierre, the French pirate.

     Libraries; since American occupation.

     Loiza, settlement of.

     l'Olonais, sobriquet of Sables d'Olone,
       q.v.

     Macias, Manuel, governor-general, declares
       the island in a state of war.

     Manso, Alonzo, first bishop of Puerto
       Rico.

     Marie-Galante, discovery of.

     Mayor, Soto, forms a settlement at Guánica;
       killed by Indians.

     McCormick, James, his report on Puerto
       Rico in 1880.

     Mestizos, or mixed races.

     Military service, number of men in Puerto
       Rico able to carry arms.

     Mixed races;
       prejudice against.

     Montbras, French pirate.

     Morals in the island under Spanish rule.

     Morgan, Sir Henry, the pirate.

     Mulattoes in the Spanish colony.

     Napoleon, his influence over Spain.

     Natives, see Indians.

     Negroes, introduced into Santo Domingo
       as slaves; into Puerto Rico; as slaves in
       Puerto Rico; introduced to save the Indians
       from extermination; intermix with Indians;
       number of, in the island; severe laws
       against.

     Newspapers.

     O'Daly, General, leads successful
       revolution in Puerto Rico.

     Palm, coco-, introduced.

     Papers, see Newspapers.

     Peasants of Puerto Rico.

     Peru, gold discoveries there serve to
       attract many settlers from Puerto
       Rico.

     Philip I, his character.

     Philip II, death of.

     Pirates, see Buccaneers and Filibusters.

     Pocock, English admiral, and the Earl
       of Albemarle, capture Havana.

     Political rights.

     Ponce, Juan, de Leon, with Columbus's
       second expedition; lands on Puerto Rico;
       appointed governor; deposed; restored;
       arrests Ceron; recalled by the King of Spain;
       defeats Guaybána with 5,000 to 6,000 Indians;
       deprived of his privileges; retires to
       Capárra; prepares for exploring the island of
       Bemini; discovers Florida; honored by the
       king; ordered to destroy the Caribs; accused
       of fomenting discord in Puerto Rico; last
       expedition to Florida, wounded, dies;
       monument to him in San Juan.

     Population, growth of.

     Portugal, Alexander VI divides world
       between Portugal and Spain.

     Press, the;
       first printing-press.

     Prim, John, Count of Reus, his severe
       proclamation against the negroes.

     Primitive inhabitants.

     Products.

     Puerto Rico, discovery of;
       first settlement, at Capárra; made a
       bishopric; name of Puerto Rico first used
       October, 1514; divided into two departments;
       capital transferred from Capárra to present
       location, San Juan; disease and pestilence;
       destructive storms; news of gold discoveries
       in Peru causes many settlers to leave;
       inhabitants try to leave the island for the
       Peru gold fields; devastated by French and
       Indians; the inhabitants turn to agriculture,
       100; expedition sent against the French in
       Santa Cruz; English fleet, under the Earl of
       Estren, appears off San Juan; used as a
       "presidio," or place of banishment for
       political prisoners for three centuries;
       condition of, in 1765, described by Alexander
       O'Reilly; revolution headed by Rafael Diego
       and General O'Daly, 153; divided into seven
       judicial districts; political rights in the
       island; efforts of Spain to promote
       development of the island; state of society,
       159; effects of Carlist troubles in Spain;
       resources of, diminished; description of the
       island in 1880; reform laws to relieve
       financial distress; promise of reforms; the
       new electoral law; conditions in the island
       immediately before the American occupation;
       becomes part of the United States; its
       advantageous situation; soil and products;
       harbors; climate; primitive inhabitants;
       present inhabitants; era of greatest
       prosperity under Spanish rule.

     Races in Puerto Rico.

     Ramirez, Francisco, President of the
      "Republic of Boriquén,".

     Reforms, promise of, by Spanish
       Government; granted too late.

     Religion of the peasantry.

     Republic of Boriquén proclaimed.

     Revolution, against Spanish oppression.

     Rodney, English admiral, attacks French
       West Indies.

     Sables d'Olone, French pirate.

     Sagasta, suggests reforms in Puerto Rico
       and Cuba.

     Sail.

     Salazar, Diego do, heroic conduct of;
       defeats Indians.

     San German founded.

     San Juan, only settlement in Puerto
       Rico not destroyed by the French;
       the fort, "Fortaleza," still used as
       governor's residence, built in 1540;
       fortification and improvement of;
       attacked by English fleet, under Drake;
       captured by English, 120; evacuated by the
       English; attacked by English;
       history of; replaces Capárra as the
       capital.

     San Juan Bautista, island of (Puerto
       Rico).

     Santa Cruz taken and held by the French.

     Santo Domingo, discovery of.

     Schools, number and attendance of, in
       1889.

     Sedeño, Contador of Puerto Rico; his
       peculations and death.

     Slavery, Indians placed in, through the
       system of "distribution.".

     Slavery, negro, introduced into Santo
       Domingo; favored by Church and State;  first
       negro slaves in Puerto Rico; discussion of
       its abolition; abolition of; its history in
       the island; introduced to replace lost labor
       of the Indians; England contracts to take
       140,000 slaves into the Spanish-American
       colonies in thirty years; slaves emancipated.

     Spain, Alexander VI divides the world
       between Spain and Portugal; effects of her
       disastrous wars; sends fleet against
       pirates in the West Indies; abolishes
       the slave-trade.

     Spaniards, number of, in Puerto Rico;
       as colonists in Puerto Rico; no women
       among early settlers.

     Storms, damages by.

     Sugar;
       the industry injured by production of
       beet-sugar.

     Tiedra, Vasco de, Governor of Puerto
       Rico.

     Tobacco, its cultivation permitted by a
       special law.

     Trade, its growth.

     United States sends army to Puerto Rico;
       acquires the island.

     Weyler, General, his inhuman proceedings
       in Cuba.

     Windward Islands, discovered by Columbus.

     Women, none among early Spanish settlers;
       education of, neglected.

     Zambos, mixture of negro and Indian.