    I do not see how the heliacal rising of Sirius in any one year could
    help them to determine its length. By comparing two successive years
    they could of course have got at a sidereal year; but this is what
    they did not do; hence the irregularity which produced the canicular
    cycle. The commencement of that cycle is placed by ancient
    chronologers in 1322 A.C. It seems not correct to call 2782 A.C.
    "the earliest epoch of Egyptian chronology," for we have none of
    their chronology nearly so old, and in fact no chronology, properly
    so called, has yet been made out by our Egyptian researches. It is
    indeed certain that, if the reckoning by heliacal risings of Sirius
    did not begin in 1322, we must go nearly 1460 years back for its
    origin; since it must have been adopted when that event preceded
    only for a short time the annual inundation of the Nile. But,
    according to some, the year 1322 A.C. fell during the reign of
    Sesostris, to whom Herodotus ascribes several regulations connected
    with the rising of the Nile. Certainly, 2782 A.C. is a more remote
    era than we are hitherto warranted to assume for any astronomical
    observation.

                     Believe me, dear Mrs. Somerville,
                                          Very truly yours,
                                                    HENRY HALLAM.

    I refer you to Montucla, if you have any doubt about the Egyptian
    year being of 365 days without bissextile of any kind.

       *     *     *     *     *

I had sent a copy of the "Mechanism of the Heavens" to M. Poisson soon after it was published,
and I had received a letter from him dated 30th May, 1832, advising me to complete the work
by writing a volume on the form and rotation of the earth and planets. Being again strongly
advised to do so while in Paris, I now began the work, and, in consequence, I was led into
a correspondence with Mr. Ivory, who had written on the subject, and also with Mr. Francis
Baily, on the density and compression of the earth. My work was extensive, for it comprised
the analytical attraction of spheroids, the form and rotation of the earth, the tides of the
ocean and atmosphere, and small undulations.

When this was finished, I had nothing to do, and as I preferred analysis to all other subjects,
I wrote a work of 246 pages on curves and surfaces of the second and higher orders. While writing
this, con amore, a new edition of the "Physical Sciences" was much needed, so I put on high
pressure and worked at both. Had these two manuscripts been published at that time, they might
have been of use; I do not remember why they were laid aside, and forgotten till I found them
years afterwards among my papers. Long after the time I am writing about, while at Naples,
I amused myself by repairing the time-worn parts of these manuscripts, and was surprised to
find that in my eighty-ninth year I still retained facility in the "Calculus."

The second edition of the "Physical Sciences" was dedicated to my dear friend, Sir John Herschel.
It went through nine editions, and has been translated into German and Italian. The book went
through various editions in the United States, to the honour, but not to the profit, of the
author. However, the publisher obligingly sent me a copy. I must say that profit was never
an object with me: I wrote because it was impossible for me to be idle.

I had the honour of presenting a copy of my book to the Duchess of Kent at a private audience.
The Duchess and Princess Victoria were alone, and received me very graciously, and conversed
for half an hour with me. As I mentioned before, I saw the young Princess crowned: youthful,
almost child-like as she was, she went through the imposing ceremony with all the dignity of
a Queen.

    [A few letters from some of my mother's friends, written at this
    period, may prove of interest. They are chiefly written to thank her
    for copies of the Preliminary Dissertation or of the "Physical
    Sciences." One from Lord Brougham concerns my mother's estimate of
    the scientific merit of Dr. Young, for whom she had the sincerest
    admiration, considering him one of the first philosophers and
    discoverers of the age.]

    FROM MISS EDGEWORTH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    EDGWORTHTOWN, May 31st, 1832.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    There is one satisfaction at least in giving knowledge to the
    ignorant, to those who know their ignorance at least, that they are
    grateful and humble. You should have my grateful and humble thanks
    long ago for the favour--the honour--you did me by sending me that
    Preliminary Dissertation, in which there is so much knowledge, but
    that I really wished to read it over and over again at some
    intervals of time, and to have the pleasure of seeing my sister
    Harriet read it, before I should write to you. She has come to us,
    and has just been enjoying it, as I knew she would. For my part, I
    was long in the state of the boa constrictor after a full meal--and
    I am but just recovering the powers of motion. My mind was so
    distended by the magnitude, the immensity, of what you put into it!
    I am afraid that if you had been aware how ignorant I was you would
    not have sent me this dissertation, because you would have felt that
    you were throwing away much that I could not understand, and that
    could be better bestowed on scientific friends capable of judging of
    what they admire. I can only assure you that you have given me a
    great deal of pleasure; that you have enlarged my conception of the
    sublimity of the universe, beyond any ideas I had ever before been
    enabled to form.

    The great simplicity of your manner of writing, I may say of your
    mind, which appears in your writing, particularly suits the
    scientific sublime--which would be destroyed by what is commonly
    called fine writing. You trust sufficiently to the natural interest
    of your subject, to the importance of the facts, the beauty of the
    whole, and the adaptation of the means to the ends, in every part of
    the immense whole. This reliance upon your reader's feeling along
    with you, was to me very gratifying. The ornaments of eloquence
    dressing out a sublime subject are just so many proofs either of bad
    taste in the orator, or of distrust and contempt of the taste of
    those whom he is trying thus to captivate.

    I suppose nobody yet has completely mastered the tides, therefore
    I may well content myself with my inability to comprehend what
    relates to them. But instead of plaguing you with an endless
    enumeration of my difficulties, I had better tell you some of the
    passages which gave me, ignoramus as I am, peculiar pleasure.... I
    am afraid I shall transcribe your whole book if I go on to tell you
    all that has struck me, and you would not thank me for that--you,
    who have so little vanity, and so much to do better with your time
    than to read my ignorant admiration. But pray let me mention to
    you a few of the passages that amused my imagination particularly,
    viz., 1st, the inhabitant of Pallas going round his world--or who
    might go--in five or six hours in one of our steam carriages; 2nd,
    the moderate-sized man who would weigh two tons at the surface of
    the sun--and who would weigh only a few pounds at the surface of the
    four new planets, and would be so light as to find it impossible to
    stand from the excess of muscular force! I think a very entertaining
    dream might be made of a man's visit to the sun and planets--these
    ideas are all like dreamy feelings when one is a little feverish. I
    forgot to mention (page 58) a passage on the propagation of sound.
    It is a beautiful sentence, as well as a sublime idea, "so that at a
    very small height above the surface of the earth, the noise of the
    tempest ceases and the thunder is heard no more in those boundless
    regions, where the heavenly bodies accomplish their periods in
    eternal and sublime silence."

    Excuse me in my trade of sentence-monger, and believe me, dear
    Mrs. Somerville, truly your obliged and truly your affectionate
    friend,

                                                    MARIA EDGEWORTH.

    I have persuaded your dear curly-headed friend, Harriet, to add her
    own observations; she sends her love to you; and I know you love
    her, otherwise I would not press her to write her own say.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    HAMPSTEAD, February 1st, 1832.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I am now, thank God! recovered from a very heavy disease, but still
    very weak. I will not, however, delay any longer my grateful
    acknowledgments for your very flattering gift of your Preliminary
    Dissertation. Indeed, I feel myself greatly honoured by receiving
    such a mark of regard from one who has done more to remove the light
    estimation in which the capacity of women is too often held, than
    all that has been accomplished by the whole sisterhood of poetical
    damsels and novel-writing authors. I could say much more on this
    subject were I to follow my own feelings; but I am still so weak
    that writing is a trouble to me, and I have nearly done all that I
    am able.

                                   God bless and prosper you!
                                        Yours gratefully and truly,
                                                           J. BAILLIE.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MISS BERRY TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    BELLEVUE, 18th September, 1834.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    I have just finished reading your book, which has entertained me
    extremely, and at the same time, I hope, improved my moral character
    in the Christian virtue of humility. These must appear to you such
    odd results--so little like those produced on the great majority
    of your readers, that you must allow me to explain them to you.
    Humbled, I must be, by finding my own intellect unequal to
    following, beyond a first step, the explanations by which you seek
    to make easy to comprehension the marvellous phenomena of the
    universe--humbled, by feeling the intellectual difference between
    you and me, placing you as much above me in the scale of reasoning
    beings, as I am above my dog. Still I rejoice with humility at
    feeling myself, in that order of understandings which, although
    utterly incapable of following the chain of your reasonings,
    calculations, and inductions--utterly deprived of the powers
    necessary sic itur ad astra--am yet informed, enlightened, and
    entertained with the series of sublime truths to which you conduct
    me.

    In some foggy morning of November, I shall drive out to you at
    Chelsea and surprise you with my ignorance of science, by asking you
    to explain to me some things which you will wonder any one can
    have so long existed without knowing. In the mean time, I wish you
    could read in any combination of the stars the probability of our
    often having such a season as this, of uninterrupted summer since
    April last, and when last week it was sobering into autumn, has now
    returned to enter summer again. The thermometer was at 83° in the
    shade yesterday, and to-day promises to be as much. We are delighted
    with our two months' residence at this place, which we shall see
    with regret draw towards a close the end of this month. October we
    mean to spend at Paris, before we return to the nebulosities of
    London. During my residence in Paris, before we came here, I never
    had the good luck to meet with your friend M. Arago; had I not been
    reading your book, I should have begged you to give me a letter for
    him. But as it is, and as my stay at Paris will now be so short, I
    shall content myself with looking up at a respectful distance to all
    your great fixed stars of science, excepting always yourself, dear
    Mrs. Somerville. No "disturbing influence" will, I hope, ever throw
    me out of the orbit of your intimacy and friendship, whose value,
    believe me, is most duly and accurately calculated by your ignorant
    but very affectionate friend,

                                                            M. BERRY.

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM LORD BROUGHAM TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    1834.

    MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

    Many thanks for the sheets, which I have read with equal pleasure
    and instruction as those I formerly had from you. One or two things
    I could have troubled you with, but they are of little moment. I
    shall note them. The only one that is at all material relates to the
    way you mention Dr. Young--not that I object to the word
    "illustrious," or as applied to him. But as you don't give it to one
    considerably more so, it looks either as if you overrated him, or
    underrated Davy, or (which I suppose to be the truth) as if you
    felt Young had not had his due share of honour, and desired to make
    it up to his memory. Observe I give him a very high place--but
    Davy's discoveries are both of more unquestioned originality and
    more undoubtedly true--perhaps I should say, more brought to a
    close. The alkalis and the principle of the safety lamp are
    concluded and fixed, the undulation is in progress, and somewhat
    uncertain as to how and where it may end. You will please to observe
    that I reckon both those capital discoveries of Davy the fruit of
    inquiry, and not at all of chance--for, as to the lamp, it is plain;
    and as to the metals, if you look at the inquiries that immediately
    preceded, you will see he was thereby led to the alkalis. Indeed, I
    well remember saying, when I read them, "He will analyse lime and
    barytes." I am quite ready to admit his extreme folly in some
    things, but that is nothing to the present purpose.

                                               Yours,
                                                   H.B.
                                           (Henry Brougham.)

       *     *     *     *     *

    FROM MRS. MARCET TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.

    GENEVA, 6th April, 1834.

    DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,

