  "Fine-drawn and fit to the buckle!"
    Was your confident Colonel's pride,
  And the faith of the lads--"Our luck'll
    Come back when the Spring winds ride;"
  And, dropping their quaint oaths drolly,
    They dragged their spurs in the mire,
  Till the Western Front woke slowly
    And they won to their hearts' desire.

  They loose you now to the labours
    That the needs of the hour reveal,
  And you carry the proud old sabres
    To cross with a tarnished steel;
  So, steady--and keep position--
    And stout be your hearts to-day,
  As you shoulder the old tradition
    And charge in the ancient way!

  W.H.O.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE ZOO NOTES.

Raw sugar, Captain BATHURST states, cannot be sold on account of the presence of the sugar
louse. It is thought that Mr. POCOCK, who has so successfully brought the Zoo's rations into
conformity with war conditions, might probably persuade the animal to live on hemp seed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Changes in the Zoo's dietary," says Mr. POCOCK, "were effected without difficulty." The rumour
that the hippopotamus demanded a pailful of jam with its mangel-wurzels, in the belief that
they were some kind of homoeopathic pill, appears to have been baseless.

       *       *       *       *       *

In order to assist the many fine specimens of moth in the Insect House, it is reported that
several actor-managers owning fur coats have offered them a good home.

       *       *       *       *       *

The birds of paradise are no longer fed on beetroot. Since the all-red root has been denied
them they protest against being called birds of paradise, and wish to be known simply as "birds."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITEHALL WHISPERINGS.

(With apologies to the seers of the Sunday papers.)

A great port was swathed in bunting last week. I was there, but I must not say what caused
this outburst of enthusiasm. But even the Censor can scarcely forbid my hinting that it was
connected with a naval success of peculiar brilliance which must be suppressed because we wish
to keep the Bosches guessing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who was in Switzerland when he was regularly reported as being in attendance at War Council
meetings? Who was actually supposed to have addressed a public meeting in England when in reality
he was hundreds of miles away? I make no statement; I merely write the word "Austria." To those
who understand it will be enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Have you noticed that for some weeks we have had no news from the Port of Danzig? I draw no
deduction, but do not be surprised to hear in a few weeks that the Port of Danzig has ceased
to exist.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is grave trouble at Scotland Yard. A Hun Colonel captured at Arras was found to have
in his pocket a receipted bill from a London hotel of the previous week's date. It would surprise
you very much if I told you at which hotel "Mr. Perkins" stayed and what guests he entertained
there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why did the Liberian envoy call at the Foreign Office six times last week? His explanation,
offered to an inquiring Pressman, that he had lost an umbrella, was naive, to say the least.
I must not betray what I know, but I may hint that KING FERDINAND of Bulgaria is famous for
the devious ways in which he carries on negotiations.

       *       *       *       *       *

A neutral diplomatist of considerable importance has never taken a holiday since the War began,
and has always told his friends that he will never leave his post till peace comes. On an afternoon
this week he was seen with beaming face buying a travelling rug and two portable trunks at
one of London's largest emporia. I wonder--yes, I wonder.

       *       *       *       *       *

[The Editor. You are not very spicy this week.

The Contributor. Nor would you be if you had been confined to the house at Peckham Rye with
influenza. Better work next week. I have an appointment to lunch with a member of the National
Liberal Club and shall get right to the heart of things.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from Army Orders at the Front:--

    "A C. of E. Chaplain will shortly join the Heavy Artillery.
    Please make arrangements for him to be accommodated in the ----
    Heavy Battery Horse Lines."

The nearest thing that could be got, we suppose, to a Canon's stall.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "As approved up to date, the bread ticket will comprise four
    squares, each entitling the holder to purchase two ounces of
    bread; or, by presenting the whole ticket, two quartern loaves
    of 4 lb. each."--Birmingham Daily Mail.

Mr. Punch, though yielding in patriotism to no one, has already decided to present the whole
ticket.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a letter by "Retired Diplomat" on "Maize Bread":--

    "To obtain this result the hard yellow husk must be separated
    from the soft white core, as does the parrot, and the latter
    alone retained for baking purposes."--Evening Paper.

As in these days no means of increasing the supply of food-stuffs should be neglected, we have
much pleasure in passing on "Retired Diplomat's" suggestion to the authorities of the Zoo.
Personally we prefer Cockatoo en casserole.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, April 30th.--After this week Newmarket will be "a blasted heath," for all horse-racing
is to be stopped. Irish Members could hardly believe the dreadful news. What are the hundred
thousand young men who refuse to for their country to do with their spare time?

Scotch Members, on the contrary, were rather pleased. Mr. DUNCAN MILLAR, whose desire to deprive
his countrymen of their national beverage is only equalled by his zeal on behalf of their national
food, rejoiced in the prospect that fewer oats for high-mettled racers would mean more "parritch"
for humble constituents.

There never was a dockyard Member who more faithfully fulfilled the House of Commons' conception
of the type than Sir CLEMENT KINLOCH-COOKE. In a comparatively short Parliamentary career he
must have already cost the country a pretty penny in extra pay and pensions to the "mateys"
and "matlows" of Devonport. Latterly he has given the Admiralty a rest and has devoted himself
to strafing the Home Office for its alleged tenderness to the Conscientious Objectors lodged
at Princetown--a race of sturdy beggars, according to his account, who live like fighting-cocks,
do next to no work, get leave periodically to air their eloquence at pacifist meetings, and,
worst of all, invade his constituency in their leisure hours. Mr. SHIRLEY BENN, who represents
the neighbouring borough of Plymouth, supported this indictment, and added the amazing detail
that one of the Princetown pacifists was an ex-pugilist.

Invited to select from the 670 members of the House the two men least likely to engage in personal
violence I should have thought myself safe in choosing Sir GEORGE GREENWOOD and Mr. JOSEPH
KING. The former is so devoted to animals that he would not turn upon a worm; the thought of
bloodshed so shocks the latter that he welcomes any suggestion of peace however illusory. But,
when Mr. KING described a proposal of Sir GEORGE'S as "infected with Prussianism," that gallant
knight promptly invited him to repeat his language outside the House; and Mr. KING, nothing
daunted, declared his readiness "to meet the hon. Member where he likes and with whatever weapons
he likes." If the meeting had come off it is believed that Blue Books at forty yards would
have been the choice; but, happily, peace was soon afterwards restored.

Tuesday, May 1st.--Some of our super-patriots have no luck. Mr. JOYNSON-HICKS, having discovered
that the British Vice-Consul at Riga was a gentleman with the suspicious name of WISKEMANN,
thought that he had got hold of a sure thing--not the whole Hidden Hand, perhaps, but certainly
one of the phalanges. And then down came Lord ROBERT CECIL with the information that the gentleman
in question was not only British-born but was a product of Wellington and Cambridge, and a
public servant in whom the Foreign Office had the utmost confidence. "Foiled again," muttered
HICKS to JOYNSON, "but a time will come!"

Like the retired soap-boiler who always looked in on melting-days Lord HARCOURT could not resist
the attraction of the Office of Works' Vote. He never displayed his ability more signally than
in the rapidity and ease with which he used as First Commissioner to get his Estimates through
the House. It was a treat to hear him poking fun at the bores, demolishing the captious and
humouring the serious critics of his administration. His present successor goes about his business
in a more stolid way. In his hands the rapier has become a ploughshare. At first the few Members
who stayed to listen found him Le Mond qui nous ennuie, but he woke them up later with the
startling announcement that he can, if he likes, with a stroke of the pen remove the ladies'
grille, and admit the fair visitors to a full view of the House, and, what is more important,
admit the House to a full view of the fair visitors. For the moment, I gather, he means to
hold his hand, pending full consideration of all the changes that such a revolution may involve.
Besides, the SPEAKER may have to be consulted, although up to the present he has exhibited
no desire to rush in where angels--bless them!--love to tread.

Wednesday, May 2nd.--Curiosity to hear Mr. BONAR LAW'S first Budget-speech caused a full House.
The Peers attended in force, and among the distinguished strangers was "Dr. JIM," a man of
action who, as a rule, takes little interest in the men of talk.

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER'S Budget statement was praised by his predecessor for its ability
and lucidity. Personally, I thought rapidity was its most notable characteristic. Unhampered
by manuscript (save a couple of sheets of notepaper containing a few of the principal figures)
and relying upon his exceptional memory, he rattled through his thousand-million totals at
such a pace that my panting pencil toiled after him in vain. In seventy-five minutes by the
clock he spoke four solid columns of The Times.

As we have failed to drink ourselves out of our difficulties, for the Excise returns show a
steady falling off, we are to do our bit towards smoking ourselves out of them by paying 1s.
10d. a pound more on our tobacco. This last impost constitutes a real piece of self-denial
on the CHANCELLOR'S part, for he is much addicted to cigars both long and strong, somewhat
resembling those which enabled Mr. W.J. TRAVIS to carry off the Amateur Golf Championship to
America.

Thursday, May 3rd.--The secrets of the Budget were so well kept that Mr. LAW himself forgot
the most important of them until to-day. In future it will be a case of "one man (or woman)
one dog," unless the owner is prepared to pay on an ascending scale for his extra pets. In
our fight with Germany we must neglect no precaution however small. To get the KAISER back
to his kennel we will, if necessary, empty our own. Doggedness is essential to victory, but
not over-doggedness. Then let us, in CALVERLEY'S phrase, "curtail the already cur-tailed cur."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A MINISTERIAL WAIL.

    ["The most trenchant critics of the Government since its
    formation have been Mr. PRINGLE and Mr. HOGGE."--British
    Weekly].

  The gipsy camping in a dingle
    I reckon as a lucky dog;
  He doesn't hear the voice of PRINGLE,
    He doesn't hear the snorts of HOGGE.

  The moujik crouching in his ingle
    Somewhere near Tomsk or Taganrog
  I envy; he is far from PRINGLE
    And equally remote from HOGGE.

  I find them deadly when they're single,
    But deadlier in the duologue,
  When the insufferable PRINGLE
    Backs the intolerable HOGGE.

  I'd rather walk for miles on shingle
    Or flounder knee-deep in a bog
  Than listen to a speech from PRINGLE
    Or hearken to the howls of HOGGE.

  Their tyrannous exactions mingle
    The vices of Kings Stork and Log;
  One day I give the palm to PRINGLE,
    The next I offer it to HOGGE.

  The style of Mr. Alfred Jingle
    Was jumpy, but he did not clog
  His sense with woolly words, like PRINGLE,
    With priggish petulance, like HOGGE.

  I'd love to see the Bing Boys bingle,
    To go to music-halls incog.,
  Instead of being posed by PRINGLE
    And heckled by the hateful HOGGE.

  My appetite is gone; I "pingle"
    (As Norfolk puts it) with my prog;
  My meals are marred by thoughts of PRINGLE,
    My sleep is massacred by HOGGE.

  O patriots, with your nerves a-tingle,
    With all your righteous souls agog,
  Will none of you demolish PRINGLE
    And utterly extinguish HOGGE?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

IN the long long-ago, Frobisher and I, assisted by a handful of native troopers, kept the flag
flying at M'Vini.

We hoisted it to the top of a tree at sun-up, where it remained, languidly flapping its tatters
over leagues of Central African bush till sun-set, when we hauled it down again--an arduous
life. After we had been at M'Vini about six months, had shot everything worth shooting, and
knew one another's funny stories off by heart, Frobisher and I grew bored with each other,
hated in fact the sight, sound and mere propinquity of each other, and, shutting ourselves
up in our separate huts, communicated only on occasions of the direct necessity, and then by
the curtest of official notes. Thus a further three months dragged on.

Then one red-hot afternoon came Frobisher's boy to my wattle-and-dab, bearing a note.

"Visitor approaching from S.W. got up like a May-Queen; think it must be the KAISER. Lend me
a bottle of whisky and mount guard--must impress the blighter."

I attached my last bottle of Scotch to the messenger and sallied forth to mount a guard, none
too easy a job, as the Army had gone to celebrate somebody's birthday in the neighbouring village.
However, I discovered one remaining trooper lying in the shade of a loquat-tree. He was sick--dying,
he assured me; but I persuaded him to postpone his demise for at least half-an-hour, requisitioned
his physician (the local witch doctor) and two camp followers, and, leaving my cook-boy to
valet them, dashed to my hut to make my own toilet. A glimpse through the cane mats five minutes
later showed me that our visitors had arrived.

A fruity German officer in full gala rig (white gloves and all) was cruising about on mule-back
before our camp, trying to discover whether it was inhabited or not. We let him cruise for
a quarter of an hour without taking any steps to enlighten him. Then, at a given signal, Frobisher,
caparisoned in every fal-lal he could collect, issued from his hut, and I turned out the improvised
guard. A stirring spectacle; and it had the desired effect, for the German afterwards admitted
to being deeply impressed, especially by the local wizard, who paraded in his professional
regalia, and, coming to cross-purposes with his rifle, bayoneted himself and wept bitterly.
The ceremonies over and the casualty removed we adjourned to Frobisher's kya, broached the
whisky and sat about in solemn state, stiff with accoutrements, sodden with perspiration. Our
visitor kept the Red, White and Black flying on a tree over the border, he explained; this
was his annual ceremonial call. He sighed and brushed the sweat from his nose with the tips
of a white glove--"the weather was warm, nicht wahr?" I admitted that we dabbled in flag-flying
ourselves and that the weather was all he claimed for it (which effort cost me about four pounds
in weight). Tongues lolling, flanks heaving, we discussed the hut-tax, the melon crop, the
monkey-nut market, the nigger--and the weather again.

Suddenly Frobisher sprang up, cast loose the shackles of his Sam Browne, hurled it into a corner,
and began tearing at his tunic hooks. I stared at him in amazement--such manners before visitors.
But our immaculate guest leapt to his feet with a roar like a freed lion, and, stripping his
white gloves, flung them after the Sam Browne, whereupon a fury of undressing came upon us.
Helmets, belts, tunics, shirts were piled into the corner, until at length we stood in our
underclothes, laughing and unashamed. After that we got on famously, that Teuton and we, and
three days later, when he swarmed aboard his mule and left home (in pyjamas this time) it was
with real regret we waved him farewell.

But not for long. Within a month we were surprised by a hail from the bush, and there was Otto,
mule, pyjamas and all.

"Ullo, 'ullo, 'ullo!" he carolled. "'Ere gomes ze Sherman invasion! Durn out ze guard!" He
roared with laughter, fell off his palfrey and bawled for his batman, who ambled up balancing
a square box on his woolly pate.

His mother in Munich had sent him a case of Lion Brew, Otto explained, so he had brought it along.

We wassailed deep into that night and out the other side, and we liked our Otto more than ever.
We had plenty in common, the same loneliness, fevers, climate, and niggers to wrestle with;
moreover he had been in England, and liked it; he smoked a pipe; he washed. Also, as he privily
confided to us in the young hours of one morning, he had his doubts as to the divinity of the
KAISER, and was not quite convinced that RICHARD STRAUSS had composed the music of the spheres.

He was a bad Hun (which probably accounted for his presence at the uttermost, hottermost edge
of the ALL-HIGHEST'S dominions), but a good fellow. Anyhow, we liked him, Frobisher and I;
liked his bull-mouthed laughter, his drinking songs and full-blooded anecdotes, and, on the
occasions of his frequent visits, put our boredom from us, pretended to be on the most affectionate
terms, and even laughed uproariously at each other's funny stories. Up at M'Vini, in the long
long-ago, the gleam of pyjamas amongst the loquats, and "'Ere gomes ze Sherman invasion!" booming
through the bush, became a signal for general good-will.

In the fulness of time Otto went home on leave, and, shortly afterwards, the world blew up.

And now I have met him again, a sodden, muddy, bloody, shrunken, saddened Otto, limping through
a snowstorm in the custody of a Canadian Corporal. He was the survivor of a rear-guard, the
Canuck explained, and had "scrapped like a bag of wild-cats" until knocked out by a rifle butt.
As for Otto himself, he hadn't much to say; he looked old, cold, sick and infinitely disgusted.
He had always been a poor Hun.

Only once did he show a gleam of his ancient form of those old hot, happy, pyjama days on the
Equator.

A rabble of prisoners--Jägers, Grenadiers, Uhlans, what-nots--came trudging down the road,
an unshorn, dishevelled herd of cut-throats, propelled by a brace of diminutive kilties, who
paused occasionally to treat them to snatches of flings and to hoot triumphantly.

Otto regarded his fallen compatriots with disgusted lack-lustre eyes, then turning to me with
a ghost of his old smile, "'Ere gomes ze Sherman invasion," said he.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAUTIONARY TALES FOR THE ARMY.

II.

(Second-Lieutenant Humphrey Spence, who was slightly wounded through a lack of a proper sense
of the rights of rank.)

  Second-Lieutenant Humphrey Spence
  Had no idea of precedence;
  To him his Colonel was no more
  Than any other messroom bore;
  And he would try to make a pal
  Not merely of a General,
  But even a horrified non-com
  He'd  greet with "Tiddly-om-pom-pom!"
  Although in other ways quite nice,
  He was perverted by this vice.
  For instance, once he had to tea
  A private in the A.S.C.,
  And asked to meet him Cathcart-Crewe,
  A Major in the Horse Guards Blue.
  Too frequently did it occur
  That, when a senior officer
  Was with him, he would up and take
  Salutes from privates. Why, he'd shake
  Even Sir DOUGLAS by the hand
  And say, "Old chap, you're doing grand."

  This sort of thing caused some distress
  Among the members of his mess.
  He often took the Colonel's chair;
  He often flourished in the air
  His water-glass (when wine was scanty),
  And shouted, "Cheero, Adjutanty!"
  You see, he simply had no sense
  Of military precedence.

  His regiment went out to France
  To help a general advance.
  Now in a minute they must hop
  Like billy-o across the top.
  Amid the din the Colonel said,
  "It will be hellish overhead.
  Machine-guns will let loose a jet
  Of bullets on the parapet;
  We'll meet a burst of rifle fire,
  And, as for shells, I don't desire
  To see in so confined a space
  A thicker lot than we shall face.
  Now, gentlemen, attend, I pray--
  When we attack, I lead the way!"

  Now wouldn't anyone concur,
  Saying at once, "With pleasure, Sir!"
  Nor with undisciplined delight
  Baulk the good Colonel of his right?
  Not so young Spence. The moment came,
  And, heedless of the cries of "Shame!"
  He never offered once to wait
  Until the Colonel, more sedate,
  Had scrambled o'er the parapet,
  But got there first--and promptly met
  A bullet.... Folk who arrogate
  The privileges of the great
  Must take what ills thereto attach
  (The Colonel never got a scratch).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"KAMERAD!"

"Baby Girl, 18 months, will surrender entirely to good home."--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Archdeacon of Stow thought it was a good maxim not to
    argue with the huntsmen while shooting the rabbits, and moved
    the previous question."--Morning Post.

If you want a real argument with a huntsman (of the ante-bellum type) you should try shooting
a fox.

       *       *       *       *       *

Consecutive paragraphs from The Continental Daily Mail:--

    "Mr. Arthur J. Balfour, like President Wilson, is an ardent
    golfer. He has challenged Mr. Wilson to a match, and the
    President of the United States immediately took him up. The
    match will be played in a few days.

    "'Every able-bodied man and woman found golfing at the present
    time should be taken by the scruff of the neck and made to
    do some work of national importance,' said Mr. Waldie at the
    Edinburgh Parish Council."

So that's that.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCHOOL.

During the past week there has taken place, almost without our knowledge, a great migration
of boys. From their homes, out on to the roads and railways, has been pouring a flood of big
boys, middle-sized boys, small boys, old boys, new boys, all tending towards the various schools
where they are supposed to make all the best parts of human knowledge their own and to live
a life of dignified abstraction from the troubles of the world, in the midst of their own argot
and their own special traditions.

Of the big boys and the middle-sized boys I have little to say. They are already imbued, if
one may say so, with the influence of their school, and can hold their own with the masters
and their fellow-boys. Much as they enjoy their holidays, they show no undue reluctance to
take up again the burden of their studies at a place which they will afterwards consider as
having given them some of the happiest days of their lives. Many of them indeed are already
or are in process of becoming the trusted coadjutors of the headmaster and his colleagues in
the work of maintaining good order and discipline in the school. They are monitors--tremendous
word!--or prefects or præpostors, and their mitis sapientia, no less than their muscular strength,
causes them to be feared and venerated.

Of such awful beings one must not speak lightly lest some terrific fate reserved for scoffers
overtake one. No, my concern at present is rather with the little boys who have gone up for
the first time to their preparatory school, those forlorn scraps of humanity who are beginning
a life entirely new to them in all its details. Hitherto, except for visits to the seaside
with their parents and family, they have not spent a night away from home. Now they are separated
from their parents and plunged into a world of perfect strangers. Everything is done to make
them at ease and comfortable in their new surroundings; the headmaster is kindness itself,
the matron beams on them with smiles and fortifies them with encouragement; but just at first
the wrench for the little fellows is great. In a day or two, however, they will begin to acclimatise
themselves; the strangeness will begin to wear off; and having borne up bravely against their
first sense of loneliness in the midst of a crowd they will gradually become parts of the machine
to the making of which many gentle and sympathising hands for years past have contributed.

"Schools are not what they were," says one of my friends. "There is no bullying nowadays and
little roughness of any kind. Masters are not looked upon as the natural enemies of boys. Corporal
punishment, except for the gravest offences, is abolished. Whereas, formerly, little boys were
at once sucked into the vortex of a Public School, there are now Preparatory Schools, where
Tommie and Dickie and Harry, aged from nine to ten, learn the business of Public Schooling
in a manner suited to their age and capacity. When we were boys," he continues, "these admirable
buffer states were so few that they might almost be said not to exist at all; they now flourish
everywhere. The path of the little boy is thus made easier for him."

"But," I said, "is a little boy, then, never brought to a sense of his unimportance by being
physically, if not morally, kicked? Is he to pass his life in a condition of Sybaritic softness?"

"You need not," he said, "worry about that. Softness makes no appeal to the average English boy."

When therefore, on a day in last week, it happened to me to take a little boy I happen to know
to his Preparatory School on his first day of his first term there, I did so with no undue
depression. "Be a good boy," I said to him; "never tell a lie, never push yourself forward,
and don't swank about yourself." It was good advice so far as it went, but it did not make
any great impression on him, for he only answered, "Of course," or "Of course I shan't," to
every item that I put before him. I wonder how many fathers have recently inculcated these
and similar high-toned principles on their little boys, only to meet with the same uninterested
acquiescence. And even our parting was not so dejected as it might have been, for by that time
another new boy had come upon the scene, and he and mine had been irresistibly drawn to one
another, and were chatting gaily when it was time for me to go.

       *       *       *       *       *

