A momentary pity for his wife, brought to this harsh Cumbrian spot, from the flowers and sun,
the Bacchic laughter and colour of a Tuscan vintage, shot through Melrose. But his will silenced
it. "She will get used to it," he said to himself again, with dry determination. Then he turned
on his heel. The untidiness of his wife's room, her lack of method and charm, and the memory
of her peevishness on the journey disgusted him. There was a bed in his dressing-room; and
he was soon soundly asleep there.

But his wife was not asleep, and she had been well aware of his presence on her threshold.
While he stood there, she had held her breath, "willing" him to go away again; possessed by
a silent passion of rage and repulsion. When he closed the door behind him, she lay wide awake,
trembling at all the night sounds in the house, lost in a thousand terrors and wild regrets.

Suddenly, with a crash the casement window at the farther end of the room burst open under
an onset of wind, Netta only just stifled the scream on her lips. She sat up, her teeth chattering.
It was awful; but she must get up and shut it. Shivering, she crept out of bed, threw a shawl
round her, and made one flight across the floor, possessed with a mad alarm lest the candle,
which was flickering in the draught, should go out, and leave her in darkness.

But now that the window was open she saw, as she approached, that the night was not dark. There
was a strong moonlight outside, and when she reached the window she drew in her breath. For
there, close upon her, as it seemed, like one of her own Apennines risen and stalking through
the night, towered a great mountain, cloud-wreathed, and gashed with vast ravines. The moon
was shining on it between two chasing clouds, and the light and shade of the great spectacle,
its illumined slopes, and impenetrable abysses, were at once magnificent and terrible.

Netta shut the window with groping, desperate hands, and rushed back to bed. Never had she
felt so desolate, so cut off from all that once made her poor little life worth living. Yet,
though she cried for a few minutes in sheer self-pity, it was not long before she too was asleep.

II

The day after the Melroses' arrival at the Tower was once more a day of rain--not now the tempestuous
storm rain which had lashed the mill stream to fury, and blustered round the house as they
stepped into it, but one of those steady, gray, and featureless downpours that Westmoreland
and Cumbria know so well. The nearer mountains which were wholly blotted out, and of the far
Helvellyn range and the Derwentwater hills not a trace emerged. All colour had gone from the
grass and the autumn trees; a few sheep and a solitary pony in the fields near the house stood
forlorn and patient under the deluge; heaven and earth met in one fusion of rain just beyond
the neglected garden that filled the front court; while on three sides of the house, and penetrating
through every nook and corner of it, there rose, from depths far below, the roar of the stream
which circled the sandstone rock whereon the Tower was built.

Mrs. Melrose came down late. She descended the stairs slowly, rubbing her cold hands together,
and looking forlornly about her. She wore a dress of some straw-coloured stuff, too thin for
the climate of a Cumbria autumn, and round her singularly small and fleshless neck, a wisp
of black velvet. The top of the head was rather flat, and the heavy dark hair, projecting stiffly
on either side of the face, emphasized at once the sharpness of the little bony chin, the general
sallowness of complexion, and the remarkable size and blackness of the eyes. There was something
snakelike about the flat head, and the thin triangular face; an effect which certainly belied
the little lady, for there was nothing malicious or sinister in her personality.

She had not yet set eyes on her husband, who had risen early, and could now be heard giving
directions to some one in the library to her right--a carpenter apparently, since there was
hammering going on. She supposed she must find out something about the kitchen and the servants.
Anastasia had brought up her breakfast that morning, with a flushed face, muttering complaint
against the woman downstairs. A terror struck through her. If Anastasia should desert her--should
give notice!

Timidly she pushed open the door of the big kitchen, and prepared to play the mistress. Mrs.
Dixon was standing at the kitchen table with a pastry-board before her, making a meat pie.
She greeted her new mistress civilly, though guardedly, and went on with what she was doing.

"Are you going to cook for us?" asked Mrs. Melrose, helplessly.

"That's what I unnerstood fro' Muster Tyson, ma'am."

"Then I came to speak to you about dinner."

"Thank you, ma'am, but Muster Melrose gave me the orders a good while sen. There was a cart
goin' into Pengarth."

Pengarth was the nearest country town, some eight miles away.

Mrs. Melrose coloured.

"I must tell you what the baby requires," she said, drawing herself up.

Mrs. Dixon looked at the speaker impassively, over her spectacles.

Mrs. Melrose hurriedly named a patent food--some special biscuits--bananas.

"Yo' can have the milk yo' want fro' t' farm," said Mrs. Dixon slowly, in reply; "but there's
nowt of aw them things i' t' house as I knows on."

"Then we must send for them."

Mrs. Dixon shook her head.

"There won't be anoother cart goin' in till t' day after to-morrow."

"I can't have the baby neglected!" exclaimed Mrs. Melrose, with sudden shrillness, looking
angrily at the rugged face and figure before her.

"Mebbe yo'd go an talk to t' master?" suggested Mrs. Dixon, not without, as it seemed to Netta,
a touch of slyness in eyes and voice. Of course they all knew by now that she was a cipher--that
she was not to count. Edmund had been giving all the orders--in his miserly cheese-paring way.
No comforts!--no conveniences!--not even bare necessaries, for herself and the child. Yet she
knew very well that her husband was a rich man.

She turned and went in search of him, making her way with difficulty through the piles of boxes.
What could be in them all? Edmund must have been buying for years. Every now and then as she
stooped to look at the labels pasted upon them, she caught names well known to her. Orbatelli,
Via dei Bardi 13, Firenze; Bianchi, Via Mazzini 12, Lucca; Fratelli Masai, Via Manzoni, Pisa.
And everywhere the recurrent word--Antichità.

