Mr. Knight, president of the Horticultural Society, has found that by keeping the ground in
which celery was planted, constantly wet, it grew by the middle of September to the height
of five feet, and its quality was in proportion to its size. Mr. K. also recommends planting
at greater distances than is usually the case, and covering the beds, into which the young
seedlings are first removed, with half-rotten dung, overspread to the depth of about two inches
with mould; under which circumstances, whenever the plants are removed, the dung will adhere
tenaciously to their roots, and it will not be necessary to deprive the plants of any part
of their leaves.--Mr. Wedgewood also states, that good celery may be readily obtained by transplanting
seedling plants that have remained in the seed bed, till they had acquired a considerable size.--Quarterly
Journal.

Dwarfs.

Richard Gibson, the dwarf, married Anne Shepherd, another dwarf. Each of them was only 3 feet
10 inches high. They had nine children, of whom five lived to maturity, and were of a proper
size. Richard, the father, lived to the age of 75, his little widow to that of 89. It is presumptive,
that the dwarf size is only occasioned by some obstruction during utero--gestation. The full
size of the children proves that nature does not perpetuate abortions.

Cruelty and Epicurism.

A sharp axe, on the principle of a punch, is used in slaughtering bullocks, not to kill them
at once, but to cut a circular hole in the skull, into which a stick is introduced to stir
up the brains, for the purpose of making the meat more tender! The throat is not attempted
to be cut till after the infliction of this torture, horrible even to think of, which instantly
causes the most convulsive agonies, such as are never seen in death of any other kind.

Lord Somerville's mode of pithing animals, brought forward with the most humane views, is a
horrible operation. The body is deprived of sensation, while the living head rolls its eye
in agony on its tormentors.--Sir Everard Home.

       *       *       *       *       *

USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPLES.

The preservation of apples is now brought to great perfection, by keeping them in jars secure
from the action of air; but there is one method of preparing them for culinary purposes which
is not practised in this country. Any good baking sort, which is liable to rot, if peeled and
cut into slices about the thickness of one-sixth of an inch, and dried in the sun, or in a
slow oven, till sufficiently desiccated, may be afterwards kept in boxes in a dry place for
a considerable time, and only require to be soaked in water for an hour or two before using.

At a recent meeting of the Horticultural Society, a large collection of the best late varieties
of the apple, as grown in America, were exhibited. It was a remarkable circumstance, that,
while these fruits are unusually handsome, none of them, except the New-town pippin, were,
although sweet and pleasant, comparable to our fine European apples; and yet the New-town pippin,
the only good variety, is as much superior to any variety of apple known in Europe as the others
were inferior.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLACK DYE AND INK.

The following is a process for the preparation of a black dye, for which a patent was taken
out at Vienna by M. Honig:--Logwood is to be boiled several times in water, and a little sub-carbonate
of potash to be added to the decoctions, the quantity being so moderated that it shall not
change the colour to blue; the stuff to be dyed is then to be plunged into this bath. This
stuff may be either animal or vegetable. When it is well impregnated with colouring matter,
it is to be withdrawn, and, without being exposed to air, is to be introduced into a solution
of green-vitriol, and left there until it has obtained the desired black hue. In preparing
the ink, the decoction of logwood is used in place of the infusion of galls.

       *       *       *       *       *

MALT LIQUORS.

By a Physician.

I am much disposed to extol the virtues of malt liquors. When properly fermented, well hopped,
and of a moderate strength, they are refreshing, wholesome, and nourishing. It is a common
observation, that those who drink sound malt liquors are stronger than those who drink wine;
and to those who are trained to boxing, and other athletic exercises, old home-brewed beer
is particularly recommended, drawn from the cask, and not bottled. Hence Jackson, the celebrated
trainer, affirms, if any person accustomed to drink wine would but try malt liquor for a month,
he would find himself so much the better for it, that he would soon take to the one, and abandon
the other. Some suppose the superior bottom of the British soldiery to be owing, in a great
measure, to their use of malt liquor.

  "Your wine-tippling, dram-sipping fellows retreat,
  But your beer-drinking Britons can never be beat."

  DR. ARNE.

Good home-brewed beer has been styled by some vinum Britannicum, and by others liquid bread.
There can be no doubt of its highly nutritive and wholesome qualities, and it is much to be
regretted, that so few families in this kingdom now ever brew their own beer, but are content
to put up with the half-fermented, adulterated wash found in public-houses, or with the no
less adulterated and impure drink called porter.

Malt liquors are divided into small beer, strong beer, ale, and porter. Small beer is best
calculated for common use, being less heating and stimulating than other malt liquors. When
used soft and mild, after having been thoroughly fermented and purified, it forms an excellent
diluent with food, more especially at dinner. Sydenham was in the habit of using it in this
manner, both at dinner and supper, and he justly considered its being well hopped a great advantage.
In general it is, without doubt, the best drink which can be taken at dinner, by persons in
the middle and higher ranks of society, who are in the habit of drinking wine after that meal.
As it abounds with carbonic acid gas, or fixed air, it is the most useful diluent for labourers,
because it cools the body, abates thirst, and, at the same time, stimulates very moderately
the animal powers. Small beer, when stale and hard, is unwholesome to all persons.

Sound strong beer is very nutritious and wholesome; indeed, it is generally considered more
nourishing than wine. It is a most useful drink to the weak, the lean, and the laborious, provided
they are not very subject to flatulency, nor troubled with disorders of the breast. If taken
in moderate quantity, and of the best quality, it will often be found of great service to the
invalid, in assisting to restore his strength, spirits, and flesh. It should be drunk from
the cask; bottled beer being more likely to disagree with the stomach, and to produce flatulency.

There is a general prejudice against beer in the case of the bilious and the sedentary, but
it appears to me without sufficient foundation. Bilious people are such as have weak stomachs
and impaired digestion, and those who are sedentary are nearly, in these respects, always in
a similar state. Now, I have not observed that beer tends to weaken such stomachs, or to become
ascescent, or otherwise to disagree with them; on the contrary, I believe, it will be found,
in the majority of cases, that this beverage agrees much better than wine, since it is far
less disposed to acescency, and better fitted to act as a stomachic, and, therefore, to invigorate
both the digestive organs, and the constitution at large. That it is very far superior for
such persons to diluted spirit, in any form, I am fully persuaded. Of course, I here speak
of sound home-brewed strong beer, and of a moderate strength. No man can answer for the effects
of the stuff usually sold as beer; and we know strong ale is always difficult of digestion.

Strong ale is, undoubtedly, the most nutritive of all malt liquors, but being digested with
greater difficulty than the other sorts, it cannot with propriety be taken but by those who
are strong, and who use much active exercise. The best ale is made from fine pale malt, and
with hops of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, but the smaller the bubbles
the better. I ought to add, that in some cases of general weakness, where the individual is
certainly recovering, and is possessed of a good measure of strength of stomach, a little of
the finest ale daily will be found highly restorative.

Porter, when good, is not an unwholesome drink; but it is very difficult to procure it of the
best quality. I cannot recommend it to those who are desirous of preserving their health.--Sure
Methods of Improving Health, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAMBO'S SERMON,

(From the New York Statesman.)

"Strate is de rode an narrer is de paff which leadeff to glory."--"Brederen believers!--You
semble dis nite to har de word, and hab it splained and monstrated to you; yes, an I ten for
splain it clear as de lite ob de libin day. We're all wicked sinners har below--it's fac, my
brederen, and I tell you how it cum. You see, my frens,

  "Adam was de fus man,
  Ebe was de todder,
  Cane was a wicked man,
  Kase he kill he brodder.

"Adam and Ebe were bofe black men, and so was Cane and Able. Now I spose it seem to strike
you a understandin how de fus wite man cum. Why I let you no. Den you see when Cane kill de
brodder de Massa cum, and he say, 'Cane whar you a brodder Able?' Cane say, 'I don't know,
Massa.' He cum gin an say, 'Cane whar you a brodder Able?' Cane say, 'I don't know, Massa;'
but de nigger noe'd all de time. Massa now git mad--cum gin--peak mity sharp dis time,--'Cane
whar your brodder Able, you nigger?' Cane now git friten, and he turn wite: and dis is de way
de fus wite man cum pon dis arth! an if it had not been for dat dare nigger, Cane, we'd neba
been troubled wid dese sassy wites pon de face ob dis circumlar globe. Now sing de forty lebenth
hym, ticular meter."

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAM (FROM THE ITALIAN)

On a Father who would not allow his Son to marry until he had arrived at years of discretion.

  Poor Strephon is young, and lacks wisdom 'tis said,
  And therefore still longer must tarry;
  If he waits tho', methinks, till he's sense in his head,
  I'll be sworn that he never will marry.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REV. MR. WATERHOUSE.

The following is the inscription on a stone designed to perpetuate the memory of the late singular
and unfortunate rector of Little Stukely, and is now exhibited in the mason's yard at Huntingdon.
According to immemorial usage a copy of verses is appended to the inscription, which, in point
of style, taste, and orthography, are on a par with the "uncouth rhymes" alluded to by Gray.
The poetry is said to be the production of a Cambridge graduate.

"Sacred to the memory of the Rev, Joshua Waterhouse, B.D., nearly forty years Fellow of Catherine
Hall, Cambridge, Chaplain to his Majesty, Rector of this parish, and of Coton, near Cambridge,
who was inhumanly murdered in this Parsonage House, about ten o'clock on the morning of July
3rd, 1827. Aged eighty-one.

  Beneath this tomb his mangled body's laid,
  Cut, stabb'd, and murdered by Joshua Slade;
  His ghastly wounds a horrid sight to see,
  And hurl'd at once into eternity.

  What faults you've seen in him take care to shun,
  And look at home, enough there's to be done;
  Death does not always warning give,
  Therefore be careful how you live."

       *       *       *       *       *

MAN.

Philosophers have puzzled themselves how to define man, so as to distinguish him from other
animals. Burke says, "Man is an animal that cooks its victuals." "Then," says Johnson, "the
proverb is just, 'there is reason in roasting eggs.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

LANGUAGES.

A French professor of languages, in what he calls an Ethnographic Atlas of the Globe, states
there are 860 languages, and about 5,000 dialects, all which may be classed; in addition to
as many more which are not so arranged. In the present state of our knowledge, therefore, the
Asiatic languages amount to 153; the European to 53; the African to 114; the Polynesian to
117; and the American to 423.

       *       *       *       *       *

Epitaph in the Church-yard of Iselton Cum Fenby, in Lincolnshire.

  Here lies the bodie of old Will Loveland,
  He's put to bed at length with a shovel, and
  Eas'd of expenses for raiment and food,
  Which all his life tyme he would fain have eseyewed:
  He grudg'd his housekeeping--his children's support,
  And laid in his meates of the cagge mag sorte,
  No fyshe or fowle touch'd he, when 'twas dearly bought,
  But a green taile or herrings, a score for a groate.
      No friend to the needy,
      His wealth gather'd speedy,
    And he never did naught but evil;
      He liv'd like a hogg,
      And dyed like a dogg,
    And now he rides post to the devil.

       *       *       *       *       *

LENDING BOOKS.

Doctor Gerhard, of Jena, used to write in his books a Latin inscription, thus translated:--"I
belong to Gerhard's library; take care neither to soil nor tear me; neither keep me in your
possession out of the library more than one month. Do not steal me."

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE PUBLIC.

With the present Number of the Mirror is published a SUPPLEMENTARY SHEET, half of which is
occupied by THREE ENGRAVINGS, viz. an authorized Ground Plan of St. JAMES'S and the GREEN PARKS--a
View of BUCKINGHAM NEW PALACE, and of the GRAND ENTRANCE to the PALACE GARDENS at Hyde Park
Corner. The Supplement also contains minute references and descriptions of the above Engravings,
and the REPORT of the EXPEDITIONS of Captains Parry and Franklin, recently returned to England.
The daily increasing interest of the above subjects (which so largely engross the public attention)
cannot fail to render the above Number proportionally acceptable to our readers; whilst the
illustrations will recommend themselves by the fidelity of the sources from which they are
executed.

       *       *       *       *       *