Many years ago, I bought of a bookseller a MS. intitled "A Short History of the Legal and Judicial
Polity of Great Britain, attempted by Thos. Bever, LL.D., Advocate in Doctor's Commons, and
Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, 1759." It is presented to Richard Pennant, Esq.; and there
is a letter from Mr. Bever to Mr. Pennant wafered to the fly-leaf. At the close of the "Advertisement,"
the author "earnestly requests that it [the work] may not be suffered to fall into the hands
of a bookseller, or be copied, without his consent: and whenever it shall become useless, and
lose its value (if any it ever had) with the present owner, that he will be kind enough to
return it to the author if living, or if dead, to any of his surviving family at Mortimer near
Reading, Berks."

In pious sympathy with this wish, I more than thirty years since wrote a letter, addressed
to "---- Bever, Esq., Mortimer, near Reading, Berks," offering to give up the volume to any
one entitled to it under the above description; but my letter was returned from the post office
with the announcement "Not found" upon it. I make this other attempt, if you are pleased to
admit it, through you; and immediate attention will be paid to any claim which may appear in
your pages.

J.R.

       *       *       *       *       * {484}

QUERIES.

DR. RICHARD HOLSWORTH AND THOS. FULLER.

Can any of your readers inform me who was the author of The Valley of Vision, published in
1651 as the work of Dr. Richard Holsworth, the Master of Emmanuel College, and Dean of Worcester.
In a preface to the reader, Fuller laments "that so worthy a man should dye issulesse without
leaving any books behind him for the benefit of learning and religion." He adds that the private
notes which he had left behind him were dark and obscure; his hand being legible only to himself,
and almost useless for any other. The sermon published as The Valley of Vision appears to have
been prepared for publication from the notes of a short-hand writer. When Fuller published,
about eleven years afterwards, his Worthies of England, he wrote thus:--

    "Pity it is so learned a person left no monuments (save a
    sermon) to posterity; for I behold that posthume work as none
    of his, named by the transcriber The Valley of Vision, a
    Scripture expression, but here misplaced.... This I conceived
    myself in credit and conscience concerned to observe, because I
    was surprised at the preface to the book, and will take the
    blame rather than clear myself, when my innocency is complicated
    with the accusing of others."

If, as is probable, Dr. Holsworth, in this instance, preached other men's sermons, which the
short-hand writer afterwards gave to the world as his, it is a singular fact, that in the preface
of this supposititious volume, Fuller speaks of the abuse of printed sermons by some--

    "Who lazily imp their wings with other men's plumes, wherewith
    they soar high in common esteeme, yet have not the ingenuity
    with that son of the Prophet to confesse, Alasse! it was
    borrowed."

A.B.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK OF LONDON.

We promised to make a few QUERIES on this amusing volume, and thus redeem our promise.

Mr. Cunningham has been the first to point out the precise situation of a spot often mentioned
by our old dramatists, which had baffled the ingenuity of Gifford, Dyce, and in fact of all
the commentators,--the notorious Picthatch. He thus describes it:--

    "Picthatch, or Pickehatch.--A famous receptacle for
    prostitutes and pickpockets, generally supposed to have been in
    Turnmill Street, near Clerkenwell Green, but its position is
    determined by a grant of the 33rd of Queen Elizabeth, and a
    survey of 1649. What was Picthatch is a street at the back of
    a narrow turning called Middle Row (formerly Rotten Row)
    opposite the Charter-house wall in Goswell Street. The name is
    still preserved in 'Pickax Yard' adjoining Middle Row."

Why then, among the curious illustrations which he has brought to bear upon the subject, has
Mr. Cunningham omitted that of the origin of the name from the "picks upon the hatch?" which
is clearly established both by Malone and Steevens, in their notes upon "'twere not amiss to
keep our door hatch'd," in Pericles.

The following is an excellent suggestion as to the origin of the--

    "Goat and Compasses.--At Cologne, in the church of Santa Maria
    in Capitolio, is a flat stone on the floor professing to be the
    Grabstein der Brüder und Schwester eines ehrbaren Wein-und
    Fass-Ampts, Anno 1693; that is, as I suppose, a vault belonging
    to the Wine Coopers' Company. The arms exhibit a shield with a
    pair of compasses, an axe, and a dray, or truck, with goats for
    supporters. In a country like England, dealing so much at one
    time in Rhenish wine, a more likely origin for such a sign could
    hardly be imagined. For this information I am indebted to the
    courtesy of Sir Edmund Head."

Can Mr. Cunningham, Sir E. Head, or any of our correspondents point out any German "Randle
Holme" whose work may be consulted for the purpose of ascertaining the arms, &c. of the various
professions, trades, &c. of that country?

Why has not Mr. Cunningham, in his description of St. James' Street, mentioned what certainly
existed long after the commencement of the present century, the occasional "steps" which there
were in the foot-path--making the street a succession of terraces. This fact renders intelligible
the passage quoted from Pope's letter to Mr. Pearse, in which he speaks of "y'e second Terras
in St. James' Street." Why, too, omit that characteristic feature of the street, the rows of
sedan chairs with which it was formerly lined? The writer of this perfectly remembers seeing
Queen Charlotte in her sedan chair, going from the Queen's Library in the Green Park to Buckingham
House.

Mr. Cunningham states, we dare say correctly, that Sheridan died at No. 17 Saville Row. We
thought he had died at Mr. Peter Moore's, in Great George Street, Westminster. Was he not living
there shortly before his death? and did not his funeral at Westminster Abbey proceed from Mr.
Moore's?

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN MACBETH. The same thought occurs in Hamlet, when he alludes to--

  "That undiscovered country, from whose bourne
  No traveller returns."

But that is clear enough, as in all probability the annotators left the passage as they found
it. I have not the opportunity of consulting Mr. Collier's edition of Shakespeare, so that
I am unaware of the manner in which he renders it; perhaps I ought to have done so before I
troubled you. Possibly some of your readers may be disposed to coincide with me in the "new
reading;" and if not, so to explain it that it may be shown it is my own obscurity, and not
Shakespeare's, with which I ought to cavil.

I have witnessed many representations of Macbeth, and in every instance the passage referred
to has been delivered as I object to it: but that is not to be wondered at, for there are professed
admirers of Shakspeare among actors who read him not as if they understood him, but who are--

  "Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing."

G. BLINK.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

As throng as Throp's Wife.--As I was busy in my garden yesterday, a parishioner, whose eighty-two
years of age render her a somewhat privileged person to have a gossip with, came in to speak
to me. With a view to eliciting material for a Note or a Query, I said to her, "You see I am
as throng as Throp's wife;" to which she replied, "Aye, Sir, and she hanged herself in the
dishcloth." The answer is new to me; but the proverb itself, as well as the one mentioned by
"D.V.S." (No. 24. p. 382.) "As lazy as Ludlum's dog, &c.," has been an especial object of conjecture
to me as long as I can remember. I send this as a pendant to "D.V.S.'s" Query, in hopes of
shortly seeing the origin of both these curious sayings.

J.E.

Ecclesfield, Sheffield, April 19. 1850.

Trimble Family.--In a MS. account of the Fellows of King's I find the following:--

    "1530.--Rich. Trimble, a very merry fellow, the fiddle of the
    society, who called him 'Mad Trimble.' M. Stokes of 1531 wrote
    this distich on him:--

      'Os, oculi, mentum, dens, guttur, lingua, palatum
        Sunt tibi; sed nasus, Trimbale, dic ubi sit?'

    By which it appears he had a very small nose; and this day, July
    13, 1739, I hear that there is one Mr. R. Trimble of an English
    family, an apothecary at Lisburn in Ireland, who is remarkable
    for the same."

As "NOTES AND QUERIES" circulate in Ireland, are there any of the family of "Trimble" now in
that country, and are they distinguished by any such peculiarity?

J.H.L.

The Word "Brozier."--my brother Etonians will feelingly recollect the word "Brozier," used
by the boys for nearly a century to denote any one who had spent his pocket-money; an event
of very frequent occurrence shortly after the holidays. There were also sometimes attempts
made to "brozier my dame," in case a suspicion had arisen that the good lady's larder was not
too well supplied. The supper table was accordingly cleared of all the provisions, and a further
stock of eatables peremptorily demanded.

I spell the word "brozier" as it is still pronounced; perhaps some of your readers have seen
it in print, and may be able to give some account of its origin and etymology, and decide whether
it is exclusively belonging to Eton.

BRAYBROOKE.

April 14.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

THE DODO QUERIES.

There is no mention of the Solitaire as inhabiting Bourbon, either in Père Brown's letter or
in the Voyage de l'Arabic Heureuse, from whence the notice of the Oiseau Bleu was extracted.
I have since seen Dellon, Rélation d'un Voyage des Indes Orientales, 2 vols. 12mo. Paris, 1685,
in which there is a brief notice of the Isle of Bourbon or Mascarin; but neither the Dodo,
the Solitaire, or the Oiseau Bleu are noticed. The large Bat is mentioned, and the writer says
that the French who were on the island did not eat it, but only the Indians. He also notices
the tameness of the birds, and says that the Flammand, with its long neck, is the only bird
it was necessary to use a gun against, the others being readily destroyed with a stick or taken
by hand.

Mr. Strickland's correction of the error about the monumental evidence of the discovery of
Bourbon by the Portuguese, in 1545, will aid research into the period at which it was first
visited and named; but my stock of Portuguese literature is but small, and not all of it accessible
{486} to me at present. In the meantime it may be acceptable to Mr. Strickland to know, that
there is a detailed account of Portuguese discoveries in a book whose title would hardly indicate
it, in which one passage will probably interest him. I allude to the rare and interesting folio
volume printed at Lisbon in 1571. De Rebus Emanuelis Regis Lusitanie, invictissimi Virtute
et Auspicio Gestis, auctore Hieronymo Osorio Episcopo Silvensis. These annals embrace the period
from 1495 to 1529. In narrating the principal events of Vasco de Gama's first voyage, after
he had rounded the Cape of Good Hope on the 25th November, 1497, steering to the east along
the southern coast of Africa, the vessels anchor in the bay of St. Blaize, where--

    "In intimo sinu est parva quædam Insula, ad quam nostri aquandi
    gratia naves-appulerunt. Ibi phocarum armenta conspexere
    admiranda quædam multitudine. In quibus inerat tanta feritas et
    truculentia, ut in homines irruerent. AVES etiam eo in loco visæ
    sunt, quas incolas apellant SOLTICARIOS, pares anscribus
    magnitudine: plumis minime vestiuntur, alas habent similes alis
    verspertionum: volare nequeunt, sed explicatis alarum membranis,
    cursum celeritate summa conficiunt."

The islet was probably that of La Cruz; but what were the birds? and what was the indigenous
name which is represented by Solticarios? It is possible that some of your correspondents may
be familiar with the original narration which Osorio follows, or Mr. Strickland may be able
to solve the question.

I may just remark, that my observation respecting the improbability of Tradescant's stuffed
specimen having been a fabrication could hardly be considered superfluous, seeing that some
naturalists, Dr. Gray, I believe, among others, had suggested that it most probably was one.

S.W. SINGER.

May 3. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABBEY OF ST. WANDRILLE.

In reply to the Vicar of Ecclesfield (No. 24. p. 382.), I am sorry to say that the "Chronicle
of the Abby of St. Wandrille," to which I alluded (No. 21. p. 338.), contains nothing relating
to the subject of his inquiry. The Abbey of Fontanelle, or St. Wandrille, was founded A.D.
645; and this chronicle contains a very concise account of a few only of its abbots and most
celebrated members, down to the year 834: written, it is supposed, by a cotemporary of Ansegisus,
the last abbot therein mentioned. It is followed by an appendix containing a compilation from
a book on miracles wrought in the translation of the body of St. Wilfran, by an "eye-witness,"
which also recounts incidentally some of the acts of the abbots of St. Wandrille to the year
1053. Acheri speaks of persons who had been long engaged in collecting memorials of the history
of this abbey up to the time of his writing, 1659. Whether these have ever been published,
I have not the means at this moment of ascertaining. Some account of this abbey, with views
of its ruins, will be found in that splendid work, Voyages dans L'Ancienne France, by Nodier,
&c., vol. i.

The following notes from this chronicle may not be without interest, as showing an early connection
between the abbey and this country, and our attachment to the See of Rome.

Chapter V. is devoted to the praise of BAGGA, a monk and presbyter of this abbey, who is said
to have been "ex Britanniâ Oceani insula Saxonico ex genere ortus." He died, and was buried
in the abbey, between the years 707 and 723; on which occasion the Abbot Benignus is said to
have exclaimed, "O signifer fortissime Christi militiæ BAGGA, nunc mercedem laborum lætus accipis
tuorum. Deprecare ipsum benignum Dominum, ut unà tecum mereamur gaudere consortiis justorum
per ævum." Here is a prayer not for, but to the dead.

During the presidency of AUSTRULPHUS (ch. 13.), which began in 747 and ended in 753, a certain
receptacle, in the form of a small pharos, was driven ashore in the district of Coriovallum,
which contained a very fair copy of the four Gospels, beautifully written in Roman characters
on the purest vellum; and part of the precious jaw of St. George the Martyr, as well as a portion
of the "health-bearing" wood of the true cross, duly labelled. The acquisition of this treasure
was of course ascribed to the immediate interposition of God. And as about the same period
the head of St. George was discovered at Rome, through the intervention of Pope Zachary, it
was conjectured that this pontiff had given the wonder-working relic to some venerable men
from Britain, a country described as being "always on the most intimate footing (maximè familiares)
with the Apostolic See;" and that, these being wrecked on their voyage home, or through some
other adventure, the said treasure was providentially driven ashore at Coriovallum.

Chapter XV. gives us an account of GERVOLDUS, who ruled this abbey eighteen years, dying A.D.
806. He had been ambassador from Charlemagne to Offa, King of Mercia. The son of Charlemagne
demanded the daughter of Offa in marriage, who refused his consent, unless his own son should
receive the hand of Bertha, the daughter of the French king. Charles, in consequence, inhibited
the subjects of Offa from trading on the French coast. This inhibition was, however, withdrawn
through the mediation of the Abbot Gervoldus, who seems to have been in great favour with Charles.

I need hardly say, that throughout the chronicle there is a tolerable sprinkling of the marvellous.
{487} I give you the following as a warning to all dishonest bell-founders.

The pious builder of a church being desirous, according to custom, of putting a bell in the
turret, engaged a skillful craftsman to carry into effect his design. This man, "at the instigation
of the devil," stole some of the metal with which he had been furnished for the work; and the
bell was, in consequence, mis-shapen and of small size. It was, however, placed in the turret;
but, as a divine punishment for his crime, whenever the bell was struck, the dishonest founder
was thereupon seized with frenzy, uttering strange words and barking like a dog!

GASTROS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE WORD "NEWS."

I have great respect for "Mr. SAMUEL HICKSON," but I cannot treat his derivation of the word
"News" with any respect (No. 27. p. 428.). I wish "Mr. HICKSON" had been a little more modest
in his manner of propounding his novelty. Can any thing be more dogmatic than his assertions?
which I will recapitulate as much as possible in his own words, before I proceed to deal with them.

1. "I have never had the least doubt that this word is derived immediately from the German."

2. "It is, in fact, 'das Neue' in the genitive case;" and "Mr. H." proceeds to mention the
German phrase, "Was giebt's Neues?" as giving the exact sense of our "What is the news?" [which
cannot be gainsaid; but I shall have a word to say presently about neues in that phrase being
the genitive case.]

3. "That the word is not derived from the English adjective 'new,'--that it is not of English
manufacture at all--I feel well assured."

4. "In that case 's' would be the sign of the plural; and we should have, as the Germans have,
either extant or obsolete, also 'the new.'" [I do not see the sequitur.]

5 "'News' is a noun singular, and as such must have been adopted bodily into the language."

Such are "Mr. HICKSON's" principal assertions: and when I add, that he has found out that the
German "neu" was in olden time spelt "new," so that the genitive, "newes," was identical with
the old form of the English word "news;" and that he explains the transformation of a genitive
case of a German adjective into an English substantive by English ignorance, which he further
thinks is exemplified by the Koran having been called "the Alkoran," in ignorance of "Al" meaning
"the," I have given not only all of his assertions, but also the whole of his argument.

I now proceed to assert on my part that the word "news" is not "derived immediately from the
German," and "has not been adopted bodily into our language;" that the English "new" and German
"neu" have, however, of course the same origin, their common root being widely spread in other
languages, as [Greek: neos], Gr.; norus, Lat.; neuf, Fr., &c.; that "news" is a noun of plural
form and plural meaning, like goods, riches, &c.; that its peculiar and frequent use is quite
sufficient to account for its having come to be used as a singular noun ("riches," by the way,
may be prefixed sometimes to a singular verb, as "riches is a cause of corruption"); that Mr.
HICKSON might as well say that "goods" is derived immediately from "gutes," the genitive of
"gut;" and "riches" from "reiches," the genitive of "reich:" and also that if "s" in "goods,"
and "es" in "riches" are signs of the plural, "we should have, as the Germans have, either
extant or obsolete," the "good," "the rich," (not that I quite understand this part of "Mr.
HICKSON's" argument): and, lastly, I assert that I believe that Neues, in the phrase "Was giebt's
Neues?" is not the genitive, but the nominative neuter, so that the phrase is to be literally
translated "What is there new?"

As regards the derivation of "News," I wish you had allowed the question to rest as it stood
after the sensible remarks of "A.E.B." (No. 23. p. 369.). Pray excuse me, Sir, for expressing
a hope that you will ponder well before you again allow us to be puzzled on so plain a subject,
and give circulation and your sanction to paradoxes, even though coming from one so entitled
to attention as "Mr. HICKSON."

The early communication between the English and German languages, of which "Mr. HICKSON" puts
forward the derivation of "news" from "neues" as an instance, may be an interesting and profitable
subject of inquiry; but as I think he has been singularly unfortunate in the one instance,
so I do not think him particularly happy in his other. I see no further resemblance between
Heywood's "Song in praise of his Mistress," and the early German poem, than what might arise
from treatment of the same and a very common subject.

I am not enough of an etymologist to give you the root of the word "noise." But my faith in
"Mr. HICKSON" in this capacity is not strong enough to lead me to believe, on his dictum, that
"news" and "noise" are the same word; and when, pursuing his fancy about "neues," he goes on
to say that "noise" is "from a dialect from which the modern German pronunciation of the dipthong
is derived," I fear his pronunciation of German is faulty, if he pronounces eu in "Neues" like
oi in "noise."

    [We differ from our correspondent on this point, and think that
    here, at all events, Mr. HICKSON has the advantage of the
    argument.]

I beg to repeat that for "Mr. HICKSON" I feel great respect. If he knew my name, he would probably
know nothing about me; but I happen {488} to know of him, what perhaps, some of your readers
do not, that he has unostentatiously rendered many considerable services not only to literature
but to our social and political interests. In my humble opinion, his recent essay in your columns
on The Taming of the Shrew is a contribution to our literary history which you may be proud
of having published. But I feel that I cannot too strongly protest against his derivation of
"News."

CH.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Dr. Whichcot and Lord Shaftesbury (No. 24. p. 382., No. 27. p. 444.).--I am obliged to "COLL.
REGAL. SOCIUS" for his notice of my inquiry. The Lord Chamberlain and Chancellor of Cambridge
University mentioned in Lord Lauderdale's letter to Dr. Whichcot, is the Earl of Manchester.
Shaftesbury was never either Lord Chamberlain or Chancellor of Cambridge.

I may mention that Whichcot's intimacy with Lord Shaftesbury would probably have been brought
about by his being incumbent of the church of St. Lawrence Jewry, Shaftesbury having his London
house in the latter part of his life in Aldersgate Street.

If it is not committing unpardonable trespass on that useful part of your publication in which
books and odd volumes are asked for, I will go on to say that I should be glad to have a copy
of the volume of Whichcot's Sermons (1698) which the third Lord Shaftesbury edited, at a reasonable
price.

CH.

Elizabeth and Isabel (No. 27. p. 439.).--Mr. Thomas Duffus Hardy, in his evidence on the Camoys
Peerage case (June 18. 1838, Evidence, p. 351.) proved that the names of Isabella and Elizabeth
were in ancient times used indifferently, and particularly in the reigns of Edward I. and Edward
III. Mr. Hardy says in his evidence:--

    "In the British Museum there is a Latin letter of Elizabeth of
    Austria, Queen of Charles IX. of France, to Queen Elizabeth of
    England. In the Latin she is called Elizabetha, and she signs
    her name Ysabel. In the Chronicle de St. Denis, in the year
    1180, it is stated, 'Le jor martmes espousa la noble Roine
    Ysabel,' 'Upon this day, Queen Elizabeth was married;' and in
    Rigordus de Gestis Philippi Augusti Regis Francois it is
    stated, 'Tune inuncta fuit Elizabeth uxor ejus venerabilis
    foemina;' and Moreri says she is called 'Elizabeth or Izabeau de
    Hainault, Queen of France, wife of Philippe Auguste.' Camden, in
    his Remains, says, 'Isabel is the same as Elizabeth;' that the
    Spaniards always translate Elizabeth into Isabel, and the French
    into Izabeau. I have seen in the British Museum a deed, in which
    the name Elizabetha is written in Latin; on the seal it is
    Isabella. In the Inquisitiones post Mortem I have frequently
    seen Ysabella returned in one country and Elizabetha in an other
    for the same person. I have something like a dozen other
    instances from Moreri, in which he says that Elizabeth and
    Isabella or Isabeau are the same. Elizabeth or Izabeau de
    France, dau. of Lewis VIII. and Blanche of Castella; Elizabeth
    or Isabelle d'Aragon, Queen of France, wife of Philippe III.,
    surnamed le Hardie; Elizabeth or Isabeau de Bavière, Queen of
    France, wife of Charles VI.; Elizabeth or Isabeau d'Angoulême,
    wife of King John of England; Elizabeth or Isabeau de France,
    Queen of England, dau. of Philippe IV.; Elizabeth or Isabelle of
    France, Queen of Richard II.; Elizabeth or Isabelle de France,
    Queen of Navarre; Elizabeth or Isabelle de Valois, dau. of
    Charles of France; Elizabeth or Isabelle de France, dau. of
    Philippe le Long, King of France; Elizabeth or Isabelle de
    France, Duchess of Milan; Elizabeth or Isabelle, Queen of
    Philippe V. of Spain."

WM. DURRANT COOPER.

81. Guildford Street, May 4. 1850.

Elizabeth--Isabel.--The Greek word [Greek: Elisabet] (Luke, i. 5. &c.) from which Elizabeth,
or Elisabeth, must have been adopted as a Christian name, is used by the LXX. (Exodus, vi.
23.) to express the Hebrew [Hebrew: Elisheba], the name of Aaron's wife. This at once directs
us to the verb [Hebrew: shaba], or rather to its Niphal, [Hebrew: nishba], for the Kal form
does not occur, to swear; for the combination of letters in [Hebrew: el isshaba], God will
swear, or God sweareth, is the same as that in the proper name. Now let us transpose the verb
and its nominative case, and we have [Hebrew: ishaba el], which a Greek translator might soften
into [Greek: Isabel].

The use of [Greek: Elisabet] both by the LXX. and the Evangelist, makes it probable that the
mother of John the Baptist, who was of the daughters of Aaron (Luke, i. 5.), was known amongst
her own people by the recognized and family name of Elisheba, as Anna no doubt would be Hannah
([Hebrew: hanah]), and Mary, Miriam ([Greek: Mariam], Luke, i. 27.). And this is confirmed
by the Syriac version, the vernacular, or nearly so, of Our Blessed Lord and His disciples,
which has [Syriac: elisheba].

Genesius, in his Lexicon, explains Elisheba to mean "cui Deus est sacramentum," "quæ jurat
per Deum, i.e. Dei cultrix: cf. Is. xix. 18." I should rather take it to be a name expressive
of trust in God's promises or oath, such as Elijah, "the LORD is my God;" Isaiah, "the LORD
is my salvation;" Ezekiel, "God strengtheneth." Schleusner (Lex. N.T.) says that others derived
it from [Hebrew: saba], saturavit; "sic in Alberti Gloss. N.T., p. 87. explicatur, [Greek:
Theou mou plaesmonae]." Wolfius, in his note on Luke, i. 5., refers to Witsii Miscellanea,
tom. ii. p. 478., to which I must refer your correspondent "A.C.," as I have not the book by me.

Camden must, of course, have derived the name {489} from [Hebrew: shabath], to rest; but I
think we must rather defer to the authority of the LXX. And though [Hebrew: el ishaboth] may
give us Elisabeth, we shall not be able to deduce Isabel from [Hebrew: ishboth el] quite so easily.

B.

L ---- Rectory, S ----, May 4. 1850.

Trunck Breeches (No. 24. p. 384.), more commonly called "trunk-hose," were short wide breeches
reaching a little above, or sometimes below the knees, stuffed with hair, and striped. (See
The Oxford Manual for Brasses, p. cvi.; and Planche's British Costume, pp. 334-339. new ed.)
Two years ago, I saw in the Strand an old man with a queue; a sight which I made a note of
as soon as I got home, influenced by the same motive that, no doubt, led Smith in 1640 to append
to the death of "old Mr. Grice" the remark, "who wore truncke breeches," namely, the antique
singularity of the habiliment.

ARUN.

Mercenary Preacher (No. 24. p. 384.).--I think mercenary here is used in its primary signification,
and in the sense in which we still apply it to troops in the pay of a state foreign to their
own; to designate one who, having no settled cure, was at liberty to be "hired" by those who
had occasion for his services.

ARUN.

Abdication of James the Second (No. 3. p. 40.).--"J.E." would probably hear of the MSS. mentioned
by Sir Harris Nicholas, on application to the Rev. Sir Thomas Miller, Bart., Froyle, near Alton,
Hants.

E.W. Clifton.

Toom Shawn Cattie (No. 24. p. 383.).--An entertaining volume, containing the life and adventures
of Twm Sion Catti, was published at Biulth some years ago, by Mr. Jeffery Llewelyn Prichard,
who recently told me it was out of print, and that inquiries had been made for the book which
might probably lead to a new and improved edition.

ELIJAH WARING. Dowry Parade, Clifton.

Wotton's Poem to Lord Bacon (No. 19. p. 302.).--The poem communicated by Dr. Rimbault, with
the heading, "To the Lord Bacon when falling from Favour," and with the remark that he does
"not remember to have seen it in print," was written by Sir Henry Wotton, and may be found
under the title, "Upon the sudden restraint of the Earl of Somerset, then falling from Favour,"
in all the old editions of the Reliquiæ Wottonianæ (1651, 1654, 1672, and 1685), as well as
in the modern editions of Sir Henry's poems, by Mr. Dyce and Mr. Hannah. It was also printed
as Wotton's in Clarke's Aurea Legenda, 1682, p. 97., and more recently in Campbell's Specimens,
in both cases, doubtless, from Rel. Wotton. The misapplication of it to Lord Bacon's fall dates
from an unauthorised publication in 1651, which misled Park in his edition of Walpole's Royal
and Noble Authors, ii. 208. In stanza 3. line 2. of Dr. Rimbault's copy, "burst" should be "trust."

R.A.

"My Mind to Me a Kingdom is" (No. 19. p. 302.).--The following note, from the Introduction
to Mr. Hannah's edition of the Poems of Sir H. Wotton and Sir Walter Raleigh, 1845, p. lxv.,
will answer Dr. Rimbault's Query, and also show that a claim had been put in for Sir E. Dyer
before Mr. Singer's very valuable communication to "NOTES AND QUERIES," p. 355.

    "There are three copies of verses on that model; two of which,
    viz., one of four stanzas and another of size, were printed by
    Byrd in 1588. They have been reprinted from his text in Cens.
    Lit ii. 108-110, and Exc. Tudor, i. 100-103. Percy inserted
    them in the Reliques with some alterations and additions; but
    he changed his mind more than once as to whether they were two
    distinct poems, or only the discovered parts of one (see i.
    292-294. 303., ed. 1767; and i. 307-310. ed. 1839). The third
    (containing four stanzas) is among Sylvester's Posthumous
    Poems p. 651.; and Ellis reprinted it under his name. In Cens.
    Lit. ii. 102., another copy of it is given from a music book by
    Gibbons, 1612. Now the longest, and apparently the earliest of
    these poems is signed 'E. DIER,' in MS. Rawl. Poet. 35., fol.
    17. That copy contains eight stanzas, and one of the two which
    are not in Byrd corresponds with a stanza which Percy added. The
    following are the reasons which incline us to trust this
    MS.:--(1.) Because it is the very MS. to which reference is
    commonly made for several of Dyer's unprinted poems, as by Dr.
    Bliss, A.O. i. 743.; and apparently by Mr. Dyce, ed. of
    Greene, i. p. xxxv. n.; and by Park, note on Warton, iii. 230.
    Park is the only person I can recollect who has mentioned this
    particular poem in the MS., and he cannot have read more than
    the first line, for he only says, 'one of them bears the popular
    burden of "My mind to me a kingdom is."' (2.) Because it is
    quite impossible that Dyer wrote many extant poems, of which he
    is not known to be the author; for, as Mr. Dyce says, none of
    his (acknowledged) productions 'have descended to our times
    that seem to justify the contemporary applause which he
    received.' (3.) Because I cannot discover that there is any
    other claimant to this poem. One of Greene's poems ends with the
    line,

      'A mind content both crown and kingdom is.'"

      (Works, ii. 288., ed. Dyce.)

It will be observed that no mention is here made of the copy in Breton's tract; therefore this
summary gains from both the correspondents of "NOTES AND QUERIES"--an addition from the one,
a corroboration from the other.

R.A.

Gesta Grayorum (No. 22. p. 351.).--"J.S." is informed that copies of the Gesta Grayorum are
by no means uncommon. It was originally printed {490} for one shilling; but the bibliomaniac
must now pay from twenty to thirty shillings for a copy. The original, printed in 1688, does
not contain the second part, which was published by Mr. Nichols for the first time. Copies
are in the Bodleian, and in the University Library, Cambridge.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Marylebone Gardens (No. 24. p. 383.).--These gardens were finally closed in 1777-8. It is not
generally known that, previous to the year 1737, this "fashionable" place of amusement was
entered gratis by all ranks of people; but the company becoming more "select," Mr. Gough, the
proprietor, determined to charge a shilling as entrance money, for which the party paying was
to receive an equivalent in viands.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Mother of Thomas à Becket (No. 26. p. 415.).--An inspection of some of the numerous legends
touching the blessed martyr, St. Thomas of Canterbury, would probably supply many interesting
particulars concerning the story of his father's romantic marriage. But the most important
narrative is that of Herbert Bosham, Becket's secretary, who, it will be remembered, was present
at his martyrdom. Bosham's Vita et Res Gestæ Thomæ Episcopi Cantuariensis is published in the
Quadrilogus, Paris, 1495. Consult also the French translation of Peter Langtoft, and the English
one by Laurence Wade, a Benedictine monk of Canterbury. Robert of Gloucester's metrical Legend
of the Life and Martyrdom of Thomas Beket, published by the Percy Society, under the editorial
care of Mr. W.H. Black, fully confirms the "romance;" as also do the later historians, Hollingshed,
Fox, and Baker.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Dr. Strode's Poem (no. 10. p. 147.).--Dr. Strode's poem, beginning--

  "Return my joys, and hither bring--"

