He had already pledged himself to take the necessary steps to procure the reversal of his outlawry;
and, in pursuance of his promise, he surrendered in the Court of King's Bench. But his removal
to prison caused a renewal of the tumults with greater violence than before. The mob even rescued
him from the officers who had him in custody; and when, having escaped from his deliverers,
he, with a parade of obedience to the law, again surrendered himself voluntarily at the gate
of the King's Bench Prison, they threatened to attack the jail itself, kindled a fire under
its walls, which was not extinguished without some danger, and day after day assembled in such
tumultuous and menacing crowds, that at last Lord Weymouth, the Secretary of State, wrote a
letter to the Surrey magistrates, enjoining them to abstain from no measures which might seem
necessary for the preservation of peace, even if that could only be effected by the employment
of the soldiery. The riots grew more and more formidable, till at last the magistrates had
no resource but to call out the troops, who, on one occasion, after they had been pelted with
large stones, and in many instances severely injured, fired, killing or wounding several of
the foremost rioters. So tragical an event seemed to Wilkes to furnish him with exactly such
an opportunity as he desired to push himself into farther notoriety. He at once printed Lord
Weymouth's letter, and circulated it, with an inflammatory comment, in which he described it
as a composition having for its fruit "a horrid massacre, the consummation of a hellish plot
deliberately planned." Too angry to be prudent, Lord Weymouth complained to the House of Lords
of this publication as a breach of privilege, and the Lords formally represented it to the
House of Commons as an insult deliberately offered to them by one of its members. There could
be no doubt that such language as Wilkes had used was libellous. In its imputation of designs
of deliberate wickedness, it very far exceeded the bitterest passages of The North Briton;
and Lord Weymouth's colleagues, therefore, thought they might safely follow the precedent set
in 1764, of branding the publication as a libel, and again procuring the expulsion of the libeller
from the House of Commons. There were circumstances in the present case, such as the difference
between the constituencies of Aylesbury and Middlesex, and the enthusiastic fervor in the offender's
cause which the populace of the City had displayed, which made it very doubtful whether the
precedent of 1764 were quite a safe one to follow; but the ministers not only disregarded every
such consideration, but, as if they had wantonly designed to give their measure a bad appearance,
and to furnish its opponents with the strongest additional argument against it, they mixed
up with their present complaint a reference to former misdeeds of Wilkes with which it had
no connection. On receiving the message of the Lords, they had summoned him to appear at the
bar of the House of Commons, that he might be examined on the subject; but this proceeding
was so far from intimidating him, that he not only avowed the publication of his comment on
Lord Weymouth's letter, but gloried in it, asserting that he deserved the thanks of the people
for bringing to light the true character of "that bloody scroll." Such language was regarded
as an aggravation of his offence, and the Attorney-general moved that his comment on the letter
"was an insolent, scandalous, and seditious libel;" and, when that motion had been carried,
Lord Barrington followed it up with another, to the effect that "John Wilkes, Esq., a member
of this House, who hath at the bar of this House confessed himself to be the author and publisher
of what the House has resolved to be an insolent, scandalous, and seditious libel, and who
has been convicted in the Court of King's Bench of having printed and published a seditious
libel, and three[11] obscene and impious libels, and by the judgment of the said Court has
been sentenced to undergo twenty-two months' imprisonment, and is now in execution under the
said judgment, be expelled this House." This motion encountered a vigorous opposition, not
only from Mr. Burke and the principal members of the Rockingham party, which now formed the
regular Opposition, but also from Mr. Grenville, the former Prime-minister, who on the former
occasion, in 1764, had himself moved the expulsion of the same offender. His speech on this
occasion is the only one which is fully reported; and it deserved the distinction from the
exhaustive way in which it dealt with every part of the question. It displayed no inclination
to extenuate Wilkes's present offence, but it pointed out with great force the circumstance
that the supporters of the motion were far from agreement as to the reasons by which they were
guided; that some members of the greatest authority in the House, while they had avowed their
intention of voting for the expulsion, had at the same time been careful to explain that the
comment on Lord Weymouth's letter was not the ground of their vote; that so great a lawyer
as Mr. Blackstone had asserted that that comment "had not been properly and regularly brought
before the House," but had founded his intention to vote for the expulsion solely "upon that
article of the charge which related to the three obscene and impious libels mentioned in it,
disavowing in the most direct terms all the other articles." That, on the other hand, other
members of deserved weight and influence, such as Lord Palmerston and Lord F. Campbell, had
disdained the idea of regarding "the article of the three obscene and impious libels as affording
any ground for their proceeding." So practised a debater as Mr. Grenville had but little difficulty,
therefore, in arguing against the advocates of expulsion, when they were so divided that one
portion of them did, in fact, reply to the other. But it would be superfluous here to enter
into the arguments employed on either side to justify the expulsion, or to prove it to be unjustifiable,
from a consideration of the character of either Wilkes or his publication. The strength and
importance of Mr. Grenville's speech lay in the constitutional points which it raised.

Some supporters of the ministers had dwelt upon the former expulsion, insisting that "a man
who had been expelled by a former House of Commons could not possibly be deemed a proper person
to sit in the present Parliament, unless he had some pardon to plead, or some merit to cancel
his former offences." By a reference to the case of Sir R. Walpole, Mr. Grenville proved that
this had not been the opinion of former Parliaments; and he contended, with unanswerable logic,
that it would be very mischievous to the nation if such a principle should be now acted on,
and such a precedent established, since, though employed in the first instance against the
odious and the guilty, it might, when once established, be easily applied to, and made use
of against, the meritorious and the innocent; and so the most eminent and deserving members
of the state, under the color of such an example, by one arbitrary and discretionary vote of
one House of Parliament, the worst species of ostracism, might be excluded from the public
councils, cut off and proscribed from the rights of every subject of the realm, not for a term
of years alone, but forever. He quoted from "L'Esprit des Lois" an assertion of Montesquieu,
that "one of the excellences of the English constitution was, that the judicial power was separated
from the legislative, and that there would be no liberty if they were blended together; the
power over the life and liberty of the citizens would then be arbitrary, for the judge would
be the legislator." And, having thus proved that it would be a violation of the recognized
constitution to found a second expulsion on the first, he proceeded to argue that to expel
him for this new offence would be impolitic and inexpedient, as a step which would inevitably
lead to a contest with the constituency which he represented, since, "in the present disposition
of the county of Middlesex, no one could entertain a doubt that Wilkes would be re-elected.
The House would then probably think itself under a necessity of again expelling him, and he
would as certainly be again re-elected. The House might, indeed, refuse to issue a new writ,
which would be to deprive the freeholders of Middlesex of the right of choosing any other representative;
but he could not believe that the House would think it fit to inflict such a punishment on
the electors of a great county. Should it not do so, the other alternative would be to bring
into the House as representative and knight of the shire for Middlesex a man chosen by a few
voters only, in contradiction to the declared sense of a great majority of the freeholders
on the face of the poll, upon the supposition that all the votes of the latter were forfeited
and thrown away on account of the expulsion of Mr. Wilkes." It seemed premature to discuss
that point before it arose, and therefore the Speaker contented himself for the present with
saying that "he believed there was no example of such a proceeding; and that, if it should
appear to be new and unfounded as the law of the land, or even if any reasonable doubt could
be entertained of its legality, the attempt to forfeit the freeholders' votes in such a manner
would be highly alarming and dangerous."

Few prophecies have been more exactly fulfilled. And, in pursuance of this vote, a writ was
again issued. At the end of another month the proceeding required to be repeated. Wilkes had
again offered himself for re-election. No other candidate had presented himself, and, in answer
to an inquiry, the under-sheriff reported that "no other candidate had been proposed but John
Wilkes, Esq., and that no elector had given or tendered his vote for any other person." Once
more the House resolved that he was "incapable of being elected," and issued a new writ. But
on this second occasion the ministry had provided a rival candidate in the person of the Honorable
H.K. Luttrell. He was duly proposed and seconded; a poll was taken and kept open for several
days, and, as it appeared at the close that 1143 votes had been given for Wilkes and 296 for
Mr. Luttrell, the sheriff again returned Wilkes as duly elected.

A debate of singularly angry excitement arose on the reception of this return. Even lawyers,
such as Mr. De Grey, the Attorney-general, and Sir Fletcher Norton, who had been Attorney-general,
were not ashamed to denounce the conduct of the sheriff in returning Mr. Wilkes as "highly
improper and indecent," as "a flying in the face of a resolution of the House of Commons;"
and Sir Fletcher even ventured to advance the proposition that, "as the Commons were acting
in a judicial capacity, their resolutions were equal to law." Lord North, too, the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, as we learn from the "Parliamentary History," "spoke long, but chiefly to
the passions. He described Mr. Wilkes and his actions in a lively manner; showed the variety
of troubles which he had given the ministry; and that unless, by voting in Mr. Luttrell, an
end were put to this debate, the whole kingdom would be in confusion; though he owned that
he did not think that measure would put an end to the distractions. He spoke much more to the
expediency than to the legality of the measure proposed."

On the other side, it was contended by several members, Burke and Mr. Grenville being of the
number, that "the House of Commons alone could not make a law binding any body but themselves.
That, if they could disqualify one person, they could disqualify as many as they pleased, and
thus get into their own hands the whole power of the government;" and precedents were produced
to prove that votes of the House of Lords, and also of the House of Commons, regarding their
own members, had been disregarded by the judges of the Court of King's Bench as being contrary
to law. But the minister was secure of the steadiness of his adherents, and a majority of 221
to 152 declared that Mr. Luttrell had been duly elected.

But Lord North was correct in his anticipation that their vote would not put an end to the
agitation on the question, and it was renewed in the next session in a manner which at one
time threatened to produce a breach between the two Houses.

The "Parliamentary History" closes its report of the debate on the resolution by which Mr.
Luttrell was seated with a summary of the arguments used in it, taken from the "Annual Register,"
which, as is universally known, was at this time edited by Mr. Burke. It is a very fair and
candid abstract, which, in fact, puts the whole question on one single issue, "that the House
of Commons is the sole court of judicature in all cases of election, and that this authority
is derived from the first principles of our government, viz., the necessary independence of
the three branches of the Legislature." But, though that doctrine was fully admitted by the
Opposition, they made "that very admission a ground for reviving the question in the next session,
by moving for a resolution which should declare that, 'being a Court of Judicature, the House
of Commons, in deciding matters of election, was bound to judge according to the law of the
land, and the known and established law of Parliament, which was part thereof.'" It was understood
that this resolution, if carried, was intended as a stepping-stone to others which should condemn
the decision of the previous session; yet it seemed such a truism that even the ministers could
not venture to deny it; but they proposed to defeat the object of its framers by adding to
it a declaration that the late decision was "agreeable to the said law of the land." And we
might pass on to the subsequent debate, in which the constitutional correctness of that addition
was distinctly challenged, did it not seem desirable to notice two arguments which were brought
forward against the motion, one by an independent member, Mr. Ongley, the other by the Attorney-general.
Mr. Ongley contended that "a power of preserving order and decency is essentially necessary
to every aggregate body; and, with respect to this House, if it had not power over its particular
members, they would be subject to no control at all." The answer to this argument is obvious:
that a right on the part of the House to control the conduct of its members is a wholly different
thing from a right to determine who are or ought to be members; and that for the House to claim
this latter right, except on grounds of qualification or disqualification legally proved, would
be to repeat one of the most monstrous of all Cromwell's acts of tyranny, when, in 1656, he
placed guards at the door of the House, with orders to refuse admission to all those members
whom, however lawfully elected, he did not expect to find sufficiently compliant for his purposes.
Mr. De Grey's argument was of a different character, being based on what he foretold would
be the practical result of a decision that expulsion did not involve an incapacity to be re-elected.
If it did not involve such incapacity, and if, in consequence, Mr. Wilkes should be re-elected,
he considered that the House would naturally feel it its duty to re-expel him as often as the
constituency re-elected him. But one answer given to this argument was, that to expel a second
time would be to punish twice for one offence, a proceeding at variance not only with English
law but with every idea of justice. Another, and one which has obtained greater acceptance,
was, that the legitimate doctrine was, that the issue of a new writ gave the expelled member
an appeal from the House to the constituency, and that the constituency had a constitutional
right to overrule the judgment of the House, and to determine whether it still regarded the
candidate as its most suitable representative.

The ministers, however, were, as before, strong enough in the House to carry their resolution.
But the Opposition returned to the charge, taking up an entirely different though equally general
position, "That, by the law of the land and the known law and usage of Parliament, no person
eligible by common right can be incapacitated by vote or resolution of this House, but by act
of Parliament only." It is remarkable that, in the debate which ensued, two members who successively
rose to the dignity of Lord Chancellor, Mr. Thurlow and Mr. Wedderburn, took different sides;
but nothing could shake the ministerial majority. The resolution was rejected. And when Lord
Rockingham proposed the same resolution in the House of Lords, though it was supported by all
the eloquence of Lord Chatham, he was beaten by a majority of more than two to one, and the
ministers even carried a resolution declaring "that any interference of the House of Lords
with any judgment of the House of Commons, in matters of election, would be a violation of
the constitutional rights of the Commons."

Even these decisive defeats of the Opposition did not finally terminate the struggle. The notoriety
which Wilkes had gained had answered his purpose to no slight extent. The City had adopted
his cause with continually increasing earnestness and effect. It had made him Sheriff, Alderman,
Lord Mayor, and had enriched him with the lucrative office of City Chamberlain; and, as one
of the City magistrates, he subsequently won the good opinion of many who had previously condemned
him, by his conduct during the Gordon Riots, in which he exerted his authority with great intrepidity
to check and punish the violence of the rioters. And when, in 1782, Lord Rockingham became,
for the second time, Prime-minister, he thought he might well avail himself of the favor he
had thus acquired, and of the accession to office of those whom the line which they had formerly
taken bound to countenance him, to bring forward a motion for the expunction of the resolutions
against him which had been passed in 1770. It was carried by a largo majority; and though this
was as evidently a party division as those had been by which he had been defeated twelve years
before, still, as the last resolution on the subject, it must be regarded as decisive of the
law and practice of Parliament, and as having settled the doctrine that expulsion does not
incapacitate a member who has been expelled from immediate re-election.[12]

