It was about this time our hero became sensible of the power of love; we mean of that sort
which has more of the mind than the body, and is tender, delicate and constant; the object
of which remains constantly fixed in the mind, and will not admit of any partner with it. 
It was in the town of Newcastle, so famous for its coal-works, which our hero visited out of
curiosity, appearing there undisguised and making a very genteel appearance, that he became
enamoured with the daughter of Mr. Gray, an eminent surgeon there.  We shall therefore content
ourselves by saying, this lady had charms sufficient to captivate the heart of any man not
unsusceptible of love; and they made so deep an impression upon our hero, that they wholly
effaced every object which before had created any desire in him, and never permitted any other
to raise them afterwards; and, wonderful to tell, we have after about thirty years enjoyment,
seen him lament her occasional absence almost with tears, and talk of her with all the fondness
of one who had been in love but three days.  Our hero tried all love’s soft persuasions with
his fair one in an honourable way; and, as his person was very engaging, and his appearance
genteel, he did not find her greatly averse to the proposals.  As he was aware that his being
of the community of the gipseys might prejudice her against him without examination, he passed
with her for the mate of a collier’s vessel, in which he was supported by Captain L---n of
Dartmouth, an old acquaintance of our hero’s, who then commanded a vessel lying at Newcastle,
and acknowledged him for his mate.  These assertions satisfied the young lady very well, and
she at length consented to exchange the tender care and love of a parent for that of a husband.
The reader may perhaps be surprised that she did not make any farther inquiries about him;
it is therefore necessary that we should inform him, that our hero had engaged on his side
a very eloquent and persuasive advocate or counsellor, for we know not which denomination most
properly belongs to him; one, though still beardless, existed as soon as the first woman was
created, and has had ever since, till within this last century, very great practice in the
business of uniting both sexes for life; but of late years a neighbouring counsellor, named
self-interest, has by underhand dealings, false insinuations, and mean suggestions, taken away
the greatest part of his business, so that he is seldom retained on either side.  Our hero,
however, engaged him in his service, and he pleaded so strongly for him in the young lady,
that he removed all her objections, and silenced all her scruples, and at last persuaded her
to leave her home and venture on board Captain L---n’s vessel with her lover; for, though this
counsellor, according to a very good picture of him drawn by a famous master, has more of the
wanton roguish smiles of a boy in his countenance, than the formality, wisdom, and gravity
of those counsellors whom thou hast perhaps seen in Westminster-hall; and never wore one of
those ponderous perukes which are so essential to the knowledge, wisdom, and eloquence of those
gentlemen; yet we are assured none of them ever equalled him in persuasive arguments, removing
of difficulties, and silencing of doubts; for he indeed differs in practice from most of the
counsellors we ever heard of: for, as these are apt to puzzle and perplex their clients by
their answers, and make intricate what was plain before, on the contrary, the gentleman we
are speaking of had a wonderful faculty of making the greatest difficulties plain and easy,
and always answered every objection and scruple to the entire satisfaction of his client.

The lover and his fair one being on board, they soon hoisted sail, and the very winds being
willing to favour these two happy lovers, they had an exceeding quick passage to Dartmouth,
where they landed.  Our hero being now no longer able to conceal his being a member of the
community of gipseys, after some previous introduction, declared it to the young lady, who
was not a little surprised and troubled at it; but the counsellor we have already spoken of
being near at hand, soon composed her mind, by suggesting to her the worthy family her lover
was sprung from; that the community of the gipseys was more happy, and less disreputable than
she imagined, that the person of her lover was quite amiable, and that he had good nature,
and love enough to make her happy in any condition.

As these suggestions entirely satisfied her, the lovers in a few days set out for Bath, where
they lawfully solemnized their nuptials with great gaiety and splendour, and were those two
persons whom many of the old slanders at Bath remembered for many years after to have made
such an eclat, but nobody could, at the time, conjecture who they were, which was the occasion
of much speculation and many false surmises.

We cannot conclude on this head, but with the deserved praises of our hero, from whose mouth
we have had repeated assurance, that, during their voyage to Dartmouth, and their journey from
thence to Bath, not the least indignity was offered to the innocence or modesty of his dear
Miss Gray.

Our lovers began to be at length weary of the same repeated rounds of pleasure at Bath, for
at that time the wit of man had not reached so high as the invention of that most charming,
entertaining, never-cloying diversion, called E, O, which seems to have been reserved among
the secrets of fate to do honour to the present age; for upon the nicest scrutiny, we are quite
convinced it is entirely new, and cannot find the least traces of its being borrowed from any
nation under the sun; for, though we have with great pains and labour inquired into all the
games and diversions of the ancients; though we have followed untutored Indians through all
their revels, and though we have accurately examined into the dull pleasures of the uncouth
Hottentots; yet in all these we find either some marks of ingenuity to exercise and refresh
the mind, or something of labour to invigorate the body;—we therefore could not avoid interrupting
our history, to do honour to this truly interesting and original game.

Our lovers having left Bath, visited next the city of Bristol, where they stayed some time,
and caused more speculation there than they had before done at Bath, and did as much damage
to that city as the famous Lucullus did at Rome, on his return from his victorious expedition;
we have some reason to think they first introduced the love of dress among those plain and
frugal citizens.  After some stay here, they made a tour through Somerset and Dorset to Hampshire,
where they paid a visit to an uncle of our hero’s living then at Dorchester, near Gosport,
who was a clergyman of distinguished merit and character; here they were received with great
politeness and hospitality, and abode a considerable time.

His uncle took this opportunity of making use of every argument to persuade him to quit the
community of the gipseys; but our hero was so thoroughly fixed in his principles, that even
that argument which oftentimes convinces patriots in a few hours, that all they said and did
before was wrong, that kings have a divine right to grind the faces of their subjects, and
that power which lays its iron hand on Nabal’s goodly vineyard, and says, “This is mine, for
so I will,” is preferable to heavenly liberty, which says to every man, “Possess what is thine
own, reap what thou hast sown, gather what thou hast planted, eat, drink, and lie down secure;”
even this powerful argument had no effect upon our hero; for, though his uncle made him very
lucrative offers for the present, and future promises of making him heir of all his possessions,
yet remembering his engagements with the gipseys, he rejected them all; and reflecting that
he had long lived useless to that community, he began to prepare for his departure from his
uncle’s, in order to make some incursions on the enemy.

To do this with more effect, he bethought himself of a new stratagem.  He therefore equipped
himself in a loose black gown, puts on a band, a large white peruke, and a broad-brimmed hat;—his
whole deportment was agreeable to his dress;—his pace was solemn and slow, his countenance
thoughtful and grave, his eyes turned on the ground—but now and then raised in seeming ejaculations
to heaven: in every look and action he betrayed his want, but at the same time seemed overwhelmed
with that shame which modest merit feels, when it is obliged to solicit the cold hand of charity;
this behaviour excited the curiosity of many gentlemen, clergy, &c., to inquire into the circumstances
of his misfortunes; but it was with difficulty they could engage him to relate them, it being
with much seeming reluctance that he acquainted them with his having exercised for many years
the sacred office of a clergyman at Aberistwith, a parish in Wales; but that the government
changing, he had preferred quitting his benefice, to taking an oath contrary to his principles
and conscience. This relation he accompanied with frequent sighs, deep marks of adoration of
the ways of Providence, and warm expressions of his firm trust and reliance in its goodness
and faithfulness, with high encomiums on the inward satisfaction of a good conscience.  When
he discoursed with any clergyman, or other person of literature, he would now and then introduce
some Latin or Greek sentences, that were applicable to what they were talking about, which
gave his hearers a high opinion of his learning; all this, and his thorough knowledge of those
persons whom it was proper to apply to, made this stratagem succeed even beyond his own expectations.
But now, hearing of a vessel bound to Philadelphia, on board of which were many Quakers, being
cast away on the coast of Ireland, he laid aside his gown, cassock, and band, clothes himself
in a plain suit, pulls the button from his hat, and flaps it on every side; his countenance
was now demure, his language unadorned with any flowers of speech, and the words You and Sir,
he seemed to hold in abomination; his hat was moved to none, for, though under misfortunes,
he would not think of bowing the knee to Baal.

With these qualifications, he addressed himself to persons of the denomination of Quakers with
great success (for indeed it is to be wished that all other sects would imitate them in their
readiness to relieve their brethren); and hearing that there was to be a great meeting of them
from all parts, at a place called Thorncombe, in Devonshire, he makes the best of his way there;
and with a demure look and modest assurance enters the assembly, where, making his case known,
and satisfying them, by his behaviour, of his being one of their sect, they made a very considerable
subscription for his relief.

So active was the mind of our hero, that he was never more happy than when engaged in some
adventure or other; therefore, when he had no opportunity of putting any great stratagem in
execution, he would amuse himself with those which did not require so great a share of art
and ingenuity.  Whenever he heard of any melancholy accident by fire; he immediately repaired
to the place where it happened, and there, remarking very accurately the spot, inquired into
the cause of it, and getting an exact information of the trades, characters, families, and
circumstances of the unhappy sufferers, he immediately assumed the person and name of one of
them; and burning some part of his coat and hat, as an ocular demonstration of his narrow escape,
he made the best of his way to places at some distance, and there passed for one who had been
burnt out; and to gain credit, showed a paper signed with the names of several gentlemen in
the neighbourhood of the place where the fire happened, recommending him as an honest unhappy
sufferer, by which he got considerable sums.

Under this character, he had once the boldness to address Justice Hall, of Exmouth, in Devon,
the terror and professed enemy of every order of the gipseys; however, our hero managed so
artfully, though he went through a strict examination, that he at last convinced his worship
that he was an honest miller, whose house, mill, and whole substance had been consumed by fire,
occasioned by the negligence of an apprentice boy, and was accordingly relieved by the justice.

Coming one day to Squire Portman’s, at Brinson, near Blandford, in the character of a famous
rat-catcher, with a hairy cap upon his head, a buff girdle about his waist, and a tame rat
in a little box by his side, he boldly marched up to the house in this disguise, though his
person was well known by the family, and meeting in the court with Mr. Portman, the Rev. Mr.
Bryant, and several other gentlemen whom he well knew, but did not suspect he should be known
by them, he accosted them as a rat-catcher, asking if their Honours had any rats to kill. 
Do you understand your business well? replied Mr. Portman.  Yes, and please your honour; I
have followed it many years, and have been employed in his majesty’s yards and ships.  Well,
go in and get something to eat; and after dinner we will try your abilities.

Our hero was accordingly placed at the second table to dinner, and very handsomely entertained;
after which he was called into a great parlour, among a large company of gentlemen and ladies.
Well, honest Mr. Rat-catcher, said Mr. Portman, can you lay any schemes to kill the rats, without
hurting my dogs?  Yes, boldly replied Mr. Carew, I shall lay it where even cats can’t climb
to reach it.  And what countryman are you, pray?  A Devonshire man, please your honour.  What
may be your name?  Our hero now perceiving, by the smiles and whispering of the gentlemen,
that he was known, replied very composedly, B, a, m, p, f, y, l, d, e, M, o, o, r, e, C, a,
r, e, w.  This occasioned a good deal of mirth; and Mr. Carew asking what scabby sheep had
infected the whole flock? was told, Parson Bryant was the man who had discovered him, none
of the other gentlemen knowing him under his disguise: upon which, turning to the parson, he
asked him if he had forgotten good king Charles’s rules?  Mr. Pleydell, of St. Andrew’s, Milbourn,
expressed a pleasure at seeing the famous Mr. Bampfylde Moore Carew, saying he had never seen
him before. Yes, but you have, replied he, and gave me a suit of clothes.  Mr. Pleydell testified
some surprise at this, and desired to know when it was.  Mr. Carew asked him if he did not
remember a poor wretch met him one day at his stable-door with an old stocking round his head
instead of a cap, and a woman’s old ragged mantle on his shoulders, no shirt on his back, nor
stockings to his legs, and scarce any shoes on his feet; and that he asked him if he was mad?
to which he replied No; but a poor unfortunate man, cast away on the coast, and taken up, with
eight others, by a Frenchman, the rest of the crew, sixteen in number, being all drowned; and
that Mr. Pleydell having asked what countryman he was, gave him a guinea and a suit of clothes.
Mr. Pleydell said he well remembered such a poor object.  Well, replied our hero, that object
was no other than the rat-catcher now before you: at which all the company laughed very heartily.
Well, said Mr. Pleydell, I will bet a guinea I shall know you again, come in what shape you
will: the same said Mr. Seymour, of Handford.  Some of the company asserting to the contrary
of this, they desired our hero to try his ingenuity upon them, and then to discover himself,
to convince them of it.

This being agreed upon, and having received a handsome contribution of this company, he took
his leave; but Parson Bryant followed him out, and acquainted him that the same company, and
many more, would be at Mr. Pleydell’s on such a day, and advised him to make use of that opportunity
to deceive them all together; which our hero soon resolved to do.  He therefore revolved in
his mind what stratagem was most likely to succeed: at length he fixed upon one, which he thought
could not fail answering his purpose.

When the day was come, the barber was called in to make his face as smooth as his art could
do, and a woman’s gown and other female accoutrements of the largest size were provided for
him.  Having jumped into his petticoats, pinned a large dowde under his chin, and put a high-crowned
hat on his head, he made a figure so comical that even Hogarth’s humour can scarcely parallel;
yet our hero thought himself of something else to render his disguise more impenetrable: he
therefore borrowed a little hump-backed child of a tinker, and two more of some others of his
community.  There remained now only in what situation to place the children, and it was quickly
resolved to tie two to his back, and to take the other in his arms.

Thus accoutred, and thus hung with helpless infants, he marched forwards for Mr. Pleydell’s;
coming up to the door, he put his hand behind him, and pinched one of the children, which set
it a roaring; this gave the alarm to the dogs, so that between their barking and the child’s
crying, the whole family was sufficiently disturbed.  Out came the maid, crying, Carry away
the children, old woman, they disturb the ladies.  God bless their ladyships, I am the poor
unfortunate grandmother to these poor helpless infants, whose dear mother and all they had
was burnt at the dreadful fire at Kirton, and hope the good ladies, for God’s sake, will bestow
something on the poor famishing starving infants.  This moving story was accompanied with tears;
upon which, the maid ran in to acquaint the ladies with this melancholy tale, while the good
grandmother kept pinching one or other of the children, that they might play their parts to
greater perfection; the maid soon returned with a half crown from the ladies, and some good
broth, which he went into the court-yard to eat, (understanding the gentlemen were not in the
house,) and got one of the under-servants, whom he met, to give some to the children on his
back. He had not long been there, before the gentlemen all came in together, who accosted him
with, Where did you come from, my good old woman?  From Kirton, please your honours, where
the poor unfortunate mother of these helpless babes was burnt to death by the flames, and all
they had consumed.

D---n you, said one of the gentlemen, (who is well known by the name of Worthy Sir, and was
particularly acquainted with Mr. Carew,) there has been more money collected for Kirton than
ever Kirton was worth; however, he gave this good old grandmother a shilling, the other gentlemen
likewise relieved her, commiserating her age, and her burden of so many helpless infants; not
one of them discovering our hero in the old woman, who received their alms very thankfully,
and pretended to go away.

