BRICKS WITHOUT STRAW

A Novel

BY

ALBION W. TOURGEE, LL.D.,

LATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA

THIS VOLUME I GRATEFULLY DEDICATE TO

My Wife;

TO WHOSE UNFLINCHING COURAGE, UNFALTERING FAITH, UNFAILING CHEER, AND STEADFAST LOVE, I OWE
MORE THAN MANY VOLUMES MIGHT DECLARE.

TRANSLATION:

[From an ancient Egyptian Papyrus-Roll, recently discovered.]

It came to pass that when Pharaoh had made an end of giving commandment that the children of
Israel should deliver the daily tale of bricks, but should not be furnished with any straw
wherewith to make them, but should instead go into the fields and gather such stubble as might
be left therein, that Neoncapos, the king's jester, laughed.

And when he was asked whereat he laughed, he answered, At the king's order.

And thereupon he laughed the more.

Then was Pharaoh, the king, exceeding wroth, and he gave commandment that an owl be given to
Neoncapos, the king's jester, and that he be set forth without the gate of the king's palace,
and that he be forbidden to return, or to speak to any in all the land, save only unto the
owl which had been given him, until such time as the bird should answer and tell him what he
should say.

Then they that stood about the king, and all who saw Neoncapos, cried out, What a fool's errand
is this! So that the saying remains even unto this day.

Nevertheless, upon the next day came Neoncapos again into the presence of Pharaoh, the king.

Then was Pharaoh greatly astonished, and he said, How is this? Hath the bird spoken?

And Neoncapos, the king's jester, bowed himself  unto the earth, and said, He hath, my lord.

Then was Pharaoh, the king, filled with amazement,  and said, Tell me what he hath said unto thee.

And Neoncapos raised himself before the king, and answered him, and said:

As I went out upon the errand whereunto thou hadst sent me forth, I remembered thy commandment
to obey it. And I spake only unto the bird which thou gavest me, and said unto him:

There was a certain great king which held a people in bondage, and set over them task-masters,
and required of them all the bricks that they could make, man for man, and day by day;

For the king was in great haste seeking to build a palace which should be greater and nobler
than any in the world, and should remain to himself  and his children a testimony of his glory
forever.

And it came to pass, at length, that the king gave commandment that no more straw should be
given unto them that made the bricks, but that they should still deliver the tale which had
been aforetime required of them.

And thereupon the king's jester laughed.

Because he said to himself, If the laborers have not straw wherewith to attemper the clay,
but only stubble and chaff gathered from the fields, will not the bricks be ill-made and lack
strength and symmetry of form, so that the wall made thereof will not be true and strong, or
fitly joined together?    For the lack of a little straw it may be that the palace of the great
king will fall upon him and all his people that dwell therein. Thereupon the king was wroth
with his fool, and his countenance was changed, and he spake harshly unto him, and--

It matters not what thou saidst unto the bird, said the king. What did the bird say unto thee?

The bird, said Neoncapos, bowing himself low before the king, the bird, my lord, looked at
me in great amaze, and cried again and again, in an exceeding loud voice: Who! Who-o! Who-o-o!

Then was Pharaoh exceeding wroth, and his anger burned within him, and he commanded that the
fool should be taken and bound with cords, and cast into prison, while he should consider of
a fit punishment for his impudent words.

NOTE.-A script attached to this manuscript, evidently of later date, informs us that the fool
escaped the penalty of his folly by the disaster at the Red Sea.

CONTENTS

      I. TRI-NOMINATE
     II. THE FONT
    III. THE JUNONIAN RITE
     IV. MARS MEDDLES
      V. NUNC PRO TUNC
     VI. THE TOGA VIRILIS
    VII. DAMON AND PYTHIAS
   VIII. A FRIENDLY PROLOGUE
     IX. A BRUISED REED
      X. AN EXPRESS TRUST
     XI. RED WING
    XII. ON THE WAY AY TO JERICHO
   XIII. NEGOTIATING A TREATY
    XIV. BORN OF THE STORM
     XV. TO HIM AND HIS HEIRS FOREVER
    XVI. A CHILD OF THE HILLS
   XVII. GOOD-MORROW AND FAREWELL
  XVIII. "PRIME WRAPPERS,"
    XIX. THE SHADOW OF THE FLAG,
     XX. PHANTASMAGORIA,
    XXI. A CHILD-MAN
   XXII. HOW THE FALLOW WAS SEEDED
  XXIII. AN OFFERING OF FIRST-FRUITS
   XXIV. A BLACK DBMOCRITUS
    XXV. A DOUBLE-HEADED ARGUMENT
   XXVI. TAKEN AT HIS WORD
  XXVII. MOSES IN THE SUNSHINE
 XXVIII. IN THE PATH OF THE STORM
   XXIX. LIKE AND UNLIKE
    XXX. AN UNBIDDEN GUEST
   XXXI. A LIFE FOR A LIFE
  XXXII. A VOICE FROM THE DARKNESS
 XXXIII. A DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
  XXXIV. THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW
   XXXV. A PARTICULAR TENANCY LAPSES
  XXXVI. THE BEACON-LIGHT OF LOVE
 XXXVII. THE "BEST FRIENDS" REVEAL THEMSELVES
XXXVIII. "THE ROSE ABOVE THE MOULD,"
  XXXIX. WHAT THE MIST HID
     XL. DAWNING
    XLI. Q. E. D.
   XLII. THROUGH A CLOUD-RIFT
  XLIII. A GLAD GOOD-BY
   XLIV. PUTTING THIS AND THAT TOGETHER
    XLV. ANOTHER OX GORED
   XLVI. BACKWARD AND FORWARD
  XLVII. BREASTING THE TORRENT
 XLVIII. THE PRICE OF HONOR
   XLIX. HIGHLY RESOLVED
      L. FACE ANSWERETH UNTO FACE
     LI. HOW SLEEP THE BRAVE?
    LII. REDEEMED OUT OF THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE
   LIII. IN THE CYCLONE
    LIV. A BOLT OUT OF THE CLOUD
     LV. AN UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER
    LVI. SOME OLD LETTERS
   LVII. A SWEET AND BITTER FRUITAGE
  LVIII. COMING TO THE FRONT
    LIX. THE SHUTTLECOCK OF FATE
     LX. THE EXODIAN
    LXI. WHAT SHALL THE END BE?
   LXII. How?

BRICKS WITHOUT STRAW.

CHAPTER I.

TRI-NOMINATE.

"Wal, I 'clar, now, jes de quarest ting ob 'bout all dis matter o' freedom is de way dat it
sloshes roun' de names 'mong us cullud folks. H'yer I lib ober on de Hyco twenty year er mo'--nobody
but ole Marse Potem an' de Lor', an' p'raps de Debble beside, know 'zackly how long it mout
hev been--an' didn't hev but one name in all dat yer time. An' I didn't hev no use for no mo'
neither, kase dat wuz de one ole Mahs'r gib me hisself, an' nobody on de libbin' yairth nebber
hed no sech name afo' an' nebber like to agin. Dat wuz allers de way ub ole Mahs'r's names.
Dey used ter say dat he an' de Debble made 'em up togedder while he wuz dribin' roun' in dat
ole gig 'twixt de diff'ent plantations--on de Dan an' de Ro'noke, an' all 'bout whar de ole
cuss could fine a piece o' cheap lan", dat would do ter raise niggers on an' pay for bringin'
up, at de same time. He was a powerful smart man in his day, wuz ole Kunnel Potem Desmit; but
he speshully did beat anythin' a findin' names fer niggers. I reckon now, ef he'd 'a hed forty
thousan' cullud folks, men an' wimmen, dar wouldn't ha' been no two on 'em hevin' de same name.
Dat's what folks used ter say 'bout him, ennyhow. Dey sed he used ter say ez how he wasn't
gwine ter hey his niggers mixed up wid nobody else's namin', an' he wouldn't no mo' 'low ob
one black feller callin' ob anudder  by enny nickname ner nothin' ub dat kine, on one o' his
plantations, dan he would ob his takin' a mule, nary bit. Dey du say dat when he used ter buy
a boy er gal de berry fust ting he wuz gwine ter du wuz jes ter hev 'em up an' gib 'em a new
name, out 'n out, an' a clean suit ob close ter 'member it by; an' den, jes by way ob a little
'freshment, he used ter make de oberseer gib 'em ten er twenty good licks, jes ter make sure
ob der fergittin' de ole un dat dey'd hed afo'. Dat's what my mammy sed, an' she allers 'clar'd
dat tow'rd de las' she nebber could 'member what she was at de fus' no more'n ef she hed'nt
been de same gal.

"All he wanted ter know 'bout a nigger wuz jes his name, an' dey say he could tell straight
away when an' whar he wuz born, whar he'd done lived, an' all 'bout him.  He war a powerful
man in der way ob names, shore.  Some on 'em wuz right quare, but den agin mos' all on 'em
wuz right good, an' it war powerful handy hevin' no two on 'em alike. I've heard tell dat a
heap o' folks wuz a takin' up wid his notion, an' I reckon dat ef de s'rrender hed only stood
off long 'nuff dar wouldn't 'a been nary two niggers in de whole State hevin' de same names.
Dat would hev been handy, all roun'!

"When dat come, though, old Mahs'r's plan warn't nowhar. Lor' bress my soul, how de names did
come a-brilin' roun'! I'd done got kinder used ter mine, hevin' bed it so long an' nebber knowin'
myself by any udder, so't I didn't like ter change. 'Sides dat, I couldn't see no use. I'd
allers got 'long well 'nuff wid it--all on'y jes once, an' dat ar wuz so long ago I'd nigh
about  forgot it. Dat showed what a debblish cute plan dat uv ole Mahs'r's was, though.

"Lemme see, dat er wuz de fus er secon' year atter I wuz a plow-boy. Hit wuz right in de height
ob de season, an' Marse War'--dat was de oberseer--he sent me to der Cou't House ob an ebenin'
to do some sort ob arrant for him. When I was a comin' home, jes about an hour ob sun, I rides
up wid a sort o' hard-favored man in a gig, an' he looks at me an' at de hoss, when I goes
ter ride by, mighty sharp like; an' fust I knows he axes me my name; an' I tole him. An' den
he axes whar I lib; an' I tole him, "On de Knapp-o'-Reeds plantation." Den he say,

"'Who you b'long to, ennyhow, boy?'

"An' I tole him 'Ole Marse Potem Desmit, sah'--jes so like.

"Den he sez 'Who's a oberseein' dar now?'

"An' I sez, 'Marse Si War', sah?'

"Den he sez, 'An' how do all de ban's on Knapp-o Reeds git 'long wid ole Marse Potem an' Marse
Si War'?'

"An' I sez, 'Oh, we gits 'long tol'able well wid Marse War', sah.'

"An' he sez, 'How yer likes old Marse Potem?'

"An' I sez, jes fool like, 'We don't like him at all, sah.'

"An' he sez, 'Why?'

"An' I sez, 'Dunno sah.'

"An' he sez, 'Don't he feed?'

"An' I sez, 'Tol'able, I spose.'

"An' he sez, 'Whip much?'

"An' I sez, 'Mighty little, sah.'

"An' he sez, 'Work hard?'

"An' I sez, 'Yes, moderate, sah.'   "An' he sez, 'Eber seed him?'

"An' I sez, 'Not ez I knows on, sah.'

"An' he sez, 'What for don't yer like him, den?'

"An' I sez, 'Dunno, on'y jes' kase he's sech a gran' rascal.'

"Den he larf fit ter kill, an' say, 'Dat's so, dat's so, boy.' Den he take out his pencil an'
write a word er two on a slip o' paper an' say,

"'H'yer, boy, yer gibs dat ter Marse Si War', soon ez yer gits home. D'yer heah?'

"I tole him, 'Yes, sah,' an' comes on home an' gibs dat ter Marse Si. Quick ez he look at it
he say, 'Whar you git dat, boy? 'An' when I tole him he sez, 'You know who dat is? Dat's old
Potem Desmit! What you say to him, you little fool?'

"Den I tell Marse War' all 'bout it, an' he lay down in de yard an' larf fit ter kill. All
de same he gib me twenty licks 'cordin' ter de orders on dat little dam bit o' paper. An' I
nebber tink o' dat widout cussin', sence.

"Dat ar, now am de only time I ebber fault my name.  Now what I want ter change it fer, er
what I want ob enny mo'? I don't want 'em. An' I tell 'em so, ebbery time too, but dey 'jes
fo'ce em on me like, an' what'll I do'bout it, I dunno. H'yer I'se got--lemme see--one--two--tree!
Fo' God, I don' know how many names I hez got! I'm dod-dinged now ef I know who I be ennyhow.
Ef ennybody ax me I'd jes hev ter go back ter ole Mahs'r's name an' stop, kase I swar I wouldn't
know which ob de udders ter pick an' chuse from.

"I specs its all 'long o' freedom, though I can't see why a free nigger needs enny mo' name
dan the same one hed in ole slave times. Mus' be, though. I mind now dat all de pore white
folks hez got some two tree names, but I allus thought dat wuz 'coz dey hedn't nuffin' else
ter call dere can. Must be a free feller needs mo' name, somehow. Ef I keep on I reckon I'll
git enuff atter a while. H'yer it's gwine on two year only sence de s'rrender, an' I'se got
tree ob 'em sartain!"

The speaker was a colored man, standing before his log-house in the evening of a day in June.
His wife was the only listener to the monologue. He had been examining a paper which was sealed
and stamped with official formality, and which had started him upon the train of thought he
had pursued. The question he was trying in vain to answer was only the simplest and easiest
of the thousand strange queries which freedom had so recently propounded to him and his race.

CHAPTER II.

THE FONT.

Knapp-of-reeds was the name of a plantation which was one of the numerous possessions of P.
Desmit, Colonel and Esquire, of the county of Horsford, in the northernmost of those States
which good Queen Caroline was fortunate enough to have designated as memorials of her existence.
The plantation was just upon that wavy line which separates the cotton region of the east from
the tobacco belt that sweeps down the pleasant ranges of the Piedmont region, east of the Blue
Appalachians.  Or, to speak more correctly, the plantation was in that indeterminate belt which
neither of the great staples could claim exclusively as its own--that delectable land where
every conceivable product of the temperate zone  grows, if not in its rankest luxuriance, at
least in perfection  and abundance. Tobacco on the hillsides, corn upon the wide bottoms, cotton
on the gray uplands, and wheat, oats, fruits, and grasses everywhere. Five hundred acres of
hill and bottom, forest and field, with what was termed the Island, consisting of a hundred
more, which had never been overflowed in the century of cultivation it had known, constituted
a snug and valuable plantation.  It had been the seat of an old family once, but extravagant
living and neglect of its resources had compelled its sale, and it had passed into the hands
of its present owner, of whose vast possessions it formed an insignificant part.

Colonel Desmit was one of the men who applied purely business principles to the opportunities
which the South afforded in the olden time, following everything to its logical conclusion,
and measuring every opportunity by its money value. He was not of an ancient family.  Indeed,
the paternal line stopped short with his own father, and the maternal one could only show one
more link, and then became lost in malodorous tradition which hung about an old mud-daubed
log-cabin on the most poverty-stricken portion of Nubbin Ridge.

There was a rumor that the father had a left-handed kinship with the Brutons, a family of great
note in the public annals of the State. He certainly showed qualities which tended to confirm
this tradition, and abilities which entitled him to be considered the peer of the best of that
family, whose later generations were by no means the equals of former ones. Untiring and unscrupulous,
Mr. Peter Smith rose from the position of a nameless son of an unknown father, to be as overseer
for one of the wealthiest proprietors of that region, and finally, by a not unusual turn of
fortune's wheel, became the owner of a large part of his employer's estates. Thrifty in all
things, he married in middle life, so well as nearly to double the fortune then acquired, and
before his death had become one of the wealthiest men in his county. He was always hampered
by a lack of education. He could read little and write less. In his later days he was appointed
a Justice of the Peace, and was chosen one of the County Court, or "Court of Pleas and Quarter
Sessions," as it was technically called. These honors were so pleasant to him that he determined
to give his only son a name which should commemorate this event. The boy was, therefore, christened
after the opening words of his commission of the peace, and grew to manhood bearing the name
Potestatem Dedimus [Footnote: Potestatem dedimus: "We give thee power, etc." The initial words
of the clause conferring jurisdiction upon officers, in the old forms of judicial commissions.
This name is fact, not fancy.] Smith. This son was educated with care--the shrewd father feeling
his own need--but was  early instilled with his father's greed for gain, and the necessity
for unusual exertion if he would achieve equal position with the old families who were to be
his rivals.

The young man proved a worthy disciple of his father.  He married, it is true, without enhancing
his fortune; but he secured what was worth almost as much for the promotion of his purposes
as if he had doubled his belongings. Aware of the ill-effects of so recent a bar sinister in
his armorial bearings, he sought in marriage Miss Bertha Bellamy, of Belleville, in the State
of Virginia,  who united in her azure veins at least a few drops of the blood of all the first
families of that fine-bred aristocracy, from Pocahontas's days until her own. The role of the
gentleman had been too much for the male line of the Bellamys to sustain. Horses and hounds
and cards and high living had gradually eaten down their once magnificent patrimony, until
pride and good blood and poverty were the only dowry that the females could command. Miss Bertha,
having already arrived at the age of discretion, found that to match this against the wealth
of young Potestatem Dedimus Smith was as well as she could hope to do, and accepted him upon
condition  that the vulgar Smith should be changed to some less democratic name.

The one paternal and two maternal ancestors had not made the very common surname peculiarly
sacred to the young man, so the point was yielded; and by considerable persistency on the part
of the young wife, "P. D.  SMITH" was transformed without much trouble into "P. DESMIT," before
the administrator had concluded the settlement of his father's estate.

The vigor with which the young man devoted himself to affairs and the remarkable success which
soon began to attend his exertions diverted attention from the name, and before he had reached
middle life he was known over almost half the State as "Colonel Desmit," "Old Desmit," or "Potem
Desmit," according to the degree of familiarity or respect desired to be displayed.  Hardly
anybody remembered and none alluded to the fact that the millionaire of Horsford was only two
removes  from old Sal Smith of Nubbin Ridge. On the other hand the rumor that he was in some
mysterious manner remotely akin to the Brutons was industriously circulated by the younger
members of that high-bred house, and even "the Judge," who was of about the same age as Colonel
Desmit, had been heard more than once to call him "Cousin." These things affected Colonel Desmit
but little. He had set himself to improve his father's teachings and grow rich. He seemed to
have the true Midas touch. He added acre to acre, slave to slave, business to business, until
his possessions were scattered from the mountains to the sea, and especially extended on both
sides the border line in the Piedmont region where he had been bred. It embraced every form
of business known to the community of which he was a part, from the cattle ranges of the extreme
west to the fisheries of the farthest east. He made his possessions a sort of self-supporting
commonwealth in themselves.  The cotton which he grew on his eastern farms was manufactured
at his own factory, and distributed to his various plantations to be made into clothing for
his slaves.  Wheat and corn and meat, raised upon some of his plantations, supplied others
devoted to non-edible staples.  The tobacco grown on the Hyco and other plantations in that
belt was manufactured at his own establishment, supplied his eastern laborers and those which
wrought in the pine woods to the southward at the production of naval supplies. He had realized
the dream of his own life and the aspiration of his father, the overseer, and had become one
of the wealthiest men in the State. But he attended to all this himself. Every overseer knew
that he was liable any day or night to receive a visit from the untiring owner of all this
wealth, who would require an instant accounting for every bit of the property under his charge.
Not only the presence and condition of every slave, mule, horse or other piece of stock must
be accounted for, but the manner of its employment stated.  He was an inflexible disciplinarian,
who gave few orders, hated instructions, and only asked results. It was his custom to place
an agent in charge of a business without directions, except to make it pay. His only care was
to see that his property did not depreciate, and that the course adopted by the agent was one
likely to produce good results. So long as this was the case he was satisfied.  He never interfered,
made no suggestions, found no fault. As soon as he became dissatisfied the agent was removed
and another substituted. This was done without words or controversy, and it was a well-known
rule that a man once discharged from such a trust could never enter his employ again. For an
overseer to be dismissed by Colonel Desmit was to forfeit all chance for employment in that
region, since it was looked upon as a certificate either of incapacity or untrustworthiness.

Colonel Desmit was especially careful in regard to his slaves. His father had early shown him
that no branch of business was, or could be, half so profitable as the rearing of slaves for
market.

"A healthy slave woman," the thrifty father had been accustomed to say, "will yield a thousand
per cent upon her value, while she needs less care and involves less risk than any other species
of property." The son, with a broader knowledge, had carried his father's instructions to more
accurate and scientific results. He found that the segregation of large numbers of slaves upon
a single plantation was not favorable either to the most rapid multiplication or economy of
sustenance. He had carefully determined the fact that plantations of moderate extent, upon
the high, well-watered uplands of the Piedmont belt, were the most advantageous locations that
could be found for the rearing of slaves. Such plantations, largely worked by female slaves,
could be made to return a small profit on the entire investment, without at all taking into
account the increase of the human stock.  This was, therefore, so much added profit. From careful
study and observation he had deduced a specific formulary by which he measured the rate of
gain. With a well-selected force, two thirds of which should be females, he calculated that
with proper care such plantations could be made to pay, year by year, an interest of five per
cent on the first cost, and, in addition, double the value of the working force every eight
years. This conclusion he had arrived at from scientific study of the rates of mortality and
increase, and in settling upon it he had cautiously left a large margin for contingencies.
He was not accustomed to talk about his business, but when questioned as to his uniform success
and remarkable prosperity, always attributed it to a system which he had inexorably followed,
and which had never failed to return to him at least twenty per cent. per annum upon every
dollar he had invested.

So confident was he in regard to the success of this plan that he became a large but systematic
borrower of money at the legal rate of six per cent, taking care that his maturing liabilities
should, at no time, exceed a certain proportion of his available estate. By this means his
wealth increased with marvelous rapidity.

The success of his system depended, however, entirely upon the care bestowed upon his slaves.
They were never neglected. Though he had so many that of hundreds of them he did not know even
the faces, he gave the closest attention to their hygienic condition, especially that of the
women, who were encouraged by every means to bear children. It was a sure passport to favor
with the master and the overseer: tasks were lightened; more abundant food provided; greater
liberty enjoyed; and on the birth of a child a present of some sort was certain to be given
the mother.

The one book which Colonel Desmit never permitted anybody else to keep or see was the register
of his slaves.  He had invented for himself an elaborate system by which in a moment he could
ascertain every element of the value of each of his more than a thousand slaves at the date
of his last visitation or report. When an overseer was put in charge of a plantation he was
given a list of the slaves assigned to it, by name and number, and was required to report every
month the condition of each slave during the month previous, as to health and temper, and also
the labor in which the same had been employed each day. It was only as to the condition of
the slaves that the owner gave explicit directions to his head-men.  "Mighty few people know
how to take care of a nigger," he was wont to say; and as he made the race a study and looked
to them for his profits, he was attentive to their condition.

Among the requirements of his system was one that each slave born upon his plantations should
be named only by himself; and this was done only on personal inspection. Upon a visit to a
plantation, therefore, one of his special duties always was to inspect, name, and register
all slave children who had been born to his estate since his previous visitation.

It was in the summer of 1840 that a traveler drove into the grove in front of the house at
Knapp-of-Reeds, in the middle of a June afternoon, and uttered the usual halloo. He was answered
after a moment's delay by a colored woman, who came out from the kitchen and exclaimed,

"Who's dah?"

It was evident at once that visitors were not frequent at Knapp-of-Reeds.

"Where's Mr. Ware?" asked the stranger.

"He's done gone out in de new-ground terbacker, long wid de han's," answered the woman.

"Where is the new-ground this year?" repeated the questioner. "Jes' down on the p'int 'twixt
de branch an' de Hyco," she replied.

"Anybody you can send for him?"

"Wal, thar mout be some shaver dat's big enough to go, but Marse War's dat keerful ter please
Marse Desmit dat he takes 'em all outen de field afore dey can well toddle," said the woman
doubtfully.

"Well, come and take my horse," said he, as he began to descend from his gig, "and send for
Mr. Ware to come up at once."

The woman came forward doubtfully and took the horse by the bit, while the traveler alighted.
No sooner did he turn fully toward her than her face lighted up with a smile, and she said,

"Wal, dar, ef dat a'n't Marse Desmit hisself, I do believe! How d'ye do, Mahs'r?" and the woman
dropped a courtesy.

"I'm very well, thank ye, Lorency, an' glad to see you looking so peart," he responded pleasantly.
"How's Mr. Ware and the people? All well, I hope."

"All tol'able, Mahs'r, thank ye."

"Well, tie the horse, and get me some dinner, gal. I haven't eaten since I left home."

"La sakes!" said the woman in a tone of commiseration, though she had no idea whether it was
twenty or forty miles he had driven since his breakfast.

The man who sat upon the porch and waited for the coming of Mr. Silas Ware, his overseer, was
in the prime of life, of florid complexion, rugged habit, short stubbly hair--thick and bristling,
that stood close and even on his round, heavy head from a little way above the beetling brows
well down upon the bull-like neck which joined but hardly separated the massive head and herculean
trunk. This hair, now almost white, had been a yellowish red, a hue which still showed in the
eyebrows and in the stiff beard which was allowed to grow beneath the angle of his massive
jaw, the rest of his face being clean shaven. The eyes were deep-sunk and of a clear, cold
blue. His mouth broad, with firm, solid lips. Dogged resolution, unconquerable will, cold-blooded
selfishness, and a keen hog-cunning showed in his face, while his short, stout form--massive
but not fleshy--betrayed a capacity to endure fatigue which few men could rival.

"How d'ye, Mr. Ware?" he said as that worthy came striding in from the new-ground nervously
chewing a mouthful of home-made twist, which he had replenished several times since leaving
the field, without taking the precaution to provide stowage for the quantity he was taking aboard.

"How d'ye, Colonel?" said Ware uneasily.

"Reckon you hardly expected me to day?" continued Desmit, watching him closely. "No, I dare
say not. They hardly ever do. Fact is, I rarely ever know myself long enough before to send word."

He laughed heartily, for his propensity for dropping in unawares upon his agents was so well
known that he enjoyed their confusion almost as much as he valued the surprise as a means of
ascertaining their attention to his interests. Ware was one of his most trusted lieutenants,
however, and everything that he had ever seen or heard satisfied him of the man's faithfulness.
So he made haste to relieve him from embarrassment, for the tall, awkward, shambling fellow
was perfectly overwhelmed.

"It's a long time since I've been to see you, Mr. Ware--almost a year. There's mighty few men
I'd let run a plantation that long without looking after them. Your reports have been very
correct, and the returns of your work very satisfactory. I hope the stock and hands are in
good condition?"

"I must say, Colonel Desmit," responded Ware, gathering confidence, "though perhaps I oughtn't
ter say it myself, that I've never seen 'em lookin' better. 'Pears like everything hez been
jest about ez favorable fer hands an' stock ez one could wish. The spring's work didn't seem
ter worry the stock a mite, an' when the new feed come on there was plenty on't, an' the very
best quality.  So they shed off ez fine ez ever you see ennything in yer life, an' hev jest
been a doin' the work in the crop without turnin' a hair."

"Glad to hear it, Mr. Ware," said Desmit encouragingly.

"And the hands," continued Ware, "have jest been in prime condition. We lost Horion, as I reported
to you in--lemme see, February, I reckon--along o' rheumatism which he done cotch a runnin'
away from that Navigation Company that you told me to send him to work for."

"Yes, I know. You told him to come home if they took him into Virginia, as I directed, I suppose."

"Certainly, sir," said Ware; "an' ez near ez I can learn they took him off way down below Weldon
somewheres, an' he lit out to come home jest at the time of the February  'fresh.' He had to
steal his way afoot, and was might'ly used up when he got here, and died some little time afterward."

"Yes. The company will have to pay a good price for him. Wasn't a better nor sounder nigger
on the river," said Desmit.

"That ther warn't," replied Ware. "The rest has all been well. Lorency had a bad time over
her baby, but she's 'round again as peart as ever."   "So I see. And the crops?"

"The best I've ever seed sence I've been here, Colonel.  Never had such a stand of terbacker,
and the corn looks prime. Knapp-of-Reeds has been doin' better 'n' better ever sence I've knowed
it; but she's jest outdoin' herself this year."

"Haven't you got anything to drink, Ware?"

"I beg your parding, Colonel; I was that flustered I done forgot my manners altogether," said
Ware apologetically.  "I hev got a drap of apple that they say is right good for this region,
and a trifle of corn that ain't nothing to brag on, though it does for the country right well."

Ware set out the liquor with a bowl of sugar from his sideboard as he spoke, and called to
the kitchen for a glass and water.

"That makes me think," said Desmit. "Here, you Lorency, bring me that portmanty from the gig."

When it was brought he unlocked it and took out a bottle, which he first held up to the light
and gazed tenderly through, then drew the cork and smelled of its contents, shook his head
knowingly, and then handed it to Ware, who went through the same performance very solemnly.

"Here, gal," said Desmit sharply, "bring us another tumbler. Now, Mr. Ware," said he unctuously
when it had been brought, "allow me, sir, to offer you some brandy which is thirty-five years
old--pure French brandy, sir. Put it in my portmanty specially for you, and like to have forgot
it at the last. Just try it, man."

Ware poured himself a dram, and swallowed it with a gravity which would have done honor to
a more solemn occasion, after bowing low to his principal and saying earnestly,   "Colonel,
your very good health."

"And now," said Desmit, "have the hands and stock brought up while I eat my dinner, if you
please. I have a smart bit of travel before me yet to-day."

The overseer's horn was at Ware's lips in a moment, and before the master had finished his
dinner every man, woman, and child on the plantation was in the yard, and every mule and horse
was in the barn-lot ready to be brought out for his inspection.

The great man sat on the back porch, and, calling up the slaves one by one, addressed some
remark to each, gave every elder a quarter and every youngster a dime, until he came to the
women. The first of these was Lorency, the strapping cook, who had improved the time since
her master's coming to make herself gay with her newest gown and a flaming new turban. She
came forward pertly, with a young babe upon her arm.

"Well, Lorency, Mr. Ware says you have made me a present since I was here?"

"Yah! yah! Marse Desmit, dat I hab! Jes' de finest little nigger boy yer ebber sot eyes on.
Jes' you look at him now," she continued, holding up her brighteyed pickaninny. "Ebber you
see de beat ub dat?  Reg'lar ten pound, an' wuff two hundred dollars dis bressed minnit."

"Is that it, Lorency?" said Desmit, pointing to the child. "Who ever saw such a thunder-cloud?"

There was a boisterous laugh at the master's joke from the assembled crowd. Nothing abashed,
the good-natured mother replied, with ready wit,

"Dat so, Marse Kunnel. He's brack, he is. None ob yer bleached out yaller sort of coffee-cullud
nigger 'bout him. De rale ole giniwine kind, dat a coal make a white mark on. Yah I yah! what
yer gwine ter name him, Mahs'r? Gib him a good name, now, none o' yer common mean ones, but
jes' der bes' one yer got in yer book;" for Colonel Desmit was writing in a heavy clasped book
which rested on a light stand beside him.

"What is it, Mahs'r?"

"Nimbus," replied the master.

"Wh--what?" asked the mother. "Say dat agin', won't yer, Mahs'r?"

"Nimbus--Nimbus," repeated Desmit.

"Wal, I swan ter gracious!" exclaimed the mother.  "Ef dat don't beat! H'yer! little--what's
yer name?  Jes' ax yer Mahs'r fer a silver dollar ter pay yer fer hevin' ter tote dat er name
'roun' ez long ez yer lives."

She held the child toward its godfather and owner as she spoke, amid a roar of laughter from
her fellow-servants.  Desmit good-naturedly threw a dollar into the child's lap, for which
Lorency courtesied, and then held out her hand.

"What do you want now, gal?" asked Desmit.

"Yer a'n't a gwine ter take sech a present ez dis from a pore cullud gal an' not so much ez
giv' her someting ter remember hit by, is yer?" she asked with arch persistency.

"There, there," said he laughing, as he gave her another dollar. "Go on, or I shan't have a
cent left."

"All right, Marse Kunnel. Thank ye, Mahs'r," she said, as she walked off in triumph.

"Oh, hold on," said Desmit; "how old is it, Lorency?"

"Jes' sebben weeks ole dis bressed day, Mahs'r," said the proud mother as she vanished into
the kitchen to boast of her good-fortune in getting two silver dollars out of Marse Desmit
instead of the one customarily given by him on such occasions.    And so the record was made
up in the brass-clasped book of Colonel Potestatem Desmit, the only baptismal register of the
colored man who twenty-six years afterward  was wondering at the names which were seeking him
against his will.

697--Nimbus--of Lorency--Male--April 24th, 1840--Sound--Knapp-of-Reeds.

It was a queer baptismal entry, but a slave needed no more--indeed did not need that. It was
not given for his sake, but only for the convenience of his godfather should the chattel ever
seek to run away, or should it become desirable to exchange him for some other form of value.
There was nothing harsh or brutal or degraded about it. Mr. Desmit was doing, in a business
way, what the law not only allowed but encouraged him to do, and doing it because it paid.

CHAPTER III.

THE JUNONIAN RITE.

"Marse Desmit?"

"Well?"

"Ef yer please, Mahs'r, I wants ter marry?"

"The devil you do!"

"Yes, sah, if you please, sah."

"What's your name?"

"Nimbus."

"So: you're the curer at Knapp-of-Reeds, I believe?"

"Yes, sah."   "That last crop was well done. Mr. Ware says you're one of the best hands he
has ever known."

"Thank ye, Mahs'r," with a bow and scrape.

"What's the gal's name?"

"Lugena, sah."

"Yes, Vicey's gal--smart gal, too. Well, as I've about concluded to keep you both--if you behave
yourselves, that is, as well as you've been doing--I don't know as there's any reason why you
shouldn't take up with her."

"Thank ye, Mahs'r," very humbly, but very joyfully.

The speakers were the black baby whom Desmit had christened Nimbus, grown straight and strong,
and just turning his first score on the scale of life, and Colonel Desmit, grown a little older,
a little grayer, a little fuller, and a great deal richer--if only the small cloud of war just
rising on the horizon would blow over and leave his possessions intact. He believed it would,
but he was a wise man and a cautious one, and he did not mean to be caught napping if it did not.

Nimbus had come from Knapp-of-Reeds to a plantation twenty miles away, upon a pass from Mr.
Ware, on the errand his conversation disclosed. He was a fine figure of a man despite his ebon
hue, and the master, looking at him, very naturally noted his straight, strong back, square
shoulders, full, round neck, and shapely, well-balanced head. His face was rather heavy--grave,
it would have been called if he had been white--and his whole figure and appearance showed
an earnest and thoughtful temperament. He was as far from that volatile type which, through
the mimicry of burnt-cork minstrels and the exaggerations of caricaturists, as well as the
works of less disinterested portrayers of the race, have come to represent the negro to the
unfamiliar mind, as the typical Englishman is from the Punch-and-Judy figures which amuse him.
The slave Nimbus in a white skin would have been considered a man of great physical power and
endurance, earnest purpose, and quiet, self-reliant character. Such, in truth, he was. Except
the whipping he had received when but a lad, by his master's orders, no blow had ever been
struck him. Indeed, blows were rarely stricken on the plantations of Colonel Desmit; for while
he required work, obedience, and discipline, he also fed well and clothed warmly, and allowed
no overseer to use the lash for his own gratification, or except for good cause. It was well
known that nothing would more surely secure dismissal from his service than the free use of
the whip. Not that he thought there was anything wrong or inhuman about the whipping-post,
but it was entirely contrary to his policy.  To keep a slave comfortable, healthy, and good-natured,
according to Colonel Desmit's notion, was to increase his value, and thereby add to his owner's
wealth. He knew that Nimbus was a very valuable slave. He had always been attentive to his
tasks, was a prime favorite with his overseer, and had already acquired the reputation of being
one of the most expert and trusty men that the whole region could furnish, for a tobacco crop.
Every step in the process of growing and curing--from the preparation of the seed-bed to the
burning of the coal-pit, and gauging the heat required in the mud-daubed barn for different
kinds of leaf and in every stage of cure--was perfectly familiar to him, and he could always
be trusted to see that it was properly and opportunely done. This fact, together with his quiet
and contented disposition, added very greatly to his value. The master regarded him, therefore,
with great satisfaction. He was willing to gratify him in any reasonable way, and so, after
some rough jokes at his expense, wrote out his marriage-license in these words, in pencil,
on the blank leaf of a notebook:

MR. WARE: Nimbus and Lugena want to take up with each other. You have a pretty full force now,
but I have decided to keep them and sell some of the old ones--say Vicey and Lorency. Neither
have had any children for several years, and are yet strong, healthy women, who will bring
nearly as much as the girl Lugena.  I shall make up a gang to go South in charge of Winburn
next week. You may send them over to Louisburg  on Monday. You had better give Nimbus the empty
house near the tobacco-barn. We need a trusty man there. Respectfully, P. DESMIT.

So Nimbus went home happy, and on the Saturday night following, in accordance with this authority,
with much mirth and clamor, and with the half-barbarous and half-Christian ceremony--which
the law did not recognize; which bound neither parties, nor master nor stranger; which gave
Nimbus no rights and Lugena no privileges; which neither sanctified the union nor protected
its offspring--the slave "boy" and "gal" "took up with each other," and began that farce which
the victims  of slavery were allowed to call "marriage." The sole purpose of permitting it
was to raise children. The offspring were sometimes called "families," even in grave legal
works; but there was no more of the family right of protection, duty of sustenance and care,
or any other of the sacred elements which make the family a type of heaven, than attends the
propagation of any other species of animate property. When its purpose had been served, the
voice of the master effected instant divorce.  So, on the Monday morning thereafter the mothers
of  the so-called bride and groom, widowed by the inexorable  demands of the master's interests,
left husband and children, and those fair fields which represented all that they knew of the
paradise which we call home, and with tears and groans started for that living tomb, the ever-devouring
and insatiable "far South."

CHAPTER IV.

MARS MEDDLES.

LOUISBURG, January 10, 1864.

MR. SILAS WARE:

DEAR SIR: In ten days I have to furnish twenty hands to work on fortifications for the Confederate
Government.  I have tried every plan I could devise to avoid doing so, but can put it off no
longer. I anticipated this long ago, and exchanged all the men I could possibly spare for women,
thinking that would relieve me, but it makes no difference. They apportion the levy upon the
number of slaves. I shall have to furnish more pretty soon. The trouble is to know who to send.
I am afraid every devil of them will run away, but have concluded that if I send Nimbus as
a sort of headman of the gang, he may be able to bring them through. He is a very faithful
fellow, with none of the fool-notions niggers sometimes get, I think. In fact, he is too dull
to have such notions. At the same time he has a good deal of influence over the others. If
you agree with this idea, send him to me at once.  Respectfully, P. DESMIT.

In accordance with this order Nimbus was sent on to have another interview with his master.
The latter's wishes were explained, and he was asked if he could fulfil them.    "Dunno," he
answered stolidly.

"Are you willing to try?"

"S'pect I hev ter, ennyhow, ef yer say so."

"Now, Nimbus, haven't I always been a good master to you?" reproachfully.

No answer.

"Haven't I been kind to you always?"

"Yer made Marse War' gib me twenty licks once."

"Well, weren't you saucy, Nimbus? Wouldn't you have done that to a nigger that called you a
'grand rascal' to your face?"

"S'pecs I would, Mahs'r."

"Of course you would. You know that very well.  You've too much sense to remember that against
me now.  Besides, if you are not willing to do this I shall have to sell you South to keep
you out of the hands of the Yanks."

Mr, Desmit knew how to manage "niggers," and full well understood the terrors of being "sold
South." He saw his advantage in the flush of apprehension which, before he had ceased speaking,
made the jetty face before  him absolutely ashen with terror.

"Don't do dat, Marse Desmit, ef you please! Don't do dat er wid Nimbus! Mind now, Mahs'r, I'se
got a wife an' babies."

"So you have, and I know you don't want to leave them."

"No more I don't, Mahs'r," earnestly.

"And you need not if you'll do as I want you to. See here, Nimbus, if you'll do this I will
promise that you and your family never shall be separated, and I'll give you fifty dollars
now and a hundred dollars when you come back, if you'll just keep those other fool-niggers
from trying--mind' I say trying--to run away and so getting shot. There's no such thing as
getting to the Yankees, and it would be a heap worse for them if they did, but you know they
are such fools they might try it and get killed--which would serve them right, only I should
have to bear the loss."

"All right, Mahs'r, I do the best I can," said Nimbus.

"That's right," said the master.

"Here are fifty dollars," and he handed him a Confederate  bill of that denomination (gold
value at that time, $3.21).

Mr. Desmit did not feel entirely satisfied when Nimbus and his twenty fellow-servants went
off upon the train to work for the Confederacy. However, he had done all he could except to
warn the guards to be very careful, which he did not neglect to do.

Just forty days afterward a ragged, splashed and torn young ebony Samson lifted the flap of
a Federal officer's tent upon one of the coast islands, stole silently in, and when he saw
the officer's eyes fixed upon him. asked,

"Want ary boy, Mahs'r?"

The tone, as well as the form of speech, showed a new-comer. The officer knew that none of
the colored men who had been upon the island any length of time would have ventured into his
presence unannounced, or have made such an inquiry.

"Where did you come from?" he asked.

"Ober to der mainlan'," was the composed answer.

"How did you get here?"

"Come in a boat."

"Run away?"

"S'pose so."

"Where did you live?"

"Up de kentry--Horsford County."

"How did you come down here?"   "Ben wukkin' on de bres'wuks."

"The dickens you have!"

"Yes, sah."

"How did you get a boat, then?"

"Jes' tuk it--dry so."

"Anybody with you?"

"No, Mahs'r."

"And you came across the Sound alone in an open boat?"

"Yes, Mahs'r; an' fru' de swamp widout any boat."

"I should say so," laughed the officer, glancing at his clothes. "What did you come here for?"

"Jes'--kase."

"Didn't they tell you you'd be worse off with the Yankees than you were with them?"

"Yes, sah."

"Didn't you believe them?"

"Dunno, sah."

"What do you want to do?"

"Anything."

"Fight the rebs?"

"Wal, I kin du it."

"What's your name?"

"Nimbus."

"Nimbus? Good name--ha! ha: what else?"

"Nuffin' else."

"Nothing else? What was your old master's name?"

"Desmit--Potem Desmit."

"Well, then, that's yours, ain't it--your surname--Nimbus Desmit?"

"Reckon not, Mahs'r."

"No? Why not?"

"Same reason his name ain't Nimbus, I s'pose."

"Well," said the officer, laughing, "there may be  something in that; but a soldier must have
two names.  Suppose I call you George Nimbus?"

"Yer kin call me jes' what yer choose, sah; but my name's Nimbus all the same. No Gawge Nimbus,
nor ennything Nimbus, nor Nimbus ennything--jes' Nimbus; so. Nigger got no use fer two names,
nohow."

The officer, perceiving that it was useless to argue the matter further, added his name to
the muster-roll of a regiment, and he was duly sworn into the service of the United States
as George Nimbus, of Company C, of the---Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, and was counted
one of the quota which the town of Great Barringham, in the valley of the Housatuck, was required
to furnish to complete the pending call for troops to put down rebellion. By virtue of this
fact, the said George Nimbus  became entitled to the sum of four hundred dollars bounty money
offered by said town to such as should give themselves to complete its quota of "the boys in
blue," in addition to his pay and bounty from the Government.  So, if it forced on him a new
name, the service  of freedom was not altogether without compensatory advantages.

Thus the slave Nimbus was transformed into the "contraband" George Nimbus, and became not only
a soldier of fortune, but also the representative of a patriotic citizen of Great Barringham,
who served his country by proxy, in the person of said contraband, faithfully and well until
the end of the war, when the South fell--stricken at last most fatally by the dark hands which
she had manacled, and overcome by their aid whose manhood she had refused to acknowledge.

CHAPTER V.

NUNC PRO TUNC.

The first step in the progress from the prison-house of bondage to the citadel of liberty was
a strange one. The war was over. The struggle for autonomy and the inviolability of slavery,
on the part of the South, was ended, and fate had decided against them. With this arbitrament
of war fell also the institution which had been its cause. Slavery was abolished--by proclamation,
by national enactment, by constitutional amendment--ay, by the sterner logic which forbade
a nation to place shackles again upon hands which had been raised in her defence, which had
fought for her life and at her request.  So the slave was a slave no more. No other man could
claim his service or restrain his volition. He might go or come, work or play, so far as his
late master was concerned.

But that was all. He could not contract, testify, marry or give in marriage. He had neither
property, knowledge, right, or power. The whole four millions did not possess that number of
dollars or of dollars' worth.  Whatever they had acquired in slavery was the master's, unless
he had expressly made himself a trustee for their benefit. Regarded from the legal standpoint
it was, indeed, a strange position in which they were. A race despised, degraded, penniless,
ignorant, houseless, homeless, fatherless, childless, nameless. Husband or wife there was not
one in four millions. Not a child might call upon a father for aid, and no man of them all
might lift his hand in a daughter's defence. Uncle and aunt and cousin, home, family--none
of these words had any place in the freedman's vocabulary. Right he had, in the abstract; in
the concrete, none. Justice would not hear his voice. The law was still color-blinded by the past.

The fruit of slavery--its first ripe harvest, gathered with swords and bloody bayonets, was
before the nation which looked ignorantly on the fruits of the deliverance it had wrought.
The North did not comprehend its work; the South could not comprehend its fate. The unbound
slave looked to the future in dull, wondering hope.

The first step in advance was taken neither by the nation nor by the freedmen. It was prompted
by the voice of conscience, long hushed and hidden in the master's breast. It was the protest
of Christianity and morality against that which it had witnessed with complacency for many
a generation. All at once it was perceived to be a great enormity that four millions of Christian
people, in a Christian land, should dwell together without marriage rite or family tie. While
they were slaves, the fact that they might be bought and sold had hidden this evil from the
eye of morality, which had looked unabashed upon the unlicensed freedom of the quarters and
the enormities of the barracoon. Now all at once it was shocked beyond expression at the domestic
relations of the freedmen.

So they made haste in the first legislative assemblies that met in the various States, after
the turmoil of war had ceased, to provide and enact:

I. That all those who had sustained to each other the relation of husband and wife in the days
of slavery, might, upon application to an officer named in each county, be registered as such
husband and wife.

2. That all who did not so register within a certain time should be liable to indictment, if
the relation continued thereafter.

3. That the effect of such registration should be to constitute such parties husband and wife,
as of the date of their first assumption of marital relations.

4. That for every such couple registered the officer should be entitled to receive the sum
of one half-dollar from the parties registered.

There was a grim humor about this marriage of a race by wholesale, millions at a time, and
nunc pro tunc; but especially quaint was the idea of requiring each freed-man, who had just
been torn, as it were naked, from the master's arms, to pay a snug fee for the simple privilege
of entering upon that relation which the law had rigorously withheld from him until that moment.
It was a strange remedy for a long-hidden and stubbornly denied disease, and many strange scenes
were enacted in accordance with the provisions of this statute. Many an aged couple, whose
children had been lost in the obscure abysses of slavery, or had gone before them into the
spirit land, old and feeble and gray-haired, wrought with patience day after day to earn at
once their living and the money for this fee, and when they had procured it walked a score
of miles in order that they might be "registered," and, for the brief period that remained
to them of life, know that the law had sanctioned the relation which years of love and suffering
had sanctified.  It was the first act of freedom, the first step of legal recognition or manly
responsibility! It was a proud hour and a proud fact for the race which had so long been bowed
in thralldom and forbidden even the most common though the holiest of God's ordinances. What
the law had taken little by little, as the science of Christian slavery grew up under the brutality
of our legal progress, the law returned in bulk. It was the first seal which was put on the
slave's manhood--the first step upward from the brutishness of another's possession to the
glory of independence. The race felt its importance as did no one else at that time. By hundreds
and thousands they crowded the places appointed, to accept the honor offered to their posterity,
and thereby unwittingly conferred undying honor upon themselves. Few indeed were the unworthy
ones who evaded the sacred responsibility thus laid upon them, and left their offspring to
remain under the badge of shame. When carefully looked at it was but a scant cure, and threw
the responsibility of illegitimacy where it did not belong, but it was a mighty step nevertheless.
The distance from zero to unity is always infinity.

The county clerk in and for the county of Horsford sat behind the low wooden railing which
he had been compelled to put across his office to protect him from the too near approach of
those who crowded to this fountain of rehabilitating honor that had recently been opened therein.
Unused to anything beyond the plantation on which they had been reared, the temple of justice
was as strange to their feet, and the ways and forms of ordinary business as marvelous to their
minds as the etiquette of the king's palace to a peasant who has only looked from afar upon
its pinnacled roof. The recent statute had imposed upon the clerk a labor of no little difficulty
because of this very ignorance on the part of those whom he was required to serve; but he was
well rewarded. The clerk was a man of portly presence, given to his ease, who smoked a long-stemmed
pipe as he sat beside a table which, in addition to his papers and writing materials, held
a bucket of water on which floated a clean gourd, in easy reach of his hand.

"Be you the clerk, sail?" said a straight young colored man, whose clothing had a hint of the
soldier in it, as well as his respectful but unusually collected bearing.

"Yes," said the clerk, just glancing up, but not intermitting  his work; "what do you want?"

"If you please, sah, we wants to be married, Lugena and me."

"Registered, you mean, I suppose?"

"No, we don't, sah; we means married."

"I can't marry you. You'll have to get a license and be married by a magistrate or a minister."

"But I heard der was a law---"

"Have you been living together as man and wife?"

"Oh, yes, sah; dat we hab, dis smart while."

"Then you want to be registered. This is the place.  Got a half-dollar?"

"Yes, sah?"

"Let's have it."

The colored man took out some bills, and with much difficulty endeavored to make a selection;
finally, handing  one doubtfully toward the clerk, he asked,

"Is dat a one-dollah, sah?"

"No, that is a five, but I can change it."

"No, I'se got it h'yer," said the other hastily, as he dove again into his pockets, brought
out some pieces of fractional currency and handed them one by one to the officer until he said
he had enough.

"Well," said the clerk as he took up his pen and prepared to fill out the blank, "what is your
name?"

"My name's Nimbus, sah."

"Nimbus what?"

"Nimbus nuffin', sah; jes' Nimbus."   "But you must have another name?"

"No I hain't. Jes' wore dat fer twenty-odd years, an' nebber hed no udder."

"Who do you work for?"

"Wuk for myself, sah."

"Well, on whose land do you work?"

"Wuks on my own, sah. Oh, I libs at home an' boa'ds at de same place, I does. An' my name's
Nimbus, jes' straight along, widout any tail ner handle."

"What was your old master's name?"

"Desmit--Colonel Potem Desmit."

"I might have known that," said the clerk laughingly, "from the durned outlandish name. Well,
Desmit is your surname, then, ain't it?"

"No'taint, Mister. What right I got ter his name?  He nebber gib it ter me no more'n he did
ter you er Lugena h'yer."

"Pshaw, I can't stop to argue with you. Here's your certificate."

"Will you please read it, sah? I hain't got no larnin'.  Ef you please, sah."

The clerk, knowing it to be the quickest way to get rid of them, read rapidly over the certificate
that Nimbus and Lugena Desmit had been duly registered as husband and wife, under the provisions
of an ordinance of the Convention ratified on the---day of---, 1865.

"So you's done put in dat name--Desmit?"

"Oh, I just had to, Nimbus. The fact is, a man can't be married according to law without two
names."

"So hit appears; but ain't it quare dat I should hev ole Mahs'r's name widout his gibbin' it
ter me, ner my axin' fer it, Mister?"

"It may be, but that's the way, you see."

"So hit seems. 'Pears like I'm boun' ter hev mo' names 'n I knows what ter do wid, jes' kase
I's free.  But de chillen--yer hain't sed nary word about dem, Mister."

"Oh, I've nothing to do with them."

"But, see h'yer, Mister, ain't de law a doin dis ter make dem lawful chillen?"

"Certainly."

"An' how's de law ter know which is de lawful chillen ef hit ain't on dat ar paper?"

"Sure enough," said the clerk, with amusement.  "That would have been a good idea, but, you
see, Nimbus,  the law didn't go that far."

"Wal, hit ought ter hev gone dat fur. Now, Mister Clerk, couldn't you jes' put dat on dis yer
paper, jes' ter "commodate me, yer know."

"Perhaps so," good-naturedly, taking back the certificate;  "what do you want me to write?"

"Wal, yer see, dese yer is our chillen. Dis yer boy Lone--Axylone, Marse Desmit called him,
but we calls him Lone for short--he's gwine on fo'; dis yer gal Wicey, she's two past; and
dis little brack cuss Lugena's a-holdin' on, we call Cap'n, kase he bosses all on us--he's
nigh 'bout a year; an' dat's all."

The clerk entered the names and ages of the children on the back of the paper, with a short
certificate that they were present, and were acknowledged as the children, and the only ones,
of the parties named in the instrument.

And so the slave Nimbus was transformed, first into the "contraband" and mercenary soldier
George Nimbus, and then by marriage into Nimbus Desmit.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TOGA VIRILIS.

But the transformations of the slave were not yet ended. The time came when he was permitted
to become  a citizen. For two years he had led an inchoate, nondescript sort of existence:
free without power or right; neither slave nor freeman; neither property nor citizen. He had
been, meanwhile, a bone of contention between the Provisional Governments of the States and
the military power which controlled them. The so-called State Governments dragged him toward
the  whipping-post and the Black Codes and serfdom. They denied him his oath, fastened him
to the land, compelled him to hire by the year, required the respectfulness of the old slave
"Mahs'r" and "Missus," made his employer  liable for his taxes, and allowed recoupment therefor;
limited his avocations and restricted his opportunities.  These would substitute serfdom for
chattelism.

On the other hand the Freedman's Bureau acted as his guardian and friend, looked after his
interests in contracts, prohibited the law's barbarity, and insisted stubbornly that the freedman
was a man, and must be treated as such. It needed only the robe of citizenship, it was thought,
to enable him safely to dispense with the one of these agencies and defy the other. So the
negro was transformed into a citizen, a voter, a political factor, by act of Congress, with
the aid and assistance of the military power.

A great crowd had gathered at the little town of Melton, which was one of the chief places
of the county of Horsford,  for the people had been duly notified by official advertisement
that on this day the board of registration appointed by the commander of the military district
in which Horsford County was situated would convene there, to take and record the names, and
pass upon the qualifications, of all who desired to become voters of the new body politic which
was to be erected therein, or of the old one which was to be reconstructed and rehabilitated
out of the ruins which war had left.

The first provision of the law was that every member of such board of registration should be
able to take what was known in those days as the "iron-clad oath," that is, an oath that he
had never engaged in, aided, or abetted  any rebellion against the Government of the United
States. Men who could do this were exceedingly difficult  to find in some sections. Of course
there were abundance of colored men who could take this oath, but not one in a thousand of
them could read or write. The military commander determined, however, to select in every registration
district one of the most intelligent of this class, in order that he might look after the interests
of his race, now for the first time to take part in any public or political movement. This
would greatly increase  the labors of the other members of the board, yet was thought not only
just but necessary. As the labor of recording the voters of a county was no light one, especially
as the lists had to be made out in triplicate, it was necessary to have some clerical ability
on the board.  These facts often made the composition of these boards somewhat heterogeneous
and peculiar. The one which was to register the voters of Horsford consisted of a little old
white man, who had not enough of stamina or character  to have done or said anything in aid
of rebellion, and who, if he had done the very best he knew, ought yet to have been held guiltless
of evil accomplished. In his younger days he had been an overseer, but in his later years had
risen to the dignity of a landowner and the possession of one or two slaves. He wrestled with
the mysteries of the printed page with a sad seriousness which made one regret his inability
to remember what was at the top until he had arrived at the bottom. Writing was a still more
solemn business with him, but he was a brave man and would cheerfully undertake to transcribe
a list of names, which he well knew that anything  less than eternity would be too short to
allow him  to complete. He was a small, thin-haired, squeaky-voiced bachelor of fifty, and
as full of good intentions as the road to perdition. If Tommy Glass ever did any  evil it would
not only be without intent but from sheer  accident.

With Tommy was associated an old colored man, one of those known in that region as "old-issue
free-niggers." Old Pharaoh Ray was a venerable man. He had learned to read before the Constitution
of 1835 deprived the free-negro of his vote, and had read a little since. He wore an amazing
pair of brass-mounted spectacles.  His head was surmounted by a mass of snowy hair, and he
was of erect and powerful figure despite the fact that he boasted a life of more than eighty
years. He read about as fast and committed to memory more easily than his white associate,
Glass. In writing they were about a match; Pharaoh wrote his name much more  legibly than Glass
could, but Glass accomplished the  task in about three fourths of the time required by  Pharaoh.

The third member of the board was Captain Theron Pardee, a young man who had served in the
Federal army and afterward settled in an adjoining county. He was the chairman. He did the
writing, questioning, and deciding, and as each voter had to be sworn he utilized his two associates
by requiring them to administer the oaths and--look wise. The colored man in about two weeks
learned these oaths so that he could repeat them.  The white man did not commit the brief formulas
in the four weeks they were on duty.

The good people of Melton were greatly outraged that this composite board should presume to
come and pass upon the qualifications of its people as voters under the act of Congress, and
indeed it was a most ludicrous affair. The more they contemplated the outrage that was being
done to them, by decreeing that none should vote who had once taken an oath to support the
Government  of the United States and afterward aided the rebellion,  the angrier they grew,
until finally they declared that the registration should not be held. Then there were some
sharp words between the ex-Federal soldier and the objectors. As no house could be procured
for the purpose, he proposed to hold the registration on the porch of the hotel where he stopped,
but the landlord objected. Then he proposed to hold it on the sidewalk under a big tree, but
the town authorities declared against it. However, he was proceeding there, when an influential
citizen kindly came forward and offered the use of certain property under his control. There
was some clamor, but the gentleman did not flinch. Thither they adjourned, and the work went
busily on. Among others who came to be enrolled as citizens was our old friend Nimbus.

"Where do you live?" asked the late Northern soldier sharply, as Nimbus came up in. his turn
in the long line of those waiting for the same purpose.

"Down ter Red Wing, sah?"

"Where's that?"

"Oh, right down h'yer on Hyco, sah."

"In this county?"

"Oh, bless yer, yes, Mister, should tink hit was. Hit's not above five or six miles out from
h'yer."

"How old are you?"

"Wal, now, I don't know dat, not edzactly."

"How old do you think--twenty-one?"

"Oh, la, yes; more nor dat, Cap'."

"Born where?"

"Right h'yer in Horsford, sah."

"What is your name?"

"Nimbus."

"Nimbus what?" asked the officer, looking up.

"Nimbus nothin', sah; jes' straight along Nimbus."

"Well, but--" said the officer, looking puzzled, "you must have some sort of surname."

"No, sah, jes' one; nigger no use for two names."

"Yah! yah! yah!" echoed the dusky crowd behind him. "You's jes' right dah, you is! Niggah mighty
little use fer heap o' names. Jes' like a mule--one name does him, an' mighty well off ef he's
'lowed ter keep dat."

"His name's Desmit," said a white man, the sheriff of the county, who stood leaning over the
railing; "used to belong to old Potem Desmit, over to Louisburg.  Mighty good nigger, too.
I s'pec' ole man Desmit felt about as bad at losing him as ary one he had."

"Powerful good hand in terbacker," said Mr. Glass, who was himself an expert in "yaller leaf."
"Ther' wasn't no better ennywhar' round."

"I knows all about him," said another. "Seed a man offer old Desmit eighteen hundred dollars
for him afore the war--State money--but he wouldn't tech it.  Reckon he wishes he had now."

"Yes," said the sheriff, "he's the best curer in the county. Commands almost any price in the
season, but is powerful independent, and gittin' right sassy. Listen at him now?"

"They say your name is Desmit--Nimbus Desmit," said the officer; "is that so?"

"No, tain't."

"Wasn't that your old master's name?" asked the sheriff roughly.

"Co'se it war," was the reply.

"Well, then, ain't it yours too?"

"No, it ain't."

"Well, you just ask the gentleman if that ain't so," said the sheriff, motioning to the chairman
of the board.

"Well," said that officer, with a peculiar smile, "I do not know that there is any law compelling
a freedman to adopt his former master's name. He is without name in the law, a pure nullius
filius--nobody's son. As a slave he had but one name. He could have no surname,  because he
had no family. He was arraigned, tried, and executed as 'Jim' or 'Bill' or 'Tom.' The volumes
of the reports are full of such cases, as The State vs. 'Dick' or 'Sam.' The Roman custom was
for the freedman to take the name of some friend, benefactor, or patron. I do not see why the
American freedman has not a right to choose his own surname."

"That is not the custom here," said the sheriff, with some chagrin, he having begun the controversy.

"Very true," replied the chairman; "the custom--and a very proper and almost necessary one
it seems--is to call the freedman by a former master's name. This distinguishes individuals.
But when the freedman refuses  to acknowledge the master's name as his, who can impose it on
him? We are directed to register the names of parties, and while we might have the right to
refuse one whom we found attempting to register under a false name, yet we have no power to
make names for those applying. Indeed, if this man insists that he has but one name, we must,
for what I can see, register him by that alone."

His associates looked wise, and nodded acquiescence in the views thus expressed.

"Den dat's what I chuse," said the would-be voter.  "My name's Nimbus--noffin' mo'."

"But I should advise you to take another name to save trouble when you come to vote," said
the chairman.  His associates nodded solemnly again.

"Wal, now, Marse Cap'n, you jes' see h'yer. I don't want ter carry nobody's name widout his
leave. S'pose I take ole Marse War's name ober dar?"

"You can take any one you choose. I shall write down the one you give me."

"Is you willin', Marse War'?"

"I've nothing to do with it, Nimbus," said Ware; "fix your own name."

"Wal sah," said Nimbus, "I reckon I'll take dat ef I must hev enny mo' name. Yer see he wuz
my ole oberseer, Mahs'r, an' wuz powerful good ter me, tu. I'd a heap ruther hev his name than
Marse Desmit's; but I don't want no name but Nimbus, nohow.

"All right," said the chairman, as he made the entry.  "Ware it is then."

As there might be a poll held at Red Wing, where Nimbus lived, he was given a certificate showing
that Nimbus Ware had been duly registered as an elector of the county of Horsford and for the
precinct of Red Wing.

Then the newly-named Nimbus was solemnly sworn by the patriarchal Pharaoh to bear true faith
and allegiance to the government of the United States, and to uphold its constitution and the
laws passed in conformity  therewith; and thereby the recent slave became a component factor
of the national life, a full-fledged citizen of the American Republic.

As he passed out, the sheriff said to those about him, in a low tone,

"There'll be trouble with that nigger yet. He's too sassy. You'll see."

"How so?" asked the chairman. "I thought you said he was industrious, thrifty, and honest."

"Oh, yes," was the reply, "there ain't a nigger in the county got a better character for honesty
and hard work than he, but he's too important--has got the big head, as we call it."

"I don't understand what you mean," said the chairman.

"Why he ain't respectful," said the other. "Talks as independent as if he was a white man."

"Well, he has as much right to talk independently as a  white man. He is just as free," said
the chairman sharply.

"Yes; but he ain't white," said the sheriff doggedly, "and our people won't stand a nigger's
puttin' on such airs. Why, Captain," he continued in a tone which showed that he felt that
the fact he was about to announce must carry conviction even to the incredulous heart of the
Yankee officer. "You just ought to see his place down at Red Wing. Damned if he ain't better
fixed up than lots of white men in the county. He's got a good house, and a terbacker-barn,
and a church, and a nigger school-house, and stock, and one of the finest crops of terbacker
in the county. Oh, I tell you, he's cutting a wide swath, he is."   "You don't tell me," said
the chairman with interest.  "I am glad to hear it. There appears to be good stuff in the fellow.
He seems to have his own ideas about things, too."

"Yes, that's the trouble," responded the sheriff.  "Our people ain't used to that and won't
stand it. He's putting on altogether too much style for a nigger."

"Pshaw," said the chairman, "if there were more like him it would be better for everybody.
A man like him is worth something for an example. If all the race were of his stamp there would
be more hope."

"The devil!" returned the sheriff, with a sneering laugh, "if they were all like him, a white
man couldn't live in the country. They'd be so damned sassy and important that we'd have to
kill the last one of 'em to have any peace."

"Fie, sheriff," laughed the chairman good-naturedly; "you seem to be vexed at the poor fellow
for his thrift, and because he is doing well."

"I am a white man, sir; and I don't like to see niggers  gittin' above us. Them's my sentiments,"
was the reply. "And that's the way our people feel."

There was a half-suppressed murmur of applause among the group of white men at this. The chairman
responded,

"No doubt, and yet I believe you are wrong. Now, I can't help liking the fellow for his sturdy
manhood.  He may be a trifle too positive, but it is a good fault. I think he has the elements
of a good citizen, and I can't understand why you feel so toward him."

There were some appreciative and good-natured cries of "Dar now," "Listen at him," "Now you're
talkin'," from the colored men at this reply.

"Oh, that's because you're a Yankee," said the sheriff, with commiserating scorn. "You don't
think, now, that it's any harm to talk that way before niggers and set them against the white
people either, I suppose?"

The chairman burst into a hearty laugh, as he replied,

"No, indeed, I don't. If you call that setting the blacks against the whites, the sooner they
are by the ears the better. If you are so thin-skinned that you can't allow a colored man to
think, talk, act, and prosper like a man, the sooner you get over your squeamishness the better.
For me, I am interested in this Nimbus. We have to go to Red Wing and report on it as a place
for holding a poll and I am bound to see more of him."

"Oh, you'll see enough of him if you go there, never fear," was the reply.

There was a laugh from the white men about the sheriff, a sort of cheer from the colored men
in waiting, and the business of the board went on without further reference to the new-made
citizen.

The slave who had been transformed into a "contraband"  and mustered as a soldier under one
name, married under another, and now enfranchised under a third, returned to his home to meditate
upon his transformations--as we found him doing in our first chapter.

The reason for these metamorphoses, and their consequences, might well puzzle a wiser head
than that of the many-named but unlettered Nimbus.

CHAPTER VII.

DAMON AND PYTHIAS.

After his soliloquy in regard to his numerous names, as given in our first chapter, Nimbus
turned away from the gate near which he had been standing, crossed the yard in front of his
house, and entered a small cabin which stood near it.

"Dar! 'Liab," he said, as he entered and handed the paper which he had been examining to the
person addressed,  "I reckon I'se free now. I feel ez ef I wuz 'bout half free, ennyhow. I
wuz a sojer, an' fought fer freedom. I've got my house an' bit o' lan', wife, chillen, crap,
an' stock, an' it's all mine. An' now I'se done been registered, an' when de 'lection comes
off, kin vote jes' ez hard an' ez well an' ez often ez ole Marse Desmit.  I hain't felt free
afore--leastways I hain't felt right  certain on't; but now I reckon I'se all right, fact an'
truth.  What you tinks on't, 'Liab?"

The person addressed was sitting on a low seat under the one window which was cut into the
west side of the snugly-built log cabin. The heavy wooden shutter swung back over the bench.
On the other side of the room was a low cot, and a single splint-bottomed chair stood against
the open door. The house contained no other furniture.

The bench which he occupied was a queer compound of table, desk, and work-bench. It had the
leathern seat of a shoemaker's bench, except that it was larger and wider. As the occupant
sat with his back to the window, on his left were the shallow boxes of a shoemaker's bench,
and along its edge the awls and other tools of that craft were stuck in leather loops secured
by tacks, as is the custom of the crispin the world over. On the right was a table whose edge
was several inches above the seat, and on which were some books, writing materials, a slate,
a bundle of letters tied together with a piece of shoe-thread, and some newspapers and pamphlets
scattered about in a manner which showed at a glance that the owner was unaccustomed to their
care, but which is yet quite indescribable. On the wall above this table, but within easy reach
of the sitter's hand, hung a couple of narrow hanging shelves, on which a few books were neatly
arranged. One lay open on the table, with a shoemaker's last placed across it to prevent its
closing.

Eliab was already busily engaged in reading the  certificate which Nimbus had given him. The
sun, now near its setting, shone in at the open door and fell upon him as he read. He was a
man apparently about the age of Nimbus--younger rather than older--having a fine countenance,
almost white, but with just enough of brown in its sallow paleness to suggest the idea of 
colored blood, in a region where all degrees of admixture were by no means rare. A splendid
head of black hair waved above his broad, full forehead, and an intensely black silky beard
and mustache framed the lower portion of his face most fittingly. His eyes were soft and womanly,
though there was a patient boldness about their great brown pupils and a directness of gaze
which suited well the bearded face beneath. The lines of  suffering were deeply cut upon the
thoughtful brow and around the liquid eyes, and showed in the mobile workings  of the broad
mouth, half shaded by the dark mustache. The  face was not a handsome one, but there was a
serious and earnest calmness about it which gave it an unmistakable nobility of expression
and prompted one to look more closely at the man and his surroundings.

The shoulders were broad and square, the chest was full, the figure erect, and the head finely
poised. He was dressed with unusual neatness for one of his race and surroundings, at the time
of which we write.  One comprehended at a glance that this worker and learner was also deformed.
There was that in his surroundings which showed that he was not as other men.  The individuality
of weakness and suffering had left its indelible stamp upon the habitation which he occupied.
Yet so erect and self-helping in appearance was the figure on the cobbler's bench that one
for a moment failed to note in what the affliction consisted. Upon closer observation he saw
that the lower limbs were sharply flexed and drawn to the leftward, so that the right foot
rested on its side under the left thigh. This inclined  the body somewhat to the right, so
that the right arm rested naturally upon the table for support when not employed. These limbs,
especially below the knees, were shrunken and distorted. The shoe of the right foot whose upturned
sole rested on the left leg just above the ankle, was many sizes too small for a development
harmonious  with the trunk.

Nimbus sat down in the splint-bottomed chair by the door and fanned himself with his dingy
hat while the other read.

"How is dis, Nimbus? What does dis mean?  Nimbus Ware? Where did you get dat name?" he asked
at length, raising his eyes and looking in pained surprise toward the new voter.

"Now, Bre'er 'Liab, don't talk dat 'ere way ter Nimbus,  ef yo please. Don't do it now. Yer
knows I can't help it. Ebberybody want ter call me by ole Mahs'r's name, an' dat I can't abide
nohow; an' when I kicks 'bout it, dey jes gib me some odder one, Dey all seems ter tink I'se
boun' ter hev two names, though I hain't got no manner o' right ter but one."

"But how did you come to have dis one--Ware?" persisted Eliab.

"Wal, you see, Bre'er 'Liab, de boss man at der registerin'  he ax me fer my las' name, an'
I tell him I hadn't got none, jes so. Den Sheriff Gleason, he put in his oar, jes ez he allus
does, an' he say my name wuz Desmit, atter ole Mahs'r. Dat made me mad, an' I 'spute him, an'
sez I, 'I won't hev no sech name'. Den de boss man, he shet up Marse Gleason purty smart like,
and he sed I'd a right ter enny name I chose ter carry, kase nobody hadn't enny sort o' right
ter fasten enny name at all on ter me 'cept myself. But he sed I'd better hev two, kase most
other folks hed 'em. So I axed Marse Si War' ef he'd lend me his name jes fer de 'casion, yer
know, an' he sed he hadn't no 'jection ter it. So I tole der boss man ter put it down, an'
I reckon dar 'tis."

"Yes, here it is, sure 'nough, Nimbus; but didn't you promise me you wouldn't have so many names?"

"Co'se I did; an' I did try, but they all 'llowed I got ter have two names whe'er er no."

"Then why didn't you take your old mahs'r's name, like de rest, and not have all dis trouble?"

"Now, 'Liab, yer knows thet I won't nebber do dat."

"But why not, Nimbus?"

"Kase I ain't a-gwine ter brand my chillen wid no sech slave-mark! Nebber! You hear dat, 'Liab?
I hain't got no ill-will gin Marse Desmit, not a mite--only 'bout dat ar lickin, an' dat ain't
nuffin now; but I ain't gwine ter war his name ner giv it ter my chillen ter mind 'em dat der
daddy wuz jes anudder man's critter one time. I tell you I can't do hit, nohow; an' I won't,
Bre'er 'Liab. I don't hate Marse Desmit, but I does hate slavery--dat what made me his--worse'n
a pilot hates a rattlesnake; an' I hate everyting dat 'minds me on't, I  do!"

The black Samson had risen in his excitement and now sat down upon the bench by the other.

"I don't blame you for dat, Nimbus, but--"

"I don't want to heah no 'buts' 'bout it, an' I  won't."

"But the chillen, Nimbus. You don't want dem to be different from others and have no surname?"

"Dat's a fac', 'Liab," said Nimbus, springing to his feet. "I nebber t'ought o' dat. Dey must
hev a name, an' I mus' hev one ter gib 'em, but how's I gwine ter git one? Dar's nobody's got
enny right ter gib me one, an' ef I choose one dis week what's ter hender my takin' ob anudder
nex week?"

"Perhaps nothing," answered 'Liab, "but yourself.  You must not do it."

"Pshaw, now," said Nimbus, "' what sort o' way is dat ter hev things? I tell ye what orter
been done, 'Liab; when de law married us all, jes out of han' like, it orter hev named us too.
Hit mout hev been done, jes ez well's not. Dar's old Mahs'r now, he'd hev named all de niggas
in de county in a week, easy. An' dey'd been good names, too."

"But you'd have bucked at it ef he had," said 'Liab, good-naturedly.

"No I wouldn't, 'Liab. I hain't got nuffin 'gin ole Mahrs'r. He war good enough ter me--good
'nuff. I only hate what made him 'Old Mahs'r,' an' dat I does hate. Oh, my God, how I does
hate it, Liab! I hates de berry groun' dat a slave's wukked on! I do, I swar!  When I wuz a-comin'
home to-day an' seed de gullies 'long der way, hit jes made me cuss, kase dey wuz dar a-testifyin'
ob de ole time when a man war a critter--a dog--a nuffin!"

"Now you oughtn't to say dat, Nimbus. Just think of me. Warn't you better off as a slave than
I am  free?"

"No, I warn't. I'd ruther be a hundred times wuss off ner you, an' free, than ez strong as
I am an' a slave."

"But think how much more freedom is worth to you.  Here you are a voter, and I--"

"Bre'er 'Liab," exclaimed Nimbus, starting suddenly up, "what for you no speak 'bout dat afore.
Swar to God I nebber tink on't--not a word, till dis bressed minit. Why didn't yer say nuffin'
'bout bein' registered yo'self, eh? Yer knowed I'd a tuk yer ef I hed ter tote ye on my back,
which I wouldn't. I wouldn't gone a step widout yer ef I'd only a t'ought. Yer knows I  wouldn't."

"Course I does, Nimbus, but I didn't want ter make ye no trouble, nor take the mule out of
the crap," answered  'Liab apologetically.

"Damn de crap!" said Nimbus impetuously.

"Don't; don't swear, Nimbus, if you please."

"Can't help it, 'Liab, when you turn fool an' treat me dat 'ere way. I'd swar at ye ef yer
wuz in de pulpit an' dat come ober me, jes at de fust. Yer knows Nimbus better ner dat. Now
see heah, 'Liab Hill, yer's gwine ter go an' be registered termorrer, jes ez sure ez termorrer
comes. Here we thick-headed dunces hez been up dar to-day a-takin' de oath an' makin' bleve
we's full grown men, an' here's you, dat knows more nor a ten-acre  lot full on us, a lyin'
here an' habin' no chance at  all."

"But you want to get de barn full, and can't afford to spend any more time," protested 'Liab.

"Nebber you min' 'bout de barn. Dat's Nimbus' business, an" he'll take keer on't. Let him alone
fer dat. Yis, honey, I'se comin' d'reckly!" he shouted, as his wife called him from his own cabin.

"Now Bre'er 'Liab, yer comes ter supper wid us.  Lugena's jes' a callin' on't."

"Oh, don't, Nimbus," said the other, shrinking away. "I can't! You jes send one of the chillen
in with it, as usual."

"No yer don't," said Nimbus; "yer's been a scoldin' an' abusin' me all dis yer time, an' now
I'se gwine ter hab my way fer a little while."

He went to the door and called:

"Gena! Oh, Gena!" and as his wife did not answer, he said to one of his children, "Oh, Axylone,
jes run inter de kitchen, son, an' tell yer ma ter put on anudder plate, fer Bre'er 'Liab's
comin' ober ter take a bite  wid us."

Eliab kept on protesting, but it was in vain. Nimbus bent over him as tenderly as a mother
over the cradle of her first-born, clasped his arms about him, and lifting him from the bench
bore him away to his own house.

With an unconscious movement, which was evidently acquired by long experience, the afflicted
man cast one arm over Nimbus' shoulder, put the other around him, and leaning across the stalwart
breast of his friend so evenly distributed his weight that the other bore him with ease. Entering
his own house, Nimbus placed his burden in the chair at the head of the table, while he himself
took his seat on one of the wooden benches at the side.

"I jes brought Bre'er 'Liab in ter supper, honey," said he to his wife; "kase I see'd he war
gettin' inter de dumps like, an' I 'llowed yer'd chirk him up a bit ef yer jes hed him over
h'yer a while."

"Shan't do it," said the bright-eyed woman saucily.

"Kase why?" queried her husband.

"Kase Bre'er 'Liab don't come oftener. Dat's why."

"Dar, now, jes see what yer done git fer being so contrary-like, will yer?" said the master
to his guest.  H'yer, you Axylone," he continued to his eldest born, " fo'd up yer han's while
Bre'er 'Liab ax de blessin'.  You, too, Capting," shaking his finger at a roll of animated
blackness on the end of the seat opposite.

"Now, Bre'er 'Liab."

The little black fingers were interlocked, the close-clipped,  kinky heads were bowed upon
them; the master of the house bent reverently over his plate; the plump young wife crossed
her hands demurely on the bright handle of the big coffee-pot by which she stood, and "Bre'er
'Liab," clasping his slender fingers, uplifted his eyes and hands to heaven, and uttered a
grace which grew into a prayer. His voice was full of thankfulness, and tears crept from under
his trembling lids.

The setting sun, which looked in upon the peaceful scene, no doubt flickered and giggled with
laughter as he sank to his evening couch with the thought, "How  quick these 'sassy' free-niggers
do put on airs like white  folks!"

In the tobacco-field on the hillside back of his house, Nimbus and his wife, Lugena, wrought
in the light of the full moon nearly all the night which followed, and early on the morrow
Nimbus harnessed his mule into his canvas-covered wagon, in which, upon a bed of straw,  reclined
his friend Eliab Hill, and drove again to the place of registration. On arriving there he took
his friend in his arms, carried him in and sat him on the railing before  the Board. Clasping
the blanket close about his deformed extremities the cripple leaned upon his friend's shoulder
and answered the necessary questions with calmness and precision.

"There's a pair for you, captain," said Gleason, nodding  good-naturedly toward Nimbus as he
bore his helpless  charge again to the wagon.

"Is he white?" asked the officer, with a puzzled look.

"White?" exclaimed Sheriff Gleason, with a laugh.  "No, indeed! He's a nigger preacher who
lives with Nimbus down at Red Wing. They're great cronies--always together. I expect he's at
the bottom of all the black nigger's perversity, though he always seems as smooth and respectful
as you please. He's a deep one.  I 'llow he does all the scheming, and just makes Nimbus a
cat's-paw to do his work. I don't know much about him, though. He hardly ever talks with anybody."

"He seems a very remarkable man," said the officer.

"Oh, he is," said the sheriff. "Even in slave times he was a very influential man among the
niggers, and since freedom he and Nimbus together rule the whole settlement. I don't suppose
there are ten white men in the county who could control, square out and out, as many votes
as these two will have in hand when they once get to voting."

"Was he a slave? What is his history?"

"I don't exactly know," answered the sheriff. "He is quite a young man, and somehow I never
happened to hear of him till some time during the war. Then he was a sort of prophet among
them, and while he did a power of praying for you Yanks, he always counselled the colored people
to be civil and patient, and not try to run away or go to cutting up, but just to wait till
the end came. He was just right, too, and his course quieted the white folks down here on the
river, where there was a big slave population, more than a little."

"I should like to know more of him," said the chairman.

"All right," said Gleason, looking around. "If Hesden  Le Moyne is here, I'll get him to tell
you all about him, at noon. If he is not here then, he will come in before night, I'm certain."

CHAPTER VIII.

A FRIENDLY PROLOGUE.

As they went from the place of registration to their dinner at the hotel, the sheriff, walking
beside the chairman, said: "I spoke to Le Moyne about that negro fellow,  Eliab Hill, and he
says he's very willing to tell you  all he knows about him; but, as there are some private
matters connected with the story, he prefers to come to  your room after dinner, rather than
speak of it more  publicly."

"I am sure I shall be much obliged to him if he will do so," said Pardee.

"You will find him one of the very finest men you ever met, I'm thinking," continued Gleason.
"His father, Casaubon Le Moyne, was very much of a gentleman.  He came from Virginia, and was
akin to the Le Moynes of South Carolina, one of the best of those old French families that
brag so much of their Huguenot blood. I never believed in it myself, but they are a mighty
elegant family; no doubt of that. I've got the notion that they were not as well off as they
might be.  Perhaps the family got too big for the estate. That would happen with these old
families, you know; but they were as high-toned and honorable as if their fore-bears  had been
kings. Not proud, I don't mean--not a bit of that--but high-spirited and hot-tempered.

"His mother was a Richards--Hester Richards--the daughter of old man Jeems Richards. The family
was a mighty rich one; used to own all up and down the river on both sides, from Red Wing to
Mulberry Hill, where Hesden now lives. Richards had a big family of boys and only one gal,
who was the youngest. The boys was all rather tough customers, I've heard say, taking after
their father, who was about as hard a man to get along with as was ever in this country. He
came from up North somewhere about 1790, when everybody thought this pea-vine country was a
sort of new Garden of Eden.  He was a well educated and capable man, but had a terrible temper.
He let the boys go to the devil their own way, just selling off a plantation now and then and
paying their debts. He had so much land that it was a good thing for him to get rid of it.
But he doted on the gal, and sent her off to school and travelled with her and give her every
sort of advantage. She was a beauty, and as sweet and good as she was pretty. How she come
to marry Casaubon Le Moyne nobody ever knew; but it's just my opinion that it was because they
loved each other, and nothing else. They certainly were the best matched couple that I ever
saw. They had but one child--this young man Hesden. His mother was always an invalid after
his birth; in fact hasn't walked a step since that time. She was a very remarkable woman. 
though, and in spite of her sickness took charge of her son's education and fitted him for
college all by herself.  The boy grew up sorter quiet like, probably on account of being in
his mother's sick room so much; but there wasn't anything soft about him, after all.

"The old man Casaubon was a Unioner--the strongest kind. Mighty few of them in this county,
which was one of the largest slave-holding counties in the State. It never had anything but
a big Democratic majority in it, in the old times. I think the old man Le Moyne, run for the
Legislature here some seven times befo're he was  elected, and then it was only on his personal
popularity. That was the only time the county ever had a Whig representative even. When the
war came on, the old man was right  down sick. I do believe he saw the end from the beginning.
I've heard him tell things almost to a fraction jest as they came out afterward. Well, the
young man Hesden, he had his father's notions, of course, but he was pluck. He couldn't have
been a Le Moyne, or a Richards either, without that. I remember, not long after the war begun--perhaps
in the second year, before the conscription came on, anyhow--he came into town riding of a
black colt that he had raised. I don't think it had been backed more than a few times, and
it was just as fine as a fiddle. I've had some fine horses myself,  and believe I know what
goes to make up a good nag, but I've never seen one that suited my notion as well as that black.
Le Moyne had taken a heap of pains with him. A lot of folks gathered 'round and was admiring
the beast, and asking questions about his pedigree and the like, when all at once a big, lubberly
fellow named Timlow--Jay Timlow--said it was a great pity that such a fine nag should belong
to a Union man an' a traitor to his country. You know, captain, that's what we called Union
men in them days. He hadn't more'n got the words out of his mouth afore Hesden hit him.  I'd
no idea he could strike such a blow. Timlow was forty pounds heavier than he, but it staggered
him back four or five steps, and Le Moyne follered him up, hitting just about as fast as he
could straighten his arm, till he dropped. The queerest thing about it was that the horse follered
right along, and when Timlow come down with his face all battered up, and Le Moyne wheeled
about and started over to the Court House, the horse kept on follerin' him up to the very steps.
Le Moyne went into the Court House and stayed about ten minutes. Then he came out and walked
straight across the square to where the crowd was around Timlow, who had been washing the blood
off his face at the pump. Le Moyne was as white as a sheet, and Timlow was jest a-cussing his
level best about what he would do when he sot eyes on him again. I thought there might be more
trouble, and I told Timlow to hush his mouth--I was a deputy then--and then I told Le Moyne
he mustn't come any nearer. He was only a few yards away, with a paper in his hand, and that
horse just behind him. He stopped when I called him, and said:

"'You needn't fear my coming for any further difficulty, gentlemen. I merely want to say'--and
he held up the paper--' that I have enlisted in the army of the Confederate States, and taken
this horse to ride--given him to the Government. And I want to say further, that if Jay Timlow
wants to do any fighting, and will go and enlist, I'll furnish him a horse, too.'

"With that he jumped on his horse and rode away, followed  by a big cheer, while Jay Timlow
stood on the pump platform sopping his head with his handkerchief, his eyes as big as saucers,
as they say, from surprise. We were all surprised, for that matter. As soon as we got over
that a little we began to rally Timlow over the outcome of his little fracas. There wasn't
no such timber in him as in young Le Moyne, of course--a big beefy fellow--but he couldn't
stand that, and almost before we had got well started he put on his hat, looked round at the
crowd a minute, and said, 'Damned if I don't do it!' He marched straight over to the Court
House and did it, too.

"Le Moyne stood up to his bargain, and they both went out in the same company a few days afterward.
They became great friends, and they do say the Confederacy had mighty few better soldiers than
those two boys. Le Moyne was offered promotion time and again, but he wouldn't take it. He
said he didn't like war, didn't believe in it, and didn't want no responsibility  only for
himself. Just about the last fighting they  had over about Appomattox--perhaps the very day
before  the Surrender--he lost that horse and his left arm a-fighting over that same Jay Timlow,
who had got a ball in the leg, and Le Moyne was trying to keep him out of the hands of you Yanks.

"He got back after a while, and has been living with his mother on the old plantation ever
since. He married a cousin just before he went into the service--more to have somebody to leave
with his ma than because he wanted a wife, folks said. The old man, Colonel Casaubon,  died
during the war. He never seemed like himself  after the boy went into the army. I saw him once
or twice, and I never did see such a change in any man.  Le Moyne's wife died, too. She left
a little boy, who with Le Moyne and his ma are all that's left of the family.  I don't reckon
there ever was a man thought more of his mother, or had a mother more worth setting store by,
than Hesden Le Moyne."   They had reached the hotel when this account was concluded, and after
dinner the sheriff came to the captain's room and introduced a slender young man in neatly
fitting jeans, with blue eyes, a dark brown beard, and an empty coat-sleeve, as Mr. Hesden
Le Moyne.

He put his felt hat under the stump of his left arm and extended his right hand as he said simply:

"The sheriff said you wished to see me about Eliab  Hill."

"I did," was the response; "but after what he has told me, I desired to see you much more for
yourself."

The sheriff withdrew, leaving them alone together, and they fell to talking of army life at
once, as old soldiers always will, each trying to locate the other in the strife which they
had passed through on opposite sides.

CHAPTER IX.

A BRUISED REED.

"Eliab Hill," said Le Moyne, when they came at length to the subject in relation to which the
interview had been solicited, "was born the slave of Potem Desmit,  on his plantation Knapp-of-Reeds,
in the lower part of the county. His mother was a very likely woman, considerable darker than
he, but still not more than a quadroon, I should say. She was brought from Colonel Desmit's
home plantation to Knapp-of-Reeds some little time before her child was born. It was her first
child, I believe, and her last one. She was a very slender  woman, and though not especially
unhealthy, yet never strong, being inclined to consumption, of which she finally died. Of course
his paternity is unknown, though rumor has not been silent in regard to it. It is said that
a stubborn refusal on his mother's part to reveal  it led Colonel Desmit, in one of his whimsical
moods, to give the boy the name he bears. However, he was as bright a child as ever frolicked
about a plantation till he was some five or six years old. His mother had been a house-servant
before she was sent to Knapp-of-Reeds, and being really a supernumerary there, my father hired
her a year or two afterward as a nurse for my mother, who has long been an invalid, as you
may be aware."

His listener nodded assent, and he went on:

"Her child was left at Knapp-of-Reeds, but Saturday nights it was brought over to stay the
Sunday with her, usually by this boy Nimbus, who was two or three years older than he. The
first I remember of his misfortune was one Saturday, when Nimbus brought him over in a gunny-sack,
on his back. It was not a great way, hardly half a mile, but I remember thinking that it was
a pretty smart tug for the little black rascal. I was not more than a year or two older than
he, myself, and not nearly so strong.

"It seems that something had happened to the boy, I never knew exactly what--seems to me it
was a cold resulting from some exposure, which settled in his legs, as they say, producing
rheumatism or something of that kind--so that he could not walk or hardly stand up. The boy
Nimbus had almost the sole charge of him during the week, and of course he lacked for intelligent
treatment.  In fact, I doubt if Desmit's overseer knew anything  about it until it was too
late to do any good. He was a bright, cheerful child, and Nimbus was the same dogged, quiet
thing he is now. So it went on, until his mother, Moniloe, found that he had lost all use of
his legs. They were curled up at one side, as you saw them, and while his body has developed
well they have grown but little in comparison.

"Moniloe made a great outcry over the child, to whom she was much attached, and finally wrought
upon my father and mother to buy herself and her crippled boy.  Colonel Desmit, on whom the
burden of his maintenance would fall, and who saw no method of making him self-supporting,
was willing to sell the mother on very moderate terms if my father would take the child and
guarantee  his support. This was done, and they both became my father's property. Neither forgot
to be grateful.  The woman was my mother's faithful nurse until after the war, when she died,
and I have never been able to fill her place completely, since. I think Eliab learned his letters,
and perhaps to read a little, from me. He was almost always in my mother's room, being brought
in and set down upon a sheepskin on one side the fireplace in the morning by his mammy. My
mother had great sympathy  with his misfortune, the more, I suppose, because of her own very
similar affliction. She used to teach him to sew and knit, and finally, despite the law, began
to encourage him to read. The neighbors, coming in and finding him with a book in his hands,
began to complain of it, and my father, in order to silence all such murmurs, manumitted him
square out and gave bonds for his support, as the law required.

"As he grew older he remained more and more in his mother's cabin, in one corner of which she
had a little elevated platform made for him. He could crawl around the room by means of his
hands, and had great skill in clambering about by their aid. When he was about fifteen  a shoemaker
came to the house to do our plantation work. Eliab watched him closely all the first day; on
the second desired to help, and before the month had passed was as good a shoemaker as his
teacher. From that time he worked steadily at the trade, and managed very greatly to reduce
the cost of his support.

"He was a strange boy, and he and this fellow Nimbus  were always together except when prevented
by the latter's tasks. A thousand times I have known Nimbus  to come over long after dark and
leave before daylight,  in order to stay with his friend over night. Not unfrequently he would
carry him home upon his back and keep him for several days at Knapp-of-Reeds, where both were
prime favorites, as they were with us also. As they grew older this attachment became stronger.
Many's the time I have passed there and seen Nimbus working in the tobacco and Eliab with his
hammers and lasts pounding away under a tree near by. Having learned to read, the man was anxious
to know more. For a time he was indulged, but as the hot times just preceding the war came
on, it became indiscreet for him to be seen with a book.

"While he was still very young he began to preach, and his ministrations were peculiarly prudent
and sensible.  His influence with his people, even before emancipation,  was very great, and
has been increased by his correct and manly conduct since. I regard him, sir, as one of the
most useful men in the community.

"For some reason, I have never known exactly what, he became anxious to leave my house soon
after Nimbus' return from the army, although I had offered him the free use of the little shop
where he and his mother had lived, as long as he desired. He and Nimbus, by some hook or crook,
managed to buy the place at Red Wing. It was a perfectly barren piney old-field then, and not
thought of any account except for the timber there was on it. It happened to be at the crossing
of two roads, and upon a high sandy ridge, which was thought to be too poor to raise peas on.
The man who sold it to them--their old master Potem Desmit--no doubt thought he was getting
two or three prices for it; but it has turned out one of the best tobacco farms in the county.
It is between two very rich sections, and in a country having a very large colored population,
perhaps the largest in the county, working the river plantations on one side and the creek
bottoms on the other. I have heard that Nimbus  takes great credit to himself for his sagacity
in foreseeing  the capabilities of Red Wing. If he really did detect its value at that time,
it shows a very fine judgment  and accounts for his prosperity since. Eliab Hill affirms this
to be true, but most people think he does the planning for the whole settlement. Nimbus has
done extremely well, however. He has sold off, I should judge, nearly half his land, in small
parcels, has worked hard, and had excellent crops. I should not wonder, if his present crop
comes off well and the market holds on, if before Christmas he were worth as many thousands
as he had hundreds the day he bought that piney old-field.  It don't take much tobacco at a
dollar a pound, which his last crop brought, lugs and all, to make a man that does his own
work and works his own land right well off. He's had good luck, has worked hard, and has either
managed well or been well advised; it don't matter  which.

"He has gathered a good crowd around him too, sober, hard-working men; and most of them have
done well too. So that it has become quite a flourishing little settlement.  I suppose there
are some fifty or sixty families live there. They have a church, which they use for a school-house,
and it is by a great deal the best school-house in the county too. Of course they got' outside
help, some from the Bureau, I reckon, and more perhaps from some charitable association. I
should think the church or school-house must have cost fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars.
They have a splendid school.  Two ladies from the North are teaching there--real ladies, I
should judge, too."

The listener smiled at this indorsement.

"I see," said Le Moyne, "it amuses you that I should qualify my words in that manner. It seems
unneccessary to you."

"Entirely so."

"Well, it may be; but I assure you, sir, we find it hard to believe that any one who will come
down here and teach niggers is of very much account at home."

"They are generally of the very cream of our Northern  life," said the other. "I know at this
very time the daughters of several prominent clergymen, of two college professors, of a wealthy
merchant, of a leading manufacturer, and of several wealthy farmers, who are teaching  in these
schools. It is missionary work, you see--just as much as going to Siam or China. I have never
known a more accomplished, devoted, or thoroughly worthy class of ladies, and do not doubt
that these you speak of, well deserve your praise without qualification."

"Well, it may be," said the other dubiously; "but it is hard for us to understand, you know.
Now, they live in a little old house, which they have fixed up with flowers  and one thing
and another till it is very attractive--on the outside, at least. I know nothing about the
inside since their occupancy. It was a notable place in the old time, but had quite run down
before they came.  I don't suppose they see a white person once a month to speak to them, unless
indeed some of the officers come over from the post at Boyleston, now and then. I am sure that
no lady would think of visiting them or admitting  them to her house. I know a few gentlemen
who have visited the school just out of curiosity. Indeed, I have ridden over once myself,
and I must say it is well worth seeing. I should say there were three or four hundred scholars,
of all ages, sizes, and colors--black, brown, white apparently, and all shades of what we used
to call 'ginger-cake.' These two ladies and the man Eliab teach them. It is perfectly wonderful
how they do get on. You ought to see it."

"I certainly shall," said Pardee, "as a special duty calls me there. How would it do for a
polling-place?"

"There ought to be one there, but I should be afraid of trouble," answered Le Moyne seriously.

"Name me one or two good men for poll-holders, and I will risk any disorder."

"Well, there is Eliab. He's a good man if there ever was one, and capable too."

"How about Nimbus?"

"He's a good man too, honest as the day is long, hard-headed and determined, but he can't read
or write."

"That is strange."

"It is strange, but one of the teachers was telling me so when I was there. I think he has
got so that he can sign his first name--his only one, he insists--but that is all, and he cannot
read a word."

"I should have thought he would have been one of the first to learn that much at least."

"So should I. He is the best man of affairs among them all--has good judgment and sense, and
is always trying to do something to get on. He says he is 'too busy to get larnin', an' leaves
that and preachin' to Bre'er' 'Liab.'"   "Do they keep up their former intimacy?"

"Keep it up? 'Liab lives in Nimbus' lot, has his meals from his table, and is toted about by
Nimbus just the same as if they were still boys. Nimbus seems to think more of him than he
would of a brother--than he does of his brothers, for he has two whom he seems to care nothing
about. His wife and children are just as devoted to the cripple as Nimbus, and 'Liab, on his
part, seems to think as much of them as if they were his own.  They get along first-rate, and
are prospering finely, but I am afraid they will have trouble yet."

"Why so?"

"Oh, well, I don't know; they are niggers, you see, and our people are not used to such things."

"I hope your apprehensions are groundless."

"Well, I hope so too."

The officer looked at his watch and remarked that he must return to his duty, and after thanking
his companion  for a pleasant hour, and being invited to call at Mulberry  Hill whenever occasion
might serve, the two men  parted, each with pleasant impressions of the other.

CHAPTER X.

AN EXPRESS TRUST.

Fortunately for Nimbus, he had received scarcely anything of his pay while in the service,
and none of the bounty-money due him, until some months after the surrender,  when he was discharged
at a post near his old home. On the next day it happened that there was a sale of some of the
transportation at this post, and through the co-operation of one of his officers he was enabled
to buy a good mule with saddle and bridle for a song, and by means of these reached home on
the day after. He was so proud of his new acquisition that he could not be induced to remain
a single day with his former comrades. He had hardly more than assured himself of the safety
of his wife and children before he went to visit his old friend and playmate, Eliab Hill. 
He found that worthy in a state of great depression.

"You see," he explained to his friend, "Mister Le Moyne" (with a slight emphasis on the title)
"bery kindly offered me de use ob dis cabin's long as I might want it, and has furnished me
with nearly all I have had since the S'rrender. While my mother lived and he had her services
and a well-stocked plantation and plenty ob hands, I didn't hab no fear o' being a burden to
him.  I knew he would get good pay fer my support, fer I did de shoemakin' fer his people,
and made a good many clo'es fer dem too. Thanks to Miss Hester's care, I had learned to use
my needle, as you know, an' could do common tailorin' as well as shoemakin'. I got very little
fer my wuk but Confederate money and provisions,  which my mother always insisted that Mr.
Le Moyne should have the benefit on, as he had given me my freedom and was under bond for my
support.

"Since de S'rrender, t'ough dere is plenty ob wuk nobody has any money. Mr. Le Moyne is just
as bad off as anybody, an' has', to go in debt fer his supplies.  His slaves was freed, his
wife is dead, he has nobody to wait on Miss Hester, only as he hires a nuss; his little boy
is to take keer on, an' he with only one arm an' jest a bare plantation with scarcely any stock
left to him. It comes hard fer me to eat his bread and owe him so much when I can't do nothin'
fer him in return. I know he don't mind it, an' b'lieve he would feel hurt if he knew how I
feel about it; but I can't help it, Nimbus--I can't, no way."

"Oh, yer mustn't feel that 'ere way, Bre'er 'Liab," said his friend. "Co'se it's hard fer you
jes now, an' may be a little rough on Marse Moyne. But yer mus' member  dat atter a little
our folks 'll hev money. White folks got ter have wuk done; nebber do it theirselves; you know
dat; an' ef we does it now we's boun' ter hev pay fer it. An' when we gits money, you gits
wuk.  Jes' let Marse Moyne wait till de crap comes off, an' den yer'll make it all squar wid
him. I tell yer what, 'Liab, it's gwine ter be great times fer us niggers, now we's free. Yer
sees dat mule out dar?" he asked, pointing to a sleek bay animal which he had tied to the rack
in front of the house when he rode up.

"Yes, o' course I do," said the other, with very little interest in his voice.

"Likely critter, ain't it?" asked Nimbus, with a peculiar tone.

"Certain. Whose is it?"

"Wal, now, dat's jes edzackly de question I wuz gwine ter ax of you. Whose yer spose 'tis?"

"I'm sure I don't know. One o' Mr. Ware's?"

"I should tink not, honey; not edzackly now. Dat ar mule b'longs ter me--Nimbus! D'yer h'yer
dat,  'Liab?"

"No! Yer don't tell me? Bless de Lord, Nimbus, yer's a fortunit man. Yer fortin's made, Nimbus.
All yer's got ter do is ter wuk fer a livin' de rest of this year, an' then put in a crap of
terbacker next year, an' keep gwine on a wukkin' an' savin', an' yer fortin's made. Ther ain't
no reason why yer shouldn't be rich afore yer's fifty. Bless the Lord, Nimbus, I'se that glad
for you dat I can't find no words fer it."

The cripple stretched out both hands to his stalwart friend, and the tears which ran down his
cheeks attested the sincerity of his words. Nimbus took his outstretched hands, held them in
his own a moment, then went to the door, looked carefully about, came back again, and with
some embarrassment said,

"An' dat ain't all, Bre'er 'Liab. Jes' you look dar."

As he spoke Nimbus took an envelope from the inside pocket of his soldier jacket and laid it
on the bench where the other sat. 'Liab looked up in surprise, but in obedience to a gesture
from Nimbus opened it and counted the contents.

"Mos' five hundred dollars!" he said at length, in amazement. "Dis yours too, Bre'er Nimbus?"

"Co'se it is. Didn't I tell yer dar wuz a good time comin'?"

"Bre'er Nimbus," said Eliab solemnly, "you gib me your word you git all dis money honestly?"

"Co'se I did. Yer don't s'pose Nimbus am a-gwine ter turn thief at dis day, does yer?"

"How you get it?" asked Eliab sternly.

"How I git it?" answered the other indignantly.  "You see dem clo'es? Hain't I been a-sojerin'
nigh onter two year now? Hain't I hed pay an' bounty, an' rations too? One time I wuz cut off
from de regiment, an' 'ported missin' nigh bout fo' months afo' I managed ter git over ter
Port R'yal an' 'port fer duty, an' dey gib me money fer rations all dat time. Tell yer, 'Liab,
it all counts up. I'se spent a heap 'sides dat."

Still Eliab looked incredulous.

"You see dat discharge?" said Nimbus, pulling the document from his pocket. "You jes look at
what de paymaster writ on dat, ef yer don't b'lieve Nimbus hez hed any luck. 'Sides dat, I'se
got de dockyments h'yer ter show jes whar an' how I got dat mule."

The care which had been exercised by his officer in providing Nimbus with the written evidence
of his ownership  of the mule was by no means needless. According to the common law, the possession
of personal property is prima facie evidence of its ownership; but in those early days, before
the nation undertook to spread the aegis of equality over him, such was not the rule in the
case of the freedman. Those first legislatures, elected only by the high-minded land-owners
of the South, who knew the African, his needs and wants, as no one else could know them, and
who have always proclaimed themselves  his truest friends, enacted with especial care that
he should not "hold nor own nor have any rights of property in any horse, mule, hog, cow, steer,
or other stock," unless the same was attested by a bill of sale or other instrument of writing
executed by the former owner. It was well for Nimbus that he was armed with his "dockyments."

Eliab Hill took the papers handed him by Nimbus, and read, slowly and with evident difficulty;
but as he mastered  line after line the look of incredulity vanished, and a glow of solemn
joy spread over his face. It was the first positive testimony of actual freedom--the first
fruits of self-seeking, self-helping manhood on the part of his race which had come into the
secluded country region  and gladdened the heart of the stricken prophet and adviser.

With a sudden jerk he threw himself off his low bench, and burying his head upon it poured
forth a prayer of gratitude for this evidence of prayer fulfilled. His voice was full of tears,
and when he said "Amen," and Nimbus  rose from his knees and put forth his hand to help him
as he scrambled upon his bench, the cripple caught the hand and pressed it close, as he said:

"Bress God, Nimbus, I'se seen de time often an' often 'nough when I'se hed ter ax de Lor' ter
keep me from a-envyin' an' grudgin' de white folks all de good chances dey hed in dis world;
but now I'se got ter fight agin' covetin' anudder nigga's luck. Bress de Lor', Nimbus, I'se
gladder, I do b'lieve, fer what's come ter you dan yer be yerself. It'll do you a power of
good--you an' yours--but what good wud it do if a poor crippled  feller like me hed it? Not
a bit. Jes' git him bread an' meat, Nimbus, dat's all. Oh, de Lord knows what he's 'bout, Nimbus.
Mind you dat. He didn't give you all dat money fer nothing, an' yer'll hev ter 'count fer it,
dat you will; mighty close too, 'kase he keeps his books right. Yer must see ter dat, Bre'er
Nimbus." The exhortation was earnestly given, and was enforced with tears and soft strokings
of the dark strong hand which he still clasped in his soft and slender  ones.

"Now don't you go ter sayin' nuffin' o' dat kind, ole feller. I'se been a-tinkin' ebber sence
I got dat money dat it's jes ez much 'Liab's ez'tis mine. Ef it hadn't been fer you I'd nebber
knowed 'nough ter go ober to de Yanks, when ole Mahs'r send me down ter wuk on de fo'tifications,
an' so I neber git it at all. So now, yer see, Bre'er 'Liab, you's gwine ter keep dat 'ere
money. I don't feel half safe wid it nohow, till we find out jes what we wants ter do wid it.
I 'lows dat we'd better buy a plantation somewheres. Den I kin wuk it, yer know, an' you kin
hev a shop, an' so we kin go cahoots, an' git along right smart. Yer see, ef we do dat, we
allers hez a livin', anyhow, an' der ain't no such thing ez spendin' an' losin' what we've got."

There was great demurrer on the part of the afflicted friend, but he finally consented to become
his old crony's banker. He insisted, however, on giving him a very formal and peculiarly worded
receipt for the money and papers which he received from him. Considering that they had to learn
the very rudiments of business, Eliab Hill was altogether right in insisting upon a scrupulous
observance of what he deemed "the form of sound words."

In speaking of the son of his former owner as "Mister,"  Eliab Hill meant to display nothing
of arrogance or disrespect. The titles "Master" and "Missus," were the badges of slavery and
inferiority. Against their use the mind of the freedman rebelled as instinctively as the dominant
race insisted on its continuance.  The "Black Codes" of 1865, the only legislative  acts of
the South since the war which were not affected in any way by national power or Northern sentiment,
made it incumbent on the freedman, whom it sought to continue in serfdom, to use this form
of address,  and denounced its neglect as disrespectful to the "Master" or "Mistress." When
these laws ceased to be operative, the custom of the white race generally was still to demand
the observance of the form, and this demand tended to embitter the dislike of the freedmen
for it. At first, almost the entire race refused. After a while the habit of generations began
to assert itself. While the more intelligent and better educated of the original stock discarded
its use entirely, the others, and the children who had grown up since emancipation, came to
use it almost interchangeably with the ordinary form of address. Thus Eliab Hill, always nervously
alive to the fact of freedom, never allowed the words to pass his lips after the Surrender,
except when talking with Mrs. Le Moyne, to whose kindness he owed so much-in early years. On
the other hand, Nimbus, with an equal aversion to everything connected  with slavery, but without
the same mental activity, sometimes dropped into the old familiar habit. He would have died
rather than use the word at another's dictation or as a badge of inferiority, but the habit
was too strong for one of his grade of intellect to break away from at once. Since the success
of the old slaveholding element of the South in subverting the governments based on the equality
of political right and power, this form of address has become again almost universal except
in the cities and large towns.

CHAPTER XI.

RED WING.

Situated on the sandy, undulating chain of low,  wooded hills which separated the waters of
two tributaries  of the Roanoke, at the point where the "big road" from the West crossed the
country road which ran northward  along the crest of the ridge, as if in search of dry footing
between the rich valleys on either hand, was the place known as Red Wing. The "big road" had
been a thoroughfare from the West in the old days before steam diverted the ways of traffic
from the trails which the wild beasts had pursued. It led through the mountain  gaps, by devious
ways but by easy grades, along the banks of the water-courses and across the shallowest fords
down to the rich lowlands of the East. It was said that the buffalo, in forgotten ages, had
marked out this way to the ever-verdant reed-pastures of the then unwooded East; that afterward
the Indians had followed his lead, and, as the season served, had fished upon the waters of
Currituck or hunted amid the romantic ruggedness of the Blue Appalachians. It was known that
the earlier settlers along the Smoky Range and on the Piedmont foot-hills  had used this thoroughfare
to take the stock and produce of their farms down to the great plantations of the East, where
cotton was king, and to the turpentine orchards of the South Atlantic shore line.

At the crossing of these roads was situated a single house, which had been known for generations,
far and near, as the Red Wing Ordinary. In the old colonial days it had no doubt been a house
of entertainment for man and beast. Tradition, very well based and universally  accepted, declared
that along these roads had marched and countermarched the hostile forces of the Revolutionary
period. Greene and Cornwallis had dragged their weary columns over the tenacious clay of this
region, past the very door of the low-eaved house, built up of heavy logs at first and covered
afterward with fat-pine siding, which had itself grown brown and dark with age. It was said
that the British regulars had stacked their arms around the trunk of the monster white-oak
that stretched its great arms out over the low dark house, which seemed to be creeping nearer
and nearer to its mighty trunk for protection, until of late years the spreading branches had
dropped their store of glossy acorns and embossed cups even on the farther slope of its mossy
roof, a good twenty yards away from the scarred and rugged bole. "Two decks and a passage"--two
moderate-sized rooms with a wide open pass-way between, and a low dark porch running along
the front--constituted all that was left of a once well-known place of public refreshment.
At each end a stone chimney, yellowish gray and of a massiveness now wonderful to behold, rose
above the gable like a shattered tower above the salient of some old fortress. The windows
still retained the little square panes and curious glazing of a century ago.  Below it, fifty
yards away to the eastward, a bold spring burst out of the granite rock, spread deep and still
and cool over its white sandy bottom, in the stone-walled inclosure  where it was confined
(over half of which stood the ample milk-house), and then gurgling along the stony outlet ran
away over the ripple-marked sands of its worn channel, to join the waters of the creek a mile away.

It was said that in the olden time there had been sheds and out-buildings, and perhaps some
tributary houses for the use of lodgers, all of which belonged to and constituted a part of
the Ordinary. Two things had deprived it of its former glory. The mart-way had changed even
before the iron horse charged across the old routes, scorning their pretty curves and dashing
in an almost direct line from mountain to sea. Increasing population had opened new routes,
which diverted the traffic and were preferred to the old way by travelers. Besides this, there
had been a feud between the owner of the Ordinary and the rich proprietor whose outspread acres
encircled on every side the few thin roods which were attached to the hostel, and when the
owner thereof died and the property, in the course of administration, was put upon the market,
the rich neighbor bought it, despoiled it of all its accessories, and left only the one building
of two rooms below and two above, a kitchen and a log stable, with crib attached, upon the
site of the Ordinary which had vexed him so long. The others were all cleared away, and even
the little opening around the Ordinary was turned out to grow up in pines and black-jacks,
all but an acre or two of garden-plot behind the house.  The sign was removed, and the overseer
of Colonel Walter  Greer, the new owner, was installed in the house, which thenceforth lost
entirely its character as an inn.

In the old days, before the use of artificial heat in the curing of tobacco, the heavy, coarse
fibre which grew upon rich, loamy bottom lands or on dark clayey hillsides was chiefly prized
by the grower and purchaser of that staple.  The light sandy uplands, thin and gray, bearing
only stunted pines or a light growth of chestnut and clustering  chinquapins, interspersed
with sour-wood, while here and there a dogwood or a white-coated, white-hearted hickory grew,
stubborn and lone, were not at all valued as tobacco lands. The light silky variety of that
staple was entirely unknown, and even after its discovery was for a longtime unprized, and
its habitat and peculiar characteristics little understood. It is only since the war of Rebellion
that its excellence has been fully appreciated and its superiority established. The timber
on this land was of no value except as wood and for house-logs.  Of the standard timber tree
of the region, the oak, there was barely enough to fence it, should that ever be thought desirable.
Corn, the great staple of the region next to tobacco, could hardly be "hired" to grow upon
the "droughty" soil of the ridge, and its yield of the smaller grains, though much better,
was not sufficient to tempt the owner of the rich lands adjacent to undertake its cultivation.
This land itself, he thought, was only good "to hold the world together" or make a "wet-weather
road" between the rich tracts on either hand. Indeed, it was a common saying in that region
that it was "too poor even to raise a disturbance upon."

To the westward of the road running north and south there had once been an open field of some
thirty or forty acres, where the wagoners were wont to camp and the drovers to picket their
stock in the halcyon days of the old hostelry. It had been the muster-ground of the militia
too, and there were men yet alive, at the time of which we write, whose fathers had mustered
with the county forces on that ground. When it was "turned out," however, and the Ordinary
ceased to be a place of entertainment, the pines shot up, almost as thick as grass-blades in
a meadow, over its whole expanse. It is strange how they came there. Only black-jacks and the
lighter decidua which cover such sandy ridges had grown there before, but after these were
cleared away by the hand of man and the plow for a few years had tickled the thin soil, when
nature again resumed her sway, she sent a countless army of evergreens, of mysterious origin,
to take and hold this desecrated portion of her domain.  They sprang up between the corn-rows
before the stalks had disappeared from sight; they shot through the charred embers of the deserted
camp-fire; everywhere, under the shade of each deciduous bush, protected by the shadow of the
rank weeds which sprang up where the stock had fed, the young pines grew, and protected others,
and shot slimly up, until their dense growth shut out the sunlight and choked the lately protecting
shrubbery.  Then they grew larger, and the weaker ones were overtopped by the stronger and
shut out from the sunlight and starved to death, and their mouldering fragments mingled with
the carpet of cones and needles which became thicker and thicker under their shade, until at
the beginning of the war a solid, dark mass of pines fit for house-logs, and many even larger,
stood upon the old muster-field, and constituted the chief value of the tract of two hundred
acres which lay along the west side of the plantation of which it formed a part.    It was
this tract that Nimbus selected as the most advantageous location for himself and his friend
which he could find in that region. He rightly judged that the general estimate of its poverty
would incline the owner to part with a considerable tract at a very moderate price, especially
if he were in need of ready money, as Colonel Desmit was then reputed to be, on account of
the losses he had sustained by the results of the war. His own idea of its value differed materially
from this, and he was thoroughly convinced that, in the near future, it would be justified.
He was cautious about stating the grounds of this belief even to Eliab, having the natural
fear of one unaccustomed to business that some other person would get wind of his idea and
step into his Bethesda while he, himself, waited for the troubling of the waters.

He felt himself quite incompetent to conduct the purchase,  even with Eliab's assistance, and
in casting about for some white man whom they could trust to act as their agent, they could
think of no one but Hesden Le Moyne.  It was agreed, therefore, that Eliab should broach the
matter to him, but he was expressly cautioned by Nimbus  to give him no hint of the particular
reasons which led them to prefer this particular tract or of their means of payment, until
he had thoroughly sounded him in regard to the plan itself. This Eliab did, and that gentleman,
while approving the plan of buying a plantation, if they were able, utterly condemned the idea
of purchasing a tract so notoriously worthless, and refused to have anything to do with so
wild a scheme. Eliab, greatly discouraged, reported  this fact to his friend and urged the
abandonment of the plan. Nimbus, however, was stubborn and declared that "if Marse Hesden would
not act for him he would go to Louisburg and buy it of Marse Desmit himself."

"Dar ain't no use o' talkin', 'Liab," said he. "You an' Marse Hesden knows a heap more'n I
does 'bout most things; dar ain't no doubt 'bout dat 'an nobody knows it better'n I does. But
what Nimbus knows, he knows, an' dat's de eend on't. Nobody don't know it any better. Now,
I don't know nuffin' 'bout books an' de scripter an' sech-like, only what I gits second-hand--no
more'n you does 'bout sojerin', fer instance. But I tell ye what, 'Liab, I does know 'bout
terbacker, an' I knows all about it, too. I kin jes' gib you an' Marse Hesden, an' aheap mo'
jes like you uns, odds on dat, an' beat ye all holler ebbery time. What I don't know 'bout
dat ar' crap dar ain't no sort ob use a tryin' to tell me. I got what I knows de reg'lar ole-fashioned
way, like small-pox, jes by 'sposure, an' I tell yer 'Liab, hit beats any sort ob 'noculation
all ter rags. Now, I tell you, 'Liab Hill, dat ar' trac' ob lan' 'bout dat ole Or'nery is jes'
de berry place we wants, an' I'm boun' ter hev it, ef it takes a leg. Now you heah dat, don't yer?"

Eliab saw that it was useless for him to combat this determination. He knew the ruggedness
of his friend's character and had long ago learned, that he could only be turned from a course,
once fixed upon in his own mind, by presenting some view of the matter which had not occurred
to him before. He had great confidence in Mr. Le Moyne's judgment--almost as much as in Nimbus',
despite his admiration for his herculean comrade--so he induced his friend to promise that
nothing more should be done about the matter until he could have an opportunity  to examine
the premises, with which he was not as familiar as he would like to be, before it was altogether
decided. To this Nimbus readily consented, and soon afterwards he borrowed a wagon and took
Eliab, one pleasant day in the early fall, to spy out their new Canaan.  When they had driven
around and seen as much of it as they could well examine from the vehicle, Nimbus drove to
a point on the east-and-west road just opposite the western part of the pine growth, where
a sandy hill sloped gradually to the northward and a little spring burst out of it and trickled
across the road.

"Dar," he said, waving his hand toward the slope; "dar is whar I wants my house, right 'longside
ob dat ar spring, wid a good terbacker barn up on de hill dar."

"Why, what do yer want ter lib dar fer?" asked the other in surprise, as he peered over the
side of the wagon, in which he sat upon a thick bed of fodder which Nimbus had spread over
the bottom for his comfort.

"Kase dat ar side-hill am twenty-five acres ob de best terbacker groun' in Ho'sford County."

"Yer don't say so, Nimbus?"

"Dat's jes what I do say, 'Liab, an' dat's de main reason  what's made me so stubborn 'bout
buyin' dis berry track of lan'. Pears ter me it's jes made fer us. It's all good terbacker
lan', most on't de berry best. It's easy clar'd off an' easy wukked. De 'backer growed on dis
yer lan' an' cured wid coal made outen dem ar pines will be jes es yaller ez gold an' as fine
ez silk, 'Liab. I knows; I'se been a watchin' right smart, an' long ago, when I used ter pass
by here, when dey fust begun ter vally de yaller terbacker, I used ter wonder dat some pore
white man like Marse War', dat knowed how ter raise an' cure terbacker,  didn't buy de ole
place an' wuk for demselves, 'stead ob overseein' fer somebody else. It's quar dey nebber t'ought
on't. It allers seemed ter me dat I wouldn't ax fer nothin' better."

"But what yer gwine ter do wid de ole house?" asked Eliab.

"Wal, Bre'er Liab," said Nimbus with a queer  grimace, "I kinder 'llowed dat I'd ler you hab
dat ar ter do wid jes 'bout ez yer like."

"Oh, Bre'er Nimbus, yer don't mean dat now?"

"Don't I? wal, you jes see ef I don't. I'se gwine ter lib right h'yer, an' ef yer don't occupy
dat ole Red Wing Or'nery I'm durned ef it don't rot down. Yer heah dat man? Dar don't nobody
else lib in it, shuah."

Eliab was very thoughtful and silent, listening to Nimbus' comments and plans until finally,
as they sat on the porch of the old house eating their "snack," he said,

"Nimbus, dar's a heap ob cullud folks libbin' jes one way an' anudder from dis yer Red Wing
cross-roads."

"Co'se dey is, an' dat's de berry reason I'se sot my heart on yer habbin' a shop right h'yer.
Yer shore ter git de wuk ob de whole country roun', an' der's mo' cullud folks right up an'
down de creek an' de ribber h'yer dan ennywhar hereabouts dat I knows on."

"But, Nimbus--" said he, hesitatingly.

"Yis, 'Liab, I hears ye."

"Couldn't we hab a church here?"

"Now yer's talkin'," exclaimed Nimbus. "Swar ter God, it's quare I nebber tink ob dat, now.
An' you de minister? Now yer is talkin', shuah! Why de debble I nebber tink ob dat afo'? Yer
see dem big pines dar, straight ez a arrer an' nigh 'bout de same size from top ter bottom?
What yer s'pose dem fer, 'Liab? Dunno?  I should tink not. House logs fer de church, 'Liab.
Make it jes ez big ez yer wants. Dar 'tis. Only gib me some few shingles an' a flo', an' dar
yer hev jes ez good a church ez de 'postles ebber hed ter preach in."

"An' de school, Nimbus?" timidly.

"Shuah 'nough. Why I nebber tink ob dat afo'? An' you de teacher! Now you is talkin', 'Liab,
certain shuah! Dat's jes de ting, jes what we wants an' hez got ter hev. Plenty o' scholars
h'yer-abouts, an' de church fer a school-house an' Bre'er 'Liab fer de teacher! 'Clar fer it,
Bre'er'Liab, you hez got ahead-piece, dat's a fac'.  Now I nebber tink of all dat togedder.
Mout hev come bimeby, little to a time, but not all to wonst like, as 'tis wid you. Lord, how
plain I sees it all now! De church an' school-house up dar on de knoll; Nimbus' house jes about
a hundred yards furder on, 'cross de road; an' on de side ob de hill de 'backer-barn; you a
teachin' an' a preachin' an' Nimbus makin' terbacker, an' Gena a-takin' comfort on de porch,
an' de young uns gittin' larnin'! Wh-o-o-p! Bre'er 'Liab, yer's a great man, shuah!"

Nimbus caught him in his strong arms and whirled him about in a frenzy of joy. When he sat
him down Eliab said quietly:

"We must get somebody else to teach for a while.  'Liab don't know 'nough ter do dat ar. I'll
go to school wid de chillen an' learn 'nough ter do it bimeby. P'raps dis what dey call de
'Bureau' mout start a school here ef you should ax 'em, Nimbus. Yer know dey'd be mighty willin'
ter 'blige a soldier, who'd been a fightin' fer 'em, ez you hev."

"I don't a know about dat ar, Bre'er'Liab, but leastaways we can't do no more'n make de trial,
anyhow."

After this visit, Eliab withdrew all opposition, not without doubt, but hoping for the best,
and trusting, prayerfully, that his friend's sanguine expectations might be justified by the
result. So it was determined that Nimbus should make the purchase, if possible, and that the
old Ordinary, which had been abandoned as a hostel on the highway to the Eastern market, be
made a New Inn upon the road which the Freedman must now take, and which should lead to liberty
and light.

CHAPTER XII.

ON THE WAY TO JERICHO.

Colonel Desmit's devotion to the idea that slave property was more profitable than any other,
and the system by which he had counted on almost limitless gain thereby, was not only overthrown
by the universal emancipation which attended the issue of the war, but certain unlocked for
contingencies placed him upon the very verge of bankruptcy. The location of his interests in
different places, which he had been accustomed, during the struggle, to look upon as a most
fortunate prevision, resulted most disastrously. As the war progressed, it came about that
those regions which were at first generally regarded as the most secure from hostile invasion
became the scene of the most devastating operations.

The military foresight of the Confederate leaders long before led them to believe that the
struggle would be concluded, or would at least reach its climax, in the Piedmont region. From
the coast to the mountains the Confederacy spanned, at this point, only two hundred miles.
The country was open, accessible from three points upon the coast, at which lodgment was early
made or might have been obtained, and only one flank of the forces marching thence toward the
heart of the Confederacy could be assailed. It was early apprehended by them that armies marching
from the coast of North Carolina, one column along the course of the Cape Fear and another
from Newberne, within fair supporting distance and converging toward the center of the State,
would constitute the most dangerous movement that could be made against the Confederacy, since
it would cut it in twain if successful; and, in order to defeat it, the Army of Virginia would
have to be withdrawn from its field of operations and a force advancing in its track from the
James would be enabled to co-operate with the columns previously mentioned.  It is instructive
to note that, upon the other side, the untrained instinct of President Lincoln was always turning
in the same direction. In perusing the field of operations his finger would always stray to
the eastern coast of North Carolina as the vital point, and no persuasions could induce him
to give up the apparently useless foothold which we kept there for more than three years without
material advantage. It was a matter of constant surprise to the Confederate military authorities
that this course was not adopted, and the final result showed the wisdom of their premonition.

Among others, Colonel Desmit had obtained an inkling of this idea, and instead of concentrating
all his destructible property in the region of his home, where, as it resulted, it would have
been comparatively secure, he pitched upon the "piney-woods" region to the south-eastward,
as the place of greatest safety.

He had rightly estimated that cotton and naval stores would, on account of the rigorous blockade
and their limited production in other countries, be the most valuable products to hold when
the period of war should end.  With these ideas he had invested largely in both, and in and
about a great factory at the falls of a chief tributary of the Pedee, he had stored his cotton;
and in the heart of that sombre-shadowed stretch of soughing pines which lies between the Cape
Fear and the Yadkin he had hidden his vast accumulation of pitch, turpentine, and resin.  Both
were in the very track of Sherman's ruthless legions. First the factory and the thousands of
bales carefully placed in store near by were given to the  flames. Potestatem Desmit had heard
of their danger, and had ridden post-haste across the rugged region to the northward in the
vain hope that his presence might somehow avert disaster. From the top of a rocky mountain
twenty miles away he had witnessed the conflagration, and needed not to be told of his loss.
Turning his horse's head to the eastward, at a country-crossing near at hand, he struck out
with unabated resolution to reach the depot of his naval stores before the arrival of the troops,
in order that he might interpose for their preservation. He had quite determined to risk the
consequences of capture in their behalf, being now fully convinced of the downfall of the Confederacy.

During the ensuing night he arrived at his destination, where he found everything in confusion
and affright. It was a vast collection of most valuable stores. For two years they had been
accumulating. It was one of the sheet-anchors which the prudent and far-seeing Potestatem Desmit
had thrown out to windward in anticipation of a coming storm. For half a mile along the bank
of the little stream which was just wide enough to float a loaded batteau, the barrels of resin
and pitch and turpentine were piled, tier upon tier, hundreds and thousands upon thousands
of them. Potestatem Desmit looked at them and shuddered at the desolation which a single torch
would produce in an instant. He felt that the chances were desperate, and he had half a mind
to apply the torch himself and at least deprive the approaching horde of the savage pleasure
of destroying his substance.  But he had great confidence in himself, his own powers of persuasion
and diplomacy. He would try them once more, and would not fail to make them serve for all they
might be worth, to save this hoarded treasure.

It was barely daylight the next morning when he was awakened by the cry, "The Yanks are coming!"
He had but a moment to question the frightened messenger, who pressed on, terror-stricken,
in the very road which he might have known would be the path of the advancing enemy, instead
of riding two miles into the heart of the boundless pine forest which stretched on either hand,
where he would have been as safe from capture as if he had been in the center of the pyramid
of Cheops.

Potestatem Desmit had his carriage geared up, and went coolly forth to meet the invaders. He
had heard much of their savage ferocity, and was by no means ignorant of the danger which he
ran in thus going voluntarily into their clutches. Nevertheless he did not falter. He had great
reliance in his personal presence. So he dressed with care, and arrayed in clean linen and
a suit of the finest broadcloth, then exceedingly rare in the Confederacy, and with his snowy
hair and beard, his high hat, his hands crossed over a gold-headed cane, and gold-mounted glasses
upon his nose, he set out upon his mission. The night before he had prudently removed from
the place every drop of spirits except a small demi-john  of old peach-brandy, which he put
under the seat of his carriage, intending therewith to regale the highest official whom he
should succeed in approaching, even though it should be the dreaded Sherman himself.

He had proceeded perhaps half a mile, when his carriage was all at once surrounded by a motley
crew of curiously dressed but well-armed ruffians, whose very appearance disgusted and alarmed
him. With oaths and threats the lumbering chariot, which represented in itself no little of
respectability, was stopped. The appearance of such a vehicle upon the sandy road of the pine
woods coming directly toward the advancing column struck the "bummers" with surprise. They
made a thousand inquiries of the frightened driver, and were about to remove and appropriate
the sleek span of carriage-horses when the occupant of the carriage, opening the window, thrust
out his head, and with a face flaming with indignation ordered them to desist, bestowing upon
them a volley of epithets, beginning with "rascals" and running as far into the language of
abuse as his somewhat heated imagination could carry him.

"Hello, Bill," said the bummer who was unfastening the right-wheeler, as he looked back and
saw the red face framed in a circlet of white hair and beard. "Just look at this old sunflower,
will you? I guess the old bird must think he commands this brigade. Ha! ha! ha! I say, old
fellow, when did you leave the ark?"

"And was Noah and his family well when you bid 'em good-by?" queried another.

This levity and ridicule were too much for Colonel P. Desmit to endure. He leaned out of the
carriage window, and shaking his gold-headed cane at the mirthful marauders denounced them
in language fearful in its impotent wrath.

"Take me to General Sherman, you rascals! I want to see the general!" he yelled over and over
again.

"The hell you do! Well, now, mister, don't you know that the General is too nervous to see
company to-day?  He's just sent us on ahead a bit to say to strangers that he's compelled to
refuse all visitors to-day. He gits that way sometimes, does 'Old Bill,' so ye mustn't think
hard of him, at all."

"Take me to the general, you plundering pirates!" vociferated the enraged Colonel. "I'll see
if a country gentleman travelling in his own carriage along the highway is to be robbed and
abused in this manner!"   "Robbed, did he say?" queried one, with the unmistakable brogue of
an Irishman. "Faith, it must be the gintleman has somethin' very important along wid him in
the carriage, that he's gittin' so excited about; and its meself that'll not see the gintleman
imposed upon, sure." This with a wink at his comrades. Then to the occupant of the carriage:
"What did yer honor say might be yer name, now? It's very partickler the General is about insthructin'
us ter ax the names of thim that's wantin' an' inthroduction to him, ye know?"

The solemnity of this address half deceived the irate Southron, and he answered with dignity,
"Desmit--Colonel Potestatem Desmit, of Horsford County, sir."

"Ah, d'ye hear that, b'ys? Faith, it's a kurnel it is ye've been a shtoppin' here upon the
highway! Shure it may be he's a goin' to the Gineral wid a flag of thruce, belike."

"I do wish to treat with the General," said Desmit, thinking he saw a chance to put in a favorable
word.

"An' d'ye hear that, b'ys? Shure the gintleman wants to thrate the Gineral. Faith it'll be
right glad the auld b'y'll be of a dhrap of somethin' good down here in the pine woods."

"Can I see the General, gentlemen?" asked Desmit, with a growing feeling that he had taken
the wrong course to accomplish his end. The crowd of "bummers" constantly grew larger. They
were mounted upon horses and mules, jacks and jennets, and one of them had put a "McClellan
saddle" and a gag-bit upon one of the black polled cattle which abound in that region, and
which ambled easily and briskly along with his rider's feet just brushing the low "poverty-pines"
which grew by the roadside. They wore all sorts of clothing. The blue and the gray were already
peacefully intermixed in the garments of most of them. The most grotesque variety prevailed
especially in their head-gear, which culminated in the case of one who wore a long, barrel-shaped,
slatted sun-bonnet made out of spotted calico. They were boisterous and even amusing, had they
not been well armed and apparently without fear or reverence for any authority or individual.
For the present, the Irishman was evidently in command, by virtue of his witty tongue.

"Can ye see the Gineral, Kurnel?" said he, with the utmost apparent deference; "av coorse ye
can, sir, only it'll be necessary for you to lave your carriage an' the horses and the nagur
here in the care of these gintlemen, while I takes ye to the Gineral mesilf."

"Why can I not drive on?"

"Why can't ye dhrive? Is it a Kurnel ye is, an' don't know that? Shure the cavalry an' the
arthillery an' the caysons an' one thing an' another of that kind would soon crush a chayriot
like that to flinders, ye know."

"I cannot leave my carriage," said Desmit.

"Mein Gott, shust hear him now I" said a voice on the other side, which caused Desmit to turn
with a start. A bearded German, with a pair of myoptic glasses adding their glare to the peculiar
intensity of the short-sighted gaze, had climbed upon the opposite wheel during his conversation
with Pat, and leaning half through the window was scanning carefully the inside of the carriage.
He had already one hand on the demijohn of peach-brandy  upon which the owner's hopes so much
depended.  Potetsatem Desmit was no coward, and his gold-headed cane made the acquaintance
of the Dutchman's poll before he had time to utter a word of protestation.

It was all over in a minute, then. There was a rush and a scramble. The old man was dragged
out of his carriage, fighting manfully but vainly. Twenty hands laid hold upon him. The gold-headed
cane vanished; the gold-mounted glasses disappeared; his watch leaped from his pocket, and
the chain was soon dangling at the fob of one of the still laughing marauders. Then one insisted
that his hat was unbecoming for a colonel, and a battered and dirty infantry cap with a half-obliterated
corps badge and regimental number was jammed down on his gray hairs; he was required to remove
his coat, and then another took a fancy to his vest. The one who took his coat gave him in
exchange a very ragged, greasy, and altogether disgusting cavalry jacket, much too short, and
not large enough to button. The carriage was almost torn in pieces in the search for treasure.
Swords and bayonets were thrust through the panelling; the cushions were ripped open, the cover
torn off, and every possible hiding-place examined. Then thinking it must be about his person,
they compelled him to take off his boots and stockings. In their stead a pair of almost soleless
shoes were thrown him by one who appropriated the boots.

Meantime the Irishman had distributed the contents of the demijohn, after having filled his
own canteen.  Then there was great hilarity. The taste of the "colonel" was loudly applauded;
his health was drunk, and it was finally decided to move on with him in charge. The "bummer"
who rode the polled ox had, in the mean time, shifted his saddle to one of the carriage-horses,
and kindly offered the steer to the "colonel." One who had come upon foot had already mounted
the other horse. The driver performed a last service for his master, now pale, trembling, and
tearful at the insults and atrocities he was called on to undergo, by spreading one of the
carriage cushions over the animal's back and helping the queerly-habited potentate to mount
his insignificant steed. It was better than marching through the hot sand on foot, however.

When they reached the little hamlet which had grown up around his collection of turpentine
distilleries they saw a strange sight. The road which bore still further to the southward was
full of blue-coated soldiers, who marched along with the peculiar swinging gait which marked
the army that "went down to the sea." Beyond the low bridge, under a clump of pines which had
been spared for shade, stood a group of horsemen, one of whom read a slip of paper, or rather
shouted its contents to the soldiery as they passed, while he flourished the paper above his
head.  Instantly the column was in an uproar. Caps were thrown into the air, voices grew hoarse
with shouting; frantic gesticulation, tearful eyes and laughter, yells, inane antics, queer
combinations of sacrilegious oaths and absurd embraces were everywhere to be seen and heard.

"Who is that?" asked Desmit of the Irishman, near whom he had kept, pointing to the leading
man of the group under the tree.

"Faith, Kurnel, that is Gineral-----. Would ye like an inthroduction, Kurnel?"

"Yes, yes," said Desmit impatiently.

"Thin come wid me. Shure I'll give ye one, an' tell him ye sint him a dhrink of auld pache
to cilebrate the good news with. Come along, thin!"

Just as they stepped upon the bridge Desmit heard a lank Hoosier ask,

"What is in them bar'ls?"

And some one answered,

"Turpentine."

"Hooray!" said the first. "A bonfire!"   "Hurry! hurry!" Desmit cried to his guide.

"Come on thin, auld gintleman. It's mesilf that'll not go back on a man that furnishes a good
dhram for so joyful an occasion."

They dismounted, and, pressing their way through the surging mass on the bridge, approached
the group under the pines.

"Gineral," said the Irishman, taking off the silk hat which Desmit had worn and waving it in
the air; "Gineral, I have the honor to inthroduce to ye anl auld gintleman--one av the vera
furst families--that's come out to mate ye, an' begs that ye'll taste jest a dhrap av the finest
auld pache that ivver ran over yer tongue, jist ter cilebrate this vera joyful occasion,"

He waved his hat toward Desmit, and handed up his canteen at once. The act was full of the
audacity of his race, but the news had overthrown all sense of discipline.  The officer even
lifted the canteen to his lips, and no doubt finding Pat's assertion as to its quality to be
true allowed a reasonable quantity of its aromatic contents to glide down his throat, and then
handed it to one of his companions.

"General! General!" shrieked Desmit in desperation, as he rushed forward.

"What do you want, sir?" said the officer sternly.

There was a rush, a crackle, and a still louder shout.

Both turned and saw a tongue of red flame with a black, sooty tip leap suddenly skyward. The
great mass of naval stores was fired, and no power on earth could save a barrel of them now.
Desmit staggered to the nearest tree, and faint and trembling watched the flame.  How it raged!
How the barrels burst and the liquid flame poured over the ground and into the river! Still
it burned! The whole earth seemed aflame! How the black billows of heavy smoke poured upward,
hiding the day! The wind shifted and swept the smoke-wave over above the crowding, hustling,
shouting column. It began to rain, but under the mass of heavy smoke the group at the pines
stood dry.

And still, out of the two openings in the dark pines upon the other side of the stream, poured
the two blue-clad, steel-crowned columns! Still the staff officer shouted the glad tidings,
"Lee--surrendered--unconditionally.'" Still waved aloft the dispatch! Still the boundless forests
rang with shouts!

One who looked upon the scene thinks of it always when he reads of the last great day--the
boundless flame--the fervent heat--the shouts--the thousands like the sands of the sea--all
are not to be forgotten until the likeness merges into the dread reality!

The Irishman touched Desmit as he leaned against the pine.

"War that yours, misther?" he asked, not unkindly.

Desmit nodded affirmatively.

"Here," said the other, extending his canteen.  "There's a drink left. Take it."

Desmit took it with a trembling hand, and drained it to the last drop.

"That's right," said the Irishman sympathetically.  "I'm right sorry for ye, misther, that
I am; but don't ye nivver give up heart. There's more turpentine where that come from, and
this thing's over now. I couldn't find yer bull for ye, mister, but here's a mule. Ye'd better
jest take him and git away from here before this row's over. Nobody'll miss ye now."

Two weeks afterward a queerly clad figure rode up to the elegant mansion of Colonel Potestatem
Desmit, overlooking the pleasant town of Louisburg in the county of Horsford, and found a party
of Federal officers lounging upon his wide porches and making merry after war's alarums!

CHAPTER XIII.

NEGOTIATING A TREATY.

Not only did Colonel Desmit lose his cotton and naval stores; but the funds which he had invested,
with cautious foresight, in the bonds of the State and the issues of its banks, were also made
worthless by the result of the war. Contrary to the expectations of the most prudent and far-seeing,
the bonds issued by the States in rebellion during the period of war, were declared to be attaint
with treason, and by the supreme power of the land were forbidden to be paid. In addition to
this he found himself what was properly termed "land-poor." The numerous small plantations
which he had acquired in different parts of the country, in pursuance of his original and inherited
design of acquiring wealth by slave-culture, though intrinsically very valuable, were just
at this time in the highest degree unavailable. All lands had depreciated to a considerable
extent, but the high price of cotton had tempted many Northern settlers and capitalists into
that belt of country where this staple had been most successfully raised, and their purchases,
as well as the continued high price of the staple, had kept up the prices of cotton-lands far
beyond all others.

Then, too, the lack of ready money throughout the country and the general indebtedness made
an absolute dearth of buyers. In the four years of war there had been no collections. The courts
had been debarred from judgment and execution. The sheriff had been without process, the lawyer
without fees, the creditor without his money. Few indeed had taken advantage of this state
of affairs to pay debts. Money had been as plenty as the forest leaves in autumn, and almost
as valueless. The creditor had not desired to realize on his securities, and few debtors had
cared to relieve themselves. There had come to be a sort of general belief that when the war
ended there would be a jubilee for all debtors--that each one would hold what he had, and that
a promise to pay would no more trouble or make afraid even the most timid soul. So that when
the courts came to be unchained and the torrent of judgments and executions poured forth under
their seals, the whole country was flooded with bankruptcy. Almost nobody could pay. A few,
by deft use of present advantages, gathered means to discharge their own liabilities and take
advantage of the failure of others to do so. Yet they were few indeed. On every court-house
the advertisements of sale covered the panels of the door and overflowed upon the walls. Thousands
of homesteads, aye, hundreds of thousands of homes--millions of acres--were sold almost for
a song--frequently less than a shilling an acre, generally less than a dollar.

Colonel Desmit had not been an exception to these rules. He had not paid the obligations maturing
during the war simply because he knew he could not be compelled to do so. Instead of that,
he had invested his surplus in lands, cotton, and naval stores. Now the evil day was not far
off, as he knew, and he had little to meet it. Nevertheless he made a brave effort. The ruggedness
of the disowned family of Smiths and the chicanery inherited from the gnarly-headed and subtle-minded
old judge came to his rescue, and he determined not to fail without a fight. He shingled himself
with deeds of trust and sales under fraudulent judgments or friendly liens, to delay if they
did not avert calamity.  Then he set himself at work to effect sales. He soon swallowed his
wrath and appealed to the North--the enemy to whom he owed all his calamities, as he thought.
He sent flaming circulars to bleak New England health-exhibits to the smitten of consumption,
painting the advantages of climate, soil, and society--did all in his power to induce immigrants
to come and buy, in order that he might beat off poverty and failure and open disgrace.  He
made a brave fight, but it had never occurred to him to sell an acre to a colored man when
he was accosted by Nimbus, who, still wearing some part of his uniform, came, over to negotiate
with him for the purchase of Red Wing.

All these untoward events had not made the master of Knapp-of-Reeds peculiarly amiable, or
kindly disposed toward any whom he deemed in the remotest manner responsible for his loss.
For two classes he could not find words sufficient to express his loathing--namely, Yankees
and Secessionists. To the former directly and to the latter indirectly he attributed all his
ills. The colored man he hated as a man, as bitterly as he had before highly prized him as
a slave. At the outset of the war he had been openly blamed for his coolness toward the cause
of the Confederacy. Then, for a time, he had acquiesced in what was done--had "gone with his
State," as it was then expressed--and still later, when convinced of the hopelessness of the
struggle, he had advocated peace measures; to save his property at all hazards, some said;
because he was at heart a Unionist, others declared So, he had come to regard himself as well
disposed toward the Union, and even had convinced himself that he had suffered persecution
for righteousness' sake, when, in truth, his "Unionism" was only an investment made to avoid loss.

These things, however, tended to embitter him all the more against all those persons and events
in any manner connected with his misfortunes. It was in such a mood and under such circumstances,
that word was brought to Mr. Desmit in his private library, that "a nigger" wanted to see him.
The servant did not know his name, what he wanted, or where he came from.  She could only say
that he had ridden there on a "right peart mule" and was a "right smart-looking boy." She was
ordered to bring him in, and Nimbus stood before his master for the first time since he had
been sent down the country to work on fortifications intended to prevent the realization of
his race's long-delayed vision of freedom.  He came with his hat in his hand, saying respectfully,

"How d'ye, Marse Desmit?"

"Is that you, Nimbus? Get right out of here! I don't want any such grand rascal nigger in my
house."

"But, Marse Desrnit," began the colored man, greatly flurried by this rude greeting.

"I don't want any 'buts.' Damn you, I've had enough of all such cattle. What are you here for,
anyhow?  Why don't you go back to the Yankees that you ran away to? I suppose you want I should
feed you, clothe you, support you, as I've been doing for your lazy wife and children ever
since the surrender. I shan't do it a day longer--not a day! D'ye hear? Get off from my land
before the sun goes down to-morrow or I'll have the overseer set his dogs on you."

"All right," said Nimbus coolly; "jes yer pay my wife what's due her and we'll leave ez soon
ez yer please."

"Due her? You damned black rascal, do you stand there and tell me I owe her anything?"

Strangely enough, the colored man did not quail. His army life had taught him to stand his
ground, even against a white man, and he had not yet learned how necessary it was to unlearn
the lesson of liberty and assume again the role of the slave. The white man was astounded.
Here was a "sassy nigger" indeed! This was what freedom did for them!

"Her papers dat you gib her at de hirin', Marse Potem," said Nimbus, "says dat yer shall pay
her fo' dollars a month an' rations. She's hed de rations all reg'lar, Marse Desrnit; dat's
all right, but not a dollar ob de money."

"You lie, you black rascal!" said Desmit excitedly; "she's drawn every cent of it!"

"Wal," said Nimbus, "ef dat's what yer say, we'll hev ter let de 'Bureau' settle it."

"What, sir? You rascal, do you threaten me with the 'Bureau'?" shouted Desmit, starting toward
him in a rage, and aiming a blow at him with the heavy walking-stick  he carried.

"Don't do dat, Marse Desmit," cried the colored man; "don't do dat!"

There was a dangerous gleam in his eye, but the white man did not heed the warning. His blow
fell not on the colored man's head, but on his upraised arm, and the next moment the cane was
wrested from his hands, and the recent slave stood over his former master as he lay upon the
floor, where he had fallen or been thrown, and said:

"Don't yer try dat, Marse Desmit; I won't bar it--dat I won't, from no man, black ner white.
I'se been a sojer sence I was a slave, an' ther don't no man hit me a lick jes cos I'm black
enny mo'. Yer's an' ole man, Marse Desmit, an' yer wuz a good 'nough marster ter me in the
ole times, but yer mustn't try ter beat a free man. I don't want ter hurt yer, but yer mustn't
do dat!"

"Then get out of here instantly," said Desmit, rising and pointing toward the door.

"All right, Marse," said Nimbus, stooping for his hat; "'tain't no use fer ye to be so mad,
though. I jes come fer to make a trade wid ye."

"Get out of here, you damned, treacherous, ungrateful, black rascal. I wish every one of your
whole race had the small-pox! Get out!"

As Nimbus turned to go, he continued:

"And get your damned lazy tribe off from my plantation before to-morrow night, if you don't
want the dogs put on them, too!"

"I ain't afeard o' yer dogs," said Nimbus, as he went down the hall, and, mounting his mule,
rode away.

With every step his wrath increased. It was well for Potestatem Desmit that he was not present
to feel the anger of the black giant whom he had enraged. Once or twice he turned back, gesticulating
fiercely and trembling with rage. Then he seemed to think better of it, and, turning his mule
into the town a mile off his road, he lodged a complaint against his old master, with the officer
of the "Bureau," and then rode quietly home, satisfied to "let de law take its course," as
he said. He was glad that there was a law for him--a law that put him on the level with his
old master--and meditated gratefully, as he rode home, on what the nation had wrought in his
behalf since the time when "Marse Desmit" had sent him along that very road with an order to
"Marse Ware" to give him "twenty lashes well laid on." The silly fellow thought that thenceforth
he was going to have a "white man's chance in life." He did not know that in our free American
Government, while the Federal power can lawfully and properly ordain and establish the theoretical
rights of its citizens, it has no legal power to support and maintain those rights against
the encroachment of any of the States, since in those matters the State is sovereign, and the
part is greater than the whole.

CHAPTER XIV.

BORN OF THE STORM.

Perhaps there was never any more galling and hated badge of defeat imposed upon a conquered
people than the "Bureau of Freedmen, Refugees, and Abandoned Lands," a branch of the Federal
executive power which grew out of the necessities of the struggle to put down rebellion, and
to which, little by little, came to be referred very many of those matters which could by no
means be neglected, but which did not properly fall within the purview of any other branch
of military administration.    It is known, in these latter days, simply as the Freedmen's
Bureau, and thought to have been a terrible engine of oppression and terror and infamy, because
of the denunciations which the former slave-owners heaped upon it, and the usually accepted
idea that the mismanaged and malodorous Freedmen's Savings Bank was, somehow or other, an outgrowth
and exponent of this institution. The poor thing is dead now, and, like dead humanity, the
good it did has been interred with its bones. It has been buried, with curses deep and bitter
for its funeral obsequies. Its officers have been loaded with infamy. Even its wonderful results
have been hidden from the sight of man, and its history blackened with shame and hate. It is
one of the curious indices of public feeling that the North listened, at first, with good-natured
indifference to the virulent diatribes of the recently conquered people in regard to this institution;
after a time wonder succeeded to indifference; until finally, while it was still an active
branch of the public service, wondering credulity succeeded, and its name became synonymous
with disgrace; so that now there is hardly a corner of the land in which a man can be found
brave enough to confess that he wore the uniform and performed the duties of an agent of the
"Freedmen's Bureau." The thorough subserviency of Northern sentiment to the domination of that
masterly will which characterized "the South" of the old regime was never better illustrated.
"Curse me this people!" said the Southern Balak--of the Abolitionist first, of the Bureau-Officer
next, and then of the Carpet-Bagger.  The Northern Balaam hemmed and paltered, and then--cursed
the children of his loins!

Of the freedmen, our recent allies in war, the grateful and devoted friends, of the nation
which had opened for them the gateway of the future, not one of the whole four millions had
a word to utter in reproach of this branch of the service, in which they were particularly
interested.  Strangely enough, too, none of those Union men of the South, who had been refugees
during the war or friends of that Union after its close, joined in the complaints and denunciations
which were visited on this institution and its agents. Neither did the teachers of colored
schools, nor the officers and agents of those charitable and missionary associations of the
North, whose especial work and purpose was the elevation and enlightenment of the colored man,
see fit to unite in that torrent of detraction which swept over the country in regard to the
"Bureau" and its agents. But then, it may be that none of these classes were able to judge
truly and impartially of its character and works! They may have been prepossessed in its favor
to an extent which prevented a fair and honest determination in regard to it.

Certain it is that those who stood upon the other side--those who instituted and carried on
rebellion, or the greater part of them, and every one of those who opposed reconstruction,
who fought to the last moment the enfranchisement of the black; every one who denied the right
of the nation to emancipate the slave; every one who clamored for the payment of the State
debts contracted during the war; all of those who proposed and imposed the famous "black codes,"--every
one of these classes and every man of each class avowed himself unable to find words to express
the infamy, corruption, and oppression which characterized the administration of that climacteric
outrage upon a brave, generous, overwhelmed but unconquered --forgiving but not to be forgiven,
people.

They felt themselves to have been in all things utterly innocent and guileless. The luck of
war had been  terribly against them, they considered, but the right remained with them. They
were virtuous. Their opponents had not only been the aggressors at the outset, but had shown
themselves little better than savages by the manner in which they had conducted the war; and,
to crown the infamy of their character, had imposed upon "the South" at its close that most
nefarious of all detestable forms of oppressive degradation, "the Bureau." Their orators grew
magniloquent over its tyrannical oppression; the Southern press overflowed with that marvellous
exuberance of diatribe of which they are the acknowledged masters--to all of which the complaisant
North gave a ready and subservient concurrence, until the very name reeked in the public mind
with infamous associations and degrading ideas.

A few men tried to stem the torrent. Some who had been in its service even dared to insist
that they had not thereby rendered themselves infamous and unworthy.  The nation listened for
a time with kindly pity to their indignant protests, and then buried the troublesome and persistent
clamorers in the silence of calm but considerate disbelief. They were quietly allowed to sink
into the charitable grave of unquestioning oblivion. It was not any personal attaint which
befouled their names and blasted their public prospects, but simply the fact that they had
obeyed the nation's behest and done a work assigned to them by the country's rulers. Thus it
came to pass that in one third of the country it was an ineffaceable brand of shame to have
been at any time an agent or officer of this Bureau, and throughout the rest of the country
it was accounted a fair ground for suspicion.  In it all, the conquering element was simply
the obedient indicator which recorded and proclaimed the sentiment and wish of the conquered.
The words of the enemy were always regarded as being stamped with the mint-mark of truth and
verity, while the declarations of our allies accounted so apparently false and spurious as
to be unworthy of consideration, even when attested by svvorn witnesses and written in blood
upon a page of history tear blotted and stained with savage deeds. All this was perfectly natural,
however, and arose, almost unavoidably, from the circumstances under which the institution
was created and the duties which it was called upon to discharge. It may not be amiss to consider
again the circumstances under which it came to exist.

This is how this institution had its origin: As the war to put down rebellion progressed and
our armies advanced farther and farther into the heart of the Confederacy, the most devoted
and malignant adherents of the Confederate cause abandoned their homes and all that they could
not easily take with them, and fled within the Confederate lines. Those white people who were
adverse to the Confederate cause, or at least lukewarm in its support, spurred by the rigors
of conscription and the dangers of proscription and imprisonment, took their lives in their
hands, left their homes, and fled by every available road to the shelter of the Federal forces.
Those who had no homes--the slaves--either deserted by their owners or fancying they saw in
that direction a glimmer of possible freedom, swarmed in flank and rear of every blue-clad
column which invaded the Confederacy, by thousands and tens of thousands.  They fled as the
Israelites did from the bondage of Egypt, with that sort of instinctive terror which has in
all ages led individuals, peoples, and races to flee from the scene of oppression. The whites
who came to us were called "refugees," and the blacks at first "contrabands," and after January
1, 1863, "freedmen." Of course they had to be taken care of. The "refugee" brought nothing
with him; the freedrnan had nothing to bring.  The abandoned lands of the Confederates were,
in many cases, susceptible of being used to employ and supply these needy classes who came
to us for aid and sustenance.  It was to do this that the Freedmen's Bureau was created.

Its mission was twofold--to extend the helping hand to the needy who without such aid must
have perished by disease and want, and to reduce the expenses of such charity by the cultivation
and utilization of abandoned lands. It was both a business and a missionary enterprise. This
was its work and mission until the war ended. Its "agents" were chosen from among the wounded
veteran officers of our army, or were detached from active service by reason of their supposed
fitness on account of character or attainments. Almost every one of them had won honor with
the loss of limb or of health; all had the indorsement and earnest approval of men high in
command of our armies, who had personal knowledge of their character and believed in their
fitness.  This renders it all the more remarkable that these men should so soon and so universally,
as was stoutly alleged and weakly believed, have become thieves and vagabonds --corrupters
of the blacks and oppressors of the whites.  It only shows how altogether impossible it is
to foresee the consequences of any important social or political movement upon the lives and
characters of those exposed to its influences.

When the war ended there were four millions of men, women, and children without homes, houses,
lands, money, food, knowledge, law, right, family, friends, or possibility for self-support.
All these the Bureau adopted.  They constituted a vast family of foundlings, whose care was
a most difficult and delicate matter, but there was not one among them all who complained of
the treatment they received.

It is somewhat strange, too, that the officers of this Branch of the service should have all
misbehaved in exactly the same manner. Their acts of oppression and outrage were always perpetrated
in defence of some supposed right of a defenceless and friendless race, overwhelmed with poverty--the
bondmen of ignorance--who had no money with which to corrupt, no art with which to beguile,
and no power with which to overawe these representatives of authority. For the first time in
the history of mankind, the corrupt and unprincipled agents of undefined power became the servants,
friends, protectors, agents, and promoters of the poor and weak and the oppressors of the rich,
the strong, the learned, and the astute.

It may be said that this view cannot be true; that thousands of men selected from the officers
of our citizen-soldiery by the unanswerable certificate of disabling wounds and the added prestige
of their commander's recommendation, a class of men in physical, intellectual and moral power
and attainments far superior to the average of the American people--it may be said that such
could not have become all at once infamously bad; and, if they did suffer such transformation,
would have oppressed the blacks at the instigation of the whites, who were willing and able
to pay well for such subversion of authority, and not the reverse. This would seem to be true,
but we are not now dealing with speculations, but with facts! We know that they did become
such a pest because at the South they were likened to the plagues of Egypt, and the North reiterated
and affirmed this cry and condoled with the victims of the oppression with much show of penitence,
and an unappeasable wrath toward the instruments of the iniquity. Thus the voice of the people--that
voice which is but another form of the voice of God--proclaimed these facts to the world, so
that they must thenceforth be held indisputable and true beyond the utmost temerity of scepticism.
The facts remain. The puzzling why, let whosoever will endeavor to elucidate.

Perhaps the most outrageous and debasing of all the acts of the Bureau, in the eyes of those
who love to term themselves "the South," was the fact that its officers and agents, first of
all, allowed the colored man to be sworn in opposition to and in contradiction of the word
of a white man.

That this should be exasperating and degrading to the Southern white man was most natural and
reasonable.  The very corner-stone of Southern legislation and jurisprudence for more than
a hundred years was based upon this idea: the negro can have no rights, and can testify as
to no rights or wrongs, as against a white man. So that the master might take his slave with
him when he committed murder or did any other act in contravention of law or right, and that
slave was like the mute eunuch of the seraglio, silent and voiceless before the law. Indeed,
the law had done for the slave-owner, with infinitely more of mercy and kindness, what the
mutilators of the upper Nile were wont to do for the keepers of the harems of Cairo and Constantinople--provided
them with slaves who should see and hear and serve, but should never testify of what they saw
and knew. To reverse this rule, grown ancient and venerable by the practice of generations,
to open the mouths which had so long been sealed, was only less infamous and dangerous than
to accord credence to the words they might utter. To do both was to "turn back the tide of
time," indeed, and it passed the power of language to portray the anger, disgust, and degradation
which it produced in the Southern mind. To be summoned before the officer of the Bureau, confronted
with a negro who denied his most solemn averments, and was protected in doing so by the officer
who, perhaps, showed the bias of the oppressor by believing the negro instead of the gentleman,
was unquestionably, to the Southerner, the most degrading ordeal he could by any possibility
be called upon to pass through.

From this it will be understood that Colonel Desmit passed a most uneasy night after Nimbus
had left his house. He had been summoned before the Bureau!  He had expected it. Hardly had
he given way to his petulant anger when he recognized the folly of his course. The demeanor
of the colored man had been so "sassy" and aggravating, however, that no one could have resisted
his wrath, he was sure. Indeed, now that he came to look back at it, he wondered that he had
been so considerate.  He was amazed that he had not shot the impudent rascal on the spot instead
of striking him with his walking-stick, which he was very confident was the worst that could
be urged against him. However, that was enough, for he remembered with horror that, not long
before, this same Bureau officer had actually imprisoned a most respectable and correct man
for having whipped a "nigger" at work in his crop, who had been "too sassy" to be tolerated
by any gentleman.

So it was with much trepidation that the old man went into the town the next morning, secured
the services of a lawyer, and prepared for his trial before the "Bureau." Nimbus was intercepted
as he came into town with his wife, and an attempt made to induce him to withdraw the prosecution,
but that high-minded litigant would hear nothing of the proposed compromise. He had put his
hand to the plow and would not look back. He had appealed to the law--"the Bureau" and only
"the Bureau" should decide it. So Colonel Desmit and his lawyer asked a few hours' delay and
prepared themselves to resist and disprove the charge of assault upon Nimbus.  The lawyer once
proposed to examine the papers in the case, but Desmit said that was useless--the boy was no
liar, though they must make him out one if they could.  So, at the time appointed, with his
lawyer and train of witnesses, he went before "the Bureau," and there met Nimbus and his wife,
Lugena.

"The Bureau" wore the uniform of a captain of United States infantry, and was a man about forty-five
years of age, grave and serious of look, with an empty sleeve folded decorously over his breast.
His calm blue eyes, pale, refined face, and serious air gave him the appearance of a minister
rather than a ruthless oppressor, but his reputation for cruelty among certain people was as
well established as that of Jeffreys. He greeted Mr. Desmit and his attorney with somewhat
constrained politeness, and when they were seated proceeded to read the complaint, which simply
recited that Colonel Desmit, having employed Lugena, the wife of complainant, at a given rate
per month, had failed to make payment, and had finally, without cause, ordered her off his
premises.

"Is that all?" asked the lawyer.

"That is all," answered the officer.

"Has no other complaint been lodged against Colonel Desmit?"

"None."

"We cannot--that is--we did not expect this," said the attorney, and then after a whispered
consultation with his client, he added, "We are quite willing to make this matter right. We
had entirely misunderstood the nature of the complaint."

"Have you any further complaint to make against Colonel Desmit?" asked the officer, of Nimbus.

"No," said that worthy, doubtfully. "He was pretty brash wid me, an' 'llowed ter hit me wid
a stick; but he didn't--at least not ter speak on--so I don't make no 'count ob dat. 'Twas
jes dis matter ob Lugeny's wuk dat made me bring him h'yer--nuffin' else."

"When did this matter of the stick occur?" asked the officer.

"On'y jes yeste'day, sah."

"Where was it?"

"Up ter Marse Potem's, sah. In his house."

"How did it happen?"

"Wal, you see, sah, I went up dar ter see ef I could buy a track ob lan" from him, an'--"

"What!" exclaimed Desmit, in astonishment. "You didn't say a word to me about land."

"No more I didn't," answered Nimbus, "kase yer didn't gib me no chance ter say a word 'bout
it. 'Peared like de fus sight on me made yer mad, an' den yer jes feathered away on me, spite
ob all I could do er say.  Yer see, sah," to the officer, "I'd made a bit ob money in de wah,
an' wanted ter see ef I could buy a bit ob pore lan' ob Marse Desmit--a track jes good fer
nothin on'y fer a nigga ter starve on--but afore I could git to dat Marse Desmit got so uproarous-like
dat I clean fergot what'twas I cum fer."

"There was evidently a misunderstanding," said the attorney.

"I should think so," said the officer, dryly. "You say you have no complaint to make about
that affair?" he added to Nimbus.    "No," said he; "'twan't a tingob any 'count, nohow.  I
can't make out what'twas made Marse Potem so fractious anyhow. I reckon, as he says, dar must
hev ben some mistake about it. Ef he'll fix up dis matter wid Lugena, I hain't no mo' complaint,
an' I'se mighty sorry 'bout dat, kase Marse Desmit hab allus been mighty kin' ter me--all 'cept
dis time an' once afo'."

"There's the money for the woman," said the attorney, laying some bills on the officer's table;
"and I may say that my client greatly regrets the unfortunate misunderstanding with one of
the best of his old slaves. He desires me to say that the woman's services have been entirely
satisfactory, and that she can keep right on under the contract, if she desires."

So that was settled. The officer discharged Colonel Desmit, commended Nimbus for the sensible
view he had taken of the quarrel, and the parties gave way for other matters which awaited
the officer's attention.

This would not seem to have been so very oppressive, but anything growing out of the war which
had resulted so disastrously for him was hateful to Colonel Desmit, and we should not wonder
if his grandchildren told over, with burning cheeks, the story of the affront which was offered
to their ancestor in haling him before that infamous tribunal, "the Bureau," to answer a charge
preferred by a "nigger."

CHAPTER XV.

TO HIM AND HIS HEIRS FOREVER.

After leaving the office of "the Bureau," the parties repaired to that of the lawyer, and the
trade for the land which had been so inopportunely forestalled by Colonel Desmit's hasty temper
was entered upon in earnest.  That gentleman's financial condition was such as to render the
three or four hundred dollars of ready money which Nimbus could pay by no means undesirable,
while the property itself seemed of so little value as to be regarded almost as an incumbrance
to the plantation of which it was a part. Such was its well-established reputation for poverty
of soil that Desmit had no idea that the purchaser would ever be able to meet one of his notes
for the balance of the purchase money, and he looked forward to resuming the control of the
property at no distant day, somewhat improved by the betterments which occupancy and attempted
use would compel the purchaser to make. He regarded the cash to be paid in hand as just so
much money accidentally found in his pathway, for which, in no event, was he to render any
quid pro quo. But of this he said nothing. It was not his business to look after the interests
of a "sassy nigger." In fact, he felt that the money was in a sense due to him on account of
the scurvy trick that Nimbus had played him, in deserting to the Yankees after agreeing to
look after his "niggers" on the breast-works, although, as the event proved, his master would
have gained nothing by his remaining. So the former master and slave met on the level of barter
and sale, and gave and took in the conflict of trade.

Except the small tract just about the old hostel, which has already been mentioned, the plantation,
which included Red Wing, was descended from an ancestor of the Richards family, who had come
from the North about the close of the Revolution and "entered" an immense tract in this section.
It had, however, passed out of the family by purchase, and about the beginning of the war of
Rebellion a life estate therein was held by its occupant, while the reversion belonged to certain
parties in Indiana by virtue of the will of a common ancestor. This life-tenant's necessities
compelled him to relinquish his estate, which was bought by Colonel Desmit, during the second
year of the war, together with the fee which he had acquired in the tract belonging to the
old Ordinary, not because he wanted the land about Red Wing, but because the plantation to
which it was attached was a good one, and he could buy it on reasonable terms for Confederate
currency.  He expected to treat with the Indiana heirs and obtain their respective interests
in the fee, which no doubt he would have been able to acquire very cheaply but for the intevening
accident of war, as the life-tenant was yet of middle age and the succession consequently of
little probable value to living reversioners. This, however, he had not done; but as his deed
from the life-tenant was in form an exclusive and unlimited conveyance, it had been quite forgotten
that the will of his grandfather limited it to a life estate. So when Nimbus and his friend
and counsellor, Eliab Hill, sought to negotiate the purchase of Red Wing, no mention was made
of that fact; neither was it alluded to when they came again to conclude the purchase, nor
when instructions were given to Colonel Desmit's lawyer to prepare the necessary papers.

The trade was soon brought to an apparently happy conclusion. Nimbus bought two hundred acres
at a price of eight hundred dollars, paying one half the price agreed upon in cash, and for
the balance gave three notes of equal amounts, one maturing each year thereafter, and received
from Colonel Uesmit a bond for title to the whole tract, with full covenants of warranty and
seizin. Colonel Desmit accounted the notes of little value; Nimbus prized the bond for title
above any patent of nobility. Before the first note fell due all had been discharged, and the
bond for title was exchanged for a deed in fee, duly executed. So the recent slave, who had
but lately been the subject of barter and sale, was clothed with the rights of a proprietor.

According to the former law, the slave was a sort of chattel-real. Without being attached to
the land, he was transferable from one owner to another only by deed or will. In some States
he descended as realty, in others as personalty, while in others still, he constituted a separate
kind of heritable estate, which was especially provided for in the canons of descent and statutes
regulating administration. There was even then of record in the county of Horsford a deed of
sale, bearing the hand and seal of P, Desmit, and executed little more than a year previously,
conveying to one Peyton Winburn "all the right, title, and interest of said Desmit, in and
to a certain runaway negro boy named Nimbus." The said Winburn was a speculator in slaves who
had long been the agent of Desmit in marketing his human crop, and who, in the very last hours
of the Confederacy, was willing to risk a few dollars on the result. As he well stated it to
himself, it was only staking one form of loss against another. He paid Confederate money for
a runaway negro. If the Confederacy failed, the negro would be free; but then, too, the money
would be worthless. So with grim humor he said to himself that he was only changing the form
of his risk and could not possibly lose by the result. Thus, by implication of law, the recent
subject of transfer by deed was elevated to the dignity of being a party thereto. The very
instrument of his bondage became thereby the sceptre of his power. It was only an incident
of freedom, but the difference it measured was infinite. No wonder the former slave tiembled
with elation as he received this emblem of autonomy, or that there was a look of gloom on the
face of the former master as he delivered the carefully-enrolled deed, made complete by his
hand and seal, and attested by his attorney. It was the first time the one had felt the dignity
of proprietorship, or the other had known the shame of fraud. The one thought of the bright
future which lay before his children, to whom he dedicated Red Wing at that moment in his heart,
in terms more solemn than the legal phrases in which Potestatem Desmit had guaranteed to them
the estate in fee therein. The other thought of the far-away Indiana reversioners, of whose
rights none knew aught save himself--himself and Walter Greer, who had gone away to the wilds
of Texas, and might never be heard of any more. It was the first time he had ever committed
a deliberate fraud, and when he handed the freedman the deed and said sadly, "I never expected
to come down to this," those who heard him thought he meant his low estate, and pitied his
misfortunes.  He smiled meaningly and turned hastily away, when Nimbus, forgetting his own
elation, said, in tones of earnest feeling:

"I declar, Marse Desmit, I'se sorry fer you--I is dat; an' I hopes yer'll come outen dis yer
trouble a heap better nor yer's lookin' for."

Then they separated--the one to treasure his apples of Sodom, the other to nourish the memory
of his shame.

CHAPTER XVI.

A CHILD OF THE HILLS.

"Come at once; Oscar very low."

This was the dispatch which an awkward telegraph messenger handed to the principal teacher
of "No. 5," one soft September day of 1866. He waited upon the rough stone step, while she,
standing in the doorway, read it again and again, or seemed to do so, as if she could not make
out the import of the few simple words it contained.

'No 5' was a school-house in one of the townships of Bankshire County, in the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts.  In it were taught the children, within school age, of one of those little
hamlets which have crept up the valleys of the White Mountains, toled on and on, year after
year, farther and farther up the little rivulets that dash down the mountain slopes, by the
rumble and clatter of newly-erected machinery.

These mountain streams are the magic handiwork of the nymphs and fays who for ages have lain
hidden in the springs that burst out into little lakes upon the birch-crowned summits, and
come rushing and tumbling down the rocky defiles to join the waters of the Housatuck.  School-house
No. 5 was thriftily placed on a bit of refractory land just opposite the junction of two streams
which had their rise in two lakelets miles away from each other--one lying under the shadow
of Pixey Mountain, and the other hidden among the wooded hills of Birket. They were called
"ponds," but are, in truth, great springs, in whose icy coldness the mountain trout delight.
Back of the school-house, which, indeed, was half built into it, was a sharp, rocky hillside;
across the road which ran before it was a placid pond, bordered on the farther side by a dark
fringe of evergreens that lay between it and the-wide expanse of white-armed birches and flaming
maples, now beginning to feel the autumn's breath, on the rugged mountain-side above. A little
to the left was the narrow gorge through which one of the streams discharged, its bottom studded
with ponds and mills, and its sharp sides flecked with the little white-painted homes of well-to-do
operatives; to the right and left along the other branch and the course of the united streams,
the rumble of water-wheels, the puff of laboring engines, and the groan of tortured machinery
never ceased. Machine-shops and cotton-factories, bagging-mills  and box-mills, and wrapping-mills,
and print-mills, and fine-paper-mills, and even mills for the making of those filmy creations
of marvellous texture and wonderful durability which become the representatives of value in
the form of bank-notes, were crowded into the narrow gorges. The water was fouled with chemic
combinations from source to mouth. For miles up and down one hardly got a breath of air untainted
with the fumes of chemicals. Bales of rags, loads of straw, packages of woody pulp, boxes of
ultramarine dye, pipes leading from the distant mountain springs, and, above all, the rumble
and the groaning of the beating-engines told to every sense that this was one of the great
hillside centres of paper-manufacture in New England. The elegant residences of the owners
were romantically situated on some half-isolated promonotory around which the stream sweeps,
embowered with maples and begirt with willows at its base; or nestled away in some nook, moss-lined
and hemlock-shaded, which marks where some spring brook bubbles down its brief career to the
larger stream; or in some plateau upon the other side, backed by a scraggly old orchard, and
hidden among great groves of rock-maples which the careful husbandman spared a hundred years
ago for a "sugar-bush," little dreaming that the nabobs of the rushing streams would build
homesteads beneath their shade. And all along, here and there, wherever a house could find
a foothold or the native ruggedness be forced to yield one lodgment, houses and shops and crowded
tenements stood thick. It was a busy and a populous village, full of wealth and not barren
of poverty, stretched along the rushing tributary for more than a mile, and then branching
with its constituent forks up into the mountain gorges.

In the very centre of this busy whirl of life stood the little white two-story school-house,
flanked on one side by the dwelling of a mill-owner, and on the other by a boarding-house;
and just below it, across the street, a machine-shop, and a little cottage of cased logs, with
minute-paned windows, and a stone chimney which was built before the Revolution by the first
inhabitant of the little valley. A little to the left of the school-house was a great granite
boulder, rising almost to its eaves, which had been loosened from the mountain-side two miles
up the gorge when the dam at the mouth of the pond gave way years before in a freshet, and
brought down and left, by the respectful torrent almost at the threshold of the temple of knowledge.

Such was the scene the Indian summer sun looked down upon, while the teacher stood gazing fixedly
at the message which she held. Curious faces peered out of the windows and through the door,
which she left ajar when she came into the hall. She took no note of this infraction of discipline.
"Any answer, ma'arn?" The messenger-boy shifts his weight awkwardly upon the other foot, as
he asks, but receives no reply.

For two years Mollie Ainslie, with her assistants, had dispensed the sweets of knowledge at
"No. 5," to the children of the little hamlet. The hazy morning light revealed a small, lithe
figure, scarcely taller than the messenger-boy that stood before her; a fair, white face; calm,
gray eyes; hair with a glint of golden brown, which waved and rippled about a low, broad brow,
and was gathered in a great shining coil behind; and a mouth clear-cut and firm, but now drawn
and quivering with deep emotion. The comely head was finely poised upon the slender neck, and
in the whole figure there was an air of self-reliance and power that accorded well with the
position which she held.  A simple gray dress, with a bright ribbon at the throat and a bunch
of autumn flowers carelessly tucked into the belt which circled the trim waist, completed the
picture framed in the doorway of the white school-house.  She stood, with eyes fastened on
the paper which she held in one hand, while the other pressed a pencil-head against her cheek,
unmindful of the curious glances that were fixed upon her from within, until the messenger-boy
had twice repeated his customary question:

"Any answer, ma'am?"

She reached forth her hand, slowly and without reply.  The boy looked up and saw that she was
gazing far beyond him and had a strained, fixed look in her eyes.

"Want a blank?" he asked, in a tone of unconscious sympathy.

She did not answer, but as he put his pad of blanks into her outstretched hand she drew it
back and wrote, in a slow and absent manner, a message in these words:

"To CAPTAIN OSCAR AINSLIE, Boyleston, Va.

"Coming.

"MOLLIE."

"Collect?" asked the boy.

"No!"

She inquired, and paid the charges in the same unheeding way. The messenger departed with a
wistful glance at the dry, pained eyes which heeded him not.  With a look of dumb entreaty
at the overhanging mountain and misty, Indian summer sky, and a half perceptible shiver of
dread, Mollie Ainslie turned and entered again the school-room.

CHAPTER XVII.

GOOD-MORROW AND FAREWELL.

A week afterward, Mollie Ainslie stood beside the bed of her only brother and watched the sharp,
short struggle which he made with their hereditary enemy, consumption. Weakened by wounds and
exposure, he was but ill-prepared to resist the advances of the insidious foe, and when she
reached his side she saw that the hope, even of delay, was gone. So she took her place, and
with ready hand, brave heart, and steady purpose, brightened his pathway to the tomb.

Oscar and Mollie Ainslie were the oniy children of a New England clergyman whose life had lasted
long enough, and whose means had been sufficient, with the closest economy, to educate them
both according to the rigorous standards of the region in which they were born.    Until the
son entered college they had studied together, and the sister was almost as well prepared for
the university course as the brother when they were separated.  Then she stepped out of the
race, and determined, though scarcely more than a child, to become herself a bread-winner,
in order that her father's meager salary might be able to meet the drain of her brother's college
expenses. She did this not only without murmuring, but with actual pleasure. Her ambition,
which was boundless, centered upon her brother. She identified herself with him, and cheerfully
gave up every advantage, in order that his opportunities might be more complete. To Oscar these
sacrifices on his sister's part were very galling. He felt the wisdom of the course pursued
toward him by his family, and was compelled to accede in silence to prevent the disappointment
which his refusal would bring. Yet it was the keenest trial for him to think of accepting his
sister's earnings, and only the conviction that to do so was the quickest and surest way to
relieve her of the burden of self-support, induced him to submit to such an arrangement.

Hardly had he entered upon his college course when the war of Rebellion came on, and Oscar
Ainslie saw in the patriotic excitement and the promise of stirring events a way out of a situation
whose fetters were too heavy for him to bear by reason of their very tenderness. He was among
the first, therefore, to enlist, happy thereby to forestall his sister's determination to engage
in teaching, for his sake. His father was grieved at the son's abandonment of his projected
career, but his heart was too patriotic to object. So he gave the bright-eyed young soldier
his blessing as he bade him good-by, standing there before him, strong and trim, in his close-fitting
cavalry uniform. He knew that Oscar's heart beat high with hope, and he would not check it,
though he felt sure that they looked into each other's eyes for the last time. When his own
were glazing over with the ghastly grave-light, more than two years afterward, they were gladdened
by the announcement which came throbbing along the wires and made bright the whole printed
page from which he read: "Private Oscar Ainslie, promoted to a Captaincy for gallant conduct
on the field of Gettysburg." Upon this he rallied his fading energies, and waited for a week
upon the very brink of the chill river, that he might hear, before he crossed over, from the
young soldier himself, how this honor was won. When he had learned this he fell asleep, and
not long after, the faithful wife who had shared his toils and sacrifices heard the ceaseless
cry of his lonely spirit, and was gathered again to his arms upon the shore where beauty fadeth
not forever.

The little homestead upon the rocky hillside overlooking the village was all that was left
to the brother and sister; but it was more than the latter could enjoy alone, so she fled away
and entered upon the vocation in which we found her engaged. Meantime her brother had risen
in.  rank, and at the close of the war had been transferred to the regular army as a reward
of distinguished merit. Then his hereditary foe had laid siege to his weakened frame, and a
brother officer had telegraphed to the sister in the Bankshire hills the first warning of the
coming end.

It was a month after her arrival at Boyleston, when her brother, overcoming the infatuation
which usually attends that disease, saw that the end was near and made provision respecting it.

"Sis," he said, calling her by the pet name of their childhood, "what day of the month is it?"

"The thirteenth, Oscar--your birthday," she replied briskly. "Don't you see that I have been
out and gathered leaves and flowers to decorate your room, in honor of the event?"

Her lap was full of autumn leaves-maple and gum, flaming and variegated, brown oak of various
shapes and shades, golden hickory, the open burrs of the chintuapin, pine cones, and the dun
scraggly balls of the black-gum,  some glowing bunches of the flame-bush, with their wealth
of bursting red beries, and a full-laden branch of the black-haw.

The bright October sun shone through the open window upon her as she arranged them with deft
fingers, contrasting the various hues with loving skill, and weaving ornaments for different
points in the bare room of the little country hotel where her brother lay. He watched her awhile
in silence, and then said sadly,

"Yes, my last birthday."

Her lips trembled, and her head drooped lower over her lap, but she would not let him see her
agitation. So she simply said,

"Do not say that, Oscar."

"No," he replied, "I ought not to say so. I should have said, my last earthly birthday. Sit
closer, Sis, where I can see you better. I want to talk to you."

"Do you know," he continued, as she came and sat upon his bedside, spreading her many-hued
treasures over the white coverlet, "that I meant to have been at home to-day?"

"And are you not?" she asked cheerfully. "Am I not with you?"

"True, Sis, and you are my home now; but, after all, I did want to see the old New England
hills once more. One yearns for familiar scenes after years of war. I meant to have gone back
and brought you here, away from the cold winters that sting, and bite, and kill. I hoped that,
after rest, I might recover strength, and that you might, here escape the shadow which has
fastened upon me."

"Have you seen my horse, Midnight?" he asked, after a fit of coughing, followed by a dreamy
silence.

"Yes."

"How do you like him?"

"He is a magnificent creature."

"Would he let you approach him?"

"I had no trouble in doing so."

None?" He's very vicious, too. Everybody has had trouble with him. Do you think you could ride
him?"

"I have ridden him every day for two weeks."

"Ah! that is how you have kept so fresh." Then, after a pause, "Do you know how I got him?"

"I heard that he was captured."

"Yes, in the very last fight before the surrender at Appomattox. I was with Sheridan, you know.
We were pursuing the retreating columns--had been pressing them hotly ever since the break
at Petersburg--on the rear and on both flanks, fighting, worrying, and watching all the time.
On the last day, when the retreat had become a rout, as it seemed, a stand was made by a body
of cavalry just on the crest of a smoothly-sloping  hill. Not anticipating serious resistance,
we did not wait for the artillery to come up and dislodge them, but deploying a brigade we
rode on, jesting and gay, expecting to see them disperse when we came within range and join
the rabble beyond. We were mistaken.  Just when we got within easy charging distance, down
they came, pell-mell, as dashing a body of dirty veterans as I ever saw. The attack was so
unexpected that for a time we were swept off our feet and fairly carried backward with surprise.
Then we rallied, and there was a sharp, short struggle. The enemy retreated, and we pressed
after them. The man that rode this horse seemed to have selected me as his mark. He rode straight
at me from the first. He was a fine, manly-looking fellow, and our swords were about the last
that were crossed in the struggle. We had a sharp tussle for a while. I think he must have
been struck by a chance shot. At least he was unseated just about the time my own horse was
shot under me. Looking around amid the confusion I saw this horse without a rider. I was in
mortal terror of being trampled by the shifting squadrons and did not delay, but sprang into
the saddle and gave him the spur. When the Confederate bugles sounded the retreat I had a terrible
struggle to keep him from obeying orders and carrying me away into their lines. After that,
however, I had no trouble with him. But he is not kind to strangers, as a rule. I meant to
have taken him home to you," he added, sadly. "You will have him now, and will prize him for
my sake, will you not, Sis?"

"You know, Oscar, that everything you have ever loved or used will be held sacred," she answered
tearfully.

"Yes, I know," he rejoined. "Sis, I wish you would make me a promise."

"You know I will."

"Well, then, do not go back to our old home this winter, nor the next, nor--but I will not
impose terms upon you. Stay as long as you can content yourself in this region. I am afraid
for you. I know you are stronger and have less of the consumptive taint about you than I, but
I am afraid. You would have worked for me when I was in college, and I have worked only for
you, since that time. All that I have saved--and I have saved all I could, for I knew that
my time was not long--is yours. I have some money on deposit, some bonds, and a few articles
of personal property--among the latter, Midnight. All these are yours. It will leave you comfortable
for a time at least. Now, dear, promise that I shall be buried and remain in the cemetery the
Government is making for the soldiers who fell in those last battles. Somehow, I think it will
keep you here, in order that you may be near me, and save you from the disease which is devouring
my life."

A week afterward his companions followed, with rever  ed arms, the funereally-caparisoned Midnight
to the grounds of the National Cemetery, and fired a salute over a new-made grave.

Nimbus, taking with him his helpless friend, had appealed, soon after his purchase, to the
officer of the Bureau for aid in erecting a school-house at Red Wing.  By him he had been referred
to one of those charitable associations, through whose benign agency the great-hearted North
poured its free bounty into the South immediately upon the cessation of strife.

Perhaps there has been no grander thing in our history than the eager generosity with which
the Christian men and women of the North gave and wrought, to bring the boon of knowledge to
the recently-enslaved. As the North gave, willingly and freely, men and millions to save the
nation from disruption, so, when peace came, it gave other brave men and braver women, and
other unstinted millions to strengthen the hands which generations of slavery had left feeble
and inept. Not only the colored, but the white also, were the recipients of this bounty. The
Queen City of the Confederacy, the proud capital of the commonwealth of Virginia, saw the strange
spectacle of her own white children gathered, for the first time, into free public schools
which were supported by Northern charity, and taught by noble women with whom her high-bred
Christian dames and dainty maidens would not deign to associate. The civilization of the North
in the very hour of victory threw aside the cartridge-box, and appealed at once to the contribution-box
to heal the ravages of war. At the door of every church throughout the North, the appeal was
posted for aid to open the eyes of the blind whose limbs had just been unshackled; and the
worshipper, as he gave thanks for his rescued land, brought also an offering to aid in curing
the ignorance which slavery had produced.

It was the noblest spectacle that Christian civilization has ever witnessed--thousands of schools
organized in the country of a vanquished foe, almost before the smoke of battle had cleared
away, free to the poorest of her citizens, supported by the charity, and taught by kindly-hearted
daughters of a quick-forgiving enemy.  The instinct of our liberty-loving people taught them
that light must go with liberty, knowledge with power, to give either permanence or value.
Thousands of white-souled angels of peace, the tenderly-reared and highly-cultured daughters
of many a Northern home, came into the smitten land to do good to its poorest and weakest.
Even to this day, two score of schools and colleges remain, the glorious mementoes of this
enlightened bounty and Christian magnanimity.

And how did the white brothers and sisters of these messengers of a matchless benevolence receive
them? Ah, God! how sad that history should be compelled to make up so dark a record--abuse,
contumely, violence! Christian tongues befouled with calumny!  Christian lips blistered with
falsehood! Christian hearts overflowing with hate! Christian, pens reeking with ridicule because
other Christians sought to do their needy fellows good! No wonder that faith grew weak and
unbelief ran riot through all the land when men looked upon the spectacle! The present may
excuse, for charity is kind; but the future is inexorable and writes its judgments with a pen
hard-nibbed! But let us not anticipate. In thousands of Northern homes still live to testify
these devoted sisters and daughters, now grown matronly. They are scattered through every state,
almost in every hamlet of the North, while other thousands have gone, with the sad truth carved
deep upon their souls, to testify in that court where "the action lies in its true nature."

Nimbus found men even more ready to assist than he and his fellows were to be aided. He himself
gave the land and the timbers; the benevolent association to whom he had appealed furnished
the other materials required; the colored men gave the major part of the labor, and, in less
than a year from the time the purchase was made, the house was ready for the school, and the
old hostelry prepared for the teachers that had been promised.

So it was that, when Nimbus came to the officer in charge at Boyleston and begged that a teacher
might be sent to Red Wing, and met the reply that because of the great demand they had none
to send, Mollie Ainslie, hearing of the request, with her load of sorrow yet heavy on her lonely
heart, said, "Here am I; take me." She thought it a holy work. It was, to her simple heart,
a love-offering to the memory of him who had given his life to secure the freedom of the race
she was asked to aid in lifting up. The gentle child felt called of God to do missionary work
for a weak and struggling people. She thought she felt the divine commandment which rested
on the Nazarene. She did not stop to consider of the "impropriety" of her course. She did not
even know that there was any impropriety in it. She thought her heart had heard the trumpet-call
of duty, and, like Joan of Arc, though it took her among camps and dangers, she would not flinch.
So Nimbus returned happy; an officer was sent to examine the location and report. Mollie, mounted
upon Midnight, accompanied him. Of course, this fact and her unbounded delight at the quaint
beauty of Red Wing was no part of the reason why Lieutenant Hamilton made a most glowing report
on the location; but it was owing to that report that the officer at the head of the "Bureau"
in that district, the department-commander, and finally the head of the Bureau, General Howard
himself, indorsed the scheme most warmly and aided it most liberally. So that soon afterward
the building was furnished as a school-house, Mollie Ainslie, with Lucy Ellison, an old schoolmate,
as her assistant, was installed at the old hostlery, and bore sway in the school of three hundred
dusky pupils which assembled daily at Red Wing. Midnight was given royal quarters in the old
log-stable, which had been re-covered and almost rebuilt for his especial delectation, the
great square stall, with its bed of dry oak leaves, in which he stood knee-deep, being sufficient
to satisfy even Miss Mollie's fastidious demands for the comfort of her petted steed After
a time Eliab Hill, to whose suggestion the whole plan was due, became also an assistant instructor.

Mollie Ainslie did not at all realize the nature of the task she had undertaken, or the burden
of infamy and shame which a Christian people would heap upon her because of this kindly-meant
work done in their midst!

CHAPTER XVIII.

"PRIME WRAPPERS."

It was more than a year afterward. Quite a little village had grown up around the church and
school-house  at Red Wing, inhabited by colored men who had been attracted thither by the novelty
of one of their own members being a proprietor. Encouraged by his example, one and another
had bought parcels of his domain, until its size was materially reduced though its value was
proportionately enhanced. Those who settled here were mostly mechanics--carpenters and masons--who
worked here and there as they could find employment, a blacksmith who wrought for himself,
and some farm laborers who dreaded the yearly system of hire as too nearly allied to the slave
regime, and so worked by the day upon the neighboring plantations. One or two bought somewhat
larger tracts, intending to imitate the course of Nimbus and raise the fine tobacco for which
the locality was already celebrated. All had built cheap log-houses, but their lots were well
fenced and their "truck-patches" clean and thrifty, and the little hamlet was far from being
unattractive, set as it was in the midst of the green forests which belted it about. From the
plantations on either side, the children flocked to the school. So that when the registering
officer and the sheriff rode into the settlement, a few days after the registration at Melton,
it presented a thriving and busy spectacle.

Upon the hillside, back of his house, Nimbus, his wife, and two men whom he had employed were
engaged in cutting the tobacco which waved--crinkled and rank, with light ygjlowish spots showing
here and there upon the great leaves--a billow of green in the autumn wind. The new-comers
halted and watched the process for a moment as they rode up to the barn, while the sheriff
explained to the unfamiliar Northman:

"This is the first cutting, as it is called. They only take out the ripest this time, and leave
the rest for another cutting, a week or two later. You see, he goes through there," pointing
to Nimbus, "and picks out the ripe, yellow-looking  plants. Then he sets his knife in at the
top of the stalk where it has been broken off to prevent its running up to seed, and splits
it down almost to the ground; then he cuts the stalk off below the split, and it is ready to
be hung on the thin narrow strips of oak, which you see stuck up here and there, where the
cutting has been done. They generally put from seven to ten plants on a stick, according to
the size of the plants; so that the number of sticks makes a very accurate measure of the size
of the crop, and an experienced hand can tell within a few pounds the weight of any bulk of
tobacco by simply counting the sticks."

They rode up to the barn and found it already half full of tobacco. Nimbus came and showed
the officer how the sticks were laid upon beams placed at proper intervals, the split plants
hanging tops downward, close together, but not touching each other. The upper portions  of
the barn were first filled and then the lower tiers, until the tobacco hung within two or three
feet of the bottom. The barn itself was made of logs, the interstices  closely chinked and
daubed with clay, so as to make it almost air-tight. Around the building on the inside ran
a large stone flue, like a chimney laid on the ground. Outside was a huge pile of wood and
a liberal supply of charcoal. Nimbus thus described the process of curing:   "Yer see, Capting,
we fills de barn chock full, an' then shets it up fer a day or two, 'cording ter de weather,
sometimes wid a slow fire an' sometimes wid none, till it begins ter sweat--git moist, yer
know. Den we knows it's in order ter begin de curin', an' we puts on mo' fire, an' mo,' an'
mo', till de whole house gits hot an' de leaves begins ter hev a ha'sh, rough feel about de
edges, an' now an' den one begins ter yaller up. Den we raises de heat jes ze fast ez we kin
an' not fire de barn.  Some folks uses de flues alone an' some de coal alone, but I mostly
'pends on de flues wid a few heaps of coal jes here an' dar 'bout de flo', at sech a time,
kase eberyting  'pends on a even reg'lar heat dat you kin manage good. Den you keeps watch
on it mighty close an' don't let it git too hot nor yet fail ter be hot 'nough, but jes so
ez ter keep it yallerin' up nicely. When de leaves is crisp an' light so dat dey rustles roun'
in de drafts like dead leaves in the fall, yer know, it's cured; an' all yer's got ter du den
is ter dry out de stems an' stalks.  Dat's got ter be done, tho,' kase ef yer leaves enny bit
ob it green an' sappy-like, fust ting yer knows when it comes in order--dat is, gits damp an'
soft--de green runs outen de stems down inter de leaves an' jes streaks 'em all ober, or p'raps
it turns de fine yaller leaf a dull greenish brown. So yer's got ter keep up yer fire till
every stalk an' stem'll crack like a pipe-stem ez soon ez yer bends 'em up. Den yer lets de
fire go down an' opens der do' fer it ter come in order, so't yer kin bulk it down."

"What do you mean by 'bulking it down'?"

"Put it in bulk, like dis yer," said he, pointing to a pile of sticks laid crosswise of each
other with the plants still on them, and carefully covered to keep out the weather. "Yer see,"
he continued, "dis answers two pu'poses; fust yergits yer barn empty an' uses it again.  Den
de weather don't git in ter signify, yer know, an' so it don't come inter order any more an'
color up wid de wet; dat is, 'less yer leaves it too long or de wedder is mighty damp."

"Oh, he knows," said the sheriff, with a ring of pride in his voice. "Nimbus was raised in
a tobacco-field,  and knows as much as anybody about it. How did your first barn cure up, Nimbus?"

"Right bright and even, sah," answered the colored man, as he thrust his hand under the boards
spread over the bulk near which he stood, and drew out a few leaves, which he smoothed out
carefully and handed to his visitors.  "I got it down in tol'able fa'r order, too, alter de
rain t'odder evenin'. Dunno ez I ebber handled a barn thet, take it all round, 'haved better
er come out fa'rer in my life--mighty good color an' desp'ut few lugs. Yer see, I got it cut
jes de right time, an' de weather couldn't hev ben better ef I'd hed it made ter order."

The sheriff stretched a leaf to its utmost width, held it up to the sunshine, crumpled it between
his great palms, held it to his face and drew a long breath through it, rubbed the edges between
thumb and finger, pinched the stem with his thumb-nail till it broke in half a dozen places,
and remarked with enthusiasm, to the Northern man, who stood rubbing and smelling of the sample
he held, in awkward imitation of one whom he recognized as a connoisseur:

"That's prime terbacker, Captain. If it runs like that through the bulk and nothing happens
to it before it gets to the warehouse, it'll bring a dollar a pound, easy. You don't often
see such terbacker any year, much less such a one as this has been. Didn't it ripen mighty
uneven, Nimbus?"   "Jest about ez it oughter--a little 'arlier on the hilltop  an' dry places
'long de sides, an' den gradwally down ter de moister places. Dar wa'n't much ob dat pesky
spotted ripenin' up--jes a plant h'yer an' anodder dar, all in 'mong de green, but jest about
a good barnfull  in tollable fa'r patches, an' den anodder comin' right on atter it. I'll hev
it full agin an' fire up by to-morrer evenin'."

"Do you hang it right up after cutting?" asked the officer.

"Wal, we mout do so. Tain't no hurt ter do it dat er way, only it handles better ter let it
hang on de sticks a while an' git sorter wilted--don't break de leaves off ner mash 'em up
so much loadin' an" unloadin',  yer know," answered Nimbus.

"How much have you got here?" asked the sheriff, casting his eye over the field; "forty thousand?"

"Wal," said Nimbus, "I made up sixty thousand hills, but I hed ter re-set some on 'em. I s'pose
it'll run somewhere between fifty an' sixty thousand."

"A right good crop," said the sheriff. "I doubt if any man in the county has got a better,
take it all 'round."

"I don't reckon ther's one wukked enny harder fer what he's got," said the colored man quietly.

"No, I'll guarantee ther hain't," said the other, laughing.  "Nobody ever accused you of being
lazy, Nimbus.  They only fault you fer being too peart."

"All 'cause I wants my own, an' wuks fer it, an' axes nobody enny odds, but only a fa'r show--a
white man's chance ter git along," responded Nimbus, with a touch of defiance in his tone.

"Well, well," said the sheriff good-naturedly, "I won't never fault ye for that, but they do
say you're the only man, white er black, that ever got ahead of Potem Desmit in a trade yet.
How's that, Nimbus?"

"I paid him all he axed," said the colored man, evidently  flattered by this tribute to his
judgment as to the value of Red Wing. "Kase white folks won't see good fine-terbacker lan'
when dey walks ober it, tain't my fault, is it?"

"No more tain't, Nimbus; but don't yer s'pose yer Marse Potem's smartly worried over it?"

"La, no, I reckon not. He don't 'pear ter be, ennyhow.  He war by here when I was curin' up
dis barn, an' stopped in an' looked at it, an' axed a power ob questions, an' got Lugena ter
bring him out some buttermilk  an' a corn pone. Den he went up an' sot an hour in de school
an' sed ez how he war mighty proud ter see one of his ole nigga's gittin' on dat er way."

"Wal, now, that was kind of him, wasn't it?"

"Dat it war, sah, an' hit done us all a power ob good, too. Hev you ebber ben ter de school,
Mr. Sheriff?  No? wal, yer oughter; an' you, too, Capting. Dar's a little Yankee woman, Miss
Mollie Ainslie, a runnin' ob it, dat do beat all curration fer managin' tings. I'd nebber'd
got long so h'yer, not by no means, ez I hez, but fer her advice--her'n an' 'Liab's, gentlemen.
Dar she am now," he added, as a slight figure, mounted on a powerful black horse, and dressed
in a dark riding-habit, with a black plume hanging from a low-crowned felt hat, came out of
the woods below and cantered easily along the road a hundred yards away, toward the school-house.
The visitors watched her curiously, and expressed a desire to visit the school. Nimbus said
that if they would walk on slowly he would go by the house and get his coat and overtake them
before they reached the school-house.    As they walked along the sheriff said,

"Did you notice the horse that Yankee schoolmarm rode?"

"I noticed that it was a very fine one," was the reply.

"I should think it was. I haven't seen a horse in an age that reminded me so much of the one
I was telling you about that Hesden Le Moyne used to have. He is fuller and heavier, but if
I was not afraid of making Hesden mad I would rig him about a nigger-teacher's riding his horse
around the country. Of course it's not the same, but it would be a good joke, only Hesden Le
Moyne is not exactly the man one wants to start a joke on."

When they arrived at the school-house they found that Mollie Ainslie had changed her habit
and was now standing by the desk on the platform in the main room, clad in a neat half-mourning
dress, well adapted to the work of the school-room, quiet and composed, tapping her bell to
reduce to order the many-hued crowd of scholars of all ages and sizes who were settling into
their places preparatory to the morning roll-call. Nimbus took his visitors up the broad aisle,
through an avenue of staring eyes, and introduced them awkwardly, but proudly, to the self-collected
little figure on the platform. She in turn presented to them her assistant, Miss Lucy Ellison,
a blushing, peach-cheeked little Northern beauty, and Eliab Hill, now advanced to the dignity
of an assistant also, who sat near her on the platform. The sheriff nodded awkwardly to the
ladies, as if doubtful how much deference it would do to display,  said, "How d'ye, 'Liab?"
to the crippled colored man, laid his saddle-bags on the floor, and took the chair assigned
to him. The Northern man greeted the young ladies with apparent pleasure and profound respect,
shook hands with the colored man, calling him "Mister" Hill, and before sitting down looked
out on the crowded school with evident surprise.

Before proceeding with the roll-call Miss Ainslie took the large Bible which lay upon her desk,
and approaching the gentlemen said:

"It is our custom every morning to read a portion of the Scripture and offer prayer. We should
be glad if either of you would conduct these exercises for us."

Both declined, the sheriff with some confusion, and the other remarking that he desired to
see the school going on as if he were not present, in order that he might the better observe
its exercises.

Miss Ainslie returned to her desk, called the roll of a portion of the scholars, and then each
of her assistants called the names of those assigned to their charge. A selection from the
Scripture was next read by the preceptress, a hymn sung under her lead with great spirit and
correctness, and then Eliab Hill, clasping his hands, said, "Let us pray." The whole school
knelt, the ladies bowed their heads upon the desk, and Eliab offered an appropriate prayer,
in which the strangers were not forgotten, but were each kindly and fitly commended to the
Divine care. Then there was an impromptu examination of the school. Each of the teachers heard
a class recite, there was more singing, with other agreeable exercises, and it was noon before
the visitors thought of departing. Then they were invited to dine with the lady teachers at
the old Ordinary, and would have declined, on the ground that they must go on to the next precinct,
but Nimbus, who had been absent for an hour, now appeared and brought word that the table was
spread on the porch under the great oak, and their horses already cared for; so that excuse
would evidently be useless. The sheriff was very uneasy, but the other seemed by no means displeased
at the delay. However, the former recovered when he saw the abundant repast, and told many
amusing stories of the old hostel. At length he said:

"That is a fine horse you rode this morning, Miss Ainslie. May I ask to whom it belongs?"

"To me, of course," replied the lady, in some surprise.

"I did not know," replied the sheriff, slightly confused.  "Have you owned him long?"

"Nearly two years, she answered."

"Indeed? Somehow I can't get it out of my head that I have seen him before, while I am quite
sure I never had the pleasure of meeting you until to-day."

"Quite likely," she answered; "Nimbus sometimes rides him into Melton for the mail."

"No," said he, shaking his head, "that is not it.  But, no matter, he's a fine horse, and if
you leave here or wish to sell him at any time, I hope you will rememher and give me a first
chance."

He was astonished at the result of his harmless proposal.

"Sir," said the little lady, her gray eyes filling and her voice choking with emotion, "that
was my only brother's favorite horse. He rode him in the army, and gave him to me when he died.
No money could buy him under any circumstances."

"Beg pardon," said the sheriff; "I had no idea--I--ah--"

To relieve his embarrassment the officer brought forward the special object of his visit by
stating that it was thought desirable to establish a voting precinct at Red Wing for the coming
election, if a suitable place to hold the election could be found, and asked if the school-house
could be obtained for that purpose. A lively conversation ensued, in which both gentlemen set
forth the advantages of the location to the voters of that section.  Miss Ellison seemed to
favor it, but the little lady who was in charge only asked questions and looked thoughtful.
When at length her opinion was directly asked, she said:

"I had heard of this proposal through both Mr. Hill and Nimbus, and I must say I quite agree
with the view taken by the former. If it were necessary in order to secure the exercise of
their rights by the colored men I would not object; but I cannot see that it is. It would,
of course, direct even more attention to our school, and I do not think the feeling toward
us among our white neighbors is any too kindly now. We have received no serious ill-treatment,
it is true, but this is the first time any white person has ventured into our house. I don't
think that anything should be done to excite unnecessary antipathy which might interfere with
what I must consider the most important element of the colored man's development, the opportunity
for education."

"Why, they hold the League meetings there, don't they?" asked the sheriff, with a twinkle which
questioned  her sincerity.

"Certainly," she answered calmly. "At least I gave them leave to do so, and have no doubt they
do. I consider  that necessary. The colored men should be encouraged  to consider and discuss
political affairs and decide  in regard to them from their own standpoint. The League gives
them this opportunity. It seems to be a quiet and orderly gathering. They are all colored men
of the same way of thought, in the main, and it is carried  on entirely by them; at least,
such is the case here, and I consider the practice which it gives in the discussion of public
affairs and the conduct of public assemblies  as a most valuable training for the adults who
will never have a chance to learn otherwise."

"I think Nimbus is in favor of having the election here," said Captain Pardee.

"No doubt," she replied. "So are they all, and they have been very pressing in their importunity--all
except Mr. Hill. They are proud of their school and the building, which is the joint product
of their own labor  and the helpfulness of Northern friends, and are anxious for every opportunity
to display their unexpected  prosperity. It is very natural, but I think unwise."

"Nimbus owns the land, don't he?" asked the sheriff.

"No, He gave that for school and church purposes, and, except that they have a right to use
it on the Sabbath,  it is in my charge as the principal teacher here," she replied, wilh dignity.

"And you do not desire the election held here?" asked Captain Pardee.

"I am sorry to discommode the voters around here, white or black, but I would not balance a
day's time or a day's walk against the more important interests of this school to the colored
people. They can walk ten miles to vote, if need be, but no exertion of theirs could replace
even the building and its furniture, let alone the school which it shelters."

"That is very true," said the officer, thoughtfully.

So the project was abandoned, and Melton remained the nearest polling-place to Red Wing.

As they rode away the two representatives of antipodal  thought discussed the scenes they had
witnessed that day, which were equally new to them both, and  naturally enough drew from them
entirely different conclusions.  The Northern man enthusiastically prophesied the rapid rise
and miraculous development of the colored race under the impetus of free schools and free thought.
The Southern man only saw in it a prospect of more "sassy niggers," like Nimbus, who was "a
good enough nigger, but mighty aggravating to the white folks."

With regard to the teachers, he ventured only this comment:

"Captain, it's a mighty pity them gals are teaching a nigger school. They're too likely for
such work--too likely by half."

The man whom he addressed only gave a low, quiet laugh at this remark, which the other found
it difficult to interpret.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE SHADOW OF THE FLAG.

As soon as it became known that the plan of having a polling-place at Red Wing had been abandoned,
there was an almost universal expression of discontent among the colored people. Never before
had the authority or wisdom of the teachers been questioned. The purity of their motives and
the devotion they had displayed in advancing every interest of those to whom they had come
as the missionaries of light and freedom, had hitherto protected them from all jealousy or
suspicion on the part of the beneficiaries of their devotion. Mollie Ainslie had readily and
naturally fallen into the habit of controlling  and directing almost everything about her,
simply because she had been accustomed to self-control and self-direction, and was by nature
quick to decide and  resolute to act. Conscious of her own rectitude, and fully realizing the
dangers which might result from the experiment  proposed, she had had no hesitation about withholding
her consent, without which the school-house could not be used, and had not deemed it necessary
to consult the general wish of the villagers in regard to it. Eliab Hill had approved her action,
and she had briefly spoken of it to Nimbus--that was all.

Now, the people of Red Wing, with Nimbus at their head, had set their hearts upon having the
election held there. The idea was flattering to their importance, a recognition of their manhood
and political co-ordination which was naturally and peculiarly gratifying. So they murmured
and growled, and the discontent grew louder and deeper until, on the second day thereafter,
Nimbus, with two or three other denizens of Red Wing, came, with gloomy, sullen faces, to the
school-house at the hour for dismissal, to hold an interview with Miss Ainslie on the subject.
She knew their errand, and received them with that cool reserve which so well became her determined
face and slight, erect figure. When they had stated their desire, and more than half indicated
their determination  to have the election held there at all hazards, she said briefly,

"I have not the slightest objection."

"Dar now," said Nimbus exultingly; "I 'llowed dar mus' be somethin' wrong 'bout it. They kep'
tellin' me that you 'posed it, an' tole de Capting dat it couldn't never be held here wid your
consent while you wuz in de school."

"So I did."

"You don't say? an' now yer's changed yer mind."

"I have not changed my mind at all."   "No? Den what made you say yer hadn't no 'jections,
just now."

"Because I have not. It is a free country. You say you are determined to have the election
here, I am fully convinced that it would do harm. Yet you have a right to provide a place,
and hold it here, if you desire. That I do not question, and shall not attempt to prevent;
only, the day that you determine to do so I shall pack up my trunk, ride over to Boyleston,
deliver the keys to the superintendent, and let him do as he chooses about the matter."

"Yer don't mean ter say yer'd go an' leave us fer good, does yer, Miss Mollie?" asked Nimbus
in surprise.

"Certainly," was the reply; "when the people have once lost confidence in me, and I am required
to give up my own deliberate judgment to a whimsical desire for parade, I can do no more good
here, and will leave at once."

"Sho, now, dat won't do at all--no more it won't," responded Nimbus. "Ef yer feel's dat er
way 'bout it, der ain't no mo' use a-talkin'. Dere's gwine ter be nary 'lection h'yer ef it
really troubles you ladies dat 'er way."

So it was decided, and once again there was peace.

To compensate themselves for this forbearance, however,  it was suggested that the colored
voters of Red Wing and vicinity should meet at the church on the morning of election and march
in a body to the polls with music and banners, in order most appropriately and significantly
to commemorate their first exercise of the electoral privilege. To this Miss Ainslie saw no
serious objection, and in order fully to conciliate Nimbus, who might yet feel himself aggrieved
by her previous decision, she tendered him the loan of her horse on the occasion,  he having
been elected marshal.

From that time until the day of the election there was considerable excitement. There were
a number of political  harangues made in the neighborhood; the League met several times; the
colored men appeared anxious and important about the new charge committed to their care; the
white people were angry, sullen, and depressed. The school at Red Wing went peaceably on, interrupted
only by the excitement attendant upon the preparations making for the expected parade.

Almost every night, after work was over, the colored people would gather in the little hamlet
and march to the music of a drum and fife, and under the command of Nimbus, whose service in
the army had made him a tolerable  proficient in such tactical movements as pertained to the
"school of the company." Very often, until well past midnight the fife and drum, the words
of command, and the rumble of marching feet could be heard in the little village. The white
people in the country around about began to talk about "the niggers arming and drilling," saying
that they intended to "seize the polls on election day;" "rise up and murder the whites;" "burn
all the houses along the river;" and a thousand other absurd and incredible things which seemed
to fill the air, to grow and multiply like baleful spores, without apparent cause. As a consequence
of this there grew up a feeling of apprehension among the colored men also. They feared that
these things were said simply to make a ready and convenient excuse for violence which was
to be perpetrated upon them in order to prevent the exercise of their legal rights.

So there were whisperings and apprehension and high resolve  upon both sides. The colored men,
conscious of their own rectitude, were either unaware of the real light in which their innocent
parade was regarded by their white neighbors, or else laughed at the feeling as insincere 
and groundless. The whites, having been for generations firm believers in the imminency of
servile insurrections;  devoutly crediting the tradition that the last words of George Washington,
words of wisdom and warning, were, "Never trust a nigger with a gun;" and accustomed to chafe
each other into a fever heat of excitement over any matter of public interest, were ready to
give credence to any report--all the more easily because  of its absurdity. On the other hand,
the colored people, hearing these rumors, said to themselves that it was simply a device to
prevent them from voting, or to give color and excuse for a conflict at the polls.

There is no doubt that both were partly right and partly wrong. While the parade was at first
intended simply as a display, it came to be the occasion of preparation  for an expected attack,
and as the rumors grew more wild and absurd, so did each side grow more earnest and sincere.
The colored men determined to exercise their rights openly and boldly, and the white men were
as fully determined that at any exhibition of "impudence" on the part of the "niggers" they
would teach them a lesson they would not soon forget.

None of this came to the ears of Mollie Ainslie.  Nevertheless she had a sort of indefinite
foreboding of evil to come out of it, and wished that she had exerted her influence to prevent
the parade.

On the morning of the election day a motley crowd collected at an early hour at Red Wing. It
was noticeable  that every one carried a heavy stick, though there was no other show of arms
among them. Some of them, no doubt, had pistols, but there were no guns in the crowd. They
seemed excited and alarmed. A few notes from the fife, however, banished all irresolution,
and before  eight o'clock two hundred men gathered from the country round marched away toward
Melton, with a national flag heading the column, in front of which rode Eliab Hill in the carryall
belonging to Nimbus.  With them went a crowd of women and children, numbering as many more,
all anxious to witness the first exercise of elective power by their race, only just delivered
from the bonds of slavery. The fife screeched, the drum rattled; laughter and jests and high
cheer prevailed among them all. As they marched on, now and then a white man rode past them,
silent and sullen, evidently enraged at the display which was being made by the new voters.
As they drew nearer to the town it became evident that the air was surcharged with trouble.
Nimbus sent back Miss Ainslie's horse, saying that he was afraid it might get hurt. The boy
that took it innocently repeated this remark to his teacher.

Within the town there was great excitement. A young man who had passed Red Wing while the men
were assembling had spurred into Melton and reported with great excitement that the "niggers"
were collecting at the church and Nimbus was giving out arms and ammunition; that they were
boasting of what they would do if any of their votes were refused; that they had all their
plans laid to meet negroes from other localities at Melton, get up a row, kill all the white
men, burn the town, and then ravish the white women. This formula of horrors is one so familiar
to the Southern tongue that it runs off quite unconsciously whenever there is any excitement
in the air about the "sassy niggers." It is the "form of sound words," which is never forgotten.
Its effect upon the Southern white man is magical. It moves him as the red rag does a mad bull.
It takes away all sense and leaves only an abiding desire to kill.

So this rumor awakened great excitement as it flew from lip to lip. Few questioned its verity,
and most of those who heard felt bound in conscience to add somewhat  to it as they passed
it on to the next listener.  Each one that came in afterward was questioned eagerly upon the
hypothesis of a negro insurrection having already taken shape. "How many are there?" "Who is
at the head of it?" "How are they armed?" "What did they say?" were some of the queries which
overwhelmed every new comer. It never seemed to strike any one as strange that if the colored
men had any hostile intent they should let these solitary horsemen  pass them unmolested. The
fever spread. Revolvers  were flourished and shot-guns loaded; excited crowds gathered here
and there, and nearly everybody in the town sauntered carelessly toward the bridge across which
Nimbus' gayly-decked column must enter the town. A few young men rode out to reconnoitre, and
every few minutes one would come dashing back upon a reeking steed, revolver in hand, his mouth
full of strange oaths and his eyes flaming with excitement.

It was one of these that precipitated the result. The flag which waved over the head of the
advancing column had been visible from the town for some time as now and then it passed over
the successive ridges to the eastward. The sound of fife and drum had become more and more
distinct,  and a great portion of the white male population, together with those who had come
in to the election from the surrounding country, had gathered about the bridge spanning the
swift river which flowed between Melton and the hosts of the barbarous and bloodthirsty "niggers"
of the Red Wing country. Several of the young scouts had ridden close up to the column with
tantalizing shouts and insulting gestures and then dashed back to recount their own audacity;
until, just as the Stars and Stripes began to show over the last gullied hill, one of them,
desirous of outdoing his comrades in bravado, drew his revolver, flourished it over his head,
and cast a shower of insulting epithets upon the colored pilgrims to the shrine of ballatorial
power. He was answered from the dusky crowd with words as foul as his own. Such insult was
not to be endured. Instantly his pistol was raised, there was a flash, a puff of fleecy smoke,
a shriek from amid the crowd.

At once all was confusion. Oaths, cries, pistol-shots, and a shower of rocks filled the air
as the young man turned and spurred back to the town. In a moment the long covered-bridge was
manned by a well-armed crowd, while others were seen running toward it. The town was in an uproar.

The officers of election had left the polls, and in front of the bridge could be seen Hesden
Le Moyne and the burly sheriff striving to keep back the angry crowd of white men. On the hill
the colored men, for a moment struck with amazement, were now arming with stones, in dead earnest,
uttering loud cries of vengeance for one of their number who, wounded and affrighted, lay groaning
and writhing by the roadside. They outnumbered  the whites very greatly, but the latter excelled
them in arms, in training, and in position. Still, such was their exasperation at what seemed
to them a wanton and unprovoked  attack, that they were preparing to charge upon the bridge
without delay. Nimbus especially was frantic  with rage.

"It's the flag!" he shouted; "the damned rebels are firing on the flag!"   He strode back and
forth, waving an old cavalry sabre which he had brought to mark his importance as marshal of
the day, and calling on his followers to stand by him and they would "clean out the murderous
crowd." A few pistol shots which were fired from about the bridge but fell far short, added
to their excitement and desperation.

Just as they were about to rush down the hillside, Mollie Ainslie, with a white set face, mounted
on her black horse, dashed in front of them, and cried,

"Halt!"

Eliab Hill had long been imploring them with upraised hands to be calm and listen to reason,
but his voice was unheeded or unheard in the wild uproar. The sight of the woman, however,
whom all of them regarded so highly, reining in her restive horse and commanding silence, arrested
the action of all. But Nimbus, now raging like a mad lion, strode up to her, waving his sword
and cursing fearfully in his wild wrath, and said hoarsely:

"You git out o' de way, Miss Mollie! We all tinks a heap ob you, but yer hain't got no place
h'yer! De time's come for men now, an' dis is men's wuk, an' we's gwine ter du it, too! D'yer
see dat man dar, a-bleedin' an' a-groanin'? Blood's been shed! We's been fired into kase we
wuz gwine ter exercise our rights like men under de flag ob our kentry, peaceable, an' quiet,
an' disturbin' nobody! 'Fore God, Miss Mollie, ef we's men an' fit ter hev enny rights, we
won't stan' dat! We'll hev blood fer blood! Dat's what we means! You jes git outen de way!"
he added imperiously.  "We'll settle dis yer matter ourselves!" He reached out his hand as
he spoke to take her horse by the bit.

"Stand back!" cried the brave girl. "Don't you touch him, sir!" She urged her horse forward,
and Nimbus, awed by her intensity, slowly retreated before her, until she was but a pace or
two in front of the line which stretched across the road. Then leaning forward, she said,

"Nimbus, give me your sword!"

"What you wants ob dat, Miss Mollie?" he asked in surprise.

"No matter; hand it to me!"

He took it by the blade, and held the heavy basket-hilt  toward her. She clasped her small
white fingers around the rough, shark-skin handle and raised it over her head as naturally
as a veteran leader desiring to command attention, and said:

"Now, Nimbus, and the rest of you, you all know that I am your friend. My brother was a soldier,
and fought for your liberty on this very horse. I have never advised you except for your good,
and you know I never will. If it is right and best for you to right now, I will not hinder
you. Nay, I will say God-speed, and for aught I know fight with you. I am no coward, if I am
a woman. You know what I have risked already for your good. Now tell me what has happened,
and what this means."

There was a cheer at this, and fifty excited voices began  the story.

"Stop! stop!'" she cried. "Keep silent, all of you, and let Mr. Hill tell it alone. He was
here in front and saw it all."

Thereupon she rode up beside the carry-all, which was now in the middle of the throng, and
listened gravely while Eliab told the whole story of the march from Red Wing, There was a buzz
when he had ended, which she stilled by a word and a wave of the hand, and then turning  to
Nimbus she said:

"Nimbus, I appoint you to keep order in this crowd until my return. Do not let any man, woman,
or child move forward or back, whatever may occur. Do you understand?"

"Yes, ma'am, I hears; but whar you gwine, Miss Mollie?"

"Into the town."

"No yer don't, Miss Mollie," said he, stepping before her. "Dey'll kill you, shore."

"No matter. I am going. You provoked this affray by your foolish love of display, and it must
be settled now, or it will be a matter of constant trouble hereafter."

"But, Miss Mollie--"

"Not a word! You have been a soldier and should obey orders. Here is your sword. Take it, and
keep order here. Examine that poor fellow's wound, and I will go and get a doctor for him."

She handed Nimbus his sword and turned her horse toward the bridge. Then a wail of distress
arose from the crowd. The women begged her not to go, with tears. She turned in her saddle,
shook her head, and raised her hand to show her displeasure at this. Then she took a handkerchief
from her pocket and half waving  it as she proceeded, went toward the bridge.

"Well, I swear," said the sheriff; "if that are gal ain't coming in with a flag of truce. She's
pluck, anyhow.  You ought to give her three cheers, boys."

The scene which had been enacted on the hill had been closely watched from the bridge and the
town, and Mollie's conduct had been pretty well interpreted though her words could not be heard.
The nerve which she had exhibited had excited universal comment, and it needed no second invitation
to bring off every hat and send up, in her honor, the shrill yell with which our soldiers became
familiar during the war.

Recognizing this, her pale face became suffused with blushes, and she put her handkerchief
to her lips to hide their tremulousness as she came nearer. She ran her eyes quickly along
the line of strange faces, until they fell upon the sheriff, by whom stood Hesden Le Moyne.
She rode straight to them and said,

"Oh, Mr. Sheriff--"

Then she broke down, and dropping the rein on her horse's neck, she pressed her handkerchief
to her face and wept. Her slight frame shook with sobs. The men looked at her with surprise
and pity. There was even a huskiness in the sheriff's voice as he said,

"Miss Ainslie--I--I beg your pardon, ma'am-but--"

She removed the handkerchief, but the tears were still running down her face as she said, glancing
round the circle of sympathizing faces:

"Do stop this, gentlemen. It's all a mistake. I know it must be a mistake!"

"We couldn't help it, ma'am," said one impulsive youth, putting in before the elders had time
to speak; "the niggers was marching on the town here. Did you suppose we was going to sit still
and let them burn and ravage without opposition? Oh, we haven't got so low as that, if the
Yankees did outnumber us. Not yet!"

There was a sneering tone in his voice which did more than sympathy could, to restore her equanimity.
So she said, with a hint of a smile on her yet tearful face,

"The worst thing those poor fellows meant to do, gentlemen, was to make a parade over their
new-found privileges--march up to the polls, vote, and march home again. They are just like
a crowd of boys over a drum and fife, as you know. They carefully excluded from the line all
who were not voters, and I had them arranged so that their names would come alphabetically,
thinking it might be handier for the officers; though I don't know anything about how an election
is conducted," she added, with an ingenuous blush. "It's all my fault, gentlemen! I did not
think any trouble could come of it, or I would not have allowed it for a moment.  I thought
it would be better for them to come in order, vote, and go home than to have them scattered
about the town and perhaps getting into trouble."

"So 'twould," said the sheriff. "Been a first-rate thing if we'd all understood it--first-rate."

"Oh, I'm so sorry, gentlemen--so sorry, and I'm afraid one man is killed. Would one of you
be kind enough to go for a doctor?"

"Here is one," said several voices, as a young man stepped forward and raised his hat respectfully.

"I will go and see him," he said.

He walked on up the hill alone.

"Well, ma'am," said the sheriff, "what do you think should be done now?"

"If you would only let these people come in and vote, gentlemen. They will return at once,
and I would answer  with my life for their good behavior. I think it was all a misunderstanding."

"Certainly--certainly, ma'am," said the sheriff. "No doubt about it."

She turned her horse and was about to ride back up the hill, but Hesden Le Moyne, taking off
his hat, said:

"Gentlemen, I think we owe a great deal to the bravery  of this young lady. I have no doubt
but all she says is literally true. Yet we like to have got into trouble which might have been
very serious in its consequences, nay, perhaps has already resulted seriously. But for her
timely arrival, good sense, and courage there would have been more bloodshed; our town would
have been disgraced, troops posted among us, and perhaps lives taken in retaliation. Now, considering
all this, I move a vote of thanks to the lady, and that we all pledge ourselves to take no
notice of these people, but let them come in and vote and go out, without interruption. All
that are in favor of that say Aye!"

Every man waved his hat, there was a storm of "ayes," and then the old rebel yell again, as,
bowing and blushing with pleasure, Mollie turned and rode up the hill.

There also matters had assumed a more cheerful aspect  by reason of her cordial reception at
the bridge, and the report of the surgeon that the man's wound, though quite troublesome, was
by no means serious.  She told in a few words what had occurred, explained the mistake, reminded
them that such a display would naturally prove very exasperating to persons situated as the
others were, counselled moderation and quietness of demeanor, and told them to re-form their
ranks and go forward, quietly vote, and return. A rousing cheer greeted her words. Eliab Hill
uttered a devout prayer of thankfulness. Nimbus blunderingly said it was all his fault, "though
he didn't mean no harm," and then suggested that the flag and music should be left there in
charge of some of the boys, which was approved. The wounded man was put into the carry-all
by the side of Eliab, and they started down the hill. The sheriff, who was waiting at the bridge,
called out for them to bring the flag along and have the music strike up.

So, with flying colors and rattling drum-beat, the voters of Red Wing marched to the polls;
the people of Melton looked good-naturedly on; the young hot-bloods joked the dusky citizen,
and bestowed extravagant encomiums  on the plucky girl who had saved them from so much threatened
trouble; and Mollie Ainslie rode home with a hot, flushed face, and was put to bed by her co-laborer,
the victim of a raging headache.

"I declare, Mollie Ainslie," said Lucy, "you are the queerest girl I ever saw. I believe you
would ride that horse into a den of lions, and then faint because you were not eaten up. I
could never do what you have done--never in the world--but if did I wouldn't get sick because
it was all over."

CHAPTER XX.

PHANTASMAGORIA.

The day after the election a colored lad rode up to the school-house, delivered a letter for
Miss Ainslie to one of the scholars, and rode away. The letter was written in an even, delicate
hand, which was yet full of feminine strength, and read as follows:

"MISS AINSLIE:

"My son Hesden has told me of your courage in preventing what must otherwise have resulted
in a most terrible conflict yesterday, and I feel it to be my duty, in behalf of many ladies
whose husbands and sons were present on that occasion, to express to you our gratitude. It
is seldom that such opportunity presents itself to our sex, and still more seldom that we are
able to improve it when presented. Your courage in exerting the power you have over the peculiar
people toward whom you hold such important relations, commands  my utmost admiration. It is
a matter of the utmost congratulation to the good people of Horsford  that one of such courage
and prudence occupies the position which you hold. I am afraid that the people whom you are
teaching can never be made to understand and appreciate the position into which they have been
thrust by the terrible events of the past few years. I am sure, however, that you will do all
in your power to secure that result, and most earnestly  pray for your success. Could I leave
my house I should do myself the pleasure to visit your school and express my gratitude in person.
As it is, I can only send the good wishes of a weak old woman, who, though once a slave-mistress,
was most sincerely rejoiced at the down-fall of a system she had always regarded with regret,
despite the humiliation it brought to her countrymen.

"HESTER LE MOYNE."

This was the first word of commendation which had been received from any Southern white woman,
and the two lonely teachers were greatly cheered by it. When we come to analyze its sentences
there seems to be a sort of patronizing coolness in it, hardly calculated to awaken enthusiasm.
The young girls who had given themselves to what they deemed a missionary work of peculiar
urgency  and sacredness, did not stop to read between the lines, however, but perused with
tears of joy this first epistle from one of their own sex in that strange country where they
had been treated as leprous outcasts by all the families who belonged to the race of which
they were unconscious ornaments. They jumped to the conclusion that a new day was dawning,
and that henceforth they would have that companionship and sympathy which they felt that they
deserved from the Christian women by whom they were surrounded.

"What a dear, good old lady she must be!" exclaimed  the pretty and gushing Lucy Ellison. "I
should like to kiss her for that sweet letter."

So they took heart of grace, talked with the old "Mammy"  who had charge of their household
arrangements about the gentle invalid woman, whom she had served as a slave, and pronounced
"jes de bestest woman in de worl', nex' to my young ladies," and then they went on with their
work with renewed zeal.

Two other results followed this affair, which tended greatly to relieve the monotony of their
lives. A good many gentlemen called in to see the school, most of them young men who were anxious
for a sight of the brave lady who had it in charge, and others merely desirous to see the pretty
Yankee "nigger teachers." Many would, no doubt, have become more intimate with them, but there
was something in the terms of respectful equality on which they associated with their pupils,
and especially with their co-worker, Eliab Hill, which they could not abide or understand.
The fame of the adventure had extended even beyond the county, however, and raised them very
greatly in the esteem of all the people.

Miss Ainslie soon noticed that the gentlemen she met in her rides, instead of passing her with
a rude or impudent stare began to greet her with polite respect. Besides  this, some of the
officers of the post at Boyleston,  hearing of the gallant conduct of their country-woman,
rode over to pay their respects, and brought back such glowing reports of the beauty and refinement
of the teachers at Red Wing that the distance could not prevent others of the garrison from
following their example;  and the old Ordinary thereafter witnessed many a pleasant gathering
under the grand old oak which shaded it. Both of the teachers found admirers in the gallant
company, and it soon became known that Lucy Ellison would leave her present situation erelong
to brighten the life of a young lieutenant. It was rumored, too, that another uniform covered
the sad heart of a cavalier  who asked an exchange into a regiment on frontier duty, because
Mollie Ainslie had failed to respond favorably to his passionate addresses.

So they taught, read, sang, wandered along the wood-paths  in search of new beauties to charm
their Northern eyes; rode together whenever Lucy could be persuaded to mount Nimbus' mule,
which, despite its hybrid nature,  was an excellent saddle-beast; entertained with unaffected
pleasure the officers who came to cheer their loneliness; and under the care of their faithful
old "Mammy"  and the oversight of a kind-hearted, serious-faced Superintendent, who never missed
Red Wing in his monthly rounds, they kept their oddly transformed home bright and cheerful,
their hearts light and pure, and their faith clear, daily thanking God that they were permitted
to do what they thought to be His will.

All of their experiences were not so pleasant. By their own sex they were still regarded with
that calm, unobserving indifference with which the modern lady treats the sister who stands
without the pale of reputable society.  So far as the "ladies" of Horsford were concerned,
the "nigger teachers" at Red Wing stood on the plane of the courtesan--they were seen but not
known. The recognition which they received from the gentlemen of Southern birth had in it not
a little of the shame-faced curiosity which characterizes the intercourse of men with women
whose reputations have been questioned but not entirely destroyed. They were treated with apparent
respect, in the school-room, upon the highway, or at the market, by men who would not think
of recognizing them when in the company of their mothers, sisters, or wives. Such treatment
would have been too galling to be borne had it not been that the spotless-minded girls were
all too pure to realize its significance.

CHAPTER XXI.

A CHILD-MAN.

Eliab Hill had from the first greatly interested the teachers at Red Wing. The necessities
of the school and the desire of the charitable Board having it in charge, to accustom the colored
people to see those of their own race trusted and advanced, had induced them to employ him
as an assistant teacher, even before he was really competent for such service. It is true he
was given charge of only the most rudimentary work, but that fact, while it inspired his ambition,
showed him also the need of improvement and made him a most diligent student.

Lucy Ellison, as being the most expert in housewifely accomplishments, had naturally taken
charge of the domestic arrangements at the Ordinary, and as a consequence  had cast a larger
share of the school duties upon her "superior officer," as she delighted to call Mollie Ainslie.
This division of labor suited well the characteristics of both. To plan, direct, and manage
the school came as naturally and easily to the stirring Yankee "school-marm" as did the ordering
of their little household to the New York farmer's daughter. Among the extra duties  thus devolved
upon the former was the supervision and direction of the studies of Eliab Hill. As he could
not consistently with the requisite discipline be included in any of the regular classes that
had been formed, and his affliction prevented him from coming to them in the evening for private
instruction, she arranged to teach him at the school-house after school hours. So that every
day she remained after the school was dismissed to give him an hour's instruction. His careful
attention and rapid progress amply repaid her for this sacrifice, and she looked forward with
much pleasure to the time when, after her departure, he should be able to conduct the school
with credit to himself and profit to his fellows.

Then, for the first time, she realized how great is the momentum which centuries of intelligence
and freedom give to the mind of the learner--how unconscious is the acquisition of the great
bulk of that knowledge which goes to make up the Caucasian manhood of the nineteenth  century.

Eliab's desire to acquire was insatiable, his application was tireless, but what he achieved
seemed always to lack a certain flavor of completeness. It was without that substratum of general
intelligence which the free white student has partly inherited and partly acquired by observation
and experience, without the labor or the  consciousness of study. The whole world of life,
business, society, was a sealed book to him, which no other hand might open for him; while
the field of literature was but a bright tangled thicket before him.

That unconscious familiarity with the past which is as the small-change of daily thought to
us was a strange currency to his mind. He had, indeed, the key to the value of each piece,
and could, with difficulty, determine its power when used by another, but he did not give or
receive the currency with instinctive readiness. Two things had made him clearly the intellectual
superior of his fellows--the advantages of his early years by which he learned to read, and
the habit of meditation which the solitude of his stricken life induced. This had made him
a thinker, a philosopher far more profound than his general attainments would naturally produce.
With the super-sensitiveness which always characterizes the afflicted, also, he had become
a most acute and subtle observer of the human countenance, and read its infinite  variety of
expression with ease and certainty. In two things he might be said to be profoundly versed--the
spirit of the Scriptures, and the workings of the human  heart. With regard to these his powers
of expression  were commensurate with his knowledge. The Psalms of David were more comprehensible
to him than the simplest formulas of arithmetic.

Mollie Ainslie was not unfrequently amazed at this inequality  of nature in her favorite pupil.
On one side he seemed a full-grown man of grand proportions; on the other, a pigmy-child. She
had heard him pour forth torrents of eloquence on the Sabbath, and felt the force of a nature
exceptionally rich and strong in its conception of religious truths and human needs, only to
find him on the morrow floundering hopelessly in the mire of rudimentary science, or getting,
by repeated perusals, but an imperfect idea of some author's words, which it seemed  to her
he ought to have grasped at a glance.

He had always been a man of thought, and now for two years he had been studying after the manner
of the schools, and his tasks were yet but rudimentary. It is true, he had read much and had
learned not a little in a thousand directions which he did not appreciate, but yet he was discouraged
and despondent, and it is no wonder that he was so. The mountain which stood in his pathway
could not be climbed over nor passed by, but pebble by pebble and grain by grain must be removed,
until a broad, smooth highway showed instead. And all this he must do before he could comprehend
the works of those writers whose pages glow with light to our eyes from the very first. He
read and re-read these, and groped his way to their meaning with doubt and difficulty.

