FOLK-LORE AND LEGENDS SCANDINAVIAN

W. W. Gibbings 18 Bury St., London, W.C.

1890

PREFATORY NOTE.

Thanks to Thiele, to Hylten-Cavallius and Stephens, and to Asbjörnsen and Moe, Scandinavian
Folklore is well to the front. Its treasures are many, and of much value. One may be almost
sorry to find among them the originals of many of our English tales. Are we indebted to the
folk of other nations for all our folk-tales? It would almost seem so.

I have introduced into the present volume only one or two stories from the Prose Edda. Space
would not allow me to give so much of the Edda as I could have wished.

In selecting and translating the matter for this volume, I have endeavoured to make the book
such as would afford its readers a fair general view of the main features of the Folklore of
the North. C.J.T.

CONTENTS

   The Wonderful Plough (Isle of Rugen)

   How a Lad stole the Giant's Treasure (Sweden)

   Tales of Cats (Denmark)

   The Magician's Daughter (Sweden)

   The Hill-man invited to the Christening (Denmark)

   The Meal of Frothi (Norway)

   The Lost Bell (Isle of Rugen)

   Maiden Swanwhite and Maiden Foxtail (Sweden)

   Tales of Treasure (Denmark)

   Holger Danske (Denmark)

   Tales from the Prose Edda--

     The Gods and the Wolf

     The Strange Builder

     Thor's Journey to the Land of Giants

     How Thor Went a-Fishing

     The Death of Baldur

     The Punishment of Loki

   The Origin of Tiis Lake (Denmark)

   There are such Women (Norway)

   Tales of the Nisses (Denmark)

   The Dwarfs' Banquet (Norway)

   The Icelandic Sorceresses (Eyrbiggia Saga)

   The Three Dogs (Sweden)

   The Legend of Thorguima (Eyrbiggia Saga)

   The Little Glass Shoe (Isle of Rugen)

   How Loki Wagered his Head (Edda Resenii)

   The Adventures of John Dietrich (Isle of Rugen)

   How Thorston Became Rich (Thorston's Saga)

   Gudbrand of the Hillside (Norway)

   The Dwarf-Sword Tirfing (Hervarar Saga)

THE WONDERFUL PLOUGH.

There was once a farmer who was master of one of the little black dwarfs that are the blacksmiths
and armourers, and he got him in a very curious way. On the road leading to this farmer's ground
there stood a stone cross, and every morning as he went to his work he used to stop and kneel
down before this cross, and pray for some minutes.

On one of these occasions he noticed on the cross a pretty, bright insect, of such a brilliant
hue that he could not recollect having ever before seen the like in an insect. He wondered
greatly at this, but still he did not disturb it. The insect did not remain long quiet, but
ran without ceasing backwards and forwards upon the cross, as if it was in pain and wanted
to get away.

Next morning the farmer again saw the very same insect, and again it was running to and fro
in the same state of uneasiness. The farmer began now to have some suspicions about it, and
thought to himself--

"Would this now be one of the little black enchanters? It runs about just like one that has
an evil conscience, as one that would, but cannot, get away."

A variety of thoughts and conjectures passed through his mind, and he remembered what he had
often heard from his father and other old people, that when any of the underground people chance
to touch anything holy they are held fast and cannot quit the spot, and so they are extremely
careful to avoid all such things.

"But," thought he, "you may even be something else, and I should, perhaps, be committing a
sin in taking the little insect away."

So he let it stay where it was.

When, however, he twice again found it in the same place, and still running about with the
same signs of uneasiness, he said--

"No, it is not all right with it, so now, in the name of God."

