Gabriel Toombs was one of General Braddock's soldiers who marched against Fort DuQuesne in
1755. He was a member of the sturdy Virginia line which protested against the dangerous tactics
of the British martinet, and when the English regulars were ambushed and cut to pieces, Gabriel
Toombs deployed with his men in the woods and picked off the savages with the steady aim and
unerring skill of the frontiersman. Over one hundred years later Robert Toombs, his grandson,
protested against the fruitless charge at Malvern Hill, and obliquing to the left with his
brigade, protected his men and managed to cover the retreat of his division.

This was a family of soldiers. They were found in the old country fighting Cromwell's army
of the rebellion.

Robert Toombs of Georgia was fond of tracing his lineage to the champions of the English king
who defended their sovereign at Boscobel. But the American family was made up of lovers of
liberty rather than defenders of the King. It was one of the anomalies in the life of the Georgia
Toombs, who resisted all restraint and challenged authority in every form, that he should have
located his ancestry among the sworn royalists of the seventeenth century.

William Toombs, the great-grandfather of Robert, was the first of the English family to come
to America, about 1650. He settled in Virginia. Gabriel, who fought with Braddock, was the
son of William. Major Robert Toombs, the father of the Georgia statesman, commanded a Virginia
regiment during the Revolution and rendered conspicuous service in Georgia against the British.
Major Toombs came to Georgia in 1783 and received a rich tract of 3000 acres of land in Wilkes
County. This was their share in the award to distinguished soldiers of "the Virginia line."

"They fought for their estates like feudal barons," General Toombs used to say, when speaking
of his ancestors, now sleeping in the red hills of Georgia. When he was asked after the civil
war why he did not petition for relief of political disabilities, he declared that "no vote
of Congress, no amnesty proclamation, shall rob me of the glory of outlawry. I shall not be
the first of my name for three centuries to accept the stigma of a pardon."

The elder Gabriel Toombs in 1795 made his last will and testament. He commended his soul to
God who gave it, and blessed his Maker for the worldly goods that he was possessed of. Distributing
his estate among his wife, Ann Toombs, and his six children, he expressly directed that his
negroes and their increase must be appraised together; that they were not to be sold out of
the family, and that they should be "used in a Christian-like manner." He divided up parcels
of land in Greene and Wilkes counties among his sons, Robert Toombs and Dawson Gabriel Toombs,
and his four daughters. Gabriel Toombs died in 1801.

When Major Robert Toombs, the Virginia veteran, and son of Gabriel, came to Georgia to claim
his award of land, he settled on Beaverdam Creek, five miles from the town of Washington. It
is probable that he stopped in Columbia County, for he married Miss Sanders, of that county.
She died, leaving no children, and Major Toombs went back to Virginia and married Miss Catlett.
One son was born, and this lady died. Miss Catharine Huling was the third wife. The Hulings
were also Virginians, and by this marriage six children were reared. Sarah, who finally became
Mrs. Pope; James, who was killed by accident while hunting; Augustus, Robert, and Gabriel.

