"To obtain the same result by Plante's method, months are required. The entire experiments
have been effected with No. 2, which has a surface of two square meters. This apparatus, if
charged to saturation, gives 62 ampere hours as its total capacity, and, as in the Plante,
this capacity constantly increases with use. The normal rule for the charge is 10 amperes per
square meter, and for the discharge double this quantity. This apparatus has always given me
on discharging 40 amperes at the E.M.F. of 1.85 volts during 60 or 65 minutes. The charge is
effected in two hours up to 20 amperes, without any appreciable loss of electricity.

"The points to be aimed at in an accumulator are longevity and energy, or, rather, rapid yield
per kilo. From both points of view accumulators of the Plante type (and consequently those
of Montaud) are far superior to those of the Faure type. My opinion, therefore, is that the
Montaud accumulator is very practical, that it is a great improvement on the Plante type, and
that it can compete successfully with the other systems in use."--Revue Internationale de l'Electricite.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRIC REGISTERING APPARATUS FOR METEOROLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS.

Mr. E. Gime, whose name is not unknown to our readers, sends us a description of a certain
number of meteorological apparatus to which he has applied a peculiar method of registering
that it is of interest to make known.

Mr. Gime in the first place has devised a "telemareograph," that is to say, an apparatus designed
to register at a distance the curve of the motions of the tide in a given place. The structure
of this device, shown diagramatically in Fig. 1, is very simple. It is divided into two distinct
parts--a transmitter and a registering apparatus. The transmitter consists of a long glass
tube, A, closed at one end and communicating through the other with a receptacle filled with
mercury. A barometric vacuum is formed in this tube. The level of the open receptacle corresponds
exactly to the level of the lowest tide.

Pieces of iron wire projecting sufficiently in the interior to establish good contacts with
the column of mercury are fastened one millimeter apart to the inner surface of the tube. These
iron contacts are connected with the divisions of a rheostat, R, arranged in a tight compartment
surrounded with paraffine, near the tube.

This rheostat is interposed in the general circuit. It is connected through one extremity with
the line, and through the other with a disk of copper, which has a surface of one square meter,
and is immersed in the sea.

The line, L, insulated like an ordinary telegraph wire, is prolonged as far as to the registering
station.

The registering apparatus consists of a solenoid, S, that acts upon a soft iron core suspended
by a cord from the extremity, x, of the beam of a balance. This cord passes between the channels
of two rollers designed, despite the motion of the beam, to keep the core in a vertical position
in the center of the solenoid.

The opposite arm of the balance carries a sliding weight, i, that moves over a graduated scale
and is designed to balance the core, N, in a certain position in regulating the motions of
the curve. At its extremity it carries a style that bears against the drum, T, on which the
paper is wound that is to receive the mareometric curve.

The solenoid, S, is interposed in the general circuit, being connected on the one hand with
the line, L, and on the other with a very constant battery of an electromotive force proportioned
to the resistance of the circuit.

Through the electrode that remains free, the battery is grounded with so great care that no
variation in resistance can be produced thereby. If the station is near the sea, the conductor
of this electrode may be run to a copper disk, having the same surface as the one at the transmitting
station. With this description, the operation of the apparatus may be easily understood.

At low water, the pressure of the atmosphere balances a column of mercury rising in a glass
tube to a height proportionate to such pressure. In measure as the level of the water rises,
the pressure on the mercury in the receptacle increases, and causes the metal to rise in the
tube. The higher the level of the sea, the less becomes the sum of the resistances of the rheostat,
since the column of mercury puts in short circuit all the divisions of the rheostat, whose
contacts are comprised in the height of the column.

From these variations in the resistance of the circuit naturally result variations in the current
from the battery, B, at the registering station. To the variations in intensity of the current
in the circuit there correspond variations in the attraction of the solenoid for the core that
transmits these motions to the balance that carries the registering style, which latter amplifies
or reduces them.

The same transmitter suffices for various registering stations arranged in series, as shown
in Fig. 2.

The variations in the resistance of the circuit, due to variations in the temperature, and
the variations in the height of the column of mercury, due to atmospheric variations, etc.,
are, according to the inventor, of no importance.

It would evidently be possible, on the same principle, to construct an apparatus for registering
the indications of a thermometer at a distance.

Such is the principle of Mr. Gime's apparatus. We do not believe that they are entirely closed
to criticism. What, in fact, are the conditions essential for their proper working? Evidently:
(1) the constancy of the battery used; (2) a rigorously accurate adjustment. This latter condition,
is easily realized; but the same is not the case with the former. Of what elements shall this
constant battery be formed?

Mr. Gime recommends the use of the Latimer-Clark elements. Every one knows that the Latimer-Clark
element is now the best standard of electromotive force; but let us not forget that this is
on condition of its being employed in open circuit. Now, it is not a question here of an open
circuit, nor even of infinitely weak currents, since in the line we have a solenoid whose core
must set in motion a whole system of connected pieces. We do not see any possibility of employing
Latimer-Clark elements; on the contrary, it seems to us indispensable to select piles of large
discharge, since the solenoid, S, will attract nothing at all unless a notable quantity of
energy is expended in it.

Is there a pile of this kind so constant as not to render a rigorously accurate adjustment
illusory? Therein lies the entire question, and for our part we hesitate to pronounce ourselves
in the negative.--La Lumiere Electrique.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CLINICAL LESSON AT "LA SALPETRIERE."

We reproduce the picture of Mr. Andre Brouillet, which was in the Salon of 1887; and that the
subject may be better understood, we give the accompanying sketch and description. This picture
is very interesting, not only from an artistic point of view, but also as a representation
of students and spectators of all ages admirably grouped around a great master of science when
most interested in his work. We borrow from Matin-Salon Mr. Goetschy's explanation of the picture:

"The hall in which the lesson is given is lighted by two large windows opening on one of the
courts of the hospital. The Professor stands at the right of the picture, his head uncovered,
one hand close to his body and the other extended slightly in a gesture which is familiar to
him, his audience being before him. At his side is Mr. Babinski, chief of the clinic, supporting
a person afflicted with hysteria. Near the latter stands a nurse and assistant who watches
every movement of the patient. This is Mother Bottard, a good, intelligent, and devoted woman,
who is well known to all those present.

"The auditors have arranged themselves at the students' tables, some seated on the chairs and
stools which furnish the room, and others standing, but all following closely the teaching
of the master, and at the same time watching the subject. The picture is full of life and motion,
and yet is very exact. The head and shoulders of the subject are beautifully and correctly
drawn. The artist has brought together many men who are well known in literature and science."--Le
Monde Illustre.

       *       *       *       *       *

[NATURE.]

TO FIND THE DAY OF THE WEEK FOR ANY GIVEN DATE.

Having hit upon the following method of mentally computing the day of the week for any given
date, I send it you in the hope that it may interest some of your readers. I am not a rapid
computer myself, and as I find my average time for doing any such question is about 20 seconds,
I have little doubt that a rapid computer would not need 15.

Take the given date in 4 portions, viz., the number of centuries, the number of years over,
the month, the day of the month.

Compute the following 4 items, adding each, when found, to the total of the previous items.
When an item or total exceeds 7, divide by 7, and keep the remainder only.

The Century Item.--For old style (which ended September 2, 1752) subtract from 18. For new
style (which began September 14) divide by 4, take overplus from 3, multiply remainder by 2.

The Year Item.--Add together the number of dozens, the overplus, and the number of 4's in the
overplus.

The Month Item.--If it begins or ends with a vowel, subtract the number denoting its place
in the year from 10. This, plus its number of days, gives the item for the following month.
The item for January is "0;" for February or March (the 3d month), "3;" for December (the 12th
month), "12."

The Day Item is the day of the month.

The total thus reached must be corrected by deducting "1" (first adding 7, if the total be
"0"), if the date be January or February in a leap year; remembering that every year divisible
by 4 is a leap year, excepting only the century years, in new style, when the number of centuries
is not so divisible (e.g., 1800).

The final result gives the day of the week, "0" meaning Sunday, "1" Monday, and so on.

EXAMPLES.

1783, September 18.

17 divided by 4 leaves "1" over; 1 from 3 gives "2;" twice 2 is "4."

83 is 6 dozen and 11, giving 17; plus 2 gives 19, i.e. (dividing by 7), "5." Total 9, i.e., "2."

The item for August is "8 from 10," i.e., "2;" so, for September, it is "2 plus 3," i.e., "5."
Total 7, i.e., "0," which goes out.

18 gives "4." Answer, "Thursday."

1676, February 23.

16 from 18 gives "2."

76 is 6 dozen and 4, giving 10; plus 1 gives 11, i.e., "4." Total "6."

The item for February is "3." Total 9, i.e., "2."

23 gives "2." Total "4."

Correction for leap year gives "3." Answer, "Wednesday."

LEWIS CARROLL.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRECIOUS STONES OF THE UNITED STATES.

To the recently distributed government report on the mineral resources of the United States
for 1885.[1] Mr. G.F. Kunz contributes an interesting chapter in which is recorded the progress
made during that year in the discovery and utilization of precious stones.

[Footnote 1: Mineral Resources of the United States: Calendar Year 1885. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1888.]

In the summer of 1885, a remarkably large pocket containing fine crystals of muscovite, with
brilliant crystals of rutile implanted on them, was found at the Emerald and Hiddenite Mining
Company's works, at Stony Point, N.C., and was sold in the form of cabinet specimens for $750.
While the soil overlying the rock was being worked, nine crystals of emerald were found, all
of which were doubly terminated, and measured from 1 inch to 3-1/8 inches in length and 1-2/3
inch in width. One of these crystals is very perfect as a specimen, being of a fine light green
color, and weighing 8¾ ounces. It is held by the company at $1,500, and the nine crystals together
at $3,000. Another of these crystals, doubly terminated, measures 2½ inches by 11/12 of an
inch, and is filled with large rhombohedral cavities, which formerly contained dolomite. The
only crystal from this collection that has been cut into a gem was found in a pocket at a depth
of over 43 feet. In color it is of a pleasing light green, and it weighs 4-22/32 carats. No
crystal of a finer color has as yet been found in the United States, and the gem is held by
the company at $200.

During the recent mining, the largest fine crystal of lithia emerald ever found was also brought
to light. It measures 2¾ inches by 3/5 of an inch by 1/3 of an inch. One end is of a very fine
color, and would afford the largest gem of this mineral yet found, and one which would probably
weigh 5½ carats. With this there was a number of superior crystals and some ounces of common
pieces of the same mineral. The company estimates the value of this entire yield of hiddenite
at about $2,500.

There was also found a quantity of quartz filled with white byssolite, forming very attractive
specimens and valued at $250.

A number of beryls of a fine blue color, resembling the Mourne Mountain specimens, were found
near Mount Antero, Chaffee County, Col. One of these was 4 inches long and 3/8 of an inch across,
with cutting material in it. The other crystals measured from 1 to 1¼ inch in length, and from
1/5 to 1/3 inch in width.

The large beryl mentioned by Mr. Kunz in the Mineral Resources for 1883 and 1884 has afforded
the finest aquamarine of American origin known. It is brilliant as a cut gem, and, with the
exception of a few internal hair-like striæ, is absolutely perfect. It weighs 133¾ carats,
measures 1-2/5 × 1-2/5 × 4/5 inch, and is of a deep bluish green, equal to that of gems from
any known locality.

Mr. G.F. Breed, manager of the Valencia Mica Company, has cut nearly one hundred aquamarines,
ranging from ½ carat to 4 carats in weight, and of a light blue color, from white beryls found
in the company's mica mine at North Grafton, N.H.

A number of fine, deep golden-yellow, blue, and green beryls, equaling any ever found, have
been taken by Mr. M.W. Barse from his mica mine between New Milford and Litchfield, Conn. Some
fine blood-red garnets from this same locality have been cut into gems.

The largest phenacite crystal ever found is owned by Mr. Whitman Cross. It was discovered at
Crystal Park, Col., weighs 59 pennyweights 6 grains, and measures 1-4/5 inch in length and
1-1/5 inch in thickness.

Thousands of garnet crystals, found at Ruby Mountain, near Salides, Col., have been made into
paperweights and sold to tourists. Those that weigh a few ounces sell for about ten cents each.
One was sold that weighed 14 pounds. Apropos of garnets, the discovery, in the heart of New
York city, of as fine a crystal as was ever found on this continent, and weighing 9 pounds
10 ounces, may be mentioned as a matter of peculiar interest.

Several thousand dollars' worth of the wood jasper of Arizona has been cut into paper weights,
charms, and other objects, or polished on one side for cabinet specimens. Numbers of these
articles are now being cut and sold to tourists along the line of the Atchison, Topeka, and
Santa Fe Railroad.

The compact quartzite of Sioux Falls, Dakota, is being quarried and polished for ornamental
purposes. It is known and sold as "Sioux Falls jasper," and is really the stone referred to
by Longfellow in his Hiawatha as being used for arrow heads. This stone takes a very high polish,
and is found in a variety of pleasing tints, such as chocolate, brownish-red, brick-red, and
yellowish. For the two years previous to 1885, $15,000 worth of it was sold.

A remarkable mass of rock crystal has been received by Messrs. Tiffany & Co. from a locality
near Cave City, Va. Although this mass weighs 51 pounds, it is but a fragment of the original
crystal, which weighed 300 pounds, and which was broken in pieces by the ignorant mountain
girl who found it. The fragment, as it is, will furnish slabs 8 inches square and from 1/3
to 1 inch thick. The original crystal would have furnished a ball from 4½ to 5 inches in diameter,
and almost perfect. A number of fine agates of various kinds were found by Mr. F.C. Yeomans
at the same locality.

The meccanite from Cumberland, R.I., is often spotted with white quartz. It has been cut into
oval stones several inches in length, which take a fine polish. This quality, coupled with
its hardness, makes it a desirable ornamental gem stone.

Mr. Kunz records the discovery, by himself, in the largest mass of the Glorieta Mountain (Santa
Fe County, N.M.), of pieces of peridot of sufficient transparency to afford gems one-fifth
of an inch in length.

Large quantities of turquoise from Los Cevillos, N.M., have been sold, both as cabinet specimens
and gems; but, unfortunately, many of those of the finest color have been found to be artificially
colored.

Malachite in large masses has been found at the Copper Queen mine at Bisbee, Oregon. One of
these masses weighed 15 pounds and others were quite as large. All were of good enough quality
and large enough for table tops.

In conclusion, Mr. Kunz says that "the National Museum collection of gems, formed by Prof.
F.W. Clarke, is now one of the most complete, for species, in the United States, and as many
of the gems are of more than average merit, and all can have access to them, this is one of
the best opportunities afforded the student in this country."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRAZIL NUT.

Every one is acquainted with the hard-shelled, triangular fruit called the Brazil nut, but
there are, perhaps, but few who know anything about the tree that produces it, or its mode
of growth. The Brazil nut tree belongs to a genus of Lecythidaceæ of which there is only one
species, Bertholletia excelsa. This tree is a native of Guiana, Venezuela, and Brazil. It forms
large forests on the banks of the Amazons and Rio Negro, and likewise about Esmeraldas, on
the Orinoco, where the natives call it juvia. The natives of Brazil call the fruit capucaya,
while to the Portuguese it is known as castaña de marañon.

The tree is one of the most majestic in the South American forests, attaining a height of 100
or 150 feet. Its trunk is straight and cylindrical, and measures about 3 or 4 feet in diameter.
The bark is grayish and very even. At a distance, the tree somewhat resembles a chestnut. Its
branches are alternate, open, very long, and droop toward the earth. The leaves are alternate,
oblong, short petioled, nearly coriaceous, about 2 feet long by 6 inches wide, entire or undivided,
and of a bright green color. The flowers have a two-parted, deciduous calyx, six unequal cream-colored
petals, and numerous stamens united into a broad, hood-shaped mass, those at the base being
fertile, and the upper ones sterile.

The fruit is nearly orbicular, and about 6 inches in diameter, and has a hard shell about half
an inch thick, which contains from 18 to 24 triangular, wrinkled seeds that are so beautifully
packed within the shell that when once disturbed it is impossible to replace them. When these
fruits are ripe, they fall from the tree and are collected into heaps by troops of Indians
called Castanhieros, who visit the forests at the proper season of the year expressly for this
purpose. They are then split open with an ax, and the seeds (the Brazil nuts of commerce) taken
out and packed in baskets for transportation to Para in the native canoes. The "meat" that
the Brazil nut contains consists of a white substance of the same nature as that of the common
almond, and which is good to eat when fresh, but which, by reason of its very oily nature,
soon gets rancid. Besides its use as an article of dessert, a bland oil, used by watchmakers
and artists, is obtained from the nut by pressure. Brazil nuts form a considerable article
of export from the port of Para, whence they are sometimes called Para nuts.

The Brazil nut tree remained for a long time unknown to European botanists, although the fruit
has been from a very remote epoch consumed in large quantities in certain southern countries
of the New World. The first description of the tree we owe to Humboldt and Bonpland, who established
the genus and species in the botanical part of the account of their voyage. The genus is dedicated
to the illustrious Berthollet.

"We were very fortunate," say these authors, "to find some of these nuts in our travels on
the Orinoco. For three months we had been living on nothing but poor chocolate and rice cooked
in water, always without butter, and often without salt, when we procured a large quantity
of the fresh fruits of the Bertholletia. It was along in June, and the natives had just gathered
them."

The formation of a large woody fruit, often in the shape of an urn, from which the top spontaneously
separates in the form of a lid, is one of the characteristics of the order Lecythidaceæ, which
includes the Couronpita Guianensis, or "cannon ball tree"; the gigantic Lecythis ollaria, or
"monkey-pot tree," whose great woody pericarps serve as drinking vessels; and the Lecythis
Zabucajo, whose fruit is known in the market as sapucaia nuts, and is greatly superior to the
closely allied Brazil nuts as regards flavor and ease of digestion.

All the trees of this order are natives of South America, and especially of Guiana.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ACTION OF THE MAGNET IN HYPNOSIS.

Mr. Tamburini some time ago observed that, during a period of lethargy, the approach of a magnet
produced in persons affected with hysterical hypnosis a series of modifications of the respiratory
functions and of contractility.

From some very careful experiments made by him and Mr. Righi in common, upon the lady who was
the principal subject of his observations, it results that (1) it makes no difference whether
the magnet be presented by its poles or its neutral line; (2) that any mass of metal whatever
acts like a magnet; (3) that an electromagnet produces exactly the same effect whether it be
or be not excited by a current; and (4) that a glass tube filled with cold or warm water likewise
produces analogous effects, which disappear when the water is raised to the temperature of
the human body.

It seems, therefore, that the magnetic properties of the magnet count for nothing in the phenomena
observed.--Journal de Physique.