For the peopling and maintenance of the Home a novel and very pretty device has been invented.
Everyone has heard of the marraines of France during the War--those ladies who made themselves
responsible each for the comfort of a poilu, sending him gifts of food and cigarettes, writing
him letters and so forth. It is the marraine--or godmother--system which is being adopted and
adapted for "Botches." The house can accommodate fifty children, and as many godmothers or
godfathers are needed, each of whom will be responsible for one child for a year, at a minimum
cost of fifty pounds. The Duchess of MARLBOROUGH, who has just been elected a Southwark County
Councillor, was the first to accept this honourable privilege, and other ladies and gentlemen
have already joined her; but there are still many vacancies. Mr. Punch, who has very great
pleasure in giving publicity to Mrs. KIMMINS'S most admirable scheme, would be proud indeed
if the other godparents were found among his readers. All communications on the subject should
be addressed to the Hon. Treasurer, Miss A.C. RENNIE, the Heritage Craft Schools, Chailey, Sussex.

"Botches," it should be added, is not to be the Home's final name. The final name--something
descriptive of the work before it and its ideal of restoration--has yet to be found. Perhaps
some of Mr. Punch's readers have suggestions.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "NAVAL SQUADRON IN ROME.

    ROME, Sunday.

    The special Brazilian naval squadron, comprising the cruiser
    Bahia and four destroyers, under the command of Admiral
    Defrontin, arrived to-day."--Evening Paper.

Like the British Army, it looks as if the Brazilian Navy can "go anywhere."

       *       *       *       *       *

A WASTED TALENT.

  Fresh knowledge of a varied kind
    While in the army I acquired,
  Some useful, which I didn't mind,
    And much that made me tired;
  But one result was undesigned;
    It cost me neither toil nor care:
  Swiftly and surely, with the ease
  Of drinking beer or shelling peas,
    War taught me how to swear.

  Widely my power was recognised;
    The hardiest soldier shook like froth,
  And even mules were paralysed
    To hear me voice my wrath;
  Unhappy he and ill-advised
    Who dared withstand when I reviled;
  Have I not seen a whole platoon
  Wilt and grow pale and almost swoon
    When I was really wild?

  But now those happy days are past;
    A mild civilian once again,
  I dare not even whisper "----!"
    If something gives me pain;
  Barred are those curses, surging fast,
    That swift and stinging repartee;
  Instead of words that peal and crash
  I breathe a soft innocuous "Dash!"
    Or murmur, "Dearie me!"

  Yet sometimes still, when on the rack
    And past all due forbearance tried,
  The ancient fierce desire comes back,
    I seem to boil inside;
  And then I take a hefty sack,
    I place my head within, and thus
  Loose off, in some secluded niche,
  A deep, whole-hearted, grateful, rich,
    Sustained, delirious cuss.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SLUMP IN MONARCHY.

From a publisher's advertisement:--

  THE PRICE OF
    A THRONE
     -----
    1/6 NETT

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The scratching of the hydroplane Sutnrise for the Atlantic
    Flight Stakes must tempt her captain to change his name from
    Sunstedt to Sunsttd."--Provincial Paper.

We fear the printer did not appreciate the sub-editor's humour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Until they get a barber the Islington Board of Guardians are
    employing a gardener to do hair-cutting and shaving work in
    his spare time at a remuneration of 1s. 3d. per hour."--Daily
    Express.

But we understand that he is expected to provide his own scythe.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD SHIPS.

  They called 'em from the breakers' yards, the shores of Dead Men's Bay,
  From coaling wharves the wide world round, red-rusty where they lay,
  And chipped and caulked and scoured and tarred and sent 'em on their way.

  It didn't matter what they were nor what they once had been,
  They cleared the decks of harbour-junk and scraped the stringers clean
  And turned 'em out to try their luck with the mine and submarine ...

  With a scatter o' pitch and a plate or two,
    And she's fit for the risks o' war---
  Fit for to carry a freight or two,
    The same as she used before;
  To carry a cargo here and there,
  And what she carries she don't much care,
  Boxes or barrels or baulks or bales,
  Coal or cotton or nuts or nails,
  Pork or pepper or Spanish beans,
  Mules or millet or sewing-machines,
  Or a trifle o' lumber from Hastings Mill ...
  She's carried 'em all and she'll carry 'em still,
    The same as she's done before.

  And some were waiting for a freight, and some were laid away,
  And some were liners that had broke all records in their day,
  And some were common eight-knot tramps that couldn't make it pay.

  And some were has-been sailing cracks of famous old renown,
  Had logged their eighteen easy when they ran their easting down
  With cargo, mails and passengers bound South from London Town ...

  With a handful or two o' ratline stuff,
    And she's fit for to sail once more;
  She's rigged and she's ready and right enough,
    The same as she was before;
  The same old ship on the same old road
  She's always used and she's always knowed,
  For there isn't a blooming wind can blow
  In all the latitudes, high or low,
  Nor there isn't a kind of sea that rolls,
  From both the Tropics to both the Poles,
  But she's knowed 'em all since she sailed sou' Spain,
  She's weathered the lot, and she'll do it again,
    The same as she's done before.

  And sail or steam or coasting craft, the big ships with the small,
  The barges which were steamers once, the hulks that once were tall,
  They wanted tonnage cruel bad, and so they fetched 'em all.

  And some went out as fighting-craft and shipped a fighting crew,
  But most they tramped the same old road they always used to do,
  With a crowd of merchant-sailormen, as might be me or you ...

  With a lick o' paint and a bucket o' tar,
    And she's fit for the seas once more,
  To carry the Duster near and far,
    The same as she used before;
  The same old Rag on the same old round,
  Bar Light vessel and Puget Sound,
  Brass and Bonny and Grand Bassam,
  Both the Rios and Rotterdam--
  Dutch and Dagoes, niggers and Chinks,
  Palms and fire-flies, spices and stinks--
  Portland (Oregon), Portland (Maine),
  She's been there once and she'll go there again,
    The same as she's been before.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Their bones are strewed to every tide from Torres Strait to Tyne--
  God's truth, they've paid their blooming dues to the tin-fish and
    the mine,
  By storm or calm, by night or day, from Longships light to Line.

  With a bomb or a mine or a bursting shell,
    And she'll follow the seas no more,
  She's fetched and carried and served you well,
    The same as she's done before--
  They've fetched and carried and gone their way,
  As good ships should and as brave men may ...
  And we'll build 'em still, and we'll breed 'em again,
  The same good ships and the same good men,
  The same--the same--the same as we've done before!

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FIRST-CLASS MISDEMEANANT.

Cozens has a conscience--a conformist conscience--and is a first-class season-ticket holder.

The other morning we were travelling up to town together as usual. He was evidently bursting
with the anticipatory pride of telling me something very much to his credit. Presently, at
a gap in my reading, he said:--

"I left my season at home this morning, so I bought a return."

"What on earth for?" I expostulated. "You've already paid the company once by taking out a
season; why pay twice? And anyhow it's only the Government."

"It's the first duty of a citizen to obey the laws of his country," he proclaimed sententiously.

"Oh, all right; but you'll never get your money back--not from the Government. Besides, you
could easily have got through without a ticket."

"How?"

"By taking out your note-case at the barrier and showing the girl the back of a Bradbury. Dazzled
by the display of so much wealth, she'd pass you without a murmur."

"A miserable subterfuge," Cozens protested.

"Or you and I might walk up to the barrier deep in conversation. I should then get in front,
and the examiner would pull me up for my ticket. I should fumble before producing my season.
Meantime you would have passed beyond recall."

"I simply couldn't do it."

"Or why not pay at the barrier, if you must pay?"

"Yes, and lose the return ticket rate. How should I get down to-night?"

"That's easy. Buy a platform ticket. The man at the gate at home will pass you; he knows you."

"All underhand work," said Cozens. "It's much more dignified to buy a ticket."

Just then a travelling inspector entered our carriage.

"Tickets, gentlemen, please!"

And Cozens, looking supremely undignified, produced a third-class return, and tried to explain.
Not that anyone even meeting Sylvia for the first time in mid-course could fail to be intrigued
by the astounding things that are continually happening to her. The variety and piquancy of
these events and the general brilliance of Mr. MACKENZIE'S colouring must keep the reader alert,
curious, scandalized (perhaps), but always expectant. His scheme starts with an invigorating
plunge (as one might say, off the deep end) into the cabaret society of Petrograd in 1914,
where Sylvia and the more than queer company at the pension of Mère Gontran are surprised by
the outbreak of war. Incidentally, Mère Gontran herself, with her cats, whose tails wave in
the gloom "like seaweed," and her tawdry spiritualism--"key-hole peeping at infinity" the heroine
(or the author) rather happily calls it--is one of the least forgettable figures in the galaxy.
I have no space to indicate what turns of this glittering kaleidoscope eventually bring Sylvia
and Michael together during the Serbian retreat, though there are scenes upon which I should
like to dwell, notably that of the death of Guy Hazlewood, an incident whose admirable restraint
shows Mr. MACKENZIE at his best. One question I have to ask, and that is how has Sylvia learnt
to imitate so bewilderingly the mannerisms of Michael? Her soliloquies especially might have
come straight from the first volume of Sinister Street, so much more do they suggest the cloistered
adolescence of Carlington Road than a development from her own feverish youth. While I cannot
pretend that she has for me the compelling vitality of Jenny Pearl, her adventures certainly
make (for those who are not too nice about the morals or the conversation of their company)
an exhilarating, even intoxicating entertainment, the end of which is, I am glad to think,
still remote.

       *       *       *       *       *

