 He afterwards
aided his royal mistress to escape from Lochleven Castle, in 1568, and conducted her to Niddry
Castle, his own seat. When, in gratitude for his fidelity, Mary would have created him an Earl,
Lord Seaton declined the honour, and preferred his existing rank as Premier Baron of Scotland.
Mary celebrated his determination in a couplet, written both in French and in Latin:

    "Il y a des comtes, des rois, des ducs aussi,
    Ce't assez pour moy d'estre Signeur de Seton."

The successor of Lord Seaton, Robert, judged differently from his father, and accepted from
James the Sixth the patent for the Earldom of Wintoun; distinguishing the new honour by a courage
which procured for him the appellation of "Greysteel."[5]

George, the fifth Earl of Wintoun, and the unfortunate adherent to the Jacobite cause, succeeded
to the honours of his ancestors under circumstances peculiarly embarrassing. His legitimacy
was doubted: at the time when his father died, this ill-fated young man was abroad, his residence
was obscure; and as he held no correspondence with any of his relations, little was known with
regard to his personal character. In consequence partly of his absence from Scotland, partly,
it is said, of an actual hereditary tendency, a belief soon prevailed that he was insane, or
rather, as a contemporary expresses it, "mighty subject to a particular kind of caprice natural
to his family."[6]

The Viscount Kingston, next heir to the title of Wintoun, having expressed his objections to
Lord Wintoun's legitimacy, the young man, in 1710, took steps to establish himself as his father's
heir. Two witnesses were produced who were present at the marriage of his parents, and bonds
were found in the family chests, designating Lord Wintoun as "our eldest lawful son," by Dame
Christian Hepburn Countess of Wintoun, "our spouse." This important point being established,
Lord Wintoun served himself heir to his father and became the possessor of the family estates,
chiefly situated in East Lothian, their principal residence being the palace of Seaton, so
recognized in the royal charters, from its having been the favourite resort of royalty, the
scene of entertainment to Mary of Scots, and her court, and the residence of Charles the First,
when in Scotland in 1633. It was afterwards the place of meeting for the Jacobite nobles, and
their adherents.[7]

Differing from many of his companions in arms, Lord Wintoun was a zealous Protestant; but without
any regard to the supremacy of either mode of faith, it appears to have been a natural consequence
of his birth and early associations that he should cling to the house of the Stuarts. One would
almost have applied to the young nobleman the term "recreant," had he wavered when the descendant
of Mary Stuart claimed his services. But such a course was far from his inclination. It was
afterwards deemed expedient by his friends to plead for him on the ground of natural weakness
of intellect; "but," says a contemporary, "Lord Wintoun wants no courage, nor so much capacity
as his friends find it for his interest to suggest."[8] He was forward in action, and stimulated
the military ardour of his followers, as they rushed with their ancient cry of "Set-on" to
the combat. The earliest motto borne on these arms by the Seatons, "Hazard, yet forward," might
indeed be mournfully applied to all who engaged in the hopeless Rebellion of 1715.

Lord Wintoun, like Lord Derwentwater, was in the bloom of his youth when he summoned his tenantry
to follow him to the rendezvous appointed by Lord Kenmure. He took with him three hundred men
to the standard of James Stuart; but he appears to have carried with him a fiery and determined
temper,--the accompaniment, perhaps, of noble qualities, but a dangerous attribute in times
of difficulty.

Robert Dalzell, sixth Earl of Carnwath, was another of those Scottish noblemen whose adherence
to the Stuarts can only be regarded as a natural consequence of their birth and education.
The origin of his family, which was of great antiquity in the county of Lanark, but had been
transplanted into Nithisdale, is referred to in the following anecdote. In the reign of Kenneth
the Second, a kinsman of the King having been taken and hung by the Picts, a great reward was
offered by Kenneth, if any one would rescue and restore the corpse of his relation. The enterprise
was so hazardous, that no one would venture on so great a risk. "At last," so runs the tale,
"a certain gentleman came to the King, and said, 'Dalziel,' which is the old Scottish word
for 'I dare.' He performed his engagement, and won for himself and his posterity the name which
he had verified, and an armorial bearing corresponding to the action."

To James the First and to Charles the First the Dalziels owed their honours, and had the usual
fortune of paying dearly for them, during the Great Rebellion, by sequestration, and by the
imprisonment of Robert, first Earl of Carnwath, after the battle of Worcester, whither he attended
Charles the Second. Undaunted by the adversities which his house had formerly endured, Robert
Dalzell, of Glenæ, sixth Earl of Carnwath, again came forward in 1715 to maintain the principles
in which he had been nurtured, and to assist the family for whom his ancestors had suffered.
During his childhood, the tutor of this nobleman had made it his chief care to instil into
his mind the doctrine of hereditary right, and its consequent, passive obedience and non-resistance.
At the University of Cambridge, young Dalzell had imbibed an affection for the liturgy and
discipline of the Church of England; whilst his attainments had kept pace with the qualities
of his heart, and the graces of his deportment. He was, in truth, a young man of fair promise,
and one whose fate excited great interest, when a sombre tranquillity had succeeded to the
turbulence of rebellion. Gentle in his address, affable, kind-hearted, Lord Carnwath had a
natural and ready wit, and a great command of language, to which his English education had
doubtless contributed. He was related by a former marriage between the families to the Earl
of Wintoun, whose troop was commanded by Captain James Dalzell, the brother of Lord Carnwath.
This young officer had served in the army of George the First, but he threw up his commission
at the beginning of the Rebellion,--a circumstance which saved him from being shot at Preston
as a deserter.[9]

Robert Balfour, fifth Earl of Burleigh, was among the chiefs who, shortly after the outbreak,
avowed their adherence to the Pretender's party. He was one of the few Jacobites whose personal
character has reflected discredit upon his motives, and disgraced his compeers: his story has
the air of romance, but is perfectly reconcilable with the spirit of the times in which Lord
Burleigh figured.

When a very young man he became attached to a girl of low rank, and was sent abroad by his
friends in hopes of removing his attachment. Before he quitted Scotland, he swore, however,
that if the young woman married in his absence, he would kill her husband. Upon returning home,
he found that the unfortunate object of his affections had been united to Henry Stenhouse,
the schoolmaster at Inverkeithing. The threat had not been uttered without a deep meaning:
young Balfour kept his word, and hastening to the school where Stenhouse was pursuing his usual
duties, he stabbed him in the midst of his scholars. The victim of this murderous attack died
twelve days afterwards.

Nearly eight years had elapsed since the crime had been perpetrated, and the wretched murderer
had encountered, since that time, his trial, in the Court of Justiciary, and had received sentence
of death by beheading; but he escaped from prison a few days previously, by exchanging clothes
with his sister. He was then a commoner; but in 1714, the title of Lord Burleigh, and an estate
of six hundred and ninety-seven pounds yearly, devolved upon him. When the Rebellion broke
out, his restless spirit, as well, perhaps, as the loss of reputation, and the miseries of
reflection, impelled him to enter into the contest.

Such were the principal promoters of the insurrection in the south of Scotland; they were held
together by firm bonds of sympathy, and their plans were concerted in renewed conferences at
stated periods.

The twenty-ninth of May was, of course, religiously observed by this increasing and formidable
party. During the previous year (1714) the Jacobite gentry had met at Lochmaben, under pretence
of a horse-racing; and, although it does not appear that the Earl of Nithisdale was among those
who assembled on that occasion, yet several of his kinsmen attended. The plates which were
the prizes had significant devices: on one of them were wrought figures of men in a falling
posture; above them stood one "eminent person," the Pretender, underneath whom were inscribed
the words from Ezekiel, xxi. 27, "I will overturn, overturn, overturn it: and it shall be no
more, until he come whose right it is, and I will give it him." When the races were ended,
Lord Burleigh, then Master of Burleigh, led the way to the Cross of Lochmaben, where, with
great solemnity, drums beating, and colours displayed, those there colected drank to "their
King's health;" the Master of Burleigh giving the toast, and uttering an imprecation on all
such as should refuse to pledge it. These meetings had been continued for several years, and,
during the reign of Queen Anne, without any molestation from Government.[10] Lord Nithisdale
took a decided part in all these measures, and was one of those who were considered as entirely
to be trusted by the Earl of Mar, with regard to the projected arrival of the Pretender in
Scotland. On the sixth of August, 1715, that project was communicated by Mar to the Earl of
Nithisdale, through the medium of Captain Dalzell, who was despatched likewise to Lord Kenmure,
and to the Earl of Carnwath. Lord Nithisdale obeyed the summons, and met the great council
of the Jacobite nobles at Braemar, where the decisive and irrevocable step was taken.

Lord Nithisdale, in common with the other members of what was now termed the Jacobite Association,
had been diligently preparing the contest. Meetings of the Association had been frequent, and
even public. The finest horses had been bought up at any cost, with saddles and accoutrements,
and numbers of horse-shoes. Many country gentlemen, who were in the habit of keeping only two
or three saddle-horses at a time, now collected double the number; and a suspicion prevailed
that it was the intention of some, who were Jacobites, to mount a troop. But no seizure had
been made of their property in the last reign, there being few justices of the peace in Dumfriesshire,
nominated by Queen Anne, who were not in the service of the Chevalier.[11] Trained bands were,
however, soon raised by the well-affected gentry of the county for the protection of the neighbourhood;
and Nithisdale was traversed by armed bands,--Closeburn House, then the residence of Sir Thomas
Kirkpatrick,[12] being a frequent point of union for the friends of the Hanoverian interests
to assemble.[13] At Trepons, in the upper part of Nithisdale, was the first blood drawn that
was shed in this disastrous quarrel, Mr. Bell of Nimsea, a Jacobite gentleman, being there
shot through the leg by one of the guards, on his refusing to obey orders.[14] The occurrence
was typical of the remorseless cruelty which was afterwards exhibited towards the brave but
unfortunate insurgents.

