With great minuteness of observation he had an amplitude of comprehension such as has never
yet been vouchsafed to any other human being.

Though Bacon did not arm his philosophy with the weapons of logic, he adorned her profusely
with all the richest decorations of rhetoric.

The practical faculty was powerful in Bacon; but not, like his wit, so powerful as occasionally
to usurp the place of his reason and to tyrannize over the whole man.

There are too many places in the Plays where this happens. Poor old dying John of Gaunt volleying
second-rate puns at his own name, is a pathetic instance of it. "We may assume" that it is
Bacon's fault, but the Stratford Shakespeare has to bear the blame.

No imagination was ever at once so strong and so thoroughly subjugated. It stopped at the first
check from good sense.

Bacon's greatest performance is the first book of the NOVUM ORGANUM... .

He had a wonderful talent for packing thought close and rendering it portable.

His eloquence would alone have entitled him to a high rank in literature.

It is evident that he had each and every one of the mental gifts and
each and every one of the acquirements that are so prodigally displayed
in the Plays and Poems, and in much higher and richer degree than any
other man of his time or of any previous time. He was a genius without a
mate, a prodigy not matable. There was only one of him; the planet
could not produce two of him at one birth, nor in one age. He could have
written anything that is in the Plays and Poems.  We are such stuff
     As dreams are made of, and our little life
     Is rounded with a sleep.

When a person reads the noble verses about the cloud-cap'd towers, he ought not to follow it
immediately with Good friend for Iesus sake forbeare, because he will find the transition from
great poetry to poor prose too violent for comfort. It will give him a shock. You never notice
how commonplace and unpoetic gravel is until you bite into a layer of it in a pie.

XI

Am I trying to convince anybody that Shakespeare did not write Shakespeare's Works? Ah, now,
what do you take me for? Would I be so soft as that, after having known the human race familiarly
for nearly seventy-four years? It would grieve me to know that any one could think so injuriously
of me, so uncomplimentarily, so unadmiringly of me. No, no, I am aware that when even the brightest
mind in our world has been trained up from childhood in a superstition of any kind, it will
never be possible for that mind, in its maturity, to examine sincerely, dispassionately, and
conscientiously any evidence or any circumstance which shall seem to cast a doubt upon the
validity of that superstition. I doubt if I could do it myself. We always get at second hand
our notions about systems of government; and high tariff and low tariff; and prohibition and
anti-prohibition; and the holiness of peace and the glories of war; and codes of honor and
codes of morals; and approval of the duel and disapproval of it; and our beliefs concerning
the nature of cats; and our ideas as to whether the murder of helpless wild animals is base
or is heroic; and our preferences in the matter of religious and political parties; and our
acceptance or rejection of the Shakespeares and the Author Ortons and the Mrs. Eddys. We get
them all at second hand, we reason none of them out for ourselves. It is the way we are made.
It is the way we are all made, and we can't help it, we can't change it. And whenever we have
been furnished a fetish, and have been taught to believe in it, and love it and worship it,
and refrain from examining it, there is no evidence, howsoever clear and strong, that can persuade
us to withdraw from it our loyalty and our devotion. In morals, conduct, and beliefs we take
the color of our environment and associations, and it is a color that can safely be warranted
to wash. Whenever we have been furnished with a tar baby ostensibly stuffed with jewels, and
warned that it will be dishonorable and irreverent to disembowel it and test the jewels, we
keep our sacrilegious hands off it. We submit, not reluctantly, but rather gladly, for we are
privately afraid we should find, upon examination that the jewels are of the sort that are
manufactured at North Adams, Mass.

I haven't any idea that Shakespeare will have to vacate his pedestal this side of the year
2209. Disbelief in him cannot come swiftly, disbelief in a healthy and deeply-loved tar baby
has never been known to disintegrate swiftly; it is a very slow process.

We are The Reasoning Race. We can't prove it by the above examples, and we can't prove it by
the miraculous "histories" built by those Stratfordolaters out of a hatful of rags and a barrel
of sawdust, but there is a plenty of other things we can prove it by, if I could think of them.
We are The Reasoning Race, and when we find a vague file of chipmunk-tracks stringing through
the dust of Stratford village, we know by our reasoning bowers that Hercules has been along
there. I feel that our fetish is safe for three centuries yet. The bust, too--there in the
Stratford Church. The precious bust, the priceless bust, the calm bust, the serene bust, the
emotionless bust, with the dandy mustache, and the putty face, unseamed of care--that face
which has looked passionlessly down upon the awed pilgrim for a hundred and fifty years and
will still look down upon the awed pilgrim three hundred more, with the deep, deep, deep, subtle,
subtle, subtle expression of a bladder.

XII

Irreverence

One of the most trying defects which I find in these--these--what shall I call them? for I
will not apply injurious epithets to them, the way they do to us, such violations of courtesy
being repugnant to my nature and my dignity. The farthest I can go in that direction is to
call them by names of limited reverence--names merely descriptive, never unkind, never offensive,
never tainted by harsh feeling. If THEY would do like this, they would feel better in their
hearts. Very well, then--to proceed. One of the most trying defects which I find in these Stratfordolaters,
these Shakesperiods, these thugs, these bangalores, these troglodytes, these herumfrodites,
these blatherskites, these buccaneers, these bandoleers, is their spirit of irreverence. It
is detectable in every utterance of theirs when they are talking about us. I am thankful that
in me there is nothing of that spirit. When a thing is sacred to me it is impossible for me
to be irreverent toward it. I cannot call to mind a single instance where I have ever been
irreverent, except towards the things which were sacred to other people. Am I in the right?
I think so. But I ask no one to take my unsupported word; no, look at the dictionary; let the
dictionary decide. Here is the definition:

IRREVERENCE. The quality or condition of irreverence toward God and sacred things.

What does the Hindu say? He says it is correct. He says irreverence is lack of respect for
Vishnu, and Brahma, and Chrishna, and his other gods, and for his sacred cattle, and for his
temples and the things within them. He endorses the definition, you see; and there are 300,000,000
Hindus or their equivalents back of him.

The dictionary had the acute idea that by using the capital G it could restrict irreverence
to lack of reverence for OUR Deity and our sacred things, but that ingenious and rather sly
idea miscarried: for by the simple process of spelling HIS deities with capitals the Hindu
confiscates the definition and restricts it to his own sects, thus making it clearly compulsory
upon us to revere HIS gods and HIS sacred things, and nobody's else. We can't say a word, for
he had our own dictionary at his back, and its decision is final.

This law, reduced to its simplest terms, is this: 1. Whatever is sacred to the Christian must
be held in reverence by everybody else; 2. whatever is sacred to the Hindu must be held in
reverence by everybody else; 3. therefore, by consequence, logically, and indisputably, whatever
is sacred to ME must be held in reverence by everybody else.

Now then, what aggravates me is that these troglodytes and muscovites and bandoleers and buccaneers
are ALSO trying to crowd in and share the benefit of the law, and compel everybody to revere
their Shakespeare and hold him sacred. We can't have that: there's enough of us already. If
you go on widening and spreading and inflating the privilege, it will presently come to be
conceded that each man's sacred things are the ONLY ones, and the rest of the human race will
have to be humbly reverent toward them or suffer for it. That can surely happen, and when it
happens, the word Irreverence will be regarded as the most meaningless, and foolish, and self-conceited,
and insolent, and impudent, and dictatorial word in the language. And people will say, "Whose
business is it what gods I worship and what things hold sacred? Who has the right to dictate
to my conscience, and where did he get that right?"

We cannot afford to let that calamity come upon us. We must save the word from this destruction.
There is but one way to do it, and that is to stop the spread of the privilege and strictly
confine it to its present limits--that is, to all the Christian sects, to all the Hindu sects,
and me. We do not need any more, the stock is watered enough, just as it is.

It would be better if the privilege were limited to me alone. I think so because I am the only
sect that knows how to employ it gently, kindly, charitably, dispassionately. The other sects
lack the quality of self-restraint. The Catholic Church says the most irreverent things about
matters which are sacred to the Protestants, and the Protestant Church retorts in kind about
the confessional and other matters which Catholics hold sacred; then both of these irreverencers
turn upon Thomas Paine and charge HIM with irreverence. This is all unfortunate, because it
makes it difficult for students equipped with only a low grade of mentality to find out what
Irreverence really IS.

It will surely be much better all around if the privilege of regulating the irreverent and
keeping them in order shall eventually be withdrawn from all the sects but me. Then there will
be no more quarreling, no more bandying of disrespectful epithets, no more heartburnings.

There will then be nothing sacred involved in this Bacon-Shakespeare controversy except what
is sacred to me. That will simplify the whole matter, and trouble will cease. There will be
irreverence no longer, because I will not allow it. The first time those criminals charge me
with irreverence for calling their Stratford myth an Arthur-Orton-Mary-Baker-Thompson-Eddy-Louis-the-Seventeenth-Veiled-Prophet
-of-Khorassan will be the last. Taught by the methods found effective in extinguishing earlier
offenders by the Inquisition, of holy memory, I shall know how to quiet them.

XIII

