It took another month to find out exactly how the stuff affected the human nervous system,
and they almost wrecked their own nervous systems in the process. The real villain, they discovered,
was the incredible-looking long-chain compound alluded to in the original notes as Ingredient
Beta; its principal physiological effect was to greatly increase the sensitivity of the aural
nerves. Not only was the hearing range widened--after consuming thirty CC of Beta, they could
hear the sound of an ultrasonic dog-whistle quite plainly--but the very quality of all audible
sounds was curiously enhanced and altered. Myers, the psychologist, who was also well grounded
in neurology, explained how the chemical produced this effect; it meant about as much to Benson
as some of his chemistry did to Bill Myers. There was also a secondary, purely psychological,
effect. Certain musical chords had definite effects on the emotions of the hearer, and the
subject, beside being directly influenced by the music, was rendered extremely open to verbal
suggestions accompanied by a suitable musical background.

Benson transferred the final results of this stage of the research to the black notebook and
burned the scratch-sheets.

"That's how it happened, then," he said. "The Munich thing was the result of all that Götterdämmerung
music. There was a band at the baseball park in Baltimore. The New Orleans Orgy started while
a local radio station was broadcasting some of this new dance-music. Look, these tone-clusters,
here, have a definite sex-excitation effect. This series of six chords, which occur in some
of the Wagnerian stuff; effect, a combined feeling of godlike isolation and despair. And these
consecutive fifths--a sense of danger, anger, combativeness. You know, we could work out a
whole range of emotional stimuli to fit the effects of Ingredient Beta...."

"We don't want to," Myers said. "We want to work out a substitute for Beta that will keep the
flavor of the drink without the psycho-physiological effects."

"Yes, sure. I have some of the boys at the plant lab working on that. Gave them a lot of syrup
without Beta, and told them to work out cheap additives to restore the regular Evri-Flave taste;
told them it was an effort to find a cheap substitute for an expensive ingredient. But look,
Bill. You and I both see, for instance, that a powerful world-wide supra-national sovereignty
is the only guarantee of world peace. If we could use something like this to help overcome
antiquated verbal prejudices and nationalistic emotional attachments...."

"No!" Myers said. "I won't ever consent to anything like that, Fred! Not even in a cause like
world peace; use a thing like this for a good, almost holy, cause now, and tomorrow we, or
those who would come after us, would be using it to create a tyranny. You know what year this
is, Bill?"

"Why, 1984," Benson said.

"Yes. You remember that old political novel of Orwell's, written about forty years ago? Well,
that's a picture of the kind of world you'd have, eventually, no matter what kind of a world
you started out to make. Fred, don't ever think of using this stuff for a purpose like that.
If you try it, I'll fight you with every resource I have."

There was a fanatical, almost murderous, look in Bill Myers' eyes. Benson put the notebook
in his pocket, then laughed and threw up his hands.

"Hey, Joe! Hey, Joe!" he cried. "You're right, of course, Bill. We can't even trust the UN
with a thing like this. It makes the H-bomb look like a stone hatchet.... Well, I'll call Grant,
at the plant lab, and see how his boys are coming along with the substitute; as soon as we
get it, we can put out a confidential letter to all our distributors and syrup-manufacturers...."

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked alone in the garden at Carondelet, watching the color fade out of the sky and the
twilight seep in among the clipped yews. All the world could be like this garden, a place of
peace and beauty and quiet, if only.... All the world would be a beautiful and peaceful garden,
in his own lifetime! He had the means of making it so!

Three weeks later, he murdered his friend and partner, Bill Myers. It was a suicide; nobody
but Fred Benson knew that he had taken fifty CC of pure Ingredient Beta in a couple of cocktails
while listening to the queer phonograph record that he had played half an hour before blowing
his brains out.

The decision had cost Benson a battle with his conscience from which he had emerged the sole
survivor. The conscience was buried along with Bill Myers, and all that remained was a purpose.

Evri-Flave stayed on the market unaltered. The night before the national election, the World
Sovereignty party distributed thousands of gallons of Evri-Flave; their speakers, on every
radio and television network, were backgrounded by soft music. The next day, when the vote
was counted, it was found that the American Nationalists had carried a few backwoods precincts
in the Rockies and the Southern Appalachians and one county in Alaska, where there had been
no distribution of Evri-Flave.

The dreams came back more often, now that Bill Myers was gone. Benson was only beginning to
realize what a large fact in his life the companionship of the young psychologist had been.
Well, a world of peace and beauty was an omelet worth the breaking of many eggs....

He purchased another great tract of land near the city, and donated it to the UN for their
new headquarters buildings; the same architects and landscapists who had created the estate
at Carondelet were put to work on it. In the middle of what was to become World City, they
erected a small home for Fred Benson. Benson was often invited to address the delegates to
the UN; always, there was soft piped-in music behind his words. He saw to it that Evri-Flave
was available free to all UN personnel. The Senate of the United States elected him as perpetual
U. S. delegate-in-chief to the UN; not long after, the Security Council elected him their perpetual
chairman.

In keeping with his new dignities, and to ameliorate his youthful appearance, he grew a mustache
and, eventually, a small beard. The black notebook in which he kept the records of his experiments
was always with him; page after page was filled with notes. Experiments in sonics, like the
one which had produced the ultrasonic stun-gun which rendered lethal weapons unnecessary for
police and defense purposes, or the new musical combinations with which he was able to play
upon every emotion and instinct.

But he still dreamed, the same recurring dream of the young soldier and the old man in the
office. By now, he was consistently identifying himself with the latter. He took to carrying
one of the thick-barrelled stun-pistols always, now. Alone, he practiced constantly with it,
drawing, breaking soap-bubbles with the concentrated sound-waves it projected. It was silly,
perhaps, but it helped him in his dreams. Now, the old man with whom he identified himself
would draw a stun-pistol, occasionally, to defend himself.

The years drained one by one through the hour-glass of Time. Year after year, the world grew
more peaceful, more beautiful. There were no more incidents like the mass-suicide of Munich
or the mass-perversions of New Orleans; the playing and even the composing of music was strictly
controlled--no dangerous notes or chords could be played in a world drenched with Ingredient
Beta. Steadily the idea grew that peace and beauty were supremely good, that violence and ugliness
were supremely evil. Even competitive sports which simulated violence; even children born ugly
and misshapen....

       *       *       *       *       *

