PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 153

DECEMBER 12, 1917

CHARIVARIA.

A "Company for Oversea Enterprises" has been formed in Hamburg. It has no connection with the
German High Sea Fleet.

       ***

A guinea a dozen is being offered for rabbits in the Isle of Wight. Most of them, however,
are holding back for a War bonus.

       ***

A Newcastle man who has been missing for eleven months has just turned up at his home. He excused
himself on the grounds that the tea queue was rather a long one.

       ***

There are reports current of an impending strike of brewery workers in the North. Several employees
have threatened to "Down Beer."

       ***

Confirmation is still awaited of the rumour that several food ships have recently torpedoed
themselves rather than fall into the hands of the profiteers.

       ***

The statement that Viscount NORTHCLIFFE has refused the post of Minister of Health is without
foundation. It is no secret, however, that he would decline the position even if he should
offer it to himself.

       ***

Double-headed matches are impracticable, according to the Tobacco and Matches Control Board.
The sorts with detachable heads, however, will continue to be manufactured.

       ***

A Norfolk fisherman with twenty-six children has been fined five shillings for neglecting seven
of them. His offence is thought to have been due to oversight.

       ***

According to the Lord Mayor of DUBLIN there is plenty of food in Ireland. In the best Sinn
Fein circles it is thought that this condition of things points to an attempt on the part of
the Government to bring discredit on the sacrificial devotion of the Separatists.

       ***

So realistic has the stage become of late that in The Boy at the Adelphi, Mr. W.H. BERRY (we
give the rumour for what it is worth) sits down to a meal of wood cutlets.

       ***

In order that no confusion may be caused among guests the Government has been requested to
have a "take over" whistle blown in the corridors before they commandeer the next hotel.

       ***

It seems that TROTZKY is to have no nonsense. He has even threatened to make lynching illegal.

       ***

The Neue Freie Presse describes LENIN as the revolutionary with kings at his feet. He also
seems to have several knaves up his sleeve.

       ***

A Brixton lady has left the sum of four hundred pounds to her dog. It would be interesting
to hear the family solicitor asking him whether he would take it in War Bonds or bones.

       ***

The Timber Commission reports a grave shortage of birch, and a number of earnest ushers are
asking, "What is the use of the censorship?"

       ***

It is now declared that the high explosive found on Countess MARKIEVICZ'S "green scouts" was
not intended for destructive purposes. Mr. DE VALERA, M.P., was merely going to eat it.

       ***

Many grocers and publicans, it is stated, have already been combed out of the Welsh coal mines.
Efforts to comb the others out of their gold mines are meeting with only indifferent success.

       ***

The London Fire Brigade has been given permission to form a band. The lack of some method of
keeping the crowd amused at the more protracted fires has often proved an embarrassment to
the force.

       ***

The big elephant at the Zoo has been destroyed, says a news item. A maximum price for potted
game is already being considered by the Food Ministry.

       ***

Charged with selling bacon that was bad, a firm of grocers pleaded that the stuff had been
released by the Government. At first sight it looked as if it had merely escaped from custody.

       ***

The man who was last week charged at a London police court with posing as a Government official
has been put back for the state of his mind to be inquired into.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The late Mr. Merryweather, who was in his 78th year,
    was responsible for great developments in fire-lighting
    appliances."--Scotsman.

A good scheme--light it first and fight it afterwards.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Supposing a wolf were to attack you and your family, what
    would you do?--Mr. Hedderwick.

    "I would point out that season tickets are issued by
    railway companies only as an act of grace.--Sir William
    Forbes."--The Star.

Our contemporary heads this "Words Winged To-day."

       *       *       *       *       *

From "A Word to the Churches," by Miss MARIE CORELLI:--

    "'A word' of solemn warning was uttered by the Angel of
    the Seven Spirits to the Church in Sardis....

    "And this 'word' was fulfilled to the letter, for, as Herodotus
    tells us, 'Sardis was taken and utterly sacked.'"--Daily
    Graphic.

We fancy the passage must occur in Book X., in which we also find the famous account of the
capture of Timbuctoo by the Roman Emperor Montezuma in the fourth Punic War--or was it the
fifth Crusade?

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE GERMAN PEOPLE.

  Each to his taste: if you prefer
    The KAISER'S whip across your flanks;
  If you enjoy the bloody spur
    That rips your cannon-fodder's ranks;
  If to his boots you still adhere,
    Kissing 'em as you've always kissed 'em,
  Why, who are we to interfere
    With your internal Teuton system?

  If from your bonds you know quite well
    You might, this moment, find release,
  Changing, at will, your present hell
    For Liberty's heaven of lasting peace;
  If yet, for habit's sake, you choose
    This reign of steel, this rule of terror,
  It's not for us to push our views
    And point you out your silly error.

  Herein I speak as I am taught--
    That your affairs are yours alone,
  Though, for myself, I should have thought
    They had a bearing on my own;
  Have I no right to interpose,
    Urging on you a free autonomy,
  Just as your U-boats shove their nose
    In my interior economy?

  I'm told we have no quarrel, none,
    With you as Germans. That's absurd.
  Myself, I hate all sorts of Hun,
    Yet will I say one kindly word:
  If, still refusing Freedom's part,
    You keep the old Potsdam connection,
  With all my sympathetic heart
    I wish you joy of that selection.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ORDER OF THE DAY.

In my opinion the value of the stock letter has distinct limitations. What I mean to say is
that if there is in a Government office a series of half a dozen standard epistles, one or
other of which can be used as a reply to the majority of the conundrums that daily serve to
bulge the post-bag of the "controller" or "director," the selection of the appropriate missive
should not be left purely to chance.

Last month I wrote to the Methylated Spirit Controller:--

    "DEAR SIR,--Referring to the recent Methylated Spirit (Motor Fuel)
    Restriction Order, No. 2, 1917, I wish to know whether I am at
    liberty to use my car as a means of conveyance to a farm about ten
    miles away where the rabbits are eating the young blades of wheat.
    A friend has invited me to help him shoot them--the rabbits, I
    mean."

Well, that was lucid enough, wasn't it? But the reply was not so helpful as I could have wished.
It opened intelligibly with the words "Dear Sir," but continued:--

    "I am directed by the Methylated Spirit Controller to inform you
    that the employment of a hackney motor vehicle, not licensed to
    ply for hire, as a conveyance to divine service constitutes
    a breach of Regulation 8 ZZ of the Defence of the Realm
    Regulations."

Not a word about the rabbits, you see.

I was so fascinated by the unexpected results of my first effort that
I tried again, this time breaking new ground. The only alternative form of conveyance
    available is a donkey and cart, the employment of which means
    that my offspring would have to start overnight."

I received a quite polite but rather chilly answer:--

    "I am directed by the Methylated Spirit Controller to inform you
    that the class of necessary household affairs for which methylated
    spirit may be employed as a motor fuel comprises the conveyance
    from the nearest convenient source of supply of foodstuffs, fuel
    and medical requisites, provided that they cannot be obtained
    without undue delay by any means of conveyance other than a motor
    car."

My interest thoroughly stimulated by this time, I made yet one more attempt.

This was evidently a shrewd thrust, which required consideration, and I heard nothing for a
fortnight, during which I disposed of the car to the proprietor of the local garage. At last
the well-known O.H.M.S. envelope gladdened my eyes. The letter within it, apologetic but dignified
in tone, is, I fancy, the most popular in stock. It said:--

    "I am directed by the Methylated Spirit Controller to express
    regret that there is no trace of the correspondence to which you
    refer."

I left it at that.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGAR CARDS AND WILLS.

TO THE MANAGER OF THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT, "PUNCH."

Sir,--I am one of the executors and trustees of the will of a relation who cannot, I fear,
live for many weeks. Included in his property will be a sugar card; and to you, Sir, I turn
for advice and guidance in the responsibilities which I am shortly to assume.

1. Will the Government accept a sugar card (as they do War Stock) in payment of Estate Duty?

2. What is the correct method of valuation? Does one calculate the market price by so many
years' purchase based on one's estimate of the duration? Or will quotations be obtainable on
the Stock Exchange?

3. My relative has left it in the discretion of his Trustees to distribute a part of his estate
for charitable purposes. Could the Trustees, under their discretionary power, hand the card
to the Trafalgar Square authorities in reduction of the National Debt? Or ought they first
to obtain the consent of the residuary legatees?

4. There is a tenancy for life of part of the residue. If the card is comprised in such part,
and the tenant for life became bankrupt, would the card vest in his Trustee in Bankruptcy?
If so, what becomes of the remaindermen's rights? Perhaps the best plan would be to put on
a distringas with the deceased's grocer.

5. Have the Trustees power on their own initiative to lease the card for a term of years? Or
should the approval of the transaction by the Court, under the Settled Estates Act, be first
obtained?

6. With whom do the Executors register the Probate, so as to perfect their title? Lord RHONDDA,
Sir A. YAPP, or the grocer?

7. On the true construction of the Finance Acts, 1894-1916, do you consider that a sugar card
is "Free Personal Property," or "Settled Property," or "An Estate by itself," or "Property
in which the deceased's interest was less than an absolute interest." The card is apparently
"aggregable" with something or other for the purposes of duty. Would this be the testator's
furniture?

Yours, etc., A CONSTANT READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

 EAST AFRICA.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

LXVII.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--In the little village I'm thinking of it is a sight on no account to be missed
to see the same old British Tommy shopping by telepathy. He doesn't speak their language and
they don't speak his, and when the article required is not in the window or on the counter
to be indicated by the thumb, a deadlock would appear to be inevitable. Our Master Thomas,
however, never did realise what a deadlock is; he goes on till he gets what he wants. So you
see them in pairs, taking up a stolid position at the counter, obstinately stating and re-stating
their demands in a composite language of which the foreign element is almost negligible, until
the merchant or his wife gives in and produces the article required. I know one simple soldier
who managed to reconcile himself to the confirmed habit amongst the French people of addressing
each other in the French language, but could never understand their addressing horses and dogs
in such an unintelligible tongue. "If you want a dog to come 'ere, why not say 'Come 'ere!'
and 'ave done with it?" Men may learn strange lingoes to humour their fellow-men, but how can
any dog be expected to understand "Viens ici"? A little thing like that, however, is not going
to be allowed to stand between friends; already new words and phrases are being coined, mutually
acceptable to both parties.

The first sign I saw of our arrival in this country was a derelict mess-tin on a country station
platform; at the next station I saw a derelict rifle; at the next a whole derelict kit, and
lastly a complete-in-all-parts derelict soldier. He was surrounded by a small crowd of native
men, women and children, anxious to show their appreciation of his nation by assisting himself.
They were doing their utmost to ascertain his needs; they were trying him with slices of bread,
a fiasco of chianti, words of intense admiration, flowers. It was none of these things he wanted;
he had only missed his train and wanted to know what to do about it. But how were they to know
that? When a Latin misses his train he doesn't sit down stolidly and think slowly.

I went to his aid. From the manner in which he rose to salute me they guessed that I was the
Commander-in-Chief of all the English, and were for giving me an ovation. Thomas explained
his trouble to me in half-a-dozen words; I solved it for him in even fewer. Thomas and I quite
understood each other, and there was no want of sympathy and fellow-feeling between us. To
the small crowd, however, this was the extreme of brutal curtness. They now thought I was of
the English carabinieri, and that Thomas was being led off to his execution. They were visibly
cowed.

But the situation is not so simple and clearly defined as it was in the first place. In the
old days either we were English and they weren't, or they were French and we weren't. There
was no tertium quid. Now things are more complicated. As Thomas and I stood on the platform,
loving each other silently and unostentatiously, a cheery musical train of poilus laboured
into the station. There was nothing silent or curt about them: they were all for bread and
chianti and flowers and ovations or any other old thing the crowd cared to offer. Anything
for a jest and to pass the time of day. Between the French troops and the Italian crowd the
matter was clear enough. Next-door neighbours, molested by the same gang of roughs in the same
brutal manner, quite understand each other and the general situation when they climb over each
other's garden fences to put the matter to rights. It was the presence of Thomas and myself
which put such an odd complexion on the whole affair.

Between ourselves and the crowd it was "Long live Italy!" and "Long live England!" Between
the poilus and the crowd it was "Long live Italy!" and "Long live France!" But between the
poilus and ourselves there were no signs of any desire that England or France might endure
another day. And yet the crowd couldn't suppose that we didn't like each other, for the knowing
looks which passed between the hilarious poilu and slowly smiling Thomas clearly indicated
some strange and intimate relation. The crowd just didn't know what to make of it all and what
exactly was between these odd strangers, who seemed to have everything in common but nothing
to say to each other. For ourselves, I think it made us feel homesick, and the home which Thomas
and I felt sick for (if you can believe it of us) was a certain estaminet we know of and a
cup of caffy-o-lay. It was at this moment I first realised that, as between England and France,
there are no longer such things as foreigners; either we've become French or they've become
English, or else the two of us have combined into a new mixture which hasn't yet got a name to it.

I think, though one doesn't talk much out here about glorious alliances, some deep feelings
were being felt all round. Diversion was ultimately provided by the arrival of an imposing
figure in dark blue, with a lot of gilt about him. The poilu put him down as an Italian cavalry
officer, and expressed the further hope that Italy would endure for ever. The Italian crowd
took him for something English, but not being able to judge whether he was greater or less
than myself, contented themselves with an attitude of non-committal reverence all round. Thomas
informed me that he was a French Staff Officer and displayed no further interest.

Yours ever, HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LIGHT REPAST.

    "Under existing conditions, it is the duty of every citizen to
    confine his present consumption to an average of six matches
    a day, which with careful economy ought to suffice for all
    reasonable meals during the present emergency."--Daily Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At Leeds Assizes yesterday sentences were passed by Mr. Justice
    Boche ..."--Times.

Does not this almost amount to contempt of court?

       *       *       *       *       *

From a speech by the Lord Mayor of DUBLIN:--

    "That would he a crying evil, to leave the poor people in the city
    without milk. It would be a wise thing if the Corporation would
    take the bull by the horns and deal with the matter."--Dublin
    Evening Mail.

It might be still wiser to tackle the cow at the udder end.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INCORRUPTIBLES.

    [Herr SCHÄFF, writing in the Tägliche Rundschau on the spiritual
    grandeur of Germany, declares that the degradation of her enemies
    will not prevent her doing honour to those dauntless men who in
    enemy and neutral countries have stood for truth and actualities.
    "The time will come when we shall mention their names and call
    them our friends. After the War we shall do homage to these men
    and to their incorruptible conduct. We shall erect monumental
    brasses in their honour. They are heroes, and their memories shall
    be consecrated."]

  A literary spokesman of the Huns
  Pays liberal homage to those "dauntless" sons
  Of hostile nations, who have all along
  Maintained their fellow-countrymen were wrong.
  No guerdon for their courage is too great,
  But, till the War is ended, they must wait;
  Then shall Germania, with grateful soul,
  Inscribe their names upon her golden roll;
  And "monumental brasses" shall attest
  The zeal wherewith they strove to foul their nest.

  Such homage no one grudges them in lands
  Where eulogy for deep damnation stands;
  But in the Motherland they still infest
  How shall we treat this matricidal pest?
  No torture, not the worst their patrons use
  On starving women or on shipwrecked crews,
  No pain however bitter would requite
  Their transcendental infamy aright.

  Death in whatever form were all too mild
  For those who at their country's anguish smiled.
  Oblivion is by far the bitterest woe
  England's professional revilers know,
  Who joyously submit to be abhorred
  But suffer grinding torments if ignored.
  So let them live, renounced by their own sons,
  And taste the amnesty that spares and shuns.

       *       *       *       *       *

