"Ah, little star, little star!" said the child, laughing aloud, "I knew you were there, though
I could not see you. Will you whisper to the Christmas angels as they come by that little Gretchen
wants so very much to have a Christmas gift tomorrow morning, if they have one to spare, and
that she has put one of Granny's shoes upon the windowsill for it?"

A moment more and the little girl, standing on tiptoe had reached the windowsill and placed
the shoe upon it, and was back again in the house beside Granny and the warm fire.

The two went quietly to bed, and that night as little Gretchen knelt to pray to the Heavenly
Father, she thanked him for having sent the Christ-Child into the world to teach all mankind
to be loving and unselfish, and in a few minutes she was sleeping, dreaming of the Christmas
angels.

The next morning, very early, even before the sun was up, little Gretchen was awakened by the
sound of sweet music coming from the village. She listened for a moment and then she knew that
the choir boys were singing the Christmas carols in the open air of the village street. She
sprang up out of bed and began to dress herself as quickly as possible, singing as she dressed.
While Granny was slowly putting on her clothes, little Gretchen having finished dressing herself,
unfastened the door and hurried out to see what the Christmas angels had left in the old wooden
shoe.

The white snow covered everything--trees, stumps, roads, and pastures--until the whole world
looked like fairy land. Gretchen climbed up on a large stone which was beneath the window and
carefully lifted down the wooden shoe. The snow tumbled off of it in a shower over the little
girl's hands, but she did not heed that; she ran hurriedly back into the house, putting her
hand into the toe of the shoe as she ran.

"Oh, Granny, Granny!" she exclaimed; "you did not believe the Christmas angels would think
about us, but see, they have, they have! Here is a dear little bird nestled down in the toe
of your shoe! Oh, isn't he beautiful?"

Granny came forward and looked at what the child was holding lovingly in her hand. There she
saw a tiny chick-a-dee, whose wing was evidently broken by the rough and boisterous winds of
the night before, and who had taken shelter in the safe, dry toe of the old wooden shoe. She
gently took the little bird out of Gretchen's hands, and skilfully bound his broken wing to
his side, so that he need not hurt himself trying to fly with it. Then she showed Gretchen
how to make a nice warm nest for the little stranger, close beside the fire and when their
breakfast was ready, she let Gretchen feed the little bird with a few moist crumbs.

Later in the day Gretchen carried the fresh, green boughs to the old sick man by the mill,
and on her way home stopped to enjoy the Christmas toys of some other children that she knew,
never once wishing they were hers. When she reached home she found that the little bird had
gone to sleep. Soon, however, he opened his eyes and stretched his head up, saying just as
plain as a bird can say:

"Now, my new friends, I want you to give me something more to eat." Gretchen gladly fed him
again, and then, holding him in her lap, she softly and gently stroked his gray feathers until
the little creature seemed to lose all fear of her. That evening Granny taught her a Christmas
hymn and told her another beautiful Christmas story. Then Gretchen made up a funny little story
to tell the birdie. He winked his eyes and turned his head from side to side in such a droll
fashion that Gretchen laughed until the tears came.

As Granny and she got ready for bed that night, Gretchen put her arms softly around Granny's
neck, and whispered: "What a beautiful Christmas we have had today, Granny. Is there anything
more lovely in all the world than Christmas?"

"Nay, child, nay," said Granny, "not to such loving hearts as yours."

[*] Reprinted by permission of the author from her collection, "Christmastide." Published by
the Chicago Kindergarten College.

THE LITTLE SHEPHERD[*]

By Maud Lindsay

The shepherd was sick and the shepherd's wife looked out from her door with anxious eyes. "Who
will carry the sheep to the pasture lands today?" she said to her little boy Jean.

"I will," cried Jean, "I will. Mother, let me."

Jean and his father and mother lived long ago in a sunny land across the sea, where flowers
bloom, and birds sing, and shepherds feed their flocks in the green valleys. Every morning,
as soon as it was light, Jean's father was up and away with his sheep. He had never missed
a morning before, and the sheep were bleating in the fold as if to say, "Don't forget us today."

The sheep were Jean's playfellows. There was nothing he liked better than to wander with them
in the pleasant pastures, and already they knew his voice and followed at his call.

"Let the lad go," said his old grandfather. "When I was no older than he I watched my father's
flock."

Jean's father said the same thing, so the mother made haste to get the little boy ready.

"Eat your dinner when the shadows lie straight across the grass," she said as she kissed him
good-bye.

"And keep the sheep from the forest paths," called his sick father.

"And watch, for it is when the shepherd is not watching that the wolf comes to the flock,"
said the old grandfather.

"Never fear," said little Jean. "The wolf shall not have any of my white lambs."

They were white sheep and black sheep and frolicsome lambs in the shepherd's flock, and each
one had a name of its own. There was Babbette, and Nannette, and Pierrot, and Jeannot,--I cannot
tell them all, but Jean knew every name.

"Come, Bettine and Marie. Come, Pierrot and Croisette. Come, pretty ones all," he called as
he led them from the fold that day. "I will carry you to the meadows where the daisies grow."

"Baa," answered the sheep, well satisfied, as they followed him down the king's highway, and
over the hill to the pasture lands.

The other shepherds were already there with their flocks, so Jean was not lonely. He watered
his sheep at the dancing brook that ran through the flowers, and led them along its shady banks
to feed in the sunny fields beyond, and not one lambkin strayed from his care to the forest paths.

The forest lay dim and shadowy on one side of the pasture lands. The deer lived there, and
the boars that fed upon acorns, and many other creatures that loved the wild woods. There had
been wolves in the forest, but the king's knights had driven them away and the shepherds feared
them no longer. Only the old men like Jean's grandfather, and the little boys like Jean, talked
of them still.

Jean was not afraid. Oh, no. There was not a lamb in the flock so merry and fearless as he.
He sang with the birds and ran with the brook, and laughed till the echoes laughed with him
as he watched the sheep from early morn to noon, when the shadows fell straight across the
grass and it was time for him to eat his dinner.

There were little cakes in Jean's dinner basket. He had seen his mother put them there, but
he had not tasted a single one when, out on the king's highway, beyond the hill, he heard the
sound of pipes and drums, and the tramp, tramp of many feet.

The other shepherds heard too, and they began to listen and to stare and to run. "The king
and his knights are coming," they cried. "Come let us see them as they pass by."

"Who will take care of the sheep?" asked Jean, but nobody answered, so he too left his dinner
and ran with the rest, away from the pastures and up the hillside path that led to the highway.

"How pleased my mother will be when I tell her that I have seen the king," he said to himself,
and he was hurrying over the hill top when all at once he remembered the forest, and the wolf,
and his grandfather's words.

"Come on," called the others.

"I must stay with the sheep," answered he; and he turned and went back, though the pipes and
the drums all seemed to say, "Come this way, come this way." He could scarcely keep from crying
as he listened.

There was nothing in sight to harm the sheep, and the pasture lands were quiet and peaceful,
but into the forest that very day a hungry gray wolf had come. His eyes were bright and his
ears were sharp and his four feet were as soft as velvet, as he came creeping, creeping, creeping
under the houses and through the tanglewood. He put his nose out and sniffed the air, and he
put his head out and spied the sheep left alone in the meadows. "Now's my chance," he said,
and out he sprang just as little Jean down the hill.

"Wolf, wolf, wolf!" shouted Jean. "Wolf, wolf, wolf!" He was only a little boy, but he was
brave and his voice rang clear as a bugle call over the valley, and over the hill, "Wolf, wolf,
wolf!"

The shepherds and knights and the king himself came running and riding to answer his cry, and
as for the gray wolf, he did not even stop to look behind him as he sped away to the forest
shades. He ran so fast and he ran so far that he was never seen in the king's country again,
though the shepherds in the pastures watched for him day after day.

Jean led his flock home at eventide, white sheep and black sheep and frolicsome lambs, not
one was missing.

"Was the day long?" asked his mother, who was watching in the doorway for him.

"Are the sheep all in?" called the sick father.

"Did the wolf come?" said the old grandfather; but there is no need for me to tell you what
Jean said. You can imagine that for yourself.

[*] From "More Mother Stories," by Maud Lindsay. Used by permission of the author and the publishers--the
Milton Bradley Company.

BABOUSCKA[*]

Russian Legend

It was the night the dear Christ Child came to Bethlehem. In a country far away from Him, an
old, old woman named Babouscka sat in her snug little house by her warm fire. The wind was
drifting the snow outside and howling down the chimney, but it only made Babouscka's fire burn
more brightly.

"How glad I am that I may stay indoors!" said Babouscka, holding her hands out to the bright
blaze. But suddenly she heard a loud rap at her door. She opened it and her candle shone on
three old men standing outside in the snow. Their beards were as white as the snow, and so
long that they reached the ground. Their eyes shone kindly in the light of Babouscka's candle,
and their arms were full of precious things--boxes of jewels, and sweet-smelling oils, and
ointments.

"We have traveled far, Babouscka," said they, "and we stop to tell you of the Baby Prince born
this night in Bethlehem. He comes to rule the world and teach all men to be loving and true.
We carry Him gifts. Come with us, Babouscka!"

But Babouscka looked at the driving snow, and then inside at her cozy room and the crackling
fire. "It is too late for me to go with you, good sirs," she said, "the weather is too cold."
She went inside again and shut the door, and the old men journeyed on to Bethlehem without
her. But as Babouscka sat by her fire, rocking, she began to think about the little Christ
Child, for she loved all babies.

"Tomorrow I will go to find Him," she said; "tomorrow, when it is light, and I will carry Him
some toys."

So when it was morning Babouscka put on her long cloak, and took her staff, and filled a basket
with the pretty things a baby would like--gold balls, and wooden toys, and strings of silver
cobwebs--and she set out to find the Christ Child.

But, oh! Babouscka had forgotten to ask the three old men the road to Bethlehem, and they had
traveled so far through the night that she could not overtake them. Up and down the roads she
hurried, through woods and fields and towns, saying to whomsoever she met: "I go to find the
Christ Child. Where does he lie? I bring some pretty toys for His sake."

But no one could tell her the way to go, and they all said: "Farther on, Babouscka, farther
on." So she traveled on, and on, and on for years and years--but she never found the little
Christ Child.

They say that old Babouscka is traveling still, looking for Him. When it comes Christmas eve,
and the children are lying fast asleep, Babouscka comes softly through the snowy fields and
towns, wrapped in her long cloak and carrying her basket on her arm. With her staff she raps
gently at the doors and goes inside and holds her candle close to the little children's faces.

"Is He here?" she asks. "Is the little Christ Child here?" And then she turns sorrowfully away
again, crying: "Farther on, farther on." But before she leaves she takes a toy from her basket
and lays it beside the pillow for a Christmas gift. "For His sake," she says softly and then
hurries on through the years and forever in search of the little Christ Child.

THE BOY WITH THE BOX

By Mary Griggs Van Voorhis

It was an ideal Christmas day. The sun shone brightly but the air was crisp and cold, and snow
and ice lay sparkling everywhere. A light wind, the night before, had swept the blue, icebound
river clean of scattering snow; and, by two o'clock in the afternoon, the broad bend near Creighton's
mill was fairly alive with skaters. The girls in gay caps and scarfs, the boys in sweaters
and mackinaws of every conceivable hue, with here and there a plump, matronly figure in a plush
coat or a tiny fellow in scarlet, made a picture of life and brilliancy worthy of an artist's
finest skill.

Tom Reynolds moved in and out among the happy throng, with swift, easy strokes, his cap on
the back of his curly head, and his brown eyes shining with excitement. Now and again, he glanced
down with pardonable pride, at the brand new skates that twinkled beneath his feet. "Jolly
Ramblers," sure enough "Jolly Ramblers" they were! Ever since Ralph Evans had remarked, with
a tantalizing toss of his handsome head, that "no game fellow would try to skate on anything
but 'Jolly Ramblers,'" Tom had yearned, with an inexpressible longing, for a pair of these
wonderful skates. And now they were his and the ice was fine and the Christmas sun was shining!

Tom was rounding the big bend for the fiftieth time, when he saw, skimming gracefully toward
him through the merry crowd, a tall boy in a fur-trimmed coat, his handsome head proudly erect.

"That's Ralph Evans now," said Tom to himself. "Just wait till you see these skates, old boy,
and maybe you won't feel so smart!" And with slow, cautious strokes, he made his way through
laughing boys and girls to a place just in front of the tall skater, coming toward him down
the broad white way. When Ralph was almost upon him, Tom paused and in conspicuous silence,
looked down at his shining skates.

"Hullo," said Ralph good naturedly, seizing Tom's arm and swinging around. Then, taking in
the situation with a careless glance, he added, "Get a new pair of skates for Christmas?"

"'Jolly Ramblers,'" said Tom impressively, "the best 'Jolly Ramblers' in the market!"

Ralph was a full half head the taller, but, as Tom delivered himself of this speech with his
head held high, he felt every inch as tall as the boy before him.

If Ralph was deeply impressed he failed to show it, as he answered carelessly, "Huh, that so?
Pretty good little skates they are, the 'Jolly Ramblers!'"

"You said no game fellow would use any other make," said Tom hotly.

"O but that was nearly a year ago," said Ralph. "I got a new pair of skates for Christmas,
too," he added, as if it had just occurred to him, "'Club House' skates, something new in the
market just this season. Just look at the curve of that skate, will you?" he added, lifting
a foot for inspection, "and that clamp that you couldn't shake off if you had to! They're guaranteed
for a year, too, and if anything gives out, you get a new pair for nothing. Three and a half,
they cost, at Mr. Harrison's hardware store. I gave my 'Jolly Ramblers' to a kid about your
size. A mighty good little skate they are!" And, with a long, graceful stroke, Ralph Evans
skated away.

And it seemed to Tom Reynolds that all his Christmas joy went skimming away behind him. The
sun still shone, the ice still gleamed, the skaters laughed and sang, but Tom moved slowly
on, with listless, heavy strokes. The "Jolly Ramblers" still twinkled beneath his feet, but
he looked down at them no more. What was the use of "Jolly Ramblers" when Ralph Evans had a
pair of "Club House" skates that cost a dollar more, had a graceful curve, and a faultless
clamp, and were guaranteed for a year?

It was only four o'clock when Tom slipped his new skates carelessly over his shoulder and started
up the bank for home. He was slouching down the main street, head down, hands thrust deep into
his pockets, when, on turning a corner, he ran plump into--a full moon! Now I know it is rather
unusual for full moons to be walking about the streets by daylight; but that is the only adequate
description of the round, freckled face that beamed at Tom from behind a great box, held by
two sturdy arms.

"That came pretty near being a collision," said the owner of the full moon, still beaming,
as he set down the box and leaned against a building to rest a moment.

"Nobody hurt, I guess," said Tom.

"Been down to the ice?" asked the boy, eagerly. "I could see the skaters from Patton's store.
O, I see, you got some new skates for Christmas! Ain't they beauties, now?" And he beamed on
the despised "Jolly Ramblers" with his heart in his little blue eyes.

"A pretty good little pair of skates," said Tom, in Ralph's condescending tone.

"Good! Well I should guess yes! And Christmas ice just made o' purpose!" In spite of his ill
humor, Tom could not help responding to the warm interest of the shabby boy at his side. He
knew him to be Harvey McGinnis, the son of a poor Irish widow, who worked at Patton's department
store out of school hours. Looking at the great box with an awakening interest, he remarked,
kindly, "What you been doin' with yourself on Christmas day?"

"Want to know, sure enough?" said Harvey, mysteriously, his round face beaming more brightly
than ever, "Well, I've been doin' the Santy Claus act down at Patton's store.

"About a week ago," he went on, leaning back easily against the tall building and thrusting
his hands down deep into his well worn pockets, "about a week ago, as I was cleaning out the
storeroom, I came on three big boxes with broken dolls in 'em. Beauties they were, I kin tell
you, the Lady Jane in a blue silk dress, the Lady Clarabel in pink, and the Lady Matilda in
shimmerin' white. Nothin' wrong with 'em either only broken rubbers that put their jints out
o' whack and set their heads arollin' this way and that. 'They could be fixed in no time, I
ses to myself, 'and what a prize they'd be fer the kids to be sure!' For mom and me had racked
our brains considerable how we'd scrape together the money for Christmas things for the girls.

"So I went to the boss and I asked him right out what he'd charge me for the three ladies just
as they wus, and he ses, 'Jimmie,' he ses (I've told him me name a dozen times, but he allus
calls me 'Jimmie'), 'Jimmie,' he ses, 'if you'll come down on Christmas day and help me take
down the fixin's and fix up the store for regular trade, I'll give you the dolls fer nothin','
he ses.

"So I explained to the kids that Santy'd be late to our house this year (with so many to see
after it wouldn't be strange) and went down to the store early this morning and finished me
work and fixed up the ladies es good es new. Would you like to be seein' 'em, now?" he added,
turning to the great box with a look of pride.

"Sure, I'd like to see 'em," said Tom.

With careful, almost reverent touch, Harvey untied the string and opened the large box, disclosing
three smaller boxes, one above the other. Opening the first box, he revealed a really handsome
doll in a blue silk dress, with large dark eyes that opened and shut and dark, curling locks
of "real hair."

"This is the Lady Jane," he said, smoothing her gay frock with gentle fingers. "We're goin'
to give her to Kitty. Kitty's hair is pretty and curly, but she hates it, 'cause it's red;
and she thinks black hair is the prettiest kind in the world. Ain't it funny how all of us
will be wantin' what we don't have ourselves?"

Tom did not reply to this bit of philosophy; but he laid a repentant hand on the "Jolly Ramblers"
as if he knew he had wronged them in his heart. "That's as handsome a doll as ever I saw and
no mistake," he said.

Pleased with this praise, Harvey opened the second box and disclosed the Lady Matilda with
fair golden curls and a dress of "shimmerin' white." "The Lady Matilda goes to Josephine,"
said Harvey. "Josephine has black hair, straight as a string, and won't she laugh, though,
to see them fetchin' yellow curls?"

"She surely ought to be glad," said Tom.

The Lady Clarabel was another fair-haired lady in a gown of the brightest pink. "This here
beauty's for the baby," said Harvey, his eyes glowing. "She don't care if the hair's black
or yellow, but won't that stunnin' dress make her eyes pop out?"

"They'll surely believe in Santy when they see those beauties," said Tom.

"That's just what I was sayin' to mom this morning," said Harvey. "Kitty's had some doubts,
(she's almost nine), but when she sees those fine ladies she'll be dead sure mom and I didn't
buy 'em. If I had a Santy Claus suit, I'd dress up and hand 'em out myself."

Tom's face lighted with a bright idea. "My brother Bob's got a Santa Claus suit that he used
in a show last Christmas," he said. "Say, let me dress up and play Santa for you. The girls
would never guess who I was!"

"Wouldn't they stare, though!" said Harvey, delightedly. "But do you think you'd want to take
time," he asked apologetically, "and you with a new pair of skates and the ice like this?"

"Of course, I want to if you'll let me," said Tom. "I'll skate down the river and meet you
anywhere you say."

"Out in our back yard, then, at seven o'clock," said Harvey.

"All right, I'll be there!" and with head up, and skates clinking, Tom hurried away.

It was a flushed, excited boy who burst into the Reynolds' quiet sitting room a few minutes
later, with his skates still hanging on his shoulder and his cap in his hand. "Say, mother,"
he cried, "can I have Bob's Santa Claus suit this evening, please? I'm going to play Santa
Claus for Harvey McGinnis!"

"Play Santa Claus for Harvey McGinnis. What do you mean, child?"

"You know Mrs. McGinnis, mother, that poor woman who lives in the little house by the river.
Her husband got killed on the railroad last winter, you know. Well, Harvey, her boy, has fixed
up some grand looking dolls for his sisters and he wants me to come out and play Santa tonight,"
and Tom launched out into a long story about Harvey and his good fortune.

"He must be a splendid boy," said Mrs. Reynolds, heartily, "and I am sure I shall be glad to
have you go."

"And another thing, mother," said Tom, hesitating a little, "do you think grandma would care
if I spent part of that five dollars she gave me for a pair of skates for Harvey? He hasn't
any skates at all, and I know he'd just love to have some!"

"It is generous of you to think of it," said his mother, much pleased, "and you would still
have two and a half for that little trip down to grandma's."

"But I'd like to get him some 'Club House' skates," said Tom. "They're a new kind that cost
three dollars and a half."

"But I thought you said the 'Jolly Ramblers' were the best skates made?" Mrs. Reynolds looked
somewhat hurt as she glanced from Tom to the skates on his shoulder and back to Tom again.

"They are, mother, they're just dandies!" said Tom blushing with shame that he could ever have
despised his mother's gift. "But these 'Club House' skates are just the kind for Harvey. You
see, Harvey's shoes are old and worn, and these 'Club House' skates have clamps that you can't
shake loose if you have to. Then, if anything happens to them before the year's up, you get
a new pair free; and Harvey, you know, wouldn't have any money to be fixing skates."

"Well, do as you like," said Mrs. Reynolds, pleased with Tom's eagerness, for such a spell
of generosity was something new in her selfish younger son. "But remember, you will have to
wait a while for your visit to grandma."

"All right, and thank you, mother," said Tom. "You can buy the skates down at Harrison's and
I'm going over and ask Mr. Harrison if he won't open up the store and get a pair for me for
a special time like this. I'm most sure he will!" and away he flew.

That evening, at seven, as the moon was rising over the eastern hills, a short, portly Santa
Claus stepped out of the dry reeds by the river bank and walked with wonderfully nimble feet,
right into the McGinnis' little back yard. As he neared the small back porch, a dark figure
rose to greet him, one hand held up in warning, the other holding at arm's length, a bulky
grain sack, full to the brim.

"Here's yer pack, Santy," he whispered, gleefully. "They're all waitin' in the front room yonder.
I'll slip in the back way, whilst you go round and give a good thump at the front door and
mom'll let you in."

Trembling with eagerness, Tom tiptoed round the house, managing to slip an oblong package into
the capacious depths of the big sack as he did so. Thump, thump! how his knock reëchoed in
the frosty air! The door swung wide, and Mrs. McGinnis' gaunt figure stood before him.

"Good evenin', Santy, come right in," she said.

Tom had always thought what a homely woman Harvey's mother was when he happened to meet her
at the grocery, with her thin red hair drawn severely back from her gaunt face, and a black
shawl over her head. But as he looked up into her big, kind face, so full of Christmas sunshine,
he wondered he could ever have thought her anything but lovely. The room was small and bare,
but wonderfully gay with pine and bits of red and green crepe paper, saved from the 'fixins'
at the store. And on a large bed in the corner sat the three little girls, Kitty with her bright
curls bobbing, Josephine with her black braids sticking straight out, and the baby with tiny
blue eyes that twinkled and shone like Harvey's.

The fine speech that Tom had been saying over to himself for the past two hours seemed to vanish
into thin air before this excited little audience. But in faltering, stammering tones, which
everyone was too excited to notice, he managed to say something about "Merry Christmas" and
"good children" and then proceeded to open the magic sack. "Miss Kitty McGinnis!" he called,
in deep, gruff tones. Kitty took the box he offered with shy embarrassment, slowly drew back
the lid and gave a cry of amazement and delight. "A doll, O the loveliest doll that ever was!"
she cried. Then turning to her brother, she whispered as softly as excitement would permit,
"O Harvey, I'm afeard ye paid too much!"

"Aw, go on!" said Harvey, his face more like a full moon than ever. "Don't ye know that Santy
kin do whatever he wants to?"

