Coal tar dyes are used in the production of green and purple straws. These are purchased from
the Chinese stores. The prepared gray fiber is also employed with these dyes. The usual method
of boiling in a tin can until the desired shade is obtained, is followed. The straw is dried
in the sun and kept in the night air. Colors produced are not so uniform or so satisfactory
as the others described and are seldom used.

Weaving the mats.--Before weaving the mat the worker runs the straw over the ruler-like piece
of bamboo as already explained, and removes the uncut base to which it has been attached during
the various processes of preparation, bleaching, and dyeing. One side of the mat is first woven
the entire length, and is finished by having the edges turned in. This edge is then placed
in a slit made in a narrow stick of wood and is tied in place with strips of sabutan straw
running around the stick and through the mat. The mat is allowed to remain attached to this
stick until it has been completely woven. As weaving proceeds, the finished part is rolled
up on the stick, thus being out of the way of the weaver. This arrangement also serves to keep
the mat in position during weaving and prevents it from getting out of shape. Single straws
are used and consequently the mat has a right and a wrong side. [16] The most expensive mats,
which are seldom made, are double and of very fine material.

The extension and cultivation of sabutan.--For a number of years there has been an increasing
interest throughout the Philippines in the propagation of sabutan. Teachers in various places
have procured suckers from the towns along the east coast of Laguna de Bay, and have planted
them out with the idea of having their own industrial material close at hand. Many of these
attempts have been failures, since not enough information had been obtained concerning the
soil and moisture conditions necessary for the cultivation of the plant. The Bureau of Education
has therefore gathered as much information as possible on the cultivation of sabutan, based
upon the experience of various persons who have attempted planting it.

It has been found that, in those regions having a dry season, the suckers should be planted
early in the rainy season so that they may become well rooted before the rains stop, or else
water should be provided through irrigation ditches. In nearly all cases it has been reported
that the loss of plants resulted from lack of water at the planting period.

It is reported that difficulty is found in making the suckers live if planted in the sun, but
that, when well established, those so planted grow and produce suckers better. As has been
previously noted, no special attempt is made to set the plants out in either the sun or shade
in the towns around Laguna de Bay, but all weavers state that leaves grown in the shade are
the best for industrial purposes.

Sabutan plants need a moist but well drained soil. They should be set out about a meter apart
each way (that is, the rows one meter apart and plants one meter apart in the row), since they
spread out considerably when they become older. Where sufficient moisture does not exist, irrigation
should be provided. If it is decided to shade the suckers, plants such as the papaya, having
long roots rather than surface roots, are best. No sabutan plants should be planted within
6 feet of the papaya.

It is probable that with cultivation the plants will yield leaves suitable for straw in from
one and one-half to two years, the time to mature depending upon the conditions noted in the
preceding paragraphs. [17]

Sabutan types.--In several places in the Philippines there are pandans which yield leaves similar
to those of sabutan. It is probable that none of these are the true sabutan. The most important
one is that growing along the northeastern shore of Tayabas Province. Mats are made at both
Casiguran and Baler, and enter to a small extent, the interprovincial trade with neighboring
provinces. It is stated, however, that these regions abound in the species of pandan from which
the mats are made. Sabutan type mats are also reported made at Palanan in Isabela Province,
and a trade is carried on in them with neighboring towns.

Other pandans reported under the name of sabutan and resembling it more or less have no commercial
importance.

Sarakat.

Sarakat is a distinctive pandan of the Bangui Peninsula of Ilocos Norte. The climate of this
region differs from the rest of Ilocos Norte in that it has rainfall practically throughout
the year, receiving as it does the benefit of the northeast monsoon which is cut off from the
country to the south. It has not as yet been determined whether sarakat is to be described
as a new variety of P. tectorius or is to be designated as an entirely new species.

From mats submitted to this office, it is to be judged that sarakat straw is as fine as sabutan.
In fact, the material is so thin that even though the mats are woven of double straws they
are no thicker, and are a good deal more pliable than all other commercial pandan mats, sabutan
excepted, produced in the Philippines. The upper surface of pandan straw is glossy, and the
under surface is rough. In making the double straw, the two rough surfaces are placed together
so as to expose both glossy ones. Hence, unlike the sabutan, both sides of sarakat mats are
similar in appearance. The material, however, is not so strong as sabutan. [18]

The mats are not decorated either by weaving in colored straws or by embroidered or border
designs. In price they vary from about P1 to P2.

Mr. Petronilo Castro, formerly Supervising Teacher of Bangui, has stated that that town supplies
most of the mats used by the people of Ilocos Norte. Some buri mats and a few "pandan" mats
(probably from the common seashore variety) are made. The sarakat mats exceed those of pandan
in numbers and in commercial importance and are more beautiful and stronger. The demand for
the mats is great and many people are engaged exclusively in their fabrication.

The Pandan of Majayjay. [19]

This pandan (P. utilissimus) is known in most places where it grows as "pandan" or "pandan
totoo," the true or tame pandan. It is extensively used in Laguna and Tayabas and is remarkable
for its very large leaves and its heavy fruit. The tree occurs in groups in dry ground but
thrives best in half shade near streams. It attains a height of from 4 to 8 meters. The trunk
branches toward the top and is supported by a few short and thick prop roots.

The leaves are often 5 meters long and 2 decimeters wide. The lower part of the older leaves
stands up straight, while the upper half droops. The younger leaves are erect with only their
tips bent down. The leaf spines are short, blunt, and conical.

The fruits look like the jackfruit and are very large and heavy, being often 6 decimeters long
and 2 decimeters in diameter and weighing at times 25 or more kilograms. The drupes ripen slowly
and gradually; they are red in color when fully mature and possess a peculiar faint odor. It
takes some time before all the drupes are shed, and in a grove of fruiting trees they can be
found in all stages of maturity during the month of May.

