    "I, Myles Blomefylde, of Burye Saynct Edmunde in Suffolke, was
    borne ye yeare following after ye pryntyng of this boke (that
    is to saye) in the yeare of our Lorde 1525, the 5 day of Apryll,
    betwene 10 & 11, in ye nyght, nyghest xi, my father's name
    John, and my mother's name Anne."

This tract is bound up with two others, on both of which Blomefylde has written his initials,
and from one entry seems to have been at Venice in 1568. He was undoubtedly an ardent book-collector,
and I possess copies of the Ortus Vocabulorum, printed by W. de Worde, in 1518, and the Promptuarium
Parvulorum, printed by the same, in 1516, bound together, on both of which the name of Myles
Blomefylde in inscribed.

I may add, as a slight contribution to a future edition of the Typographical Antiquities, that
among Bagford's curious collection of title-pages in the Harleian Collection of MSS. (which
I doubt if Dr. Dibdin ever consulted with care), there is the last leaf of an edition of the
Ortus Vocabulorum, unnoticed by bibliographers, with the following colophon:--

    "Impr. London. per Wynandum de Worde, commorantem in vico
    nuncupato Fletestrete, sub intersignio solis aurei, Anno
    incarnatiôis Dominice M.CCCCC.IX. die vero prima mêsis
    Decêbris."--Harl. MSS. 5919. art. 36.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO MINOR QUERIES.

The Curse of Scotland--Why the Nine of Diamonds is so called.

When I was a child (now about half a century ago) my father used to explain the origin of the
nine of diamonds being called "The curse of Scotland" thus: That it was the "cross of Scotland,"
which, in the Scotch pronunciation, had become "curse."

St. Andrew is the patron saint of Scotland: he suffered on a cross, not of the usual form,
but like the letter X, which has since been commonly called a St. Andrew's cross. It was supposed
that the similarity of the nine of diamonds to this form occasioned its being so called. The
arms of the Earl of Stair, alluded to in your publication, are exactly in the form of this
cross. If this explanation should be useful, you are most welcome to it.

A.F.

Thistle of Scotland.

Sir,--Your correspondent R.L. (No. 2. p. 24.), will find the fullest information on this head
in Sir Harris Nicolas's work on the Orders of Knighthood of the British Empire. He does not
assign to its origin an earlier date than the reign of James III, in an inventory of whose
jewels, Thistles are mentioned as part of the ornaments. The motto "Nemo me impune lacessit,"
does not appear until James VI. adopted it on his coinage.

G.H.B.

For Scottish Thistle, see Nisbet's Heraldry, vol. ii. Order of St. Andrew. Selden, Titles of
Honour, p. 704. ed. 1672, refers to "Menenius, Miræus, Favin, and such more."

SCOTUS.

Record Publications.

Will any of your readers kindly favour me with a reference to any easily-accessible list of
the publications of the Record Commission, as well as to some account of the more valuable
Rolls still remaining unpublished, specifying where they exist, and how access is to be obtained
to them?

With every wish for the success of your undertaking,

Yours, &c.

D.S.

    [The late Sir H. Nicolas compiled an account of the publications
    of the Record Commission, which was published in his Notitia
    Historica, and also in an 8vo. vol, and is easily obtainable.
    There is also a series of articles in the Gentleman's Magazine
    for 1834, which contains a good deal of information upon the
    subject, with a classified list of the publications. The
    principal unpublished records are in the Tower and the Rolls'
    Chapel; any record may be inspected or copied at those places,
    or in any other Record Office, upon payment of a fee of one
    shilling.]

Katherine Pegge.

Sir,--Katherine Pegge, one of the mistresses of Charles II., was the daughter of Thomas Pegge,
of Yeldersley, near Ashborne in Derbyshire, Esq., where the family had been settled for several
generations, and where Mr. William Pegge, the last of the elder branch, died without issue
in 1768. Another branch of this family was of Osmaston, in the same neighbourhood, and of this
{91} was Dr. Samuel Pegge, the learned antiquary. They bore for arms:--Argent, a chevron between
three piles, sable. Crest:--A demi-sun issuing from a wreath or, the rays alternately argent
and sable.

It was during his exile that the King first met with the fair Katherine, and in 1657 had a
son by her, whom he called Charles Fitz-Charles,--not Fitz-roy as Granger says. Fitz-Charles
had a grant of the royal arms with a baton sinistre, vairé; and in 1675 his Majesty created
him Earl of Plymouth, Viscount Totness, and Baron Dartmouth. He was bred to the sea, and having
been educated abroad,--most probably in Spain,--was known by the name of Don Carlos. In 1678
the Earl married the Lady Bridget Osborne, third daughter of Thomas Earl of Danby, and died
of a flux at the siege of Tangier in 1680, without issue.

Katherine Pegge, the Earl's mother, after her liaison with the King, married Sir Edward Greene,
Bart., of Samford in Essex, and died without issue by him in ----. From this marriage the King
is sometimes said to have had a mistress named Greene.

There was long preserved in the family a half-length portrait of the Earl, in a robe de chamber,
laced cravat, and flowing hair (with a ship in the back-ground of the picture), by Sir Peter
Lely; and also two of his mother, Lady Greene: one a half length, with her infant son standing
by her side, the other a three-quarters,--both by Sir Peter Lely, or by one of his pupils.

Both mother and son are said to have been eminently beautiful.

G.M.

East Winch, Nov. 30.

N., who refers our Querist for particulars of this lady to the "Memoirs of the Rev. Dr. Samuel
Pegge and his Family," in Nichols' Literary Anecdotes of the Eighteenth Century, vol. vi. pp.
224, 225, adds--"As the lady had no issue by Sir Edward Greene, it perhaps does not matter
what his family was.

    "I see he was created a baronet 26th July, 1660, and died s. p.
    Dec. 1676; and that Courthope, in his Extinct Baronetage,
    calls his lady 'dau. of ---- Pegg,' not being aware of her
    importance as the mother of the Earl of Plymouth. This may be
    worth remarking."

The Rev. T. Leman.

Sir,--Your correspondent A.T. will find the information he requires respecting the Reverend
Thomas Leman, of Bath, in the Gentleman's Magazine for Oct. 1826, p. 373.; for Aug. 1828, p.
183.; and for Feb. 1829. He may also consult Britton's Memoirs of the Life, Writings, and Character
of Henry Hatcher.

G.M.

A Memoir of the Rev. Thomas Leman will be found in Nichols's Illustrations of Literature, vol.
vi. p. 435, et seq., comprising an enumeration of his writings in various county histories
and other works of that character, and followed by eighteen letters addressed to Mr. Nicholls,
J.N. Brewer, Esq., and the Rev. Dr. Samuel Parr.

N.

Burnet Prize at Aberdeen.

Sir,--I sent a query to the Athenæum, who, by a note, referred it to you.

My object is to ascertain who gained the last Theological Premium (forty years since, or nearly)
at Aberdeen. You no doubt know the subject: it is the best Treatise on "the Evidence that there
is a Being all powerful, wise, and good, by whom every thing exists; and particularly to obviate
difficulties regarding the wisdom and goodness of the Deity; and this, in the first place from
considerations independent of Written Revelation, and, in the second place, from the revelation
of the Lord Jesus; and, from the whole, to point out the inferences most necessary for and
useful to mankind."

I wish to know who gained the first prize, and who the second premium.

H. ANDREW

Manchester, Nov. 27, 1849.

    [We are happy to be able to answer our correspondent's query at
    once. The first Burnet prize, on the last occasion, was gained
    by the Reverend William Lawrence Brown, D.D., and Principal, if
    we recollect rightly, of Mareschal College, Aberdeen. His prize
    work, entitled Essay on the Existence of a Supreme Being
    possessed of Infinite Power, Wisdom, and Goodness, was
    published at Aberdeen in 2 vols. 8vo. 1816. The second prize man
    was the present amiable and distinguished Archbishop of
    Canterbury. His work, entitled A Treatise on the Records of
    Creation, was published in London, in 2 vols. 8vo. 1816.]

Incumbents of Church Livings.

Sir,--In answer to the Query of your correspondent L., I beg to inform him that he may find
the name, if not the birth-place, of incumbents and patrons of Church Livings in the county
of Norfolk, long prior to 1680, in the Institution Books at Norwich, consisting of numerous
well preserved folio volumes. Blomefield and Parkin, the historians of the county, have made
ample use of these inestimable books.

In reply to the two queries of your correspondent ANGLO-CAMBRIAN:--

1. The Remarks upon the History of the Landed and Commercial Policy of England was written
by the Rev. Joseph Hudson, Prebendary of Carlisle, 1782, "a judicious and elegant writer, who
could not be prevailed on to give his name with it to the public."--See Nichols's Literary
Anecdotes of the Eighteenth Century, vol. viii. p. 160, note. {92} Mr. N. characterises it
as "a valuable work, richly deserving to be better known."

2. There are two histories of King Edward II., one in small folio, of which the title is accurately
given by your correspondent, and another in 8vo., the title of which is given at the head of
the reprint in the Harleian Miscellany, vol. i. p. 69. Both these editions bear the date of
1680. I had always supposed that the edition in 8vo. was a mere reprint of the folio; but on
now comparing the text of the folio with that of the 8vo. as given in the Harl. Miscellany,
I find the most essential differences; so much so, as hardly to be recognised as the same.
Mr. Park, the last editor of the Harl. Miscellany (who could only find the folio), appears
to have been puzzled by these differences, and explains them by the supposition that the diction
has been much modified by Mr. Oldys (the original editor of the Miscellany), a supposition
which is entirely erroneous. The "Publisher's Advertisement to the Reader," and the "Author's
Preface to the Reader," signed "E.F.," and dated "Feb. 20, 1627," are both left out in the
8vo.; and it will be seen that the anonymous authorship and date of composition in the title-page
are suppressed, for which we have substituted "found among the papers of, and (supposed to
be) writ by, the Right Honourable Henry Viscount Faulkland."

Antony Wood, without absolutely questioning its authenticity, seems to have regarded it as
a mere ephemeral production, as brought out at a time "when the press was open for all such
books that could make any thing against the then government, with a preface to the reader patch'd
up from very inconsiderable authors, by Sir Ja. II. as is supposed."--Athen. Oxom. vol. ii.
p. 565. There is not the slightest evidence to connect the authorship either of the folio or
the 8vo. with Henry Viscount Falkland.

Your correspondent A.T. (p. 59.) will find all the information he desires about the Rev. Thomas
Leman, and the assistance he rendered to Mr. Hatcher in his edition of Richard of Cirencester,
in Mr. Britton's own Autobiography. See pp. 7 and 8.

C.L.L.

To eat Humble Pie.

Mr. Editor,--Your correspondent, Mr. HAMMACK, having recorded Mr. Pepys's love of "brave venison
pasty," whilst asking the derivation of the phrase, "eating humble pie," in reference to a
bill of fare of Pepys's age, I venture to submit that the humble pie of that period was indeed
the pie named in the list quoted; and not only so, but that it was made out of the "umbles"
or entrails of the deer, a dish of the second table, inferior of course to the venison pasty
which smoked upon the dais, and therefore not inexpressive of that humiliation which the term
"eating humble pie" now painfully describes. The "umbles" of the deer are constantly the perquisites
of the gamekeeper.

A.G.

Ecclesfield, Nov. 24, 1849.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Eva, Daughter of Dermot Mac Murrough.

Mr. Editor,--I should be glad if any of your readers, Irish or English, could inform me whether
we have any other mention of Eva, daughter of Dermot Mac Murrough, last independent king of
Leinster, than that she became, in the spring of the year 1170, the wife of Richard Strongbow,
Earl of Pembroke, at Waterford.

Any fortunate possessor of O'Donovan's new translation of The Annals of the Four Masters, would
much oblige me by referring to the dates 1135 and 1169, and also to the period included between
them, for any casual notice of the birth of this Eva, or mention of other slight incident with
which she is connected, which may there exist.

A. HAPLESS HUNTER

Malvern Wells, Nov. 20, 1849.

John de Daundelyon.

Sir,--In the north chancel of St. John's Church, Margate, is a fine brass for John Daundelyon,
1445, with a large dog at his feet; referring to which the Rev. John Lewis, in his History
of the Isle of Tenet, 1723 (p. 98.), says:

    "The two last bells were cast by the same founder, and the tenor
    the gift of one of the family of Daundelyon, which has been
    extinct since 1460. Concerning this bell the inhabitants repeat
    this traditionary rhyme:

      "John de Daundelyon, with his great dog,
      Brought over this bell on a mill-cog."

This legend is still given to visitors of this fine old church. Will some of your antiquarian
correspondents throw some light on the obscurity?

C.

Genealogy of European Sovereigns.

Sir,--Can you or any of your correspondents tell me of one or two of the best works on the
"Genealogy of European Sovereigns?" I know of one,--Anderson's Royal Genealogies, London, 1732,
folio. But that is not of as late a date as I should wish to see.

Q.X.Z.

Duke of Ashgrove.

At p. 14. of Doctor Simon Forman's Diary (edited by Mr. Halliwell, 1849), mention is twice
made of Forman being engaged as "Scholmaster to the Duke of Ashgrove's Sonnes." Who was the
person thus alluded to?

P.C.S.S. {93}

Sir William Godbold.

Mr. Editor,--In the Gentleman's Magazine for July, 1842, occurs this:--

    "In the parish church of Mendham, Suffolk, is a mural monument
    bearing an inscription, of which the following is a transcript:

    "'M.S.V.Cmi Doctissimique D. Gulielmi Godbold Militis ex
    illustri et perantiquâ Prosapiâ oriundi, Qui post Septennem
    Peregrinationem animi excolendi gratiâ per Italiam, Græciam,
    Palæstinam, Arabiam, Persiam, in solo natali in bonarum
    literarum studiis consenescens morte repentinâ obiit Londini
    mense Aprilis Ao. D. MDCXIIIC, ætatis LXIX.'

    "One would presume that so great a traveller would have obtained
    some celebrity in his day; but I have never met with any notice
    of Sir William Godbold. I have ascertained that he was the only
    son of Thomas Godbold, a gentleman of small estate residing at
    Metfield, in Suffolk, and was nephew to John Godbold, Esq.,
    Serjeant-at-Law, who was appointed Chief Justice of the Isle of
    Ely in 1638. He appears to have been knighted previously to
    1664, and married Elizabeth daughter and heir of Richard
    Freston, of Mendham (Norfolk), Esq., and relict of Sir Nicholas
    Bacon, of Gillingham, Bart., whom he survived, and died without
    issue in 1687. I should consider myself under an obligation to
    any of your correspondents who could afford me any further
    account of this learned knight, or refer me to any biographical
    or other notice of him."

To the writer of that letter the desideratum still remains unsupplied. Your welcome publication
appears to offer a channel for repeating the inquiry.

G.A.C.

Ancient motto.

Many years since I read that some pope or emperor caused the following, or a motto very similar
to it, to be engraven in the centre of his table:--

    "Si quis amiecum absentem rodere delectat ad hanc mensam
    accumbere indignus est."

It being a maxim which all should observe in the daily intercourse of life, and in the propriety
of which all must concur, I send this to "NOTES AND QUERIES" (the long wished-for medium),
in the hopes that some kind "note-maker" can inform me from whence this motto is taken, and
to whom ascribed.

J.E.M.

Works of King Alfred.

Sir,--If any of your readers can inform me of MSS. of the Works of Kings Alfred the Great,
besides those which are found in the larger public collections of MSS., he will confer a favour
not only on the Alfred Committee, who propose to publish a complete edition of King Alfred's
Works, but also on their Secretary, who is your obedient servant,

J.A. GILES.

Bampton, Oxford, Nov. 23. 1849

"Bive" and "Chote" Lambs.

I should be much obliged to any of your readers who would favour me with an explanation of
the words "Bive" and "Chote." They were thus applied in an inventory taken Kent.

  "27 Hen. VIII. Michaelm.
  Bive lambes at xvid. the pece.
  Chote lambes at xiid. the pece."

T.W.

Anecdote of the Civil Wars.

Horace Walpole alludes to an anecdote of a country gentleman, during the Civil Wars, falling
in with one of the armies on the day of some battle (Edgehill or Naseby?) as he was quietly
going out with his hounds. Where did Walpole find this anecdote?

C.

A Political Maxim--when first used.

Who first used the phrase--"When bad men conspire, good men must combine"?

C.

Richard of Cirencester

S.A.A. inquires whether the authenticity of Richard of Cirencester, the Monk of Westminster,
has ever been satisfactorily proved. The prevailing opinion amongst some of the greatest antiquaries
has been that the work was a forgery by Dr. Bertram, of Copenhagen, with a view of testing
the antiquarian knowledge of the famous Dr. Stukeley; of this opinion was the learned and acute
Dr. Whittaker and Mr. Conybeare. It is also further worthy of mention that some years since,
when the late Earl Spencer was in Copenhagen, he searched in vain for the original manuscript,
which no one there could tell him had ever existed, and very many doubt if it ever existed at all.

Lord Erskine's Brooms.

When and where was it that a man was apprehended for selling brooms without a hawker's licence,
and defended himself by showing that they were the agricultural produce of Lord Erskine's property,
and that he was Lord E.'s servant?

GRIFFIN.

John Bell of the Chancery Bar.

When did John Bell cease to practise in the Court of Chancery, and when did he give up practice
altogether, and when was the conversation with Lord Eldon on that subject supposed to have
take place?

GRIFFIN

Billingsgate.

Mr. Editor--Stow, in his Survey of London, with reference to Billingsgate, states, from Geoffrey
of Monmouth, "that it was built by Belin, a king of the Britons, whose ashes were enclosed
in a vessel of brass, and set upon a high pinnacle of {94} stone over the same Gate." ... "That
it was the largest water Gate on the River of Thames." ... "That it is at this day a large
water Gate," &c. Can you, Mr. Editor, or any of your respected correspondents, refer me to
any drawing or description of the said Gate?

WILLIAM WILLIAMS.

Rood Lane, Nov. 24. 1849.

Family of Pointz of Greenham.

