Instructor in Story Writing, Columbia University (Extension Teaching and Summer Session).

CONTENTS

EACH IN HIS GENERATION. By Maxwell Struthers Burt

"CONTACT!" By Frances Noyes Hart

THE CAMEL'S BACK. By F. Scott Fitzgerald

BREAK-NECK HILL. By Esther Forbes

BLACK ART AND AMBROSE. By Guy Gilpatric

THE JUDGMENT OF VULCAN. By Lee Foster Hartman

THE ARGOSIES. By Alexander Hull

ALMA MATER. By O. F. Lewis

SLOW POISON. By Alice Duer Miller

THE FACE IN THE WINDOW. By William Dudley Pelley

A MATTER OF LOYALTY. By Lawrence Perry

PROFESSOR TODD'S USED CAR. By L.H. Robbins

THE THING THEY LOVED. By "Marice Rutledge"

BUTTERFLIES. By "Rose Sidney"

NO FLOWERS. By Gordon Arthur Smith

FOOTFALLS. By Wilbur Daniel Steele

THE LAST ROOM OF ALL. By Stephen French Whitman

INTRODUCTION

O. HENRY MEMORIAL AWARD PRIZE STORIES 1919, in its introduction, rendered a brief account of
the origin of this monument to O. Henry's genius. Founded in 1918 by the Society of Arts and
Sciences, through the initiative of Managing Director John F. Tucker, it took the form of two
annual prizes of $500 and $250 for, respectively, the best and second-best stories written
by Americans and published in America.

The Committee of Award sifted the periodicals of 1919 and found thirty-two which, in their
opinion, were superior specimens of short-story art. The prize-winners, determined in the manner
set forth, were Margaret Prescott Montague's "England to America" and Wilbur Daniel Steele's
"For They Know Not What They Do." For these stories the authors duly received the awards, on
the occasion of the O. Henry Memorial dinner which was given by the Society at the Hotel Astor,
June 2, 1920.

Since it appeared to be a fitting extension of the memorial to incorporate in volume form the
narratives chosen, they were included, either by title or reprint, in the first book of the
series of which this is the second. Thus grouped, they are testimony to unprejudiced selection
on the part of the Committee of Award as they are evidence of ability on the part of their authors.

The first volume has met favour from critics and from laymen. For the recognition of tedious,
if pleasant, hours necessary to a meticulous survey of twelve months' brief fiction, the Committee
of Award are grateful, as they are indebted to the generous coöperation of authors and publishers,
but for whom the work would have been impossible of continuation.

The committee express thanks for the approval which affirms that "No more fitting tribute to
the genius of William Sidney Porter (O. Henry) could possibly have been devised than that of
this 'Memorial Award,'" [1] which recognizes each story as "a definite expression of American
life--as O. Henry's was," [2] which knows by inescapable logic that a story ranking second
with five judges is superior to one ranking first with only one of these. A number of reviewers
graciously showed awareness of this fact.

[Footnote 1: New York Times, June 2, 1920.]

[Footnote 2: Chicago Tribune, Paris Edition, August 7, 1920.]

The Committee of Award for 1920 consisted of

  BLANCHE COLTON WILLIAMS, Ph.D., Chairman  |
  EDWARD J. WHEELER, Litt.D.                | JUDGES
  ETHEL WATTS MUMFORD                       |
  MERLE ST. CROIX WRIGHT, D.D.              |
  and JOHN F. TUCKER, Managing Director of the Society,
  Founder of the O. Henry Memorial.

As in preceding years the Committee held regular meetings at which they weighed the merits
of every story-candidate presented. By January, 1921, one hundred and twenty-five remained,
among which those rated highest are as follows:[3]

  Babcock, Edwina Stanton, Gargoyle (Harper's, Sept.)
  Barrett, Richmond Brooks, The Daughter of the Bernsteins
    (Smart Set, July).
  "Belden, Jacques," The Duke's Opera (Munsey's, October).
  Benét, Stephen Vincent, The Funeral of John Bixby (Munsey's, July).
  Brooks, Jonathan, Bills Playable (Collier's, September 18).
  Burt, Maxwell Struthers, A Dream or Two (Harper's, May);
    Each in His Generation (Scribner's, July).
  Cabell, James Branch, The Designs of Miramon (Century, August).
  Child, Richard Washburn, A Thief Indeed (Pictorial Review, June).
  Clausen, Carl, The Perfect Crime (Saturday Evening Post, Sept. 25).
  Cram, Mildred, The Ember (McCall's, June); Odell (Red
    Book, May); Wind (Munsey's, August).
  Dobie, Charles Caldwell, Young China (Ladies Home Journal, August).
  Edwards, Cleveland, Pride o' Name on Peachtree (Live Stories, Feb.).
  Ferber, Edna, You've Got to Be Selfish (McClure's, April).
  Fitzgerald, Scott, The Camel's Back (Saturday Evening Post,
    Apr. 24); The Cut-Glass Bowl (Scribner's, May);
    The Off-Shore Pirate (Saturday Evening Post, May 29).
  Forbes, Esther, Break-Neck Hill (Grinnell Review, September).
  Gilpatric, Guy, Black Art and Ambrose (Collier's, August 21).
  Hartman, Lee Foster, The Judgment of Vulcan (Harper's, March).
  Hergesheimer, Joseph, "Read Them and Weep" (Century, January).
  Hooker, Brian, Branwen (Romance, June).
  Hull, Alexander, The Argosies (Scribner's, September).
  Hume, Wilkie, The Metamorphosis of High Yaller
     (Live Stories, June).
  Kabler, Hugh, Fools First (Saturday Evening Post, November 20).
  Kerr, Sophie, Divine Waste (Woman's Home Companion, May).
  La Motte, Widows and Orphans (Century, September).
  Lewis, O. F., Alma Mater (Red Book, June). Sparks That Flash
    in the Night (Red Book, October).
  Marquis, Don Kale (Everybody's, September); Death and Old Man
    Murtrie (New Republic, February 4).
  Marshall, Edison, Brother Bill the Elk (Blue Book, May).
  Means, E. K., The Ten-Share Horse (Munsey's, May).
  Miller, Alice Duer, Slow Poison (Saturday Evening Post, June 12).
  Montague, Margaret Prescott, Uncle Sam of Freedom Ridge (Atlantic
    Monthly, June).
  [4]Mumford, Ethel Watts, A Look of the Copperleys (Ladies Home
    Journal, April); Red Gulls (Pictorial Review, October).
  Newell, Maude Woodruff, Salvage (Green Book, July).
  Noyes, Frances Newbold, "Contact!" [5] (Pictorial Review, December).
  Pelley, William Dudley, The Face in the Window (Red Book, May);
       The Show-Down (Red Book, June).
  Perry, Lawrence, The Real Game (Everybody's, July). A Matter of
    Loyalty (Red Book, July); The Lothario of the Seabird
    (Ladies Home Journal, August); The Rocks of Avalon
    (Red Book, December).
  Post, Melville Davisson, The House by the Loch (Hearst's, May).
  Redington, Sarah, A Certain Rich Woman (Outlook, May 5).
  Reid, M. F., Doodle Buys a Bull Pup (Everybody's, August).
  Richardson, Norval, The Bracelet (McClure's, July).
  Robbins, L.H., "Ain't This the Darnedest World?" (American, May);
    Professor Todd's Used Car (Everybody's, July).
  "Rutledge, Marice," The Thing They Loved (Century, May).
  Ryan, Kathryn White, A Man of Cone (Munsey's, March).
  Scarborough, Dorothy, The Drought (Century, May).
  "Sidney, Rose," Butterflies (Pictorial Review, September).
  Smith, Gordon Arthur, No Flowers (Harper's, May); The Aristocrat
    (Harper's, November).
  Steele, Wilbur Daniel, Both Judge and Jury (Harper's, January);
    God's Mercy (Pictorial Review, July); Footfalls (Pictorial
    Review, October).
  Synon, Mary, On Scarlet Wings (Red Book, July).
  Titus, Harold, Aliens (Ladies Home Journal, May).
  Tuckerman, Arthur, Black Magic, (Scribner's, August).
  Welles, Harriet, According to Ruskin (Woman's Home Companion,
       June);
    Distracting Adeline (Scribner's, May).
  Whitman, Stephen French, The Last Room of All (Harper's, June).
  Wilkes, Allene Tupper, Toop Goes Skating (Woman's Home Companion,
    November).

[Footnote 3: Listed alphabetically by authors.]

[Footnote 4: A member of the Committee of Award, this author refused as a matter of course
to allow consideration of her stories for republication here or for the prizes. But the other
members insist upon their being listed, and upon mention of "Red Gulls" as one of the best
stories of 1920.]

[Footnote 5: Reprinted as by Frances Noyes Hart.]

From this list were selected seventeen stories which, in the judgment of the Committee, rank
highest and which, therefore, are reprinted in this volume.

Since, as will be recalled from the conditions of the award, only American authors were considered,
certain familiar foreign names are conspicuously absent. Achmed Abdullah, Stacy Aumonier, F.
Britten Austin, Phyllis Bottome, Thomas Burke, Coningsby Dawson, Mrs. Henry Dudeney, Lord Dunsany,
John Galsworthy, Perceval Gibbon, Blasco Ibañez, Maurice Level, A. Neil Lyons, Seumas MacManus,
Leonard Merrick, Maria Moravsky, Alfred Noyes, May Sinclair and Hugh Walpole all illustrate
recovery from the world war. But with their stories the Committee had nothing to do. The Committee
cannot forbear mention, however, of "Under the Tulips" (Detective Stories, February 10), one
of the two best horror specimens of the year. It is by an Englishwoman, May Edginton.

Half a dozen names from the foreign list just given are synonymous with the best fiction of
the period. Yet the short story as practised in its native home continues to excel the short
story written in other lands. The English, the Russian, the French, it is being contended in
certain quarters, write better literature. They do not, therefore, write better stories. If
literature is of a magnificent depth and intricate subtlety in a measure proportionate to its
reflection of the vast complexity of a nation that has existed as such for centuries, conceivably
it will be facile and clever in a measure proportionate to its reflection of the spirit of
the commonwealth which in a few hundred years has acquired a place with age-old empires.

The American short-story is "simple, economical, and brilliantly effective," H.L. Mencken admits.[6]
"Yet the same hollowness that marks the American novel," he continues, "also marks the short
story." And of "many current makers of magazine short stories," he asseverates, "such stuff
has no imaginable relation to life as men live it in the world." He further comments, "the
native author of any genuine force and originality is almost invariably found to be under strong
foreign influences, either English or Continental."

With due regard for the justice of this slant--that of a student of Shaw, Ibsen, and Nietzsche--we
believe that the best stories written in America to-day reflect life, even life that is sordid
and dreary or only commonplace. In the New York Evening Post[7] the present writer observed:

"A backward glance over the short stories of the preceding twelve months discovers two facts.
There are many of them, approximately between fifteen hundred and two thousand; there are,
comparatively, few of merit."

[Footnote 6: The National Letters, in Prejudices, second series, Knopf, N.Y., 1920.]

[Footnote 7: April 24, 1920.]

"You have looked from the rear platform of the limited, across the widening distance, at a
town passed a moment ago. A flourishing city, according to the prospectus; a commonplace aggregation
of architecture, you say; respectable middle-class homes; time-serving cottages built on the
same plan; a heaven-seeking spire; perhaps a work of art in library or townhall. You are rather
glad that you have left it behind; rather certain that soon you will have rolled through another,
its counterpart.

"But there may be hope, here, of sorts. For a typical American town represents twentieth century
life and development, just as current short stories reflect conditions. If the writer failed
to represent his age, to reflect its peculiar images, he would not serve it truly."

It is significant that these words preceded by only a few months the publication of Sinclair
Lewis's "Main Street," which illustrates in a big and popular way the point in question. Work
of satire that it is, it cannot but hold out a solution of the problem presented: in the sweep
of the land to the Rockies lies a "dominion which will rise to unexampled greatness when other
empires have grown senile."

America is young; its writers are young. But they are reflecting the many-coloured, multiform
life of America, in journalism and in art. Quite naturally, they profit by all that has preceded
them in other literatures. Since their work stands rooted in romanticism it may legitimately
heighten the effects and lights of everyday life.

A glance at the stories republished by the O. Henry Memorial Award Committee for 1920 will
reveal their varied nature. The genus Africanus is represented by "Black Art and Ambrose,"
which has a close second in another on the list, "The Metamorphosis of High Yaller," and a
third in "The Ten-Share Horse" of E.K. Means. The tabulation reveals a number of cosmic types--Jewish,
Chinese, English, French, Irish, Italian, American. The Chinese character is even more ubiquitous
than in 1919, but the tales wherein he figures appear to the Committee to be the last drops
in the bucket. Two exceptions occur: "Young China," by Charles Caldwell Dobie, and "Widows
and Orphans," by Ellen La Motte. The former knows San Francisco Chinatown, the latter is acquainted
with the Oriental at home. One of the Committee regards "The Daughter of the Bernsteins" as
the best story of Jewish character. Another sees in it a certain crudeness. Its companions
in the year were the tales of Bruno Lessing, Montague Glass, and--in particular--a story by
Leon Kelley entitled "Speeches Ain't Business" (Pictorial Review, July).

But this note on the list is a digression. With regard to the stories reprinted, "The Last
Room of All" illustrates old-world influence, surely, in its recountal of events in an age
long past, the time of the Second Emperor Frederick of Swabia. In its revival of old forms,
old customs, it is a masquerade. But behold that it is a gorgeous blood-coloured masquerade
and that Cercamorte is a distinct portrait of the swash-buckler hero of those times.

The young Americans in "The Camel's Back" support a critical thesis made for their author that
he is evolving an idiom. It is the idiom of young America. If you are over thirty, read one
of this prodigy's ten-thousand word narratives and discover for the first time that you are
separated by a hopeless chasm from the infant world.

"Professor Todd's Used Car" and "Alma Mater" are two of the numerous stories published in 1920
which take up the cudgels for the undertrodden college professor. Incidentally, it is interesting
to read from a letter of Mr. Lewis: "The brevity--and the twist in the plot at the end--were
consciously patterned on O. Henry's methods."

Without further enumeration of the human types, it is a matter of observation that they exist
in many moods and ages as they exist in real life. A revenant who lived one hundred years ago
might pick up this volume and secure a fairly accurate idea of society to-day. A visitor from
another country might find it a guide to national intelligence and feeling.

A few stories appealed to the Committee for their poetry. "The Funeral of John Bixby," by Stephen
Vincent Benét, and "The Duke's Opera," by "Jacques Belden" (the first an allegorical fantasy
and the second a poetic-romance) are at the head of this division. With these should be included
Don Marquis's "Death and Old Man Murtrie," for its sardonic allegory, and "The Designs of Miramon,"
by James Branch Cabell, for its social satire. Individual members of the Committee would have
liked to include these--different members preferring different ones of the four--but the Committee
as a whole saw the allegory or satire or poetry predominant over story values.

The mysterious and the tragic are found in the work of Mildred Cram and Wilbur Daniel Steele.
"Odell" and "Wind" illustrate Miss Cram's particular genius in this direction: but "The Ember,"
it is voted, ranks first of her publications. Mr. Steele's "Both Judge and Jury" and "God's
Mercy" are exotic, perhaps, but the atmosphere he creates is beguiling in comparison with that
of mere everyday. "Footfalls" was selected out of an embarrassment of riches offered by this
author. The best horror story of the year is Rose Sidney's "Butterflies." It is a Greek tragedy,
unrelieved, to be taken or left without palliation.

Athletics, no one will deny, constitutes a definite phase of American life. The sport-struggle
is best illustrated in the fiction of Lawrence Perry, whether it be that of a polo match, tennis
game, or crew race. "A Matter of Loyalty" is representative of this contest, and in the combined
judgment of the Committee the highest ranking of all Mr. Perry's stories. "Bills Playable,"
by Jonathan Brooks, conceives athletics in a more humorous spirit.

Animal stories fill page upon page of 1920 magazines. Edison Marshall, represented in the 1919
volume, by "The Elephant Remembers," has delivered the epic of "Brother Bill the Elk." In spite
of its length, some fifteen thousand words, the Committee were mightily tempted to request
it for republication. Its Western author knows the animals in their native lairs. "Break-Neck
Hill," for which a member of the Committee suggests the more poignant "Heart-Break Hill" as
title, expresses sympathy for the horse in a way the Committee believe hitherto unexploited.
"Aliens" received more votes as the best dog story of the year.

Among a number of sea-tales are those by Richard Matthews Hallet, wherein Big Captain Hat appears.
The woman sea-captain is by way of being, for the moment, a novel figure.

Anecdotal stories and very brief tales appear to have received editorial sanction in 1920.
"No Flowers" is of the former genre, and whereas certain of the Committee see in the same author's
"The Aristocrat" a larger story, they agree with the majority that the scintillance of this
well-polished gem should give it setting here.

Variety of setting and diversity of emotion the reader will find in greater measure, perhaps,
than in the first volume of this series. "Butterflies," for example, spells unrelieved horror;
"The Face in the Window" demands sympathetic admiration for its heroine; to read "Contact!"
means to suffer the familiar Aristotelian purging of the emotions through tears. And their
locales are as widely dissimilar as are their emotional appeals. With these, all of which are
reprinted herein, the reader will do well to compare Dorothy Scarborough's "Drought," for the
pathos of a situation brought about by the elements of nature in Texas.

The Committee could not agree upon the first and second prize stories. The leaders were: "Each
in His Generation," "Contact!" "The Thing They Loved," "The Last Room of All," "Slow Poison,"
"God's Mercy" and "Alma Mater." No story headed more than one list. The point system, to which
resort was made, resulted in the first prize falling to "Each in His Generation," by Maxwell
Struthers Burt, and the second to "Contact!", by Frances Newbold Noyes (now Frances Noyes Hart).

Mr. Burt's story of Henry McCain and his nephew Adrian compresses within legitimate story limits
the antagonism between successive generations. Each representative, bound by traditions and
customs of the particular age to which he belongs, is bound also by the chain of inheritance.
One interested in the outcome of the struggle between the inexorable thrall of "period" and
the inevitable bond of race will find the solution of the problem satisfactory, as will the
reader who enjoys the individual situation and wishes most to find out whether Uncle Henry
left his money to Adrian or rejected that choice for marriage with the marvellous lady of his
own era.

"Contact!" is the first story by the author of "My A.E.F." and in its every line testifies
to the vital interest Miss Noyes had and has in the boys who won the war--whether American,
French or English. So much one would know from a single rapid reading. A critic might guess
that it would have been impossible as a first story if the author had not lived much abroad,
as she has done since she was very much of a child. At Oxford, or in the home of Gaston Paris,
or travelling around the globe, she received the foundation for the understanding sympathy
which endeared her as "Petite" to her soldier boys. A critic might also aver that the steady
moving forward of the action, joined to the backward progress, yet both done so surely, could
not have been achieved without years of training. And in this respect the narrative is little
short of being a tour de force. But, as a matter of fact. Miss Noyes dreamed the whole thing!
Her antecedent experience proved greater than mere technique.

The Committee wish to comment upon the irregularity of the output of fiction from month to
month. May brought forth the greatest number of good stories, as November reaped the fewest.
They wish, also, to register notice of the continued flexibility of the short story form. "The
Judgment of Vulcan," at one extreme, in some thirteen thousand words none the less relates
a short story; "Alma Mater," at the other, accomplishes the same end in two thousand. It is
a matter of record that the Committee discovered a number of excellent examples containing
not more than two thirds this latter number, a fact that argues against the merging of the
short story and the novel. Finally, the Committee believe the fiction of the year 1920 superior
to that of 1919.

  BLANCHE COLTON WILLIAMS,
  NEW YORK CITY,
  March 3, 1921.

EACH IN HIS GENERATION

BY MAXWELL STRUTHERS BURT

From Scribner's Magazine

Every afternoon at four o'clock, except when the weather was very bad--autumn, winter, and
spring--old Mr. Henry McCain drove up to the small, discreet, polished front door, in the small,
discreet, fashionable street in which lived fairly old Mrs. Thomas Denby; got out, went up
the white marble steps, rang the bell, and was admitted into the narrow but charming hall--dim
turquoise-blue velvet panelled into the walls, an etching or two: Whistler, Brangwyn--by a
trim parlour-maid. Ten generations, at least, of trim parlour-maids had opened the door for
Mr. McCain. They had seen the sparkling victoria change, not too quickly, to a plum-coloured
limousine; they had seen Mr. McCain become perhaps a trifle thinner, the colour in his cheeks
become a trifle more confined and fixed, his white hair grow somewhat sparser, but beyond that
they had seen very little indeed, although, when they had left Mr. McCain in the drawing-room
with the announcement that Mrs. Denby would be down immediately, and were once again seeking
the back of the house, no doubt their eyebrows, blonde, brunette, or red, apexed to a questioning
angle.

In the manner of youth the parlour-maids had come, worked, fallen in love and departed, but
Mr. McCain, in the manner of increasing age, had if anything grown more faithful and exact
to the moment. If he were late the fraction of five minutes, one suspected that he regretted
it, that it came near to spoiling his entire afternoon. He was not articulate, but occasionally
he expressed an idea and the most common was that he "liked his things as he liked them"; his
eggs, in other words, boiled just so long, no more--after sixty years of inner debate on the
subject he had apparently arrived at the conclusion that boiled eggs were the only kind of
eggs permissible--his life punctual and serene. The smallest manifestation of unexpectedness
disturbed him. Obviously that was one reason why, after a youth not altogether constant, he
had become so utterly constant where Mrs. Denby was concerned. She had a quality of perenniality,
charming and assuring, even to each strand of her delicate brown hair. Grayness should have
been creeping upon her, but it was not. It was doubtful if Mr. McCain permitted himself, even
secretly, to wonder why. Effects, fastidious and constant, were all he demanded from life.

This had been going on for twenty years--this afternoon call; this slow drive afterward in
the park; this return by dusk to the shining small house in the shining small street; the good-by,
reticently ardent, as if it were not fully Mr. McCain's intention to return again in the evening.
Mr. McCain would kiss Mrs. Denby's hand--slim, lovely, with a single gorgeous sapphire upon
the third finger. "Good-by, my dear," he would say, "you have given me the most delightful
afternoon of my life." For a moment Mrs. Denby's hand would linger on the bowed head; then
Mr. McCain would straighten up, smile, square his shoulders in their smart, young-looking coat,
and depart to his club, or the large, softly lit house where he dwelt alone. At dinner he would
drink two glasses of champagne. Before he drained the last sip of the second pouring he would
hold the glass up to the fire, so that the bronze coruscations at the heart of the wine glowed
like fireflies in a gold dusk. One imagined him saying to himself: "A perfect woman! A perfect
woman--God bless her!" Saying "God bless" any one, mind you, with a distinct warming of the
heart, but a thoroughly late-Victorian disbelief in any god to bless.... At least, you thought
as much.

And, of course, one had not the slightest notion whether he--old Mr. Henry McCain--was aware
that this twenty years of devotion on his part to Mrs. Denby was the point upon which had come
to focus the not inconsiderable contempt and hatred for him of his nephew Adrian.

It was an obvious convergence, this devotion of all the traits which composed, so Adrian imagined,
the despicable soul that lay beneath his uncle's unangled exterior: undeviating self-indulgence;
secrecy; utter selfishness--he was selfish even to the woman he was supposed to love; that
is, if he was capable of loving any one but himself--a bland hypocrisy; an unthinking conformation
to the dictates of an unthinking world. The list could be multiplied. But to sum it up, here
was epitomized, beautifully, concretely, the main and minor vices of a generation for which
Adrian found little pity in his heart; a generation brittle as ice; a generation of secret
diplomacy; a generation that in its youth had covered a lack of bathing by a vast amount of
perfume. That was it--! That expressed it perfectly! The just summation! Camellias, and double
intentions in speech, and unnecessary reticences, and refusals to meet the truth, and a deliberate
hiding of uglinesses!

Most of the time Adrian was too busy to think about his uncle at all--he was a very busy man
with his writing: journalistic writing; essays, political reviews, propaganda--and because
he was busy he was usually well-content, and not uncharitable, except professionally; but once
a month it was his duty to dine with his uncle, and then, for the rest of the night, he was
disturbed, and awoke the next morning with the dusty feeling in his head of a man who has been
slightly drunk. Old wounds were recalled, old scars inflamed; a childhood in which his uncle's
figure had represented to him the terrors of sarcasm and repression; a youth in which, as his
guardian, his uncle had deprecated all first fine hot-bloodednesses and enthusiasms; a young
manhood in which he had been told cynically that the ways of society were good ways, and that
the object of life was material advancement; advice which had been followed by the stimulus
of an utter refusal to assist financially except where absolutely necessary. There had been
willingness, you understand, to provide a gentleman's education, but no willingness to provide
beyond that any of a gentleman's perquisites. That much of his early success had been due to
this heroic upbringing, Adrian was too honest not to admit, but then--by God, it had been hard!
All the colour of youth! No time to dream--except sorely! Some warping, some perversion! A
gasping, heart-breaking knowledge that you could not possibly keep up with the people with
whom, paradoxically enough, you were supposed to spend your leisure hours. Here was the making
of a radical. And yet, despite all this, Adrian dined with his uncle once a month.

The mere fact that this was so, that it could be so, enraged him. It seemed a renunciation
of all he affirmed; an implicit falsehood. He would have liked very much to have got to his
feet, standing firmly on his two long, well-made legs, and have once and for all delivered
himself of a final philippic. The philippic would have ended something like this:

"And this, sir, is the last time I sacrifice any of my good hours to you. Not because you are
old, and therefore think you are wise, when you are not; not because you are blind and besotted
and damned--a trunk of a tree filled with dry rot that presently a clean wind will blow away;
not because your opinions, and the opinions of all like you, have long ago been proven the
lies and idiocies that they are; not even because you haven't one single real right left to
live--I haven't come to tell you these things, although they are true; for you are past hope
and there is no use wasting words upon you; I have come to tell you that you bore me inexpressibly.
(That would be the most dreadful revenge of all. He could see his uncle's face!) That you have
a genius for taking the wrong side of every question, and I can no longer endure it. I dissipate
my time. Good-night!"

He wouldn't have said it in quite so stately a way, possibly, the sentences would not have
been quite so rounded, but the context would have been the same.

Glorious; but it wasn't said. Instead, once a month, he got into his dinner-jacket, brushed
his hair very sleekly, walked six blocks, said good-evening to his uncle's butler, and went
on back to the library, where, in a room rich with costly bindings, and smelling pleasantly
of leather, and warmly yellow with the light of two shaded lamps, he would find his uncle reading
before a crackling wood fire. What followed was almost a formula, an exquisite presentation
of stately manners, an exquisite avoidance of any topic which might cause a real discussion.
The dinner was invariably gentle, persuasive, a thoughtful gastronomic achievement. Heaven
might become confused about its weather, and about wars, and things like that, but Mr. McCain
never became confused about his menus. He had a habit of commending wine. "Try this claret,
my dear fellow, I want your opinion....  A drop of this Napoleonic brandy won't hurt you a
bit." He even sniffed the bouquet before each sip; passed, that is, the glass under his nose
and then drank. But Adrian, with a preconceived image of the personality back of this, and
the memory of too many offences busy in his mind, saw nothing quaint or amusing. His gorge
rose. Damn his uncle's wines, and his mushrooms, and his soft-footed servants, and his house
of nuances and evasions, and his white grapes, large and outwardly perfect, and inwardly sentimental
as the generation whose especial fruit they were. As for himself, he had a recollection of
ten years of poverty after leaving college; a recollection of sweat and indignities; he had
also a recollection of some poor people whom he had known.

Afterward, when the dinner was over, Adrian would go home and awake his wife, Cecil, who, with
the brutal honesty of an honest woman, also some of the ungenerosity, had early in her married
life flatly refused any share in the ceremonies described. Cecil would lie in her small white
bed, the white of her boudoir-cap losing itself in the white of the pillow, a little sleepy
and a little angrily perplexed at the perpetual jesuitical philosophy of the male. "If you
feel that way," she would ask, "why do you go there, then? Why don't you banish your uncle
utterly?" She asked this not without malice, her long, violet, Slavic eyes widely open, and
her red mouth, a trifle too large, perhaps, a trifle cruel, fascinatingly interrogative over
her white teeth. She loved Adrian and had at times, therefore, the right and desire to torture
him. She knew perfectly well why he went. He was his uncle's heir, and until such time as money
and other anachronisms of the present social system were done away with, there was no use throwing
a fortune into the gutter, even if by your own efforts you were making an income just sufficiently
large to keep up with the increased cost of living.

Sooner or later Adrian's mind reverted to Mrs. Denby. This was usually after he had been in
bed and had been thinking for a while in the darkness. He could not understand Mrs. Denby.
She affronted his modern habit of thought.

"The whole thing is so silly and adventitious!"

"What thing?"

Adrian was aware that his wife knew exactly of what he was talking, but he had come to expect
the question. "Mrs. Denby and my uncle." He would grow rather gently cross. "It has always
reminded me of those present-day sword-and-cloak romances fat business men used to write about
ten years ago and sell so enormously--there's an atmosphere of unnecessary intrigue. What's
it all about? Here's the point! Why, if she felt this way about things, didn't she divorce
that gentle drunkard of a husband of hers years ago and marry my uncle outright and honestly?
Or why, if she couldn't get a divorce--which she could--didn't she leave her husband and go
with my uncle? Anything in the open! Make a break--have some courage of her opinions! Smash
things; build them up again! Thank God nowadays, at least, we have come to believe in the cleanness
of surgery rather than the concealing palliatives of medicine. We're no longer--we modern people--afraid
of the world; and the world can never hurt for any length of time any one who will stand up
to it and tell it courageously to go to hell. No! It comes back and licks hands."

"I'll tell you why. My uncle and Mrs. Denby are the typical moral cowards of their generation.
There's selfishness, too. What a travesty of love! Of course there's scandal, a perpetual scandal;
but it's a hidden, sniggering scandal they don't have to meet face to face; and that's all
they ask of life, they, and people like them--never to have to meet anything face to face.
So long as they can bury their heads like ostriches! ... Faugh!" There would be a moment's
silence; then Adrian would complete his thought. "In my uncle's case," he would grumble in
the darkness, "one phase of the selfishness is obvious. He couldn't even get himself originally,
I suppose, to face the inevitable matter-of-fact moments of marriage. It began when he was
middle-aged, a bachelor--I suppose he wants the sort of Don Juan, eighteen-eighty, perpetual
sort of romance that doesn't exist outside the brains of himself and his like.... Camellias!"

Usually he tried to stir up argument with his wife, who in these matters agreed with him utterly;
even more than agreed with him, since she was the escaped daughter of rich and stodgy people,
and had insisted upon earning her own living by portrait-painting. Theoretically, therefore,
she was, of course, an anarchist. But at moments like the present her silent assent and the
aura of slight weariness over an ancient subject which emanated from her in the dusk, affronted
Adrian as much as positive opposition.

"Why don't you try to understand me?"

"I do, dearest!"--a pathetic attempt at eager agreement.

"Well, then, if you do, why is the tone of your voice like that? You know by now what I think.
I'm not talking convention; I believe there are no laws higher than the love of a man for a
woman. It should seek expression as a seed seeks sunlight. I'm talking about honesty; bravery;
a willingness to accept the consequences of one's acts and come through; about the intention
to sacrifice for love just what has to be sacrificed. What's the use of it otherwise? That's
one real advance the modern mind has made, anyhow, despite all the rest of the welter and uncertainty."

"Of course, dearest."

He would go on. After a while Cecil would awake guiltily and inject a fresh, almost gay interest
into her sleepy voice. She was not so unfettered as not to dread the wounded esteem of the
unlistened-to male. She would lean over and kiss Adrian.

"Do go to sleep, darling! What's the sense? Pretty soon your uncle will be dead--wretched old
man! Then you'll never have to think of him again." Being a childless woman, her red, a trifle
cruel mouth would twist itself in the darkness into a small, secretive, maternal smile.

But old Mr. Henry McCain didn't die; instead he seemed to be caught up in the condition of
static good health which frequently companions entire selfishness and a careful interest in
oneself. His butler died, which was very annoying. Mr. McCain seemed to consider it the breaking
of a promise made fifteen or so years before. It was endlessly a trouble instructing a new
man, and then, of course, there was Adlington's family to be looked after, and taxes had gone
up, and Mrs. Adlington was a stout woman who, despite the fact that Adlington, while alive,
had frequently interrupted Mr. McCain's breakfast newspaper reading by asserting that she was
a person of no character, now insisted upon weeping noisily every time Mr. McCain granted her
an interview. Also, and this was equally unexpected, since one rather thought he would go on
living forever, like one of the damper sort of fungi, Mr. Denby came home from the club one
rainy spring night with a slight cold and died, three days later, with extraordinary gentleness.

"My uncle," said Adrian, "is one by one losing his accessories. After a while it will be his
teeth."

Cecil was perplexed. "I don't know exactly what to do," she complained. "I don't know whether
to treat Mrs. Denby as a bereaved aunt, a non-existent family skeleton, or a released menace.
I dare say now, pretty soon, she and your uncle will be married. Meanwhile, I suppose it is
rather silly of me not to call and see if I can help her in any way. After all, we do know
her intimately, whether we want to or not, don't we? We meet her about all the time, even if
she wasn't motoring over to your uncle's place in the summer when we stop there."

So she went, being fundamentally kindly and fundamentally curious. She spoke of the expedition
as "a descent upon Fair Rosamund's tower."

The small, yellow-panelled drawing-room, where she awaited Mrs. Denby's coming, was lit by
a single silver vase-lamp under an orange shade and by a fire of thin logs, for the April evening
was damp with a hesitant rain. On the table, near the lamp, was a silver vase with three yellow
tulips in it, and Cecil, wandering about, came upon a double photograph frame, back of the
vase, that made her gasp. She picked it up and stared at it. Between the alligator edgings,
facing each other obliquely, but with the greatest amity, were Mr. Thomas Denby in the fashion
of ten years before, very handsome, very well-groomed, with the startled expression which any
definite withdrawal from his potational pursuits was likely to produce upon his countenance,
and her uncle-in-law, Mr. Henry McCain, also in the fashion of ten years back. She was holding
the photographs up to the light, her lips still apart, when she heard a sound behind her, and,
putting the frame back guiltily, turned about. Mrs. Denby was advancing toward her. She seemed
entirely unaware of Cecil's malfeasance; she was smiling faintly; her hand was cordial, grateful.

"You are very good," she murmured. "Sit here by the fire. We will have some tea directly."

Cecil could not but admit that she was very lovely; particularly lovely in the black of her
mourning, with her slim neck, rising up from its string of pearls, to a head small and like
a delicate white-and-gold flower. An extraordinarily well-bred woman, a sort of misty Du Maurier
woman, of a type that had become almost non-existent, if ever it had existed in its perfection
at all. And, curiously enough, a woman whose beauty seemed to have been sharpened by many fine-drawn
renunciations. Now she looked at her hands as if expecting Cecil to say something.

"I think such calls as this are always very useless, but then--"

"Exactly--but then! They mean more than anything else in the world, don't they? When one reaches
fifty-five one is not always used to kindness.... You are very kind...." She raised her eyes.

Cecil experienced a sudden impulsive warmth. "After all, what did she or any one else know
about other peoples' lives? Poor souls! What a base thing life often was!"

"I want you to understand that we are always so glad, both Adrian and myself.... Any time we
can help in any way, you know--"

"Yes, I think you would. You--I have watched you both. You don't mind, do you? I think you're
both rather great people--at least, my idea of greatness."

Cecil's eyes shone just a little; then she sat back and drew together her eager, rather childish
mouth. This wouldn't do! She had not come here to encourage sentimentalization. With a determined
effort she lifted her mind outside the circle of commiseration which threatened to surround
it. She deliberately reset the conversation to impersonal limits. She was sure that Mrs. Denby
was aware of her intention, adroitly concealed as it was. This made her uncomfortable, ashamed.
And yet she was irritated with herself. Why should she particularly care what this woman thought
in ways as subtle as this? Obvious kindness was her intention, not mental charity pursued into
tortuous by-paths. And, besides, her frank, boyish cynicism, its wariness, revolted, even while
she felt herself flattered at the prospect of the confidences that seemed to tremble on Mrs.
Denby's lips. It wouldn't do to "let herself in for anything"; to "give herself away." No!
She adopted a manner of cool, entirely reflective kindliness. But all along she was not sure
that she was thoroughly successful. There was a lingering impression that Mrs. Denby was penetrating
the surface to the unwilling interest beneath. Cecil suspected that this woman was trained
in discriminations and half-lights to which she and her generation had joyfully made themselves
blind. She felt uncomfortably young; a little bit smiled at in the most kindly of hidden ways.
Just as she was leaving, the subversive softness came close to her again, like a wave of too
much perfume as you open a church-door; as if some one were trying to embrace her against her will.

"You will understand," said Mrs. Denby, "that you have done the very nicest thing in the world.
I am horribly lonely. I have few women friends. Perhaps it is too much to ask--but if you could
call again sometime. Yes ... I would appreciate it so greatly."

She let go of Cecil's hand and walked to the door, and stood with one long arm raised against
the curtain, her face turned toward the hall.

"There is no use," she said, "in attempting to hide my husband's life, for every one knows
what it was, but then--yes, I think you will understand. I am a childless woman, you see; he
was infinitely pathetic."

Cecil felt that she must run away, instantly. "I do--" she said brusquely. "I understand more
than other women. Perfectly! Good-by!"

She found herself brushing past the latest trim parlour-maid, and out once more in the keen,
sweet, young dampness. She strode briskly down the deserted street. Her fine bronze eyebrows
were drawn down to where they met. "Good Lord! Damn!"--Cecil swore very prettily and modernly--"What
rotten taste! Not frankness, whatever it might seem outwardly; not frankness, but devious excuses!
Some more of Adrian's hated past-generation stuff! And yet--no! The woman was sincere--perfectly!
She had meant it--that about her husband. And she was lovely--and she was fine, too! It was
impossible to deny it. But--a childless woman! About that drunken tailor's model of a husband!
And then--Uncle Henry! ..." Cecil threw back her head; her eyes gleamed in the wet radiance
of a corner lamp; she laughed without making a sound, and entirely without amusement.

But it is not true that good health is static, no matter how carefully looked after. And, despite
the present revolt against the Greek spirit, Time persists in being bigotedly Greek. The tragedy--provided
one lives long enough--is always played out to its logical conclusion. For every hour you have
spent, no matter how quietly or beautifully or wisely, Nemesis takes toll in the end. You peter
out; the engine dulls; the shining coin wears thin. If it's only that it is all right; you
are fortunate if you don't become greasy, too, or blurred, or scarred. And Mr. McCain had not
spent all his hours wisely or beautifully, or even quietly, underneath the surface. He suddenly
developed what he called "acute indigestion."

"Odd!" he complained, "and exceedingly tiresome! I've been able to eat like an ostrich all
my life." Adrian smiled covertly at the simile, but his uncle was unaware that it was because
in Adrian's mind the simile applied to his uncle's conscience, not his stomach.

It was an odd disease, that "acute indigestion." It manifested itself by an abrupt tragic stare
in Mr. McCain's eyes, a whiteness of cheek, a clutching at the left side of the breast; it
resulted also in his beginning to walk very slowly indeed. One day Adrian met Carron, his uncle's
physician, as he was leaving a club after luncheon. Carron stopped him. "Look here, Adrian,"
he said, "is that new man of your uncle's--that valet, or whatever he is--a good man?"

Adrian smiled. "I didn't hire him," he answered, "and I couldn't discharge him if I wanted--in
fact, any suggestion of that kind on my part, would lead to his employment for life. Why?"

"Because," said Carron, "he impresses me as being rather young and flighty, and some day your
uncle is going to die suddenly. He may last five years; he may snuff out to-morrow. It's his
heart." His lips twisted pityingly. "He prefers to call it by some other name," he added, "and
he would never send for me again if he knew I had told you, but you ought to know. He's a game
old cock, isn't he?"

"Oh, very!" agreed Adrian. "Yes, game! Very, indeed!"

He walked slowly down the sunlit courtway on which the back door of the club opened, swinging
his stick and meditating. Spring was approaching its zenith. In the warm May afternoon pigeons
tumbled about near-by church spires which cut brown inlays into the soft blue sky. There was
a feeling of open windows; a sense of unseen tulips and hyacinths; of people playing pianos....
Too bad, an old man dying that way, his hand furtively seeking his heart, when all this spring
was about! Terror in possession of him, too! People like that hated to die; they couldn't see
anything ahead. Well, Adrian reflected, the real tragedy of it hadn't been his fault. He had
always been ready at the slightest signal to forget almost everything--yes, almost everything.
Even that time when, as a sweating newspaper reporter, he had, one dusk, watched in the park
his uncle and Mrs. Denby drive past in the cool seclusion of a shining victoria. Curious! In
itself the incident was small, but it had stuck in his memory more than others far more serious,
as concrete instances are likely to do.... No, he wasn't sorry; not a bit! He was glad, despite
the hesitation he experienced in saying to himself the final word. He had done his best, and
this would mean his own release and Cecil's. It would mean at last the blessed feeling that
he could actually afford a holiday, and a little unthinking laughter, and, at thirty-nine,
the dreams for which, at twenty-five, he had never had full time. He walked on down the courtway
more briskly.

That Saturday night was the night he dined with his uncle. It had turned very warm; unusually
warm for the time of year. When he had dressed and had sought out Cecil to say good-by to her
he found her by the big studio window on the top floor of the apartment where they lived. She
was sitting in the window-seat, her chin cupped in her hand, looking out over the city, in
the dark pool of which lights were beginning to open like yellow water-lilies. Her white arm
gleamed in the gathering dusk, and she was dressed in some diaphanous blue stuff that enhanced
the bronze of her hair. Adrian took his place silently beside her and leaned out. The air was
very soft and hot and embracing, and up here it was very quiet, as if one floated above the
lower clouds of perpetual sound.

Cecil spoke at last. "It's lovely, isn't it?" she said. "I should have come to find you, but
I couldn't. These first warm nights! You really understand why people live, after all, don't
you? It's like a pulse coming back to a hand you love." She was silent a moment. "Kiss me,"
she said, finally. "I--I'm so glad I love you, and we're young."

He stooped down and put his arms about her. He could feel her tremble. How fragrant she was,
and queer, and mysterious, even if he had lived with her now for almost fifteen years! He was
infinitely glad at the moment for his entire life. He kissed her again, kissed her eyes, and
she went down the stairs with him to the hall-door. She was to stop for him at his uncle's,
after a dinner to which she was going.

Adrian lit a cigarette and walked instead of taking the elevator. It was appropriate to his
mood that on the second floor some one with a golden Italian voice should be singing "Louise."
He paused for a moment. He was reminded of a night long ago in Verona, when there had been
an open window and moonlight in the street. Then he looked at his watch. He was late; he would
have to hurry. It amused him that at his age he should still fear the silent rebuke with which
his uncle punished unpunctuality.

He arrived at his destination as a near-by church clock struck the half-hour. The new butler
admitted him and led him back to where his uncle was sitting by an open window; the curtains
stirred in the languid breeze, the suave room was a little penetrated by the night, as if some
sly, disorderly spirit was investigating uninvited. It was far too hot for the wood fire--that
part of the formula had been omitted, but otherwise each detail was the same. "The two hundredth
time!" Adrian thought to himself. "The two hundredth time, at least! It will go on forever!"
And then the formula was altered again, for his uncle got to his feet, laying aside the evening
paper with his usual precise care. "My dear fellow," he began, "so good of you! On the minute,
too! I----" and then he stumbled and put out his hand. "My glasses!" he said.

Adrian caught him and held him upright. He swayed a little. "I----Lately I have had to use
them sometimes, even when not reading," he murmured. "Thank you! Thank you!"

Adrian went back to the chair where his uncle had been sitting. He found the glasses--gold
pince-nez--but they were broken neatly in the middle, lying on the floor, as if they had dropped
from someone's hand. He looked at them for a moment, puzzled, before he gave them back to his
uncle.

"Here they are, sir," he said. "But--it's very curious. They're broken in such an odd way."

His uncle peered down at them. He hesitated and cleared his throat. "Yes," he began; then he
stood up straight, with an unexpected twist of his shoulders. "I was turning them between my
fingers," he said, "just before you came in. I had no idea--no, no idea! Shall we go in? I
think dinner has been announced."

There was the sherry in the little, deeply cut glasses, and the clear soup, with a dash of
lemon in it, and the fish, and afterward the roast chicken, with vegetables discreetly limited
and designed not to detract from the main dish; and there was a pint of champagne for Adrian
and a mild white wine for his uncle. The latter twisted his mouth in a dry smile. "One finds
it difficult to get old," he said. "I have always been very fond of champagne. More aesthetically
I think than the actual taste. It seems to sum up so well the evening mood--dinner and laughter
and forgetting the day. But now----" he flicked contemptuously the stem of his glass--"I am
only allowed this uninspired stuff." He stopped suddenly and his face twisted into the slight
grimace which Adrian in the last few weeks had been permitted occasionally to see. His hand
began to wander vaguely over the white expanse of his shirt.

Adrian pushed back his chair. "Let me--!" he began, but his uncle waved a deprecating hand.
"Sit down!" he managed to say. "Please!" Adrian sank back again. The colour returned to his
uncle's cheeks and the staring question left his eyes. He took a sip of wine.

"I cannot tell you," he observed with elaborate indifference, "how humiliating this thing is
becoming to me. I have always had a theory that invalids and people when they begin to get
old and infirm, should be put away some place where they can undergo the unpleasant struggle
alone. It's purely selfish--there's something about the sanctity of the individual. Dogs have
it right--you know the way they creep off? But I suppose I won't. Pride fails when the body
weakens, doesn't it, no matter what the will may be?" He lifted his wine-glass. "I am afraid
I am giving you a very dull evening, my dear fellow," he apologized. "Forgive me! We will talk
of more pleasant things. I drink wine with you! How is Cecil? Doing well with her painting?"

Adrian attempted to relax his own inner grimness. He responded to his uncle's toast. But he
wished this old man, so very near the mysterious crisis of his affairs, would begin to forego
to some extent the habit of a lifetime, become a little more human. This ridiculous "façade"!
The dinner progressed.

Through an open window the night, full of soft, distant sound, made itself felt once more.
The candles, under their red shades, flickered at intervals. The noiseless butler came and
went. How old his uncle was getting to look, Adrian reflected. There was a grayness about his
cheeks; fine, wire-like lines about his mouth. And he was falling into that sure sign of age,
a vacant absent-mindedness. Half the time he was not listening to what he, Adrian, was saying;
instead, his eyes sought constantly the shadows over the carved sideboard across the table
from him. What did he see there? What question was he asking? Adrian wondered. Only once was
his uncle very much interested, and that was when Adrian had spoken of the war and the psychology
left in its train. Adrian himself had not long before been released from a weary round of training-camps,
where, in Texas dust, or the unpleasant resinous summer of the South, he had gone through a
repetition that in the end had threatened to render him an imbecile. He was not illusioned.
As separate personalities, men had lost much of their glamour for him; there had been too much
sweat, too much crowding, too much invasion of dignity, of everything for which the world claimed
it had been struggling and praying. But alongside of this revolt on his part had grown up an
immense pity and belief in humanity as a mass--struggling, worm-like, aspiring, idiotic, heroic.
The thought of it made him uncomfortable and at the same time elate.

His uncle shook a dissenting head. On this subject he permitted himself mild discussion, but
his voice was still that of an old, wearied man, annoyed and bewildered. "Oh, no!" he said.
"That's the very feature of it that seems to me most dreadful; the vermicular aspect; the massed
uprising; the massed death. About professional armies there was something decent--about professional
killing. It was cold-blooded and keen, anyway. But this modern war, and this modern craze for
self-revelation! Naked! Why, these books--the young men kept their fingers on the pulses of
their reactions. It isn't clean; it makes the individual cheap. War is a dreadful thing; it
should be as hidden as murder." He sat back, smiled. "We seem to have a persistent tendency
to become serious to-night," he remarked.

Serious! Adrian saw a vision of the drill-grounds, and smiled sardonically; then he raised
his head in surprise, for the new butler had broken all the rules of the household and was
summoning his uncle to the telephone in the midst of dessert. He awaited the expected rebuke,
but it did not come. Instead, his uncle paused in the middle of a sentence, stared, and looked
up. "Ah, yes!" he said, and arose from his chair. "Forgive me, Adrian, I will be back shortly."
He walked with a new, just noticeable, infirmness toward the door. Once there he seemed to
think an apology necessary, for he turned and spoke with absent-minded courtesy.

"You may not have heard," he said, "but Mrs. Denby is seriously ill. Her nurse gives me constant
bulletins over the telephone."

Adrian started to his feet, then sat down again. "But--" he stuttered--"but--is it as bad as
all that?"

"I am afraid," said his uncle gently, "it could not be worse." The curtain fell behind him.

Adrian picked up his fork and began to stir gently the melting ice on the plate before him,
but his eyes were fixed on the wall opposite, where, across the shining table, from a mellow
gold frame, a portrait of his grandfather smiled with a benignity, utterly belying his traditional
character, into the shadows above the candles. But Adrian was not thinking of his grandfather
just then, he was thinking of his uncle--and Mrs. Denby. What in the world----! Dangerously
ill, and yet here had been his uncle able to go through with--not entirely calmly, to be sure;
Adrian remembered the lack of attention, the broken eye-glasses; and yet, still able to go
through with, not obviously shaken, this monthly farce; this dinner that in reality mocked
all the real meaning of blood-relationship. Good Lord! To Adrian's modern mind, impatient and
courageous, the situation was preposterous, grotesque. He himself would have broken through
to the woman he loved, were she seriously ill, if all the city was cordoned to keep him back.
What could it mean? Entire selfishness on his uncle's part? Surely not that! That was too inhuman!
Adrian was willing to grant his uncle exceptional expertness in the art of self-protection,
but there was a limit even to self-protection. There must be some other reason. Discretion?
More likely, and yet how absurd! Had Mr. Denby been alive, a meticulous, a fantastic delicacy
might have intervened, but Mr. Denby was dead. Who were there to wound, or who left for the
telling of tales? A doctor and the servants. This was not altogether reasonable, despite what
he knew of his uncle. Here was some oddity of psychology he could not follow. He heard the
curtains stir as his uncle reentered. He looked up, attentive and curious, but his uncle's
face was the mask to which he was accustomed.

"How is Mrs. Denby?" he asked.

Mr. McCain hesitated for the fraction of a second. "I am afraid, very ill," he said. "Very
ill, indeed! It is pneumonia. I--the doctor thinks it is only a question of a little time,
but--well, I shall continue to hope for the best." There was a metallic harshness to his concluding
words. "Shall we go into the library?" he continued. "I think the coffee will be pleasanter there."

They talked again of the war; of revolution; of the dark forces at large in the world.

Through that hour or two Adrian had a nakedness of perception unusual even to his sensitive
mind. It seemed to him three spirits were abroad in the quiet, softly-lit, book-lined room;
three intentions that crept up to him like the waves of the sea, receded, crept back again;
or were they currents of air? or hesitant, unheard feet that advanced and withdrew? In at the
open windows poured at times the warm, enveloping scent of the spring; pervading, easily overlooked,
lawless, persistent, inevitable. Adrian found himself thinking it was like the presence of
a woman. And then, overlapping this, would come the careful, dry, sardonic tones of his uncle's
voice, as if insisting that the world was an ordinary world, and that nothing, not even love
or death, could lay disrespectful fingers upon or hurry for a moment the trained haughtiness
of the will. Yet even this compelling arrogance was at times overtaken, submerged, by a third
presence, stronger even than the other two; a presence that entered upon the heels of the night;
the ceaseless murmur of the streets; the purring of rubber tires upon asphalt; a girl's laugh,
high, careless, reckless. Life went on. Never for a moment did it stop.

"I am not sorry that I am getting old," said Mr. McCain. "I think nowadays is an excellent
time to die. Perhaps for the very young, the strong--but for me, things are too busy, too hurried.
I have always liked my life like potpourri. I liked to keep it in a china jar and occasionally
take off the lid. Otherwise one's sense of perfume becomes satiated. Take your young girls;
they remain faithful to a love that is not worth being faithful to--all noise, and flushed
laughter, and open doors." Quite unexpectedly he began to talk in a way he had never talked
before. He held his cigar in his hand until the ash turned cold; his ringers trembled just
a little.

"You have been very good to me," he said. Adrian raised startled eyes. "Very good. I am quite
aware that you dislike me"--he hesitated and the ghost of a smile hovered about his lips--"and
I have always disliked you. Please!" He raised a silencing hand. "You don't mind my saying
so? No. Very well, then, there is something I want to tell you. Afterward I will never mention
it again. I dare say our mutual dislike is due to the inevitable misunderstanding that exists
between the generations. But it is not important. The point is that we have always been well-bred
toward each other. Yes, that is the point. You have always been a gentleman, very considerate,
very courteous, I cannot but admire you. And I think you will find I have done the best I could.
I am not a rich man, as such things go nowadays, but I will hand you on the money that will
be yours quite unimpaired, possibly added to. I feel very strongly on that subject. I am old-fashioned
enough to consider the family the most important thing in life. After all, we are the only
two McCains left." He hesitated again, and twisted for a moment his bloodless hands in his
lap, then he raised his eyes and spoke with a curious hurried embarrassment. "I have sacrificed
a great deal for that," he said. "Yes, a great deal."

The soft-footed butler stood at his elbow, like an actor in comedy suddenly cast for the role
of a portentous messenger.

"Miss Niles is calling you again, sir," he said.

"On, yes!--ah--Adrian, I am very sorry, my dear fellow. I will finish the conversation when
I come back."

This time the telephone was within earshot; in the hall outside. Adrian heard his uncle's slow
steps end in the creaking of a chair as he sat down; then the picking up of the receiver. The
message was a long one, for his uncle did not speak for fully a minute; finally his voice drifted
in through the curtained doorway.

"You think ... only a few minutes?"

"... Ah, yes! Conscious? Yes. Well, will you tell her, Miss Niles?--yes, please listen very
carefully--tell her this. That I am not there because I dared not come. Yes; on her account.
She will understand. My heart--it's my heart. She will understand. I did not dare. For her
sake, not mine. Tell her that. She will understand. Please be very careful in repeating the
message, Miss Niles. Tell her I dared not come because of my heart.... Yes; thank you. That's
it.... What? Yes, I will wait, Miss Niles."

Adrian, sitting in the library, suddenly got to his feet and crossed to the empty fireplace
and stood with his back to it, enlightenment and a puzzled frown struggling for possession
of his face. His uncle's heart! Ah, he understood, then! It was discretion, after all, but
not the kind he thought--a much more forgiveable discretion. And, yet, what possible difference
could it make should his uncle die suddenly in Mrs. Denby's house? Fall dead across her bed,
or die kneeling beside it? Poor, twisted old fool, afraid even at the end that death might
catch him out; afraid of a final undignified gesture.

A motor blew its horn for the street crossing. Another girl laughed; a young, thin, excited
girl, to judge by her laughter. The curtains stirred and again there was that underlying scent
of tulips and hyacinths; and then, from the hall outside, came the muffled thud of a receiver
falling to the floor. Adrian waited. The receiver was not picked up. He strode to the door.
Crumpled up over the telephone was old Mr. McCain.

Cecil came later. She was very quick and helpful, and jealously solicitous on Adrian's account,
but in the taxicab going home she said the one thing Adrian had hoped she wouldn't say, and
yet was sure she would. She belonged to a sex which, if it is honest at all, is never reticently
so. She believed that between the man she loved and herself there were no possible mental withdrawals.
"It is very tragic," she said, "but much better--you know it is better. He belonged to the
cumberers of the earth. Yes, so much better; and this way, too!"

In the darkness her hand sought his. Adrian took it, but in his heart was the same choked feeling,
the same knowledge that something was gone that could not be found again, that, as a little
boy, he had had when they sold, at his father's death, the country place where he had spent
his summers. Often he had lain awake at night, restless with the memory of heliotrope, and
phlox, and mignonette, and afternoons quiet except for the sound of bees.

"CONTACT!"

BY FRANCES NOYES HART[8]

[Footnote 8: Frances Newbold Noyes, in Pictorial Review for December, 1920.]

The first time she heard it was in the silk-hung and flower-scented peace of the little drawing-room
in Curzon Street. His sister Rosemary had wanted to come up to London to get some clothes--Victory
clothes they called them in those first joyous months after the armistice, and decked their
bodies in scarlet and silver, even when their poor hearts went in black--and Janet had been
urged to leave her own drab boarding-house room to stay with the forlorn small butterfly. They
had struggled through dinner somehow, and Janet had finished her coffee and turned the great
chair so that she could watch the dancing fire (it was cool for May), her cloudy brown head
tilted back against the rose-red cushion, shadowy eyes half closed, idle hands linked across
her knees. She looked every one of her thirty years--and mortally tired--and careless of both
facts. But she managed an encouraging smile at the sound of Rosemary's shy, friendly voice
at her elbow. "Janet, these are yours, aren't they? Mummy found them with some things last
week, and I thought that you might like to have them."

She drew a quick breath at the sight of the shabby packet.

"Why, yes," she said evenly. "That's good of you, Rosemary. Thanks a lot."

"That's all right," murmured Rosemary diffidently. "Wouldn't you like something to read? There's
a most frightfully exciting Western novel----"

The smile took on a slightly ironical edge. "Don't bother about me, my dear. You see, I come
from that frightfully exciting West, and I know all about the pet rattlesnakes and the wildly
Bohemian cowboys. Run along and play with your book--I'll be off to bed in a few minutes."

Rosemary retired obediently to the deep chair in the corner, and with the smile gone but the
irony still hovering, she slipped the cord off the packet. A meager and sorry enough array--words
had never been for her the swift, docile servitors that most people found them. But the thin
gray sheet in her fingers started out gallantly enough--"Beloved." Beloved! She leaned far
forward, dropping it with deft precision into the glowing pocket of embers. What next? This
was more like--it began "Dear Captain Langdon" in the small, contained, even writing that was
her pride, and it went on soberly enough, "I shall be glad to have tea with you next Friday--not
Thursday, because I must be at the hut then. It was stupid of me to have forgotten you--next
time I will try to do better." Well, she had done better the next time. She had not forgotten
him again--never, never again. That had been her first letter; how absurd of Jerry, the magnificently
careless, to have treasured it all that time, the miserable, stilted little thing! She touched
it with curious fingers. Surely, surely he must have cared, to have cared so much for that!

It seemed incredible that she hadn't remembered him at once when he came into the hut that
second time. Of course she had only seen him for a moment and six months had passed--but he
was so absurdly vivid, every inch of him, from the top of his shining, dark head to the heels
of his shining, dark boots--and there were a great many inches! How could she have forgotten,
even for a minute, those eyes dancing like blue fire in the brown young face, the swift, disarming
charm of his smile, and, above all, his voice--how, in the name of absurdity could any one
who had once heard it ever forget Jeremy Langdon's voice? Even now she had only to close her
eyes, and it rang out again, with its clipped, British accent and its caressing magic, as un-English
as any Provincial troubadour's! And yet she had forgotten--he had had to speak twice before
she had even lifted her head.

"Miss America--oh, I say, she's forgotten me, and I thought that I'd made such an everlasting
impression!" The delighted amazement reached even her tired ears, and she had smiled wanly
as she pushed the pile of coppers nearer to him.

"Have you been in before? It's stupid of me, but there are such hundreds of thousands of you,
and you are gone in a minute, you see. That's your change, I think."

"Hundreds of thousands of me, hey?" He had leaned across the counter, his face alight with
mirth. "I wish to the Lord my angel mother could hear you--it's what I'm forever tellin' her,
though just between us, it's stuff and nonsense. I've got a well-founded suspicion that I'm
absolutely unique. You wait and see!"

And she had waited--and she had seen! She stirred a little, dropped the note into the flames,
and turned to the next, the quiet, mocking mouth suddenly tortured and rebellious.

"No, you must be mad," it ran, the trim writing strangely shaken. "How often have you seen
me--five times? Do you know how old I am. How hard and tired and useless? No--no a thousand
times. In a little while we will wake up and find that we were dreaming."

That had brought him to her swifter than Fate, triumphant mischief in every line of his exultant
face. "Just let those damned old cups slip from your palsied fingers, will you? I'm goin' to
take your honourable age for a little country air--it may keep you out of the grave for a few
days longer. Never can tell! No use your scowlin' like that--the car's outside, and the big
chief says to be off with you. Says you have no more colour than a banshee, and not half the
life--can't grasp the fact that it's just chronic antiquity. Fasten the collar about your throat--no,
higher! Darlin', darlin', think of havin' a whole rippin' day to ourselves. You're glad, too,
aren't you, my little stubborn saint?"

Oh, that joyous and heart-breaking voice, running on and on--it made all the other voices that
she had ever heard seem colourless and unreal--

"Darlin' idiot, what do I care how old you are? Thirty, hey? Almost old enough to be an ancestor!
Look at me--no, look at me! Dare you to say that you aren't mad about me!"

Mad about him--mad, mad! She lifted her hands to her ears, but she could no more shut out the
exultant voice now than she could on that windy afternoon.

"Other fellow got tired of you, did he? Good luck for us, what? You're a fearfully tiresome
person, darlin'. It's goin' to take me nine-tenths of eternity to tell you how tiresome you
are. Give a chap a chance, won't you? The tiresomest thing about you is the way you leash up
that dimple of yours. No, by George, there it is! Janie, look at me----"

She touched the place where the leashed dimple had hidden with a delicate and wondering finger--of
all Jerry's gifts to her the most miraculous had been that small fugitive. Exiled now, forever
and forever.

"Are you comin' down to White Orchards next week-end? I'm off for France on the twelfth and
you've simply got to meet my people. You'll be insane about 'em--Rosemary's the most beguilin'
flibbertigibbet, and I can't wait to see you bein' a kind of an elderly grandmother to her.
What a bewitchin' little grandmother you're goin' to be one of these days----"

Oh, Jerry! Oh, Jerry, Jerry! She twisted in her chair, her face suddenly a small mask of incredulous
terror. No, no, it wasn't true, it wasn't true--never--never--never! And then, for the first
time, she heard it. Far off but clear, a fine and vibrant humming, the distant music of wings!
The faint, steady pulsing was drawing nearer and nearer--nearer still--it must be flying quite
high. The hateful letters scattered about her as she sprang to the open window--no, it was
too high to see, and too dark, though the sky was powdered with stars--but she could hear it
clearly, hovering and throbbing like some gigantic bird. It must be almost directly over her
head, if she could only see it.

"It sounds--it sounds the way a humming-bird would look through a telescope," she said half
aloud, and Rosemary murmured sleepily but courteously, "What, Janet?"

"Just an airplane--no, gone now. It sounded like a bird. Didn't you hear it?"

"No," replied Rosemary drowsily. "We get so used to the old things that we don't even notice
them any more. Queer time to be flying!"

"It sounded rather--beautiful," said Janet, her face still turned to the stars. "Far off, but
so clear and sure. I wonder--I wonder whether it will be coming back?"

Well, it came back. She went down to White Orchards with Rosemary for the following week-end,
and after she had smoothed her hair and given a scornful glance at the pale face in the mirror,
with its shadowy eyes and defiant mouth, she slipped out to the lower terrace for a breath
of the soft country air. Halfway down the flight of steps she stumbled and caught at the balustrade,
and stood shaking for a moment, her face pressed against its rough surface. Once before--once
before she had stumbled on those steps, but it was not the balustrade that had saved her. She
could feel his arms about her now, holding her up, holding her close and safe. The magical
voice was in her ears. "Let you go? I'll never let you go! Poor little feet, stumblin' in the
dark, what would you do without Jerry? Time's comin', you cheeky little devils, when you'll
come runnin' to him when he whistles! No use tryin' to get away--you belong to him."

Oh, whistle to them now, Jerry--they would run to you across the stars!

"How'd you like to marry me before I go back to-morrow? No? No accountin' for tastes, Miss
Abbott--lots of people would simply jump at it! All right--April, then. Birds and flowers and
all that kind o' thing--pretty intoxicatin', what? No, keep still, darlin' goose. What feller
taught you to wear a dress that looks like roses and smells like roses and feels like roses?
This feller? Lord help us, what a lovely liar!"

And suddenly she found herself weeping helplessly, desperately, like an exhausted child, shaken
to the heart at the memory of the rose-coloured dress.

"You like me just a bit, don't you, funny, quiet little thing? But you'd never lift a finger
to hold me--that's the wonder of you--that's why I'll never leave you. No, not for heaven.
You can't lose me--no use tryin'."

But she had lost you, Jerry--you had left her, for all your promises, to terrified weeping
in the hushed loveliness of the terrace, where your voice had turned her still heart to a dancing
star, where your fingers had touched her quiet blood to flowers and flames and butterflies.
She had believed you then--what would she ever believe again? And then she caught back the
despairing sobs swiftly, for once more she heard, far off, the rushing of wings. Nearer--nearer--humming
and singing and hovering in the quiet dusk. Why, it was over the garden! She flung back her
head, suddenly eager to see it; it was a friendly and thrilling sound in all that stillness.
Oh, it was coming lower--lower still--she could hear the throb of the propellers clearly. Where
was it? Behind those trees, perhaps? She raced up the flight of steps, dashing the treacherous
tears from her eyes, straining up on impatient tiptoes. Surely she could see it now! But already
it was growing fainter--drifting steadily away, the distant hum growing lighter and lighter--lighter
still----

"Janet!" called Mrs. Langdon's pretty, patient voice. "Dinner-time, dear! Is there any one
with you?"

"No one at all, Mrs. Langdon. I was just listening to an airplane."

"An airplane? Oh, no, dear--they never pass this way any more. The last one was in October,
I think----"

The soft, plaintive voice trailed off in the direction of the dining-room and Janet followed
it, a small, secure smile touching her lips. The last one had not passed in October. It had
passed a few minutes before, over the lower garden.

She quite forgot it by the next week--she was becoming an adept at forgetting. That was all
that was left for her to do! Day after day and night after night she had raised the drawbridge
between her heart and memory, leaving the lonely thoughts to shiver desolately on the other
side of the moat. She was weary to the bone of suffering, and they were enemies, for all their
dear and friendly guise; they would tear her to pieces if she ever let them in. No, no, she
was done with them. She would forget, as Jerry had forgotten. She would destroy every link
between herself and the past--and pack the neat little steamer trunk neatly--and bid these
kind and gentle people good-by--and take herself and her bitterness and her dullness back to
the class-room in the Western university town--back to the Romance languages. The Romance languages!

She would finish it all that night, and leave as soon as possible. There were some trinkets
to destroy, and his letters from France to burn--she would give Rosemary the rose-coloured
dress--foolish, lovely little Rosemary, whom he had loved, and who was lying now fast asleep
in the next room curled up like a kitten in the middle of the great bed, her honey-coloured
hair falling about her in a shining mist. She swept back her own cloud of hair resolutely,
frowning at the candle-lit reflection in the mirror. Two desolate pools in the small, pale
oval of her face stared back at her--two pools with something drowned in their lonely depths.
Well, she would drown it deeper!

The letters first; how lucky that they still used candle-light! It would make the task much
simpler--the funeral pyre already lighted. She moved one of the tall candelabra to the desk,
sitting for a long time quite still, her chin cupped in her hands, staring down at the bits
of paper. She could smell the wall-flowers under the window as though they were in the room--drenched
in dew and moonlight, they were reckless of their fragrance. All this peace and cleanliness
and orderly beauty--what a ghastly trick for God to have played--to have taught her to adore
them, and then to snatch them away! All about her, warm with candle-light, lay the gracious
loveliness of the little room with its dark waxed furniture, its bright glazed chintz, its
narrow bed with the cool linen sheets smelling of lavender, and its straight, patterned curtains--oh,
that hateful, mustard-coloured den at home, with its golden-oak day-bed!

She wrung her hands suddenly in a little hunted gesture. How could he have left her to that,
he who had sworn that he would never leave her? In every one of those letters beneath her linked
fingers he had sworn it--in every one perjured--false half a hundred times. Pick up any one
of them at random--

"Janie, you darling stick, is 'dear Jerry' the best that you can do? You ought to learn French!
I took a perfectly ripping French kid out to dinner last night--name's Liane, from the Varietés--and
she was calling me 'mon grand cheri' before the salad, and 'mon p'tit amour' before the green
mint. Maybe that'll buck you up! And I'd have you know that she's so pretty that it's ridiculous,
with black velvet hair that she wears like a little Oriental turban, and eyes like golden pansies,
and a mouth between a kiss and a prayer--and a nice affable nature into the bargain. But I'm
a ghastly jackass--I didn't get any fun out of it at all--because I really didn't even see
her. Under the pink shaded candles to my blind eyes it seemed that there was seated the coolest,
quietest, whitest little thing, with eyes that were as indifferent as my velvety Liane's were
kind, and mockery in her smile. Oh, little masquerader! If I could get my arms about you even
for a minute--if I could kiss so much as the tips of your lashes--would you be cool and quiet
and mocking then? Janie, Janie, rosy-red as flowers on the terrace and sweeter--sweeter--they're
about you now--they'll be about you always!"

Burn it fast, candle--faster, faster. Here's another for you.

"So the other fellow cured you of using pretty names, did he--you don't care much for dear
and darling any more? Bit hard on me, but fortunately for you, Janie Janet, I'm rather a dab
at languages--'specially when it comes to what the late lamented Boche referred to as 'cosy
names.' Querida mi alma, douchka, Herzliebchen, carissima; and bien, bien-aimée, I'll not run
out of salutations for you this side of heaven--no--nor t'other. I adore the serene grace with
which you ignore the ravishing Liane. Haven't you any curiosity at all, my Sphinx? No? Well,
then, just to punish you, I'll tell you all about it. She's married to the best fellow in the
world--a liaison officer working with our squadron--and she worships the ground that he walks
on and the air that he occasionally flies in. So whenever I run up to the City of Light, en
permission, I look her up, and take her the latest news--and for an hour, over the candles,
we pretend that I am Philippe, and that she is Janie. Only she says that I don't pretend very
well--and it's just possible that she's right.

"Mon petit coeur et grand trésor, I wish that I could take you flying with me this evening.
You'd be daft about it! Lots of it's a rotten bore, of course, but there's something in me
that doesn't live at all when I'm on this too, too solid earth. Something that lies there,
crouched and dormant, waiting until I've climbed up into the seat, and buckled the strap about
me and laid my hands on the 'stick.' It's waiting--waiting for a word--and so am I. And I lean
far forward, watching the figure toiling out beyond till the call comes back to me, clear and
confident, 'Contact, sir?' And I shout back, as restless and exultant as the first time that
I answered it--'Contact!'

"And I'm off--and I'm alive--and I'm free! Ho, Janie! That's simpler than Abracadabra or Open
Sesame, isn't it? But it opens doors more magical than ever they swung wide, and something
in me bounds through, more swift and eager than any Aladdin. Free! I'm a crazy sort of a beggar,
my little love--that same thing in me hungers and thirsts and aches for freedom. I go half
mad when people or events try to hold me--you, wise beyond wisdom, never will. Somehow, between
us, we've struck the spark that turns a mere piece of machinery into a wonder with wings--somehow,
you are forever setting me free. It is your voice--your voice of silver and peace--that's eternally
whispering 'Contact!' to me--and I am released, heart, soul, and body! And because you speed
me on my way, Janie, I'll never fly so far, I'll never fly so long, I'll never fly so high
that I'll not return to you. You hold me fast, forever and forever."

You had flown high and far indeed, Jerry--and you had not returned. Forever and forever! Burn
faster, flame!

"My blessed child, who's been frightening you? Airplanes are by all odds safer than taxis--and
no end safer than the infernal duffer who's been chaffing you would be if I could once get
my hands on him. Damn fool! Don't care if you do hate swearing--damn fools are damn fools,
and there's an end to it. All those statistics are sheer melodramatic rot--the chap who fired
'em at you probably has all his money invested in submarines, and is fairly delirious with
jealousy. Peg (did I ever formally introduce you to Pegasus, the best pursuit-plane in the
R.F.C.--or out of it?)--Peg's about as likely to let me down as you are! We'd do a good deal
for each other, she and I--nobody else can really fly her, the darling! But she'd go to the
stars for me--and farther still. Never you fear--we have charmed lives, Peg and I--we belong
to Janie.

"I think that people make an idiotic row about dying, anyway. It's probably jolly good fun--and
I can't see what difference a few years here would make if you're going to have all eternity
to play with. Of course you're a ghastly little heathen, and I can see you wagging a mournful
head over this already--but every time that I remember what a shocking sell the After Life
(exquisite phrase!) is going to be for you, darling, I do a bit of head-wagging myself--and
it's not precisely mournful! I can't wait to see your blank consternation--and you needn't
expect any sympathy from me. My very first words will be, 'I told you so!' Maybe I'll rap them
out to you with a table-leg!

"What do you think of all this Ouija Planchette rumpus, anyway? I can't for the life of me
see why any one with a whole new world to explore should hang around chattering with this one.
I know that I'd be half mad with excitement to get at the new job, and that I'd find re-assuring
the loved ones (exquisite phrase number two) a hideous bore. Still, I can see that it would
be nice from their selfish point of view! Well, I'm no ghost yet, thank God--nor yet are you--but
if ever I am one, I'll show you what devotion really is. I'll come all the way back from heaven
to play with foolish Janie, who doesn't believe that there is one to come from. To foolish,
foolish Janie, who still will be dearer than the prettiest angel of them all, no matter how
alluringly her halo may be tilted or her wings ruffled. To Janie who, Heaven forgive him, will
be all that one poor ghost has ever loved!"

Had there come to him, the radiant and the confident, a moment of terrible and shattering surprise--a
moment when he realized that there were no pretty angels with shining wings waiting to greet
him--a moment when he saw before him only the overwhelming darkness, blacker and deeper than
the night would be, when she blew out the little hungry flame that was eating up the sheet
that held his laughter? Oh, gladly would she have died a thousand deaths to have spared him
that moment!

"My little Greatheart, did you think that I did not know how brave you are? You are the truest
soldier of us all, and I, who am not much given to worship, am on my knees before that shy
gallantry of yours, which makes what courage we poor duffers have seem a vain and boastful
thing. When I see you as I saw you last, small and white and clear and brave, I can't think
of anything but the first crocuses at White Orchards, shining out, demure and valiant, fearless
of wind and storm and cold--fearless of Fear itself. You see, you're so very, very brave that
you make me ashamed to be afraid of poetry and sentiment and pretty words--things of which
I have a good, thumping Anglo-Saxon terror, I can tell you! It's because I know what a heavenly
brick you are that I could have killed that statistical jackass for bothering you; but I'll
forgive him, since you say that it's all right. And so ghosts are the only things in the world
that frighten you--even though you know that there aren't any. You and Madame de Staël, hey?
'I do not believe in ghosts, but I fear them!' It's pretty painful to learn that the mere sight
of one would turn you into a gibbering lunatic. Nice sell for an enthusiastic spirit who'd
romped clear back from heaven to give you a pleasant surprise--I don't think! Well, no fear,
young Janie--I'll find some way if I'm put to it--some nice, safe, pretty way that wouldn't
scare a neurasthenic baby, let alone the dauntless Miss Abbott. I'll find--"

Oh, no more of that--no more! She crushed the sheet in her hands fiercely, crumpling it into
a little ball--the candle-flame was too slow. No, she couldn't stand it--she couldn't--she
couldn't, and there was an end to it. She would go raving mad--she would kill herself--she
would--She lifted her head, wrenched suddenly back from that chaos of despair, alert and intent.
There it was again, coming swiftly nearer and nearer from some immeasurable distance--down--down--nearer
still--the very room was humming and throbbing with it--she could almost hear the singing in
the wires. She swung far out over the window edge, searching the moon-drenched garden with
eager eyes--surely, surely it would never fly so low unless it were about to land! Engine trouble,
perhaps--though she could detect no break in the huge, rhythmic pulsing that was shaking the
night. Still--

"Rosemary!" she called urgently. "Rosemary--listen--is there a place where it can land?"

"Where what can land?" asked a drowsy voice.

"An airplane. It's flying so low that it must be in some kind of trouble--do come and see!"

Rosemary came pattering obediently toward her, a small, docile figure, dark eyes misted with
dreams, wide with amazement.

"I must be nine-tenths asleep," she murmured gently. "Because I don't hear a single thing,
Janet. Perhaps--"

"Hush--listen!" begged Janet, raising an imperative hand--and then her own eyes widened. "Why--it's
gone!" There was a note of flat incredulity in her voice. "Heavens, how those things must eat
up space! Not a minute, ago it was fairly shaking this room, and now--"

Rosemary stifled a small pink yawn and smiled ingratiatingly.

"Perhaps you were asleep too," she suggested humbly. "I don't believe that airplanes ever fly
this way any more. Or it might have been that fat Hodges boy on his motorcycle--he does make
the most dreadful racket. Oh, Janet, what a perfectly ripping night--do see!"

They leaned together on the window-sill, silenced by the white and shining beauty that had
turned the pleasant garden into a place of magic and enchantment. The corners of Janet's mouth
lifted suddenly. How absurd people were! The fat Hodges boy and his motorcycle! Did they all
regard her as an amiable lunatic--even little, lovely, friendly Rosemary, wavering sleepily
at her side? It really was maddening. But she felt, amazingly enough, suddenly quiet and joyous
and indifferent--and passionately glad that the wanderer from the skies had won safely through
and was speeding home. Home! Oh, it was a crying pity that it need ever land--anything so fleet
and strong and sure should fly forever! But if they must rest, those beating wings--the old
R.F.C. toast went singing through her head and she flung it out into the moonlight, smiling--"Happy
landings! Happy landings, you!"

The next day was the one that brought to White Orchards what was to be known for many moons
as "the Big Storm." It had been gathering all afternoon, and by evening the heat had grown
appalling and incredible, even to Janet's American and exigent standards. The smouldering copper
sky looked as though it had caught fire from the world and would burn forever; there was not
so much as a whisper of air to break the stillness--it seemed as though the whole tortured
earth were holding its breath, waiting to see what would happen next. Every one had struggled
through the day assuring one another that when evening came it would be all right--dangling
the alluring thought of the cool darkness before each other's hot and weary eyes; but the night
proved even more outrageous than the day. To the little group seated on the terrace, dispiritedly
playing with their coffee, it seemed almost a personal affront. The darkness closed in on them,
smothering, heavy, intolerable; they could feel its weight, as though it were some hateful
and tangible thing.

"Like--like black cotton wool," explained Rosemary, stirred to unwonted resentment. She had
spent the day curled up in the largest Indian chair on the terrace, round-eyed with fatigue
and incredulity.

"I honestly think that we must be dreaming," she murmured to her feverish audience; "I do,
honestly. Why, it's only May, and we never, never--there was that day in August about five
years ago that was almost as bad, though. D'you remember, Mummy?"

"It's hardly the kind of thing that one is likely to forget, love. Do you think that it is
necessary for us to talk? I feel somehow that I could bear it much more easily if we kept quite
quiet."

Janet stirred a little, uneasily. She hated silence--that terrible, empty space waiting to
be filled up with your thoughts--why, the idlest chatter spared you that. She hated the terrace,
too--she closed her eyes to shut out the ugly darkness that was pressing against her; behind
the shelter of her lids it was cooler and stiller, but open-eyed or closed, she could not shut
out memory. The very touch of the bricks beneath her feet brought back that late October day.
She had been sitting curled up on the steps in the warm sunlight, with the keen, sweet air
stirring her hair and sending the beech-leaves dancing down the flagged path--there had been
a heavenly smell of burning from the far meadow, and she was sniffing it luxuriously, feeling
warm and joyous and protected in Jerry's great tweed coat--watching the tall figure swinging
across from the lodge gate with idle, happy eyes--not even curious. It was not until he had
almost reached the steps that she had noticed that he was wearing a foreign uniform--and even
then she had promptly placed him as one of Rosemary's innumerable conquests, bestowing on him
a friendly and inquiring smile.

"Were you looking for Miss Langdon?" Even now she could see the courteous, grave young face
soften as he turned quickly toward her, baring his dark head with that swift foreign grace
that turns our perfunctory habits into something like a ritual.

"But no," he had said gently, "I was looking for you, Miss Abbott."

"Now will you please tell me how in the world you knew that I was Miss Abbott?"

And he had smiled--with his lips, not his eyes.

"I should be dull indeed if that I did not know. I am Philippe Laurent, Miss Abbott."

And "Oh," she had cried joyously, "Liane's Philippe!"

"But yes--Liane's Philippe. They are not here, the others? Madame Langdon, the little Miss
Rosemary?"

"No, they've gone to some parish fair, and I've been wicked and stayed home. Won't you sit
down and talk to me? Please!"

"Miss Abbott, it is not to you that I must talk. What I have to say is indeed most difficult,
and it is to Jeremy's Janie that I would say it. May I, then?"

It had seemed to Jeremy's Janie that the voice in which she answered him came from a great
distance, but she never took her eyes from the grave and vivid face.

"Yes. And quickly, please."

So he had told her--quickly--in his exquisitely careful English, and she had listened as attentively
and politely, huddled up on the brick steps in the sunlight, as though he were running over
the details of the last drive, instead of tearing her life to pieces with every word. She remembered
now that it hadn't seemed real at all--if it had been to Jerry that these horrors had happened
could she have sat there so quietly, feeling the colour bright in her cheeks, and the wind
stirring in her hair, and the sunlight warm on her hands? Why, for less than this people screamed,
and fainted, and went raving mad!

"You say--that his back is broken?"

"But yes, my dear," Liane's Philippe had told her, and she had seen the tears shining in his
gray eyes.

"And he is badly burned?"

"My brave Janie, these questions are not good to ask--not good, not good to answer. This I
will tell you. He lives, our Jerry--and so dearly does he love you that he will drag back that
poor body from hell itself--because it is yours, not his. This he has sent me to tell you,
most lucky lady ever loved."

"You mean--that he isn't going to die?"

"I tell you that into those small hands of yours he has given his life. Hold it fast."

"Will he--will he get well?" "He will not walk again; but have you not swift feet to run for him?"

And there had come to her, sitting on the terrace in the sunshine, an overwhelming flood of
joy, reckless and cruel and triumphant. Now he was hers forever, the restless wanderer--delivered
to her bound and helpless, never to stray again. Hers to worship and serve and slave for, his
troth to Freedom broken--hers at last!

"I'm coming," she had told the tall young Frenchman breathlessly. "Take me to him--please let's
hurry."

"Ma pauvre petite, this is war. One does not come and go at will. God knows by what miracle
enough red tape unwound to let me through to you, to bring my message and to take one back."

"What message, Philippe?"

"That is for you to say, little Janie. He told me, 'Say to her that she has my heart--if she
needs my body, I will live. Say to her that it is an ugly, broken, and useless thing; still,
hers. She must use it as she sees fit. Say to her--no, say nothing more. She is my Janie, and
has no need of words. Tell her to send me only one, and I will be content.' For that one word,
Janie, I have come many miles. What shall it be?"

And she had cried out exultantly, "Why, tell him that I say--" But the word had died in her
throat. Her treacherous lips had mutinied, and she had sat there, feeling the blood drain back
out of her face--out of her heart--feeling her eyes turn back with sheer terror, while she
fought with those stiffened rebels. Such a little word "Live!"--surely they could say that.
Was it not what he was waiting for, lying far away and still--schooled at last to patience,
the reckless and the restless! Oh, Jerry, Jerry, live! Even now she could feel her mind, like
some frantic little wild thing, racing, racing to escape Memory. What had he said to her? "You,
wise beyond wisdom, will never hold me--you will never hold me--you will never--"

And suddenly she had dropped her twisted hands in her lap and lifted her eyes to Jerry's ambassador.

"Will you please tell him--will you please tell him that I say--'Contact'?"

"Contact?" He had stood smiling down at her, ironical and tender. "Ah, what a race! That is
the prettiest word that you can find for Jerry? But then it means to come very close, to touch,
that poor harsh word--there he must find what comfort he can. We, too, in aviation use that
word--it is the signal that says--'Now, you can fly!' You do not know our vocabulary, perhaps?"

"I know very little."

"That is all then? No other message? He will understand, our Jerry?"

And Janie had smiled--rather a terrible small smile.

"Oh, yes," she told him. "He will understand. It is the word that he is waiting for, you see."

"I see." But there had been a grave wonder in his voice.

"Would it----" she had framed the words as carefully as though it were a strange tongue that
she was speaking--"would it be possible to buy his machine? He wouldn't want any one else to
fly it."

"Little Janie, never fear. The man does not live who shall fly poor Peg again. Smashed to kindling-wood
and burned to ashes, she has taken her last flight to the heaven for good and brave birds of
war. Not enough was left of her to hold in your two hands."

"I'm glad. Then that's all--isn't it? And thank you for coming."

"It is I who thank you. What was hard as death you have made easy. I had thought the lady to
whom Jeremy Langdon gave his heart the luckiest creature ever born--now I think him that luckiest
one." The grave grace with which he had bent to kiss her hand made of the formal salutation
an accolade--"My homage to you, Jerry's Janie!" A quick salute, and he had turned on his heel,
swinging off down the flagged path with that swift, easy stride--past the sun-dial--past the
lily-pond--past the beech-trees--gone! For hours and hours after he had passed out of sight
she had sat staring after him, her hands lying quite still in her lap--staring, staring--they
had found her there when they came back, sitting where Rosemary was seated now. Why, there,
on those same steps, a bare six months ago--Something snapped in her head, and she stumbled
to her feet, clinging to the arm of her chair.

"I can't stand it!" she gasped. "No, no, it's no use--I can't, I tell you. I--"

Rosemary's arm was about her--Mrs. Langdon's soft voice in her ears--a deeper note from Rosemary's
engineer.

"Oh, I say, poor girl! What is it, dear child--what's the matter? Is it the heat, Janie?"

"The heat!" She could hear herself laughing--frantic, hateful, jangling laughter that wouldn't
stop. "Oh, Jerry! Oh-h, Jerry, Jerry, Jerry!"

"It's this ghastly day. Let me get her some water, Mrs. Langdon. Don't cry so, Janie--please,
please don't, darling."

"I c-can't help it--I c-can't----" She paused, listening intently, her hand closing sharply
over Rosemary's wrist. "Oh, listen, listen--there it comes again--I told you so!"

"Thank Heaven," murmured Mrs. Langdon devoutly, "I thought that it never was going to rise
this evening. It's from the south, too, so I suppose that it means rain."

"Rain?" repeated Janet vaguely. "Why in the world should it mean rain?" Her small, pale face
looked suddenly brilliant and enchanted, tilted up to meet the thunderous music that was swinging
nearer and nearer. "Oh, do listen, you people! This time it's surely going to land!"

Rosemary stared at her blankly. "Land? What are you talking about, Janie?"

"My airplane--the one that you said was the fat Hodges boy on a motorcycle! Is there any place
near here that it can make a landing?"

"Darling child--" Mrs. Langdon's gentle voice was gentler than ever-- "darling child, it's
this wretched heat. There isn't any airplane, dear--it's just the wind rising in the beeches."

"The wind?" Janet laughed aloud--they really were too absurd. "Why, Mrs. Langdon, you can hear
the engines, if you'll only listen! You can hear them, can't you, Mr. Bain?"

The young engineer shook his head. "No plane would risk flying with this storm coming, Miss
Abbott. There's been thunder for the last hour or so, and it's getting nearer, too. It's only
the wind, I think."

"Oh, you're laughing at me--of course, of course you hear it. Why, it's as clear as--as clear
as--" Her voice trailed off into silence. Quite suddenly, without any transition or warning,
she knew. She could feel her heart stand perfectly still for a minute, and then plunge forward
in mad flight, racing, racing--oh, it knew, too, that eager heart! She took her hand from the
arm of the chair, releasing Rosemary's wrist very gently.

"Yes, of course, it's the heat," she said quietly. She must be careful not to frighten them,
these kind ones. "If you don't mind, Mrs. Langdon, I think that I'll go down to the gate to
watch the storm burst. No, please, don't any of you come--I'll promise to change everything
if I get caught--yes, everything! I won't be long; don't wait for me."

She walked sedately enough until she came to the turn in the path, but after that she ran,
only pausing for a minute to listen breathlessly. Oh, yes--following, following, that gigantic
music! How he must be laughing at her now--blind, deaf, incredulous little fool that she had
been, to doubt that Jerry would find a way! But where could he land? Not in the garden--not
at the gates--oh, now she had it--the far meadow. She turned sharply; it was dark, but the
path must be here. Yes, this was the wicket gate; her groping fingers were quite steady--they
found the latch--released it--the gate swung to behind her flying footsteps. "Oh, Jerry, Jerry!"
sang her heart. Why hadn't she worn the rose-coloured frock? It was she who would be a ghost
in that trailing white thing. To the right here--yes, there was the hawthorn hedge--only a
few steps more--oh, now! She stood as still as a small statue, not moving, not breathing, her
hands at her heart, her face turned to the black and torn sky. Nearer, nearer, circling and
darting and swooping--the gigantic humming grew louder--louder still--it swept about her thunderously,
so close that she clapped her hands over her ears, but she stood her ground, exultant and undaunted.
Oh, louder still--and then suddenly the storm broke. All the winds and the rains of the world
were unleashed, and fell howling and shrieking upon her, she staggered under their onslaught,
drenched to the bone, her dress whipping frantically about her, blinded and deafened by that
tumultuous clamour. She had only one weapon against it--laughter--and she laughed now--straight
into its teeth. And as though hell itself must yield to mirth, the fury wavered--failed--sank
to muttering. But Janie, beaten to her knees and laughing, never even heard it die.

"Jerry?" she whispered into the darkness, "Jerry?"

Oh, more wonderful than wonder, he was there! She could feel him stir, even if she could not
hear him--so close, so close was he that if she even reached out her hand, she could touch
him. She stretched it out eagerly, but there was nothing there--only a small, remote sound
of withdrawal, as though some one had moved a little.

"You're afraid that I'll be frightened, aren't you?" she asked wistfully. "I wouldn't be--I
wouldn't--please come back'"

He was laughing at her, she knew, tender and mocking and caressing; she smiled back, tremulously.

"You're thinking, 'I told you so!' Have you come far to say it to me?"

Only that little stir--the wind was rising again.

"Jerry, come close--come closer still. What are you waiting for, dear and dearest?"

This time there was not even a stir to answer her; she felt suddenly cold to the heart. What
had he always waited for?

"You aren't waiting--you aren't waiting to go?" She fought to keep the terror out of her voice,
but it had her by the throat. "Oh, no, no--you can't--not again! Jerry, Jerry, don't go away
and leave me--truly and truly I can't stand it--truly!"

She wrung her hands together desperately; she was on her knees to him--did he wish her to go
lower still? Oh, she had never learned to beg!

"I can't send you away again--I can't. When I sent you to France I killed my heart--when I
let you go to death, I crucified my soul. I haven't anything left but my pride--you can have
that, too. I can't send you back to your heaven. Stay with me--stay with me, Jerry!"

Not a sound--not a stir--but well she knew that he was standing there, waiting. She rose slowly
to her feet.

"Very well--you've won," she said hardly. "Go back to your saints and seraphs and angels; I'm
beaten. I was mad to think that you ever cared--go back!" She turned, stumbling, the sobs tearing
at her throat; he had gone several steps before she realized that he was following her--and
all the hardness and bitterness and despair fell from her like a cloak.

"Oh, Jerry," she whispered, "Jerry, darling, I'm so sorry. And you've come so far--just to
find this! What is it that you want; can't you tell me?"

She stood tense and still, straining eyes and ears for her answer--but it was not to eyes or
ears that it came.

"Oh, of course!" she cried clearly. "Of course, my wanderer! Ready?"

She stood poised for a second, head thrown back, arms flung wide--a small figure of Victory,
caught in the flying wind.

And, "Contact, Jerry!" she called joyously into the darkness. "Contact!"

There was a mighty whirring, a thunder and a roaring above the storm. She stood listening breathlessly
to it rise and swell--and then grow fainter--fainter still--dying, dying--dying--

But Janie, her small white face turned to the storm-swept sky behind which shone the stars,
was smiling radiantly. For she had sped her wanderer on his way--she had not failed him! He
looks like the advertisement of the young man rubbing his sunset-coloured chest with liniment,
goes East every year to the Harvard reunion--does everything--smokes a little too much--Oh,
you've seen him.

Meet his girl.

Meet the camel's back--or no--don't meet the camel's back yet. Meet the story. This is some
stunt--but Perry tried it on December the twenty-ninth. He was living over the next twenty
years without Betty. I don't care if it's fifty-proof wood alcohol."

"Oh, no--"

"C'm on! I was downstairs going to see if there were any more people and this dog or something,
he was coming upstairs. "Got the wrong party, Mr. Tate. Parkhurst is our most famous young
bachelor here." "I'm very sorry."

"Heavens, it's perfectly all right; most natural mistake in the world. I've got a clown costume
and I'm going down there myself after a while. Silly idea for a man of my age." He turned to
Butterfield. "Better change your mind and come down with us." She was dressed in the costume
of an Egyptian snake charmer, a costume carried out to the smallest detail. He was fascinated
and his fascination exercised a strangely sobering effect on him. With a growing clarity the
events of the day came back--he had lost forever this shimmering princess in emerald green
and black.

They all gazed.

Mrs. Townsend came bustling up.

"Well, Mr. Butterfield," she beamed, "I wouldn't have recognized you."

Perry bowed again and smiled gleefully behind his mask.

"And who is this with you?" she inquired. Betty seemed quite willing.

"Well, camel," said Betty cheerfully, "how do you like our happy party?"

"Oh," said Perry, "he's deaf and blind. Forget about him."

"That sure is some costume! But I should think you'd feel rather handicapped--you can't very
well shimmy, even if you want to."

The camel hung his head lugubriously.

"I wish you'd say something," continued Betty sweetly. "Say you like me, camel. Say you think
I'm pretty.

"You bet!" said the camel.

"I think it's the best idea," cried Betty, "to give a party like this! I don't see how they
ever thought of it. Come on, let's dance!" Mrs. Townsend has asked me to bestow the prizes.

"Minister, minister! Where's the minister?" cried voices out of the revel. "Who's going to
be the cler-gy-man?" Old Jumbo's got a Bible!"

"Razor, too, I'll bet!"

"Marry 'em off, Jumbo!"

"Where's your license, camel?"

"Make it legal, camel."

A man near by prodded Perry.

"Give him a piece of paper, camel.

If it was only real! he thought. If it only was!

"Kiss her, camel!" I told you!"

But at these words a flying bundle of snakes and silk and tawny hair hurled itself at him.

"Oh, Perry, don't leave me! I can't face it alone! Perry, Perry, take me with you!"

BREAK-NECK HILL

BY ESTHER FORBES

From The Grinnell Review

Down Holly Street the tide had set in for church. It was a proper, dilatory tide. Every silk-hat
glistened, every shoe was blacked, the flowers on the women's hats were as fresh as the daffodils
against the house fronts. Few met face to face, now and then a faster walker would catch up
with acquaintances and join them or, with a flash of raised hat, bow, and pass on down the stream.

Then the current met an obstacle. A man, young and graceful and very much preoccupied, walked
through the church-goers, faced in the opposite direction. His riding breeches and boots showed
in spite of the loose overcoat worn to cover them. He bowed continually, like royalty from
a landau, almost as mechanically, and answered the remarks that greeted him.

"Hello, Geth."

"Hello."

"Good morning, Mr. Gething. Not going to church this morning." This from a friend of his mother.

"Good morning. No, not this morning." He met a chum.

"Good riding day, eh?"

"Great."

"Well, Geth, don't break your neck."

"You bet not."

"I'll put a P.S. on the prayer for you," said the wag.

"Thanks a lot." The wag was always late--even to church on Easter morning. So Gething knew
the tail of the deluge was reached and past. He had the street almost to himself. It was noticeable
that the man had not once called an acquaintance by name or made the first remark. His answers
had been as reflex as his walking. Geth was thinking, and in the sombre eyes was the dumb look
of a pain that would not be told--perhaps he considered it too slight.

He left Holly Street and turned into Holly Park. Here from the grass that bristled so freshly,
so ferociously green, the tree trunks rose black and damp. Brown pools of water reflected a
blue radiant sky through blossoming branches. Gething subsided on a bench well removed from
the children and nurse maids. First he glanced at the corner of Holly Street and the Boulevard
where a man from his father's racing stable would meet him with his horse. His face, his figure,
his alert bearing, even his clothes promised a horse-man. The way his stirrups had worn his
boots would class him as a rider. He rode with his foot "through" as the hunter, steeple chaser,
and polo-player do--not on the ball of his foot in park fashion.

He pulled off his hat and ran his hand over his close-cropped head. Evidently he was still
thinking. Across his face the look of pain ebbed and returned, then he grew impatient. His
wrist-watch showed him his horse was late and he was in a hurry to be started, for what must
be done had best be done quickly. Done quickly and forgotten, then he could give his attention
to the other horses. There was Happiness--an hysterical child, and Goblin, who needed training
over water jumps, and Sans Souci, whose lame leg should be cocained to locate the trouble--all
of his father's stable of great thoroughbreds needed something except Cuddy, who waited only
for the bullet. Gething's square brown hand went to his breeches pocket, settled on something
that was cold as ice and drew it out--the revolver. The horse he had raced so many times at
Piping Rock, Brookline, Saratoga had earned the right to die by this hand which had guided
him. Cuddy's high-bred face came vividly before his eyes and the white star would be the mark.
He thrust the revolver back in his pocket hastily for a child had stopped to look at him, then
slowly rose and fell to pacing the gravel walk. A jay screamed overhead, "Jay, jay, jay!"

"You fool," Geth called to him and then muttered to himself. "Fool, fool--oh, Geth----" From
the boulevard a voice called him.

"Mr. Gething--if you please, sir----!" It was Willet the trainer.

"All right, Willet." The trainer was mounted holding a lean greyhound of a horse. Gething pulled
down the stirrups.

"I meant to tell you to bring Cuddy for me to ride, last time, you know."

"Not that devil. I could never lead him in. Frenchman, here, is well behaved in cities."

Gething swung up. He sat very relaxed upon a horse. There was a lifetime of practice behind
that graceful seat and manner with the reins. The horse started a low shuffling gait that would
take them rapidly out of the city to the Gething country place and stables.

"You know," Geth broke silence, "Cuddy's got his--going to be shot."

"Not one of us, sir," said Willet, "but will sing Hallelujah! He kicked a hole in Muggins yesterday.
None of the boys dare touch him, so he hasn't been groomed proper since your father said he
was to go. It's more dangerous wipin' him off than to steeplechase the others." Geth agreed.
"I know it isn't right to keep a brute like that."

"No, sir. When he was young and winning stakes it seemed different. I tell you what, we'll
all pay a dollar a cake for soap made out 'er old Cuddy."

"There'll be no soap made out of old Cuddy," Gething interrupted him, "I'll ride him out--up
to the top of Break-Neck Hill and shoot him there. You'd better begin the trench by noon. When
it's dug I'll take him to the top and----"

"But nobody's been on his back since your father said it was useless to try to make him over.
Too old for steeplechasing and too much the racer for anything else, and too much the devil
to keep for a suvnor."

"Well, I'll ride him once again."

"But, Mr. Geth, he's just been standing in his box or the paddock for four weeks now. We've
been waiting for you to say when he was to be shot. He's in a sweet temper and d' y'er know,
I think, I do----"

"What do you think?" Willet blushed purple.

"I think Cuddy's got something in his head, some plan if he gets out. I think he wants to kill
some one before he dies. Yes, sir, kill him. And you know if he gets the start of you there
is no stopping the dirty devil."

"Yes, he does tear a bit," Geth admitted. "But I never was on a surer jumper. Lord! How the
old horse can lift you!" Gething dropped into a disconsolate silence, interrupted before long
by Willet.

"Happiness will get Cuddy's box--she's in a stall. Cuddy was always mean to her--used to go
out of his way to kick her--and she, sweet as a kitten."

"So you'll give her his box in revenge?"

"Revenge? Oh, no sir. Just common sense." Any thought of a sentimental revenge was distasteful
to the trainer, but he was glad that good Happiness should get his box and disappointed about
the soap. It would have lent relish to his somewhat perfunctory washings to say to himself,
"Doubtless this here bit of soap is a piece of old Cuddy."

"How long will the trench take?"

"A good bit of time, sir. Cuddy isn't no kitten we're laying by. I'll put them gardeners on
the job--with your permission--and they know how to shovel. You'll want an old saddle on him?"

"No, no, the one I've raced him in, number twelve, and his old bridle with the chain bit."

"Well, well," said Willet rubbing his veiny nose.

He considered the horse unworthy of any distinction, but in his desire to please Geth, took
pains to prepare Cuddy for his death and burial. Gething was still at the big house although
it was four o'clock and the men on Break-Neck Hill were busy with their digging. Willet called
them the sextons.

"And we, Joey," he addressed a stable boy, "we're the undertakers. Handsome corpse, what?"
Cuddy stood in the centre of the barn floor fastened to be groomed. He was handsome, built
on the cleanest lines of speed and strength, lean as an anatomical study, perfect for his type.
The depth of chest made his legs, neck, and head look fragile. His face was unusually beautiful--the
white-starred face which had been before Geth's eyes as he had sat in Holly Park. His pricked
ears strained to hear, his eyes to see. The men working over him were beneath his notice.

"Look at him," complained Joey, "he pays no more attention to us than as if we weren't here."
Cuddy usually kicked during grooming, but his present indifference was more insulting.

"Huh!" said Willet. "he knows them sextons went to Break-Neck to dig the grave for him. Don't
yer, Devil? Say, Joey, look at him listening like he was counting the number of spadefuls it
takes to make a horse's grave. He's thinking, old Cuddy is, and scheming what he'd like to
do. I wouldn't ride him from here to Break-Neck, not for a thousand dollars." He began rapidly
with the body brush on Cuddy's powerful haunch, then burst out:

"He thinks he'll be good and we'll think he's hit the sawdust trail, or perhaps he wants to
look pretty in his coffin. Huh! Give me that curry. You wash off his face a bit." Cuddy turned
his aristocratic face away from the wet cloth and blew tremulously. Joey tapped the blazing
star on his forehead.

"Right there," he explained to Willet, "but anyhow he's begun to show his age." He pointed
the muzzle which had the run forward look of an old horse and to the pits above the eyes. The
grooming was finished but neither Gething came to the stable from the big house nor the trench
diggers from Break-Neck to say that their work was done.

"Say, Joey," suggested Willet, "I'll do up his mane in red and yellow worsteds, like he was
going to be exhibited. Red and yellow look well on a bay. You get to the paddock and see Frenchman
hasn't slipped his blanket while I fetch the worsteds from the office."

Cuddy left alone, stopped his listening and began pulling at his halter. It held him firm.
From the brown dusk of their box-stalls two lines of expectant horses' faces watched him. The
pretty chestnut, Happiness, already had been transferred to his old box, her white striped
face was barely visible. Farther down, on the same side, Goblin stood staring stupidly and
beyond were the heads of the three brothers, Sans Pareil, Sans Peur and the famous Sans Souci
who could clear seven feet of timber (and now was lame.) Opposite stood Bohemia, cold blood
in her veins as a certain thickness about the throat testified, and little Martini, the flat
racer. On either side of him were Hotspur and Meteor and there were a dozen others as famous.
Above each stall was hung the brass plate giving the name and pedigree and above that up to
the roof the hay was piled sweet and dusty-smelling. The barn swallows twittered by an open
window in the loft. In front of Cuddy the great double doors were open to the fields and pastures,
the gray hills and the radiant sky. Cuddy reared abruptly striking out with his front legs,
crouched and sprang against his halter again, but it held him fast. Willet, on returning with
his worsted, found him as he had left him, motionless as a bronze horse on a black marble clock.

Willet stood on a stool the better to work on the horse's neck. His practised fingers twisted
and knotted the mane and worsted, then cut the ends into hard tassels. The horse's withers
were reached and the tassels bobbing rakishly gave a hilarious look to the condemned animal.

Four men, very sweaty, carrying spades entered.

"It's done," said the first, nodding, "and it's a big grave. Glad pet horses don't die oftener."

"This ain't a pet," snapped Willet. "He's just that much property and being of no more use
is thrown away--just like an old tin can. No more sense in burying one than the other. If I
had my way about it I'd----" But Geth entered. With his coat off he gave an impression of greater
size, like Cuddy his lines were graceful enough to minimize his weight.

"Hole dug? Well, let's saddle up and start out." He did not go up to Cuddy to speak to him
as he usually would have done, but as if trying to avoid him, he fell to patting Happiness's
striped face. She was fretful in her new quarters. "Perhaps," thought Willet, "she knows it's
old Cuddy and he's gone out for good." All the horses seemed nervous and unhappy. It was as
if they knew that one of their number was to be taken out to an inglorious death--not the fortune
to die on the turf track as a steeple-chaser might wish, but ignominiously, on a hill top,
after a soft canter through spring meadows.

Cuddy stood saddled and bridled and then Willet turned in last appeal to his master's son.

"Mr. Geth, I wouldn't ride him--not even if I rode as well as you, which I don't. That horse
has grown worse and worse these last months. He wants to kill some one, that's what he wants."
Geth shook his head.

"No use, Willet, trying to scare me. I know what I'm doing, eh Cuddy?" He went to the horse
and rubbed the base of his ears. The satin head dropped forward on to the man's chest, a rare
response from Cuddy. Gething led him out of the stable, Willet held his head as the man mounted.

As he thrust his foot in the stirrup Cuddy lunged at Willet, his savage yellow teeth crushed
into his shoulder. The rider pulled him off striking him with his heavy hunting whip. The horse
squealed, arched himself in the air and sidled down the driveway. He did not try to run or
buck, but seemed intent on twisting himself into curves and figures. The two went past the
big house with its gables and numberless chimneys and down to the end of the driveway.

There is a four foot masonry wall around the Gething country-place ("farm" they call it). The
horse saw it and began jerking at his bit and dancing, for ever since colt-hood walls had had
but one meaning for him.

"Well, at it old man," laughed Gething. At a signal Cuddy flew at it, rose into the air with
magnificent strength and landed like thistle-down.

"Cuddy," cried the man, "there never was a jumper like you. Break-Neck will keep, we'll find
some more walls first." He crossed the road and entered a rough pasture. It was a day of such
abounding life one could pity the worm the robin pulled. For on such a day everything seemed
to have the right to live and be happy. The crows sauntered across the sky, care free as hoboes.
Under foot the meadow turf oozed water, the shad-bush petals fell like confetti before the
rough assault of horse and rider. Gething liked this day of wind and sunshine. In the city
there had been the smell of oiled streets to show that spring had come, here was the smell
of damp earth, pollen, and burnt brush. Suddenly he realized that Cuddy, too, was pleased and
contented for he was going quietly now, occasionally he threw up his head and blew "Heh, heh!"
through his nostrils. Strange that Willet had thought Cuddy wanted to kill some one--all he
really wanted was a bit of a canter.

A brook was reached. It was wide, marshy, edged with cowslips. It would take a long jump to
clear it. Gething felt the back gather beneath him, the tense body flung into the air, the
flight through space, then the landing well upon the firm bank.

"Bravo, Cuddy!" the horse plunged and whipped his head between his forelegs, trying to get
the reins from the rider's hands. Gething let himself be jerked forward until his face almost
rested on the veiny neck.

"Old tricks, Cuddy. I knew that one before you wore your first shoes." He still had easy control
and began to really let him out. There was a succession of walls and fences and mad racing
through fields when the horse plunged in his gait and frightened birds fluttered from the thicket
and Gething hissed between his teeth as he always did when he felt a horse going strong beneath
him.

Then they came to a hill that rose out of green meadows. It was covered with dingy pine trees
except the top that was bared like a tonsure. A trail ran through the woods; a trail singularly
morose and unattractive. The pines looked shabby and black in comparison to the sun on the
spring meadows. This was Break-Neck Hill. Perhaps Cuddy felt his rider stiffen in the saddle
for he refused passionately to take the path. He set his will against Gething's and fought,
bucking and rearing. When a horse is capable of a six foot jump into the air his great strength
and agility make his bucking terrible. The broncho is a child in size and strength compared
to Cuddy's race of super-horse. Twice Geth went loose in his flat saddle and once Cuddy almost
threw himself. The chain bit had torn the edges of his mouth and blood coloured his froth.
Suddenly he acquiesced and quiet again, he took the sombre path. Geth thrust his right hand
into his pocket, the revolver was still there. His hand left it and rested on the bobbing,
tasseled mane.

"Old man," he addressed the horse, "I know you don't know where you're going and I know you
don't remember much, but you must remember Saratoga and how we beat them all. And Cuddy, you'd
understand--if you could--how it's all over now and why I want to do it for you myself."

The woods were cleared. It was good to leave their muffled dampness for the pure sunshine of
the crest. On the very top of the hill clean-cut against the sky stood a great wind-misshaped
pine. At the foot of this pine was a bank of fresh earth and Gething knew that beyond the bank
was the trench. He bent in his saddle and pressed his forehead against the warm neck. Before
his eyes was the past they had been together, the sweep of the turf course, the grandstand
a-flutter, grooms with blankets, jockeys and gentlemen in silk, owners' wives with cameras,
then the race that always seemed so short--a rush of horses, the stretching over the jumps,
and the purse or not, it did not matter.

He straightened up with a grim set to his jaw and gathered the loosened reins. Cuddy went into
a canter and so approached the earth bank. Suddenly he refused to advance and again the two
wills fought, but not so furiously. Cuddy was shaking with fear. The bank was a strange thing,
a fearsome thing, and the trench beyond, ghastly. His neck stretched forward. "Heh, heh!" he
blew through his nostrils.

"Six steps nearer, Cuddy." Geth struck him lightly with his spurs. The horse paused by the
bank and began rocking slightly.

"Sist! be quiet," for they were on the spot Gething wished. The horse gathered himself, started
to rear, then sprang into the air, cleared earth-mound and trench and bounded down the hill.
The tremendous buck-jump he had so unexpectedly taken, combined with his frantic descent, gave
Gething no chance to get control until the level was reached. Then, with the first pull on
the bridle, he realized it was too late. For a while at least Cuddy was in command. Gething
tried all his tricks with the reins, the horse dashed on like a furious gust of wind, he whirled
through the valley, across a ploughed field, over a fence and into more pastures. Gething,
never cooler, fought for the control. The froth blown back against his white shirt was rosy
with blood. Cuddy was beyond realizing his bit. Then Gething relaxed a little and let him go.
He could guide him to a certain extent. Stop him he could not.

The horse was now running flatly and rapidly. He made no attempt to throw his rider. What jumps
were in his way he took precisely. Unlike the crazed runaway of the city streets Cuddy never
took better care of himself. It seemed that he was running for some purpose and Gething thought
of Willet's often repeated remark, "Look at 'im--old Cuddy, he's thinking." Two miles had been
covered and the gait had become business-like. Gething, guiding always to the left, was turning
him in a huge circle. The horse reeked with sweat. "Now," thought Gething, "he's had enough,"
but at the first pressure on the bit Cuddy increased his speed. His breath caught in his throat.
There was another mile and the wonderful run grew slower. The man felt the great horse trip
and recover himself. He was tired out. Again the fight between master and horse began. Cuddy
resisted weakly, then threw up his beautiful, white-starred face as if in entreaty.

"Oh, I'm----" muttered Gething and let the reins lie loose on his neck, "your own way, Cuddy.
Your way is better than mine. Old friend, I'll not try to stop you again." For he knew if he
tried he could now gain control. The early dusk of spring had begun to settle on the surface
of the fields in a hazy radiance, a marvelous light that seemed to breathe out from the earth
and stream through the sky. A mile to the east upon a hill was a farm house. The orange light
from the sunset found every window, blinded them and left them blank oblongs of orange. The
horse and rider passed closer to this farm. Two collies rushed forward, then stopped to bark
and jump. The light enveloped them and gave each a golden halo.

Again Gething turned still keeping toward the left. A hill began to rise before them and up
it the horse sped, his breath whirring and rattling in his throat, but his strength still unspent.
To the very top he made his way and paused dazed. "Oh, Cuddy," cried Gething, "this is Break-Neck."
For there was the wind-warped pine, the bank of earth, the trench. The horse came to a shivering
standstill. The bank looked strange to him. He stood sobbing, his body rocking slightly, rocking
gently, then with a sigh, came slowly down on to the turf. Gething was on his feet, his hand
on the dripping neck.

"You always were a bad horse and I always loved you," he whispered, "and that was a great ride,
and now----" He rose abruptly and turned away as he realized himself alone in the soft twilight.
The horse was dead. Then he returned to the tense body, so strangely thin and wet, and removed
saddle and bridle. With these hung on his arm he took the sombre path through the pines for home.

BLACK ART AND AMBROSE

BY GUY GILPATRIC

From Collier's, The National Weekly

"... The Naytives of the Seacoast told me many fearsome Tales of these Magycians, or Voodoos,
as they called Them. It would seem that the Mystic Powers of these Magycians is hereditary,
and that the Spells, Incantacions, and other Secretts of their Profession are passed on One
to the Other and holden in great Awe by the People. The Marke of this horride Culte is the
Likeness of a great Human Eye, carved in the Fleshe of the Backe, which rises in Ridges as
it heals and lasts Forever ..."

  --Extract from "A Truthful Accounte of a Voyage and Journey
  to the Land of Afrique, Together with Numerous Drawings and
  Mappes, and a most Humble Petition Regarding the Same."
  Presented by Roberte Waiting, Gent. in London, Anno D. 1651.

A few blocks west of the subway, and therefore off the beaten track of the average New Yorker,
is San Juan Hill. If you ever happen on San Juan unawares, you will recognize it at once by
its clustering family of mammoth gas houses, its streets slanting down into the North River,
and the prevailing duskiness of the local complexion. If you chance to stray into San Juan
after sundown, you will be relieved to note that policemen are plentiful, and that they walk
in pairs. This last observation describes the social status of San Juan or any other neighbourhood
better than volumes of detailed episodes could begin to do.

Of late years many of the Fust Famblies of San Juan have migrated northward to the teeming
negro districts of Harlem, but enough of the old stock remains to lend the settlement its time-honoured
touch of gloom. Occasionally, too, it still makes its way to the public notice by sanguinary
affrays and race riots. San Juan Hill is a geographical, racial, and sociological fact, and
will remain so until the day when safety razors become a universal institution.

San Juan is a community in itself. It has its churches, its clubs, its theatres, its stores,
and--sighs of relief from the police--it used to have its saloons. It is a cosmopolitan community,
too--as cosmopolitan as it can be and still retain its Senegambian motif.

Negroes from Haiti, Jamaica, Salvador, Cuba; from Morocco and Senegal; blue-black negroes from
the Pacific; ebony negroes from the South; brown, tan, yellow, and buff negroes from everywhere
inhabit San Juan. Every language from Arabic to Spanish is spoken by these--the cosmopolites
of cosmopolitan San Juan.

Pussonally, Mr. Ambrose de Vere Travis spoke only English. Because he hailed from Galveston,
Tex., he spoke it with a Gulf intonation at once liquid, rich, and musical. He stood six feet
five on his bare soles, so his voice was somewhat reminiscent of the Vatican organ.

Ambrose was twenty-four years old. Our story finds him a New Yorker of three years' standing,
all of which he had spent as a dweller on San Juan Hill. Originally the giant Mr. Travis had
served as furnace tender in the subterraneous portions of the Swalecliffe Arms apartments,
that turreted edifice in the Eighties that frowns across at the Palisades from Riverside Drive.
But his size and the size of his smile had won for Ambrose the coveted and uniformed position
of door-man, a post at which he served with considerable success and the incidental tips.

The recently wealthy Mr. Braumbauer, for instance, really felt that he was somebody, when Ambrose
opened the door of his car and bowed him under the portcullis of Swalecliffe. And y'understand
me, a feller's willing he should pay a little something for service once in a while. And so,
one way and another, Ambrose managed to eke from his job a great deal more than he drew on pay day.

But Mr. Travis's source of income did not stop there--far from it. He had brought from Galveston
a genius for rolling sevens--or, if he missed seven the first roll, he could generally make
his point within the next three tries. He could hold the dice longer than any man within the
San Juan memory, which, in view of the fact that craps is to San Juan what bridge is to Boston,
is saying a great deal. Ambrose was simply a demon with the bones, and he was big enough to
get away with it.

True, there had been difficulties.

One evening at the Social Club Ambrose held the dice for a straight sixteen passes. He and
five other courtiers of fortune were bounding the ivories off the cushion of a billiard table,
to the end that the contest be one of chance and not of science. In the midst of Ambrose's
stentorian protests that the baby needed footwear, one of the losers forgot his breeding to
the extent of claiming that Ambrose had introduced a loaded die. As he seconded his claims
with a razor, the game met a temporary lull.

When the furniture had ceased crashing, the members of the club emerged from beneath the pool
tables to see Mr. Travis tying up a slashed hand, while he of the razor lay moaning over a
broken shoulder and exuding teeth in surprising quantities.

After this little incident no one ever so far forgot himself as to breathe the faintest aspersion
on Mr. Travis, his dice, his way of throwing them down or of picking them up.

It was generally conceded that his conduct throughout the fray had been of the best, and the
affair did much to raise him in popular esteem--especially as he was able to prove the caviler's
charges to be utterly unfounded.

And so, with his physical beauty, his courage, and his wealth, Mr. Ambrose de Vere Travis became
something of a figure in San Juan's social circles.

Just when Ambrose fell in love with Miss Aphrodite Tate is not quite clear.

Aphrodite (pronounced just as spelled) was so named because her father thought it had something
to do with Africa. She was astoundingly, absolutely, and gratifyingly black, and Ambrose was
sure that he had never seen any one quite so beautiful.

Aphrodite lived with her parents, the ancient and revered Fremont-Tates, patroons of San Juan.
In the daytime she was engaged as maid by a family that suttingly treated her lovely; while
in the evening she could usually be found at the St. Benedict Young People's Club. And it was
here that Ambrose met her.

True love ran smoothly for a long time. At last, when he felt the tune was ripe, Ambrose pleaded
urgent business for two evenings and shook down the Social Club dice fanciers for the price
of the ring.

Then Mr. Dominique Raffin loomed dark on the horizon. Mr. Raffin did not loom as dark as he
might have loomed, however, because he was half white. He hailed from Haiti, and was the son
of a French sailor and a transplanted Congo wench. He was slight of build and shifty of eye.
His excuse for being was a genius for music. He could play anything, could this pasty Dominique,
but of all instruments he was at his tuneful best on the alto saxophone.

"Lawd! Oh, Lawd!" his audience would ejaculate, as with closed eyes and heads thrown back they
would drink in the sonorous emanations from the brazen tube. "Dat's de horn ob de Angel Gabriel--dat's
de heabenly music ob de spears!" And so Dominique's popularity grew among the ladies of San
Juan, even if among the gentlemen it did not.

To tell the truth, Dominique was something of a beau. Because he played in an orchestra, he
had ample opportunity to study the deportment of people who passed as fashionable. His dress
was immaculate; his hair was not so kinky that it couldn't be plastered down with brilliantine,
and he perfumed himself copiously. His fingers were heavily laden with rings. Dominique's voice
was whining--irritating.

His native tongue was French, but he had learned to speak English in Jamaica. Thus his accent
was a curious mixture of French and Cockney, lubricated with oily African.

Altogether, it is not to be wondered that such sturdy sons of Ham as Ambrose disliked the snaky
Mr. Raffin. Disliked him the more when his various musical and cultural accomplishments made
him a general favourite with the ladies. And then, when he absolutely cut Mr. Travis from the
affections of Miss Tate, the wrath of the blacker and more wholesome San Juan citizens knew
no bounds.

As for Ambrose--he sulked. Even his friends, the fur-lined tenants of Swalecliffe Arms, noticed
that something worried the swart guardian of their gate. In the evenings Ambrose gave his entire
time to frenzied rolling of the bones and was surprised to see that here, at least, luck had
not deserted him.

On the few occasions when he forsook the green baize for an evening's dancing at the St. Benedict
Young People's Guild, the sight of the coveted Miss Aphrodite whirling in the arms of the hated
Raffin almost overcame him.

Finally the lovesick Mr. Travis decided to call upon the lady of his heart and demand an explanation.
After some rehearsal of what he wanted to say, Ambrose betook himself to the tenement in which
the Tate family dwelt. At sight of her cast-off swain, Miss Aphrodite showed the whites of
her eyes and narrowed her lips to a thin straight line--perhaps an inch and a half thin. Evidently
she was displeased.

Aphrodite opened the interview by inquiring why she was being pestered and intermediated by
a low-down black nigger that didn't have no mo' brains than he had manners. Her feelings was
likely to git the better of her at any moment; in which event Mr. Travis had better watch out,
that was all--jest watch out.

The astounded Mr. Travis did his best to pacify this Amazon; to explain that he had merely
come to inquire the reason for her displeasure; to learn in what respect Mr. Raffin had proved
himself so sweetly desirable.

The answer was brief and crushing. It seemed that where Mr. Travis was a big, bulky opener
of doors, Mr. Raffin was a sleek and cultured Chesterfield--a musician--an artist. Where Mr.
Travis could not dance without stepping on everybody in the room, Mr. Raffin was a veritable
Mordkin. Where Mr. Travis hung out with a bunch of no-good crap-shooting black buck niggers,
Mr. Raffin's orchestral duties brought him into the most cultured s'ciety. In short, the yellow
man from Haiti was a gentleman; the black man from Texas was a boor.

This unexpected tirade made the unhappy Ambrose a trifle weak in the knees. Then pride came
to the rescue, and he drew himself to his full and towering six feet five. He held out his
mammoth hands before Miss Aphrodite and warned her that with them, at the first provocation,
he would jest take and bust Mr. Raffin in two. This done, he would throw the shuddering fragments
into the street, and with his feet--Exhibit B--would kick them the entire length and breadth
of the neighbourhood.

This threat only aroused new fires of scorn and vituperation, and Miss Tate informed her guest
that, should he ever attempt the punitive measures described, Mr. Raffin would cut him up into
little pieces. It seemed that Mr. Raffin carried a knife, and that he knew how to use it.

Mr. Travis snorted at this, and stamped out of the Tate apartment.

At his exit, doors closed softly on every floor, because the neighbours had listened to the
tête-à-tête with intense interest. Even people in the next house had been able to hear most of it.

Ambrose made his furious way toward the Social Club, his mind set on mortal encounter with
the hated Dominique. But--here was an inspiration!--why not win his money away from him first?
To win away his last cent--to humble him--to ruin him--and then to break him in two and kick
the pieces through the San Juan causeways, as per programme! This would be a revenge indeed!

Ambrose noted with satisfaction that Mr. Raffin was already at play, and crossing the smoke-filled
room he threw down some money and took his place in the game.

Now, Mr. Travis was ordinarily a very garrulous and vociferous crap shooter, but to-night he
was savagely silent. There was a disturbing, electric something in the air that the neutrals
felt and feared. There was a look in the Travis eye that boded ill for somebody, and one by
one the more prudent gamesters withdrew.

Then suddenly the storm broke.

Later accounts were not clear as to just what started the fray, but start it did.

Dominique's knife appeared from some place, and the table crashed. Then the knife swished through
space like a hornet and buried its point harmlessly in a door across the room.

What followed is still a subject of wondering conversation on San Juan Hill.

It seems that Mr. Travis seized Mr. Raffin by the collar of his coat, and swung him round and
round and over his head. Mr. Raffin streamed almost straight out, like the imitation airplanes
that whirl dizzily about the tower in an amusement park. Suddenly there was a rending of cloth,
and Dominique shot through the air to encounter the wall with a soul-satisfying thump.

Ambrose looked bewildered at the torn clothing he held in his hand, and then at the limp form
of his late antagonist. Mr. Raffin lay groaning, naked from the waist up.

Ambrose strode across to administer further chastisement, but was halted by a cry from one
of the onlookers. This man stood pointing at Dominique's naked back--pointing, and staring
with eyes that rolled with genuine negro terror.

"Look!" gasped the affrighted one. "Look! It's de Voo-doo Eye-- dat man's a witch! Ambrose,
fo' de Lawd's sake, git away from hyar!"

"What you-all talkin' about?" scoffed Ambrose, striding closer, and rolling Dominique so that
the light shone full on his back. "What you-all talkin'----Good Lawd"!

This last ejaculation from Ambrose was caused by the sight that met his gaze.

There, on the yellow back before him, reaching from shoulder to shoulder, was tattooed the
likeness of a great human eye!

Everyone saw it now. To some--the Northern darkies--it meant nothing. But to the old-school
Southern negroes it meant mystery--magic--death. It was the sign of the Voodoo!

Several of the more superstitious onlookers retreated in poor order, their teeth chattering.
Their mammies had told them about the Voodoo Eye. They remembered the tales whispered in the
slave quarters about people being prayed to death by these baleful creatures of ill omen! They
weren't going to take any chances!

Ambrose, for all his natural courage, was shaken. He remembered old Tom Blue, the Texas Voodoo,
who poisoned twenty-one people and came to life after the white men lynched him. And now he
had laid rough hands on one of the deadly clan; had brought upon himself the wrath of a man
who could simply wish him to death!

Trembling, he stooped down and looked at the Devil's Sign. He looked again--closely. Then he
broke out into a ringing peal of wholesome darky laughter.

"Git up!" he shouted, as Dominique showed signs of life. "Git up, Mr. Voodoo, befo' Ah gits
impatient an' throws you out de window!"

This recklessness--this defiance of the dread power--shocked even the least superstitious of
the audience. By this time they were all under the spell of this mysterious mark. Those who
hadn't recognized it at once had been quickly enlightened by the others.

Ambrose seized Dominique by the shoulder and dragged him to his feet. Swaying unsteadily, the
mulatto looked around him through eyes closed to snakelike slits.

"Raffin," said Ambrose, "you-all has on yo' back de Eye ob Voodoo. Dese gennlemen hyar thinks
yo' is a Voodoo. Ah know yo' ain't!"

"I am a Voodoo! An' you, you sacré cochon," hissed Raffin, "I'll make you wish you had nevaire
been born!"

"Well, jes' fo' de present," laughed Ambrose, good humour spreading all over his face, "you-all
had better git outa my way, an' stay out! Git outa hyar quick!"

Dominique, his evil face twitching with fury, picked up the ragged shreds of his coat and walked
unsteadily out.

At his exit a dead silence fell upon the remaining members. Then they gathered together in
excited groups and discussed the incident in heated undertones. Ambrose, quite unconcerned,
took up a pack of cards and commenced a game of solitaire.

He wasn't worrying. He knew that Dominique was no more a Voodoo than he was. Startled at first,
he had noticed that the eye had not been carved in Dominique's back, as it should have been,
but had been tattooed. This in itself made the thing doubtful. But more than this, the marks
were the unmistakably accurate work of an electric tattooing machine.

Ambrose had spent his youth on the Galveston water front, and knew tattooing in all its forms.
Electric tattooing on a Voodoo was about as much in keeping with the ancient and awesome dignity
of the cult as spangled tights would be on the King of England. No--it was ridiculous. Dominique
was not a Voodoo!

Ambrose continued his solitaire, humming as he played. Occasionally he cast an amused eye at
the excited groups across the room, and was not surprised when Mr. Behemoth Scott, president
of the club, at last came over to him.

"Mistah Travis," began Mr. Scott deferentially, clearing his throat, "would you-all be good
enough to jine our little gatherin' while we confabulate on dis hyar recent contabulaneous
incident?"

"Suttingly, Mr. Scott, suttingly!" said Ambrose, pushing back his chair, and crossing the room
with the quaking official. "What can Ah do fo' you-all?"

"Well, jest this," said Mr. Scott. "You gennlemen kin'ly correc' me or bear out what Ah say.
Leavin' aside all argument whether they is sech things as Voodoos, Ah guess any of you gennlemen
from the South will remember Aunt Belle Agassiz and Tom Blue. Ah guess yo' mammies all done
tole 'bout the African Voodoos, an' how ebery now an' den one of 'em crops up still. An' Ah
guess dat we've seen to-night dat we've got a Voodoo among us. Now, Mr. Travis"--here he turned
to Ambrose--"we know what Aunt Belle Agassiz done on de Mathis Plantation in Georgia--you ought
to know what Tom Blue did in Texas. So we wants to warn you, as a fren' an' membah of dis club
in good standin', dat you better leave town to-night."

An assenting murmur arose from the crowd, with much rolling of eyes and nodding of heads.

Ambrose held up his hand for silence. A serious expression came over his features, and he towered
tall and straight before them.

"Gennlemen," he said, "Ah sho appreciates yo' good sperit in dis hyar unfo'tunate affair. But
Ah tells you-all hyar an' now dat Dominique Raffin ain't no mo' Voodoo den Ah is. Now, Ah ain't
sayin' dat he ain't a Voodoo, an' Ah ain't sayin' dat Ah am one. All Ah says is dat Ah's as
much of a Voodoo as he is--an' Ah'm willin' to prove it!"

"How you-all do dat, Ambrose?" asked somebody.

"Ah'm comin' to dat," replied Ambrose. "If you-all wants to decide dis mattah beyont all doubt,
Ah respekf'ly suggests dat we hold a see-ance in dis hyar room, under any c'nditions dat you-all
kin d'vise. If Ah cain't show yo mo' supernat'ral man'festations dan he can, Ah gives him fifty
dollahs. If it's de oder way 'roun', he leaves de city within twenty-fo' hours. Is dat fair?"

"Well, it suttinly soun's puff'cly jest," replied Mr. Scott. "We-all will appint a committee
to frame de rules of de see-ance, an' make 'em fair fo' both. You's been willin' to prove yo'-se'f,
Ambrose, an' yo' couldn't do mo'. If dis m'latter Voodoo don't want to do lak'wise, he can
leave dese pahts moughty sudden. Ain't dat so, gennlemen?"

"Yassuh--he'll leave quick!" was the threatening reply.

"All right den, Ambrose," continued the spokesman, "we'll 'range fo' dis sperit-summonin' contes'
jes' as soon as we kin. We'll have it nex' Satiddy night at lates'. Meanwhile we-all is moughty
obleeged to yo' for yo' willin'-ness to do de right thing."

The great night arrived, and San Juan, dressed in its gala finery, wended its chattering way
to the Senegambian séance. But beneath the finery and the chatter ran a subtle under-current
of foreboding, for your negro is superstitious, and, well, Voodoos are Voodoos!

Dominique Raffin, dressed in somber black, went to the club alone and unattended save by Miss
Aphrodite Tate. San Juan, fearing the Raffin mulatto and his ghostly powers, had held its respectful
distance ever since the evening when Ambrose and his rage had revealed them. Familiarity breeding
contempt, Miss Aphrodite knew her man, and feared him not.

They found the rooms of the social club full of excited negroes, for never before in San Juan's
history had such a momentous event been scheduled. Raffin and Aphrodite were received with
a fearsome respect by Behemoth Scott, who had been appointed master of ceremonies.

"Jes' make yo'se'f to home," he greeted them. "Mista Travis ain't come yit; we has ten minutes
befo' de contes' styarts."

At last, with a bare minute to spare, Ambrose smilingly entered. He wore his splendid full-dress
suit, a wonderful creation of San Juan's leading tailor, who, at Ambrose's tasteful suggestion,
had faced the lapels with satin of the most royal purple. Set out by this background of colourful
lapel was a huge yellow chrysanthemum, while on the broad red band that diagonally traversed
his shining shirt front glittered like a decoration, the insignia from his Swalecliffe uniform cap.

"Good evenin', folks," was his cheerful greeting. "If you-all is quite ready fo' dis see-ance,
an' provided mah--er--wuthy opponent am ready, Ah'd jes' as soon proceed."

Miss Aphrodite gazed on the imposing figure of Ambrose with more than a little admiration.
Comparing him with the trembling Raffin, she found much in his favour.

All but his footwear. Accustomed as she had become to the glistening patent leathers affected
by Raffin, Ambrose's clumsy congress gaiters somewhat marred his gorgeousness. Nevertheless,
she felt her affections wavering. Her speculations were interrupted by the voice of the master
of ceremonies:

"Ladies an' gennlemen," began Mr. Scott, "we-all has d 'cided to form a circle of twelve of
our membahs wif dese two Voodoo gennlemen asettin' opp'site each oder in de circle. In o'dah
to preclude any poss'bility of either Mista Travis or Mista Raffin from leavin' dere places,
we has d'cided to tie dem to dere cheers by ropes passed 'roun' dere bodies an' fastened to
de backs of de cheers. De lights will den be distinguished. When he lights is tu'ned out, Mista
Raffin will be given fifteen minutes in which to summon de supernat'ral proofs--whatevah dey
may be--of his bein' Voodoo. Den Mista Travis will be given his chanct."

Amid the hushed whisperings of the assemblage the committee, six men and six women, Aphrodite
included, took their places in the circle. Ambrose and the mulatto were seated opposite each
other and were perhaps twelve feet apart. Raffin, nervously licking his lips, sat bolt upright
while members of the committee passed ropes around him and the back of his chair, and tied
his hands. In direct contrast to his rival, Ambrose slouched down in his seat and joked with
the trembling members as they secured him in his place.

Those not on the committee crowded close to the chair backs of the circle in order that nothing
should escape them. The excitement was tense, and everyone was breathing hard. When all was
ready Mr. Behemoth Scott took his place in the circle. Drawing a long breath and grasping his
chair for support, he spoke in a hushed and husky voice: "All raidy, now? Ah asks silence from
eve'body. Turn out de lights"!

At the fateful words Stygian darkness enveloped the crowded room. The shades had been drawn
and not the faintest ray from the dim street lights penetrated the place. It was stifling hot,
and the assembled investigators were perspiring freely....

Silence--black, awe-inspired silence! Two hundred pairs of superstitious eyes peered into the
horrible gloom--two hundred pairs of ears strained at the tomblike stillness. The suspense
was awful, and none dared move. Occasionally some familiar sound came from the world outside:
the clang of the Tenth Avenue car or the whistle of a tugboat out in the river, but these sounds
were of another existence--they seemed distant and unfamiliar and wholly out of place in the
mystery and terror of the Voodoo seance.

The minutes slid by, and nothing happened. The suspense was worse than ever. Something stirred
in the circle. Two hundred hearts missed a beat. Then the whining, terror-stricken voice of
the mulatto broke the stillness: "Let Travis try," he whispered hoarsely. "My spirits will
not come until 'e 'as tried. Let 'im try fo' fifteen minutes, and when 'e 'as failed I will
summon the ghost of Bula-Wayo, the king of all the tribes of the Niger. But let Travis try
first!" This last almost pleadingly.

A moment more of silence and Ambrose's deep voice boomed forth in the darkness.

"Ah's willin'," he declared. "Anythin' dat now appears will be mah doin'--ten minits is all
Ah asks. Am dat sat'sfact'ry?"

"Yaas," replied the voice of Behemoth Scott. "Go ahaid wif yo' sperit-summonin', Mista Travis."

"Ah'll cawncentrate now," replied Ambrose, "an' sho'tly you-all will witness ample proof of
mah bein' a genuine Voo-doo. Ah's stahtin'."

Silence more terrible than ever fell upon the waiting negroes. Then--horror of horrors! a peculiar
grating, rustling sound came from the vicinity of Ambrose--a slight creaking--and again silence.
The investigators held hands of neighbours who trembled from sheer panic, whose breath came
hard and panting from this awful suspense!

Another creaking, as though Ambrose had shifted his weight in his chair....

Then--baleful--in its green, ghastly glow--a dim, indistinct light shone in the centre of the
circle! Moving slowly, like a newly awakened spirit, it waved in the very midst of the gasping
committee. Back and forth, up and down, it moved--glowing, vaporous, ghostly. Two hundred pairs
of bulging eyes saw the horror--and realized that it was an enormous hand, terribly deformed!

Some one moaned with terror--a woman screamed. "De hand ob death!" shrieked a man. "Run--run
fo' yo' lives!"

The stampede was spontaneous! Chairs were overturned and tables smashed in this frightful panic
in the dark. No one thought of turning on the lights--everyone's sole aim was to leave that
appalling shining hand--and get out!

A crashing on the stairway marked where Raffin, chair and all, was making his fear-stricken
way to the street. In one brief minute the place was apparently empty save for Ambrose. Still
tied to his chair, he inquired: "Is any one hyar?"

For a second there was silence, then the dulcet tones of Miss Aphrodite fell on the big negro's
ear: "Ah's hyar, Ambrose," she said.

"Well, den"--recognizing her voice--"would you mine lightin' de gas till Ah can tie mahself
loose from dis hyar throne ob glory?"

In a moment a feeble gaslight shone, disclosing Aphrodite--somewhat disarranged by the panic--standing
smiling in front of the erstwhile Voodoo. She looked down at his feet. There, sure enough,
one huge member was unshod and stockingless; the elastic-slit congress gaiter, lost in the
shuffle, lay out of the radius of Ambrose's long leg. Miss Aphrodite picked it up and, stooping,
slipped it over his mighty toes, noticing as she did so the thick coating of phosphorescent
paint that still covered them.

"Ambrose," she whispered, "Ah wasn't scaired. No ghos' eber was bohn dat had han's de size
ob yo' feet!"

An embarrassed silence followed; the gas jet flickered weakly; then Ambrose said: "Untie mah
han's, Aphrodite--Ah'd jes' lak to hug you!"

"Oh, Ambrose," she cried coyly. But she untied the rope just the same.

Again came silence, broken only by a certain strange sound. Then Ambrose's voice came softly
through the gloom: "Aphrodite," it said, "yo' lips am jes' lak plush!"

"My. I felt as if I were helplessly strapped down and that he was about to probe me mercilessly
with some sharp instrument.

THE ARGOSIES

BY ALEXANDER HULL

From Scribner's Magazine

There may have been some benevolent force watching over Harber. In any case, that would be
a comforting belief. Certainly Harber himself so believed, and I know he had no trouble at
all convincing his wife. Yes, the Harbers believed.

But credulity, you may say, was ever the surest part in love's young golden dream: and you,
perhaps, not having your eyes befuddled with the rose-fog of romance, will see too clearly
to believe. What can I adduce for your conviction? The facts only. After all, that is the single
strength of my position.

There was, of course, the strange forehanded, subtle planning of the other girl, of Janet Spencer.
Why did she do it? Was it that, feeling her chances in Tawnleytown so few, counting the soil
there so barren, driven by an ambition beyond the imagination of staid, stodgy, normal Tawnleytown
girls, she felt she must create opportunities where none were? She was very lovely, Harber
tells me, in a fiery rose-red of the fairy-tale way; though even without beauty it needn't
have been hard for her. Young blood is prone enough to adventure; the merest spark will set
it akindle. I should like to have known that girl. She must have been very clever. Because,
of course, she couldn't have foreseen, even by the surest instinct, the coincidence that brought
Harber and Barton together. Yes, there is a coincidence in it. It's precisely upon that, you
see, that Harber hangs his belief.

I wonder, too, how many of those argosies she sent out seeking the golden fleece returned to
her? It's a fine point for speculation. If one only knew.... ah, but it's pitiful how much
one doesn't, and can't, know in this hard and complex world! Or was it merely that she tired
of them and wanted to be rid of them? Or again, do I wrong her there, and were there no more
than the two of them, and did she simply suffer a solitary revulsion of feeling, as Harber
did? But no, I'm sure I'm right in supposing Barton and Harber to have been but two ventures
out of many, two arrows out of a full quiver shot in the dark at the bull's-eye of fortune.
And, by heaven, it was splendid shooting ... even if none of the other arrows scored!

Harber tells me he was ripe for the thing without any encouragement to speak of. Tawnleytown
was dull plodding for hot youth. Half hidden in the green of fir and oak and maple, slumberous
with midsummer heat, it lay when he left it. Thickly powdered with the fine white dust of its
own unpaven streets, dust that sent the inhabitants chronically sneezing and weeping and red-eyed
about town, or sent them north to the lakes for exemption, dust that hung impalpably suspended
in the still air and turned the sunsets to things of glorious rose and red and gold though
there wasn't a single cloud or streamer in the sky to catch the light, dust that lay upon lawns
and walks and houses in deep gray accumulation  ... precisely as if these were objects put
away and never used and not disturbed until they were white with the inevitable powdery accretion
that accompanies disuse. Indeed, he felt that way about Tawnleytown, as if it were a closed
room of the world, a room of long ago, unused now, unimportant, forgotten.

So unquestionably he was ready enough to go. He had all the fine and far-flung dreams of surging
youth. He peopled the world with his fancies, built castles on every high hill. He felt the
urge of ambition fiercely stirring within him, latent power pulsing through him. What would
you? Wasn't he young and in love?

For there had been, you must know, a good deal between them. What does one do in these deadly
dull little towns for amusement, when one is young and fain and restless? Harber tells me they
walked the streets and shaded lanes in the dim green coolness of evening, lounged in the orchard
hammock, drifted down the little river, past still pools, reed-bordered, under vaulting sycamores,
over hurrying reaches fretted with pebbles, forgot everything except one another and their
fancies and made, as youth must, love. That was the programme complete, except for the talk,
the fascinating, never-ending talk. Volumes on volumes of it--whole libraries of it.

So, under her veiled fostering, the feeling that he must leave Tawnleytown kept growing upon
Harber until one evening it crystallized in decision.

It was on a Sunday. They had taken a lunch and climbed Bald Knob, a thousand feet above the
town, late in the afternoon. The dying sun and the trees had given them a splendid symphony
in black and gold, and had silenced them for a little. They sat looking down over the valley
in which the well-known landmarks slowly grew dark and indistinguishable and dim lights blossomed
one after another. The sound of church bells rose faintly through the still air. The pale last
light faded in the sky.

Harber and Janet sat in the long grass, their hearts stirring with the same urgent, inarticulate
thoughts, their hands clasped together.

"Let's wait for Eighty-seven," she said.

Harber pressed her hand for reply.

In the mind of each of them Eighty-seven was the symbol of release from Tawnleytown, of freedom,
of romance.

Presently a shifting light appeared in the east, a faint rumble became perceptible and increased.
The swaying shaft of light intensified and a moment later the long-drawn poignancy of a chime-whistle
blowing for the river-road crossing, exquisitely softened by distance, echoingly penetrated
the still valley.

A streak of thunderous light swam into view and passed them, plunging into a gap in the west.
The fire-box in the locomotive opened and flung a flood of light upon a swirling cloud of smoke.
A sharp turn in the track, a weak blast of the whistle at the bridge-head, and the "Limited,"
disdaining contemptible Tawnleytown, had swept out of sight--into the world--at a mile to the
minute.

"If I were on it," said Harber slowly.

Janet caught her breath sharply. "You're a man!" she said fiercely. "You could be--so easily!"

Harber was startled for a moment. Her kindling of his flame of adventure had been very subtle
until now. Perhaps she hadn't been sure before to-day of her standing. But this afternoon,
upon the still isolation of Bald Knob, there had been many kisses exchanged, and brave vows
of undying love. And no doubt she felt certain of him now.

With Harber, however, the pathway had seemed leading otherwhere. He wasn't the sort of youth
to kiss and ride away. And, discounting their adventurous talk, he had tacitly supposed that
his course the last few weeks spelled the confinement of the four walls of a Tawnleytown cottage,
the fetters of an early marriage. He had been fighting his mounting fever for the great world,
and thinking, as the train sped by, that after all "home was best." It would be. It must be.
So, if his fine dreams were the price he must pay for Janet, still he would pay them! And he
was startled by her tone.

Her slim fingers tightened upon his.

"Why do you stay?" she cried passionately. "Why don't you go?"

"There's you," he began.

"Yes!" she exclaimed. "Oh, I'm selfish, maybe! I don't know! But it's as much for me as for
you that I say it!"

Her words poured out tumultuously.

"Where are all our wonderful dreams--if you stay here? Gone aglimmering! Gone! I can't see
them all go--I can't! Can you?"

Was he to have, then, both Janet and his dreams? His heart quickened. He leaned impulsively
toward her.

She pushed his face away with her free hand.

"No--no! Wait till I'm through! We've always known we weren't like other Tawnleytown folk,
haven't we, dear? We've always said that we wanted more out of life than they--that we wouldn't
be content with half a loaf--that we wanted the bravest adventures, the yellowest gold, the
finest emotions, the greater power! And if now ...

"See those fights down there--so few--and so faint. We can't live our lives there. Seventy-five
dollars a month in the bank for you--and dull, deadly monotony for both of us--no dreams--no
adventures--nothing big and fine! We can't be content with that! Why don't you go, John?

"Don't mind me--don't let me keep you--for as soon as you've won, you can come back to me--and
then--we'll see the world together!"

"Janet--Janet!" said Harber, with pounding heart. "How do you know--that I'll win?"

"Ah," she said strangely, "I know! You can't fail--I won't let you fail"!

Harber caught her suddenly in his arms and kissed her as if it were to be his last token of her.

"I'm going then!" he whispered. "I'm going!"

"When?"

"There's no time to be lost!" he said, thinking fast. "If I had known that you were willing,
that you would wait--if  ... Janet, I'm going to-morrow!"

Her arms tightened about him convulsively. "Promise me--promise me!" she demanded tensely,
"that you'll never, never forget me--that you'll come back to me!"

Harber laughed in her face. "Janet," he said solemnly, "I'll never forget you. I'll come back
to you. I'll come back--'though 'twere ten thousand mile!'"

And they walked home slowly, wrapt once more in their fascinating talk, fanning the flames
of one another's desires, painting for their future the rich landscapes of paradise. Youth!
Brave, hot youth!

The next day Harber contemptuously threw over his job in the bank and fared forth into the
wide world that was calling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, he went south, then east, then west, and west, and farther west. So far that presently,
after three years, he found himself not west at all, but east--far east. There were between
him and Janet Spencer now thousands on thousands of miles of vast heaving seas, and snow-capped
mountain ranges, and limitless grassy plains.

Three years of drifting! You'd say, perhaps, knowing the frailty of vows, that the connection
might have been lost. But it hadn't. Harber was but twenty-three. Faithfulness, too, comes
easier then than later in life, when one has seen more of the world, when the fine patina of
illusion has worn off. Besides, there was, I'm sure, a touch of genius about that girl, so
that one wouldn't forget her easily, certainly not in three years. And then, you know, Harber
had had her letters. Not many of them. Perhaps a dozen to the year.

Pitifully few, but they were filled with a wonderful fascination against which the realities
of his wandering life had been powerless to contend. Like a slender cable they bound him--they
held him!

Well, he was in Sydney now, standing on the water-front, beneath a bright-blue Australian sky,
watching the crinkling water in the Circular Quay as it lifted and fell mightily but easily,
and seeing the black ships ... ah, the ships! Those masterful, much more than human, entities
that slipped about the great world nosing out, up dark-green tropical rivers in black, fir-bound
fjords, through the white ice-flows of the Arctics, all its romance, all its gold! Three years
hadn't dulled the keen edge of his appetite for all that; rather had whetted it.

Nevertheless, as he stood there, he was thinking to himself that he must have done with wandering;
the old saw that a rolling stone gathered no moss was cropping up sharply, warningly, in his
mind. He had in the three years, however--and this is rather remarkable--accumulated about
three thousand dollars. Three thousand dollars! Why, in this quarter of the world, three thousand
dollars should be like three thousand of the scriptural mustard-seed--they should grow a veritable
forest!

What was puzzling him, however, was where to plant the seed. He was to meet here a man who
had a plan for planting in the islands. There were wild rumours afloat of the fortunes that
could be made in rubber and vanilla out in the Papuan "Back Beyond." Harber was only half inclined
to believe them, perhaps; but half persuaded is well along the way.

He heard his name called, and, turning, he saw a man coming toward him with the rolling gait
of the seaman. As he came closer, Harber observed the tawny beard, the sea-blue eyes surrounded
by the fine wrinkles of humour, the neat black clothing, the polished boots, and, above all,
the gold earrings that marked the man in his mind as Farringdon, the sea-captain who had been
anxious to meet him.

Harber answered the captain's gleam of teeth with one of his own, and they turned their backs
upon the water and went to Harber's room, where they could have their fill of talk undisturbed.
Harber says they talked all that afternoon and evening, and well into the next morning, enthusiastically
finding one another the veritable salt of the earth, honourable, level-headed, congenial, temperamentally
fitted for exactly what they had in mind--partnership.

"How much can you put in?" asked Harber finally.

"Five hundred pounds," said the captain.

"I can match you," said Harber.

"Man, but that's fine!" cried the captain. "I've been looking for you--you, you know--just
you--for the last two years! And when Pierson told me about you ... why, it's luck, I say!"

It was luck for Harber, too. Farringdon, you see, knew precisely where he wanted to go, and
he had his schooner, and he knew that part of the world, as we say, like a man knows his own
buttons. Harber, then, was to manage the plantation; they were going to set out rubber, both
Para and native, and try hemp and maybe coffee while they waited for the Haevia and the Ficus
to yield. And Farringdon was ready to put the earnings from his schooner against Harber's wage
as manager. The arrangement, you see, was ideal.

Skip seven years with me, please. Consider the plantation affair launched, carried, and consummated.
Farringdon and Harber have sold the rubber-trees as they neared bearing, and have sold them
well. They're out of that now. In all likelihood, Harber thinks, permanently. For that seven
years has seen other projects blossom. Harber, says Farringdon, has "the golden touch." There
has been trading in the islands, and a short and fortunate little campaign on the stock-market
through Sydney brokers, and there has been, more profitable than anything else, the salvaging
of the Brent Interisland Company's steamer Pailula by Farringdon's schooner, in which Harber
had purchased a half-interest; so the partners are, on the whole, rather well fixed. Harber
might be rated at, perhaps, some forty thousand pounds, not counting his interest in the schooner.

One of Janet Spencer's argosies, then, its cargo laden, is ready to set sail for the hills
of home. In short, Harber is now in one of the island ports of call, waiting for the steamer
from Fiji. In six weeks he will be in Tawnleytown if all goes well.

It isn't, and yet it is, the same Harber. He's thirty now, lean and bronzed and very fit. He
can turn a hundred tricks now where then he could turn one. The tropics have agreed with him.
There seems to have been some subtle affinity between them, and he almost wishes that he weren't
leaving them. He certainly wouldn't be, if it were not for Janet.

Yes, that slender thread has held him. Through ten years it has kept him faithful. He has eyed
askance, ignored, even rebuffed, women. The letters, that still come, have turned the trick,
perhaps, or some clinging to a faith that is inherent in him. Or sheer obstinacy? Forgive the
cynicism. A little of each, no doubt. And then he hadn't often seen the right sort of women.
I say that deliberately, because:

The night before the steamer was due there was a ball--yes, poor island exiles, they called
it that!--and Harber, one of some thirty "Europeans" there, went to it, and on the very eve
of safety ...

The glare and the oily smell of the lanterns, the odour of jasmine, frangipanni, vanilla, and
human beings sickeningly mingled in the heat, the jangling, out-of-tune music, the wearisome
island gossip and chatter, drove him at length out into the night, down a black-shadowed pathway
to the sea. The beach lay before him presently, gleaming like silver in the soft blue radiance
of the jewelled night. As he stood there, lost in far memories, the mellow, lemon-coloured
lights from the commissioner's residence shone beautifully from the fronded palms and the faint
wave of the waltzes of yesteryear became poignant and lovely, and the light trade-wind, clean
here from the reek of lamps and clothing and human beings, vaguely tanged with the sea, blew
upon him with a light, insistent pressure. Half dreaming, he heard the sharp sputter of a launch--bearing
belated comers to the ball, no doubt--but he paid no attention to it. He may have been on the
beach an hour before he turned to ascend to the town.

And just at the top of the slope he came upon a girl.

She hadn't perceived him, and she stood there, slim and graceful, the moonlight bright upon
her rapt face, with her arms outstretched and her head flung back, in an attitude of utter
abandonment. Harber felt his heart stir swiftly. He knew what she was feeling, as she looked
out over the shimmering half-moon of harbour, across the moaning white feather of reef, out
to the illimitable sea, and drank in the essence of the beauty of the night. Just so, at first,
had it clutched him with the pain of ecstasy, and he had never forgotten it. There would be
no voicing that feeling; it must ever remain inarticulate. Nor was the girl trying to voice
it. Her exquisite pantomime alone spelled her delight in it and her surrender to it.

He saw at a glance that he didn't know her. She was "new" to the islands. Her clothes were
evidence enough for that. There was a certain verve to them that spoke of a more sophisticated
land. She might have been twenty-five though she seemed younger. She was in filmy white from
slipper to throat, and over her slender shoulders there drifted a gossamer banner of scarf,
fluttering in the soft trade-wind. Harber was very close to see this, and still she hadn't
observed him.

"Don't let me startle you, please!" he said, as he stepped from the shadow of the trumpet-flower
bush that had hitherto concealed him.

Her arms came down slowly, her chin lowered; her pose, if you will, melted away. Her voice
when she spoke was low and round and thrilled, and it sent an answering thrill through Harber.

"I'm mad!" she said. "Moon-mad--or tropic-mad. I didn't hear you. I was worshipping the night!"

"As I have been," said Harber, feeling a sudden pagan kinship with her mood.

She smiled, and her smile seemed the most precious thing in the world. "You, too? But it isn't
new to you ...  and when the newness is gone every one--here at least--seems dead to it!"

"Sometimes I think it's always new," replied Harber. "And yet I've had years of it ... but
how did you know?"

"You're Mr. Harber, aren't you?"

"Yes. But---"

"Only that I knew you were here, having heard of you from the Tretheways, and I'd accounted
for every one else. I couldn't stay inside because it seemed to me that it was wicked when
I had come so far for just this, to be inside stuffily dancing. One can dance all the rest
of one's life in Michigan, you know! So----"

"It's the better place to be--out here," said Harber abruptly. "Need we go in?"

"I don't know," she said doubtfully. "Maybe you can tell me. You see, I've promised some dances.
What's the usage here? Dare I run away from them?"

"Oh, it might prove a three-day scandal if you did," said Harber. "But I know a bench off to
the right, where it isn't likely you'll be found by any questing partner, and you needn't confess
to having had a companion. Will you come and talk to me?"

"I'm a bird of passage," she answered, smiling, "and I've only to unfold my wings and fly away
from the smoke of scandal. Yes, I'll come--if you won't talk--too much. You see, after all,
I won't flatter you. It's the night I want, not talk ... the wonderful night!"

But, of course, they did talk. She was an American girl, she told him, and had studied art
a little, but would never be much of a painter. She had been teaching classes in a city high
school in the Middle West, when suddenly life there seemed to have gone humdrum and stale.
She had a little money saved, not much, but enough if she managed well, and she'd boldly resigned
and determined, once at least before she was too old, to follow spring around the world. She
had almost given up the idea of painting now, but thought presently she might go in for writing,
where, after all, perhaps, her real talent lay. She had gotten a letter of introduction in
Suva to the Tretheways and she would be here until the next steamer after the morrow's.

These were the bare facts. Harber gave a good many more than he got, he told me, upon the theory
that nothing so provoked confidence as giving it. He was a little mad himself that night, he
admits, or else very, very sane. As you will about that. But, from the moment she began to
talk, the thought started running through his head that there was fate in this meeting.

There was a sort of passionate fineness about her that caught and answered some instinct in
Harber ... and I'm afraid they talked more warmly than the length of their acquaintance justified,
that they made one another half-promises, not definite, perhaps, but implied; promises that....

"I must go in," she said at last, reluctantly.

He knew that she must, and he made no attempt to gainsay her.

"You are going to America," she went on. "If you should----"

And just at that moment, Harber says, anything seemed possible to him, and he said eagerly:
"Yes--if you will--I should like----"

How well they understood one another is evident from that. Neither had said it definitely,
but each knew.

"Have you a piece of paper?" she asked.

Harber produced a pencil, and groped for something to write upon. All that his pockets yielded
was a sealed envelope. He gave it to her.

She looked at it closely, and saw in the brilliant moonshine that it was sealed and stamped
and addressed.

"I'll spoil it for mailing," she said.

"It doesn't matter," Harber told her ineptly. "Or you can write it lightly, and I'll erase
it later."

There was a little silence. Then suddenly she laughed softly, and there was a tiny catch in
the voice. "So that you can forget?" she said bravely. "No! I'll write it fast and hard ...
so that you can ... never ... forget!"

And she gave him first his pencil and envelope, and afterward her hand, which Harber held for
a moment that seemed like an eternity and then let go. She went into the house, but Harber
didn't follow her. He went off to his so-called hotel.

In his room, by the light of the kerosene-lamp, he took out the envelope and reed what she
had written. It was:

Vanessa Simola, Claridon, Michigan.

He turned over the envelope and looked at the address on the other side, in his own handwriting:

Miss Janet Spencer, Tawnleytown....

And the envelope dropped from his nerveless fingers to the table.

Who shall say how love goes or comes? Its ways are a sacred, insoluble mystery, no less. But
it had gone for Harber: and just as surely, though so suddenly, had it come! Yes, life had
bitterly tricked him at last. She had sent him this girl ... too late! The letter in the envelope
was written to tell Janet Spencer that within six weeks he would be in Tawnleytown to claim
her in marriage.

One must be single-minded like Harber to appreciate his terrible distress of mind. The facile
infidelity of your ordinary mortal wasn't for Harber. No, he had sterner stuff in him.

Vanessa! The name seemed so beautiful ... like the girl herself, like the things she had said.
It was an Italian name. She had told him her people had come from Venice, though she was herself
thoroughly a product of America. "So that you can never forget," she had said. Ah, it was the
warm blood of Italy in her veins that had prompted that An American girl wouldn't have said that!

He slit the envelope, letting the letter fall to the table, and put it in his pocket.

Yet why should he save it? He could never see her again, he knew. Vain had been those half-promises,
those wholly lies, that his eyes and lips had given her. For there was Janet, with her prior
promises. Ten years Janet had waited for him ... ten years ... and suddenly, aghast, he realized
how long and how terrible the years are, how they can efface memories and hopes and desires,
and how cruelly they had dealt with him, though he had not realized it until this moment. Janet
... why, actually, Janet was a stranger, he didn't know Janet any more! She was nothing but
a frail phantom of recollection: the years had erased her! But this girl--warm, alluring, immediate....

No--no! It couldn't be.

So much will the force of an idea do for a man, you see. Because, of course, it could have
been. He had only to destroy the letter that lay there before him, to wait on until the next
sailing, to make continued love to Vanessa, and never to go to Tawnleytown again. There was
little probability that Janet would come here for him. Ten years and ten thousand miles ...
despite all that he had vowed on Bald Knob that Sunday so long ago, wouldn't you have said
that was barrier enough?

Why, so should I! But it wasn't.

For Harber took the letter and put it in a fresh envelope, and in the morning he went aboard
the steamer without seeing the girl again ... unless that bit of white standing near the top
of the slope, as the ship churned the green harbour water heading out to sea, were she, waving.

But he kept the address she had written.

Why? He never could use it. Well, perhaps he didn't want to forget too soon, though it hurt
him to remember. How many of us, after all, have some little memory like that, some intimate
communion with romance, which we don't tell, but cling to? And perhaps the memory is better
than the reality would have been. We imagine ... but that again is cynical. Harber will never
be that now. Let me tell you why.

It's because he hadn't been aboard ship on his crossing to Victoria twenty-four hours before
he met Clay Barton.

Barton was rolled up in rugs, lying in a deck-chair, biting his teeth hard together to keep
them from chattering, though the temperature was in the eighties, and most of the passengers
in white. Barton appeared to be a man of forty, whereas he turned out to be in his early twenties.
He was emaciated to an alarming degree and his complexion was of the pale, yellow-green that
spoke of many recurrences of malaria. The signs were familiar to Harber.

He sat down beside Barton, and, as the other looked at him half a dozen times tentatively,
he presently spoke to him.

"You've had a bad time of it, haven't you?"

"Terrible," said Barton frankly. "They say I'm convalescent now. I don't know. Look at me.
What would you say?"

Harber shook his head.

Barton laughed bitterly. "Yes, I'm pretty bad," he agreed readily. And then, as he talked that
day and the two following, he told Harber a good many things.

"I tell you, Harber," he said, "we'll do anything for money. Here I am--and I knew damned well
it was killing me, too. And yet I stuck it out six months after I'd any earthly business to--just
for a few extra hundreds."

"Where were you? What were you doing?" asked Harber.

"Trading-post up a river in the Straits Settlements," said Barton. "A crazy business from the
beginning--and yet I made money. Made it lots faster than I could have back home. Back there
you're hedged about with too many rules. And competition's too keen. You go into some big corporation
office at seventy-five a month, maybe, and unless you have luck you're years getting near anything
worth having. And you've got to play politics, bootlick your boss--all that. So I got out.

"Went to California first, and got a place in an exporting firm in San Francisco. They sent
me to Sydney and then to Fiji. After I'd been out for a while and got the hang of things, I
cut loose from them.

"Then I got this last chance, and it looked mighty good--and I expect I've done for myself
by it. Five years or a little better. That's how long I've lasted. Back home I'd have been
good for thirty-five. A short life and a merry one, they say. Merry. Good God!"

He shook his head ironically.

"The root of all evil," he resumed after a little. "Well, but you've got to have it--can't
get along without it in this world. You've done well, you say?"

Harber nodded.

"Well, so should I have, if the cursed fever had let me alone. In another year or so I'd have
been raking in the coin. And now here I am--busted--done--;--fini, as the French say. I burned
the candle at both ends--and got just what was coming to me, I suppose. But how could I let
go, just when everything was coming my way?"

"I know," said Harber. "But unless you can use it----"

"You're right there. Not much in it for me now. Still, the medicos say a cold winter back home
will.... I don't know. Sometimes I don't think I'll last to....

"Where's the use, you ask, Harber? You ask me right now, and I can't tell you. But if you'd
asked me before I got like this, I could have told you quick enough. With some men, I suppose,
it's just an acquisitive nature. With me, that didn't cut any figure. With me, it was a girl.
I wanted to make the most I could for her in the shortest time. A girl ... well...."

Harber nodded. "I understand. I came out for precisely the same reason myself," he remarked.

"You did?" said Barton, looking at him sadly. "Well, luck was with you, then. You look so--so
damned fit! You can go back to her ... while I ... ain't it hell? Ain't it?" he demanded fiercely.
"Yes," admitted Harber, "it is. But at the same time, I'm not sure that anything's ever really
lost. If she's worth while----"

Barton made a vehement sign of affirmation.

"Why, she'll be terribly sorry for you, but she won't care," concluded Harber. "I mean, she'll
be waiting for you, and glad to have you coming home, so glad that...."

"Ah ... yes. That's what ... I haven't mentioned the fever in writing to her, you see. It will
be a shock."

Harber, looking at him, thought that it would, indeed.

"I had a letter from her just before we sailed," went on the other, more cheerfully. "I'd like
awfully, some time, to have you meet her. She's a wonderful girl--wonderful. She's clever.
She's much cleverer than I am, really ...  about most things. When we get to Victoria, you
must let me give you my address."

"Thanks," said Harber. "I'll be glad to have it."

That was the last Harber saw of him for five days. The weather had turned rough, and he supposed
the poor fellow was seasick, and thought of him sympathetically, but let it rest there. Then,
one evening after dinner, the steward came for him and said that Mr. Clay Barton wanted to
see him. Harber followed to Barton's stateroom, which the sick man was occupying alone. In
the passageway near the door, he met the ship's doctor.

"Mr. Harber?" said the doctor. "Your friend in there--I'm sorry to say--is----"

"I suspected as much," said Harber. "He knows it himself, I think."

"Does he?" said the doctor, obviously relieved. "Well, I hope that he'll live till we get him
ashore. There's just a chance, of course, though his fever is very high now. He's quite lucid
just now, and has been insisting upon seeing you. Later he mayn't be conscious. So----"

Harber nodded. "I'll go in."

Barton lay in his berth, still, terribly thin, and there were two pink patches of fever burning
upon his cheek-bones. He opened his eyes with an infinite weariness as Harber entered the room,
and achieved a smile.

"Hard luck, old fellow," said Harber, crossing to him. "'Sall up!" said Barton, grinning gamely.
"I'm through. Asked 'em to send you in. Do something for me, Harber--tha's right, ain't it--Harber's
your name?"

"Yes. What is it, Barton?"

Barton closed his eyes, then opened them again.

"Doggone memory--playin' tricks," he apologized faintly. "This, Harber. Black-leather case
inside leather grip there--by the wall. Money in it--and letters. Everything goes--to the girl.
Nobody else. I know you're straight. Take 'em to her?"

"Yes," said Harber.

"Good," said Barton. "All right, then! Been expecting this. All ready for it. Name--address--papers--all
there. She'll have no trouble--getting money. Thanks, Harber." And after a pause, he added:
"Better take it now--save trouble, you know."

Harber got the leather case from the grip and took it at once to his own stateroom.

When he returned, Barton seemed for the moment, with the commission off his mind, a little
brighter.

"No end obliged, Harber," he murmured.

"All right," said Harber, "but ought you to talk?"

"Won't matter now," said Barton grimly. "Feel like talking now. To-morrow may be--too late!"
And after another pause, he went on: "The fine dreams of youth--odd where they end, isn't it?

"This--and me--so different. So different! Failure. She was wise--but she didn't know everything.
The world was too big--too hard for me. 'You can't fail,' she said, 'I won't let you fail!'
But you see----"

Harber's mind, slipping back down the years, with Barton, to his own parting, stopped with a jerk.

"What!" he exclaimed.

Barton seemed drifting, half conscious, half unconscious of what he was saying. He did not
appear to have heard Harber's exclamation over the phrase so like that Janet had given him.

"We weren't like the rest," droned Barton. "No--we wanted more out of life than they did.

Picture that scene, if you will. What would you have said? Harber saw leaping up before him,
with terrible clarity, as if it were etched upon his mind, that night in Tawnleytown ten years
before. It was as if Barton, in his semidelirium, were reading the words from his past!

"I won't let you fail! ... half a loaf ... the bravest adventures ... the yellowest gold."
Incredible thing! That Barton and his girl should have stumbled upon so many of the phrases,
the exact phrases! And suddenly full knowledge blinded Harber.... No! No! He spurned it. It
couldn't be. And yet, he felt that if Barton were to utter one more phrase of those that Janet
had said and, many, many times since, written to him, the impossible, the unbelievable, would
be stark, unassailable fact.

He put his hand upon Barton's arm and gently pressed it.

"Barton," he said, "tell me--Janet--Tawnleytown?"

Barton stared with glassy, unseeing eyes for a moment; then his eyelids fell.

"The bravest adventures--the yellowest gold," he murmured. Then, so faintly as almost to baffle
hearing: "Where--all--our--dreams? Gone--aglimmering. Gone."

That was all.

Impossible? No, just very, very improbable. But how, by its very improbability, it does take
on the semblance of design! See how by slender a thread the thing hung, how every corner of
the plan fitted. Just one slip Janet Spencer made; she let her thoughts and her words slip
into a groove; she repeated herself. And how unerringly life had put her finger upon that clew!
So reasoned Harber.

Well, if the indictment were true, there was proof to be had in Barton's leather case!

Harber, having called the doctor, went to his stateroom.

He opened the leather case. Inside a cover of yellow oiled silk he found first a certificate
of deposit for three thousand pounds, and beneath it a packet of letters.

He unwrapped them.

And, though somehow he had known it without the proof, at the sight of them something caught
at his heart with a clutch that made it seem to have stopped beating for a long time. For the
sprawling script upon the letters was almost as familiar to him as his own. Slowly he reached
down and took up the topmost letter, drew the thin shiny sheets from the envelope, fluttered
them, dazed, and stared at the signature:

Yours, my dearest lover, JANET.

Just so had she signed his letters. It was Janet Spencer. Two of her argosies, each one laden
with gold for her, had met in their courses, had sailed for a little together.

The first reasonable thought that came to Harber, when he was convinced of the authenticity
of the miracle, was that he was free--free to go after the girl he loved, after Vanessa Simola.
I think that if he could have done it, he'd have turned the steamer back to the Orient in that
moment. The thought that the ship was plunging eastward through a waste of smashing heavy seas
was maddening, no less!

He didn't want to see Janet or Tawnleytown, again. He did have, he told me, a fleeting desire
to know just how many other ships Janet might have launched, but it wasn't strong enough to
take him to see her. He sent her the papers and letters by registered mail under an assumed name.

And then he went to Claridon, Michigan, to learn of her people when Vanessa might be expected
home. They told him she was on her way. So, fearing to miss her if he went seeking, he settled
down there and stayed until she came. It was seven months of waiting he had ... but it was
worth it in the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

And that was Harber's romance. Just an incredible coincidence, you say. I know it. I told Harber
that. And Mrs. Harber.

And she said nothing at all, but looked at me inscrutably, with a flicker of scorn in her sea-gray
eyes.

Harber smiled lazily and serenely, and leaned back in his chair, and replied in a superior
tone: "My dear Sterne, things that are made in heaven--like my marriage--don't just happen.
Can't you see that your stand simply brands you an unbeliever?"

And, of course, I can see it. And Harber may be right. I don't know. Does any one, I wonder?

ALMA MATER

BY O. F. LEWIS

From The Red Book

Professor Horace Irving had taught Latin for nearly forty years at Huntington College. Then
he had come back to Stuyvesant Square, in New York. Now he lived in a little hall bedroom,
four flights up, overlooking the Square.

Habitually he walked from the Square westward to Fourth Avenue, in the afternoon, when the
weather permitted. He had been born only three doors from where he now lived. The house of
his birth had gone. It was sixty years since he had been a boy and played in this Square. Now
he would pause at the corner of Fourth Avenue in his walks, and remember the Goelet's cow and
the big garden and the high iron fence at Nineteenth Street and Broadway. Great buildings now
towered there.

South along Fourth Avenue he would walk, a little man, scarcely five feet four in height, even
with the silk hat and the Prince Albert coat. His white hair grew long over his collar, and
people would notice that almost more than anything else about him. He may have weighed between
ninety and a hundred pounds. The coat was worn and shiny, but immaculate. The tall hat was
of a certain type and year, but carefully smoothed and still glossy.

He would pause often, between Nineteenth Street and Eighteenth Street, peopling the skyscrapers
with ghosts of a former day, when houses and green gardens lined the streets. The passers-by
watched him casually, perhaps as much as any one notices any one else in New York. He was,
in the Fourteenth Street district, a rarer specimen than Hindus or Mexican medicine-men. Through
the ten years since he had come, pensioned, from Huntington College, he had become a walking
landmark in this region.

He always walked down on the east side of the street, crossing at Fourteenth Street. He was
carefully piloted, and saluted, by the traffic policeman. It was a bad crossing. Below Fourteenth
Street things looked much more as they had looked when he was young.

The bookstores were an unceasing hobby to the old man. The secondhand dealers never made any
objection to his reading books upon the shelves. His purchases were perhaps two books a week,
at ten or even five cents each. Now and again he would find one of his own "Irving's Latin
Prose Composition" texts in the five-cent pile. Opening the book, he usually would discover
strange pencilled pictures drawn scrawlingly over many of the pages. His "Latin Composition"
wasn't published after 1882, the year the firm failed. It might have been different for him,
with a different publisher.

Late one afternoon in April, Professor Irving stood in his customary niche at the corner of
Fourth Avenue and Ninth Street, watching the traffic from a sheltered spot against the wall
of the building. He was becoming exceedingly anxious about the approaching storm. It had come
up since he left Stuyvesant Square, and he had no umbrella. He must not get his silk hat wet.
His thin overcoat was protecting him but feebly from the wind, which with the disappearance
of the sun had grown sharp and biting. It was rapidly becoming dark. Lights were flashing in
the windows up and down the Avenue.

The Professor decided to stand in a doorway till the shower had passed over. The chimes in
the Metropolitan Tower struck the first quarter after four, the sounds welling in gusts to
the old man's ears. A little man came to stand in the doorway beside the Professor. The latter
saw that the little man had a big umbrella. Silk hats were so fearfully expensive in these days!

The heavy drops beat against the pavement in torrents. The first flash of lightning of the
year was followed by a deep roll of thunder.

"I got to go!" said the little man. "Keep the umbrella! I got another where I work. I'm only
fifty-five. You're older than me, a lot. You better start home. You'll get soaked, standing
here!" And the little man was gone before the Professor could reply.

"An exceedingly kindly, simple man," thought the old Professor. He had planned, while standing
with his unknown benefactor, that he would go into some store and wait. But now he would chance
it, and cross the street. He saw a lull in the traffic. He started and was nearly swept off
his feet. He got to the middle of the street. The umbrella grew unwieldy, swinging this way
and that, as if tugged by unseen hands. It turned inside out. Blaring noises from the passing
cars confused the Professor.

The shaft of the umbrella swung violently around and knocked the silk hat from Professor Irving's
head. His white hair was caught by the wind. Lashed in another direction, the shaft now struck
the Professor's glasses, and they flew away. Now he could see little or nothing. He became
bewildered.

Great glaring headlights broke upon him, passed him, and then immediately other glaring lights
flared up toward him out of the sheets of water. He couldn't see because of his lost glasses
and because of the stinging rain. He rushed between two cars. He slipped....

The chimes on the Metropolitan Tower rang out, in wails of wild sound, the half-hour after four.

       *       *       *       *       *

The attendance that evening at the annual banquet of the New York alumni of Huntington College
exceeded all previous records. The drive for two million five hundred thousand dollars was
on. It was a small college, but as Daniel Webster said of Dartmouth, there were those who loved it.

The east ballroom of the hotel was well filled with diners. Recollections of college days were
shouted across tables and over intervening aisles. There was a million still to raise: but
old Huntington would put it across! They'd gotten out more of the older men, the men with money,
than had ever been seen before at an alumni dinner.

The income on one million would go into better salaries for the professors and other teachers.
They'd been shamefully underpaid--men who'd been on the faculty twenty to thirty years getting
two thousand! Well, Huntington College had now a new president, one of the boys of twenty years
ago. Yes sir, things were different. It was in the air.

In the midst of the dinner course, the toastmaster rapped loudly with the gavel for attention.
It was hard to obtain quiet.

"Men," said the toastmaster, and there was a curious note in his voice, "I ask your absolute
silence. Middleton, whom you all know is one of the editorial staff of the Sphere, has just
come in. He can stay only a few minutes. He came especially to tell you something."

A man standing behind the toastmaster stepped into the toastmaster's place. He was in business
clothes, a sharp contrast to the rest of the diners. He was loudly applauded. He raised his
right hand and shook his head.

"Boys," he said, "I've got a tragic piece of news for you--for those of you who were in college
any time up to ten years ago." He paused and looked the diners over.

"Four fifths of you men who are here to-night knew old Hoddy Irving, our 'prof' in Latin. He
served old Huntington College for forty years, the longest term any professor ever served.
He made no demands--ever. He took us freshmen under his wing. I used to walk now and then with
him, miles around the college, when it wasn't so built up as it now is. He loved the fields
and the animals and the trees. He taught me a lot of things besides Latin. Don't you remember
the funny little walk he had, sort of a hop forward? Don't you remember the way he'd come up
to the college dormitories nights, sometimes, from his house down on the Row, and knock timidly
at our doors, and come in and visit? Don't you remember that we used to clear some of those
tables mighty quickly, of the chips and the bottles?"

There were titters, and some one shouted: "You said it!"

"And then, don't you remember, that some ten years ago they turned the old man off, with a
pension--so-called--of half his salary. But what was his salary? Two thousand dollars--two
thousand dollars at the end of forty years!! You and I, and old Huntington College, turned
old Hoddy out to pasture, this pasture, on a thousand a year! And to-night, right now, he's
lying in Bellevue, both legs broken, skull fractured, and not a damn cent in the world except
insurance enough to bury him. And to-morrow he'll be ours to bury, boys--old Hoddy Irving!"

A confusion of voices rose in the room, and over them all a "No!" from some one who seemed
to cry out in pain.

"Yes!" said Middleton as the murmurs ceased. "Our old Hoddy, starving, loaded up with debt,
alone, down in a miserable hall bedroom in Stuyvesant Square. How did I come to know about
it? One of our reporters, who covers Bellevue, dug up the story in his day's work. They brought
in this old, disheveled, unconscious man--and in his pocket was his name. Kenyon, the reporter,
went over to the house on the Square and found there another old fellow that old Hoddy chummed
some with, and who knew all the circumstances.

"It seems Hoddy had an invalid old sister--and they hadn't any money except this pension. How
the two old souls got along no one will never know. But she died awhile ago, and that put Hoddy
into a lot more debt. And this miserable little eighty dollars a month has had to carry him
and his debts. And not a whimper that old man utters. Always kindly, Hoddy was, always telling
stories from the forty years at Huntington--and we fellows here, a lot of us rotten with money,
and not knowing that the old fellow---"

Middleton's voice broke. It was some time before he proceeded.

"This afternoon, at the corner of Fourth Avenue and Ninth Street, just as that tornado broke,
he tried to cross the street. He got in a jam of cars, and of course the windshields were all
mussed up with rain, and the chauffeurs couldn't see anything ahead--and they don't know whose
car it was. The police say it was just four thirty-one when they picked him up.

"Well, that's all, except that--I'm going down to Bellevue, and if one or two of you want to
come--perhaps old Hoddy will know us--even this late."

Middleton had finished. From various parts of the room came the words: "I'll go! Let me go!"
Men were frankly wiping their eyes.

At a distant table arose Martin Delano. He was reputed to be the wealthiest alumnus of Huntington.
He was said to have made almost fabulous millions during the war. In the Street he was known
as "Merciless Martin." They were planning to strike him this evening for at least a hundred
thousand.

Martin Delano stood holding the edge of the table with one hand, the other fingering a spoon
on the table. He stood there long. Several times he opened his lips as though to speak. He
took out his handkerchief and wiped his cheeks and forehead. Evidently he was deeply moved.

"Mr. Toastmaster, may I ask the privilege of going down to Bellevue with Mr. Middleton? I would
ask that I be allowed to insist on going down. I have sinned, grievously sinned, in forgetting
old Hoddy. Now, when it's too late----Thirty years ago, and more, when I was a green, frightened
freshman from Vermont, he took me to his heart. He was known as the Freshman's Friend. That's
what Hoddy always did--take the green and frightened freshman to his heart. Probably, if he
hadn't done that to me, I'd have gone back home in my lonesomeness. And then----

"Yes, I have sinned--and it might have been so different. I want to go down there! And I'm
coming back here, before you men are through to-night, and I'll tell you more."

At about half-past ten Martin Delano came back. He walked into the room just as one of the
speakers had finished. The toastmaster caught his eye and beckoned to him to come to the speaker's
table. Delano stood in front of the crowd. He had walked forward, seeing no one on his way.

"Hoddy--Hoddy has gone, boys!"

Then quickly, silently, the three hundred men arose and stood. After a time they heard Delano
say: "Sit down, boys."

He waited till they were seated. "There's a lot that I might tell, men--terrible things--that
I won't tell, for it's all over. Just this--and I suppose you're about through now and breaking
up. It was the poor old Prof. of ours--shattered, deathly white, a lot older. But will you
believe it, the same dear old smile, or almost a smile, on his face! Unconscious, but babbling.
And about what? The college--Alma Mater! Those were just the words--Alma Mater! The college
that gave him the half pay and forgot him on the very night when we are trying to raise a miserable
two million, that things like this sha'n't happen again!"

"And boys, when we bent over him and whispered our names, he seemed after a while to understand
that we were there--but in the classroom, the old Number 3 in Holmes Hall! And fellows, he
called on--on me to recite----"

Merciless Martin Delano couldn't go on. Finally he spoke.

"And so, Mr. President, I wish, sir, as a slight token of my appreciation of what that simple
great man has done for Huntington College to give to our Alma Mater--our Alma Mater, sir--the
sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to be used for the erection of a suitable building,
for whatever purpose is most necessary, and that building to be called after Horace Irving.

"And sir, I also desire to give to the fund for properly providing for the salaries of our
professors and other teachers, the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars--those men
who teach in our Alma Mater.

"And I ask one word more: I have arranged that Professor Irving is to be buried from my house.
If you will permit me, I will leave now."

The alumni of Huntington College were silent. There was no sound, save the occasional pushing
of a chair, or the click of a plate or a glass upon the table, as Martin Delano passed from
the room.

It was after one o'clock. Martin Delano was in his library, his arms flung across the table,
his face between them.

In the opaque blur of swirling rain, his car had passed the corner of Fourth Avenue and Ninth
Street at precisely half-past four that afternoon. He had happened to take out his watch at
the moment the Metropolitan clock struck the second quarter.

He would never know whether it had been his car or another!

SLOW POISON

BY ALICE DUER MILLER

From The Saturday Evening Post

The Chelmsford divorce had been accomplished with the utmost decorum, not only outwardly in
the newspapers, but inwardly among a group of intimate friends. They were a homogeneous couple--were
liked by the same people, enjoyed the same things, and held many friends in common. These were
able to say with some approach to certainty that everyone had behaved splendidly, even the
infant of twenty-three with whom Julian had fallen in love.

Of course there will always be the question--and we used to argue it often in those days--how
well a man can behave who, after fifteen perfectly satisfactory years of married life, admits
that he has fallen in love with another woman. But if you believe in the clap-of-thunder theory,
as I do, why, then, for a man nearing forty, taken off his feet by a blond-headed girl, Julian,
too, behaved admirably.

As for Mrs. Julian, there was never any doubt as to her conduct. I used to think her--and I
was not alone in the opinion--the most perfect combination of gentleness and power, and charity
and humour, that I had ever seen. She was a year or so older than Julian--though she did not
look it--and a good deal wiser, especially in the ways of the world; and, oddly enough, one
of the features that worried us most in the whole situation was how he was ever going to get
on, in the worldly sense, without her. He was to suffer not only from the loss of her counsel
but from the lack of her indorsement. There are certain women who are a form of insurance to
a man; and Anne gave a poise and solidity to Julian's presentation of himself which his own
flibbertigibbet manner made particularly necessary.

I think this view of the matter disturbed Anne herself, though she was too clever to say so;
or perhaps too numbed by the utter wreck of her own life to see as clearly as usual the rocks
ahead of Julian. It was she, I believe, who first mentioned, who first thought of divorce,
and certainly she who arranged the details. Julian, still in the more ideal stage of his emotion,
had hardly wakened to the fact that his new love was marriageable. But Mrs. Julian, with the
practical eye of her sex, saw in a flash all it might mean to him, at his age, to begin life
again with a young beauty who adored him.

She saw this, at least, as soon as she saw anything; for Julian, like most of us when the occasion
rises, developed a very pretty power of concealment. He had for a month been seeing Miss Littell
every day before any of us knew that he went to see her at all. Certainly Anne, unsuspicious
by nature, was unprepared for the revelation.

It took place in the utterly futile, unnecessary way such revelations always do take place.
The two poor innocent dears had allowed themselves a single indiscretion; they had gone out
together, a few days before Christmas, to buy some small gifts for each other. They had had
an adventure with a beggar, an old man wise enough to take advantage of the holiday season,
and the no less obvious holiday in the hearts of this pair. He had forced them to listen to
some quaint variant of the old story, and they had between them given him all the small change
they had left--sixty-seven cents, I think it was.

That evening at dinner Julian, ever so slightly afraid of the long pause, had told Anne the
story as if it had happened to him alone. A few days afterward the girl, whom she happened
to meet somewhere or other, displaying perhaps a similar nervousness, told the same story.
Even the number of cents agreed.

I spoke a moment ago of the extraordinary power of concealment which we all possess; but I
should have said the negative power to avoid exciting suspicion. Before that moment, before
the finger points at us, the fool can deceive the sage; and afterward not even the sage can
deceive the veriest fool.

Julian had no desire to lie to his wife. Indeed, he told me he had felt from the first that
she would be his fittest confidante. He immediately told her everything--a dream rather than
a narrative.

Nowhere did Anne show her magnanimity more than in accepting the rather extravagant financial
arrangements which Julian insisted on making for her. He was not a rich man, and she the better
economist of the two. We knew she saw that in popular esteem Julian would pay the price of
her pride if she refused, and that in this ticklish moment of his life the least she could
do was to let him have the full credit for his generosity.

"And after all," as she said to me, "young love can afford to go without a good many things
necessary to old age."

It was the nearest I heard her come to a complaint.

As soon as everything was settled she sailed for Florence, where she had friends and where,
she intimated, she meant to spend most of her time.

I said good-by to her with real emotion, and the phrase I used as to my wish to serve her was
anything but a convention.

Nor did she take it so.

"Help Julian through this next year," she said. "People will take it harder than he knows.
He'll need you all." And she was kind enough to add something about my tact. Poor lady! She
must have mentally withdrawn her little compliment before we met many times again.

II

Perhaps the only fault in Anne's education of her husband had been her inability to cling.
In his new menage this error was rectified, and the effect on him was conspicuously good; in
fact, I think Rose's confidence in his greatness pulled them through the difficult time.

For there was no denying that it was difficult. Many people looked coldly on them, and I know
there was even some talk of asking him to resign from the firm of architects of which he was
a member. The other men were all older, and very conservative. Julian represented to them everything
that was modern and dangerous. Granger, the leading spirit, was in the habit of describing
himself as holding old-fashioned views, by which he meant that he had all the virtues of the
Pilgrim Fathers and none of their defects. I never liked him, but I could not help respecting
him. The worst you could say of him was that his high standards were always successful.

You felt that so fanatical a sense of duty ought to have required some sacrifices.

To such a man Julian's conduct appeared not only immoral but inadvisable, and unfitting in
a young man, especially without consulting his senior partners.

We used to say among ourselves that Granger's reason for wanting to get rid of Julian was not
any real affection for the dim old moral code, but rather his acute realization that without
Anne his junior partner was a less valuable asset.

Things were still hanging fire when I paid her the first of my annual visits. She was dreadfully
distressed at my account of the situation. She had the manner one sometimes sees in dismissed
nurses who meet their former little charges unwashed or uncared for. She could hardly believe
it was no longer her business to put the whole matter right.

"Can't she do something for him?" she said. "Make her bring him a great building. That would
save him."

It was this message that I carried home to Rose; at least I suggested the idea to her as if
it were my own. I had my doubts of her being able to carry it out.

Out of loyalty to Julian, or perhaps I ought to say out of loyalty to Anne, we had all accepted
Rose, but we should soon have loved her in any case. She was extraordinarily sweet and docile,
and gave us, those at least who were not parents, our first window to the east, our first link
with the next generation, just at the moment when we were relinquishing the title ourselves.
I am afraid that some of the males among us envied Julian more than perhaps in the old days
we had ever envied him Anne.

But we hardly expected her to further his career as Anne had done, and yet, oddly enough, that
was exactly what she did. Her methods had all the effectiveness of youth and complete conviction.
She forced Julian on her friends and relations, not so much on his account as on theirs. She
wanted them to be sure of the best. The result was that orders flowed in. Things took a turn
for the better and continued to improve, as I was able to report to Anne when I went to see
her at Florence or at Paris. She was always well lodged, well served, and surrounded by the
pleasantest people, yet each time I saw her she had a look exiled and circumscribed, a look
I can only describe as that of a spirit in reduced circumstances.

She was always avid for details of Julian and all that concerned him, and as times improved
I was stupid enough to suppose I pleased her by giving them from the most favourable angle.
It seemed to me quite obvious, as I saw how utterly she had ruined her own life, that she ought
at least to have the comfort of knowing that she had not sacrificed it in vain. And so I allowed
myself, not an exaggeration but a candour more unrestrained than would be usual in the circumstances.

Led on by her burning interest I told her many things I might much better have kept to myself;
not only accounts of his work and his household and any new friends in our old circle, but
we had all been amazed to see a sense of responsibility develop in Julian in answer to his
new wife's dependence on him. With this had come a certain thoughtfulness in small attentions,
which, I saw too late, Anne must always have missed in him. She was so much more competent
in the smaller achievements of life than he that it had been wisdom to leave them to her; and
Anne had often traveled alone and attended to the luggage, when now Rose was personally conducted
like a young empress. The explanation was simple enough: Anne had the ability to do it, and
the other had not. Even if I had stopped to think, I might fairly have supposed that Anne would
find some flattery in the contrast. I should have been wrong.

Almost the first thing she asked me was whether he came home to luncheon. In old times, though
his house was only a few blocks from his office, he had always insisted that it took too much
time. Anne had never gained her point with him, though she put some force into the effort.
Now I had to confess he did.

"It's much better for him," she said with pleasure, and quite deceived me; herself, too, perhaps.

Yet even I, for all my blindness, felt some uneasiness the year Rose's son was born. I do not
think the desire for offspring had ever taken up a great deal of room in Julian's consciousness,
but of course Anne had wanted children, and I felt very cruel, sitting in her little apartment
in Paris, describing the baby who ought to have been hers. How different her position would
have been now if she had some thin-legged little girl to educate or some raw-boned boy to worry
over; and there was that overblessed woman at home, necessary not only to Julian but to Julian's
son.

It was this same year, but at a later visit, that I first became aware of a change in Anne.
At first the charm of her surroundings, her pretty clothes, even to the bright little buckles
on her shoes, blinded me to the fact that she herself was changed. I do not mean that she was
aged. One of the delightful things about her was that she was obviously going to make an admirable
old lady; the delicate boniness of her face and the clearness of her skin assured that. This
was a change more fundamental. Even in her most distracted days Anne had always maintained
a certain steadiness of head. She had trodden thorny paths, but she had always known where
she was going. I had seen her eyelids red, but I had never failed to find in the eyes themselves
the promise of a purpose. But now it was gone. I felt as if I were looking into a little pool
which had been troubled by a stone, and I waiting vainly for the reflection to re-form itself.

So painful was the impression that before I sailed for home I tried to convey to her the dangers
of her mood.

"I think you are advising me to be happy," she said.

"I am advising no such thing," I answered. "I am merely pointing out that you run the risk
of being more unhappy than you are. My visits--or rather the news I bring you--are too important
to you. You make me feel as if it were the only event of the year--to you who have always had
such an interesting life of your own."

"I have not had a life of my own since I was twenty," she returned. It was at twenty she had
married.

"Then think of Julian," I said, annoyed not only at my own clumsiness but at the absence of
anything of Anne's old heroic spirit. "For his sake, at least, you must keep your head. Why,
my dear woman, one look at your face, grown as desperate as it sometimes appears now, would
ruin Julian with the whole world. Even I, knowing the whole story, would find it hard to forgive
him if you should fail to continue to be the splendid triumphant creature whom we know you
were designed to be."

She gave me a long queer look, which meant something tremendous. Evidently my words had made
an impression.

They had, but not just the one I intended.

III

One of the first people I always saw on returning was Julian. How often he thought of Anne
I do not know, but he spoke of her with the greatest effort. He invariably took care to assure
himself that she was physically well, but beyond this it would have been a brave person who
dared to go. He did not want to hear the details of her life and appearance.

It was with some trepidation, therefore, that a few months after this I came to tell him that
Anne was about to return to America. Why she was coming, or for how long, her letter did not
say. I only knew that the second Saturday in December would see her among us again. It seemed
fair to assume that her stay would not be long. Julian evidently thought so for he arranged
to be in the West for three or four weeks.

I went to meet her. The day was cold and rainy, and as soon as I saw her I made up my mind
that the crossing had been a bad one, and I was glad no one else had come to the wharf with
me. She was standing by the rail, wrapped in a voluminous fur coat--the fashions were slim
in the extreme--and her hat was tied on by a blue veil.

I may as well admit that from the moment I heard of her projected return I feared that her
real motive for coming, conscious or unconscious, was to see Julian again. So when I told her
of his absence I was immensely relieved that she took it as a matter of course.

"I suppose we might have met," she observed. "As it is, I can go about without any fear of
an awkward encounter." I say I was relieved, but I was also excessively puzzled. Why had Anne
come home?

It was a question I was to hear answered in a variety of ways during the next few months, by
many of Anne's friends and partisans; for, as I think I have said, Anne had inspired great
attachment since her earliest days. Why had she come home? they exclaimed. Why not, pray? Had
she done anything criminal that she was to be exiled? Did I think it pleasant to live abroad
on a small income? Even if she could get on without her friends, could they do without her?

The tone of these questions annoyed me not a little when I heard them, which was not for some
time. Soon after Anne's arrival I, too, was called away, and it was not until February that
I returned and was met by the carefully set piece--Anne the Victim.

With that ill-advised self-confidence of which I have already made mention, I at once set about
demolishing this picture. I told Anne's friends, who were also mine, that she would thank them
very little for their attitude. I found myself painting her life abroad as a delirium of intellect
and luxury. I even found myself betraying professional secrets and arguing with total strangers
as to the amount of her income.

Even in Montreal faint echoes of this state of things had reached me, but not until I went
to see Anne on my return did I get any idea of their cause. She had taken a furnished apartment
from a friend, in a dreary building in one of the West Forties. Only a jutting front of limestone
and an elevator man in uniform saved it, or so it seemed to me, from being an old-fashioned
boarding house. Its windows, small, as if designed for an African sun, looked northward upon
a darkened street. Anne's apartment was on the second floor, and the requirements of some caryatids
on the outside rendered her fenestration particularly meager. Her friend, if indeed it were
a friend, had not treated her generously in the matter of furniture. She had left nothing superfluous
but two green glass jugs on the mantelpiece, and had covered the chairs with a chintz, the
groundwork of which was mustard colour.

Another man who was there when I came in, who evidently had known Anne in different surroundings,
expressed the most hopeful view possible when he said that doubtless it would all look charming
when she had arranged her own belongings.

Anne made a little gesture. "I haven't any belongings," she said.

I didn't know what she meant, perhaps merely a protest against the tyranny of things, but I
saw the effect her speech produced on her auditor. Perhaps she saw it too, for presently she
added: "Oh, yes! I have one."

And she went away, and came back carrying a beautiful old silver loving cup. I knew it well.
It came from Julian's forebears. Anne had always loved it, and I was delighted that she should
have it now. She set it on a table before a mirror, and here it did a double share to make
the room possible.

When we were alone I expressed my opinion of her choice of lodgings.

"This sunless cavern!" I said. "This parlour-car furniture!"

She looked a little hurt. "You don't like it?" she said.

"Do you?" I snapped back.

After a time I had recourse to the old argument that it didn't look well; that it wasn't fair
to Julian. But she had been expecting this.

"My dear Walter," she answered, "you must try to be more consistent. In Paris you told me that
I must cease to regulate my life by Julian. You were quite right. This place pleases me, and
I don't intend to go to a hotel, which I hate, or to take a house, which is a bother, in order
to soothe Julian's feelings. I have begun to lead my life to suit myself."

The worst of it was, I could think of no answer.

A few evenings afterward we dined at the same house. Anne arrived with a scarf on her head,
under the escort of a maid. She had come in a trolley car. Nobody's business but her own, perhaps,
if she would have allowed it to remain so, but when she got up to go, and other people were
talking of their motors' being late, Anne had to say: "Mine is never late; it goes past the
corner every minute."

I could almost hear a sigh, "Poor angel!" go round the room.

The next thing that happened was that Julian sent for me. He was in what we used to call in
the nursery "a state."

"What's this I hear about Anne's being hard up?" he said. "Living in a nasty flat, and going
out to dinner in the cars?" And he wouldn't listen to an explanation. "She must take more;
she must be made to take more."

I had one of my most unfortunate inspirations. I thought I saw an opportunity for Julian to
make an impression.

"I don't think she would listen to me," I said. "Why don't you get Mr. Granger to speak to her?"

The idea appealed to Julian. He admired Mr. Granger, and remembered that he and Anne had been
friends. Whereas I thought, of course, that Mr. Granger would thus be made to see that the
fault, if there were a fault, was not of Julian's generosity. Stupidly enough I failed to see
that if Julian's offer was graceful Anne's gesture of refusal would be upon a splendid scale.

And it must have been very large, indeed, to stir old Granger as it did. He told me there had
been tears in his eyes while she spoke of her husband's kindness. Kindness! He could not but
compare her surroundings with the little house, all geraniums and muslin curtains, in which
the new Mrs. Chelmsford was lodged. Anne had refused, of course. In the circumstances she could
not accept. She said she had quite enough for a single woman. The phrase struck Granger as
almost unbearably pathetic.

One day I noticed the loving cup--which was always on Anne's table, which was admired by everyone
who came to the apartment, and was said to recall her, herself, so pure and graceful and perfect--one
day the loving cup was gone.

I was so surprised when my eye fell on its vacant place that I blurted out: "Goodness, Anne,
where's your cup?"

The next moment I could have bitten out my tongue. Anne stood still in the middle of the room,
twisting her hands a little, and everyone--there were three or four of us there--stopped talking.

"Oh," she said, "oh, Walter, I know you'll scold me for being officious and wrong-headed, but
I have sent the cup back to Julian's son. I think he ought to have it."

Everyone else thought the deed extremely noble. I took my hat and went to Rose. Rose was not
very enthusiastic. A beautiful letter had accompanied the cup. We discussed the advisability
of sending it back; but of course that would have done no good. The devilish part of a favour
is that to accept or reject it is often equally incriminating. Anne held the situation in the
hollow of her hand. Besides, as Rose pointed out, we couldn't very well return it without asking
Julian, and we had both agreed that for the present Julian had better remain in ignorance of
the incident. He would have thought it mean-spirited to allow any instance of Anne's generosity
to remain concealed from the public. Rose and I were willing to allow it to drop.

I was sorry, therefore, when I found, soon after, not only that everyone knew of the gift but
that phrases of the beautiful letter itself were current, with marks of authenticity upon them.
It was not hard to trace them to Anne's intimates.

I have no idea to this day whether Anne was deliberately trying to ruin the man for whom she
had sacrificed so much; or whether one of those large, unconscious, self-indulgent movements
of our natures was carrying her along the line of least resistance. There are some people,
I know, who can behave well only so long as they have the centre of the stage, and are driven
by a necessity almost moral to regain such a place at any cost, so that they may once again
begin the exercise of their virtues.

Anne's performance was too perfect, I thought, for conscious art, and she was not a genius.
She was that most dangerous of all engines, a good person behaving wickedly. All her past of
high-mindedness and kindness protected her now like an armour from the smallest suspicion.
All the grandeur of her conduct at the time of the divorce was remembered as a proof that she
at least had a noble soul. Who could doubt that she wished him well?

If so, she soon appeared to be the only person who did. For, as we all know, pity is one of
the most dangerous passions to unloose. It demands a victim. We rise to pathos, only over the
dead bodies of our nearest and dearest.

Every phrase, every gesture of Anne's stirred one profoundly, and it was inevitable, I suppose,
that Julian should be selected as the sacrifice. I noticed that people began to speak of him
in the past, though he was still moving among us--"As Julian used to say."

He and Anne fortunately never met, but she and the new Mrs. Julian had one encounter in public.
If even then Anne would have shown the slightest venom all might still have been well. But,
no, the worn, elderly woman, face to face with the young beauty who had possessed herself of
everything in the world, showed nothing but a tenderness so perfect that every heart was wrung.
I heard Rose criticized for not receiving her in the same spirit.

The next day Julian was blackballed at a philanthropic club at which he had allowed himself
to be proposed merely from a sense of civic duty.

Over the incident I know Anne wept. I heard her tears.

"Oh, if I could have spared him that!" she said.

My eyes were cold, but those of Mr. Granger, who came in while her eyelids were still red,
were full of fire.

She spent a week with the Grangers that summer. The whole family--wife, sons and daughters--had
all yielded to the great illusion.

It must not be supposed that I had failed to warn Julian. The supineness of his attitude was
one of the most irritating features of the case. He answered me as if I were violating the
dead; asked me if by any chance I didn't see he deserved all he was getting.

No one was surprised when in the autumn he resigned from his firm. There had been friction
between the partners for some time. Soon afterward he and Rose sailed for Italy, where they
have lived ever since. He had scarcely any income except that which he made in his profession;
his capital had gone to Anne. He probably thought that what he had would go further abroad.

I do not know just how Anne took his departure, except that I am sure she was wonderful about
it. I had ceased to see her. She has, however, any number of new friends, whose fresh interest
in her story keeps it continually alive. She has given up her ugly flat and taken a nice little
house, and in summer I notice she has red geraniums in the window boxes. I often see a nice
little motor standing before her door--the result doubtless of a year's economy.

Whenever her friends congratulate her on the improvement in her finances she says she owes
it all to me--I am such an excellent man of business.

"I admire Walter so much," I am told she says, "though I'm afraid I have lost him as a friend.
But then, in the last few years I have lost so much." And she smiles that brave sad smile of hers.

THE FACE IN THE WINDOW

BY WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY

From The Red Book

At nine o'clock this morning Sheriff Crumpett entered our New England town post-office for
his mail. From his box he extracted his monthly Grand Army paper and a letter in a long yellow
envelope. This envelope bore the return-stamp of a prominent Boston lumber-company. The old
man crossed the lobby to the writing-shelf under the Western Union clock, hooked black-rimmed
glasses on a big nose and tore a generous inch from the end of the envelope.

The first inclosure which met his eyes was a check. It was heavy and pink and crisp, and was
attached to the single sheet of letter-paper with a clip. Impressed into the fabric of the
safety-paper were the indelible figures of a protector: Not over Five Thousand ($5000) Dollars.

The sheriff read the name of the person to whom it was payable and gulped. His gnarled old
hand trembled with excitement as he glanced over the clipped letter and then went through it again.

  November 10, 1919.

  MY DEAR SHERIFF:

  Enclosed please find my personal check for five thousand dollars.
  It is made out to Mrs. McBride. Never having known the lady
       personally,
  and because you have evidently represented her with the authorities,
  I am sending it to you for proper delivery. I feel, from your
  enthusiastic account of her recent experience, that it will give
       you
  pleasure to present it to her.

  Under the circumstances I do not begrudge the money. When first
  advised of Ruggam's escape, it was hot-headed impulse which
       prompted
  me to offer a reward so large. The old clan-blood of the Wileys
       must
  have made me murder-mad that Ruggam should regain his freedom
       permanently
  after the hellish thing he did to my brother. The newspapers heard
       of it,
  and then I could not retract.

  That, however, is a thing of the past. I always did detest a
       welcher,
  and if this money is going to a woman to whom it will be manna from
  heaven--to use your words--I am satisfied. Convey to her my
       personal
  congratulations, gratitude and best wishes.

  Cordially yours,

  C. V. D. WILEY.

"Good old Chris!" muttered the sheriff. "He's rich because he's white." He thrust both check
and letter back into the long envelope and headed for the office of our local daily paper at
a smart pace.

The earning of five thousand dollars reward-money by Cora McBride made an epochal news-item,
and in that night's paper we headlined it accordingly--not omitting proper mention of the sheriff
and giving him appropriate credit.

Having so started the announcement permeating through the community, the old man employed the
office phone and called the local livery-stable. He ordered a rig in which he might drive at
once to the McBride house in the northern part of town.

"But half that money ought to be yourn!" protested the proprietor of the stable as the sheriff
helped him "gear up the horse" a few minutes later.

"Under the circumstances, Joseph, can you see me takin' it? No; it ain't in me to horn in for
no rake-off on one o' the Lord's miracles."

The old man climbed into the sleigh, took the reins from the liveryman and started the horse
from the livery yard.

Two weeks ago--on Monday, the twenty-seventh of the past October--the telephone-bell rang sharply
in our newspaper-office a few moments before the paper went to press. Now, the telephone-bell
often rings in our newspaper-office a few moments before going to press. The confusion on this
particular Monday afternoon, however, resulted from Albany calling on the long-distance. Albany--meaning
the nearest office of the international press-association of which our paper is a member--called
just so, out of a clear sky, on the day McKinley was assassinated, on the day the Titanic foundered
and on the day Austria declared war on Serbia.

The connection was made, and over the wire came the voice of young Stewart, crisp as lettuce.

"Special dispatch ... Wyndgate, Vermont, October 27th ... Ready?" The editor of our paper answered
in the affirmative. The rest of us grouped anxiously around his chair. Stewart proceeded:

"'Hapwell Ruggam, serving a life-sentence for the murder of Deputy Sheriff Martin Wiley at
a Lost Nation kitchen-dance two years ago, killed Jacob Lambwell, his guard, and escaped from
prison at noon to-day.

"'Ruggam had been given some repair work to do near the outer prison-gate. It was opened to
admit a tradesman's automobile. As Guard Lambwell turned to close the gate, Ruggam felled him
with his shovel. He escaped to the adjacent railroad-yards, stole a corduroy coat and pair
of blue overalls hanging in a switchman's shanty and caught the twelve-forty freight up Green
River.'"

Stewart had paused. The editor scribbled frantically. In a few words aside he explained to
us what Stewart was sending. Then he ordered the latter to proceed.

"'Freight Number Eight was stopped by telegraph near Norwall. The fugitive, assuming correctly
that it was slowing down for search, was seen by a brakeman fleeing across a pasture between
the tracks and the eastern edge of Haystack Mountain. Several posses have already started after
him, and sheriffs all through northern New England are being notified.

"'Christopher Wiley, lumber magnate and brother of Ruggam's former victim, on being told of
the escape, has offered a reward of five thousand dollars for Ruggam's capture, dead or alive.
Guard Lambwell was removed to a hospital, where he died at one-thirty'.... All right?"

The connection was broken, and the editor removed the headpiece. He began giving orders. We
were twenty minutes behind usual time with the papers, but we made all the trains.

When the big Duplex was grinding out newsprint with a roar that shook the building, the boys
and girls gathered around to discuss the thing which had happened.

The Higgins boy, saucer-eyed over the experience of being "on the inside" during the handling
of the first sizable news-story since he had become our local reporter, voiced the interrogation
on the faces of other office newcomers.

"Ruggam," the editor explained, "is a poor unfortunate who should have been sent to an asylum
instead of the penitentiary. He killed Mart Wiley, a deputy sheriff, at a Lost Nation kitchen-dance
two years ago."

"Where's the Lost Nation?"

"It's a term applied to most of the town of Partridgeville in the northern part of the county--an
inaccessible district back in the mountains peopled with gone-to-seed stock and half-civilized
illiterates who only get into the news when they load up with squirrel whisky and start a programme
of progressive hell. Ruggam was the local blacksmith."

"What's a kitchen-dance?"

"Ordinarily a kitchen-dance is harmless enough. But the Lost Nation folks use it as an excuse
for a debauch. They gather in some sizable shack, set the stove out into the yard, soak themselves
in aromatic spirits of deviltry and dance from Saturday night until Monday noon----"

"And this Ruggam killed a sheriff at one of them?"

"He got into a brawl with another chap about his wife. Someone passing saw the fight and sent
for an officer. Mart Wiley was deputy, afraid of neither man, God nor devil. Martin had grown
disgusted over the petty crime at these kitchen-dances and started out to clean up this one
right. Hap Ruggam killed him. He must have had help, because he first got Mart tied to a tree
in the yard. Most of the crowd was pie-eyed by this time, anyhow, and would fight at the drop
of a hat. After tying him securely, Ruggam caught up a billet of wood and--and killed him with
that."

"Why didn't they electrocute him?" demanded young Higgins.

"Well, the murder wasn't exactly premeditated. Hap wasn't himself; he was drunk--not even able
to run away when Sheriff Crumpett arrived in the neighbourhood to take him into custody. Then
there was Hap's bringing up. All these made extenuating circumstances."

"There was something about Sheriff Wiley's pompadour," suggested our little lady proofreader.

"Yes," returned the editor. "Mart had a queer head of hair. It was dark and stiff, and he brushed
it straight back in a pompadour. When he was angry or excited, it actually rose on his scalp
like wire. Hap's counsel made a great fuss over Mart's pompadour and the part it sort of played
in egging Hap on. The sight of it, stiffening and rising the way it did maddened Ruggam so
that he beat it down hysterically in retaliation for the many grudges he fancied he owed the
officer. No, it was all right to make the sentence life-imprisonment, only it should have been
an asylum. Hap's not right. You'd know it without being told. I guess it's his eyes. They aren't
mates. They light up weirdly when he's drunk or excited, and if you know what's healthy, you
get out of the way."

By eight o'clock that evening most of the valley's deer-hunters, all of the local adventurers
who could buy, borrow or beg a rifle, and the usual quota of high-school sons of thoughtless
parents were off on the man-hunt in the eastern mountains.

Among them was Sheriff Crumpett's party. On reaching the timberline they separated. It was
agreed that if any of them found signs of Ruggam, the signal for assistance was five shots
in quick succession "and keep shooting at intervals until the rest come up."

We newspaper folk awaited the capture with professional interest and pardonable excitement....

In the northern part of our town, a mile out on the Wickford road, is the McBride place. It
is a small white house with a red barn in the rear and a neat rail fence inclosing the whole.
Six years ago Cora McBride was bookkeeper in the local garage. Her maiden name was Allen. The
town called her "Tomboy Allen." She was the only daughter of old Zeb Allen, for many years
our county game-warden. Cora, as we had always known--and called--her, was a full-blown, red-blooded,
athletic girl who often drove cars for her employer in the days when steering-wheels manipulated
by women were offered as clinching proof that society was headed for the dogs.

Duncan McBride was chief mechanic in the garage repairshop. He was an affable, sober, steady
chap, popularly known as "Dunk the Dauntless" because of an uncanny ability to cope successfully
with the ailments of 90 per cent, of the internal-combustion hay-balers and refractory tin-Lizzies
in the county when other mechanics had given them up in disgust.

When he married his employer's bookkeeper, Cora's folks gave her a wedding that carried old
Zeb within half an hour of insolvency and ran to four columns in the local daily. Duncan and
the Allen girl motored to Washington in a demonstration-car, and while Dunk was absent, the
yard of the garage resembled the premises about a junkshop. On their return they bought the
Johnson place, and Cora quickly demonstrated the same furious enthusiasm for homemaking and
motherhood that she had for athletics and carburetors.

Three years passed, and two small boys crept about the yard behind the white rail fence. Then--when
Duncan and his wife were "making a great go of matrimony" in typical Yankee fashion--came the
tragedy that took all the vim out of Cora, stole the ruddy glow from her girlish features and
made her middle-aged in a twelvemonth. In the infantile-paralysis epidemic which passed over
New England three years ago the McBrides suffered the supreme sorrow--twice. Those small boys
died within two weeks of each other.

Duncan of course kept on with his work at the garage. He was quieter and steadier than ever.
But when we drove into the place to have a carburetor adjusted or a rattle tightened, we saw
only too plainly that on his heart was a wound the scars of which would never heal. As for
Cora, she was rarely seen in the village.

Troubles rarely come singly. One afternoon this past August, Duncan completed repairs on Doc
Potter's runabout. Cranking the machine to run it from the workshop, the "dog" on the safety-clutch
failed to hold. The acceleration of the engine threw the machine into high. Dunk was pinned
in front while the roadster leaped ahead and rammed the delivery truck of the Red Front Grocery.

Duncan was taken to our memorial hospital with internal injuries and dislocation of his spine.
He remained there many weeks. In fact, he had been home only a couple of days when the evening
stage left in the McBride letter-box the daily paper containing the story of Ruggam's "break"
and of the reward offered for his capture.

Cora returned to the kitchen after obtaining the paper and sank wearily into a wooden chair
beside the table with the red cloth. Spreading out the paper, she sought the usual mental distraction
in the three-and four-line bits which make up our local columns.

As the headlines caught her eye, she picked up the paper and entered the bedroom where Duncan
lay. There were telltale traces of tears on his unshaven face, and an ache in his discouraged
heart that would not be assuaged, for it was becoming rumoured about the village that Dunk
the Dauntless might never operate on the vitals of an ailing tin-Lizzie again.

"Dunnie," cried his wife, "Hap Ruggam's escaped!" Sinking down beside the bedroom lamp, she
read him the article aloud.

Her husband's name was mentioned therein; for when the sheriff had commandeered an automobile
from the local garage to convey him and his posse to Lost Nation and secure Ruggam, Duncan
had been called forth to preside at the steering-wheel. He had thus assisted in the capture
and later had been a witness at the trial.

The reading ended, the man rolled his head.

"If I wasn't held here, I might go!" he said. "I might try for that five thousand myself!"

Cora was sympathetic enough, of course, but she was fast approaching the stage where she needed
sympathy herself.

"We caught him over on the Purcell farm," mused Duncan. "Something ailed Ruggam. He was drunk
and couldn't run. But that wasn't all. He had had some kind of crazy-spell during or after
the killing and wasn't quite over it. We tied him and lifted him into the auto. His face was
a sight. His eyes aren't mates, anyhow, and they were wild and unnatural. He kept shrieking
something about a head of hair--black hair--sticks up like wire. He must have had an awful
impression of Mart's face and that hair of his."

"I remember about Aunt Mary Crumpett's telling me of the trouble her husband had with his prisoner
in the days before the trial," his wife replied. "He had those crazy-spells often, nights.
He kept yelling that he saw Martin Wiley's head with its peculiar hair, and his face peering
in at him through the cell window. Sometimes he became so bad that Sheriff Crumpett thought
he'd have apoplexy Finally he had to call Dr. Johnson to attend him."

"Five thousand dollars!" muttered Duncan. "Gawd! I'd hunt the devil for nothing if I only had
a chance of getting out of this bed."

Cora smoothed her husband's rumpled bed, comforted him and laid her own tired head down beside
his hand. When he had dozed off, she arose and left the room.

In the kitchen she resumed her former place beside the table with the cheap red cloth; and
there, with her face in her hands, she stared into endless distance.

"Five thousand dollars! Five thousand dollars!" Over and over she whispered the words, with
no one to hear.

The green-birch fire snapped merrily in the range. The draft sang in the flue. Outside, a soft,
feathery snow was falling, for winter came early in the uplands of Vermont this past year.
To Cora McBride, however, the winter meant only hardship. Within another week she must go into
town and secure work. Not that she minded the labour nor the trips through the vicious weather!
The anguish was leaving Duncan through those monotonous days before he should be up and around.
Those dreary winter days! What might they not do to him--alone.

Five thousand dollars! Like many others in the valley that night she pictured with fluttering
heart what it would mean to possess such a sum of money; but not once in her pitiful flight
of fancy did she disregard the task which must be performed to gain that wealth.

It meant traveling upward in the great snowbound reaches of Vermont mountain-country and tracking
down a murderer who had killed a second time to gain his freedom and would stop at nothing again.

And yet--five thousand dollars!

How much will a person do, how far will a normal human being travel, to earn five thousand
dollars--if the need is sufficiently provocative?

As Cora McBride sat there in the homely little farmhouse kitchen and thought of the debts still
existent, contracted to save the already stricken lives of two little lads forgotten now by
all but herself and Duncan and God, of the chances of losing their home if Duncan could work
no more and pay up the balance of their mortgage, of the days when Duncan must lie in the south
bedroom alone and count the figures on the wallpaper--as she sat there and contemplated these
things, into Cora McBride's heart crept determination.

At first it was only a faint challenge to her courage. As the minutes passed, however, her
imagination ran riot, with five thousand dollars to help them in their predicament. The challenge
grew. Multitudes of women down all the years had attempted wilder ventures for those who were
dear to them. Legion in number had been those who set their hands and hearts to greater tasks,
made more improbable sacrifices, taken greater chances. Multitudes of them, too, had won--on
little else than the courage of ignorance and the strength of desperation.

She had no fear of the great outdoors, for she had lived close to the mountains from childhood
and much of her old physical resiliency and youthful daredeviltry remained. And the need was
terrible; no one anywhere in the valley, not even her own people, knew how terrible.

Cora McBride, alone by her table in the kitchen, that night made her decision.

She took the kitchen lamp and went upstairs. Lifting the top of a leather trunk, she found
her husband's revolver. With it was a belt and holster, the former filled with cartridges.
In the storeroom over the back kitchen she unhooked Duncan's mackinaw and found her own toboggan-cap.
From a corner behind some fishing-rods she salvaged a pair of summer-dried snowshoes; they
had facilitated many a previous hike in the winter woods with her man of a thousand adventures.
She searched until she found the old army-haversack Duncan used as a game-bag. Its shoulder-straps
were broken but a length of rope sufficed to bind it about her shoulders, after she had filled
it with provisions.

With this equipment she returned below-stairs. She drew on heavy woollen stockings and buckled
on arctics. She entered the cold pantry and packed the knapsack with what supplies she could
find at the hour. She did not forget a drinking-cup, a hunting-knife or matches. In her blouse
she slipped a household flash-lamp.

Dressed finally for the adventure, from the kitchen she called softly to her husband. He did
not answer. She was overwhelmed by a desire to go into the south bedroom and kiss him, so much
might happen before she saw him again. But she restrained herself. She must not waken him.

She blew out the kerosene lamp, gave a last glance about her familiar kitchen and went out
through the shed door, closing it softly behind her.

It was one of those close, quiet nights when the bark of a distant dog or whinny of a horse
sounds very near at hand. The snow was falling feathery.

An hour later found her far to the eastward, following an old side road that led up to the
Harrison lumber-job. She had meantime paid Dave Sheldon, a neighbour's boy, encountered by
his gate, to stay with Duncan during her absence which she explained with a white lie. But
her conscience did not bother. Her conscience might be called upon to smother much more before
the adventure was ended.

Off in the depths of the snowing night she strode along, a weird figure against the eerie whiteness
that illumined the winter world. She felt a strange wild thrill in the infinite out-of-doors.
The woodsman's blood of her father was having its little hour.

And she knew the woods. Intuitively she felt that if Ruggam was on Haystack Mountain making
his way toward Lost Nation, he would strike for the shacks of the Green Mountain Club or the
deserted logging-camps along the trail, secreting himself in them during his pauses for rest,
for he had no food, and provisions were often left in these structures by hunters and mountain
hikers. Her plan was simple. She would investigate each group of buildings. She had the advantage
of starting on the northwest side of Haystack. She would be working toward Ruggam, while the
rest of the posses were trailing him.

Mile after mile she covered. She decided it must be midnight when she reached the ghostly buildings
of the Harrison tract, lying white and silent under the thickening snow. It was useless to
search these cabins; they were too near civilization. Besides, if Ruggam had left the freight
at Norwall on the eastern side of Haystack at noon, he had thirty miles to travel before reaching
the territory from which she was starting. So she skirted the abandoned quiet of the clearing,
laid the snowshoes properly down before her and bound the thongs securely about her ankles.

She had plenty of time to think of Ruggam as she padded along. He had no snowshoes to aid him,
unless he had managed to secure a pair by burglary, which was improbable. So it was not difficult
to calculate about where she should begin watching for him. She believed he would keep just
off the main trail to avoid detection, yet take its general direction in order to secure shelter
and possible food from the mountain buildings. When she reached the country in which she might
hope to encounter him, she would zigzag across that main trail in order to pick up his foot-tracks
if he had passed her undetected. In that event she would turn and follow. She knew that the
snow was falling too heavily to continue in such volume indefinitely; it would stop as suddenly
as it had started.

The hours of the night piled up. The silent, muffling snowfall continued. And Cora McBride
began to sense an alarming weariness. It finally dawned upon her that her old-time vigour was
missing. The strength of youth was hers no longer. Two experiences of motherhood and no more
exercise than was afforded by the tasks of her household, had softened her muscles. Their limitations
were now disclosed.

The realization of those limitations was accompanied by panic. She was still many miles even
from Blind Brook Cabin, and her limbs were afire from the unaccustomed effort. This would never
do. After pauses for breath that were coming closer and closer together, she set her lips each
time grimly. "Tomboy Allen" had not counted on succumbing to physical fatigue before she had
climbed as far as Blind Brook. If she were weakening already, what of those many miles on the
other side?

Tuesday the twenty-eighth of October passed with no tidings of Ruggam's capture. The Holmes
boy was fatally shot by a rattleheaded searcher near Five-Mile Pond, and distraught parents
began to take thought of their own lads missing from school. Adam MacQuarry broke his leg near
the Hell Hollow schoolhouse and was sent back by friends on a borrowed bobsled. Several ne'er-do-wells,
long on impulse and short on stickability, drifted back to more comfortable quarters during
the day, contending that if Hap were captured, the officers would claim the reward anyhow--so
what was the use bucking the System?

The snowfall stopped in the early morning. Sunrise disclosed the world trimmed from horizon
to horizon in fairy fluff. Householders jocosely shoveled their walks; small children resurrected
attic sleds; here and there a farmer appeared on Main Street during the forenoon in a pung-sleigh
or cutter with jingling bells. The sun soared higher, and the day grew warmer. Eaves began
dripping during the noon hour, to stop when the sun sank about four o'clock behind Bancroft's hill.

After the sunset came a perfect evening. The starlight was magic. Many people called in at
the newspaper-office, after the movies, to learn if the man hunt had brought results.

Between ten and eleven o'clock the lights on the valley floor blinked out; the town had gone
to bed--that is, the lights blinked out in all homes excepting those on the eastern outskirts,
where nervous people worried over the possibilities of a hungry, hunted convict's burglarizing
their premises, or drawn-faced mothers lived mentally through a score of calamities befalling
red-blooded sons who had now been absent twenty-four hours.

Sometime between nine o'clock and midnight--she had no way of telling accurately--Cora McBride
stumbled into the Lyons clearing. No one would have recognized in the staggering, bedraggled
apparition that emerged from the silhouette of the timber the figure that had started so confidently
from the Harrison tract the previous evening.

For over an hour she had hobbled blindly. It was wholly by accident that she had stumbled into
the clearing. And the capture of Ruggam had diminished in importance. Warm food, water that
would not tear her raw throat, a place to lie and recoup her strength after the chilling winter
night--these were the only things that counted now. Though she knew it not, in her eyes burned
the faint light of fever. When a snag caught her snowshoe and tripped her, there was hysteria
in her cry of resentment.

As she moved across from the timber-line her hair was revealed fallen down; she had lost a
glove, and one hand and wrist were cruelly red where she had plunged them several times into
the snow to save herself from falling upon her face. She made but a few yards before the icy
thong of her right snowshoe snapped. She did not bother to repair it. Carrying it beneath her
arm, she hobbled brokenly toward the shelter of the buildings.

Her failure at the other cabins, the lack, thus far, of all signs of the fugitive, the vastness
of the hunting-ground magnified by the loneliness of winter, had convinced her finally that
her quest was futile. It was all a venture of madness. The idea that a woman, alone and single-handed,
with no weapon but a revolver, could track down and subdue a desperate murderer in winter mountains
where hardly a wild thing stirred, and make him return with her to the certain penalty--this
proved how much mental mischief had again been caused by the lure of money. The glittering
seduction of gold had deranged her. She realized it now, her mind normal in an exhausted body.
So she gained the walls of the buildings and stumbled around them, thoughtless of any possible
signs of the fugitive.

The stars were out in myriads. The Milky Way was a spectacle to recall vividly the sentiment
of the Nineteenth Psalm. The log-buildings of the clearing, every tree-trunk and bough in the
woods beyond, the distant skyline of stump and hollow, all stood out sharply against the peculiar
radiance of the snow. The night was as still as the spaces between the planets.

Like some wild creature of those winter woods the woman clumped and stumbled around the main
shack, seeking the door.

Finding it, she stopped; the snowshoe slipped from beneath her arm; one numb hand groped for
the log door-casing in support; the other fumbled for the revolver.

Tracks led into that cabin!

A paralysis of fright gripped Cora McBride. Something told her intuitively that she stood face
to face at last with what she had traveled all this mountain wilderness to find. Yet with sinking
heart it also came to her that if Hap Ruggam had made these tracks and were still within, she
must face him in her exhausted condition and at once make that tortuous return trip to civilization.
There would be no one to help her.

She realized in that moment that she was facing the primal. And she was not primal. She was
a normal woman, weakened to near-prostration by the trek of the past twenty-four hours. Was
it not better to turn away while there was time?

She stood debating thus, the eternal silence blanketing forest-world and clearing. But she
was allowed to make no decision.

A living body sprang suddenly upon her. Before she could cry out, she was borne down precipitously
from behind.

She tried to turn the revolver against the Thing upon her, but the gun was twisted from her
raw, red fingers. The snow into which she had been precipitated blinded her. She smeared an
arm across her eyes, but before clear sight was regained, talon fingers had gripped her shoulders.
She was half lifted, half dragged through the doorway, and there she was dropped on the plank
flooring. Her assailant, turning, made to close and bar the door.

When she could see clearly, she perceived a weak illumination in the cabin. On the rough bench-table,
shaded by two slabs of bark, burned the stub of a tallow candle probably left by some hunting-party.

The windows were curtained with rotting blankets. Some rough furniture lay about; rusted cooking-utensils
littered the tables, and at one end was a sheet-iron stove. The place had been equipped after
a fashion by deer-hunters or mountain hikers, who brought additional furnishings to the place
each year and left mouldy provisions and unconsumed firewood behind.

The man succeeded finally in closing the door. He turned upon her.

He was short and stocky. The stolen corduroy coat covered blacksmith's muscles now made doubly
powerful by dementia. His hair was lifeless black and clipped close, prison-fashion. His low
forehead hung over burning, mismated eyes. From her helplessness on the floor Cora McBride
stared up at him.

He came closer.

"Get up!" he ordered. "Take that chair. And don't start no rough-house; whether you're a woman
or not, I'll drill you!"

She groped to the indicated chair and raised herself, the single snowshoe still dragging from
one foot. Again the man surveyed her. She saw his eyes and gave another inarticulate cry.

"Shut your mouth and keep it shut! You hear me?"

She obeyed.

The greenish light burned brighter in his mismated eyes, which gazed intently at the top of
her head as though it held something unearthly.

"Take off your hat!" was his next command.

She pulled off the toque. Her hair fell in a mass on her snow-blotched shoulders. Her captor
advanced upon her. He reached out and satisfied himself by touch that something was not there
which he dreaded. In hypnotic fear she suffered that touch. It reassured him.

"Your hair now," he demanded; "it don't stand up, does it? No, o' course it don't. You ain't
him; you're a woman. But if your hair comes up, I'll kill you--understand? If your hair comes
up, I'll kill you!"

She understood. She understood only too well. She was not only housed with a murderer; she
was housed with a maniac. She sensed, also, why he had come to this mountain shack so boldly.
In his dementia he knew no better. And she was alone with him, unarmed now.

"I'll keep it down," she whispered, watching his face out of fear-distended eyes.

The wind blew one of the rotten blankets inward. Thereby she knew that the window-aperture
on the south wall contained no sash. He must have removed it to provide means of escape in
case he were attacked from the east door. He must have climbed out that window when she came
around the shack; that is how he had felled her from behind.

He stepped backward now until he felt the edge of the bench touch his calves. Then he sank
down, one arm stretched along the table's rim, the hand clutching the revolver.

"Who are you?" he demanded.

"I'm Cora McB----" She stopped--she recalled in a flash the part her husband had played in
his former capture and trial. "I'm Cora Allen," she corrected. Then she waited, her wits in
chaos. She was fighting desperately to bring order out of that chaos.

"What you doin' up here?"

"I started for Millington, over the mountain. I lost my way."

"Why didn't you go by the road?"

"It's further."

"That's a lie! It ain't. And don't lie to me, or I'll kill you!"

"Who are you?" she heard herself asking. "And why are you acting this way with me?"

The man leaned suddenly forward.

"You mean to tell me you don't know?"

"A lumberjack, maybe, who's lost his way like myself?"

His expression changed abruptly.

"What you luggin' this for?" He indicated the revolver.

"For protection."

"From what?"

"Wild things."

"There ain't no wild things in these mountains this time o' year; they're snowed up, and you
know it."

"I just felt safer to have it along."

"To protect you from men-folks, maybe?"

"There are no men in these mountains I'm afraid of!" She made the declaration with pathetic
bravado.

His eyes narrowed.

"I think I better kill you," he decided. "You've seen me; you'll tell you seen me. Why shouldn't
I kill you? You'd only tell."

"Why? What have I done to you?" she managed to stammer. "Why should you object to being seen?"

It was an unfortunate demand. He sprang up with a snarl. Pointing the revolver from his hip,
he drew back the hammer.

"Don't!" she shrieked. "Are you crazy? Don't you know how to treat a woman--in distress?"

"Distress, hell! You know who I be. And I don't care whether you're a woman or not, I ain't
goin' to be took--you understand?"

"Certainly I understand."

She said it in such a way that he eased the hammer back into place and lowered the gun. For
the moment again she was safe. In response to her terrible need, some of her latent Yankee
courage came now to aid her. "I don't see what you're making all this rumpus about," she told
him in as indifferent a voice as she could command. "I don't see why you should want to kill
a friend who might help you--if you're really in need of help."

"I want to get to Partridgeville," he muttered after a moment.

"You're not far from there. How long have you been on the road?"

"None of your business."

"Have you had any food?"

"No."

"If you'll put up that gun and let me get off this snowshoe and pack, I'll share with you some
of the food I have."

"Never you mind what I do with this gun. Go ahead and fix your foot, and let's see what you
got for grub." The man resumed his seat.

She twisted up her tangled hair, replaced her toque and untied the dangling snowshoe.

Outside a tree cracked in the frost. He started in hair-trigger fright. Creeping to the window,
he peeped cautiously between casing and blanket. Convinced that it was nothing, he returned
to his seat by the table.

"It's too bad we couldn't have a fire," suggested the woman then. "I'd make us something hot."
The stove was there, rusted but still serviceable; available wood was scattered around. But
the man shook his bullet head.

After a trying time unfastening the frosted knots of the ropes that had bound the knapsack
upon her back, she emptied it onto the table. She kept her eye, however, on the gun. He had
disposed of it by thrusting it into his belt. Plainly she would never recover it without a
struggle. And she was in no condition for physical conflict.

"You're welcome to anything I have," she told him.

"Little you got to say about it! If you hadn't given it up, I'd took it away from you. So what's
the difference?"

She shrugged her shoulders. She started around behind him but he sprang toward her.

"Don't try no monkey-shines with me!" he snarled. "You stay here in front where I can see you."

She obeyed, watching him make what poor meal he could from the contents of her bag.

She tried to reason out what the denouement of the situation was to be. He would not send her
away peacefully, for she knew he dared not risk the story she would tell regardless of any
promises of secrecy she might give him. If he left her bound in the cabin, she would freeze
before help came--if it ever arrived.

No, either they were going to leave the place and journey forth together--the Lord only knew
where or with what outcome--or the life of one of them was to end in this tragic place within
the coming few minutes. For she realized she must use that gun with deadly effect if it were
to come again into her possession.

The silence was broken only by the noises of his lips as he ate ravenously. Outside, not a
thing stirred in that snowbound world. Not a sound of civilization reached them. They were
a man and woman in the primal, in civilization and yet a million miles from it.

"The candle's going out," she announced. "Is there another?"

"There'll be light enough for what I got to do," he growled.

Despite her effort to appear indifferent, her great fear showed plainly in her eyes.

"Are we going to stay here all night?" she asked with a pathetic attempt at lightness.

"That's my business."

"Don't you want me to help you?"

"You've helped me all you can with the gun and food."

"If you're going to Partridgeville, I'd go along and show you the way."

He leaped up.

"Now I know you been lyin!'" he bellowed. "You said you was headed for Millington. And you
ain't at all. You're watchin' your chance to get the drop on me and have me took--that's what
you're doin'!"

"Wait!" she pleaded desperately. "I was going to Millington. But I'd turn back and show you
the way to Partridgeville to help you."

"What's it to you?" He had drawn the gun from his belt and now was fingering it nervously.

"You're lost up here in the mountains, aren't you?" she said. "I couldn't let you stay lost
if it was possible for me to direct you on your way."

"You said you was lost yourself."

"I was lost--until I stumbled into this clearing. That gave me my location."

"Smart, ain't you? Damn' smart, but not too smart for me, you woman!" The flare flamed up again
in his crooked eyes. "You know who I be, all right. You know what I'm aimin' to do. And you're
stallin' for time till you can put one over. But you can't--see? I'll have this business done
with. I'll end this business!"

She felt herself sinking to her knees. He advanced and gripped her left wrist. The crunch of
his iron fingers sent an arrow of pain through her arm. It bore her down.

"For God's sake--don't!" she whispered hoarsely, overwhelmed with horror. For the cold, sharp
nose of the revolver suddenly punched her neck.

"I ain't leavin' no traces behind. Might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. Never mind
if I do----"

"Look!" she cried wildly. "Look, look, look!" And with her free hand she pointed behind him.

It was an old trick. There was nothing behind him. But in that instant of desperation instinct
had guided her.

Involuntarily he turned.

With a scream of pain she twisted from his grasp and blotted out the candle.

A long, livid pencil of orange flame spurted from the gun-point. She sensed the powder-flare
in her face. He had missed.

She scrambled for shelter beneath the table. The cabin was now in inky blackness. Across that
black four more threads of scarlet light were laced. The man stumbled about seeking her, cursing
with blood-curdling blasphemy.

Suddenly he tripped and went sprawling. The gun clattered from his bruised fingers; it struck
the woman's knee.

Swiftly her hand closed upon it. The hot barrel burned her palm.

She was on her feet in an instant. Her left hand fumbled in her blouse, and she found what
had been there all along--the flash-lamp.

With her back against the door, she pulled it forth. With the gun thrust forward for action
she pressed the button.

"I've got the gun--get up!" she ordered. "Don't come too near me or I'll shoot. Back up against
that wall."

The bull's-eye of radiance blinded him. When his eyes became accustomed to the light, he saw
its reflection on the barrel of the revolver. He obeyed.

"Put up your hands. Put 'em up high!"

"Suppose I won't?"

"I'll kill you."

"What'll you gain by that?"

"Five thousand dollars."

"Then you know who I be?"

"Yes."

"And was aimin' to take me in?"

"Yes."

"How you goin' to do that if I won't go?"

"You're goin' to find out."

"You won't get no money shootin' me."

"Yes, I will--just as much--dead as alive."

With his hands raised a little way above the level of his shoulders, he stood rigidly at bay
in the circle of light.

"Well," he croaked at last, "go ahead and shoot. I ain't aimin' to be took--not by no woman.
Shoot, damn you, and have it done with. I'm waitin'!"

"Keep up those hands!"

"I won't!" He lowered them defiantly. "I w-wanted to m-make Partridgeville and see the old
lady. She'd 'a' helped me. But anything's better'n goin' back to that hell where I been the
last two years. Go on! Why don't you shoot?"

"You wanted to make Partridgeville and see--who?"

"My mother--and my wife."

"Have you got a mother? Have you got a--wife?"

"Yes, and three kids. Why don't you shoot?"

It seemed an eon that they stood so. The McBride woman was trying to find the nerve to fire.
She could not. In that instant she made a discovery that many luckless souls make too late:
to kill a man is easy to talk about, easy to write about. But to stand deliberately face to
face with a fellow-human--alive, pulsing, breathing, fearing, hoping, loving, living,--point
a weapon at him that would take his life, blot him from the earth, negate twenty or thirty
years of childhood, youth, maturity, and make of him in an instant--nothing! --that is quite
another matter.

He was helpless before her now. Perhaps the expression on his face had something to do with
the sudden revulsion that halted her finger. Facing certain death, some of the evil in those
crooked eyes seemed to die out, and the terrible personality of the man to fade. Regardless
of her danger, regardless of what he would have done to her if luck had not turned the tables,
Cora McBride saw before her only a lone man with all society's hand against him, realizing
he had played a bad game to the limit and lost, two big tears creeping down his unshaved face,
waiting for the end.

"Three children!" she whispered faintly.

"Yes."

"You're going back to see them?"

"Yes, and my mother. Mother'd help me get to Canada--somehow."

Cora McBride had forgotten all about the five thousand dollars. She was stunned by the announcement
that this man had relatives--a mother, a wife, three babies. The human factor had not before
occurred to her. Murderers! They have no license to let their eyes well with tears, to have
wives and babies, to possess mothers who will help them get to Canada regardless of what their
earthly indiscretions may have been.

At this revelation the gun-point wavered. The sight of those tears on his face sapped her will-power
even as a wound in her breast might have drained her life-blood.

Her great moment had been given her. She was letting it slip away. She had her reward in her
hand for the mere pulling of a trigger and no incrimination for the result. For a bit of human
sentiment she was bungling the situation unpardonably, fatally.

Why did she not shoot? Because she was a woman. Because it is the God-given purpose of womanhood
to give life, not take it.

The gun sank, sank--down out of the light, down out of sight.

And the next instant he was upon her.

The flash-lamp was knocked from her hand and blinked out. It struck the stove and she heard
the tinkle of the broken lens. The woman's hand caught at the sacking before the window at
her left shoulder. Gripping it wildly to save herself from that onslaught, she tore it away.
For the second time the revolver was twisted from her raw fingers.

The man reared upward, over her.

"Where are you?" he roared again and again. "I'll show you! Lemme at you!"

Outside the great yellow moon of early winter, arising late, was coming up over the silhouetted
line of purple mountains to the eastward. It illumined the cabin with a faint radiance, disclosing
the woman crouching beneath the table.

The man saw her, pointed his weapon point-blank at her face and fired.

To Cora McBride, prostrate there in her terror, the impact of the bullet felt like the blow
of a stick upon her cheek-bone rocking her head. Her cheek felt warmly numb. She pressed a
quick hand involuntarily against it, and drew it away sticky with blood.

Click! Click! Click!

Three times the revolver mechanism was worked to accomplish her destruction. But there was
no further report. The cylinder was empty.

"Oh, God!" the woman moaned. "I fed you and offered to help you. I refused to shoot you because
of your mother--your wife--your babies. And yet you----"

"Where's your cartridges?" he cried wildly. "You got more; gimme that belt!"

She felt his touch upon her. His crazy fingers tried to unbutton the clasp of the belt and
holster. But he could secure neither while she fought him. He pinioned her at length with his
knee. His fingers secured a fistful of the cylinders from her girdle, and he opened the chamber
of the revolver.

She realized the end was but a matter of moments. Nothing but a miracle could save her now.

Convulsively she groped about for something with which to strike. Nothing lay within reach
of her bleeding fingers, however, but a little piece of dried sapling. She tried to struggle
loose, but the lunatic held her mercilessly. He continued the mechanical loading of the revolver.

The semi-darkness of the hut, the outline of the moon afar through the uncurtained window--these
swam before her....  Suddenly her eyes riveted on that curtainless window and she uttered a
terrifying cry.

Ruggam turned.

Outlined in the window aperture against the low-hung moon Martin Wiley, the murdered deputy,
was staring into the cabin!

From the fugitive's throat came a gurgle. Some of the cartridges he held spilled to the flooring.
Above her his figure became rigid. There was no mistaking the identity of the apparition. They
saw the man's hatless head and some of his neck. They saw his dark pompadour and the outline
of his skull. As that horrible silhouette remained there, Wiley's pompadour lifted slightly
as it had done in life.

The cry in the convict's throat broke forth into words.

"Mart Wiley!" he cried, "Mart Wiley! Mart--Wiley!"

Clear, sharp, distinct was the shape of that never-to-be-forgotten pompadour against the disk
of the winter moon. His features could not be discerned, for the source of light was behind
him, but the silhouette was sufficient. It was Martin Wiley; he was alive. His head and his
wirelike hair were moving--rising, falling.

Ruggam, his eyes riveted upon the phantom, recoiled mechanically to the western wall. He finished
loading the revolver by the sense of touch. Then:

Spurt after spurt of fire lanced the darkness, directed at the Thing in the window. While the
air of the hut reeked with the acrid smoke, the echo of the volley sounded through the silent
forest-world miles away.

But the silhouette in the window remained.

Once or twice it moved slightly as though in surprise; that was all. The pompadour rose in
bellicose retaliation--the gesture that had always ensued when Wiley was angered or excited.
But to bullets fired from an earthly gun the silhouette of the murdered deputy's ghost, arisen
in these winter woods to prevent another slaughter, was impervious.

Ruggam saw; he shrieked. He broke the gun and spilled out the empty shells. He fumbled in more
cartridges, locked the barrel and fired again and again, until once more it was empty.

Still the apparition remained.

The man in his dementia hurled the weapon; it struck the sash and caromed off, hitting the
stove. Then Hap Ruggam collapsed upon the floor.

The woman sprang up. She found the rope thongs which had bound her pack to her shoulders. With
steel-taut nerves, she rolled the insensible Ruggam over.

She tied his hands; she tied his ankles. With her last bit of rope she connected the two bindings
tightly behind him so that if he recovered, he would be at her mercy. Her task accomplished,
on her knees beside his prone figure, she thought to glance up at the window.

Wiley's ghost had disappeared.

Sheriff Crumpett and his party broke into the Lyons clearing within an hour. They had arrived
in answer to five successive shots given a few moments apart, the signal agreed upon. The mystery
to them, however, was that those five shots had been fired by some one not of their party.

The sheriff and his men found the McBride woman, her clothing half torn from her body, her
features powder-marked and blood-stained; but she was game to the last, woman-fashion weeping
only now that all was over. They found, too, the man they had combed the country to find--struggling
fruitlessly in his bonds, her prisoner.

And they likewise found the miracle.

On the snow outside under the window they came upon a black porcupine about the size of a man's
head which, scenting food within the cabin, had climbed to the sill, and after the habit of
these little animals whose number is legion all over the Green Mountains, had required fifteen
bullets pumped into its carcass before it would release its hold.

Even in death its quills were raised in uncanny duplication of Mart Wiley's pompadour.

A MATTER OF LOYALTY

BY LAWRENCE PERRY

From The Red Book

Standing in the bow of the launch, Dr. Nicholls, coach of the Baliol crew, leaned upon his
megaphone, his eyes fixed upon two eight-oared crews resting upon their oars a hundred feet
away. From his hand dangled a stop-watch. The two crews had just completed a four-mile race
against the watch.

A grim light came into the deeply set gray eyes of Jim Deacon as the coach put the watch into
his pocket. Deacon was the stroke of the second varsity, an outfit which in aquatics bears
the same relation to a university eight as the scrub team does to a varsity football eleven.
But in the race just completed the second varsity had been much of a factor--surprisingly,
dishearteningly so. Nip and tuck it had been, the varsity straining to drop the rival boat
astern, but unable to do so. At the finish not a quarter of a length, not fifteen feet, had
separated the two prows; a poor showing for the varsity to have made with the great rowing
classic of the season coming on apace--a poor showing, that is, assuming the time consumed
in the four-mile trip was not especially low.

Only the coach could really know whether the time was satisfactory or not. But Jim Deacon suspected
that it was poor, his idea being based upon knowledge he had concerning the capabilities of
his own crew; in other words, he knew it was only an average second varsity outfit. The coach
knew it too. That was the reason his jaws were set, his eyes vacant. At length he shook his head.

"Not good, boys--not good." His voice was gentle, though usually he was a rip-roaring mentor.
"Varsity, you weren't rowing. That's the answer--not rowing together. What's the matter, eh?"

"I thought, Dr. Nicholls, that the rhythm was very good----"

The coach interrupted Rollins, the captain, with a gesture.

"Oh, rhythm! Yes, you row prettily enough. You look well. I should hope so, at this time of
the season. But you're not shoving the boat fast; you don't pick up and get her moving. You're
leaking power somewhere; as a matter of fact, I suspect you're not putting the power in. I
know you're not. Ashburton, didn't that lowering of your seat fix you? Well, then,"--as the
young man nodded affirmatively-- "how about your stretcher, Innis? Does it suit you now?"

As Innis nodded, signifying that it did, Deacon saw the coach's eyes turn to Doane, who sat
at stroke of the varsity.

"Now," muttered the stroke of the second varsity, his eyes gleaming, "we'll hear something."

"Doane, is there anything the trouble with you? You're feeling well, aren't you?"

"Yes sir. Sure!" The boy flushed. Tall, straight, handsome he sat in the boat, fingering the
oar-handle nervously. In appearance he was the ideal oarsman. And yet----

Deacon, watching the coach, could almost see his mind working. Now the time had come, the issue
clearly defined. Another stroke must be tried and found not wanting, else the annual eight-oared
rowing classic between those ancient universities Baliol and Shelburne would be decided before
it was rowed.

Deacon flushed as the coach's glittering eyeglasses turned toward him. It was the big moment
of the senior's four years at college. Four years! And six months of each of those years a
galley-slave--on the machines in the rowing-room of the gymnasium, on the ice-infested river
with the cutting winds of March sweeping free; then the more genial months with the voice of
coach or assistant coach lashing him. Four years of dogged, unremitting toil with never the
reward of a varsity seat, and now with the great regatta less than a week away, the big moment,
the crown of all he had done.

Words seemed on the verge of the coach's lips. Deacon's eyes strained upon them as he sat stiffly
in his seat. But no words came; the coach turned away.

"All right," he said spiritlessly. "Paddle back to the float."

The coxswains barked their orders; sixteen oars rattled in their locks; the glistening shells
moved slowly homeward.

Tingling from his plunge in the river, Jim Deacon walked up the bluff from the boathouse to
the group of cottages which constituted Baliol's rowing-quarters. Some of the freshman crew
were playing indoor baseball on the lawn under the gnarled trees, and their shouts and laughter
echoed over the river. Deacon stood watching them. His face was of the roughhewn type, in his
two upper-class years his heavy frame had taken on a vast amount of brawn and muscle. Now his
neck was meet for his head and for his chest and shoulders; long, slightly bowed limbs filled
out a picture of perfect physique.

No one had known him really well in college. He was working his way through. Besides, he was
a student in one of the highly scientific engineering courses which demanded a great deal of
steady application. With no great aptitude for football--he was a bit slow-footed--with little
tune or inclination for social activities, he had concentrated upon rowing, not only as a diversion
from his arduous studies, an ordered outlet for physical energy, but with the idea of going
out into the world with that hallmark of a Baliol varsity oar which he had heard and believed
was likely to stand him in stead in life. Baliol alumni, which include so many men of wealth
and power, had a habit of not overlooking young graduates who have brought fame to their alma
mater.

As Deacon stood watching the freshmen at play, Dick Rollins, the crew captain, came up.

"They sent down the time-trial results from the Shelburne quarters, Deacon."

Never in his life had one of the great men of the university spoken that many words, or half
as many, to Jim Deacon, who stared at the speaker.

"The time--oh, yes; I see."

"They did twenty minutes, thirty seconds."

Deacon whistled.

"Well," he said at length, "you didn't get the boat moving much to-day." He wanted to say more,
but could think of nothing. Words came rather hard with him.

"You nearly lugged the second shell ahead of us to-day, hang you."

"No use letting a patient die because he doesn't know he's sick."

Rollins grimaced.

"Yes, we were sick. Doc Nicholls knows a sick crew when he sees one. He--he thinks you're the
needed tonic, Deacon."

"Eh?"

"He told me you were to sit in at stroke in Junior Doane's place to-morrow. I'd been pulling
for the change the past few days. Now he sees it."

"You were pulling----But you're Doane's roommate."

"Yes, it's tough. But Baliol first, you know."

Deacon stared at the man. He wanted to say something but couldn't. The captain smiled.

"Look here, Deacon; let's walk over toward the railroad a bit. I want to talk to you." Linking
his arm through Deacon's, he set out through the yard toward the quaint old road with its little
cluster of farm cottages and rolling stone-walled meadow-land bathed in the light of the setting
sun.

"Jim, old boy, you're a queer sort of a chap, and--and--the fact is, the situation will be
a bit ticklish. You know what it means for a fellow to be thrown out of his seat just before
a race upon which he has been counting heart and soul."

"I don't know.  I can imagine."

"You see, it's Doane. You know about his father----"

"I know all about his father," was the reply.

"Eh?" Rollins stared at him, then smiled. "I suppose every rowing man at Baliol does. But you
don't know as much as I do. On the quiet, he's the man who gave us the new boathouse last year.
He's our best spender. He was an old varsity oar himself."

"Sure, I know."

"That's the reason the situation is delicate. Frankly, Jim, Doc Nicholls and the rest of us
would have liked to see Junior Doane come through. I think you get what I mean. He's a senior;
he's my best friend."

"He stroked the boat last year."

"Yes, and Shelburne beat us. Naturally he wants to get back at that crowd."

"But he can't--not if he strokes the boat, Rollins. If you don't know it, I'm telling you.
If I thought different, I'd say so." Deacon abruptly paused after so long a speech.

"You don't have to tell me. I know it. We're not throwing a race to Shelburne simply to please
old Cephas Doane, naturally. I know what you've got, Jim. So does Dr. Nicholls. You'll be in
the varsity to-morrow. But here's the point of what I've been trying to say; Junior Doane hasn't
been very decent to you--"

"Oh, he's been all right."

"Yes, I know. But he's a funny fellow; not a bit of a snob--I don't mean that, but--but--"

"You mean he hasn't paid much attention to me." Deacon smiled grimly. "Well, that's all right.
As a matter of fact, I never really have got to know him. Still, I haven't got to know many
of the fellows. Too busy. You haven't paid much attention to me, either; but I like you."

Rollins, whose father was a multimillionaire with family roots going deep among the rocks of
Manhattan Island, laughed.

"Bully for you! You won't mind my saying so, Jim, but I had it in my mind to ask you to be
a bit inconsequential--especially when Doane was around--about your taking his place. But I
guess it isn't necessary."

"No,"--Deacon's voice was short--"it isn't."

"Junior Doane, of course, will be hard hit. He'll be game. He'll try to win back his seat.
And he may; I warn you."

"If he can win it back, I want him to."

"Good enough!" The captain started to walk away, then turned back with sudden interest. "By
the way, Jim, I was looking through the college catalogue this morning. You and Doane both
come from Philadelphia, don't you?"

"Yes."

"I asked Doane if he knew you there. Apparently not."

"No, he didn't." Deacon paused as though deliberating. Suddenly he spoke. "I knew of him, though.
You see, my father works in the bank of which Mr. Doane is president."

"Oh!" Rollins blinked. "I see."

Deacon stepped forward, placing his hand upon the captain's arm.

"I don't know why I told you that. It isn't important at all. Don't say anything to Doane,
will you? Not that I care. It--it just isn't important."

"No. I get you, Jim. It isn't important." He flung an arm over the young man's shoulder. "Let's
go back to dinner. That rotten time-row has given me an appetite."

There was that quiet in the Baliol dining room that evening which one might expect to find
after an unsatisfactory time-trial. Nations might be falling, cities burning, important men
dying; to these boys such events would be as nothing in the face of the fact that the crew
of a traditional rival was to be met within the week--and that they were not proving themselves
equipped for the meeting.

"If any of you fellows wish to motor down to the Groton Hotel on the Point for an hour or two,
you may go," said the coach, pushing back his chair. He had begun to fear that his charges
might be coming to too fine a point of condition and had decided that the relaxation of a bit
of dancing might do no harm.

"Yeaa!" In an instant that subdued dining apartment was tumultuous with vocal outcry, drawing
to the doorway a crowd of curious freshmen who were finishing dinner in their room.

"All right!" Dr. Nicholls grinned. "I gather all you varsity and second varsity men want to
go. I'll have the big launch ready at eight. And--oh, Dick Rollins, don't forget; that boat
leaves the hotel dock at ten-forty-five precisely."

"Got you sir. Come on, fellows. Look out, you freshmen." With a yell and a dive the oarsmen
went through the doors.

Deacon followed at a more leisurely gait with that faint gleam of amusement in his eyes which
was so characteristic. His first impulse was not to go, but upon second thought he decided
that he would. Jane Bostwick was stopping at the Groton. Her father was a successful promoter
and very close to Cephas Doane, Sr., whose bank stood back of most of his operations. Deacon
had known her rather well in the days when her father was not a successful promoter. In fact,
the two had been neighbours as boy and girl, had played together in front of a row of prim
brick houses. He had not seen her in recent years until the previous afternoon, when as he
was walking along the country road, she had pulled up in her roadster.

"Don't pretend you don't remember me, Jim Deacon," she had laughed as the boy had stared at
the stunning young woman.

Jim remembered her, all right. They talked as though so many significant years had not elapsed.
She was greatly interested, exceedingly gracious.

"Do you know," she said, "it never occurred to me that Deacon, the Baliol rowing man, was none
other than Jim Deacon. Silly of me, wasn't it? But then I didn't even know you were in Baliol.
I'm perfectly crazy about the crew, you know. And Mother, I think, is a worse fan than I am.
You know Junior Doane, of course."

"Oh, yes--that is, I--why, yes, I know him."

"Yes." She smiled down upon him. "If you're ever down to the Groton, do drop in. Mother would
love to see you. She often speaks of your mother." With a wave of her hand she had sped on her way.

Curiously, that evening he had heard Doane talking to her over the telephone, and there was
a great deal in his manner of speaking that indicated something more than mere acquaintance.

But Deacon did not see Jane Bostwick at the hotel--not to speak to, at least. He was not a
good dancer and held aloof when those of his fellows who were not acquainted with guests were
introduced around. Finding a wicker settee among some palms at one side of the orchestra, Deacon
sat drinking in the scene.

It was not until the hour set for the return had almost arrived that Deacon saw Jane Bostwick,
and then his attention was directed to her by her appearance with Junior Doane in one of the
open French windows at his right. Evidently the two had spent the evening in the sequestered
darkness of the veranda. No pair in the room filled the eye so gratefully; the girl, tall,
blonde, striking in a pale blue evening gown; the man, broad-shouldered, trim-waisted, with
the handsome high-held head of a patrician.

A wave of something akin to bitterness passed over Deacon--bitterness having nothing to do
with self. For the boy was ruggedly independent. He believed in himself; knew what he was going
to do in the world. He was thinking of his father, and of the fathers of that young man and
girl before him. His father was painstaking, honourable, considerate--a nobleman every inch
of him; a man who deserved everything that the world had to give, a man who had everything
save the quality of acquisition. And Doane's father? And Jane Bostwick's father?

Of the elder Doane he knew by hearsay--a proud, intolerant wholly worldly man whose passions,
aside from finance, were his son and Baliol aquatics. And Jane Bostwick's father he had known
as a boy--a soft-footed, sly-faced velvety sort of a man noted for converting back lots into
oil-fields and ash-dumps into mines yielding precious metals. Jim Deacon was not so old that
he had come to philosophy concerning the way of the world.

But so far as his immediate world was concerned, Junior Doane was going out of the varsity
boat in the morning--and he, Jim Deacon, was going to sit in his place.

It came the next morning. When the oarsmen went down to the boathouse to dress for their morning
row, the arrangement of the various crews posted on the bulletin-board gave Deacon the seat
at stroke in the varsity boat; Junior Doane's name appeared at stroke in the second varsity list.

There had been rumours of some sort of a shift, but no one seemed to have considered the probability
of Doane's losing his seat--Doane least of all. For a moment the boy stood rigid, looking up
at the bulletin-board. Then suddenly he laughed.

"All right, Carry," he said, turning to the captain of the second varsity. "Come on; we'll
show 'em what a rudder looks like."

But it was not to be. In three consecutive dashes of a mile each, the varsity boat moved with
such speed as it had not shown all season. There was life in the boat. Deacon, rowing in perfect
form, passed the stroke up forward with a kick and a bite, handling his oar with a precision
that made the eye of the coach glisten. And when the nervous little coxswain called for a rousing
ten strokes, the shell seemed fairly to lift out of the water.

In the last mile dash Dr. Nicholls surreptitiously took his stop-watch from his pocket and
timed the sprint. When he replaced the timepiece, the lines of care which had seamed his face
for the past few days vanished.

"All right, boys. Paddle in. Day after to-morrow we'll hold the final time-trial. Deacon, be
careful; occasionally you clip your stroke at the finish."

But Deacon didn't mind the admonition. He knew the coach's policy of not letting a man think
he was too good.

"You certainly bucked up that crew to-day, Deacon." Jim Deacon, who had been lying at full
length on the turf at the top of the bluff watching the shadows creep over the purpling waters
of the river, looked up to see Doane standing over him. His first emotion was one of triumph.
Doane, the son of Cephas Doane, his father's employer, had definitely noticed him at last.
Then the dominant emotion came--one of sympathy.

"Well, the second crew moved better too."

"Oh, I worked like a dog." Doane laughed. "Of course you know I'm going to get my place back,
if I can."

"Of course." Deacon plucked a blade of grass and placed it in his mouth. There was rather a
constrained silence for a moment.

"I didn't know you came from my city, Deacon. I--Jane Bostwick told me about you last night."

"I see. I used to know her." Inwardly Deacon cursed his natural inability to converse easily,
partly fearing that Doane would mistake his reticence for embarrassment in his presence, or
on the other hand set him down as churlish and ill bred.

For his part Doane seemed a bit ill at ease.

"I didn't know, of course, anything Jane told me. If I had, of course, I'd have looked you
up more at the college."

"We're both busy there in our different ways."

Doane stood awkwardly for a moment and then walked away, not knowing that however he may have
felt about the conversation, he had at least increased his stature in the mind of Jim Deacon.

Next day on the river Junior Doane's desperation at the outset brought upon his head the criticism
of the coach.

"Doane! Doane! You're rushing your slide. Finish out your stroke, for heaven's sake."

Deacon, watching the oarsman's face, saw it grow rigid, saw his mouth set. Well he knew the
little tragedy through which Doane was living.

Doane did better after that. The second boat gave the varsity some sharp brushes while the
coxswains barked and the coach shouted staccato objurgation and comment through his megaphone,
and the rival oarsmen swung backward and forward in the expenditure of ultimate power and drive.

But Jim Deacon was the man for varsity stroke. There was not the least doubt about that. The
coach could see it; the varsity could feel it; but of them all Deacon alone knew why. He knew
that Doane was practically as strong an oar as he was, certainly as finished. And Doane's experience
was greater. The difficulty as Deacon grasped it was that the boy had not employed all the
material of his experience. The coxswain, Seagraves, was a snappy little chap, with an excellent
opinion of his head. But Deacon had doubts as to his racing sense. He could shoot ginger into
his men, could lash them along with a fine rhythm, but in negotiating a hard-fought race he
had his shortcomings. At least so Deacon had decided in the brushes against the varsity shell
when he was stroking the second varsity.

Deacon thanked no coxswain to tell him how to row a race, when to sprint, when to dog along
at a steady, swinging thirty; nor did he require advice on the pacing and general condition
of a rival crew. As he swung forward for the catch, his practice was to turn his head slightly
to one side, chin along the shoulder, thus gaining through the tail of his eye a glimpse of
any boat that happened to be abeam, slightly ahead or slightly astern. This glance told him
everything he wished to know. The coach did not know the reason for this peculiarity in Deacon's
style, but since it did not affect his rowing, he very wisely said nothing. To his mind the
varsity boat had at last begun to arrive, and this was no time for minor points.

Two days before the Shelburne race the Baliol varsity in its final time-trial came within ten
seconds of equalling the lowest downstream trial-record ever established--a record made by
a Shelburne eight of the early eighties. There was no doubt in the mind of any one about the
Baliol crew quarters that Deacon would be the man to set the pace for his university in the
supreme test swiftly approaching.

News of Baliol's improved form began to be disseminated in the daily press by qualified observers
of rowing form who were beginning to flock to the scene of the regatta from New York, Philadelphia,
and various New England cities. Dr. Nicholls was reticent, but no one could say that his demeanour
was marked by gloom. Perhaps his optimism would have been more marked had the information he
possessed concerning Shelburne been less disturbing. As a fact there was every indication that
the rival university would be represented by one of the best crews in her history--which was
to say a very great deal. In truth, Baliol rowing enthusiasts had not seen their shell cross
the line ahead of a Shelburne varsity boat in three consecutive years, a depressing state of
affairs which in the present season had filled every Baliol rowing man with grim determination
and the graduates with alternate hope and despair.

"Jim," said the coach, drawing Deacon from the float upon which he had been standing, watching
the antics of a crew of former Baliol oarsmen who had come from far and wide to row the mile
race of "Gentlemen's Eights" which annually marked the afternoon preceding the classic regatta
day, "Jim, you're not worried at all, are you? You're such a quiet sort of a chap, I can't
seem to get you."

Deacon smiled faintly.

"No, I'm not worried--not a bit, sir. I mean I'm going to do my best, and if that's good enough,
why--well, we win."

"I want you to do more than your best to-morrow, Jim. It's got to be a super-effort. You're
up against a great Shelburne crew, the greatest I ever saw--that means twelve years back. I
wouldn't talk to every man this way, but I think you're a stroke who can stand responsibility.
I think you're a man who can work the better when he knows the size of his job. It's a big
one, boy--the biggest I've ever tackled."

"Yes, sir."

The coach studied him a minute.

"How do you feel about beating Shelburne? What I mean," he went on as the oarsman regarded
him, puzzled, "is, would it break your heart to lose? Is the thought of being beaten so serious
that you can't--that you won't consider it?"

"No sir, I won't consider it. I don't go into anything without wanting to come out ahead. I've
worked three years to get into the varsity. I realize the position you've given me will help
me, make me stand out after graduation, mean almost as much as my diploma--provided we can win."

"What about Baliol? Do you think of the college, too, and what a victory will mean to her?
What defeat will mean?"

"Oh," Deacon shrugged; "of course," he went on a bit carelessly, "we want to see Baliol on
top as often----" He stopped, then broke into a chuckle as the stroke of the gentlemen's eight
suddenly produced from the folds of his sweater a bottle from which he drank with dramatic
unction while his fellow-oarsmen clamoured to share the libation and the coxswain abused them
all roundly.

The eyes of the coach never left the young man's face. But he said nothing while Deacon took
his fill of enjoyment of the jovial scene, apparently forgetting the sentence which he had
broken in the middle.

But that evening something of the coach's meaning came to Deacon as he sat on a rustic bench
watching the colours fade from one of those sunset skies which have ever in the hearts of rowing
men who have ever spent a hallowed June on the heights of that broad placid stream. The Baliol
graduates had lost their race against the gentlemen of Shelburne, having rowed just a bit worse
than their rivals. And now the two crews were celebrating their revival of the ways of youth
with a dinner provided by the defeated eight. Their laughter and their songs went out through
the twilight and were lost in the recesses of the river. One song with a haunting melody caught
Deacon's attention; he listened to get the words.

  Then raise the rosy goblet high,
  The senior's chalice and belie
  The tongues that trouble and defile,
  For we have yet a little while
  To linger, you and youth and I,
  In college days.

A group of oarsmen down on the lawn caught up the song and sent it winging through the twilight,
soberly, impressively, with ever-surging harmony. College days! For a moment a dim light burned
in the back of his mind. It went out suddenly. Jim Deacon shrugged and thought of the morrow's
race. It was good to know he was going to be a part of it. He could feel the gathering of enthusiasm,
exhilaration in the atmosphere--pent-up emotion which on the morrow would burst like a thunderclap.
In the quaint city five miles down the river hotels were filling with the vanguard of the boat-race
throng--boys fresh from the poetry of Commencement; their older brothers, their fathers, their
grandfathers, living again the thrill of youth and the things thereof. And mothers and sisters
and sweethearts! Deacon's nerves tingled pleasantly in response to the glamour of the hour.

"Oh, Jim Deacon!"

"Hello!" Deacon turned his face toward the building whence the voice came.

"Somebody wants to see you on the road by the bridge over the railroad."

"See me? All right."

Filled with wonder, Deacon walked leisurely out of the yard and then reaching the road, followed
in the wake of an urchin of the neighbourhood who had brought the summons, and could tell Deacon
only that it was some one in an automobile.

It was, in fact, Jane Bostwick.

"Jump up here in the car, won't you, Jim?" Her voice was somewhat tense. "No, I'm not going
to drive," she added as Deacon hesitated. "We can talk better."

"Have you heard from your father lately?" she asked as the young man sprang into the seat at
her side.

He started.

"No, not in a week. Why, is there anything the matter with him?"

"Of course not." She touched him lightly upon the arm. "You knew that Mr. Bell, cashier of
the National Penn Bank, had died?"

"No. Is that so! That's too bad." Then suddenly Deacon sat erect. "By George! Father is one
of the assistant cashiers there. I wonder if he'll be promoted." He turned upon the girl. "Is
that what you wanted to tell me?"

She waited a bit before replying.

"No--not exactly that."

"Not exactly----What do you mean?"

"Do you know how keen Mr. Doane, I mean Junior's father is on rowing? Well,"--as Deacon nodded,--"have
you thought how he might feel toward the father of the man who is going to sit in his son's
seat in the race to-morrow? Would it make him keen to put that father in Mr. Bell's place?"

Deacon's exclamation was sharp.

"Who asked you to put that thought in my mind?"

"Ah!" Her hand went out, lying upon his arm. "I was afraid you were going to take it that way.
Mother was talking this afternoon. I thought you should know. As for Junior Doane, I'm frank
to admit I'm awfully keen about him. But that isn't why I came here. I remember how close you
and your father used to be. I--I thought perhaps you'd thank me, if--if----"

"What you mean is that because I have beaten Doane out for stroke, his father may be sore and
not promote my father at the bank."

"There's no 'may' about it. Mr. Doane will be sore. He'll be sore at Junior, of course. But
he'll be sore secretly at you, and where there is a question of choice of cashier between your
father and another man--even though the other man has not been so long in the bank--how do
you think his mind will work; I mean, if you lose? Of course, if you can win, then I am sure
everything will be all right. You must----"

"If I can win! What difference would that----" He stopped suddenly. "I've caught what you mean."
He laughed bitterly. "Parental jealousy. All right! All right!"

"Jim, I don't want you----"

"Don't bother. I've heard all I can stand, Jane. Thank you." He lurched out of the car and
hurried away.

She called him. No answer. Waiting a moment, the girl sighed, touched the self-starter and
drove away.

Deacon had no idea of any lapse of time between the departure of the car and himself in his
cot prepared for sleep--with, however, no idea that sleep would come. His mood was pitiable.
His mind was a mass of whirling thoughts in the midst of which he could recognize pictures
of his boyhood, a little boy doing many things--with a hand always tucked within the fingers
of a great big man who knew everything, who could do everything, who could always explain all
the mysteries of the big, strange, booming world. There were many such pictures, pictures not
only relating to boyhood, but to his own struggle at Baliol, to the placid little home in Philadelphia
and all that it had meant, all that it still meant, to his father, to his mother, to him, Any
act of his that would bring sorrow or dismay or the burden of defeated hope to that home!

But on the other hand, the morrow was to bring him the crown of toilsome years, was to make
his name one to conjure with wherever Baliol was loved or known. He knew what the varsity cachet
would do for his prospects in the world. And after all, he had his own life to live, had he
not? Would not the selfish, or rather the rigorous, settlement of this problem, be for the
best in the end, since his making good would simply be making good for his father and his mother?
But how about his father's chance for making good on his own account?

A comrade in the cot adjoining heard a groan.

"Eh! Are you sick, Deacon? Are you all right?"

"Sure--dreaming," came the muffled reply.

There was something unreal to Deacon about the morning. The sunlight was filled with sinister
glow; the voices of the rowing men were strange; the whole environment seemed to have changed.
It was difficult for Jim Deacon to look upon the bronzed faces of the fellows about the breakfast
table, upon the coach with his stiff moustache and glittering eyeglasses--difficult to look
upon them and realize that within a few hours his name would be anathema to them, that forever
where loyal men of Baliol gather he would be an outcast, a pariah.

That was what he would be--an outcast. For he had come to his decision: Just what he would
do he did not know. He did not know that he would not stroke the Baliol varsity. Out of all
the welter of thought and travail had been resolved one dominant idea. His father came first:
there was no evading it. With all the consequences that would follow the execution of his decision
he was familiar. He had come now to know what Baliol meant to him as a place not only of education,
but a place to be loved, honoured, revered. He knew what his future might be. But--his father
came first. Arising from the breakfast-table, he spoke to but one man, Junior Doane.

"Doane," he said, drawing him to one side, "you will row at stroke this afternoon."

The man stared at him. "Are you crazy, Deacon?"

"No, not crazy. I'm not feeling well; that's all."

"But look here, Deacon--you want to see the coach. You're off your head or something. Wait
here, just a minute." As Doane hurried away in search of Dr. Nicholls, Deacon turned blindly
through the yard and so out to the main road leading to a picturesque little river city about
nine miles up the stream.

June was at her loveliest in this lovable country with its walled fields, its serene uplands
and glowing pastures, its lush river meadows and wayside flowers. But of all this Deacon marked
nothing as with head down he tramped along with swift, dogged stride. Up the river three or
four miles farther on was the little city of which he had so often heard but never seen, the
little city of Norton, so like certain English river-cities according to a veteran Oxford oarsman
who had visited the Baliol quarters the previous season. Deacon had an interest in strange
places; he had an eye for the picturesque and the colourful. He would wander about the place,
filling his mind with impressions. He had always wanted to go to Norton; it had seemed like
a dream city to him.

He was in fact striding along in the middle of the road when the horn of a motorcar coming
close behind startled him. As he turned, the vehicle sped up to his side and then stopped with
a grinding of brakes.

Dr. Nicholls, the coach, rose to his full height in the roadster and glared down at Deacon,
while Junior Doane, who had been driving, stared fixedly over the wheel. The coach's voice
was merely a series of profane roars. He had ample lungs, and the things he said seemed to
echo far and wide. His stentorian anger afforded so material a contrast to the placid environment
that Deacon stood dazed under the vocal avalanche, hearing but a blur of objurgation.

"Eh?" He paused as Junior Doane placed an admonishing hand upon his arm.

"I beg your pardon, Doctor; but I don't think that is the right way. May I say something to
Deacon?"

The coach, out of breath, nodded and gestured, sinking into his seat. "Look here, Jim Deacon,
we've come to take you back. You can't buck out the race this way, you know. It isn't done.
Now, wait a minute!" he cried sharply as the boy in the road made to speak. "I know why you
ran away. Jane Bostwick called me up and told me everything. She hadn't realized quite what
she was doing----"

"She--she bungled everything."

"Bungled! What do you mean, Dr. Nicholls?"

"Nothing--nothing! You young idiot, don't you realize you're trying to kill yourself for life?
Jump into the car."

"I'm not going to row." Deacon's eyes smoldered upon the two.

Studying him a moment, Dr. Nicholls suddenly grasped the seriousness of Deacon's mood. He leaped
from the car and walked up to him, placing a hand upon his shoulder.

"Look here, my boy: You've let a false ideal run away with you. Do you realize that some twenty-five
thousand people throughout this country are having their interests tossed away by you? You
represent them. They didn't ask you to. You came out for the crew and worked until you won
a place for yourself, a place no one but you can fill. There are men, there are families on
this riverside to-day, who have traveled from San Francisco, from all parts of the country,
to see Baliol at her best. There are thousands who have the right to ask us that Shelburne
is not permitted to win this afternoon. Do you realize your respons----"

Deacon raised his hand.

"I've heard it said often, Dr. Nicholls, that any one who gets in Cephas Doane's way gets crushed.
I'm not afraid of him, nor of any one else, on my own account; but I'm afraid of him because
of my father. My father is getting to be an old man. Do you think I am going to do anyth----"
Deacon's voice, which had been gathering in intensity, broke suddenly. He couldn't go on.

"Jim Deacon!" There was a note of exhilaration in Junior Doane's voice. He hastily climbed
out of the car and joined the coach at Deacon's side. "I'm not going to defend my father now.
No one knows him as I do; no one knows as I do the great big stuff that is in him. He and I
have always been close, and----"

"Then you know how he'd feel about any one who took your place in the boat. He can't hurt me.
But he can break my father's heart----"

"Deacon, is that the opinion you have of my father!"

"Tell me the truth, Doane; is there the chance under the conditions that with a choice between
two men in the bank he might fail to see Father? Isn't it human nature for a man as dominant
and strong as he is, who has always had or got most of the things he wants, to feel that way?"

"Perhaps. But not if you can win out against Shelburne. Can't you see your chance, Deacon?
Go in and beat Shelburne; Father'll be so glad he'll fall off the observation-train. You know
how he hates Shelburne. Any soreness he has about my missing out at stroke will be directed
at me--and it won't be soreness, merely regret. Don't you get it?"

"And if we lose----"

"If we lose, there's the chance that we're all in the soup."

"I'm not, if I keep out of this thing----"

"If we lose with me at stroke, do you suppose it will help you or any one related to you with
my father when he learns that Baliol would probably have won with you stroking?

"My Lord, Jim Deacon," Doane went on as the other did not reply, "do you suppose this is any
fun for me, arguing with you to swing an oar this afternoon when I would give my heart's blood
to swing it in your place?"

"Why do you do it, then?"

"Why do I do it? Because I love Baliol. Because her interests stand above mine. Because more
than anything I want to see her win. I didn't feel this way when you beat me out for stroke.
I'll admit it. I didn't show my feelings, but I was thinking of nothing but my licking----"

"Ah!"

"Just a minute, Jim. I didn't realize the bigness of the thing, didn't appreciate that what
I wanted to do didn't count for a damn. Baliol, only Baliol! It all came to me when you bucked
out. Baliol is all that counts, Jim. If I can help her win by rooting from the observation-car,
all right! But--don't think it's any fun for me urging you to come back and row. For I wanted
to row this race, old boy. I--I----"

Doane's voice faltered. "But I can't; that's all. Baliol needs a better man--needs you. As
for you, you've no right to consider anything else. You go in--and win."

"Win!" Jim Deacon stood in the road, rigid, his voice falling to a whisper. "Win!" Into his
eyes came a vacant expression. For a moment the group stood in the middle of the road as though
transfixed. Then the coach placed his hand upon Deacon's arm, gently.

"Come Jim," he said.

The afternoon had gone silently on. Jim Deacon sat on the veranda of the crew-quarters, his
eyes fixed upon the river. Some of the crew were trying to read; others lounged about talking
in low voices. Occasionally the referee's launch would appear off the float, the official exchanging
some words with the coach while the oarsmen watched eagerly. Then the launch would turn and
disappear.

"Too rough yet, boys. They're going to postpone another hour." Twice had the coach brought
this word to the group of pent-up young men who in a manner of speaking were sharing the emotions
of the condemned awaiting the executioner's summons. Would the up-river breeze never subside
and give them conditions that would be satisfactory to the meticulous referee?

Deacon lurched heavily in his seat.

"What difference does it make so long as the shells won't sink?" he asked.

"We're ready," replied Dick Rollins. "It's Shelburne holding things up; she wants smooth water,
of course. It suits me, though. Things will soften up by sunset."

"Sunset!" Deacon scowled at the western skies. "Well, sunset isn't so far off as it was."

Word came, as a matter of fact, shortly after five o'clock. The coach, with solemn face, came
up to the cottage, bringing the summons. After that for a little while Jim Deacon passed through
a series of vague impressions rather than living experience. There was the swift changing of
clothes in the cavernous boathouse, the bearing of the boat high overhead to the edge of the
float, the splash as it was lowered into the water. Mechanically he leaned forward to lace
the stretcher-shoes, letting the handle of his oar rest against his stomach; mechanically he
tried to slide, tested the oarlock.

Then some one gripped the blade of his oar, pushing gently outward. The shell floated gingerly
out into the stream.

"Starboard oars, paddle." Responsive to the coxswain's sharp command Deacon plied his blade,
and in the act there came to him clarity of perception. He was out here to win, to win not
only for Baliol, but for himself, for his father. There could be no thought of not winning;
the imminence of the supreme test had served to fill him with the consciousness of indomitable
strength, to thrill his muscles with the call for tremendous action.

As the shell swept around a point of land, a volume of sound rolled across the waters. Out
of the corner of his eye he caught view of the long observation-train, vibrant with animation,
the rival colours commingled so that all emblem of collegiate affiliation was lost in a merger
of quivering hue. A hill near the starting-line on the other side of the river was black with
spectators, who indeed filled points of vantage all down the four miles of the course. The
clouds above the western hills were turning crimson; the waters had deepened to purple and
were still and silent.

"There, you hell-dogs!" The voice of the coxswain rasped in its combativeness. "Out there is
Shelburne; ahead of us at the line. Who says it'll be the last time she'll be ahead of us?"

Along the beautiful line of brown, swinging bodies went a low growl, a more vicious rattle
of the oarlocks.

Suddenly as Jim Deacon swung forward, a moored skiff swept past his blade, the starting-line.

"Weigh all." The coxswain's command was immediately followed by others designed to work the
boat back to proper starting-position. Deacon could easily see the Shelburne crew now--big
men all, ideal oarsmen to look at. Their faces were set and grim, their eyes straight ahead.
So far as they gave indication, their shell might have been alone on the river. Now the Baliol
shell had made sternway sufficient for the man in the skiff to seize the rudder. The Shelburne
boat was already secured. Astern hovered the referee's boat, the official standing in the bow
directing operations. Still astern was a larger craft filled with favoured representatives
of the two colleges, the rival coaches, the crew-managers and the like.

"Are you all ready, Baliol?"

"Yes, sir." Deacon, leaning forward, felt his arms grow tense.

"Are you all ready, Shelburne?"

The affirmative was followed by the sharp report of a pistol. With a snap of his wrist Deacon
beveled his oar, which bit cleanly into the water and pulled. There followed an interval of
hectic stroking, oars in and out of the water as fast as could be done, while spray rose in
clouds and the coxswain screamed the measure of the beat.

"Fine, Baliol." The coxswain's voice went past Deacon's ear like a bullet. "Both away together
and now a little ahead at forty-two to the minute. But down now. Down--down--down--down! That's
it--thirty-two to the minute. It's a long race, remember. Shelburne's dropping the beat, too.
You listen to Papa, all of you; he'll keep you wise. Number three, for God's sake don't lift
all the water in the river up on your blade at the finish. Shelburne's hitting it up a bit.
Make it thirty-four."

"Not yet." Deacon scowled at the tense little coxswain. "I'll do the timing." Chick Seagraves
nodded.

"Right. Thirty-two."

Swinging forward to the catch, his chin turned against his shoulder, Deacon studied the rival
crew which with the half-mile flags flashing by had attained a lead of some ten feet. Their
blades were biting the water hardly fifty feet from the end of his blade, the naked brown bodies
moving back and forth in perfect rhythm and with undeniable power registered in the snap of
the legs on the stretchers and the pull of the arms. Deacon's eyes swept the face of the Shelburne
coxswain; it was composed. He glanced at the stroke. The work, apparently, was costing him nothing.

"They're up to thirty-four," cried Seagraves as the mile flags drew swiftly up.

"They're jockeying us, Chick. We'll show our fire when we get ready. Let 'em rave."

Vaguely there came to Deacon a sound from the river-bank--Shelburne enthusiasts acclaiming
a lead of a neat half a length.

"Too much--too much." Deacon shook his head. Either Shelburne was setting out to row her rival
down at the start, or else, as Deacon suspected, she was trying to smoke Baliol out, to learn
at an early juncture just what mettle was in the rival boat. A game, stout-hearted, confident
crew will always do this, it being the part of good racing policy to make a rival know fear
as early as possible. And Shelburne believed in herself, beyond any question of doubt.

And whether she was faking, or since Baliol could not afford to let the bid go unanswered,
a lead of a quarter of a length at the mile had to be challenged:

"Give 'em ten at thirty-six!" Deacon's voice was thick with gathering effort. "Talk it up, Chick."

From the coxswain's throat issued a machine-gun fusillade of whiplash words.

"Ten, boys! A rouser now. Ten! Come on. One--two--three--four--oh, boy! Are we walking! Five--six--are
they anchored over there? Seven--oh, you big brown babies! Eight--Shelburne, good night--nine--wow!--ten!"

Deacon, driving backward and forward with fiery intensity, feeling within him the strength
of some huge propulsive machine, was getting his first real thrill of conflict--the thrill
not only of actual competition, but of all it meant to him, personally: his father's well-being,
his own career--everything was merged in a luminous background of emotion for which that glittering
oar he held was the outlet.

Shelburne had met the spurt, but the drive of the Baliol boat was not to be denied. Gradually
the two prows came abreast, and then Deacon, not stopping at the call of ten, but fairly carrying
the crew along with him, swung on with undiminished ferocity, while Seagraves' voice rose into
a shrill crescendo of triumph as Baliol forged to the lead.

"They know a little now." Deacon's voice was a growl as gradually he reduced the beat to thirty-two,
Shelburne already having diminished the stroke.

Deacon studied them. They were rowing along steadily, the eyes of their coxswain turned curiously
upon the Baliol shell. He suspected the little man would like nothing better than to have Baliol
break her back to the two-mile mark and thus dig a watery grave. He suspected also, that, failing
Baliol's willingness to do this, the test would now be forced upon her. For Shelburne was a
heavy crew with all sorts of staying power. What Deacon had to keep in mind was that his eight
was not so rugged and had therefore to be nursed along, conserving energy wherever possible.

It was in the third mile that the battle of wits and judgment had to be carried to conclusion,
the fourth mile lurking as a mere matter of staying power and ability to stand the gaff. Deacon's
idea was that at present his crew was leading because Shelburne was not unwilling for the present
that this should be. How true this was became evident after the two-mile flags had passed,
when the Shelburne oarsmen began to lay to their strokes with tremendous drive, the boat creeping
foot by foot upon the rival shell until the Baliol lead had been overcome and Shelburne herself
swept to the fore.

Deacon raised the stroke slightly, to thirty-three, but soon dropped to thirty-two, watching
Shelburne carefully lest she make a runaway then and there. Baliol was half a length astern
at the two-and-a-half mile mark, passing which the Shelburne crew gave themselves up to a tremendous
effort to kill off her rival then and there.

"Jim! They're doing thirty-six--walking away."

The coxswain's face was white and drawn.

But Deacon continued to pass up a thirty-two stroke while the Shelburne boat slid gradually
away until at the three-mile mark there was a foot of clear water between its rudder and the
prow of the Baliol shell.

Deacon glanced at the coxswain. A mile to go--one deadly mile.

"Thirty-six," he said. "Shelburne's can't have much more left."

The time had passed for study now. Gritting his teeth, Deacon bent to his work, his eyes fixed
upon the swaying body of the coxswain, whose sharp staccato voice snapped out the measure;
the beat of the oars in the locks came as one sound.

"Right, boys! Up we come. Bully--bully--bully! Half a length now. Do you hear? Half a length!
Give me a quarter, boys. Eh, Godfrey! We've got it. Now up and at 'em, Baliol. Oh, you hell-dogs!"

As in a dream Deacon saw the Shelburne boat drift into view, saw the various oarsmen slide
past until he and the rival stroke were rowing practically abeam.

"That's for you, Dad," he muttered--and smiled.

He saw the men swing with quickened rhythm, saw the spray fly like bullets from the Shelburne
blades.

"Look out." There was a note of anguish in Seagraves' voice. "Shelburne's spurting again."

A malediction trembled upon Deacon's lips. So here was the joker held in reserve by the rival
crew! Had Baliol anything left? Had he anything left? Grave doubt was mounting in his soul.
Away swept the Shelburne boat inches at a stroke until the difference in their positions was
nearly a length. Three miles and a half! Not an observer but believed that this gruelling contest
had been worked out. Seagraves, his eyes running tears, believed it as he swung backward and
forward exhorting his men. Half a mile more! The crews were now rowing between the anchored
lines of yachts and excursion-craft. The finish boat was in sight.

And now Deacon, exalted by something nameless, uttered a cry and began to give to Baliol more
than he really had. Surely, steadily, he raised his stroke while his comrades, like the lion-hearts
they were, took it up and put the sanction of common authority upon it. Thirty-four! Thirty-six!
Not the spurt of physical prowess, but of indomitable mentality.

"Up we come!" Seagraves' voice was shrill like a bugle. He could see expressions of stark fear
in the faces of the rival oarsmen. They had given all they had to give, had given enough to
win almost any race. But here in this race they had not given enough.

On came the Baliol shell with terrific impulse. Quarter of a mile; Shelburne passed, her prow
hanging doggedly on to the Baliol rudder.

Victory! Deacon's head became clear. None of the physical torture he had felt in the past mile
was now registered upon his consciousness. No thought but that of impending victory!

"Less than a quarter of a mile, boys. In the stretch. Now--my God!"

Following the coxswain's broken exclamation, Deacon felt an increased resistance upon his blade.

"Eh?"

"Innis has carried away his oarlock." The eyes of the coxswain strained upon Deacon's face.

Deacon gulped. Strangely a picture of his father filled his mind. His face hardened.

"All right! Tell him to throw his oar away and swing with the rest. Don't move your rudder
now. Keep it straight as long as you can."

From astern the sharp eyes of the Shelburne cox had detected the accident to Baliol's Number
Six. His voice was chattering stridently.

Deacon, now doing the work practically of two men, was undergoing torture which shortly would
have one of two effects. Either he would collapse or his spirit would carry him beyond the
claims of overtaxed physique. One stroke, two strokes, three strokes--a groan escaped his lips.
Then so far as personality, personal emotions, personal feelings were concerned, Jim Deacon
ceased to function. He became merely part of the mechanism of a great effort, the principal
guiding part.

And of all those rowing men of Baliol only the coxswain saw the Shelburne boat creeping up
slowly, inexorably--eight men against seven. For nearly a quarter of a mile the grim fight
was waged.

"Ten strokes more, boys!"

The prow of the Shelburne shell was on a line with Baliol's Number Two.

"One--two--three--four----" The bow of the Shelburne boat plunged up abeam Baliol's bow oar.

"Five--six--God, boys!--seven----"

The voice of the coxswain swept upward in a shrill scream. A gun boomed; the air rocked with
the screech and roar of whistles.

Slowly Deacon opened his eyes. Seagraves, the coxswain, was standing up waving his megaphone.
Rollins, at Number Seven, lay prone over his oar. Innis, who had broken his oarlock, sat erect;
Wallace, at Number Five, was down. So was the bow oar. Mechanically Deacon's hand sought the
water, splashing the body of the man in front of him. Then suddenly a mahogany launch dashed
alongside. In the bow was a large man with white moustache and florid face and burning black
eyes. His lips were drawn in a broad grin which seemed an anomaly upon the face of Cephas Doane.

If so he immediately presented a still greater anomaly. He laughed aloud.

"Poor old Shelburne! I--George! The first in four years! I never saw anything quite like that.
We've talked of Baliol's rowing-spirit--eh! Here, you Deacon, let me give you a hand out of
the shell. We'll run you back to quarters."

Deacon, wondering, was pulled to the launch and then suddenly stepped back, his jaw falling,
his eyes alight as a man advanced from the stern.

"Dad!"

"Yes," chuckled Doane. "We came up together--to celebrate."

"You mean--you mean--" Jim Deacon's voice faltered.

"Yes, I mean--" Cephas Doane stopped suddenly. "I think in justice to my daughter-in-law to
be, Jane Bostwick, that some explanation is in order."

"Yes, sir." Deacon, his arm about his father's shoulder, stared at the man.

"You see, Dr. Nicholls had the idea that you needed a finer edge put on your rowing spirit.
So I got Jane to cook up the story about that cashier business at the bank."

"You did!"

"Yes. Of course your father was appointed. The only trouble was that Jane, bright and clever
as she is, bungled her lines."

"Bungled!" Deacon's face cleared. "That's what Dr. Nicholls said about her on the road, the
day I bucked out. I remember the word somehow."

"She bungled, yes. She was to have made it very clear that by winning you would escape my alleged
wrath--or rather, your father would. I knew you would row hard for Baliol, but I thought you
might row superhumanly for your father."

"Well," Jim Deacon flushed, then glanced proudly at his father-- "you were right, sir--I would."

PROFESSOR TODD'S USED CAR

BY L. H. ROBBINS

From Everybody's Magazine

He was a meek little man with sagging frame, dim lamps and feeble ignition. Anxiously he pressed
the salesman to tell him which of us used cars in the wareroom was the slowest and safest.

The salesman laid his hand upon me and declared soberly: "You can't possibly go wrong on this
one, Mr. Todd." To a red-haired boy he called, "Willie, drive Mr. Todd out for a lesson."

We ran to the park and stopped beside a lawn. "Take the wheel," said Willie.

Mr. Todd demurred. "Let me watch you awhile," he pleaded. "You see, I'm new at this sort of
thing. In mechanical matters I am helpless. I might run somebody down or crash into a tree.
I--I don't feel quite up to it to-day, so just let me ride around with you and get used to
the--the motion, as it were."

"All you need is nerve," Willie replied. "The quickest way for you to get nerve is to grab
hold here and, as it were, drive."

"Driving, they say, does give a man self-confidence," our passenger observed tremulously. "Quite
recently I saw an illustration of it. I saw an automobilist slap his wife's face while traveling
thirty miles an hour."

"They will get careless," said Willie.

Mr. Todd clasped the wheel with quivering hands and braced himself for the ordeal.

"Set her in low till her speed's up," Willie directed. "Then wiggle her into high."

It was too mechanical for Mr. Todd. Willie translated with scornful particularity. Under our
pupil's diffident manipulation we began to romp through the park at the rate of one mile an hour.

Willie fretted. "Shoot her some gas," said he. "Give it to her. Don't be a-scared." He pulled
down the throttle-lever himself.

My sudden roaring was mingled with frightened outcries from Todd. "Stop! Wait a minute! Whoa!
Help!"

Fortunately for my radiator, the lamp-post into which he steered me was poorly rooted. He looked
at the wreckage of the glass globe on the grass, and declared he had taken as much of the theory
of motoring as he could absorb in one session.

"This is the only lesson I can give you free," said Willie. "You'd better keep on while the
learning's cheap."

To free education and to compulsory education Mr. Todd pronounced himself opposed. Cramming
was harmful to the student; the elective method was the only humane one. He put off the evil
hour by engaging Willie as a private tutor for the remaining afternoons of the month.

I have met many rabbits but only one Todd. He would visit me in the barn and look at me in
awe by the half-hour. Yet I liked him; I felt drawn toward him in sympathy, for he and I were
fellow victims of the hauteur of Mrs. Todd.

In my travels I have never encountered a glacier. When I do run across one I shall be reminded,
I am certain, of Mr. Todd's lady.

"So you are still alive?" were her cordial words as we rolled into the yard on the first afternoon.

"Yes, my dear." His tone was almost apologetic.

"Did he drive it?" she asked Willie.

"I'll say so, ma'am."

She looked me over coldly. When she finished, I had shrunk to the dimensions of a wheelbarrow.
When Todd sized me up in the warehouse only an hour before, I had felt as imposing as a furniture
van.

"Put it in the barn," said Mrs. Todd, "before a bird carries it off."

I began to suspect that a certain little stranger was not unanimously welcome in that household.
For a moment I was reassured, but only for a moment.

"John Quincy Burton says," she observed, "that a little old used car like this is sometimes
a very good thing to own."

"That is encouraging," said Todd, brightening. In his relief he explained to Willie that John
Quincy Burton drove the largest car in the neighbourhood and was therefore to be regarded as
an authority.

"Yes," Mrs. Todd concluded, "he says he thinks of buying one himself to carry in his tool-box."

Willie was an excellent teacher, though a severe disciplinarian.

But by way of amends for the rigours of the training, Willie would take Mr. Todd after the
practice hour for a spin around the park. At those times I came to learn that the collision
I had had with a trolley-car before Todd bought me had not left me with any constitutional
defect. I still had power under my hood, and speed in my wheels. But what good were power and
speed to me now? I doubted that Todd would ever push me beyond a crawl.

Yet I had hope, for when his relaxation from the tension of a lesson had loosened his tongue
he would chatter to Willie about self-confidence.

"Some day you say, I shall be able to drive without thinking?"

"Sure! You won't have to use your bean any more'n when you walk."

At nights, when no one knew, Mr. Todd would steal into the barn and, after performing the motions
of winding me up, would sit at the wheel and make believe to drive.

"I advance the spark," he would mutter, "I release the brake, I set the gear, and ever so gently
I let in the clutch. Ha! We move, we are off! As we gather speed I pull the gear-lever back,
then over, then forward. Now, was that right? At any rate we are going north, let us say, in
Witherspoon Street. I observe a limousine approaching from the east in a course perpendicular
to mine. It has the right of way, Willie says, so I slip the clutch out, at the same time checking
the flow of gasoline...."

Thus in imagination he would drive; get out, crank, get in again, and roll away in fancy, earnestly
practising by the hour in the dark and silent barn.

"I'm getting it," he would declare. "I really believe I'm getting it!"

And he got it. In his driving examination he stalled only once, stopping dead across a trolley
track in deference to a push-cart. But he was out and in and off again in ten seconds, upbraiding
me like an old-timer.

Said the inspector, stepping out at last and surely offering a prayer of thanks to his patron
saint: "You're pretty reckless yet on corners, my friend." But he scribbled his O.K.

The written examination in the City Hall Mr. Todd passed with high honours. Willie, who was
with us on the fateful morning, exclaimed in admiration: "One hundred! Well, Mr. Todd, you're
alive, after all--from the neck up, at least."

In gratitude for the compliment, the glowing graduate pressed a bonus of two dollars into the
panegyrist's palm. "Willie," he exulted, "did you hear the inspector call me reckless?"

I can scarcely think of the Todd of the succeeding weeks as the same Todd who bought me. He
changed even in looks. He would always be a second, of course, but his frame had rigidity now,
his lamps sparkled, he gripped the wheel with purposeful hands and trampled the pedals in the
way an engine likes. In his new assurance he reminded me strongly of a man who drove me for
a too brief while in my younger days--a rare fellow, now doing time, I believe, in the penitentiary.

No longer Todd and I needed the traffic cop's "Get on out of there, you corn-sheller!" to push
us past the busy intersection of Broad and Main streets. We conquered our tendency to scamper
panic-stricken for the sidewalk at the raucous bark of a jitney bus. In the winding roads of
the park we learned to turn corners on two wheels and rest the other pair for the reverse curve.

One remembered day we went for a run in the country. On a ten-mile piece of new macadam he
gave me all the gas I craved. It was the final test, the consummation, and little old Mr. Todd
was all there. I felt so good I could have blown my radiator cap off to him.

For he was a master I could trust--and all my brother used cars, whether manufactured or merely
born, will understand what comfort that knowledge gives a fellow. I vowed I would do anything
for that man! On that very trip, indeed, I carried him the last homeward mile on nothing in
my tank but a faint odour.

II

Mrs. Todd was one of those gentle souls who get their happiness in being unhappy in the presence
of their so-called loved ones. She was perpetually displeased with Todd.

His Christian name was James, but she did not speak Christian to him. When she hailed him from
the house she called him "Jay-eems"--the "eems" an octave higher than the "Jay."

He would drop the grease-can or the monkey-wrench to rush to her side.

"Look at your sleeves!" she would say. "Your best shirt!" Words failing her, she would sigh
and go into a silence that was worse than words. He was a great burden to her.

Humbly he entreated her one day for an obsolete tooth-brush. "I want to clean spark-plugs with
it," he explained.

"Next," she replied, icily, "you'll be taking your little pet to the dentist, I suppose."

From such encounters Jay-eems would creep back to the barn and seek consolation in tinkering
around me.

He liked to take the lid off my transmission-box and gaze at my wondrous works. He was always
tightening my axle-burrs, or dosing me with kerosene through my hot-air pipe, or toying with
my timer. While he was never so smart as Willie about such things, he was intelligent and quick
to learn; and this was not surprising to me after I discovered the nature of his occupation
in life.

I had taken him to be a retired silk-worm fancier, a chronic juryman, or something of the sort.
But shiver my windshield if he wasn't a professor in a college!

On the morning when first he dared to drive me to his work, the college must have got wind
of our coming, for the students turned out in a body to cheer him as he steered in at the campus
gate, and the faculty gathered on the steps to shake his hand.

A bald-headed preceptor asked him if he meant to cyanide me and mount me on a pin for preservation
in the college museum. The chancellor inquired if Todd had identified me. Todd said he had.
He said I was a perfect specimen of Automobilum cursus gandium, the most beautiful species
of the Golikellece family. It was the nearest he ever came to profanity in my hearing. I suppose
he got it from associating with Willie.

They demanded a speech, and he made one--about me. He said that my name was Hilaritas, signifying
joy. He said, among other flattering things, that I was no common mundane contraption, though
such I might seem to the untutored eye. In their studies of the Greek drama they had read of
gods from the machine. I was a machine from the gods. In my cylinders I consumed nectar vapour,
in my goo-cups ambrosia, in my radiator flowed the crystal waters of the Fount of Bandusia.

Three other items of his eulogium I remember: The breath of Pan inflated my tires, I could
climb Olympus in high, and he, James Todd, a mere professor in a college, while sitting at
my wheel, would not bare his head to Zeus himself, no, nor even to the chairman of the college
board of trustees.

His nonsense appeared to be as popular in that part of town as it was unpopular in another.
They gave the varsity yell with his name at the end.

The day came when Mrs. Todd risked her life in our sportive company. She made it clear to us
that she went protesting. She began her pleasantries by complaining that my doors were trivial.
Straightening her hat, she remarked that the John Quincy Burtons' car top never took a woman's
scalp off.

"But theirs is only a one-man top," Todd hinted vaguely.

"Whatever you mean by that is too deep for me," she said, adding bitterly, "Yours is a one-boy
top, I presume."

He waived the point and asked where she preferred to make her début as an automobilist.

"Back roads, by all means," she answered.

As we gained the street a pea-green Mammoth purred past, the passengers putting out their heads
to look at us.

"Goodness!" she sighed. "There go the John Quincy Burtons now."

"We can soon join them," said Todd confidently.

She expostulated. "Do you think I have no pride?" Yet we went in pursuit of the John Quincy
Burton dust-cloud as it moved toward the park.

"Since you have no regard for my feelings," said she, "you may let me out."

"Oh, no, Amanda, my dear. Why, I'm going to give you a spin to Mountaindale!"

"I do not care to be dragged there," she declared. "That is where the John Quincy Burtons ride."

"Aren't they nice people? It seems to me I've heard you sing hosannas to their name these last
twenty years."

They were nice people indeed. That was just it, she said. Did he suspect her of yearning to
throw herself in the way of nice people on the day of her abasement? If he chose to ignore
her sentiments in the matter, he might at least consider his own interests. Had he forgotten
that John Quincy Burton was chairman of the board of trustees of the college? Would the head
of the department of classical languages acquire merit in Mr. Burton's eyes through dashing
about under Mr. Burton's nose in a pitiable little last-century used car that squeaked?

Todd gripped the wheel tighter and gave me gas.

"You missed that storm sewer by an inch!" she exclaimed.

"My aim is somewhat wild yet," he admitted. "Perhaps I'll get the next one."

"Jay-eems!"

"My dear, we have a horn, remember."

"You did not see that baby carriage until we were right upon it! Don't tell me you did, sir,
for I know better."

"I saw it," said Todd, "and I was sure it wouldn't run over us. As you see, it didn't. Trust
a baby carriage my love."

His humour, she informed him, was on a par with his driving. Also it was in poor taste at such
a moment.

In time of danger, he replied, the brave man jests.

We were now in the park. We clipped a spray of leaves off a syringia bush. On a curve we slid
in loose gravel to the wrong side.

"James Todd!"

"Yes, my dear?"

"Let me out! I decline to be butchered to make a holiday for a motormaniac."

"Don't talk to the motormaniac," said Todd.

She clutched a top support and gasped for breath, appalled at his audacity, or my speed, or
both. In the straight reaches I could see the Burton Mammoth a quarter of a mile ahead. When
it swung into the broad avenue that leads to the mountain, we were holding our own.

"You are following them--deliberately," said Mrs. Todd.

"Yet not so deliberately, at that. Do you feel us pick up my dear, when I give her gas? Aha!"
he laughed. "I agree with you, however, that the order of precedence is unsatisfactory. Why
should we follow the Burtons, indeed?"

We went after them; we gave them the horn and overtook and passed them on a stiff grade, amid
cheers from both cars. But all of our cheering was done by Todd.

"Now they are following us," said he. "Do you feel better, my dear?"

"Better!" she lamented. "How can I ever look them in the face again?"

"Turn around," he suggested, "and direct your gaze through the little window in the back curtain."

She bade him stop at the next corner. She would walk home. She was humiliated. Never had she
felt so ashamed.

"Isn't that an odd way to feel when we have beaten the shoes off them?"

"But they will think we tried to."

"So we did," he chuckled; "and we walked right past them, in high, while Burton was fussing
with his gear shift. Give our little engine a fair go at a hill, my dear----"

"I am not in the least interested in engines, sir. I am only mortified beyond words."

She had words a-plenty, however.

"Isn't it bad enough for you to drive your little rattletrap to college and get into the paper
about it? No; you have to show it off in a fashionable avenue, and run races with the best
people in Ashland, and scream at them like a freshman, and make an exhibition of me!"

His attention was absorbed in hopping out from under a truck coming in from a side street.
A foolish driver would have slowed and crashed. I was proud of Todd. But his lady was not.

"You have no right to go like this. You don't know enough. You will break something."

He had already broken the speed law. Unknown to him, a motor-cycle cop was tagging close behind
us on our blind side.

"If you think this is going, my dear," said Todd reassuringly, "wait till we strike the turnpike.
Then I'll show you what little Hilaritas can really do."

"Stop at the car barns," she commanded.

We crossed the car-barn tracks at a gallop. The cop rode abreast of us now. "Cut it out, Bill,"
he warned.

"You see?" she crowed. "You will wind up in jail and give the papers another scandal. Why didn't
you stop at the car barns?"

"Because we are going to Mountaindale," he explained cheerily; "where the nice people drive.
Perhaps we shall see the John Quincy Burtons again--as we come back."

"If we ever do come back!"

"Or how would you like to have supper with them up there?"

She had gone into one of her silences.

Ill

We settled down for the long pull over First Mountain. Todd slowed my spark and gave me my
head. Then he addressed the partner of his joy-ride in a new voice: "Amanda, my dear, you and
I need to have a frank little understanding."

She agreed.

"For some years past," he began, "I have borne without complaint, even without resentment,
a certain attitude that you have seen fit to adopt toward me. I have borne it patiently because
I felt that to an extent I deserved it."

My floor boards creaked as she gathered her forces for the counter attack. He went on recklessly:

