CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH

By Charles Dudley Warner

PREFACE

When I consented to prepare this volume for a series, which should deal with the notables of
American history with some familiarity and disregard of historic gravity, I did not anticipate
the seriousness of the task. But investigation of the subject showed me that while Captain
John Smith would lend himself easily enough to the purely facetious treatment, there were historic
problems worthy of a different handling, and that if the life of Smith was to be written, an
effort should be made to state the truth, and to disentangle the career of the adventurer from
the fables and misrepresentations that have clustered about it.

The extant biographies of Smith, and the portions of the history of Virginia that relate to
him, all follow his own narrative, and accept his estimate of himself, and are little more
than paraphrases of his story as told by himself. But within the last twenty years some new
contemporary evidence has come to light, and special scholars have expended much critical research
upon different portions of his career. The result of this modern investigation has been to
discredit much of the romance gathered about Smith and Pocahontas, and a good deal to reduce
his heroic proportions. A vague report of--these scholarly studies has gone abroad, but no
effort has been made to tell the real story of Smith as a connected whole in the light of the
new researches.

This volume is an effort to put in popular form the truth about Smith's adventures, and to
estimate his exploits and character. For this purpose I have depended almost entirely upon
original contemporary material, illumined as it now is by the labors of special editors. I
believe that I have read everything that is attributed to his pen, and have compared his own
accounts with other contemporary narratives, and I think I have omitted the perusal of little
that could throw any light upon his life or character. For the early part of his career--before
he came to Virginia--there is absolutely no authority except Smith himself; but when he emerges
from romance into history, he can be followed and checked by contemporary evidence. If he was
always and uniformly untrustworthy it would be less perplexing to follow him, but his liability
to tell the truth when vanity or prejudice does not interfere is annoying to the careful student.

As far as possible I have endeavored to let the actors in these pages tell their own story,
and I have quoted freely from Capt. Smith himself, because it is as a writer that he is to
be judged no less than as an actor. His development of the Pocahontas legend has been carefully
traced, and all the known facts about that Indian--or Indese, as some of the old chroniclers
call the female North Americans--have been consecutively set forth in separate chapters. The
book is not a history of early Virginia, nor of the times of Smith, but merely a study of his
life and writings. If my estimate of the character of Smith is not that which his biographers
have entertained, and differs from his own candid opinion, I can only plead that contemporary
evidence and a collation of his own stories show that he was mistaken. I am not aware that
there has been before any systematic effort to collate his different accounts of his exploits.
If he had ever undertaken the task, he might have disturbed that serene opinion of himself
which marks him as a man who realized his own ideals.

The works used in this study are, first, the writings of Smith, which are as follows:

"A True Relation," etc., London, 1608.

"A Map of Virginia, Description and Appendix," Oxford, 1612.

"A Description of New England," etc., London, 1616.

"New England's Trials," etc., London, 1620. Second edition, enlarged, 1622.

"The Generall Historie," etc., London, 1624. Reissued, with date of title-page altered, in
1626, 1627, and twice in 1632.

"An Accidence: or, The Pathway to Experience," etc., London, 1626.

"A Sea Grammar," etc., London, 1627. Also editions in 1653 and 1699.

"The True Travels," etc., London, 1630.

"Advertisements for the Unexperienced Planters of New England," etc., London, 1631.

Other authorities are:

"The Historie of Travaile into Virginia," etc., by William Strachey, Secretary of the colony
1609 to 1612. First printed for the Hakluyt Society, London, 1849.

"Newport's Relatyon," 1607. Am. Ant. Soc., Vol. 4.

"Wingfield's Discourse," etc., 1607. Am. Ant. Soc., Vol. 4.

"Purchas his Pilgrimage," London, 1613.

"Purchas his Pilgrimes," London, 1625-6.

"Ralph Hamor's True Discourse," etc., London, 1615.

"Relation of Virginia," by Henry Spelman, 1609. First printed by J. F. Hunnewell, London, 1872.

"History of the Virginia Company in London," by Edward D. Neill, Albany, 1869.

"William Stith's History of Virginia," 1753, has been consulted for the charters and letters-patent.
The Pocahontas discussion has been followed in many magazine papers. I am greatly indebted
to the scholarly labors of Charles Deane, LL.D., the accomplished editor of the "True Relation,"
and other Virginia monographs. I wish also to acknowledge the courtesy of the librarians of
the Astor, the Lenox, the New York Historical, Yale, and Cornell libraries, and of Dr. J. Hammond
Trumbull, the custodian of the Brinley collection, and the kindness of Mr. S. L. M. Barlow
of New York, who is ever ready to give students access to his rich "Americana."

C. D. W. HARTFORD, June, 1881

CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH

I. BIRTH AND TRAINING

Fortunate is the hero who links his name romantically with that of a woman. A tender interest
in his fame is assured. Still more fortunate is he if he is able to record his own achievements
and give to them that form and color and importance which they assume in his own gallant consciousness.
Captain John Smith, the first of an honored name, had this double good fortune.

We are indebted to him for the glowing picture of a knight-errant of the sixteenth century,
moving with the port of a swash-buckler across the field of vision, wherever cities were to
be taken and heads cracked in Europe, Asia, and Africa, and, in the language of one of his
laureates--

     "To see bright honor sparkled all in gore."

But we are specially his debtor for adventures on our own continent, narrated with naivete
and vigor by a pen as direct and clear-cutting as the sword with which he shaved off the heads
of the Turks, and for one of the few romances that illumine our early history.

Captain John Smith understood his good fortune in being the recorder of his own deeds, and
he preceded Lord Beaconsfield (in "Endymion") in his appreciation of the value of the influence
of women upon the career of a hero. In the dedication of his "General Historie" to Frances,
Duchess of Richmond, he says:

"I have deeply hazarded myself in doing and suffering, and why should I sticke to hazard my
reputation in recording? He that acteth two parts is the more borne withall if he come short,
or fayle in one of them. Where shall we looke to finde a Julius Caesar whose atchievments shine
as cleare in his owne Commentaries, as they did in the field? I confesse, my hand though able
to wield a weapon among the Barbarous, yet well may tremble in handling a Pen among so many
judicious; especially when I am so bold as to call so piercing and so glorious an Eye, as your
Grace, to view these poore ragged lines. Yet my comfort is that heretofore honorable and vertuous
Ladies, and comparable but amongst themselves, have offered me rescue and protection in my
greatest dangers: even in forraine parts, I have felt reliefe from that sex. The beauteous
Lady Tragabigzanda, when I was a slave to the Turks, did all she could to secure me. When I
overcame the Bashaw of Nalbrits in Tartaria, the charitable Lady Callamata supplyed my necessities.
In the utmost of my extremities, that blessed Pokahontas, the great King's daughter of Virginia,
oft saved my life. When I escaped the cruelties of Pirats and most furious stormes, a long
time alone in a small Boat at Sea, and driven ashore in France, the good Lady Chanoyes bountifully
assisted me."

It is stated in his "True Travels" that John Smith was born in Willoughby, in Lincolnshire.
The year of his birth is not given, but it was probably in 1579, as it appears by the portrait
prefixed to that work that he was aged 37 years in 1616. We are able to add also that the rector
of the Willoughby Rectory, Alford, finds in the register an entry of the baptism of John, son
of George Smith, under date of Jan. 9, 1579. His biographers, following his account, represent
him as of ancient lineage: "His father actually descended from the ancient Smiths of Crudley
in Lancashire, his mother from the Rickands at great Heck in Yorkshire;" but the circumstances
of his boyhood would indicate that like many other men who have made themselves a name, his
origin was humble. If it had been otherwise he would scarcely have been bound as an apprentice,
nor had so much difficulty in his advancement. But the boy was born with a merry disposition,
and in his earliest years was impatient for adventure. The desire to rove was doubtless increased
by the nature of his native shire, which offered every inducement to the lad of spirit to leave it.

Lincolnshire is the most uninteresting part of all England. It is frequently water-logged till
late in the summer: invisible a part of the year, when it emerges it is mostly a dreary flat.
Willoughby is a considerable village in this shire, situated about three miles and a half southeastward
from Alford. It stands just on the edge of the chalk hills whose drives gently slope down to
the German Ocean, and the scenery around offers an unvarying expanse of flats. All the villages
in this part of Lincolnshire exhibit the same character. The name ends in by, the Danish word
for hamlet or small village, and we can measure the progress of the Danish invasion of England
by the number of towns which have the terminal by, distinguished from the Saxon thorpe, which
generally ends the name of villages in Yorkshire. The population may be said to be Danish light-haired
and blue-eyed. Such was John Smith. The sea was the natural element of his neighbors, and John
when a boy must have heard many stories of the sea and enticing adventures told by the sturdy
mariners who were recruited from the neighborhood of Willoughby, and whose oars had often cloven
the Baltic Sea.

Willoughby boasts some antiquity. Its church is a spacious structure, with a nave, north and
south aisles, and a chancel, and a tower at the west end. In the floor is a stone with a Latin
inscription, in black letter, round the verge, to the memory of one Gilbert West, who died
in 1404. The church is dedicated to St. Helen. In the village the Wesleyan Methodists also
have a place of worship. According to the parliamentary returns of 1825, the parish including
the hamlet of Sloothby contained 108 houses and 514 inhabitants. All the churches in Lincolnshire
indicate the existence of a much larger population who were in the habit of attending service
than exists at present. Many of these now empty are of size sufficient to accommodate the entire
population of several villages. Such a one is Willoughby, which unites in its church the adjacent
village of Sloothby.

The stories of the sailors and the contiguity of the salt water had more influence on the boy's
mind than the free, schools of Alford and Louth which he attended, and when he was about thirteen
he sold his books and satchel and intended to run away to sea: but the death of his father
stayed him. Both his parents being now dead, he was left with, he says, competent means; but
his guardians regarding his estate more than himself, gave him full liberty and no money, so
that he was forced to stay at home.

At the age of fifteen he was bound apprentice to Mr. Thomas S. Tendall of Lynn. The articles,
however, did not bind him very fast, for as his master refused to send him to sea, John took
leave of his master and did not see him again for eight years. These details exhibit in the
boy the headstrong independence of the man.

At length he found means to attach himself to a young son of the great soldier, Lord Willoughby,
who was going into France. The narrative is not clear, but it appears that upon reaching Orleans,
in a month or so the services of John were found to be of no value, and he was sent back to
his friends, who on his return generously gave him ten shillings (out of his own estate) to
be rid of him. He is next heard of enjoying his liberty at Paris and making the acquaintance
of a Scotchman named David Hume, who used his purse--ten shillings went a long ways in those
days--and in return gave him letters of commendation to prefer him to King James. But the boy
had a disinclination to go where he was sent. Reaching Rouen, and being nearly out of money,
he dropped down the river to Havre de Grace, and began to learn to be a soldier.

Smith says not a word of the great war of the Leaguers and Henry IV., nor on which side he
fought, nor is it probable that he cared. But he was doubtless on the side of Henry, as Havre
was at this time in possession of that soldier. Our adventurer not only makes no reference
to the great religious war, nor to the League, nor to Henry, but he does not tell who held
Paris when he visited it. Apparently state affairs did not interest him. His reference to a
"peace" helps us to fix the date of his first adventure in France. Henry published the Edict
of Nantes at Paris, April 13, 1598, and on the 2d of May following, concluded the treaty of
France with Philip II. at Vervins, which closed the Spanish pretensions in France. The Duc
de Mercoeur (of whom we shall hear later as Smith's "Duke of Mercury" in Hungary), Duke of
Lorraine, was allied with the Guises in the League, and had the design of holding Bretagne
under Spanish protection. However, fortune was against him and he submitted to Henry in February,
1598, with no good grace. Looking about for an opportunity to distinguish himself, he offered
his services to the Emperor Rudolph to fight the Turks, and it is said led an army of his French
followers, numbering 15,000, in 1601, to Hungary, to raise the siege of Coniza, which was beleaguered
by Ibrahim Pasha with 60,000 men.

Chance of fighting and pay failing in France by reason of the peace, he enrolled himself under
the banner of one of the roving and fighting captains of the time, who sold their swords in
the best market, and went over into the Low Countries, where he hacked and hewed away at his
fellow-men, all in the way of business, for three or four years. At the end of that time he
bethought himself that he had not delivered his letters to Scotland. He embarked at Aucusan
for Leith, and seems to have been shipwrecked, and detained by illness in the "holy isle" in
Northumberland, near Barwick. On his recovery he delivered his letters, and received kind treatment
from the Scots; but as he had no money, which was needed to make his way as a courtier, he
returned to Willoughby.

The family of Smith is so "ancient" that the historians of the county of Lincoln do not allude
to it, and only devote a brief paragraph to the great John himself. Willoughby must have been
a dull place to him after his adventures, but he says he was glutted with company, and retired
into a woody pasture, surrounded by forests, a good ways from any town, and there built himself
a pavilion of boughs--less substantial than the cabin of Thoreau at Walden Pond--and there
he heroically slept in his clothes, studied Machiavelli's "Art of War," read "Marcus Aurelius,"
and exercised on his horse with lance and ring. This solitary conduct got him the name of a
hermit, whose food was thought to be more of venison than anything else, but in fact his men
kept him supplied with provisions. When John had indulged in this ostentatious seclusion for
a time, he allowed himself to be drawn out of it by the charming discourse of a noble Italian
named Theodore Palaloga, who just then was Rider to Henry, Earl of Lincoln, and went to stay
with him at Tattershall. This was an ancient town, with a castle, which belonged to the Earls
of Lincoln, and was situated on the River Bane, only fourteen miles from Boston, a name that
at once establishes a connection between Smith's native county and our own country, for it
is nearly as certain that St. Botolph founded a monastery at Boston, Lincoln, in the year 654,
as it is that he founded a club afterwards in Boston, Massachusetts.

Whatever were the pleasures of Tattershall, they could not long content the restless Smith,
who soon set out again for the Netherlands in search of adventures.

The life of Smith, as it is related by himself, reads like that of a belligerent tramp, but
it was not uncommon in his day, nor is it in ours, whenever America produces soldiers of fortune
who are ready, for a compensation, to take up the quarrels of Egyptians or Chinese, or go wherever
there is fighting and booty. Smith could now handle arms and ride a horse, and longed to go
against the Turks, whose anti-Christian contests filled his soul with lamentations; and besides
he was tired of seeing Christians slaughter each other. Like most heroes, he had a vivid imagination
that made him credulous, and in the Netherlands he fell into the toils of three French gallants,
one of whom pretended to be a great lord, attended by his gentlemen, who persuaded him to accompany
them to the "Duchess of Mercury," whose lord was then a general of Rodolphus of Hungary, whose
favor they could command. Embarking with these arrant cheats, the vessel reached the coast
of Picardy, where his comrades contrived to take ashore their own baggage and Smith's trunk,
containing his money and goodly apparel, leaving him on board. When the captain, who was in
the plot, was enabled to land Smith the next day, the noble lords had disappeared with the
luggage, and Smith, who had only a single piece of gold in his pocket, was obliged to sell
his cloak to pay his passage.

Thus stripped, he roamed about Normandy in a forlorn condition, occasionally entertained by
honorable persons who had heard of his misfortunes, and seeking always means of continuing
his travels, wandering from port to port on the chance of embarking on a man-of-war. Once he
was found in a forest near dead with grief and cold, and rescued by a rich farmer; shortly
afterwards, in a grove in Brittany, he chanced upon one of the gallants who had robbed him,
and the two out swords and fell to cutting. Smith had the satisfaction of wounding the rascal,
and the inhabitants of a ruined tower near by, who witnessed the combat, were quite satisfied
with the event.

Our hero then sought out the Earl of Ployer, who had been brought up in England during the
French wars, by whom he was refurnished better than ever. After this streak of luck, he roamed
about France, viewing the castles and strongholds, and at length embarked at Marseilles on
a ship for Italy. Rough weather coming on, the vessel anchored under the lee of the little
isle St. Mary, off Nice, in Savoy.

The passengers on board, among whom were many pilgrims bound for Rome, regarded Smith as a
Jonah, cursed him for a Huguenot, swore that his nation were all pirates, railed against Queen
Elizabeth, and declared that they never should have fair weather so long as he was on board.
To end the dispute, they threw him into the sea. But God got him ashore on the little island,
whose only inhabitants were goats and a few kine. The next day a couple of trading vessels
anchored near, and he was taken off and so kindly used that he decided to cast in his fortune
with them. Smith's discourse of his adventures so entertained the master of one of the vessels,
who is described as "this noble Britaine, his neighbor, Captaine la Roche, of Saint Malo,"
that the much-tossed wanderer was accepted as a friend. They sailed to the Gulf of Turin, to
Alessandria, where they discharged freight, then up to Scanderoon, and coasting for some time
among the Grecian islands, evidently in search of more freight, they at length came round to
Cephalonia, and lay to for some days betwixt the isle of Corfu and the Cape of Otranto. Here
it presently appeared what sort of freight the noble Britaine, Captain la Roche, was looking for.

An argosy of Venice hove in sight, and Captaine la Roche desired to speak to her. The reply
was so "untoward" that a man was slain, whereupon the Britaine gave the argosy a broadside,
and then his stem, and then other broadsides. A lively fight ensued, in which the Britaine
lost fifteen men, and the argosy twenty, and then surrendered to save herself from sinking.
The noble Britaine and John Smith then proceeded to rifle her. He says that "the Silkes, Velvets,
Cloth of Gold, and Tissue, Pyasters, Chiqueenes, and Suitanies, which is gold and silver, they
unloaded in four-and-twenty hours was wonderful, whereof having sufficient, and tired with
toils, they cast her off with her company, with as much good merchandise as would have freighted
another Britaine, that was but two hundred Tunnes, she four or five hundred." Smith's share
of this booty was modest. When the ship returned he was set ashore at "the Road of Antibo in
Piamon," "with five hundred chiqueenes [sequins] and a little box God sent him worth neere
as much more." He always devoutly acknowledged his dependence upon divine Providence, and took
willingly what God sent him.

II. FIGHTING IN HUNGARY

Smith being thus "refurnished," made the tour of Italy, satisfied himself with the rarities
of Rome, where he saw Pope Clement the Eighth and many cardinals creep up the holy stairs,
and with the fair city of Naples and the kingdom's nobility; and passing through the north
he came into Styria, to the Court of Archduke Ferdinand; and, introduced by an Englishman and
an Irish Jesuit to the notice of Baron Kisell, general of artillery, he obtained employment,
and went to Vienna with Colonel Voldo, Earl of Meldritch, with whose regiment he was to serve.

He was now on the threshold of his long-desired campaign against the Turks. The arrival on
the scene of this young man, who was scarcely out of his teens, was a shadow of disaster to
the Turks. They had been carrying all before them. Rudolph II., Emperor of Germany, was a weak
and irresolute character, and no match for the enterprising Sultan, Mahomet III., who was then
conducting the invasion of Europe. The Emperor's brother, the Archduke Mathias, who was to
succeed him, and Ferdinand, Duke of Styria, also to become Emperor of Germany, were much abler
men, and maintained a good front against the Moslems in Lower Hungary, but the Turks all the
time steadily advanced. They had long occupied Buda (Pesth), and had been in possession of
the stronghold of Alba Regalis for some sixty years. Before Smith's advent they had captured
the important city of Caniza, and just as he reached the ground they had besieged the town
of Olumpagh, with two thousand men. But the addition to the armies of Germany, France, Styria,
and Hungary of John Smith, "this English gentleman," as he styles himself, put a new face on
the war, and proved the ruin of the Turkish cause. The Bashaw of Buda was soon to feel the
effect of this re-enforcement.

Caniza is a town in Lower Hungary, north of the River Drave, and just west of the Platen Sea,
or Lake Balatin, as it is also called. Due north of Caniza a few miles, on a bend of the little
River Raab (which empties into the Danube), and south of the town of Kerment, lay Smith's town
of Olumpagh, which we are able to identify on a map of the period as Olimacum or Oberlymback.
In this strong town the Turks had shut up the garrison under command of Governor Ebersbraught
so closely that it was without intelligence or hope of succor.

In this strait, the ingenious John Smith, who was present in the reconnoitering army in the
regiment of the Earl of Meldritch, came to the aid of Baron Kisell, the general of artillery,
with a plan of communication with the besieged garrison. Fortunately Smith had made the acquaintance
of Lord Ebersbraught at Gratza, in Styria, and had (he says) communicated to him a system of
signaling a message by the use of torches. Smith seems to have elaborated this method of signals,
and providentially explained it to Lord Ebersbraught, as if he had a presentiment of the latter's
use of it. He divided the alphabet into two parts, from A to L and from M to Z. Letters were
indicated and words spelled by the means of torches: "The first part, from A to L, is signified
by showing and holding one linke so oft as there is letters from A to that letter you name;
the other part, from M to Z, is mentioned by two lights in like manner. The end of a word is
signifien by showing of three lights."

General Kisell, inflamed by this strange invention, which Smith made plain to him, furnished
him guides, who conducted him to a high mountain, seven miles distant from the town, where
he flashed his torches and got a reply from the governor. Smith signaled that they would charge
on the east of the town in the night, and at the alarum Ebersbraught was to sally forth. General
Kisell doubted that he should be able to relieve the town by this means, as he had only ten
thousand men; but Smith, whose fertile brain was now in full action, and who seems to have
assumed charge of the campaign, hit upon a stratagem for the diversion and confusion of the Turks.

On the side of the town opposite the proposed point of attack lay the plain of Hysnaburg (Eisnaburg
on Ortelius's map). Smith fastened two or three charred pieces of match to divers small lines
of an hundred fathoms in length, armed with powder. Each line was tied to a stake at each end.
After dusk these lines were set up on the plain, and being fired at the instant the alarm was
given, they seemed to the Turks like so many rows of musketeers. While the Turks therefore
prepared to repel a great army from that side, Kisell attacked with his ten thousand men, Ebersbraught
sallied out and fell upon the Turks in the trenches, all the enemy on that side were slain
or drowned, or put to flight. And while the Turks were busy routing Smith's sham musketeers,
the Christians threw a couple of thousand troops into the town. Whereupon the Turks broke up
the siege and retired to Caniza. For this exploit General Kisell received great honor at Kerment,
and Smith was rewarded with the rank of captain, and the command of two hundred and fifty horsemen.
From this time our hero must figure as Captain John Smith. The rank is not high, but he has
made the title great, just as he has made the name of John Smith unique.

After this there were rumors of peace for these tormented countries; but the Turks, who did
not yet appreciate the nature of this force, called John Smith, that had come into the world
against them, did not intend peace, but went on levying soldiers and launching them into Hungary.
To oppose these fresh invasions, Rudolph II., aided by the Christian princes, organized three
armies: one led by the Archduke Mathias and his lieutenant, Duke Mercury, to defend Low Hungary;
the second led by Ferdinand, the Archduke of Styria, and the Duke of Mantua, his lieutenant,
to regain Caniza; the third by Gonzago, Governor of High Hungary, to join with Georgio Busca,
to make an absolute conquest of Transylvania.

In pursuance of this plan, Duke Mercury, with an army of thirty thousand, whereof nearly ten
thousand were French, besieged Stowell-Weisenberg, otherwise called Alba Regalis, a place so
strong by art and nature that it was thought impregnable.

This stronghold, situated on the northeast of the Platen Sea, was, like Caniza and Oberlympack,
one of the Turkish advanced posts, by means of which they pushed forward their operations from
Buda on the Danube.

This noble friend of Smith, the Duke of Mercury, whom Haylyn styles Duke Mercurio, seems to
have puzzled the biographers of Smith. In fact, the name of "Mercury" has given a mythological
air to Smith's narration and aided to transfer it to the region of romance. He was, however,
as we have seen, identical with a historical character of some importance, for the services
he rendered to the Church of Rome, and a commander of some considerable skill. He is no other
than Philip de Lorraine, Duc de Mercceur.'

[So far as I know, Dr. Edward Eggleston was the first to identify him. There is a sketch of
him in the "Biographie Universelle," and a life with an account of his exploits in Hungary,
entitled: Histoire de Duc Mercoeur, par Bruseles de Montplain Champs, Cologne, 1689-97]

At the siege of Alba Regalis, the Turks gained several successes by night sallies, and, as
usual, it was not till Smith came to the front with one of his ingenious devices that the fortune
of war changed. The Earl Meldritch, in whose regiment Smith served, having heard from some
Christians who escaped from the town at what place there were the greatest assemblies and throngs
of people in the city, caused Captain Smith to put in practice his "fiery dragons." These instruments
of destruction are carefully described: "Having prepared fortie or fiftie round-bellied earthen
pots, and filled them with hand Gunpowder, then covered them with Pitch, mingled with Brimstone
and Turpentine, and quartering as many Musket-bullets, that hung together but only at the center
of the division, stucke them round in the mixture about the pots, and covered them againe with
the same mixture, over that a strong sear-cloth, then over all a goode thicknesse of Towze-match,
well tempered with oyle of Linseed, Campheer, and powder of Brimstone, these he fitly placed
in slings, graduated so neere as they could to the places of these assemblies."

These missiles of Smith's invention were flung at midnight, when the alarum was given, and
"it was a perfect sight to see the short flaming course of their flight in the air, but presently
after their fall, the lamentable noise of the miserable slaughtered Turkes was most wonderful
to heare."

While Smith was amusing the Turks in this manner, the Earl Rosworme planned an attack on the
opposite suburb, which was defended by a muddy lake, supposed to be impassable. Furnishing
his men with bundles of sedge, which they threw before them as they advanced in the dark night,
the lake was made passable, the suburb surprised, and the captured guns of the Turks were turned
upon them in the city to which they had retreated. The army of the Bashaw was cut to pieces
and he himself captured.

The Earl of Meldritch, having occupied the town, repaired the walls and the ruins of this famous
city that had been in the possession of the Turks for some threescore years.

It is not our purpose to attempt to trace the meteoric course of Captain Smith in all his campaigns
against the Turks, only to indicate the large part he took in these famous wars for the possession
of Eastern Europe. The siege of Alba Regalis must have been about the year 1601--Smith never
troubles himself with any dates--and while it was undecided, Mahomet III.--this was the prompt
Sultan who made his position secure by putting to death nineteen of his brothers upon his accession--raised
sixty thousand troops for its relief or its recovery. The Duc de Mercoeur went out to meet
this army, and encountered it in the plains of Girke. In the first skirmishes the Earl Meldritch
was very nearly cut off, although he made "his valour shine more bright than his armour, which
seemed then painted with Turkish blood." Smith himself was sore wounded and had his horse slain
under him. The campaign, at first favorable to the Turks, was inconclusive, and towards winter
the Bashaw retired to Buda. The Duc de Mercoeur then divided his army. The Earl of Rosworme
was sent to assist the Archduke Ferdinand, who was besieging Caniza; the Earl of Meldritch,
with six thousand men, was sent to assist Georgio Busca against the Transylvanians; and the
Duc de Mercoeur set out for France to raise new forces. On his way he received great honor
at Vienna, and staying overnight at Nuremberg, he was royally entertained by the Archdukes
Mathias and Maximilian. The next morning after the feast--how it chanced is not known--he was
found dead His brother-inlaw died two days afterwards, and the hearts of both, with much sorrow,
were carried into France.

We now come to the most important event in the life of Smith before he became an adventurer
in Virginia, an event which shows Smith's readiness to put in practice the chivalry which had
in the old chronicles influenced his boyish imagination; and we approach it with the satisfaction
of knowing that it loses nothing in Smith's narration.

It must be mentioned that Transylvania, which the Earl of Meldritch, accompanied by Captain
Smith, set out to relieve, had long been in a disturbed condition, owing to internal dissensions,
of which the Turks took advantage. Transylvania, in fact, was a Turkish dependence, and it
gives us an idea of the far reach of the Moslem influence in Europe, that Stephen VI., vaivode
of Transylvania, was, on the commendation of Sultan Armurath III., chosen King of Poland.

To go a little further back than the period of Smith's arrival, John II. of Transylvania was
a champion of the Turk, and an enemy of Ferdinand and his successors. His successor, Stephen
VI., surnamed Battori, or Bathor, was made vaivode by the Turks, and afterwards, as we have
said, King of Poland. He was succeeded in 1575 by his brother Christopher Battori, who was
the first to drop the title of vaivode and assume that of Prince of Transylvania. The son of
Christopher, Sigismund Battori, shook off the Turkish bondage, defeated many of their armies,
slew some of their pashas, and gained the title of the Scanderbeg of the times in which he
lived. Not able to hold out, however, against so potent an adversary, he resigned his estate
to the Emperor Rudolph II., and received in exchange the dukedoms of Oppelon and Ratibor in
Silesia, with an annual pension of fifty thousand joachims. The pension not being well paid,
Sigismund made another resignation of his principality to his cousin Andrew Battori, who had
the ill luck to be slain within the year by the vaivode of Valentia. Thereupon Rudolph, Emperor
and King of Hungary, was acknowledged Prince of Transylvania. But the Transylvania soldiers
did not take kindly to a foreign prince, and behaved so unsoldierly that Sigismund was called
back. But he was unable to settle himself in his dominions, and the second time he left his
country in the power of Rudolph and retired to Prague, where, in 1615, he died unlamented.

It was during this last effort of Sigismund to regain his position that the Earl of Meldritch,
accompanied by Smith, went to Transylvania, with the intention of assisting Georgio Busca,
who was the commander of the Emperor's party. But finding Prince Sigismund in possession of
the most territory and of the hearts of the people, the earl thought it best to assist the
prince against the Turk, rather than Busca against the prince. Especially was he inclined to
that side by the offer of free liberty of booty for his worn and unpaid troops, of what they
could get possession of from the Turks.

This last consideration no doubt persuaded the troops that Sigismund had "so honest a cause."
The earl was born in Transylvania, and the Turks were then in possession of his father's country.
In this distracted state of the land, the frontiers had garrisons among the mountains, some
of which held for the emperor, some for the prince, and some for the Turk. The earl asked leave
of the prince to make an attempt to regain his paternal estate. The prince, glad of such an
ally, made him camp-master of his army, and gave him leave to plunder the Turks. Accordingly
the earl began to make incursions of the frontiers into what Smith calls the Land of Zarkam--among
rocky mountains, where were some Turks, some Tartars, but most Brandittoes, Renegadoes, and
such like, which he forced into the Plains of Regall, where was a city of men and fortifications,
strong in itself, and so environed with mountains that it had been impregnable in all these wars.

It must be confessed that the historians and the map-makers did not always attach the importance
that Smith did to the battles in which he was conspicuous, and we do not find the Land of Zarkam
or the city of Regall in the contemporary chronicles or atlases. But the region is sufficiently
identified. On the River Maruch, or Morusus, was the town of Alba Julia, or Weisenberg, the
residence of the vaivode or Prince of Transylvania. South of this capital was the town Millenberg,
and southwest of this was a very strong fortress, commanding a narrow pass leading into Transylvania
out of Hungary, probably where the River Maruct: broke through the mountains. We infer that
it was this pass that the earl captured by a stratagem, and carrying his army through it, began
the siege of Regall in the plain. "The earth no sooner put on her green habit," says our knight-errant,
"than the earl overspread her with his troops." Regall occupied a strong fortress on a promontory
and the Christians encamped on the plain before it.

In the conduct of this campaign, we pass at once into the age of chivalry, about which Smith
had read so much. We cannot but recognize that this is his opportunity. His idle boyhood had
been soaked in old romances, and he had set out in his youth to do what equally dreamy but
less venturesome devourers of old chronicles were content to read about. Everything arranged
itself as Smith would have had it. When the Christian army arrived, the Turks sallied out and
gave it a lively welcome, which cost each side about fifteen hundred men. Meldritch had but
eight thousand soldiers, but he was re-enforced by the arrival of nine thousand more, with
six-and-twenty pieces of ordnance, under Lord Zachel Moyses, the general of the army, who took
command of the whole.

After the first skirmish the Turks remained within their fortress, the guns of which commanded
the plain, and the Christians spent a month in intrenching themselves and mounting their guns.

The Turks, who taught Europe the art of civilized war, behaved all this time in a courtly and
chivalric manner, exchanging with the besiegers wordy compliments until such time as the latter
were ready to begin. The Turks derided the slow progress of the works, inquired if their ordnance
was in pawn, twitted them with growing fat for want of exercise, and expressed the fear that
the Christians should depart without making an assault.

In order to make the time pass pleasantly, and exactly in accordance with the tales of chivalry
which Smith had read, the Turkish Bashaw in the fortress sent out his challenge: "That to delight
the ladies, who did long to see some courtlike pastime, the Lord Tubashaw did defy any captaine
that had the command of a company, who durst combat with him for his head."

This handsome offer to swap heads was accepted; lots were cast for the honor of meeting the
lord, and, fortunately for us, the choice fell upon an ardent fighter of twenty-three years,
named Captain John Smith. Nothing was wanting to give dignity to the spectacle. Truce was made;
the ramparts of this fortress-city in the mountains (which we cannot find on the map) were
"all beset with faire Dames and men in Armes"; the Christians were drawn up in battle array;
and upon the theatre thus prepared the Turkish Bashaw, armed and mounted, entered with a flourish
of hautboys; on his shoulders were fixed a pair of great wings, compacted of eagles' feathers
within a ridge of silver richly garnished with gold and precious stones; before him was a janissary
bearing his lance, and a janissary walked at each side leading his steed.

This gorgeous being Smith did not keep long waiting. Riding into the field with a flourish
of trumpets, and only a simple page to bear his lance, Smith favored the Bashaw with a courteous
salute, took position, charged at the signal, and before the Bashaw could say "Jack Robinson,"
thrust his lance through the sight of his beaver, face, head and all, threw him dead to the
ground, alighted, unbraced his helmet, and cut off his head. The whole affair was over so suddenly
that as a pastime for ladies it must have been disappointing. The Turks came out and took the
headless trunk, and Smith, according to the terms of the challenge, appropriated the head and
presented it to General Moyses.

This ceremonious but still hasty procedure excited the rage of one Grualgo, the friend of the
Bashaw, who sent a particular challenge to Smith to regain his friend's head or lose his own,
together with his horse and armor. Our hero varied the combat this time. The two combatants
shivered lances and then took to pistols; Smith received a mark upon the "placard," but so
wounded the Turk in his left arm that he was unable to rule his horse. Smith then unhorsed
him, cut off his head, took possession of head, horse, and armor, but returned the rich apparel
and the body to his friends in the most gentlemanly manner.

Captain Smith was perhaps too serious a knight to see the humor of these encounters, but he
does not lack humor in describing them, and he adopted easily the witty courtesies of the code
he was illustrating. After he had gathered two heads, and the siege still dragged, he became
in turn the challenger, in phrase as courteously and grimly facetious as was permissible, thus:

"To delude time, Smith, with so many incontradictible perswading reasons, obtained leave that
the Ladies might know he was not so much enamored of their servants' heads, but if any Turke
of their ranke would come to the place of combat to redeem them, should have also his, upon
like conditions, if he could winne it."

This considerate invitation was accepted by a person whom Smith, with his usual contempt for
names, calls "Bonny Mulgro." It seems difficult to immortalize such an appellation, and it
is a pity that we have not the real one of the third Turk whom Smith honored by killing. But
Bonny Mulgro, as we must call the worthiest foe that Smith's prowess encountered, appeared
upon the field. Smith understands working up a narration, and makes this combat long and doubtful.
The challenged party, who had the choice of weapons, had marked the destructiveness of his
opponent's lance, and elected, therefore, to fight with pistols and battle-axes. The pistols
proved harmless, and then the battle-axes came in play, whose piercing bills made sometime
the one, sometime the other, to have scarce sense to keep their saddles. Smith received such
a blow that he lost his battle-axe, whereat the Turks on the ramparts set up a great shout.
"The Turk prosecuted his advantage to the utmost of his power; yet the other, what by the readiness
of his horse, and his judgment and dexterity in such a business, beyond all men's expectations,
by God's assistance, not only avoided the Turke's violence, but having drawn his Faulchion,
pierced the Turke so under the Culets throrow backe and body, that although he alighted from
his horse, he stood not long ere he lost his head, as the rest had done."

There is nothing better than this in all the tales of chivalry, and John Smith's depreciation
of his inability to equal Caesar in describing his own exploits, in his dedicatory letter to
the Duchess of Richmond, must be taken as an excess of modesty. We are prepared to hear that
these beheadings gave such encouragement to the whole army that six thousand soldiers, with
three led horses, each preceded by a soldier bearing a Turk's head on a lance, turned out as
a guard to Smith and conducted him to the pavilion of the general, to whom he presented his
trophies. General Moyses (occasionally Smith calls him Moses) took him in his arms and embraced
him with much respect, and gave him a fair horse, richly furnished, a scimeter, and a belt
worth three hundred ducats. And his colonel advanced him to the position of sergeant-major
of his regiment. If any detail was wanting to round out and reward this knightly performance
in strict accord with the old romances, it was supplied by the subsequent handsome conduct
of Prince Sigismund.

When the Christians had mounted their guns and made a couple of breaches in the walls of Regall,
General Moyses ordered an attack one dark night "by the light that proceeded from the murdering
muskets and peace-making cannon." The enemy were thus awaited, "whilst their slothful governor
lay in a castle on top of a high mountain, and like a valiant prince asketh what's the matter,
when horrour and death stood amazed at each other, to see who should prevail to make him victorious."
These descriptions show that Smith could handle the pen as well as the battleaxe, and distinguish
him from the more vulgar fighters of his time. The assault succeeded, but at great cost of
life. The Turks sent a flag of truce and desired a "composition," but the earl, remembering
the death of his father, continued to batter the town and when he took it put all the men in
arms to the sword, and then set their heads upon stakes along the walls, the Turks having ornamented
the walls with Christian heads when they captured the fortress. Although the town afforded
much pillage, the loss of so many troops so mixed the sour with the sweet that General Moyses
could only allay his grief by sacking three other towns, Veratis, Solmos, and Kapronka. Taking
from these a couple of thousand prisoners, mostly women and children, Earl Moyses marched north
to Weisenberg (Alba Julia), and camped near the palace of Prince Sigismund.

When Sigismund Battori came out to view his army he was made acquainted with the signal services
of Smith at "Olumpagh, Stowell-Weisenberg, and Regall," and rewarded him by conferring upon
him, according to the law of--arms, a shield of arms with "three Turks' heads." This was granted
by a letter-patent, in Latin, which is dated at "Lipswick, in Misenland, December 9, 1603"
It recites that Smith was taken captive by the Turks in Wallachia November 18, 1602; that he
escaped and rejoined his fellow-soldiers. This patent, therefore, was not given at Alba Julia,
nor until Prince Sigismund had finally left his country, and when the Emperor was, in fact,
the Prince of Transylvania. Sigismund styles himself, by the grace of God, Duke of Transylvania,
etc. Appended to this patent, as published in Smith's "True Travels," is a certificate by William
Segar, knight of the garter and principal king of arms of England, that he had seen this patent
and had recorded a copy of it in the office of the Herald of Armes. This certificate is dated
August 19, 1625, the year after the publication of the General Historie.

Smith says that Prince Sigismund also gave him his picture in gold, and granted him an annual
pension of three hundred ducats. This promise of a pension was perhaps the most unsubstantial
portion of his reward, for Sigismund himself became a pensioner shortly after the events last
narrated.

The last mention of Sigismund by Smith is after his escape from captivity in Tartaria, when
this mirror of virtues had abdicated. Smith visited him at "Lipswicke in Misenland," and the
Prince "gave him his Passe, intimating the service he had done, and the honors he had received,
with fifteen hundred ducats of gold to repair his losses." The "Passe" was doubtless the "Patent"
before introduced, and we hear no word of the annual pension.

Affairs in Transylvania did not mend even after the capture of Regall, and of the three Turks'
heads, and the destruction of so many villages. This fruitful and strong country was the prey
of faction, and became little better than a desert under the ravages of the contending armies.
The Emperor Rudolph at last determined to conquer the country for himself, and sent Busca again
with a large army. Sigismund finding himself poorly supported, treated again with the Emperor
and agreed to retire to Silicia on a pension. But the Earl Moyses, seeing no prospect of regaining
his patrimony, and determining not to be under subjection to the Germans, led his troops against
Busca, was defeated, and fled to join the Turks. Upon this desertion the Prince delivered up
all he had to Busca and retired to Prague. Smith himself continued with the imperial party,
in the regiment of Earl Meldritch. About this time the Sultan sent one Jeremy to be vaivode
of Wallachia, whose tyranny caused the people to rise against him, and he fled into Moldavia.
Busca proclaimed Lord Rodoll vaivode in his stead. But Jeremy assembled an army of forty thousand
Turks, Tartars, and Moldavians, and retired into Wallachia. Smith took active part in Rodoll's
campaign to recover Wallachia, and narrates the savage war that ensued. When the armies were
encamped near each other at Raza and Argish, Rodoll cut off the heads of parties he captured
going to the Turkish camp, and threw them into the enemy's trenches. Jeremy retorted by skinning
alive the Christian parties he captured, hung their skins upon poles, and their carcasses and
heads on stakes by them. In the first battle Rodoll was successful and established himself
in Wallachia, but Jeremy rallied and began ravaging the country. Earl Meldritch was sent against
him, but the Turks' force was much superior, and the Christians were caught in a trap. In order
to reach Rodoll, who was at Rottenton, Meldritch with his small army was obliged to cut his
way through the solid body of the enemy. A device of Smith's assisted him. He covered two or
three hundred trunks--probably small branches of trees--with wild-fire. These fixed upon the
heads of lances and set on fire when the troops charged in the night, so terrified the horses
of the Turks that they fled in dismay. Meldritch was for a moment victorious, but when within
three leagues of Rottenton he was overpowered by forty thousand Turks, and the last desperate
fight followed, in which nearly all the friends of the Prince were slain, and Smith himself
was left for dead on the field.

On this bloody field over thirty thousand lay headless, armless, legless, all cut and mangled,
who gave knowledge to the world how dear the Turk paid for his conquest of Transylvania and
Wallachia--a conquest that might have been averted if the three Christian armies had been joined
against the "cruel devouring Turk." Among the slain were many Englishmen, adventurers like
the valiant Captain whom Smith names, men who "left there their bodies in testimony of their
minds." And there, "Smith among the slaughtered dead bodies, and many a gasping soule with
toils and wounds lay groaning among the rest, till being found by the Pillagers he was able
to live, and perceiving by his armor and habit, his ransome might be better than his death,
they led him prisoner with many others." The captives were taken to Axopolis and all sold as
slaves. Smith was bought by Bashaw Bogall, who forwarded him by way of Adrianople to Constantinople,
to be a slave to his mistress. So chained by the necks in gangs of twenty they marched to the
city of Constantine, where Smith was delivered over to the mistress of the Bashaw, the young
Charatza Tragabigzanda.

III. CAPTIVITY AND WANDERING

Our hero never stirs without encountering a romantic adventure. Noble ladies nearly always
take pity on good-looking captains, and Smith was far from ill-favored. The charming Charatza
delighted to talk with her slave, for she could speak Italian, and would feign herself too
sick to go to the bath, or to accompany the other women when they went to weep over the graves,
as their custom is once a week, in order to stay at home to hear from Smith how it was that
Bogall took him prisoner, as the Bashaw had written her, and whether Smith was a Bohemian lord
conquered by the Bashaw's own hand, whose ransom could adorn her with the glory of her lover's
conquests. Great must have been her disgust with Bogall when she heard that he had not captured
this handsome prisoner, but had bought him in the slave-market at Axopolis. Her compassion
for her slave increased, and the hero thought he saw in her eyes a tender interest. But she
had no use for such a slave, and fearing her mother would sell him, she sent him to her brother,
the Tymor Bashaw of Nalbrits in the country of Cambria, a province of Tartaria (wherever that
may be). If all had gone on as Smith believed the kind lady intended, he might have been a
great Bashaw and a mighty man in the Ottoman Empire, and we might never have heard of Pocahontas.
In sending him to her brother, it was her intention, for she told him so, that he should only
sojourn in Nalbrits long enough to learn the language, and what it was to be a Turk, till time
made her master of herself. Smith himself does not dissent from this plan to metamorphose him
into a Turk and the husband of the beautiful Charatza Tragabigzanda. He had no doubt that he
was commended to the kindest treatment by her brother; but Tymor "diverted all this to the
worst of cruelty." Within an hour of his arrival, he was stripped naked, his head and face
shaved as smooth as his hand, a ring of iron, with a long stake bowed like a sickle, riveted
to his neck, and he was scantily clad in goat's skin. There were many other slaves, but Smith
being the last, was treated like a dog, and made the slave of slaves.

The geographer is not able to follow Captain Smith to Nalbrits. Perhaps Smith himself would
have been puzzled to make a map of his own career after he left Varna and passed the Black
Sea and came through the straits of Niger into the Sea Disbacca, by some called the Lake Moetis,
and then sailed some days up the River Bruapo to Cambria, and two days more to Nalbrits, where
the Tyrnor resided.

Smith wrote his travels in London nearly thirty years after, and it is difficult to say how
much is the result of his own observation and how much he appropriated from preceding romances.
The Cambrians may have been the Cossacks, but his description of their habits and also those
of the "Crym-Tartars" belongs to the marvels of Mandeville and other wide-eyed travelers. Smith
fared very badly with the Tymor. The Tymor and his friends ate pillaw; they esteemed "samboyses"
and "musselbits" "great dainties, and yet," exclaims Smith, "but round pies, full of all sorts
of flesh they can get, chopped with variety of herbs." Their best drink was "coffa" and sherbet,
which is only honey and water. The common victual of the others was the entrails of horses
and "ulgries" (goats?) cut up and boiled in a caldron with "cuskus," a preparation made from
grain. This was served in great bowls set in the ground, and when the other prisoners had raked
it thoroughly with their foul fists the remainder was given to the Christians. The same dish
of entrails used to be served not many years ago in Upper Egypt as a royal dish to entertain
a distinguished guest.

It might entertain but it would too long detain us to repeat Smith's information, probably
all secondhand, about this barbarous region. We must confine ourselves to the fortunes of our
hero. All his hope of deliverance from thraldom was in the love of Tragabigzanda, whom he firmly
believed was ignorant of his bad usage. But she made no sign. Providence at length opened a
way for his escape. He was employed in thrashing in a field more than a league from the Tymor's
home. The Bashaw used to come to visit his slave there, and beat, spurn, and revile him. One
day Smith, unable to control himself under these insults, rushed upon the Tymor, and beat out
his brains with a thrashing bat--"for they had no flails," he explains--put on the dead man's
clothes, hid the body in the straw, filled a knapsack with corn, mounted his horse and rode
away into the unknown desert, where he wandered many days before he found a way out. If we
may believe Smith this wilderness was more civilized in one respect than some parts of our
own land, for on all the crossings of the roads were guide-boards. After traveling sixteen
days on the road that leads to Muscova, Smith reached a Muscovite garrison on the River Don.
The governor knocked off the iron from his neck and used him so kindly that he thought himself
now risen from the dead. With his usual good fortune there was a lady to take interest in him--"the
good Lady Callamata largely supplied all his wants."

After Smith had his purse filled by Sigismund he made a thorough tour of Europe, and passed
into Spain, where being satisfied, as he says, with Europe and Asia, and understanding that
there were wars in Barbary, this restless adventurer passed on into Morocco with several comrades
on a French man-of-war. His observations on and tales about North Africa are so evidently taken
from the books of other travelers that they add little to our knowledge of his career. For
some reason he found no fighting going on worth his while. But good fortune attended his return.
He sailed in a man-of-war with Captain Merham. They made a few unimportant captures, and at
length fell in with two Spanish men-of-war, which gave Smith the sort of entertainment he most
coveted. A sort of running fight, sometimes at close quarters, and with many boardings and
repulses, lasted for a couple of days and nights, when having battered each other thoroughly
and lost many men, the pirates of both nations separated and went cruising, no doubt, for more
profitable game. Our wanderer returned to his native land, seasoned and disciplined for the
part he was to play in the New World. As Smith had traveled all over Europe and sojourned in
Morocco, besides sailing the high seas, since he visited Prince Sigismund in December, 1603,
it was probably in the year 1605 that he reached England. He had arrived at the manly age of
twenty-six years, and was ready to play a man's part in the wonderful drama of discovery and
adventure upon which the Britons were then engaged.

IV. FIRST ATTEMPTS IN VIRGINIA

John Smith has not chosen to tell us anything of his life during the interim--perhaps not more
than a year and a half--between his return from Morocco and his setting sail for Virginia.
Nor do his contemporaries throw any light upon this period of his life.

One would like to know whether he went down to Willoughby and had a reckoning with his guardians;
whether he found any relations or friends of his boyhood; whether any portion of his estate
remained of that "competent means" which he says he inherited, but which does not seem to have
been available in his career. From the time when he set out for France in his fifteenth year,
with the exception of a short sojourn in Willoughby seven or eight years after, he lived by
his wits and by the strong hand. His purse was now and then replenished by a lucky windfall,
which enabled him to extend his travels and seek more adventures. This is the impression that
his own story makes upon the reader in a narrative that is characterized by the boastfulness
and exaggeration of the times, and not fuller of the marvelous than most others of that period.

The London to which Smith returned was the London of Shakespeare. We should be thankful for
one glimpse of him in this interesting town. Did he frequent the theatre? Did he perhaps see
Shakespeare himself at the Globe? Did he loaf in the coffee-houses, and spin the fine thread
of his adventures to the idlers and gallants who resorted to them? If he dropped in at any
theatre of an afternoon he was quite likely to hear some allusion to Virginia, for the plays
of the hour were full of chaff, not always of the choicest, about the attractions of the Virgin-land,
whose gold was as plentiful as copper in England; where the prisoners were fettered in gold,
and the dripping-pans were made of it; and where--an unheard-of thing--you might become an
alderman without having been a scavenger.

Was Smith an indulger in that new medicine for all ills, tobacco? Alas! we know nothing of
his habits or his company. He was a man of piety according to his lights, and it is probable
that he may have had the then rising prejudice against theatres. After his return from Virginia
he and his exploits were the subject of many a stage play and spectacle, but whether his vanity
was more flattered by this mark of notoriety than his piety was offended we do not know. There
is certainly no sort of evidence that he engaged in the common dissipation of the town, nor
gave himself up to those pleasures which a man rescued from the hardships of captivity in Tartaria
might be expected to seek. Mr. Stith says that it was the testimony of his fellow soldiers
and adventurers that "they never knew a soldier, before him, so free from those military vices
of wine, tobacco, debts, dice, and oathes."

But of one thing we may be certain: he was seeking adventure according to his nature, and eager
for any heroic employment; and it goes without saying that he entered into the great excitement
of the day--adventure in America. Elizabeth was dead. James had just come to the throne, and
Raleigh, to whom Elizabeth had granted an extensive patent of Virginia, was in the Tower. The
attempts to make any permanent lodgment in the countries of Virginia had failed. But at the
date of Smith's advent Captain Bartholomew Gosnold had returned from a voyage undertaken in
1602 under the patronage of the Earl of Southampton, and announced that he had discovered a
direct passage westward to the new continent, all the former voyagers having gone by the way
of the West Indies. The effect of this announcement in London, accompanied as it was with Gosnold's
report of the fruitfulness of the coast of New England which he explored, was something like
that made upon New York by the discovery of gold in California in 1849. The route by the West
Indies, with its incidents of disease and delay, was now replaced by the direct course opened
by Gosnold, and the London Exchange, which has always been quick to scent any profit in trade,
shared the excitement of the distinguished soldiers and sailors who were ready to embrace any
chance of adventure that offered.

It is said that Captain Gosnold spent several years in vain, after his return, in soliciting
his friends and acquaintances to join him in settling this fertile land he had explored; and
that at length he prevailed upon Captain John Smith, Mr. Edward Maria Wingfield, the Rev. Mr.
Robert Hunt, and others, to join him. This is the first appearance of the name of Captain John
Smith in connection with Virginia. Probably his life in London had been as idle as unprofitable,
and his purse needed replenishing. Here was a way open to the most honorable, exciting, and
profitable employment. That its mere profit would have attracted him we do not believe; but
its danger, uncertainty, and chance of distinction would irresistibly appeal to him. The distinct
object of the projectors was to establish a colony in Virginia. This proved too great an undertaking
for private persons. After many vain projects the scheme was commended to several of the nobility,
gentry, and merchants, who came into it heartily, and the memorable expedition of 1606 was
organized.

The patent under which this colonization was undertaken was obtained from King James by the
solicitation of Richard Hakluyt and others. Smith's name does not appear in it, nor does that
of Gosnold nor of Captain Newport. Richard Hakluyt, then clerk prebendary of Westminster, had
from the first taken great interest in the project. He was chaplain of the English colony in
Paris when Sir Francis Drake was fitting out his expedition to America, and was eager to further
it. By his diligent study he became the best English geographer of his time; he was the historiographer
of the East India Company, and the best informed man in England concerning the races, climates,
and productions of all parts of the globe. It was at Hakluyt's suggestion that two vessels
were sent out from Plymouth in 1603 to verify Gosnold's report of his new short route. A further
verification of the feasibility of this route was made by Captain George Weymouth, who was
sent out in 1605 by the Earl of Southampton.

The letters-patent of King James, dated April 10, 1606, licensed the planting of two colonies
in the territories of America commonly called Virginia. The corporators named in the first
colony were Sir Thos. Gates, Sir George Somers, knights, and Richard Hakluyt and Edward Maria
Wingfield, adventurers, of the city of London. They were permitted to settle anywhere in territory
between the 34th and 41st degrees of latitude.

The corporators named in the second colony were Thomas Hankam, Raleigh Gilbert, William Parker,
and George Popham, representing Bristol, Exeter, and Plymouth, and the west counties, who were
authorized to make a settlement anywhere between the 38th and 48th degrees of latitude.

The--letters commended and generously accepted this noble work of colonization, "which may,
by the Providence of Almighty God, hereafter tend to the glory of his Divine Majesty, in propagating
of Christian religion to such people as yet live in darkness and miserable ignorance of all
true knowledge and worship of God, and may in time bring the infidels and savages living in
those parts to human civility and to a settled and quiet government." The conversion of the
Indians was as prominent an object in all these early adventures, English or Spanish, as the
relief of the Christians has been in all the Russian campaigns against the Turks in our day.

Before following the fortunes of this Virginia colony of 1606, to which John Smith was attached,
it is necessary to glance briefly at the previous attempt to make settlements in this portion
of America.

Although the English had a claim upon America, based upon the discovery of Newfoundland and
of the coast of the continent from the 38th to the 68th north parallel by Sebastian Cabot in
1497, they took no further advantage of it than to send out a few fishing vessels, until Sir
Humphrey Gilbert, a noted and skillful seaman, took out letters-patent for discovery, bearing
date the 11th of January, 1578. Gilbert was the half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh and thirteen
years his senior. The brothers were associated in the enterprise of 1579, which had for its
main object the possession of Newfoundland. It is commonly said, and in this the biographical
dictionaries follow one another, that Raleigh accompanied his brother on this voyage of 1579
and went with him to Newfoundland. The fact is that Gilbert did not reach Newfoundland on that
voyage, and it is open to doubt if Raleigh started with him. In April, 1579, when Gilbert took
active steps under the charter of 1578, diplomatic difficulties arose, growing out of Elizabeth's
policy with the Spaniards, and when Gilbert's ships were ready to sail he was stopped by an
order from the council. Little is known of this unsuccessful attempt of Gilbert's. He did,
after many delays, put to sea, and one of his contemporaries, John Hooker, the antiquarian,
says that Raleigh was one of the assured friends that accompanied him. But he was shortly after
driven back, probably from an encounter with the Spaniards, and returned with the loss of a
tall ship.

Raleigh had no sooner made good his footing at the court of Elizabeth than he joined Sir Humphrey
in a new adventure. But the Queen peremptorily retained Raleigh at court, to prevent his incurring
the risks of any "dangerous sea-fights." To prevent Gilbert from embarking on this new voyage
seems to have been the device of the council rather than the Queen, for she assured Gilbert
of her good wishes, and desired him, on his departure, to give his picture to Raleigh for her,
and she contributed to the large sums raised to meet expenses "an anchor guarded by a lady,"
which the sailor was to wear at his breast. Raleigh risked L 2,000 in the venture, and equipped
a ship which bore his name, but which had ill luck. An infectious fever broke out among the
crew, and the "Ark Raleigh" returned to Plymouth. Sir Humphrey wrote to his brother admiral,
Sir George Peckham, indignantly of this desertion, the reason for which he did not know, and
then proceeded on his voyage with his four remaining ships. This was on the 11th of January,
1583. The expedition was so far successful that Gilbert took formal possession of Newfoundland
for the Queen. But a fatality attended his further explorations: the gallant admiral went down
at sea in a storm off our coast, with his crew, heroic and full of Christian faith to the last,
uttering, it is reported, this courageous consolation to his comrades at the last moment: "Be
of good heart, my friends. We are as near to heaven by sea as by land."

In September, 1583, a surviving ship brought news of the disaster to Falmouth. Raleigh was
not discouraged. Within six months of this loss he had on foot another enterprise. His brother's
patent had expired. On the 25th of March, 1584, he obtained from Elizabeth a new charter with
larger powers, incorporating himself, Adrian Gilbert, brother of Sir Humphrey, and John Davys,
under the title of "The College of the Fellowship for the Discovery of the Northwest Passage."
But Raleigh's object was colonization. Within a few days after his charter was issued he despatched
two captains, Philip Amadas and Arthur Barlow, who in July of that year took possession of
the island of Roanoke.

The name of Sir Walter Raleigh is intimately associated with Carolina and Virginia, and it
is the popular impression that he personally assisted in the discovery of the one and the settlement
of the other. But there is no more foundation for the belief that he ever visited the territory
of Virginia, of which he was styled governor, than that he accompanied Sir Humphrey Gilbert
to Newfoundland. An allusion by William Strachey, in his "Historie of Travaile into Virginia,"
hastily read, may have misled some writers. He speaks of an expedition southward, "to some
parts of Chawonock and the Mangoangs, to search them there left by Sir Walter Raleigh." But
his further sketch of the various prior expeditions shows that he meant to speak of settlers
left by Sir Ralph Lane and other agents of Raleigh in colonization. Sir Walter Raleigh never
saw any portion of the coast of the United States.

In 1592 he planned an attack upon the Spanish possessions of Panama, but his plans were frustrated.
His only personal expedition to the New World was that to Guana in 1595.

The expedition of Captain Amadas and Captain Barlow is described by Captain Smith in his compilation
called the "General Historie," and by Mr. Strachey. They set sail April 27, 1584, from the
Thames. On the 2d of July they fell with the coast of Florida in shoal water, "where they felt
a most delicate sweet smell," but saw no land. Presently land appeared, which they took to
be the continent, and coasted along to the northward a hundred and thirty miles before finding
a harbor. Entering the first opening, they landed on what proved to be the Island of Roanoke.
The landing-place was sandy and low, but so productive of grapes or vines overrunning everything,
that the very surge of the sea sometimes overflowed them. The tallest and reddest cedars in
the world grew there, with pines, cypresses, and other trees, and in the woods plenty of deer,
conies, and fowls in incredible abundance.

After a few days the natives came off in boats to visit them, proper people and civil in their
behavior, bringing with them the King's brother, Granganameo (Quangimino, says Strachey). The
name of the King was Winginia, and of the country Wingandacoa. The name of this King might
have suggested that of Virginia as the title of the new possession, but for the superior claim
of the Virgin Queen. Granganameo was a friendly savage who liked to trade. The first thing
he took a fancy was a pewter dish, and he made a hole through it and hung it about his neck
for a breastplate. The liberal Christians sold it to him for the low price of twenty deer-skins,
worth twenty crowns, and they also let him have a copper kettle for fifty skins. They drove
a lively traffic with the savages for much of such "truck," and the chief came on board and
ate and drank merrily with the strangers. His wife and children, short of stature but well-formed
and bashful, also paid them a visit. She wore a long coat of leather, with a piece of leather
about her loins, around her forehead a band of white coral, and from her ears bracelets of
pearls of the bigness of great peas hung down to her middle. The other women wore pendants
of copper, as did the children, five or six in an ear. The boats of these savages were hollowed
trunks of trees. Nothing could exceed the kindness and trustfulness the Indians exhibited towards
their visitors. They kept them supplied with game and fruits, and when a party made an expedition
inland to the residence of Granganameo, his wife (her husband being absent) came running to
the river to welcome them; took them to her house and set them before a great fire; took off
their clothes and washed them; removed the stockings of some and washed their feet in warm
water; set plenty of victual, venison and fish and fruits, before them, and took pains to see
all things well ordered for their comfort. "More love they could not express to entertain us."
It is noted that these savages drank wine while the grape lasted. The visitors returned all
this kindness with suspicion.

They insisted upon retiring to their boats at night instead of lodging in the house, and the
good woman, much grieved at their jealousy, sent down to them their half-cooked supper, pots
and all, and mats to cover them from the rain in the night, and caused several of her men and
thirty women to sit all night on the shore over against them. "A more kind, loving people cannot
be," say the voyagers.

In September the expedition returned to England, taking specimens of the wealth of the country,
and some of the pearls as big as peas, and two natives, Wanchese and Manteo.

The enticing reports brought back of the fertility of this land, and the amiability of its
pearl-decked inhabitants, determined Raleigh at once to establish a colony there, in the hope
of the ultimate salvation of the "poor seduced infidell" who wore the pearls. A fleet of seven
vessels, with one hundred householders, and many things necessary to begin a new state, departed
from Plymouth in April, 1585. Sir Richard Grenville had command of the expedition, and Mr.
Ralph Lane was made governor of the colony, with Philip Amadas for his deputy. Among the distinguished
men who accompanied them were Thomas Hariot, the mathematician, and Thomas Cavendish, the naval
discoverer. The expedition encountered as many fatalities as those that befell Sir Humphrey
Gilbert; and Sir Richard was destined also to an early and memorable death. But the new colony
suffered more from its own imprudence and want of harmony than from natural causes.

In August, Grenville left Ralph Lane in charge of the colony and returned to England, capturing
a Spanish ship on the way. The colonists pushed discoveries in various directions, but soon
found themselves involved in quarrels with the Indians, whose conduct was less friendly than
formerly, a change partly due to the greed of the whites. In June, when Lane was in fear of
a conspiracy which he had discovered against the life of the colony, and it was short of supplies,
Sir Francis Drake appeared off Roanoke, returning homeward with his fleet from the sacking
of St. Domingo, Carthagena, and St. Augustine. Lane, without waiting for succor from England,
persuaded Drake to take him and all the colony back home. Meantime Raleigh, knowing that the
colony would probably need aid, was preparing a fleet of three well appointed ships to accompany
Sir Richard Grenville, and an "advice ship," plentifully freighted, to send in advance to give
intelligence of his coming. Great was Grenville's chagrin, when he reached Hatorask, to find
that the advice boat had arrived, and finding no colony, had departed again for England. However,
he established fifteen men ("fifty," says the "General Historie") on the island, provisioned
for two years, and then returned home.

[Sir Richard Grenville in 1591 was vice-admiral of a fleet, under command of Lord Thomas Howard,
at the Azores, sent against a Spanish Plate-fleet. Six English vessels were suddenly opposed
by a Spanish convoy of 53 ships of war. Left behind his comrades, in embarking from an island,
opposed by five galleons, he maintained a terrible fight for fifteen hours, his vessel all
cut to pieces, and his men nearly all slain. If the governor had possessed Smith's pluck, he
would have held on till the arrival of Grenville.

Lane did not distinguish himself in the conduct of this governorship, but he nevertheless gained
immortality. For he is credited with first bringing into England that valuable medicinal weeds
called tobacco, which Sir Walter Raleigh made fashionable, not in its capacity to drive "rheums"
out of the body, but as a soother, when burned in the bowl of a pipe and drawn through the
stem in smoke, of the melancholy spirit.

The honor of introducing tobacco at this date is so large that it has been shared by three
persons--Sir Francis Drake, who brought Mr. Lane home; Mr. Lane, who carried the precious result
of his sojourn in America; and Sir Walter Raleigh, who commended it to the use of the ladies
of Queen Elizabeth's court.

But this was by no means its first appearance in Europe. It was already known in Spain, in
France, and in Italy, and no doubt had begun to make its way in the Orient. In the early part
of the century the Spaniards had discovered its virtues. It is stated by John Neander, in his
"Tobaco Logia," published in Leyden in 1626, that Tobaco took its name from a province in Yucatan,
conquered by Fernando Cortez in 1519. The name Nicotiana he derives from D. Johanne Nicotino
Nemansensi, of the council of Francis II., who first introduced the plant into France. At the
date of this volume (1626) tobacco was in general use all over Europe and in the East. Pictures
are given of the Persian water pipes, and descriptions of the mode of preparing it for use.
There are reports and traditions of a very ancient use of tobacco in Persia and in China, as
well as in India, but we are convinced that the substance supposed to be tobacco, and to be
referred to as such by many writers, and described as "intoxicating," was really India hemp,
or some plant very different from the tobacco of the New World. At any rate there is evidence
that in the Turkish Empire as late as 1616 tobacco was still somewhat a novelty, and the smoking
of it was regarded as vile, and a habit only of the low. The late Hekekian Bey, foreign minister
of old Mahomet Ali, possessed an ancient Turkish MS which related an occurrence at Smyrna about
the year 1610, namely, the punishment of some sailors for the use of tobacco, which showed
that it was a novelty and accounted a low vice at that time. The testimony of the trustworthy
George Sandys, an English traveler into Turkey, Egypt, and Syria in 1610 (afterwards, 1621,
treasurer of the colony in Virginia), is to the same effect as given in his "Relation," published
in London in 1621. In his minute description of the people and manners of Constantinople, after
speaking of opium, which makes the Turks "giddy-headed" and "turbulent dreamers," he says:
"But perhaps for the self-same cause they delight in Tobacco: which they take through reedes
that have joyned with them great heads of wood to containe it, I doubt not but lately taught
them as brought them by the English; and were it not sometimes lookt into (for Morat Bassa
[Murad III.?] not long since commanded a pipe to be thrust through the nose of a Turke, and
to be led in derision through the Citie), no question but it would prove a principal commodity.
Nevertheless they will take it in corners; and are so ignorant therein, that that which in
England is not saleable, doth passe here among them for most excellent."

Mr. Stith ("History of Virginia," 1746) gives Raleigh credit for the introduction of the pipe
into good society, but he cautiously says, "We are not informed whether the queen made use
of it herself: but it is certain she gave great countenance to it as a vegetable of singular
strength and power, which might therefore prove of benefit to mankind, and advantage to the
nation." Mr. Thomas Hariot, in his observations on the colony at Roanoke, says that the natives
esteemed their tobacco, of which plenty was found, their "chief physicke."

It should be noted, as against the claim of Lane, that Stowe in his "Annales" (1615) says:
"Tobacco was first brought and made known in England by Sir John Hawkins, about the year 1565,
but not used by Englishmen in many years after, though at this time commonly used by most men
and many women." In a side-note to the edition of 1631 we read: "Sir Walter Raleigh was the
first that brought tobacco in use, when all men wondered what it meant." It was first commended
for its medicinal virtues. Harrison's "Chronologie," under date of 1573, says: "In these daies
the taking in of the smoke of the Indian herbe called 'Tabaco' by an instrument formed like
a little ladell, whereby it passeth from the mouth into the hed and stomach, is gretlie taken-up
and used in England, against Rewmes and some other diseases ingendred in the longes and inward
partes, and not without effect." But Barnaby Rich, in "The Honestie of this Age," 1614, disagrees
with Harrison about its benefit: "They say it is good for a cold, for a pose, for rewmes, for
aches, for dropsies, and for all manner of diseases proceeding of moyst humours; but I cannot
see but that those that do take it fastest are as much (or more) subject to all these infirmities
(yea, and to the poxe itself) as those that have nothing at all to do with it." He learns that
7,000 shops in London live by the trade of tobacco-selling, and calculates that there is paid
for it L 399,375 a year, "all spent in smoake." Every base groom must have his pipe with his
pot of ale; it "is vendible in every taverne, inne, and ale-house; and as for apothecaries
shops, grosers shops, chandlers shops, they are (almost) never without company that, from morning
till night, are still taking of tobacco." Numbers of houses and shops had no other trade to
live by. The wrath of King James was probably never cooled against tobacco, but the expression
of it was somewhat tempered when he perceived what a source of revenue it became.

The savages of North America gave early evidence of the possession of imaginative minds, of
rare power of invention, and of an amiable desire to make satisfactory replies to the inquiries
of their visitors. They generally told their questioners what they wanted to know, if they
could ascertain what sort of information would please them. If they had known the taste of
the sixteenth century for the marvelous they could not have responded more fitly to suit it.
They filled Mr. Lane and Mr. Hariot full of tales of a wonderful copper mine on the River Maratock
(Roanoke), where the metal was dipped out of the stream in great bowls. The colonists had great
hopes of this river, which Mr. Hariot thought flowed out of the Gulf of Mexico, or very near
the South Sea. The Indians also conveyed to the mind of this sagacious observer the notion
that they had a very respectably developed religion; that they believed in one chief god who
existed from all eternity, and who made many gods of less degree; that for mankind a woman
was first created, who by one of the gods brought forth children; that they believed in the
immortality of the soul, and that for good works a soul will be conveyed to bliss in the tabernacles
of the gods, and for bad deeds to pokogusso, a great pit in the furthest part of the world,
where the sun sets, and where they burn continually. The Indians knew this because two men
lately dead had revived and come back to tell them of the other world. These stories, and many
others of like kind, the Indians told of themselves, and they further pleased Mr. Hariot by
kissing his Bible and rubbing it all over their bodies, notwithstanding he told them there
was no virtue in the material book itself, only in its doctrines. We must do Mr. Hariot the
justice to say, however, that he had some little suspicion of the "subtiltie" of the weroances
(chiefs) and the priests.

Raleigh was not easily discouraged; he was determined to plant his colony, and to send relief
to the handful of men that Grenville had left on Roanoke Island. In May, 1587, he sent out
three ships and a hundred and fifty householders, under command of Mr. John White, who was
appointed Governor of the colony, with twelve assistants as a Council, who were incorporated
under the name of "The Governor and Assistants of the City of Ralegh in Virginia," with instructions
to change their settlement to Chesapeake Bay. The expedition found there no one of the colony
(whether it was fifty or fifteen the writers disagree), nothing but the bones of one man where
the plantation had been; the houses were unhurt, but overgrown with weeds, and the fort was
defaced. Captain Stafford, with twenty men, went to Croatan to seek the lost colonists. He
heard that the fifty had been set upon by three hundred Indians, and, after a sharp skirmish
and the loss of one man, had taken boats and gone to a small island near Hatorask, and afterwards
had departed no one knew whither.

Mr. White sent a band to take revenge upon the Indians who were suspected of their murder through
treachery, which was guided by Mateo, the friendly Indian, who had returned with the expedition
from England. By a mistake they attacked a friendly tribe. In August of this year Mateo was
Christianized, and baptized under the title of Lord of Roanoke and Dassomonpeake, as a reward
for his fidelity. The same month Elinor, the daughter of the Govemor, the wife of Ananias Dare,
gave birth to a daughter, the first white child born in this part of the continent, who was
named Virginia.

Before long a dispute arose between the Governor and his Council as to the proper person to
return to England for supplies. White himself was finally prevailed upon to go, and he departed,
leaving about a hundred settlers on one of the islands of Hatorask to form a plantation.

The Spanish invasion and the Armada distracted the attention of Europe about this time, and
the hope of plunder from Spanish vessels was more attractive than the colonization of America.
It was not until 1590 that Raleigh was able to despatch vessels to the relief of the Hatorask
colony, and then it was too late. White did, indeed, start out from Biddeford in April, 1588,
with two vessels, but the temptation to chase prizes was too strong for him, and he went on
a cruise of his own, and left the colony to its destruction.

In March, 1589-90, Mr. White was again sent out, with three ships, from Plymouth, and reached
the coast in August. Sailing by Croatan they went to Hatorask, where they descried a smoke
in the place they had left the colony in 1587. Going ashore next day, they found no man, nor
sign that any had been there lately. Preparing to go to Roanoke next day, a boat was upset
and Captain Spicer and six of the crew were drowned. This accident so discouraged the sailors
that they could hardly be persuaded to enter on the search for the colony. At last two boats,
with nineteen men, set out for Hatorask, and landed at that part of Roanoke where the colony
had been left. When White left the colony three years before, the men had talked of going fifty
miles into the mainland, and had agreed to leave some sign of their departure. The searchers
found not a man of the colony; their houses were taken down, and a strong palisade had been
built. All about were relics of goods that had been buried and dug up again and scattered,
and on a post was carved the name "CROATAN." This signal, which was accompanied by no sign
of distress, gave White hope that he should find his comrades at Croatan. But one mischance
or another happening, his provisions being short, the expedition decided to run down to the
West Indies and "refresh" (chiefly with a little Spanish plunder), and return in the spring
and seek their countrymen; but instead they sailed for England and never went to Croatan. The
men of the abandoned colonies were never again heard of. Years after, in 1602, Raleigh bought
a bark and sent it, under the charge of Samuel Mace, a mariner who had been twice to Virginia,
to go in search of the survivors of White's colony. Mace spent a month lounging about the Hatorask
coast and trading with the natives, but did not land on Croatan, or at any place where the
lost colony might be expected to be found; but having taken on board some sassafras, which
at that time brought a good price in England, and some other barks which were supposed to be
valuable, he basely shirked the errand on which he was hired to go, and took himself and his
spicy woods home.

The "Lost Colony" of White is one of the romances of the New World. Governor White no doubt
had the feelings of a parent, but he did not allow them to interfere with his more public duties
to go in search of Spanish prizes. If the lost colony had gone to Croatan, it was probable
that Ananias Dare and his wife, the Governor's daughter, and the little Virginia Dare, were
with them. But White, as we have seen, had such confidence in Providence that he left his dear
relatives to its care, and made no attempt to visit Croatan.

Stith says that Raleigh sent five several times to search for the lost, but the searchers returned
with only idle reports and frivolous allegations. Tradition, however, has been busy with the
fate of these deserted colonists. One of the unsupported conjectures is that the colonists
amalgamated with the tribe of Hatteras Indians, and Indian tradition and the physical characteristics
of the tribe are said to confirm this idea. But the sporadic birth of children with white skins
(albinos) among black or copper-colored races that have had no intercourse with white people,
and the occurrence of light hair and blue eyes among the native races of America and of New
Guinea, are facts so well attested that no theory of amalgamation can be sustained by such
rare physical manifestations. According to Captain John Smith, who wrote of Captain Newport's
explorations in 1608, there were no tidings of the waifs, for, says Smith, Newport returned
"without a lump of gold, a certainty of the South Sea, or one of the lost company sent out
by Sir Walter Raleigh."

In his voyage of discovery up the Chickahominy, Smith seem; to have inquired about this lost
colony of King Paspahegh, for he says, "what he knew of the dominions he spared not to acquaint
me with, as of certaine men cloathed at a place called Ocanahonan, cloathcd like me."

[Among these Hatteras Indians Captain Amadas, in 1584, saw children with chestnut-colored hair.]

We come somewhat nearer to this matter in the "Historie of Travaile into Virginia Britannia,"
published from the manuscript by the Hakluyt Society in 1849, in which it is intimated that
seven of these deserted colonists were afterwards rescued. Strachey is a first-rate authority
for what he saw. He arrived in Virginia in 1610 and remained there two years, as secretary
of the colony, and was a man of importance. His "Historie" was probably written between 1612
and 1616. In the first portion of it, which is descriptive of the territory of Virginia, is
this important passage: "At Peccarecamek and Ochanahoen, by the relation of Machumps, the people
have houses built with stone walls, and one story above another, so taught them by those English
who escaped the slaughter of Roanoke. At what time this our colony, under the conduct of Captain
Newport, landed within the Chesapeake Bay, where the people breed up tame turkies about their
houses, and take apes in the mountains, and where, at Ritanoe, the Weroance Eyanaco, preserved
seven of the English alive--four men, two boys, and one young maid (who escaped [that is from
Roanoke] and fled up the river of Chanoke), to beat his copper, of which he hath certain mines
at the said Ritanoe, as also at Pamawauk are said to be store of salt stones."

This, it will be observed, is on the testimony of Machumps. This pleasing story is not mentioned
in Captain Newport's "Discoveries" (May, 1607). Machumps, who was the brother of Winganuske,
one of the many wives of Powhatan, had been in England. He was evidently a lively Indian. Strachey
had heard him repeat the "Indian grace," a sort of incantation before meat, at the table of
Sir Thomas Dale. If he did not differ from his red brothers he had a powerful imagination,
and was ready to please the whites with any sort of a marvelous tale. Newport himself does
not appear to have seen any of the "apes taken in the mountains." If this story is to be accepted
as true we have to think of Virginia Dare as growing up to be a woman of twenty years, perhaps
as other white maidens have been, Indianized and the wife of a native. But the story rests
only upon a romancing Indian. It is possible that Strachey knew more of the matter than he
relates, for in his history he speaks again of those betrayed people, "of whose end you shall
hereafter read in this decade." But the possessed information is lost, for it is not found
in the remainder of this "decade" of his writing, which is imperfect. Another reference in
Strachey is more obscure than the first. He is speaking of the merciful intention of King James
towards the Virginia savages, and that he does not intend to root out the natives as the Spaniards
did in Hispaniola, but by degrees to change their barbarous nature, and inform them of the
true God and the way to Salvation, and that his Majesty will even spare Powhatan himself. But,
he says, it is the intention to make "the common people likewise to understand, how that his
Majesty has been acquainted that the men, women, and children of the first plantation of Roanoke
were by practice of Powhatan (he himself persuaded thereunto by his priests) miserably slaughtered,
without any offense given him either by the first planted (who twenty and odd years had peaceably
lived intermixed with those savages, and were out of his territory) or by those who are now
come to inhabit some parts of his distant lands," etc.

Strachey of course means the second plantation and not the first, which, according to the weight
of authority, consisted of only fifteen men and no women.

In George Percy's Discourse concerning Captain Newport's exploration of the River James in
1607 (printed in Purchas's "Pilgrims") is this sentence: "At Port Cotage, in our voyage up
the river, we saw a savage boy, about the age of ten years, which had a head of hair of a perfect
yellow, and reasonably white skin, which is a miracle amongst all savages." Mr. Neill, in his
"History of the Virginia Company," says that this boy "was no doubt the offspring of the colonists
left at Roanoke by White, of whom four men, two boys, and one young maid had been preserved
from slaughter by an Indian Chief." Under the circumstances, "no doubt" is a very strong expression
for a historian to use.

This belief in the sometime survival of the Roanoke colonists, and their amalgamation with
the Indians, lingered long in colonial gossip. Lawson, in his History, published in London
in 1718, mentions a tradition among the Hatteras Indians, "that several of their ancestors
were white people and could talk from a book; the truth of which is confirmed by gray eyes
being among these Indians and no others."

But the myth of Virginia Dare stands no chance beside that of Pocahontas.

V. FIRST PLANTING OF THE COLONY

The way was now prepared for the advent of Captain John Smith in Virginia. It is true that
we cannot give him his own title of its discoverer, but the plantation had been practically
abandoned, all the colonies had ended in disaster, all the governors and captains had lacked
the gift of perseverance or had been early drawn into other adventures, wholly disposed, in
the language of Captain John White, "to seek after purchase and spoils," and but for the energy
and persistence of Captain Smith the expedition of 1606 might have had no better fate. It needed
a man of tenacious will to hold a colony together in one spot long enough to give it root.
Captain Smith was that man, and if we find him glorying in his exploits, and repeating upon
single big Indians the personal prowess that distinguished him in Transylvania and in the mythical
Nalbrits, we have only to transfer our sympathy from the Turks to the Sasquesahanocks if the
sense of his heroism becomes oppressive.

Upon the return of Samuel Mace, mariner, who was sent out in 1602 to search for White's lost
colony, all Raleigh's interest in the Virginia colony had, by his attainder, escheated to the
crown. But he never gave up his faith in Virginia: neither the failure of nine several expeditions
nor twelve years imprisonment shook it. On the eve of his fall he had written, "I shall yet
live to see it an English nation:" and he lived to see his prediction come true.

The first or Virginian colony, chartered with the Plymouth colony in April, 1606, was at last
organized by the appointment of Sir Thomas Smith, the 'Chief of Raleigh's assignees, a wealthy
London merchant, who had been ambassador to Persia, and was then, or shortly after, governor
of the East India Company, treasurer and president of the meetings of the council in London;
and by the assignment of the transportation of the colony to Captain Christopher Newport, a
mariner of experience in voyages to the West Indies and in plundering the Spaniards, who had
the power to appoint different captains and mariners, and the sole charge of the voyage. No
local councilors were named for Virginia, but to Captain Newport, Captain Bartholomew Gosnold,
and Captain John Ratcliffe were delivered sealed instructions, to be opened within twenty-four
hours after their arrival in Virginia, wherein would be found the names of the persons designated
for the Council.

This colony, which was accompanied by the prayers and hopes of London, left the Thames December
19, 1606, in three vessels--the Susan Constant, one hundred tons, Captain Newport, with seventy-one
persons; the God-Speed, forty tons, Captain Gosnold, with fifty-two persons; and a pinnace
of twenty tons, the Discovery, Captain Ratcliffe, with twenty persons. The Mercure Francais,
Paris, 1619, says some of the passengers were women and children, but there is no other mention
of women. Of the persons embarked, one hundred and five were planters, the rest crews. Among
the planters were Edward Maria Wingfield, Captain John Smith, Captain John Martin, Captain
Gabriel Archer, Captain George Kendall, Mr. Robert Hunt, preacher, and Mr. George Percie, brother
of the Earl of Northumberland, subsequently governor for a brief period, and one of the writers
from whom Purchas compiled. Most of the planters were shipped as gentlemen, but there were
four carpenters, twelve laborers, a blacksmith, a sailor, a barber, a bricklayer, a mason,
a tailor, a drummer, and a chirurgeon.

The composition of the colony shows a serious purpose of settlement, since the trades were
mostly represented, but there were too many gentlemen to make it a working colony. And, indeed,
the gentlemen, like the promoters of the enterprise in London, were probably more solicitous
of discovering a passage to the South Sea, as the way to increase riches, than of making a
state. They were instructed to explore every navigable river they might find, and to follow
the main branches, which would probably lead them in one direction to the East Indies or South
Sea, and in the other to the Northwest Passage. And they were forcibly reminded that the way
to prosper was to be of one mind, for their own and their country's good.

This last advice did not last the expedition out of sight of land. They sailed from Blackwell,
December 19, 1606, but were kept six weeks on the coast of England by contrary winds. A crew
of saints cabined in those little caravels and tossed about on that coast for six weeks would
scarcely keep in good humor. Besides, the position of the captains and leaders was not yet
defined. Factious quarrels broke out immediately, and the expedition would likely have broken
up but for the wise conduct and pious exhortations of Mr. Robert Hunt, the preacher. This faithful
man was so ill and weak that it was thought he could not recover, yet notwithstanding the stormy
weather, the factions on board, and although his home was almost in sight, only twelve miles
across the Downs, he refused to quit the ship. He was unmoved, says Smith, either by the weather
or by "the scandalous imputations (of some few little better than atheists, of the greatest
rank amongst us)." With "the water of his patience" and "his godly exhortations" he quenched
the flames of envy and dissension.

They took the old route by the West Indies. George Percy notes that on the 12th of February
they saw a blazing star, and presently a storm. They watered at the Canaries, traded with savages
at San Domingo, and spent three weeks refreshing themselves among the islands. The quarrels
revived before they reached the Canaries, and there Captain Smith was seized and put in close
confinement for thirteen weeks.

We get little light from contemporary writers on this quarrel. Smith does not mention the arrest
in his "True Relation," but in his "General Historie," writing of the time when they had been
six weeks in Virginia, he says: "Now Captain Smith who all this time from their departure from
the Canaries was restrained as a prisoner upon the scandalous suggestion of some of the chiefs
(envying his repute) who fancied he intended to usurp the government, murder the Council, and
make himself King, that his confedcrates were dispersed in all three ships, and that divers
of his confederates that revealed it, would affirm it, for this he was committed a prisoner;
thirteen weeks he remained thus suspected, and by that time they should return they pretended
out of their commiserations, to refer him to the Council in England to receive a check, rather
than by particulating his designs make him so odious to the world, as to touch his life, or
utterly overthrow his reputation. But he so much scorned their charity and publically defied
the uttermost of their cruelty, he wisely prevented their policies, though he could not suppress
their envies, yet so well he demeaned himself in this business, as all the company did see
his innocency, and his adversaries' malice, and those suborned to accuse him accused his accusers
of subornation; many untruths were alleged against him; but being apparently disproved, begot
a general hatred in the hearts of the company against such unjust Commanders, that the President
was adjudged to give him L 200, so that all he had was seized upon, in part of satisfaction,
which Smith presently returned to the store for the general use of the colony."--

Neither in Newport's "Relatyon" nor in Mr. Wingfield's "Discourse" is the arrest mentioned,
nor does Strachey speak of it.

About 1629, Smith, in writing a description of the Isle of Mevis (Nevis) in his "Travels and
Adventures," says: "In this little [isle] of Mevis, more than twenty years agone, I have remained
a good time together, to wod and water--and refresh my men." It is characteristic of Smith's
vivid imagination, in regard to his own exploits, that he should speak of an expedition in
which he had no command, and was even a prisoner, in this style: "I remained," and "my men."
He goes on: "Such factions here we had as commonly attend such voyages, and a pair of gallows
was made, but Captaine Smith, for whom they were intended, could not be persuaded to use them;
but not any one of the inventors but their lives by justice fell into his power, to determine
of at his pleasure, whom with much mercy he favored, that most basely and unjustly would have
betrayed him." And it is true that Smith, although a great romancer, was often magnanimous,
as vain men are apt to be.

King James's elaborate lack of good sense had sent the expedition to sea with the names of
the Council sealed up in a box, not to be opened till it reached its destination. Consequently
there was no recognized authority. Smith was a young man of about twenty-eight, vain and no
doubt somewhat "bumptious," and it is easy to believe that Wingfield and the others who felt
his superior force and realized his experience, honestly suspected him of designs against the
expedition. He was the ablest man on board, and no doubt was aware of it. That he was not only
a born commander of men, but had the interest of the colony at heart, time was to show.

The voyagers disported themselves among the luxuries of the West Indies. At Guadaloupe they
found a bath so hot that they boiled their pork in it as well as over the fire. At the Island
of Monaca they took from the bushes with their hands near two hogsheads full of birds in three
or four hours. These, it is useless to say, were probably not the "barnacle geese" which the
nautical travelers used to find, and picture growing upon bushes and dropping from the eggs,
when they were ripe, full-fledged into the water. The beasts were fearless of men. Wild birds
and natives had to learn the whites before they feared them.

"In Mevis, Mona, and the Virgin Isles," says the "General Historie," "we spent some time, where
with a lothsome beast like a crocodile, called a gwayn [guana], tortoises, pellicans, parrots,
and fishes, we feasted daily."

Thence they made sail-in search of Virginia, but the mariners lost their reckoning for three
days and made no land; the crews were discomfited, and Captain Ratcliffe, of the pinnace, wanted
to up helm and return to England. But a violent storm, which obliged them "to hull all night,"
drove them to the port desired. On the 26th of April they saw a bit of land none of them had
ever seen before. This, the first land they descried, they named Cape Henry, in honor of the
Prince of Wales; as the opposite cape was called Cape Charles, for the Duke of York, afterwards
Charles I. Within these capes they found one of the most pleasant places in the world, majestic
navigable rivers, beautiful mountains, hills, and plains, and a fruitful and delightsome land.

Mr. George Percy was ravished at the sight of the fair meadows and goodly tall trees. As much
to his taste were the large and delicate oysters, which the natives roasted, and in which were
found many pearls. The ground was covered with fine and beautiful strawberries, four times
bigger than those in England.

Masters Wingfield, Newport, and Gosnold., with thirty men, went ashore on Cape Henry, where
they were suddenly set upon by savages, who came creeping upon all-fours over the hills, like
bears, with their bows in their hands; Captain Archer was hurt in both hands, and a sailor
dangerously wounded in two places on his body. It was a bad omen.

The night of their arrival they anchored at Point Comfort, now Fortress Monroe; the box was
opened and the orders read, which constituted Edward Maria Wingfield, Bartholomew Gosnold,
John Smith, Christopher Newport, John Ratcliffe, John Martin, and George Kendall the Council,
with power to choose a President for a year. Until the 13th of May they were slowly exploring
the River Powhatan, now the James, seeking a place for the settlement. They selected a peninsula
on the north side of the river, forty miles from its mouth, where there was good anchorage,
and which could be readily fortified. This settlement was Jamestown. The Council was then sworn
in, and Mr. Wingfield selected President. Smith being under arrest was not sworn in of the
Council, and an oration was made setting forth the reason for his exclusion.

When they had pitched upon a site for the fort, every man set to work, some to build the fort,
others to pitch the tents, fell trees and make clapboards to reload the ships, others to make
gardens and nets. The fort was in the form of a triangle with a half-moon at each corner, intended
to mount four or five guns.

President Wingfield appears to have taken soldierly precautions, but Smith was not at all pleased
with him from the first. He says "the President's overweening jealousy would admit of no exercise
at arms, or fortifications but the boughs of trees cast together in the form of a half-moon
by the extraordinary pains and diligence of Captain Kendall." He also says there was contention
between Captain Wingfield and Captain Gosnold about the site of the city.

The landing was made at Jamestown on the 14th of May, according to Percy. Previous to that
considerable explorations were made. On the 18th of April they launched a shallop, which they
built the day before, and "discovered up the bay." They discovered a river on the south side
running into the mainland, on the banks of which were good stores of mussels and oysters, goodly
trees, flowers of all colors, and strawberries. Returning to their ships and finding the water
shallow, they rowed over to a point of land, where they found from six to twelve fathoms of
water, which put them in good comfort, therefore they named that part of the land Cape Comfort.
On the 29th they set up a cross on Chesapeake Bay, on Cape Henry, and the next day coasted
to the Indian town of Kecoughton, now Hampton, where they were kindly entertained. When they
first came to land the savages made a doleful noise, laying their paws to the ground and scratching
the earth with their nails. This ceremony, which was taken to be a kind of idolatry, ended,
mats were brought from the houses, whereon the guests were seated, and given to eat bread made
of maize, and tobacco to smoke. The savages also entertained them with dancing and singing
and antic tricks and grimaces. They were naked except a covering of skins about the loins,
and many were painted in black and red, with artificial knots of lovely colors, beautiful and
pleasing to the eye. The 4th of May they were entertained by the chief of Paspika, who favored
them with a long oration, making a foul noise and vehement in action, the purport of which
they did not catch. The savages were full of hospitality. The next day the weroance, or chief,
of Rapahanna sent a messenger to invite them to his seat. His majesty received them in as modest
a proud fashion as if he had been a prince of a civil government. His body was painted in crimson
and his face in blue, and he wore a chain of beads about his neck and in his ears bracelets
of pearls and a bird's claw. The 8th of May they went up the river to the country Apomatica,
where the natives received them in hostile array, the chief, with bow and arrows in one hand,
and a pipe of tobacco in the other, offering them war or peace.

These savages were as stout and able as any heathen or Christians in the world. Mr. Percy said
they bore their years well. He saw among the Pamunkeys a savage reported to be 160, years old,
whose eyes were sunk in his head, his teeth gone his hair all gray, and quite a big beard,
white as snow; he was a lusty savage, and could travel as fast as anybody.

The Indians soon began to be troublesome in their visits to the plantations, skulking about
all night, hanging around the fort by day, bringing sometimes presents of deer, but given to
theft of small articles, and showing jealousy of the occupation. They murmured, says Percy,
at our planting in their country. But worse than the disposition of the savages was the petty
quarreling in the colony itself.

In obedience to the orders to explore for the South Sea, on the 22d of May, Newport, Percy,
Smith, Archer, and twenty others were sent in the shallop to explore the Powhatan, or James River.

Passing by divers small habitations, and through a land abounding in trees, flowers, and small
fruits, a river full of fish, and of sturgeon such as the world beside has none, they came
on the 24th, having passed the town of Powhatan, to the head of the river, the Falls, where
they set up the cross and proclaimed King James of England.

Smith says in his "General Historie" they reached Powhatan on the 26th. But Captain Newport's
"Relatyon" agrees with Percy's, and with, Smith's "True Relation." Captain Newport, says Percy,
permitted no one to visit Powhatan except himself.

Captain Newport's narration of the exploration of the James is interesting, being the first
account we have of this historic river. At the junction of the Appomattox and the James, at
a place he calls Wynauk, the natives welcomed them with rejoicing and entertained them with
dances. The Kingdom of Wynauk was full of pearl-mussels. The king of this tribe was at war
with the King of Paspahegh. Sixteen miles above this point, at an inlet, perhaps Turkey Point,
they were met by eight savages in a canoe, one of whom was intelligent enough to lay out the
whole course of the river, from Chesapeake Bay to its source, with a pen and paper which they
showed him how to use. These Indians kept them company for some time, meeting them here and
there with presents of strawberries, mulberries, bread, and fish, for which they received pins,
needles, and beads. They spent one night at Poore Cottage (the Port Cotage of Percy, where
he saw the white boy), probably now Haxall. Five miles above they went ashore near the now
famous Dutch Gap, where King Arahatic gave them a roasted deer, and caused his women to bake
cakes for them. This king gave Newport his crown, which was of deer's hair dyed red. He was
a subject of the great King Powhatan. While they sat making merry with the savages, feasting
and taking tobacco and seeing the dances, Powhatan himself appeared and was received with great
show of honor, all rising from their seats except King Arahatic, and shouting loudly. To Powhatan
ample presents were made of penny-knives, shears, and toys, and he invited them to visit him
at one of his seats called Powhatan, which was within a mile of the Falls, where now stands
the city of Richmond. All along the shore the inhabitants stood in clusters, offering food
to the strangers. The habitation of Powhatan was situated on a high hill by the water side,
with a meadow at its foot where was grown wheat, beans, tobacco, peas, pompions, flax, and hemp.

Powhatan served the whites with the best he had, and best of all with a friendly welcome and
with interesting discourse of the country. They made a league of friendship. The next day he
gave them six men as guides to the falls above, and they left with him one man as a hostage.

On Sunday, the 24th of May, having returned to Powhatan's seat, they made a feast for him of
pork, cooked with peas, and the Captain and King ate familiarly together; "he eat very freshly
of our meats, dranck of our beere, aquavite, and sack." Under the influence of this sack and
aquavite the King was very communicative about the interior of the country, and promised to
guide them to the mines of iron and copper; but the wary chief seems to have thought better
of it when he got sober, and put them off with the difficulties and dangers of the way.

On one of the islets below the Falls, Captain Newport set up a cross with the inscription "Jacobus,
Rex, 1607," and his own name beneath, and James was proclaimed King with a great shout. Powhatan
was displeased with their importunity to go further up the river, and departed with all the
Indians, except the friendly Navirans, who had accompanied them from Arahatic. Navirans greatly
admired the cross, but Newport hit upon an explanation of its meaning that should dispel the
suspicions of Powhatan. He told him that the two arms of the cross signified King Powhatan
and himself, the fastening of it in the middle was their united league, and the shout was the
reverence he did to Powhatan. This explanation being made to Powhatan greatly contented him,
and he came on board and gave them the kindest farewell when they dropped down the river. At
Arahatic they found the King had provided victuals for them, but, says Newport, "the King told
us that he was very sick and not able to sit up long with us." The inability of the noble red
man to sit up was no doubt due to too much Christian sack and aquavite, for on "Monday he came
to the water side, and we went ashore with him again. He told us that our hot drinks, he thought,
caused him grief, but that he was well again, and we were very welcome."

It seems, therefore, that to Captain Newport, who was a good sailor in his day, and has left
his name in Virginia in Newport News, must be given the distinction of first planting the cross
in Virginia, with a lie, and watering it, with aquavite.

They dropped down the river to a place called Mulberry Shade, where the King killed a deer
and prepared for them another feast, at which they had rolls and cakes made of wheat. "This
the women make and are very cleanly about it. We had parched meal, excellent good, sodd [cooked]
beans, which eat as sweet as filbert kernels, in a manner, strawberries; and mulberries were
shaken off the tree, dropping on our heads as we sat. He made ready a land turtle, which we
ate; and showed that he was heartily rejoiced in our company." Such was the amiable disposition
of the natives before they discovered the purpose of the whites to dispossess them of their
territory. That night they stayed at a place called "Kynd Woman's Care," where the people offered
them abundant victual and craved nothing in return.

Next day they went ashore at a place Newport calls Queen Apumatuc's Bower. This Queen, who
owed allegiance to Powhatan, had much land under cultivation, and dwelt in state on a pretty
hill. This ancient representative of woman's rights in Virginia did honor to her sex. She came
to meet the strangers in a show as majestical as that of Powhatan himself: "She had an usher
before her, who brought her to the matt prepared under a faire mulberry-tree; where she sat
down by herself, with a stayed countenance. She would permitt none to stand or sitt neare her.
She is a fatt, lustie, manly woman. She had much copper about her neck, a coronet of copper
upon her hed. She had long, black haire, which hanged loose down her back to her myddle; which
only part was covered with a deare's skyn, and ells all naked. She had her women attending
her, adorned much like herself (except they wanted the copper). Here we had our accustomed
eates, tobacco, and welcome. Our Captaine presented her with guyfts liberally, whereupon shee
cheered somewhat her countenance, and requested him to shoote off a piece; whereat (we noted)
she showed not near the like feare as Arahatic, though he be a goodly man."

The company was received with the same hospitality by King Pamunkey, whose land was believed
to be rich in copper and pearls. The copper was so flexible that Captain Newport bent a piece
of it the thickness of his finger as if it had been lead. The natives were unwilling to part
with it. The King had about his neck a string of pearls as big as peas, which would have been
worth three or four hundred pounds, if the pearls had been taken from the mussels as they should
have been.

Arriving on their route at Weanock, some twenty miles above the fort, they were minded to visit
Paspahegh and another chief Jamestown lay in the territory of Paspahegh--but suspicious signs
among the natives made them apprehend trouble at the fort, and they hastened thither to find
their suspicions verified. The day before, May 26th, the colony had been attacked by two hundred
Indians (four hundred, Smith says), who were only beaten off when they had nearly entered the
fort, by the use of the artillery. The Indians made a valiant fight for an hour; eleven white
men were wounded, of whom one died afterwards, and a boy was killed on the pinnace. This loss
was concealed from the Indians, who for some time seem to have believed that the whites could
not be hurt. Four of the Council were hurt in this fight, and President Wingfield, who showed
himself a valiant gentleman, had a shot through his beard. They killed eleven of the Indians,
but their comrades lugged them away on their backs and buried them in the woods with a great
noise. For several days alarms and attacks continued, and four or five men were cruelly wounded,
and one gentleman, Mr. Eustace Cloville, died from the effects of five arrows in his body.

Upon this hostility, says Smith, the President was contented the fort should be palisaded,
and the ordnance mounted, and the men armed and exercised. The fortification went on, but the
attacks continued, and it was unsafe for any to venture beyond the fort.

Dissatisfaction arose evidently with President Wingfield's management. Captain Newport says:
"There being among the gentlemen and all the company a murmur and grudge against certain proceedings
and inconvenient courses [Newport] put up a petition to the Council for reformation." The Council
heeded this petition, and urged to amity by Captain Newport, the company vowed faithful love
to each other and obedience to the superiors. On the 10th of June, Captain Smith was sworn
of the Council. In his "General Historie," not published till 1624, he says: "Many were the
mischiefs that daily sprung from their ignorant (yet ambitious) spirits; but the good doctrine
and exhortation of our preacher Mr. Hunt, reconciled them and caused Captain Smith to be admitted
to the Council." The next day they all partook of the holy communion.

In order to understand this quarrel, which was not by any means appeased by this truce, and
to determine Captain Smith's responsibility for it, it is necessary to examine all the witnesses.
Smith is unrestrained in his expression of his contempt for Wingfield. But in the diary of
Wingfield we find no accusation against Smith at this date. Wingfield says that Captain Newport
before he departed asked him how he thought himself settled in the government, and that he
replied "that no disturbance could endanger him or the colony, but it must be wrought either
by Captain Gosnold or Mr. Archer, for the one was strong with friends and followers and could
if he would; and the other was troubled with an ambitious spirit and would if he could."

The writer of Newport's "Relatyon" describes the Virginia savages as a very strong and lusty
race, and swift warriors. "Their skin is tawny; not so borne, but with dyeing and painting
themselves, in which they delight greatly." That the Indians were born white was, as we shall
see hereafter, a common belief among the first settlers in Virginia and New England. Percy
notes a distinction between maids and married women: "The maids shave close the fore part and
sides of their heads, and leave it long behind, where it is tied up and hangs down to the hips.
The married women wear their hair all of a length, but tied behind as that of maids is. And
the women scratch on their bodies and limbs, with a sharp iron, pictures of fowls, fish, and
beasts, and rub into the 'drawings' lively colors which dry into the flesh and are permanent."
The "Relatyon" says the people are witty and ingenious and allows them many good qualities,
but makes this exception: "The people steal anything comes near them; yea, are so practiced
in this art, that looking in our face, they would with their foot, between their toes, convey
a chisel, knife, percer, or any indifferent light thing, which having once conveyed, they hold
it an injury to take the same from them. They are naturally given to treachery; howbeit we
could not find it in our travel up the river, but rather a most kind and loving people."

VI. QUARRELS AND HARDSHIPS

On Sunday, June 21st, they took the communion lovingly together. That evening Captain Newport
gave a farewell supper on board his vessel. The 22d he sailed in the Susan Constant for England,
carrying specimens of the woods and minerals, and made the short passage of five weeks. Dudley
Carleton, in a letter to John Chamberlain dated Aug. 18, 1607, writes "that Captain Newport
has arrived without gold or silver, and that the adventurers, cumbered by the presence of the
natives, have fortified themselves at a place called Jamestown." The colony left numbered one
hundred and four.

The good harmony of the colony did not last. There were other reasons why the settlement was
unprosperous. The supply of wholesome provisions was inadequate. The situation of the town
near the Chickahominy swamps was not conducive to health, and although Powhatan had sent to
make peace with them, and they also made a league of amity with the chiefs Paspahegh and Tapahanagh,
they evidently had little freedom of movement beyond sight of their guns. Percy says they were
very bare and scant of victuals, and in wars and dangers with the savages.

Smith says in his "True Relation," which was written on the spot, and is much less embittered
than his "General Historie," that they were in good health and content when Newport departed,
but this did not long continue, for President Wingfield and Captain Gosnold, with the most
of the Council, were so discontented with each other that nothing was done with discretion,
and no business transacted with wisdom. This he charges upon the "hard-dealing of the President,"
the rest of the Council being diversely affected through his audacious command. "Captain Martin,
though honest, was weak and sick; Smith was in disgrace through the malice of others; and God
sent famine and sickness, so that the living were scarce able to bury the dead. Our want of
sufficient good food, and continual watching, four or five each night, at three bulwarks, being
the chief cause; only of sturgeon we had great store, whereon we would so greedily surfeit,
as it cost many their lives; the sack, Aquavite, and other preservations of our health being
kept in the President's hands, for his own diet and his few associates."

In his "General Historie," written many years later, Smith enlarges this indictment with some
touches of humor characteristic of him. He says:

"Being thus left to our fortunes, it fortuned that within ten days scarce ten amongst us could
either go, or well stand, such extreme weakness and sicknes oppressed us. And thereat none
need marvaile if they consider the cause and reason, which was this: whilst the ships stayed,
our allowance was somewhat bettered, by a daily proportion of Bisket, which the sailors would
pilfer to sell, give, or exchange with us for money, Saxefras, furres, or love. But when they
departed, there remained neither taverne, beere-house, nor place of reliefe, but the common
Kettell. Had we beene as free from all sinnes as gluttony, and drunkennesse, we might have
been canonized for Saints. But our President would never have been admitted, for ingrissing
to his private, Oatmeale, Sacke, Oyle, Aquavitz, Beef, Egges, or what not, but the Kettell:
that indeed he allowed equally to be distributed, and that was half a pint of wheat, and as
much barley boyled with water for a man a day, and this being fryed some twenty-six weeks in
the ship's hold, contained as many wormes as graines; so that we might truly call it rather
so much bran than corrne, our drinke was water, our lodgings Castles in the ayre; with this
lodging and dyet, our extreme toile in bearing and planting Pallisadoes, so strained and bruised
us, and our continual labour in the extremitie of the heat had so weakened us, as were cause
sufficient to have made us miserable in our native countrey, or any other place in the world."

Affairs grew worse. The sufferings of this colony in the summer equaled that of the Pilgrims
at Plymouth in the winter and spring. Before September forty-one were buried, says Wingfield;
fifty, says Smith in one statement, and forty-six in another; Percy gives a list of twenty-four
who died in August and September. Late in August Wingfield said, "Sickness had not now left
us seven able men in our town." "As yet," writes Smith in September, "we had no houses to cover
us, our tents were rotten, and our cabins worse than nought."

Percy gives a doleful picture of the wretchedness of the colony: "Our men were destroyed with
cruel sickness, as swellings, fluxes, burning-fevers, and by wars, and some departed suddenly,
but for the most part they died of mere famine.... We watched every three nights, lying on
the cold bare ground what weather soever came, worked all the next day, which brought our men
to be most feeble wretches, our food was but a small can of barley, sod in water to five men
a day, our drink but cold water taken out of the river, which was at the flood very salt, at
a low tide full of shrimp and filth, which was the destruction of many of our men. Thus we
lived for the space of five months in this miserable distress, but having five able men to
man our bulwarks upon any occasion. If it had not pleased God to put a terror in the savage
hearts, we had all perished by those wild and cruel Pagans, being in that weak state as we
were: our men night and day groaning in every corner of the fort, most pitiful to hear. If
there were any conscience in men, it would make their hearts to bleed to hear the pitiful murmurings
and outcries of our sick men, without relief, every night and day, for the space of six weeks:
some departing out of the world; many times three or four in a night; in the morning their
bodies trailed out of their cabins, like dogs, to be buried. In this sort did I see the mortality
of divers of our people."

A severe loss to the colony was the death on the 22d of August of Captain Bartholomew Gosnold,
one of the Council, a brave and adventurous mariner, and, says Wingfield, a "worthy and religious
gentleman." He was honorably buried, "having all the ordnance in the fort shot off with many
volleys of small shot." If the Indians had known that those volleys signified the mortality
of their comrades, the colony would no doubt have been cut off entirely. It is a melancholy
picture, this disheartened and half-famished band of men quarreling among themselves; the occupation
of the half-dozen able men was nursing the sick and digging graves. We anticipate here by saying,
on the authority of a contemporary manuscript in the State Paper office, that when Captain
Newport arrived with the first supply in January, 1608, "he found the colony consisting of
no more than forty persons; of those, ten only able men."

After the death of Gosnold, Captain Kendall was deposed from the Council and put in prison
for sowing discord between the President and Council, says Wingfield; for heinous matters which
were proved against him, says Percy; for "divers reasons," says Smith, who sympathized with
his dislike of Wingfield. The colony was in very low estate at this time, and was only saved
from famine by the providential good-will of the Indians, who brought them corn half ripe,
and presently meat and fruit in abundance.

On the 7th of September the chief Paspahegh gave a token of peace by returning a white boy
who had run away from camp, and other runaways were returned by other chiefs, who reported
that they had been well used in their absence. By these returns Mr. Wingfield was convinced
that the Indians were not cannibals, as Smith believed.

On the 10th of September Mr. Wingfield was deposed from the presidency and the Council, and
Captain John Ratcliffe was elected President. Concerning the deposition there has been much
dispute; but the accounts of it by Captain Smith and his friends, so long accepted as the truth,
must be modified by Mr. Wingfield's "Discourse of Virginia," more recently come to light, which
is, in a sense, a defense of his conduct.

In his "True Relation" Captain Smith is content to say that "Captain Wingfield, having ordered
the affairs in such sort that he was hated of them all, in which respect he was with one accord
deposed from the presidency."

In the "General Historie" the charges against him, which we have already quoted, are extended,
and a new one is added, that is, a purpose of deserting the colony in the pinnace: "the rest
seeing the President's projects to escape these miseries in our pinnace by flight (who all
this time had neither felt want nor sickness), so moved our dead spirits we deposed him."

In the scarcity of food and the deplorable sickness and death, it was inevitable that extreme
dissatisfaction should be felt with the responsible head. Wingfield was accused of keeping
the best of the supplies to himself. The commonalty may have believed this. Smith himself must
have known that the supplies were limited, but have been willing to take advantage of this
charge to depose the President, who was clearly in many ways incompetent for his trying position.
It appears by Mr. Wingfield's statement that the supply left with the colony was very scant,
a store that would only last thirteen weeks and a half, and prudence in the distribution of
it, in the uncertainty of Newport's return, was a necessity. Whether Wingfield used the delicacies
himself is a question which cannot be settled. In his defense, in all we read of him, except
that written by Smith and his friends, he seems to be a temperate and just man, little qualified
to control the bold spirits about him.

As early as July, "in his sickness time, the President did easily fortell his own deposing
from his command," so much did he differ from the Council in the management of the colony.
Under date of September 7th he says that the Council demanded a larger allowance for themselves
and for some of the sick, their favorites, which he declined to give without their warrants
as councilors. Captain Martin of the Council was till then ignorant that only store for thirteen
and a half weeks was in the hands of the Cape Merchant, or treasurer, who was at that time
Mr. Thomas Studley. Upon a representation to the Council of the lowness of the stores, and
the length of time that must elapse before the harvest of grain, they declined to enlarge the
allowance, and even ordered that every meal of fish or flesh should excuse the allowance of
porridge. Mr. Wingfield goes on to say: "Nor was the common store of oyle, vinegar, sack, and
aquavite all spent, saving two gallons of each: the sack reserved for the Communion table,
the rest for such extremities as might fall upon us, which the President had only made known
to Captain Gosnold; of which course he liked well. The vessels wear, therefore, boonged upp.
When Mr. Gosnold was dead, the President did acquaint the rest of the Council with the said
remnant; but, Lord, how they then longed for to supp up that little remnant: for they had now
emptied all their own bottles, and all other that they could smell out."

Shortly after this the Council again importuned the President for some better allowance for
themselves and for the sick. He protested his impartiality, showed them that if the portions
were distributed according to their request the colony would soon starve; he still offered
to deliver what they pleased on their warrants, but would not himself take the responsibility
of distributing all the stores, and when he divined the reason of their impatience he besought
them to bestow the presidency among themselves, and he would be content to obey as a private.
Meantime the Indians were bringing in supplies of corn and meat, the men were so improved in
health that thirty were able to work, and provision for three weeks' bread was laid up.

Nevertheless, says Mr. Wingfield, the Council had fully plotted to depose him. Of the original
seven there remained, besides Mr. Wingfield, only three in the Council. Newport was in England,
Gosnold was dead, and Kendall deposed. Mr. Wingfield charged that the three--Ratcliffe, Smith,
and Martin--forsook the instructions of his Majesty, and set up a Triumvirate. At any rate,
Wingfield was forcibly deposed from the Council on the 10th of September. If the object had
been merely to depose him, there was an easier way, for Wingfield was ready to resign. But
it appears, by subsequent proceedings, that they wished to fasten upon him the charge of embezzlement,
the responsibility of the sufferings of the colony, and to mulct him in fines. He was arrested,
and confined on the pinnace. Mr. Ratcliffe was made President.

On the 11th of September Mr. Wingfield was brought before the Council sitting as a court, and
heard the charges against him. They were, as Mr. Wingfield says, mostly frivolous trifles.
According to his report they were these:

First, Mister President [Radcliffe] said that I had denied him a penny whitle, a chicken, a
spoonful of beer, and served him with foul corn; and with that pulled some grain out of a bag,
showing it to the company.

Then starts up Mr. Smith and said that I had told him plainly how he lied; and that I said,
though we were equal here, yet if we were in England, he [I] would think scorn his man should
be my companion.

Mr. Martin followed with: "He reported that I do slack the service in the colony, and do nothing
but tend my pot, spit, and oven; but he hath starved my son, and denied him a spoonful of beer.
I have friends in England shall be revenged on him, if ever he come in London."

Voluminous charges were read against Mr. Wingfield by Mr. Archer, who had been made by the
Council, Recorder of Virginia, the author, according to Wingfield, of three several mutinies,
as "always hatching of some mutiny in my time."

Mr. Percy sent him word in his prison that witnesses were hired to testify against him by bribes
of cakes and by threats. If Mr. Percy, who was a volunteer in this expedition, and a man of
high character, did send this information, it shows that he sympathized with him, and this
is an important piece of testimony to his good character.

Wingfield saw no way of escape from the malice of his accusers, whose purpose he suspected
was to fine him fivefold for all the supplies whose disposition he could not account for in
writing: but he was finally allowed to appeal to the King for mercy, and recommitted to the
pinnace. In regard to the charge of embezzlement, Mr. Wingfield admitted that it was impossible
to render a full account: he had no bill of items from the Cape Merchant when he received the
stores, he had used the stores for trade and gifts with the Indians; Captain Newport had done
the same in his expedition, without giving any memorandum. Yet he averred that he never expended
the value of these penny whittles [small pocket-knives] to his private use.

There was a mutinous and riotous spirit on shore, and the Council professed to think Wingfield's
life was in danger. He says: "In all these disorders was Mr. Archer a ringleader." Meantime
the Indians continued to bring in supplies, and the Council traded up and down the river for
corn, and for this energy Mr. Wingfield gives credit to "Mr. Smith especially," "which relieved
the colony well." To the report that was brought him that he was charged with starving the
colony, he replies with some natural heat and a little show of petulance, that may be taken
as an evidence of weakness, as well as of sincerity, and exhibiting the undignified nature
of all this squabbling:

"I did alwaises give every man his allowance faithfully, both of corne, oyle, aquivite, etc.,
as was by the counsell proportioned: neyther was it bettered after my tyme, untill, towards
th' end of March, a bisket was allowed to every working man for his breakfast, by means of
the provision brought us by Captn. Newport: as will appeare hereafter. It is further said,
I did much banquit and ryot. I never had but one squirrel roasted; whereof I gave part to Mr.
Ratcliffe then sick: yet was that squirrel given me. I did never heate a flesh pott but when
the comon pott was so used likewise. Yet how often Mr. President's and the Counsellors' spitts
have night and daye bene endaungered to break their backes-so, laden with swanns, geese, ducks,
etc.! how many times their flesh potts have swelled, many hungrie eies did behold, to their
great longing: and what great theeves and theeving thear hath been in the comon stoare since
my tyme, I doubt not but is already made knowne to his Majesty's Councell for Virginia."

Poor Wingfield was not left at ease in his confinement. On the 17th he was brought ashore to
answer the charge of Jehu [John?] Robinson that he had with Robinson and others intended to
run away with the pinnace to Newfoundland; and the charge by Mr. Smith that he had accused
Smith of intending mutiny. To the first accuser the jury awarded one hundred pounds, and to
the other two hundred pounds damages, for slander. "Seeing their law so speedy and cheap,"
Mr. Wingfield thought he would try to recover a copper kettle he had lent Mr. Crofts, worth
half its weight in gold. But Crofts swore that Wingfield had given it to him, and he lost his
kettle: "I told Mr. President I had not known the like law, and prayed they would be more sparing
of law till we had more witt or wealthe." Another day they obtained from Wingfield the key
to his coffers, and took all his accounts, note-books, and "owne proper goods," which he could
never recover. Thus was I made good prize on all sides.

During one of Smith's absences on the river President Ratcliffe did beat James Read, the blacksmith.
Wingfield says the Council were continually beating the men for their own pleasure. Read struck
back.

For this he was condemned to be hanged; but "before he turned of the lather," he desired to
speak privately with the President, and thereupon accused Mr. Kendall--who had been released
from the pinnace when Wingfield was sent aboard--of mutiny. Read escaped. Kendall was convicted
of mutiny and shot to death. In arrest of judgment he objected that the President had no authority
to pronounce judgment because his name was Sicklemore and not Ratcliffe. This was true, and
Mr. Martin pronounced the sentence. In his "True Relation," Smith agrees with this statement
of the death of Kendall, and says that he was tried by a jury. It illustrates the general looseness
of the "General Historie," written and compiled many years afterwards, that this transaction
there appears as follows: "Wingfield and Kendall being in disgrace, seeing all things at random
in the absence of Smith, the company's dislike of their President's weakness, and their small
love to Martin's never-mending sickness, strengthened themselves with the sailors and other
confederates to regain their power, control, and authority, or at least such meanes aboard
the pinnace (being fitted to sail as Smith had appointed for trade) to alter her course and
to goe for England. Smith unexpectedly returning had the plot discovered to him, much trouble
he had to prevent it, till with store of sakre and musket-shot he forced them to stay or sink
in the river, which action cost the life of Captain Kendall."

In a following sentence he says: "The President [Ratcliffe] and Captain Archer not long after
intended also to have abandoned the country, which project also was curbed and suppressed by
Smith." Smith was always suppressing attempts at flight, according to his own story, unconfirmed
by any other writers. He had before accused President Wingfield of a design to escape in the
pinnace.

Communications were evidently exchanged with Mr. Wingfield on the pinnace, and the President
was evidently ill at ease about him. One day he was summoned ashore, but declined to go, and
requested an interview with ten gentlemen. To those who came off to him he said that he had
determined to go to England to make known the weakness of the colony, that he could not live
under the laws and usurpations of the Triumvirate; however, if the President and Mr. Archer
would go, he was willing to stay and take his fortune with the colony, or he would contribute
one hundred pounds towards taking the colony home. "They did like none of my proffers, but
made divers shott at uss in the pynnasse." Thereupon he went ashore and had a conference.

On the 10th of December Captain Smith departed on his famous expedition up the Chickahominy,
during which the alleged Pocahontas episode occurred. Mr. Wingfield's condensed account of
this journey and captivity we shall refer to hereafter. In Smith's absence President Ratcliffe,
contrary to his oath, swore Mr. Archer one of the Council; and Archer was no sooner settled
in authority than he sought to take Smith's life. The enmity of this man must be regarded as
a long credit mark to Smith. Archer had him indicted upon a chapter in Leviticus (they all
wore a garb of piety) for the death of two men who were killed by the Indians on his expedition.
"He had had his trials the same daie of his retourne," says Wingfield, "and I believe his hanging
the same, or the next daie, so speedy is our law there. But it pleased God to send Captain
Newport unto us the same evening, to our unspeakable comfort; whose arrivall saved Mr. Smyth's
leif and mine, because he took me out of the pynnasse, and gave me leave to lyve in the towne.
Also by his comyng was prevented a parliament, which the newe counsailor, Mr. Recorder, intended
thear to summon."

Captain Newport's arrival was indeed opportune. He was the only one of the Council whose character
and authority seem to have been generally respected, the only one who could restore any sort
of harmony and curb the factious humors of the other leaders. Smith should have all credit
for his energy in procuring supplies, for his sagacity in dealing with the Indians, for better
sense than most of the other colonists exhibited, and for more fidelity to the objects of the
plantation than most of them; but where ability to rule is claimed for him, at this juncture
we can but contrast the deference shown by all to Newport with the want of it given to Smith.
Newport's presence at once quelled all the uneasy spirits.

Newport's arrival, says Wingfield, "saved Mr Smith's life and mine." Smith's account of the
episode is substantially the same. In his "True Relation" he says on his return to the fort
"each man with truest signs of joy they could express welcomed me, except Mr. Archer, and some
two or three of his, who was then in my absence sworn councilor, though not with the consent
of Captain Martin; great blame and imputation was laid upon me by them for the loss of our
two men which the Indians slew: insomuch that they purposed to depose me, but in the midst
of my miseries, it pleased God to send Captain Newport, who arriving there the same night,
so tripled our joy, as for a while those plots against me were deferred, though with much malice
against me, which Captain Newport in short time did plainly see." In his "Map of Virginia,"
the Oxford tract of 1612, Smith does not allude to this; but in the "General Historie" it had
assumed a different aspect in his mind, for at the time of writing that he was the irresistible
hero, and remembered himself as always nearly omnipotent in Virginia. Therefore, instead of
expressions of gratitude to Newport we read this: "Now in Jamestown they were all in combustion,
the strongest preparing once more to run away with the pinnace; which with the hazard of his
life, with Sakre, falcon and musket shot, Smith forced now the third time to stay or sink.
Some no better than they should be, had plotted to put him to death by the Levitical law, for
the lives of Robinson and Emry, pretending that the fault was his, that led them to their ends;
but he quickly took such order with such Lawyers, that he laid them by the heels till he sent
some of them prisoners to England."

Clearly Captain Smith had no authority to send anybody prisoner to England. When Newport returned,
April 10th, Wingfield and Archer went with him. Wingfield no doubt desired to return. Archer
was so insolent, seditious, and libelous that he only escaped the halter by the interposition
of Newport. The colony was willing to spare both these men, and probably Newport it was who
decided they should go. As one of the Council, Smith would undoubtedly favor their going. He
says in the "General Historie": "We not having any use of parliaments, plaises, petitions,
admirals, recorders, interpreters, chronologers, courts of plea, or justices of peace, sent
Master Wingfield and Captain Archer home with him, that had engrossed all those titles, to
seek some better place of employment." Mr. Wingfield never returned. Captain Archer returned
in 1609, with the expedition of Gates and Somers, as master of one of the ships.

Newport had arrived with the first supply on the 8th of January, 1608. The day before, according
to Wingfield, a fire occurred which destroyed nearly all the town, with the clothing and provisions.
According to Smith, who is probably correct in this, the fire did not occur till five or six
days after the arrival of the ship. The date is uncertain, and some doubt is also thrown upon
the date of the arrival of the ship. It was on the day of Smith's return from captivity: and
that captivity lasted about four weeks if the return was January 8th, for he started on the
expedition December 10th. Smith subsequently speaks of his captivity lasting six or seven weeks.

In his "General Historie" Smith says the fire happened after the return of the expedition of
Newport, Smith, and Scrivener to the Pamunkey: "Good Master Hunt, our Preacher, lost all his
library, and all he had but the clothes on his back; yet none ever heard him repine at his
loss." This excellent and devoted man is the only one of these first pioneers of whom everybody
speaks well, and he deserved all affection and respect.

One of the first labors of Newport was to erect a suitable church.

It is due to Mr. Wingfield, who is about to disappear from Virginia, that something more in
his defense against the charges of Smith and the others should be given. It is not possible
now to say how the suspicion of his religious soundness arose, but there seems to have been
a notion that he had papal tendencies. His grandfather, Sir Richard Wingfield, was buried in
Toledo, Spain. His father, Thomas Maria Wingfield, was christened by Queen Mary and Cardinal
Pole. These facts perhaps gave rise to the suspicion. He answers them with some dignity and
simplicity, and with a little querulousness:

"It is noised that I combyned with the Spanniards to the distruccion of the Collony; that I
ame an atheist, because I carryed not a Bible with me, and because I did forbid the preacher
to preache; that I affected a kingdome; that I did hide of the comon provision in the ground.

"I confesse I have alwayes admyred any noble vertue and prowesse, as well in the Spanniards
(as in other nations): but naturally I have alwayes distrusted and disliked their neighborhoode.
I sorted many bookes in my house, to be sent up to me at my goeing to Virginia; amongst them
a Bible. They were sent up in a trunk to London, with divers fruite, conserves, and preserves,
which I did sett in Mr. Crofts his house in Ratcliff. In my beeing at Virginia, I did understand
my trunk was thear broken up, much lost, my sweetmeates eaten at his table, some of my bookes
which I missed to be seene in his hands: and whether amongst them my Bible was so ymbeasiled
or mislayed by my servants, and not sent me, I knowe not as yet.

"Two or three Sunday mornings, the Indians gave us allarums at our towne. By that tymes they
weare answered, the place about us well discovered, and our devyne service ended, the daie
was farr spent. The preacher did aske me if it were my pleasure to have a sermon: hee said
hee was prepared for it. I made answere, that our men were weary and hungry, and that he did
see the time of the daie farr past (for at other tymes bee never made such question, but, the
service finished he began his sermon); and that, if it pleased him, wee would spare him till
some other tyme. I never failed to take such noates by wrighting out of his doctrine as my
capacity could comprehend, unless some raynie day hindred my endeavor. My mynde never swelled
with such ympossible mountebank humors as could make me affect any other kingdome than the
kingdom of heaven.

"As truly as God liveth, I gave an ould man, then the keeper of the private store, 2 glasses
with sallet oyle which I brought with me out of England for my private stoare, and willed him
to bury it in the ground, for that I feared the great heate would spoile it. Whatsoever was
more, I did never consent unto or know of it, and as truly was it protested unto me, that all
the remaynder before mencioned of the oyle, wyne, &c., which the President receyved of me when
I was deposed they themselves poored into their owne bellyes.

"To the President's and Counsell's objections I saie that I doe knowe curtesey and civility
became a governor. No penny whittle was asked me, but a knife, whereof I have none to spare
The Indyans had long before stoallen my knife. Of chickins I never did eat but one, and that
in my sicknes. Mr. Ratcliff had before that time tasted Of 4 or 5. I had by my owne huswiferie
bred above 37, and the most part of them my owne poultrye; of all which, at my comyng awaie,
I did not see three living. I never denyed him (or any other) beare, when I had it. The corne
was of the same which we all lived upon.

"Mr. Smyth, in the time of our hungar, had spread a rumor in the Collony, that I did feast
myself and my servants out of the comon stoare, with entent (as I gathered) to have stirred
the discontented company against me. I told him privately, in Mr. Gosnold's tent, that indeede
I had caused half a pint of pease to be sodden with a peese of pork, of my own provision, for
a poore old man, which in a sicknes (whereof he died) he much desired; and said, that if out
of his malice he had given it out otherwise, that hee did tell a leye. It was proved to his
face, that he begged in Ireland like a rogue, without a lycence. To such I would not my nam
should be a companyon."

The explanation about the Bible as a part of his baggage is a little far-fetched, and it is
evident that that book was not his daily companion. Whether John Smith habitually carried one
about with him we are not informed. The whole passage quoted gives us a curious picture of
the mind and of the habits of the time. This allusion to John Smith's begging is the only reference
we can find to his having been in Ireland. If he was there it must have been in that interim
in his own narrative between his return from Morocco and his going to Virginia. He was likely
enough to seek adventure there, as the hangers-on of the court in Raleigh's day occasionally
did, and perhaps nothing occurred during his visit there that he cared to celebrate. If he
went to Ireland he probably got in straits there, for that was his usual luck.

Whatever is the truth about Mr. Wingfield's inefficiency and embezzlement of corn meal, Communion
sack, and penny whittles, his enemies had no respect for each other or concord among themselves.
It is Wingfield's testimony that Ratcliffe said he would not have been deposed if he had visited
Ratcliffe during his sickness. Smith said that Wingfield would not have been deposed except
for Archer; that the charges against him were frivolous. Yet, says Wingfield, "I do believe
him the first and only practiser in these practices," and he attributed Smith's hostility to
the fact that "his name was mentioned in the intended and confessed mutiny by Galthrop." Noother
reference is made to this mutiny. Galthrop was one of those who died in the previous August.

One of the best re-enforcements of the first supply was Matthew Scrivener, who was appointed
one of the Council. He was a sensible man, and he and Smith worked together in harmony for
some time. They were intent upon building up the colony. He charges that Newport delayed his
return to England on account of this gold fever, in order to load his vessel (which remained
fourteen weeks when it might have sailed in fourteen days) with gold-dust. Captain Martin seconded
Newport in this; Smith protested against it; he thought Newport was no refiner, and it did
torment him "to see all necessary business neglected, to fraught such a drunken ship with so
much gilded durt." This was the famous load of gold that proved to be iron pyrites.

In speaking of the exploration of the James River as far as the Falls by Newport, Smith, and
Percy, we have followed the statements of Percy and the writer of Newport's discovery that
they saw the great Powhatan. There is much doubt of this. Smith in his "True Relation" does
not say so; in his voyage up the Chickahominy he seems to have seen Powhatan for the first
time; and Wingfield speaks of Powhatan, on Smith's return from that voyage, as one "of whom
before we had no knowledge." It is conjectured that the one seen at Powhatan's seat near the
Falls was a son of the "Emperor." It was partly the exaggeration of the times to magnify discoveries,
and partly English love of high titles, that attributed such titles as princes, emperors, and
kings to the half-naked barbarians and petty chiefs of Virginia.

In all the accounts of the colony at this period, no mention is made of women, and it is not
probable that any went over with the first colonists. The character of the men was not high.
Many of them were "gentlemen" adventurers, turbulent spirits, who would not work, who were
much better fitted for piratical maraudings than the labor of founding a state. The historian
must agree with the impression conveyed by Smith, that it was poor material out of which to
make a colony.

VII. SMITH TO THE FRONT

It is now time to turn to Smith's personal adventures among the Indians during this period.
Almost our only authority is Smith himself, or such presumed writings of his companions as
he edited or rewrote. Strachey and others testify to his energy in procuring supplies for the
colony, and his success in dealing with the Indians, and it seems likely that the colony would
have famished but for his exertions. Whatever suspicion attaches to Smith's relation of his
own exploits, it must never be forgotten that he was a man of extraordinary executive ability,
and had many good qualities to offset his vanity and impatience of restraint.

After the departure of Wingfield, Captain Smith was constrained to act as Cape Merchant; the
leaders were sick or discontented, the rest were in despair, and would rather starve and rot
than do anything for their own relief, and the Indian trade was decreasing. Under these circumstances,
Smith says in his "True Relation," "I was sent to the mouth of the river, to Kegquoughtan [now
Hampton], an Indian Towne, to trade for corn, and try the river for fish." The Indians, thinking
them near famished, tantalized them with offers of little bits of bread in exchange for a hatchet
or a piece of copper, and Smith offered trifles in return. The next day the Indians were anxious
to trade. Smith sent men up to their town, a display of force was made by firing four guns,
and the Indians kindly traded, giving fish, oysters, bread, and deer. The town contained eighteen
houses, and heaps of grain. Smith obtained fifteen bushels of it, and on his homeward way he
met two canoes with Indians, whom he accompanied to their villages on the south side of the
river, and got from them fifteen bushels more.

This incident is expanded in the "General Historie." After the lapse of fifteen years Smith
is able to remember more details, and to conceive himself as the one efficient man who had
charge of everything outside the fort, and to represent his dealings with the Indians in a
much more heroic and summary manner. He was not sent on the expedition, but went of his own
motion. The account opens in this way: "The new President [Ratcliffe] and Martin, being little
beloved, of weake judgement in dangers, and loose industrie in peace, committed the management
of all things abroad to Captain Smith; who by his own example, good words, and fair promises,
set some to mow, others to binde thatch, some to builde houses, others to thatch them, himselfe
always bearing the greatest taske for his own share, so that in short time he provided most
of them with lodgings, neglecting any for himselfe. This done, seeing the Salvage superfluities
beginne to decrease (with some of his workmen) shipped himself in the Shallop to search the
country for trade."

In this narration, when the Indians trifled with Smith he fired a volley at them, ran his boat
ashore, and pursued them fleeing towards their village, where were great heaps of corn that
he could with difficulty restrain his soldiers [six or seven] from taking. The Indians then
assaulted them with a hideous noise: "Sixty or seventy of them, some black, some red, some
white, some particoloured, came in a square order, singing and dancing out of the woods, with
their Okee (which is an Idol made of skinnes, stuffed with mosse, and painted and hung with
chains and copper) borne before them; and in this manner being well armed with clubs, targets,
bowes and arrowes, they charged the English that so kindly received them with their muskets
loaden with pistol shot, that down fell their God, and divers lay sprawling on the ground;
the rest fled againe to the woods, and ere long sent men of their Quiyoughkasoucks [conjurors]
to offer peace and redeeme the Okee." Good feeling was restored, and the savages brought the
English "venison, turkies, wild fowl, bread all that they had, singing and dancing in sign
of friendship till they departed." This fantastical account is much more readable than the
former bare narration.

The supplies which Smith brought gave great comfort to the despairing colony, which was by
this time reasonably fitted with houses. But it was not long before they again ran short of
food. In his first narrative Smith says there were some motions made for the President and
Captain Arthur to go over to England and procure a supply, but it was with much ado concluded
that the pinnace and the barge should go up the river to Powhatan to trade for corn, and the
lot fell to Smith to command the expedition. In his "General Historie" a little different complexion
is put upon this. On his return, Smith says, he suppressed an attempt to run away with the
pinnace to England. He represents that what food "he carefully provided the rest carelessly
spent," and there is probably much truth in his charges that the settlers were idle and improvident.
He says also that they were in continual broils at this time. It is in the fall of 1607, just
before his famous voyage up the Chickahominy, on which he departed December 10th--that he writes:
"The President and Captain Arthur intended not long after to have abandoned the country, which
project was curbed and suppressed by Smith. The Spaniard never more greedily desired gold than
he victual, nor his soldiers more to abandon the country than he to keep it. But finding plenty
of corn in the river of Chickahomania, where hundreds of salvages in divers places stood with
baskets expecting his coming, and now the winter approaching, the rivers became covered with
swans, geese, ducks, and cranes, that we daily feasted with good bread, Virginia peas, pumpions,
and putchamins, fish, fowls, and divers sorts of wild beasts as fat as we could eat them, so
that none of our Tuftaffaty humorists desired to go to England."

While the Chickahominy expedition was preparing, Smith made a voyage to Popohanock or Quiyoughcohanock,
as it is called on his map, a town on the south side of the river, above Jamestown. Here the
women and children fled from their homes and the natives refused to trade. They had plenty
of corn, but Smith says he had no commission to spoil them. On his return he called at Paspahegh,
a town on the north side of the James, and on the map placed higher than Popohanock, but evidently
nearer to Jamestown, as he visited it on his return. He obtained ten bushels of corn of the
churlish and treacherous natives, who closely watched and dogged the expedition.

Everything was now ready for the journey to Powhatan. Smith had the barge and eight men for
trading and discovery, and the pinnace was to follow to take the supplies at convenient landings.
On the 9th of November he set out in the barge to explore the Chickahominy, which is described
as emptying into the James at Paspahegh, eight miles above the fort. The pinnace was to ascend
the river twenty miles to Point Weanock, and to await Smith there. All the month of November
Smith toiled up and down the Chickahominy, discovering and visiting many villages, finding
the natives kindly disposed and eager to trade, and possessing abundance of corn. Notwithstanding
this abundance, many were still mutinous. At this time occurred the President's quarrel with
the blacksmith, who, for assaulting the President, was condemned to death, and released on
disclosing a conspiracy of which Captain Kendall was principal; and the latter was executed
in his place. Smith returned from a third voyage to the Chickahominy with more supplies, only
to find the matter of sending the pinnace to England still debated.

This project, by the help of Captain Martin, he again quieted and at last set forward on his
famous voyage into the country of Powhatan and Pocahontas.

VIII. THE FAMOUS CHICKAHOMINY VOYAGE

We now enter upon the most interesting episode in the life of the gallant captain, more thrilling
and not less romantic than the captivity in Turkey and the tale of the faithful love of the
fair young mistress Charatza Tragabigzanda.

Although the conduct of the lovely Charatza in despatching Smith to her cruel brother in Nalbrits,
where he led the life of a dog, was never explained, he never lost faith in her. His loyalty
to women was equal to his admiration of them, and it was bestowed without regard to race or
complexion. Nor is there any evidence that the dusky Pocahontas, who is about to appear, displaced
in his heart the image of the too partial Tragabigzanda. In regard to women, as to his own
exploits, seen in the light of memory, Smith possessed a creative imagination. He did not create
Pocahontas, as perhaps he may have created the beautiful mistress of Bashaw Bogall, but he
invested her with a romantic interest which forms a lovely halo about his own memory.

As this voyage up the Chickahominy is more fruitful in its consequences than Jason's voyage
to Colchis; as it exhibits the energy, daring, invention, and various accomplishments of Captain
Smith, as warrior, negotiator, poet, and narrator; as it describes Smith's first and only captivity
among the Indians; and as it was during this absence of four weeks from Jamestown, if ever,
that Pocahontas interposed to prevent the beating out of Smith's brains with a club, I shall
insert the account of it in full, both Smith's own varying relations of it, and such contemporary
notices of it as now come to light. It is necessary here to present several accounts, just
as they stand, and in the order in which they were written, that the reader may see for himself
how the story of Pocahontas grew to its final proportions. The real life of Pocahontas will
form the subject of another chapter.

The first of these accounts is taken from "The True Relation," written by Captain John Smith,
composed in Virginia, the earliest published work relating to the James River Colony. It covers
a period of a little more than thirteen months, from the arrival at Cape Henry on April 26,
1607, to the return of Captain Nelson in the Phoenix, June 2, 1608. The manuscript was probably
taken home by Captain Nelson, and it was published in London in 1608. Whether it was intended
for publication is doubtful; but at that time all news of the venture in Virginia was eagerly
sought, and a narrative of this importance would naturally speedily get into print.

In the several copies of it extant there are variations in the titlepage, which was changed
while the edition was being printed. In some the name of Thomas Watson is given as the author,
in others "A Gentleman of the Colony," and an apology appears signed "T. H.," for the want
of knowledge or inadvertence of attributing it to any one except Captain Smith.

There is no doubt that Smith was its author. He was still in Virginia when it was printed,
and the printers made sad work of parts of his manuscript. The question has been raised, in
view of the entire omission of the name of Pocahontas in connection with this voyage and captivity,
whether the manuscript was not cut by those who published it. The reason given for excision
is that the promoters of the Virginia scheme were anxious that nothing should appear to discourage
capitalists, or to deter emigrants, and that this story of the hostility and cruelty of Powhatan,
only averted by the tender mercy of his daughter, would have an unfortunate effect. The answer
to this is that the hostility was exhibited by the captivity and the intimation that Smith
was being fatted to be eaten, and this was permitted to stand. It is wholly improbable that
an incident so romantic, so appealing to the imagination, in an age when wonder-tales were
eagerly welcomed, and which exhibited such tender pity in the breast of a savage maiden, and
such paternal clemency in a savage chief, would have been omitted. It was calculated to lend
a lively interest to the narration, and would be invaluable as an advertisement of the adventure.

[For a full bibliographical discussion of this point the reader is referred to the reprint
of "The True Relation," by Charles Deane, Esq., Boston, 1864, the preface and notes to which
are a masterpiece of critical analysis.]

That some portions of "The True Relation" were omitted is possible. There is internal evidence
of this in the abrupt manner in which it opens, and in the absence of allusions to the discords
during the voyage and on the arrival. Captain Smith was not the man to pass over such questions
in silence, as his subsequent caustic letter sent home to the Governor and Council of Virginia
shows. And it is probable enough that the London promoters would cut out from the "Relation"
complaints and evidence of the seditions and helpless state of the colony. The narration of
the captivity is consistent as it stands, and wholly inconsistent with the Pocahontas episode.

We extract from the narrative after Smith's departure from Apocant, the highest town inhabited,
between thirty and forty miles up the river, and below Orapaks, one of Powhatan's seats, which
also appears on his map. He writes:

"Ten miles higher I discovered with the barge; in the midway a great tree hindered my passage,
which I cut in two: heere the river became narrower, 8, 9 or 10 foote at a high water, and
6 or 7 at a lowe: the stream exceeding swift, and the bottom hard channell, the ground most
part a low plaine, sandy soyle, this occasioned me to suppose it might issue from some lake
or some broad ford, for it could not be far to the head, but rather then I would endanger the
barge, yet to have beene able to resolve this doubt, and to discharge the imputating malicious
tungs, that halfe suspected I durst not for so long delaying, some of the company, as desirous
as myself, we resolved to hier a canow, and returne with the barge to Apocant, there to leave
the barge secure, and put ourselves upon the adventure: the country onely a vast and wilde
wilderness, and but only that Towne: within three or foure mile we hired a canow, and 2 Indians
to row us ye next day a fowling: having made such provision for the barge as was needfull,
I left her there to ride, with expresse charge not any to go ashore til my returne. Though
some wise men may condemn this too bould attempt of too much indiscretion, yet if they well
consider the friendship of the Indians, in conducting me, the desolatenes of the country, the
probabilitie of some lacke, and the malicious judges of my actions at home, as also to have
some matters of worth to incourage our adventurers in england, might well have caused any honest
minde to have done the like, as wel for his own discharge as for the publike good: having 2
Indians for my guide and 2 of our own company, I set forward, leaving 7 in the barge; having
discovered 20 miles further in this desart, the river stil kept his depth and bredth, but much
more combred with trees; here we went ashore (being some 12 miles higher than ye barge had
bene) to refresh our selves, during the boyling of our vituals: one of the Indians I tooke
with me, to see the nature of the soile, and to cross the boughts of the river, the other Indian
I left with M. Robbinson and Thomas Emry, with their matches light and order to discharge a
peece, for my retreat at the first sight of any Indian, but within a quarter of an houre I
heard a loud cry, and a hollowing of Indians, but no warning peece, supposing them surprised,
and that the Indians had betraid us, presently I seazed him and bound his arme fast to my hand
in a garter, with my pistoll ready bent to be revenged on him: he advised me to fly and seemed
ignorant of what was done, but as we went discoursing, I was struck with an arrow on the right
thigh, but without harme: upon this occasion I espied 2 Indians drawing their bowes, which
I prevented in discharging a french pistoll: by that I had charged again 3 or 4 more did the
'like, for the first fell downe and fled: at my discharge they did the like, my hinde I made
my barricade, who offered not to strive, 20 or 30 arrowes were shot at me but short, 3 or 4
times I had discharged my pistoll ere the king of Pamauck called Opeckakenough with 200 men,
environed me, each drawing their bowe, which done they laid them upon the ground, yet without
shot, my hinde treated betwixt them and me of conditions of peace, he discovered me to be the
captaine, my request was to retire to ye boate, they demanded my armes, the rest they saide
were slaine, onely me they would reserve: the Indian importuned me not to shoot. In retiring
being in the midst of a low quagmire, and minding them more than my steps, I stept fast into
the quagmire, and also the Indian in drawing me forth: thus surprised, I resolved to trie their
mercies, my armes I caste from me, till which none durst approch me: being ceazed on me, they
drew me out and led me to the King, I presented him with a compasse diall, describing by my
best meanes the use thereof, whereat he so amazedly admired, as he suffered me to proceed in
a discourse of the roundnes of the earth, the course of the sunne, moone, starres and plannets,
with kinde speeches and bread he requited me, conducting me where the canow lay and John Robinson
slaine, with 20 or 30 arrowes in him. By this the great King hath foure or five houses, each
containing fourscore or an hundred foote in length, pleasantly seated upon an high sandy hill,
from whence you may see westerly a goodly low country, the river before the which his crooked
course causeth many great Marshes of exceeding good ground. An hundred houses, and many large
plaines are here together inhabited, more abundance of fish and fowle, and a pleasanter seat
cannot be imagined: the King with fortie bowmen to guard me, intreated me to discharge my Pistoll,
which they there presented me with a mark at six score to strike therewith but to spoil the
practice I broke the cocke, whereat they were much discontented though a chaunce supposed.
From hence this kind King conducted me to a place called Topahanocke, a kingdome upon another
river northward; the cause of this was, that the yeare before, a shippe had beene in the River
of Pamunke, who having been kindly entertained by Powhatan their Emperour, they returned thence,
and discovered the River of Topahanocke, where being received with like kindnesse, yet he slue
the King, and tooke of his people, and they supposed I were bee, but the people reported him
a great man that was Captaine, and using mee kindly, the next day we departed. This River of
Topahanock, seemeth in breadth not much lesse than that we dwell upon. At the mouth of the
River is a Countrey called Cuttata women, upwards is Marraugh tacum Tapohanock, Apparnatuck,
and Nantaugs tacum, at Topmanahocks, the head issuing from many Mountains, the next night I
lodged at a hunting town of Powhatam's, and the next day arrived at Waranacomoco upon the river
of Parnauncke, where the great king is resident: by the way we passed by the top of another
little river, which is betwixt the two called Payankatank. The most of this country though
Desert, yet exceeding fertil, good timber, most hils and in dales, in each valley a cristall
spring.

"Arriving at Weramacomoco, their Emperour, proudly lying upon a Bedstead a foote high upon
tenne or twelve Mattes, richly hung with manie Chaynes of great Pearles about his necke, and
covered with a great covering of Rahaughcums: At heade sat a woman, at his feete another, on
each side sitting upon a Matte upon the ground were raunged his chiefe men on each side the
fire, tenne in a ranke and behinde them as many yong women, each a great Chaine of white Beades
over their shoulders: their heades painted in redde and with such a grave and Majeslicall countenance,
as drove me into admiration to see such state in a naked Salvage, bee kindlv welcomed me with
good wordes, and great Platters of sundrie victuals, asiuring mee his friendship and my libertie
within foure dayes, bee much delighted in Opechan Conough's relation of what I had described
to him, and oft examined me upon the same. Hee asked me the cause of our comming, I tolde him
being in fight with the Spaniards our enemie, being over powred, neare put to retreat, and
by extreme weather put to this shore, where landing at Chesipiack, the people shot us, but
at Kequoughtan they kindly used us, wee by signes demaunded fresh water, they described us
up the River was all fresh water, at Paspahegh, also they kindly used us, our Pinnasse being
leake wee were inforced to stay to mend her, till Captain Newport my father came to conduct
us away. He demaunded why we went further with our Boate, I tolde him, in that I would have
occasion to talke of the backe Sea, that on the other side the maine, where was salt water,
my father had a childe slaine, which we supposed Monocan his enemie, whose death we intended
to revenge. After good deliberation, hee began to describe me the countreys beyond the Falles,
with many of the rest, confirming what not only Opechancanoyes, and an Indian which had been
prisoner to Pewhatan had before tolde mee, but some called it five days, some sixe, some eight,
where the sayde water dashed amongst many stones and rocks, each storme which caused oft tymes
the heade of the River to bee brackish: Anchanachuck he described to bee the people that had
slaine my brother, whose death hee would revenge. Hee described also upon the same Sea, a mighty
nation called Pocoughtronack, a fierce nation that did eate men and warred with the people
of Moyaoncer, and Pataromerke, Nations upon the toppe of the heade of the Bay, under his territories,
where the yeare before they had slain an hundred, he signified their crownes were shaven, long
haire in the necke, tied on a knot, Swords like Pollaxes.

"Beyond them he described people with short Coates, and Sleeves to the Elbowes, that passed
that way in Shippes like ours. Many Kingdomes hee described mee to the heade of the Bay, which
seemed to bee a mightie River, issuing from mightie mountaines, betwixt the two seas; the people
clothed at Ocamahowan. He also confirmed, and the Southerly Countries also, as the rest, that
reported us to be within a day and a halfe of Mangoge, two dayes of Chawwonock, 6 from Roonock,
to the South part of the backe sea: he described a countrie called Anone, where they have abundance
of Brasse, and houses walled as ours. I requited his discourse, seeing what pride he had in
his great and spacious Dominions, seeing that all hee knewe were under his Territories.

"In describing to him the territories of Europe which was subject to our great King whose subject
I was, the innumerable multitude of his ships, I gave him to understand the noyse of Trumpets
and terrible manner of fighting were under Captain Newport my father, whom I intituled the
Meworames which they call King of all the waters, at his greatnesse bee admired and not a little
feared; he desired mee to forsake Paspahegh, and to live with him upon his River, a countrie
called Capa Howasicke; he promised to give me corne, venison, or what I wanted to feede us,
Hatchets and Copper wee should make him, and none should disturbe us. This request I promised
to performe: and thus having with all the kindnes hee could devise, sought to content me, he
sent me home with 4 men, one that usually carried my Gonne and Knapsacke after me, two other
loded with bread, and one to accompanie me."

The next extract in regard to this voyage is from President Wingfield's "Discourse of Virginia,"
which appears partly in the form of a diary, but was probably drawn up or at least finished
shortly after Wingfield's return to London in May, 1608. He was in Jamestown when Smith returned
from his captivity, and would be likely to allude to the romantic story of Pocahontas if Smith
had told it on his escape. We quote:

"Decem.--The 10th of December, Mr. Smyth went up the ryver of the Chechohomynies to trade for
corne; he was desirous to see the heade of that river; and, when it was not passible with the
shallop, he hired a cannow and an Indian to carry him up further. The river the higher grew
worse and worse. Then hee went on shoare with his guide, and left Robinson and Emmery, and
twoe of our Men, in the cannow; which were presently slayne by the Indians, Pamaonke's men,
and hee himself taken prysoner, and, by the means of his guide, his lief was saved; and Pamaonche,
haveing him prisoner, carryed him to his neybors wyroances, to see if any of them knew him
for one of those which had bene, some two or three eeres before us, in a river amongst them
Northward, and taken awaie some Indians from them by force. At last he brought him to the great
Powaton (of whome before wee had no knowledg), who sent him home to our towne the 8th of January."

The next contemporary document to which we have occasion to refer is Smith's Letter to the
Treasurer and Council of Virginia in England, written in Virginia after the arrival of Newport
there in September, 1608, and probably sent home by him near the close of that year. In this
there is no occasion for a reference to Powhatan or his daughter, but he says in it: "I have
sent you this Mappe of the Bay and Rivers, with an annexed Relation of the Countryes and Nations
that inhabit them as you may see at large." This is doubtless the "Map of Virginia," with a
description of the country, published some two or three years after Smith's return to England,
at Oxford, 1612. It is a description of the country and people, and contains little narrative.
But with this was published, as an appendix, an account of the proceedings of the Virginia
colonists from 1606 to 1612, taken out of the writings of Thomas Studley and several others
who had been residents in Virginia. These several discourses were carefully edited by William
Symonds, a doctor of divinity and a man of learning and repute, evidently at the request of
Smith. To the end of the volume Dr. Symonds appends a note addressed to Smith, saying: "I return
you the fruit of my labors, as Mr. Cranshaw requested me, which I bestowed in reading the discourses
and hearing the relations of such as have walked and observed the land of Virginia with you."
These narratives by Smith's companions, which he made a part of his Oxford book, and which
passed under his eye and had his approval, are uniformly not only friendly to him, but eulogistic
of him, and probably omit no incident known to the writers which would do him honor or add
interest to him as a knight of romance. Nor does it seem probable that Smith himself would
have omitted to mention the dramatic scene of the prevented execution if it had occurred to
him. If there had been a reason in the minds of others in 1608 why it should not appear in
the "True Relation," that reason did not exist for Smith at this time, when the discords and
discouragements of the colony were fully known. And by this time the young girl Pocahontas
had become well known to the colonists at Jamestown. The account of this Chickahominy voyage
given in this volume, published in 1612, is signed by Thomas Studley, and is as follows:

"The next voyage he proceeded so farre that with much labour by cutting of trees in sunder
he made his passage, but when his Barge could passe no farther, he left her in a broad bay
out of danger of shot, commanding none should go ashore till his returne; himselfe with 2 English
and two Salvages went up higher in a Canowe, but he was not long absent, but his men went ashore,
whose want of government gave both occasion and opportunity to the Salvages to surprise one
George Casson, and much failed not to have cut of the boat and all the rest. Smith little dreaming
of that accident, being got to the marshes at the river's head, 20 miles in the desert, had
his 2 men slaine (as is supposed) sleeping by the Canowe, whilst himselfe by fowling sought
them victual, who finding he was beset by 200 Salvages, 2 of them he slew, stil defending himselfe
with the aid of a Salvage his guid (whome bee bound to his arme and used as his buckler), till
at last slipping into a bogmire they tooke him prisoner: when this news came to the fort much
was their sorrow for his losse, fewe expecting what ensued. A month those Barbarians kept him
prisoner, many strange triumphs and conjurations they made of him, yet he so demeaned himselfe
amongst them, as he not only diverted them from surprising the Fort, but procured his own liberty,
and got himselfe and his company such estimation amongst them, that those Salvages admired
him as a demi-God. So returning safe to the Fort, once more staied the pinnas her flight for
England, which til his returne could not set saile, so extreme was the weather and so great
the frost."

The first allusion to the salvation of Captain Smith by Pocahontas occurs in a letter or "little
booke" which he wrote to Queen Anne in 1616, about the time of the arrival in England of the
Indian Princess, who was then called the Lady Rebecca, and was wife of John Rolfe, by whom
she had a son, who accompanied them. Pocahontas had by this time become a person of some importance.
Her friendship had been of substantial service to the colony. Smith had acknowledged this in
his "True Relation," where he referred to her as the "nonpareil" of Virginia. He was kind-hearted
and naturally magnanimous, and would take some pains to do the Indian convert a favor, even
to the invention of an incident that would make her attractive. To be sure, he was vain as
well as inventive, and here was an opportunity to attract the attention of his sovereign and
increase his own importance by connecting his name with hers in a romantic manner. Still, we
believe that the main motive that dictated this epistle was kindness to Pocahontas. The sentence
that refers to her heroic act is this: "After some six weeks [he was absent only four weeks]
fatting amongst those Salvage Countries, at the minute of my execution she hazarded the beating
out of her own braines to save mine, and not only that, but so prevailed with her father [of
whom he says, in a previous paragraph, 'I received from this great Salvage exceeding great
courtesie'], that I was safely conducted to Jamestown."

This guarded allusion to the rescue stood for all known account of it, except a brief reference
to it in his "New England's Trials" of 1622, until the appearance of Smith's "General Historie"
in London, 1624. In the first edition of "New England's Trials," 1620, there is no reference
to it. In the enlarged edition of 1622, Smith gives a new version to his capture, as resulting
from "the folly of them that fled," and says: "God made Pocahontas, the King's daughter the
means to deliver me."

The "General Historie" was compiled--as was the custom in making up such books at the time
from a great variety of sources. Such parts of it as are not written by Smith--and these constitute
a considerable portion of the history--bear marks here and there of his touch. It begins with
his description of Virginia, which appeared in the Oxford tract of 1612; following this are
the several narratives by his comrades, which formed the appendix of that tract. The one that
concerns us here is that already quoted, signed Thomas Studley. It is reproduced here as "written
by Thomas Studley, the first Cape Merchant in Virginia, Robert Fenton, Edward Harrington, and
I. S." [John Smith]. It is, however, considerably extended, and into it is interjected a detailed
account of the captivity and the story of the stones, the clubs, and the saved brains.

It is worthy of special note that the "True Relation" is not incorporated in the "General Historie."
This is the more remarkable because it was an original statement, written when the occurrences
it describes were fresh, and is much more in detail regarding many things that happened during
the period it covered than the narratives that Smith uses in the "General Historie." It was
his habit to use over and over again his own publications. Was this discarded because it contradicted
the Pocahontas story--because that story could not be fitted into it as it could be into the
Studley relation?

It should be added, also, that Purchas printed an abstract of the Oxford tract in his "Pilgrimage,"
in 1613, from material furnished him by Smith. The Oxford tract was also republished by Purchas
in his "Pilgrimes," extended by new matter in manuscript supplied by Smith. The "Pilgrimes"
did not appear till 1625, a year after the "General Historie," but was in preparation long
before. The Pocahontas legend appears in the "Pilgrimes," but not in the earlier "Pilgrimage."

We have before had occasion to remark that Smith's memory had the peculiarity of growing stronger
and more minute in details the further he was removed in point of time from any event he describes.
The revamped narrative is worth quoting in full for other reasons. It exhibits Smith's skill
as a writer and his capacity for rising into poetic moods. When this newes came to Jamestowne,
much was their sorrow for his losse, fewe expecting what ensued. Sixe or seven weekes those
Barbarians kept him prisoner, many strange triumphes and conjurations they made of him, yet
hee so demeaned himselfe amongst them, as he not onely diverted them from surprising the Fort,
but procured his owne libertie, and got himself and his company such estimation amongst them,
that those Salvages admired him more than their owne Quiyouckosucks. The manner how they used
and delivered him, is as followeth.

"The Salvages having drawne from George Cassen whether Captaine Smith was gone, prosecuting
that opportunity they followed him with 300 bowmen, conducted by the King of Pamaunkee, who
in divisions searching the turnings of the river, found Robinson and Entry by the fireside,
those they shot full of arrowes and slew. Then finding the Captaine as is said, that used the
Salvage that was his guide as his shield (three of them being slaine and divers others so gauld)
all the rest would not come neere him. Thinking thus to have returned to his boat, regarding
them, as he marched, more then his way, slipped up to the middle in an oasie creeke and his
Salvage with him, yet durst they not come to him till being neere dead with cold, he threw
away his armes. Then according to their composition they drew him forth and led him to the
fire, where his men were slaine. Diligently they chafed his benumbed limbs. He demanding for
their Captaine, they shewed him Opechankanough, King of Pamaunkee, to whom he gave a round
Ivory double compass Dyall. Much they marvailed at the playing of the Fly and Needle, which
they could see so plainly, and yet not touch it, because of the glass that covered them. But
when he demonstrated by that Globe-like Jewell, the roundnesse of the earth and skies, the
spheare of the Sunne, Moone, and Starres, and how the Sunne did chase the night round about
the world continually: the greatnesse of the Land and Sea, the diversitie of Nations, varietie
of Complexions, and how we were to them Antipodes, and many other such like matters, they all
stood as amazed with admiration. Notwithstanding within an houre after they tyed him to a tree,
and as many as could stand about him prepared to shoot him, but the King holding up the Compass
in his hand, they all laid downe their Bowes and Arrowes, and in a triumphant manner led him
to Orapaks, where he was after their manner kindly feasted and well used.

"Their order in conducting him was thus: Drawing themselves all in fyle, the King in the middest
had all their Peeces and Swords borne before him. Captaine Smith was led after him by three
great Salvages, holding him fast by each arme: and on each side six went in fyle with their
arrowes nocked. But arriving at the Towne (which was but onely thirtie or fortie hunting houses
made of Mats, which they remove as they please, as we our tents) all the women and children
staring to behold him, the souldiers first all in file performe the forme of a Bissom so well
as could be: and on each flanke, officers as Serieants to see them keepe their orders. A good
time they continued this exercise, and then cast themselves in a ring, dauncing in such severall
Postures, and singing and yelling out such hellish notes and screeches: being strangely painted,
every one his quiver of arrowes, and at his backe a club: on his arme a Fox or an Otters skinne,
or some such matter for his vambrace: their heads and shoulders painted red, with oyle and
Pocones mingled together, which Scarlet like colour made an exceeding handsome shew, his Bow
in his hand, and the skinne of a Bird with her wings abroad dryed, tyed on his head, a peece
of copper, a white shell, a long feather, with a small rattle growing at the tayles of their
snaks tyed to it, or some such like toy. All this time Smith and the King stood in the middest
guarded, as before is said, and after three dances they all departed. Smith they conducted
to a long house, where thirtie or fortie tall fellowes did guard him, and ere long more bread
and venison were brought him then would have served twentie men. I thinke his stomacke at that
time was not very good; what he left they put in baskets and tyed over his head. About midnight
they set the meat again before him, all this time not one of them would eat a bit with him,
till the next morning they brought him as much more, and then did they eate all the old, and
reserved the new as they had done the other, which made him think they would fat him to eat
him. Yet in this desperate estate to defend him from the cold, one Maocassater brought him
his gowne, in requitall of some beads and toyes Smith had given him at his first arrival in
Firginia.

"Two days a man would have slaine him (but that the guard prevented it) for the death of his
sonne, to whom they conducted him to recover the poore man then breathing his last. Smith told
them that at James towne he had a water would doe it if they would let him fetch it, but they
would not permit that: but made all the preparations they could to assault James towne, craving
his advice, and for recompence he should have life, libertie, land, and women. In part of a
Table booke he writ his mind to them at the Fort, what was intended, how they should follow
that direction to affright the messengers, and without fayle send him such things as he writ
for. And an Inventory with them. The difficultie and danger he told the Salvaves, of the Mines,
great gunnes, and other Engins, exceedingly affrighted them, yet according to his request they
went to James towne in as bitter weather as could be of frost and snow, and within three days
returned with an answer.

"But when they came to James towne, seeing men sally out as he had told them they would, they
fled: yet in the night they came again to the same place where he had told them they should
receive an answer, and such things as he had promised them, which they found accordingly, and
with which they returned with no small expedition, to the wonder of them all that heard it,
that he could either divine or the paper could speake. With most strange gestures and passions
he began his invocation, and environed the fire with a circle of meale; which done three more
such like devils came rushing in with the like antique tricks, painted halfe blacke, halfe
red: but all their eyes were painted white, and some red stroakes like Mutchato's along their
cheekes: round about him those fiends daunced a pretty while, and then came in three more as
ugly as the rest; with red eyes and stroakes over their blacke faces, at last they all sat
downe right against him; three of them on the one hand of the chiefe Priest, and three on the
other. Then all with their rattles began a song, which ended, the chiefe Priest layd downe
five wheat cornes: then strayning his arms and hands with such violence that he sweat, and
his veynes swelled, he began a short Oration: at the conclusion they all gave a short groane;
and then layd downe three graines more. After that began their song againe, and then another
Oration, ever laying down so many cornes as before, til they had twice incirculed the fire;
that done they tooke a bunch of little stickes prepared for that purpose, continuing still
their devotion, and at the end of every song and Oration they layd downe a sticke betwixt the
divisions of Corne. Til night, neither he nor they did either eate or drinke, and then they
feasted merrily, and with the best provisions they could make. Three dayes they used this Ceremony:
the meaning whereof they told him was to know if he intended them well or no. The circle of
meale signified their Country, the circles of corne the bounds of the Sea, and the stickes
his Country. They imagined the world to be flat and round, like a trencher, and they in the
middest. After this they brought him a bagge of gunpowder, which they carefully preserved till
the next spring, to plant as they did their corne, because they would be acquainted with the
nature of that seede. Opitchapam, the King's brother, invited him to his house, where with
many platters of bread, foule, and wild beasts, as did environ him, he bid him wellcome: but
not any of them would eate a bit with him, but put up all the remainder in Baskets. At his
returne to Opechancanoughs, all the King's women and their children flocked about him for their
parts, as a due by Custome, to be merry with such fragments.

"But his waking mind in hydeous dreames did oft see wondrous shapes Of bodies strange, and
huge in growth, and of stupendious makes."

"At last they brought him to Meronocomoco, where was Powhatan their Emperor. Here more than
two hundred of those grim Courtiers stood wondering at him, as he had beene a monster, till
Powhatan and his trayne had put themselves in their greatest braveries. Before a fire upon
a seat like a bedstead, he sat covered with a great robe, made of Rarowcun skinnes and all
the tayles hanging by. On either hand did sit a young wench of sixteen or eighteen years, and
along on each side the house, two rowes of men, and behind them as many women, with all their
heads and shoulders painted red; many of their heads bedecked with the white downe of Birds;
but everyone with something: and a great chayne of white beads about their necks. At his entrance
before the King, all the people gave a great shout. The Queene of Appamatuck was appointed
to bring him water to wash his hands, and another brought him a bunch of feathers, instead
of a Towell to dry them: having feasted him after their best barbarous manner they could. A
long consultation was held, but the conclusion was two great stones were brought before Powhatan;
then as many as could layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and thereon laid his head, and
being ready with their clubs, to beate out his braines. Pocahontas, the King's dearest daughter,
when no entreaty could prevaile, got his head in her armes, and laid her owne upon his to save
him from death: whereat the Emperour was contented he should live to make him hatchets, and
her bells, beads, and copper: for they thought him as well of all occupations as themselves.
For the King himselfe will make his owne robes, shooes, bowes, arrowes, pots, plant, hunt,
or doe any thing so well as the rest.

     'They say he bore a pleasant shew,
     But sure his heart was sad
     For who can pleasant be, and rest,
     That lives in feare and dread.
     And having life suspected, doth
     If still suspected lead.'

"Two days after, Powhatan having disguised himselfe in the most fearfullest manner he could,
caused Capt. Smith to be brought forth to a great house in the woods and there upon a mat by
the fire to be left alone. Not long after from behinde a mat that divided the house, was made
the most dolefullest noyse he ever heard: then Powhatan more like a devill than a man with
some two hundred more as blacke as himseffe, came unto him and told him now they were friends,
and presently he should goe to James town, to send him two great gunnes, and a gryndstone,
for which he would give him the country of Capahowojick, and for ever esteeme him as his sonn
Nantaquoud. So to James towne with 12 guides Powhatan sent him. That night they quartered in
the woods, he still expecting (as he had done all this long time of his imprisonment) every
houre to be put to one death or other; for all their feasting. But almightie God (by his divine
providence) had mollified the hearts of those sterne Barbarians with compassion. The next morning
betimes they came to the Fort, where Smith having used the salvages with what kindnesse he
could, he shewed Rawhunt, Powhatan's trusty servant, two demiculverings and a millstone to
carry Powhatan; they found them somewhat too heavie; but when they did see him discharge them,
being loaded with stones, among the boughs of a great tree loaded with Isickles, the yce and
branches came so tumbling downe, that the poore Salvages ran away halfe dead with feare. But
at last we regained some conference with them and gave them such toys: and sent to Powhatan,
his women, and children such presents, and gave them in generall full content. Now ever once
in four or five dayes, Pocahontas with her attendants, brought him so much provision, that
saved many of their lives, that els for all this had starved with hunger.

   'Thus from numbe death our good God sent reliefe,
   The sweete asswager of all other griefe.'

"His relation of the plenty he had scene, especially at Werawocomoco, and of the state and
bountie of Powhatan (which till that time was unknowne), so revived their dead spirits (especially
the love of Pocahontas) as all men's feare was abandoned."

We should like to think original, in the above, the fine passage, in which Smith, by means
of a simple compass dial, demonstrated the roundness of the earth, and skies, the sphere of
the sun, moon, and stars, and how the sun did chase the night round about the world continually;
the greatness of the land and sea, the diversity of nations, variety of complexions, and how
we were to them antipodes, so that the Indians stood amazed with admiration.

Captain Smith up to his middle in a Chickahominy swamp, discoursing on these high themes to
a Pamunkey Indian, of whose language Smith was wholly ignorant, and who did not understand
a word of English, is much more heroic, considering the adverse circumstances, and appeals
more to the imagination, than the long-haired Iopas singing the song of Atlas, at the banquet
given to AEneas, where Trojans and Tyrians drained the flowing bumpers while Dido drank long
draughts of love. Did Smith, when he was in the neighborhood of Carthage pick up some such
literal translations of the song of Atlas' as this:

"He sang the wandering moon, and the labors of the Sun; From whence the race of men and flocks;
whence rain and lightning; Of Arcturus, the rainy Hyades, and the twin Triones; Why the winter
suns hasten so much to touch themselves in the ocean, And what delay retards the slow nights."

The scene of the rescue only occupies seven lines and the reader feels that, after all, Smith
has not done full justice to it. We cannot, therefore, better conclude this romantic episode
than by quoting the description of it given with an elaboration of language that must be, pleasing
to the shade of Smith, by John Burke in his History of Virginia:

"Two large stones were brought in, and placed at the feet of the emperor; and on them was laid
the head of the prisoner; next a large club was brought in, with which Powhatan, for whom,
out of respect, was reserved this honor, prepared to crush the head of his captive. The assembly
looked on with sensations of awe, probably not unmixed with pity for the fate of an enemy whose
bravery had commanded their admiration, and in whose misfortunes their hatred was possibly
forgotten.

"The fatal club was uplifted: the breasts of the company already by anticipation felt the dreadful
crash, which was to bereave the wretched victim of life: when the young and beautiful Pocahontas,
the beloved daughter of the emperor, with a shriek of terror and agony threw herself on the
body of Smith; Her hair was loose, and her eyes streaming with tears, while her whole manner
bespoke the deep distress and agony of her bosom. She cast a beseeching look at her furious
and astonished father, deprecating his wrath, and imploring his pity and the life of his prisoner,
with all the eloquence of mute but impassioned sorrow.

"The remainder of this scene is honorable to Powhatan. It will remain a lasting monument, that
tho' different principles of action, and the influence of custom, have given to the manners
and opinions of this people an appearance neither amiable nor virtuous, they still retain the
noblest property of human character, the touch of pity and the feeling of humanity.

"The club of the emperor was still uplifted; but pity had touched his bosom, and his eye was
every moment losing its fierceness; he looked around to collect his fortitude, or perhaps to
find an excuse for his weakness in the faces of his attendants. But every eye was suffused
with the sweetly contagious softness. The generous savage no longer hesitated. The compassion
of the rude state is neither ostentatious nor dilating: nor does it insult its object by the
exaction of impossible conditions. Powhatan lifted his grateful and delighted daughter, and
the captive, scarcely yet assured of safety, from the earth...."

"The character of this interesting woman, as it stands in the concurrent accounts of all our
historians, is not, it is with confidence affirmed, surpassed by any in the whole range of
history; and for those qualities more especially which do honor to our nature--an humane and
feeling heart, an ardor and unshaken constancy in her attachments--she stands almost without
a rival.

"At the first appearance of the Europeans her young heart was impressed with admiration of
the persons and manners of the strangers; but it is not during their prosperity that she displays
her attachment. She is not influenced by awe of their greatness, or fear of their resentment,
in the assistance she affords them. It was during their severest distresses, when their most
celebrated chief was a captive in their hands, and was dragged through the country as a spectacle
for the sport and derision of their people, that she places herself between him and destruction.

"The spectacle of Pocahontas in an attitude of entreaty, with her hair loose, and her eyes
streaming with tears, supplicating with her enraged father for the life of Captain Smith when
he was about to crush the head of his prostrate victim with a club, is a situation equal to
the genius of Raphael. And when the royal savage directs his ferocious glance for a moment
from his victim to reprove his weeping daughter, when softened by her distress his eye loses
its fierceness, and he gives his captive to her tears, the painter will discover a new occasion
for exercising his talents."

The painters have availed themselves of this opportunity. In one picture Smith is represented
stiffly extended on the greensward (of the woods), his head resting on a stone, appropriately
clothed in a dresscoat, knee-breeches, and silk stockings; while Powhatan and the other savages
stand ready for murder, in full-dress parade costume; and Pocahontas, a full-grown woman, with
long, disheveled hair, in the sentimental dress and attitude of a Letitia E. Landon of the
period, is about to cast herself upon the imperiled and well-dressed Captain.

Must we, then, give up the legend altogether, on account of the exaggerations that have grown
up about it, our suspicion of the creative memory of Smith, and the lack of all contemporary
allusion to it? It is a pity to destroy any pleasing story of the past, and especially to discharge
our hard struggle for a foothold on this continent of the few elements of romance. If we can
find no evidence of its truth that stands the test of fair criticism, we may at least believe
that it had some slight basis on which to rest. It is not at all improbable that Pocahontas,
who was at that time a precocious maid of perhaps twelve or thirteen years of age (although
Smith mentions her as a child of ten years old when she came to the camp after his release),
was touched with compassion for the captive, and did influence her father to treat him kindly.

IX. SMITH'S WAY WITH THE INDIANS

As we are not endeavoring to write the early history of Virginia, but only to trace Smith's
share in it, we proceed with his exploits after the arrival of the first supply, consisting
of near a hundred men, in two ships, one commanded by Captain Newport and the other by Captain
Francis Nelson. The latter, when in sight of Cape Henry, was driven by a storm back to the
West Indies, and did not arrive at James River with his vessel, the Phoenix, till after the
departure of Newport for England with his load of "golddust," and Master Wingfield and Captain
Arthur.

In his "True Relation," Smith gives some account of his exploration of the Pamunkey River,
which he sometimes calls the "Youghtamand," upon which, where the water is salt, is the town
of Werowocomoco. It can serve no purpose in elucidating the character of our hero to attempt
to identify all the places he visited.

It was at Werowocomoco that Smith observed certain conjurations of the medicine men, which
he supposed had reference to his fate. From ten o'clock in the morning till six at night, seven
of the savages, with rattles in their hands, sang and danced about the fire, laying down grains
of corn in circles, and with vehement actions, casting cakes of deer suet, deer, and tobacco
into the fire, howling without ceasing. One of them was "disfigured with a great skin, his
head hung around with little skins of weasels and other vermin, with a crownlet of feathers
on his head, painted as ugly as the devil." So fat they fed him that he much doubted they intended
to sacrifice him to the Quiyoughquosicke, which is a superior power they worship: a more uglier
thing cannot be described. These savages buried their dead with great sorrow and weeping, and
they acknowledge no resurrection. Tobacco they offer to the water to secure a good passage
in foul weather. The descent of the crown is to the first heirs of the king's sisters, "for
the kings have as many women as they will, the subjects two, and most but one."

After Smith's return, as we have read, he was saved from a plot to take his life by the timely
arrival of Captain Newport. Somewhere about this time the great fire occurred. Smith was now
one of the Council; Martin and Matthew Scrivener, just named, were also councilors. Ratcliffe
was still President. The savages, owing to their acquaintance with and confidence in Captain
Smith, sent in abundance of provision. Powhatan sent once or twice a week "deer, bread, raugroughcuns
(probably not to be confounded with the rahaughcuns [raccoons] spoken of before, but probably
'rawcomens,' mentioned in the Description of Virginia), half for Smith, and half for his father,
Captain Newport." Smith had, in his intercourse with the natives, extolled the greatness of
Newport, so that they conceived him to be the chief and all the rest his children, and regarded
him as an oracle, if not a god.

