VII

ITALY, SICILY, AND GREECE

Part One

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY NEW YORK AND LONDON COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY [Printed
in the United States of America]

INTRODUCTION TO VOLUMES VII AND VIII

Italy, Sicily and Greece

Tourists in great numbers now go to Italy by steamers that have Naples and Genoa for ports.
By the fast Channel steamers, however, touching at Cherbourg and Havre, one may make the trip
in less time (rail journey included).

At least four civilizations, and probably five, have dominated Italy; together they cover a
period of more than 3,000 years--Pelasgian, Etruscan, Greek, Roman, Italian. Of these the Pelasgian
is, in the main, legendary. Next came the Etruscan. How old that civilization is no man knows,
but its beginnings date from at least 1000 B.C.--that is, earlier than Homer's writings, and
earlier by nearly three centuries than the wall built by Romulus around Rome. The Etruscan
state was a federation of twelve cities, embracing a large part of central and northern Italy--from
near Naples as far north perhaps as Milan and the great Lombard plain. Etruscans thus dominated
the largest, and certainly the fairest, parts of Italy. Before Rome was founded, the Etruscan
cities were populous and opulent commonwealths. Together they formed one of the great naval
powers of the Mediterranean. Of their civilization, we have abundant knowledge from architectural
remains, and, from thousands of inscriptions still extant. Cortona was one of their oldest
towns. "Ere Troy itself arose, Cortona was."

After the Etruscans, came Greeks, who made flourishing settlements in southern Italy, the chief
of which was Paestum, founded not later than 600 B.C. Stupendous ruins survive at Paestum;
few more interesting ones have come down to us from the world of ancient Hellas. The oldest
dates from about 570 B.C. Here was once the most fertile and beautiful part of Italy, celebrated
for its flowers so that Virgil praised them. It is now a lonely and forsaken land, forbidding
and malarious. Once thickly populated, it has become scarcely more than a haunt of buffalos
and peasants, who wander indifferent among these colossal remains of a vanished race. These,
however, are not the civilizations that do most attract tourists to Italy, but the remains
found there of ancient Rome. Of that empire all modern men are heirs--heirs of her marvelous
political structure, of her social and industrial laws.

Last of these five civilizations is the Italian, the beginnings of which date from Theodoric
the Goth, who in the fifth century set up a kingdom independent of Rome; but Gothic rule was
of short life, and then came the Lombards, who for two hundred years were dominant in northern
and central parts, or until Charlemagne grasped their tottering kingdom and put on their famous
Iron Crown. In the south Charlemagne's empire never flourished. That part of Italy was for
centuries the prey of Saracens, Magyars and Scandinavians. From these events emerged modern
Italy--the rise of her vigorous republics, Pisa, Genoa, Florence, Venice; the dawn, meridian
splendor and decline of her great schools of sculpture, painting and architecture, the power
and beauty of which have held the world in subjection; her literature, to which also the world
has become a willing captive; her splendid municipal spirit; a Church, whose influence has
circled the globe, and in which historians, in a spiritual sense, have seen a survival of Imperial
Rome. But here are tales that every schoolboy hears.

Sicily is reached in a night by steamer from Naples to Palermo, or the tourist may go by train
from Naples to Reggio, and thence by ferry across the strait to Messina. Its earliest people
were contemporaries of the Etruscans. Phoenicians also made settlements there, as they did
in many parts of the Mediterranean, but these were purely commercial enterprises. Real civilization
in Sicily dates from neither of those races, but from Dorian and Ionic Greeks, who came perhaps
as early as the founding of Rome--that is, in the seventh or eighth century B.C. The great
cities of the Sicilian Greeks were Syracuse, Segesta and Girgenti, where still survive colossal
remains of their genius. In military and political senses, the island for 3,000 years has been
overrun, plundered and torn asunder by every race known to Mediterranean waters. Beside those
already named, are Carthaginians under Hannibal, Vandals under Genseric, Goths under Theodoric,
Byzantines under Belisarius, Saracens from Asia Minor, Normans under Robert Guiscard, German
emperors of the thirteenth century, French Angevine princes (in whose time came the Sicilian
Vespers), Spaniards of the house of Aragon, French under Napoleon, Austrians of the nineteenth
century, and then--that glorious day when Garibaldi transferred it to the victorious Sardinian
king.

The tourist who seeks Greece from northern Europe may go from Trieste by steamer along the
Dalmatian coast (in itself a trip of fine surprizes), to Cattaro and Corfu, transferring to
another steamer for the Piræus, the port of Athens; or from Italy by steamer direct from Brindisi,
the ancient Brundusium, whence sailed all Roman expeditions to the East, and where in retirement
once dwelt Cicero. No writer has known where to date the beginnings of civilization in Greece,
but with Mycenæ, Tiryns, and the Minoan palace of Crete laid bare, antiquarians have pointed
the way to dates far older than anything before recorded. The palace of Minos is ancient enough
to make the Homeric age seem modern. With the Dorian invasion of Greece about 1000 B.C., begins
that Greek civilization of which we have so much authentic knowledge. Dorian influence was
confined largely to Sparta, but it spread to many Greek colonies in the central Mediterranean
and in the Levant. It became a powerful influence, alike in art, in domestic life, and in political
supremacy. One of its noblest achievements was its help in keeping out the Persian, and another
in supplanting in the Mediterranean the commercial rule of Phoenicians. Attica and Sparta became
world-famous cities, with stupendous achievements in every domain of human art and human efficiency.
The colossal debt all Europe and all America owe them, is known to everyone who has ever been
to school.

                                                              F. W. H.

  CONTENTS OF VOLUME VII

  Italy, Sicily, and Greece--Part One

  INTRODUCTION TO VOLS. VII AND VIII--By the Editor.

  I--ROME
                                                                    PAGE
  FIRST DAYS IN THE ETERNAL CITY--By Johann
  Wolfgang von Goethe                                                  1

  THE ANTIQUITIES--By Joseph Addison                                  10

  THE PALACE OF THE CÆSARS--By Rodolfo
  Lanciani                                                            17

  THE COLISEUM--By George S. Hillard                                  24

  THE PANTHEON--By George S. Hillard                                  29

  HADRIAN'S TOMB--By Rodolfo Lanciani                                 32

  TRAJAN'S FORUM--By Francis Wey                                      35

  THE BATHS OF CARACALLA--By Hippolyte
  Adolphe Taine                                                       37

  THE AQUEDUCT BUILDERS--By Rodolfo Lanciani                          41

  THE QUARRIES AND BRICKS OF THE ANCIENT
  CITY--By Rodolfo Lanciani                                           45

  PALM SUNDAY IN ST. PETER--By Grace
  Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott)                                         53

  THE ELECTION OF A POPE--By Cardinal Wiseman                         55

  AN AUDIENCE WITH PIUS X.--By Mary Emogene
  Hazeltine                                                           59

  THE ASCENT OF THE DOME OF ST. PETER'S--By
  George S. Hillard                                                   64

  SANTA MARIA MAGGIORE--By Hippolyte
  Adolphe Taine                                                       67

  CATACOMBS AND CRYPTS--By Charles Dickens 69

  THE CEMETERY OF THE CAPUCHINS--By Nathaniel
  Hawthorne                                                           73

  THE BURIAL PLACE OF KEATS AND SHELLEY--By
  Nathaniel Parker Willis                                             75

  EXCURSIONS NEAR ROME--By Charles Dickens                            78

  II--FLORENCE

  THE APPROACH BY CARRIAGE ROAD--By Nathaniel
  Hawthorne                                                           83

  THE OLD PALACE AND THE LOGGIA--By Theophile
  Gautier                                                             86

  THE ORIGINS OF THE CITY--By Grant Allen 92

  THE CATHEDRAL--By Hippolyte Adolphe
  Taine                                                               96

  THE ASCENT OF THE DOME OF BRUNELLESCHI--By
  Mr. and Mrs. Edwin H. Blashfield                                   102

  ARNOLFO, GIOTTO AND BRUNELLESCHI--By
  Mrs. Oliphant                                                      106

  GHIBERTI'S GATES--By Charles Yriarte                               116

  THE PONTE VECCHIO--By Charles Yriarte                              119

  SANTA CROCE--By Charles Yriarte                                    121

  THE UFFIZI GALLERY--By Hippolyte Adolphe
  Taine                                                              125

  FLORENCE EIGHTY YEARS AGO--By William
  Cullen Bryant                                                      131

  III--VENICE

  THE APPROACH FROM THE SEA--By Charles
  Yriarte                                                            138

  THE APPROACH BY TRAIN--By the Editor                               140

  A TOUR OF THE GRAND CANAL--By Theophile
  Gautier                                                            143

  ST. MARK'S CHURCH--By John Ruskin                                  148

  HOW THE OLD CAMPANILE WAS BUILT--By
  Horatio F. Brown                                                   155

  HOW THE CAMPANILE FELL--By Horatio F.
  Brown                                                              161

  THE PALACE OF THE DOGES--By John Ruskin                            163

  THE LAGOONS--By Horatio F. Brown                                   174

  THE DECLINE AMID SPLENDOR--By Hippolyte
  Adolphe Taine                                                      177

  THE DOVES OF ST. MARK'S--By Horatio F.
  Brown                                                              183

  TORCELLO, THE MOTHER CITY--By John Ruskin                          186

  CADORE, TITIAN'S BIRTHPLACE--By Amelia B.
  Edwards                                                            189

  LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

  VOLUME VII

  FRONTISPIECE

  THE COLISEUM AND THE ARCH OF TITUS

  PRECEDING PAGE 1

  THE PANTHEON, ROME
  ROME: THE TIBER, CASTLE OF ST. ANGELO, AND DOME OF ST. PETER'S
  ROME: RUINS OF THE PALACE OF THE CÆSARS
  ROME: THE SAN SEBASTIAN GATE
  THE TOMB OF METELLA ON THE APPIAN WAY
  THE TARPIAN ROCK IN ROME
  INTERIOR OF THE COLISEUM
  THE COLISEUM, ROME
  ST. PETER'S, ROME
  ROME: INTERIOR OF ST. PETER'S
  ROME: INTERIOR OF SANTA MARIA MAGGIORE
  THE CATHEDRAL, FLORENCE

  FOLLOWING PAGE 96

  FLORENCE: BRIDGE ACROSS THE ARNO
  FLORENCE: THE OLD PALACE
  FLORENCE: THE LOGGIA DI LANZI
  FLORENCE: CLOISTER OF SANTA MARIA NOVELLA
  FLORENCE: CLOISTER OF SAN MARCO
  FLORENCE: THE PITTI PALACE
  FLORENCE: HOUSE OF DANTE
  FRONT OF ST. MARK'S, VENICE
  INTERIOR OF ST. MARK'S, VENICE
  THE DUCAL PALACE, VENICE
  VENICE: PIAZZA OF ST. MARK'S, DUCAL PALACE ON THE LEFT
  VIEW OF VENICE FROM THE CAMPANILE

[ST. PETER'S, ROME Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

I

ROME

FIRST DAYS IN THE ETERNAL CITY[1]

BY JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE

At last I am arrived in this great capital of the world. If fifteen years ago I could have
seen it in good company, with a well-informed guide, I should have thought myself very fortunate.
But as it was to be that I should thus see it alone, and with my own eyes, it is well that
this joy has fallen to my lot so late in life.

Over the mountains of the Tyrol I have as good as flown. Verona, Vicenza, Padua, and Venice
I have carefully looked at; hastily glanced at Ferrara, Cento, Bologna, and scarcely seen Florence
at all. My anxiety to reach Rome was so great, and it so grew with me every moment, that to
think of stopping anywhere was quite out of the question; even in Florence, I only stayed three
hours. Now I am here at my ease, and as it would seem, shall be tranquilized for my whole life;
for we may almost say that a new life begins when a man once sees with his own eyes all that
before he has but partially heard or read of.

All the dreams of my youth I now behold realized before me; the subjects of the first engravings
I ever remembered seeing (several views of Rome were hung up in an anteroom of my father's
house) stand bodily before my sight, and all that I had long been acquainted with, through
paintings or drawings, engravings, or wood-cuts, plaster-casts, and cork models are here collectively
presented to my eye. Wherever I go I find some old acquaintance in this new world; it is all
just as I had thought it, and yet all is new; and just the same might I remark of my own observations
and my own ideas. I have not gained any new thoughts, but the older ones have become so defined,
so vivid, and so coherent, that they may almost pass for new ones....

I have now been here seven days, and by degrees have formed in my mind a general idea of the
city. We go diligently backward and forward. While I am thus making myself acquainted with
the plan of old and new Rome, viewing the ruins and the buildings, visiting this and that villa,
the grandest and most remarkable objects are slowly and leisurely contemplated. I do but keep
my eyes open and see, and then go and come again, for it is only in Rome one can duly prepare
oneself for Rome. It must, in truth, be confessed, that it is a sad and melancholy business
to prick and track out ancient Rome in new Rome; however, it must be done, and we may hope
at least for an incalculable gratification. We meet with traces both of majesty and of ruin,
which alike surpass all conception; what the barbarians spared, the builders of new Rome made
havoc of....

When one thus beholds an object two thousand years old and more, but so manifoldly and thoroughly
altered by the changes of time, but, sees nevertheless, the same soil, the same mountains,
and often indeed the same walls and columns, one becomes, as it were, a contemporary of the
great counsels of Fortune, and thus it becomes difficult for the observer to trace from the
beginning Rome following Rome, and not only new Rome succeeding to the old, but also the several
epochs of both old and new in succession. I endeavor, first of all, to grope my way alone through
the obscurer parts, for this is the only plan by which one can hope fully and completely to
perfect by the excellent introductory works which have been written from the fifteenth century
to the present day. The first artists and scholars have occupied their whole lives with these
objects.

And this vastness has a strangely tranquilizing effect upon you in Rome, while you pass from
place to place, in order to visit the most remarkable objects. In other places one has to search
for what is important; here one is opprest, and borne down with numberless phenomena. Wherever
one goes and casts a look around, the eye is at once struck with some landscape--forms of every
kind and style; palaces and ruins, gardens and statuary, distant views of villas, cottages
and stables, triumphal arches and columns, often crowding so close together, that they might
all be sketched on a single sheet of paper.

My strange, and perhaps whimsical, incognito proves useful to me in many ways that I never
should have thought of. As every one thinks himself in duty bound to ignore who I am, and consequently
never ventures to speak to me of myself and my works,[2] they have no alternative left them
but to speak of themselves, or of the matters in which they are most interested, and in this
way I become circumstantially informed of the occupations of each, and of everything remarkable
that is either taken in hand or produced. Hofrath Reiffenstein good-naturedly humors this whim
of mine; as, however, for special reasons, he could not bear the name which I had assumed,
he immediately made a Baron of me, and I am now called the "Baron gegen Rondanini über" (the
Baron who lives opposite to the Palace Rondanini). This designation is sufficiently precise,
especially as the Italians are accustomed to speak of people either by their Christian names,
or else by some nickname. Enough; I have gained my object; and I escape the dreadful annoyance
of having to give to everybody an account of myself and my works....

In Rome, the Rotunda,[3] both by its exterior and interior, has moved me to offer a willing
homage to its magnificence. In St. Peter's I learned to understand how art, no less than nature,
annihilates the artificial measures and dimensions of man. And in the same way the Apollo Belvidere
also has again drawn me out of reality. For as even the most correct engravings furnish no
adequate idea of these buildings, so the case is the same with respect to the marble original
of this statue, as compared with the plaster models of it, which, however, I formerly used
to look upon as beautiful.

Here I am now living with a calmness and tranquility to which I have for a long while been
a stranger. My practise to see and take all things as they are, my fidelity in letting the
eye be my light, my perfect renunciation of all pretension, have again come to my aid, and
make me calmly, but most intensely, happy. Every day has its fresh remarkable object--every
day its new grand unequaled paintings, and a whole which a man may long think of, and dream
of, but which with all his power of imagination he can never reach.

Yesterday I was at the Pyramid of Cestius, and in the evening on the Palatine, on the top of
which are the ruins of the palace of the Cæsars, which stand there like walls of rock. Of all
this, however, no idea can be conveyed! In truth, there is nothing little here; altho, indeed,
occasionally something to find fault with--something more or less absurd in taste, and yet
even this partakes of the universal grandeur of all around....

Yesterday I visited the nymph Egeria, and then the Hippodrome of Caracalla, the ruined tombs
along the Via Appia, and the tomb of Metella, which is the first to give one a true idea of
what solid masonry really is. These men worked for eternity--all causes of decay were calculated,
except the rage of the spoiler, which nothing can resist. The remains of the principal aqueduct
are highly venerable. How beautiful and grand a design, to supply a whole people with water
by so vast a structure! In the evening we came upon the Coliseum, when it was already twilight.
When one looks at it, all else seems little; the edifice is so vast, that one can not hold
the image of it in one's soul--in memory we think it smaller, and then return to it again to
find it every time greater than before.

We entered the Sistine Chapel, which we found bright and cheerful, and with a good light for
the pictures. "The Last Judgment" divided our admiration with the paintings on the roof by
Michael Angelo. I could only see and wonder. The mental confidence and boldness of the master,
and his grandeur of conception, are beyond all expression. After we had looked at all of them
over and over again, we left this sacred building, and went to St. Peter's, which received
from the bright heavens the loveliest light possible, and every part of it was clearly lit
up. As men willing to be pleased, we were delighted with its vastness and splendor, and did
not allow an over-nice or hypercritical taste to mar our pleasure. We supprest every harsher
judgment; we enjoyed the enjoyable.

Lastly we ascended the roof of the church, where one finds in little the plan, of a well-built
city. Houses and magazines, springs (in appearance at least), churches, and a great temple
all in the air, and beautiful walks between. We mounted the dome, and saw glistening before
us the regions of the Apennines, Soracte, and toward Tivoli the volcanic hills. Frascati, Castelgandolfo,
and the plains, and beyond all the sea. Close at our feet lay the whole city of Rome in its
length and breadth, with its mountain palaces, domes, etc. Not a breath of air was moving,
and in the upper dome it was (as they say) like being in a hot-house. When we had looked enough
at these things, we went down, and they opened for us the doors in the cornices of the dome,
the tympanum, and the nave. There is a passage all round, and from above you can take a view
of the whole church, and of its several parts. As we stood on the cornices of the tympanum,
we saw beneath us the pope passing to his mid-day devotions. Nothing, therefore, was wanting
to make our view of St. Peter's perfect. We at last descended to the piazza, and took in a
neighboring hotel a cheerful but frugal meal, and then set off for St. Cecilia's.

It would take many words to describe the decorations of this church, which was crammed full
of people; not a stone of the edifice was to be seen. The pillars were covered with red velvet
wound round with gold lace; the capitals were overlaid with embroidered velvet, so as to retain
somewhat of the appearance of capitals, and all the cornices and pillars were in like manner
covered with hangings. All the entablatures of the walls were also covered with life-like paintings,
so that the whole church seemed to be laid out in mosaic. Around the church, and on the high
altar more than two hundred wax tapers were burning. It looked like a wall of lights, and the
whole nave was perfectly lit up. The aisles and side altars were equally adorned and illuminated.
Right opposite the high altar, and under the organ, two scaffolds were erected, which also
were covered with velvet, on one of which were placed the singers, and on the other the instruments,
which kept up one unbroken strain of music....

And yet these glorious objects are even still like new acquaintances to me. One has not yet
lived with them, nor got familiar with their peculiarities. Some of them attract us with irresistible
power, so that for a time one feels indifferent, if not unjust, toward all others. Thus, for
instance, the Pantheon, the Apollo Belvedere, some colossal heads, and very recently the Sistine
Chapel, have by turns so won my whole heart, that I scarcely saw any thing besides them. But,
in truth, can man, little as man always is, and accustomed to littleness, ever make himself
equal to all that here surrounds him of the noble, the vast, and the refined? Even tho he should
in any degree adapt himself to it, then how vast is the multitude of objects that immediately
press upon him from all sides, and meet him at every turn, of which each demands for itself
the tribute of his whole attention. How is one to get out of the difficulty? No other way assuredly
than by patiently allowing it to work, becoming industrious, and attending the while to all
that others have accomplished for our benefit. All single objects are swallowed up by the great
masses of light and shade, and nothing but grand and general outlines present themselves to
the eye. For three several days we have enjoyed to the full the brightest and most glorious
of nights. Peculiarly beautiful at such a time is the Coliseum. At night it is always closed;
a hermit dwells in a little shrine within its range, and beggars of all kinds nestle beneath
its crumbling arches; the latter had lit a fire on the arena, and a gentle wind bore down the
smoke to the ground, so that the lower portion of the ruins was quite hid by it, while above
the vast walls stood out in deeper darkness before the eye. As we stopt at the gate to contemplate
the scene through the iron gratings, the moon shone brightly in the heavens above. Presently
the smoke found its way up the sides, and through every chink and opening, while the moon lit
it up like a cloud. The sight was exceedingly glorious. In such a light one ought also to see
the Pantheon, the Capitol, the Portico of St. Peter's, and the other grand streets and squares--and
thus sun and moon, like the human mind, have quite a different work to do here from elsewhere,
where the vastest and yet the most elegant of masses present themselves to their rays.

THE ANTIQUITIES OF THE CITY[4]

BY JOSEPH ADDISON

There are in Rome two sets of antiquities, the Christian, and the heathen. The former, tho
of a fresher date, are so embroiled with fable and legend, that one receives but little satisfaction
from searching into them. The other give a great deal of pleasure to such as have met with
them before in ancient authors; for a man who is in Rome can scarce see an object that does
not call to mind a piece of a Latin poet or historian. Among the remains of old Rome, the grandeur
of the commonwealth shows itself chiefly in works that were either necessary or convenient,
such as temples, highways, aqueducts, walls, and bridges of the city. On the contrary, the
magnificence of Rome under the emperors is seen principally in such works as were rather for
ostentation or luxury, than any real usefulness or necessity, as in baths, amphitheaters, circuses,
obelisks, triumphal pillars, arches, and mausoleums; for what they added to the aqueducts was
rather to supply their baths and naumachias, and to embellish the city with fountains, than
out of any real necessity there was for them....

No part of the antiquities of Rome pleased me so much as the ancient statues, of which there
is still an incredible variety. The workmanship is often the most exquisite of anything in
its kind. A man would wonder how it were possible for so much life to enter into marble, as
may be discovered in some of the best of them; and even in the meanest, one has the satisfaction
of seeing the faces, postures, airs, and dress of those that have lived so many ages before
us. There is a strange resemblance between the figures of the several heathen deities, and
the descriptions that the Latin poets have given us of them; but as the first may be looked
upon as the ancienter of the two, I question not but the Roman poets were the copiers of the
Greek statuaries. Tho on other occasions we often find the statuaries took their subjects from
the poets. The Laocöon is too known an instance among many others that are to be met with at Rome.

I could not forbear taking particular notice of the several musical instruments that are to
be seen in the hands of the Apollos, muses, fauns, satyrs, bacchanals, and shepherds, which
might certainly give a great light to the dispute for preference between the ancient and modern
music. It would, perhaps, be no impertinent design to take off all their models in wood, which
might not only give us some notion of the ancient music, but help us to pleasanter instruments
than are now in use. By the appearance they make in marble, there is not one string-instrument
that seems comparable to our violins, for they are all played on either by the bare fingers,
or the plectrum, so that they were incapable of adding any length to their notes, or of varying
them by those insensible swellings, and wearings away of sound upon the same string, which
give so wonderful a sweetness to our modern music. Besides that, the string-instruments must
have had very low and feeble voices, as may be guessed from the small proportion of wood about
them, which could not contain air enough to render the strokes, in any considerable measure,
full and sonorous. There is a great deal of difference in the make, not only of the several
kinds of instruments, but even among those of the same name. The syringa, for example, has
sometimes four, and sometimes more pipes, as high as the twelve. The same variety of strings
may be observed on their harps, and of stops on their tibiæ, which shows the little foundation
that such writers have gone upon, who, from a verse perhaps in Virgil's Eclogues, or a short
passage in a classic author, have been so very nice in determining the precise shape of the
ancient musical instruments, with the exact number of their pipes, strings, and stops....

Tho the statues that have been found among the ruins of old Rome are already very numerous,
there is no question but posterity will have the pleasure of seeing many noble pieces of sculpture
which are still undiscovered; for, doubtless, there are greater treasures of this nature under
ground, than what are yet brought to light.[5] They have often dug into lands that are described
in old authors, as the places where such particular statues or obelisks stood, and have seldom
failed of success in their pursuits. There are still many such promising spots of ground that
have never been searched into. A great part of the Palatine mountain, for example, lies untouched,
which was formerly the seat of the imperial palace, and may be presumed to abound with more
treasures of this nature than any other part of Rome.

But whether it be that the richest of these discoveries fall into the Pope's hands, or for
some other reason, it is said that the Prince Farnese, who is the present owner of this seat,
will keep his own family in the chair. There are undertakers in Rome who often purchase the
digging of fields, gardens, or vineyards, where they find any likelihood of succeeding, and
some have been known to arrive at great estates by it. They pay according to the dimensions
of the surface they are to break up; and after having made essays into it, as they do for coal
in England, they rake into the most promising parts of it, tho they often find, to their disappointment,
that others have been beforehand with them. However, they generally gain enough by the rubbish
and bricks, which the present architects value much beyond those of a modern make, to defray
the charges of their search.

I was shown two spaces of ground, where part of Nero's golden house stood, for which the owner
has been offered an extraordinary sum of money. What encouraged the undertakers, are several
very ancient trees, which grow upon the spot, from whence they conclude that these particular
tracts of ground must have lain untouched for some ages. It is pity there is not something
like a public register, to preserve the memory of such statues as have been found from time
to time, and to mark the particular places where they have been taken up, which would not only
prevent many fruitless searches for the future, but might often give a considerable light into
the quality of the place, or the design of the statue.

But the great magazine for all kinds of treasure, is supposed to be the bed of the Tiber. We
may be sure, when the Romans lay under the apprehensions of seeing their city sacked by a barbarous
enemy, as they have done more than once, that they would take care to bestow such of their
riches this way as could best bear the water, besides what the insolence of a brutish conqueror
may be supposed to have contributed, who had an ambition to waste and destroy all the beauties
of so celebrated a city. I need not mention the old common-shore of Rome, which ran from all
parts of the town with the current and violence of an ordinary river, nor the frequent inundations
of the Tiber, which may have swept away many of the ornaments of its banks, nor the several
statues that the Romans themselves flung into it, when they would revenge themselves on the
memory of an ill citizen, a dead tyrant, or a discarded favorite.

At Rome they have so general an opinion of the riches of this river, that the Jews have formerly
proffered the Pope to cleanse it, so they might have for their pains what they found in the
bosom of it. I have seen the valley near Ponte Molle, which they proposed to fashion into a
new channel for it, until they had cleared the old for its reception. The Pope, however, would
not comply with the proposal, as fearing the heats might advance too far before they had finished
their work, and produce a pestilence among his people; tho I do not see why such a design might
not be executed now with as little danger as in Augustus's time, were there as many hands employed
upon it. The city of Rome would receive a great advantage from the undertaking, as it would
raise the banks and deepen the bed of the Tiber, and by consequence free them from those frequent
inundations to which they are so subject at present; for the channel of the river is observed
to be narrower within the walls than either below or above them.

Next to the statues, there is nothing in Rome more surprizing than that amazing variety of
ancient pillars of so many kinds of marble. As most of the old statues may be well supposed
to have been cheaper to their first owners than they are to a modern purchaser, several of
the pillars are certainly rated at a much lower price at present than they were of old. For
not to mention what a huge column of granite, serpentine, or porphyry must have cost in the
quarry, or in its carriage from Egypt to Rome, we may only consider the great difficulty of
hewing it into any form, and of giving it the due turn, proportion, and polish. The most valuable
pillars about Rome, for the marble of which they are made, are the four columns of oriental
jasper in St. Paulina's chapel at St. Maria Maggiore; two of oriental granite in St. Pudenziana;
one of transparent oriental jasper in the Vatican library; four of Nero-Bianco, in St. Cecilia
Transtevere; two of Brocatello, and two of oriental agate in Don Livio's palace; two of Giallo
Antico in St. John Lateran, and two of Verdi Antique in the Villa Pamphilia. These are all
entire and solid pillars, and made of such kinds of marble as are nowhere to be found but among
antiquities, whether it be that the veins of it are undiscovered, or that they were quite exhausted
upon the ancient buildings. Among these old pillars, I can not forbear reckoning a great part
of an alabaster column, which was found in the ruins of Livia's portico. It is of the color
of fire, and may be seen over the high altar of St. Maria in Campitello; for they have cut
it into two pieces, and fixt it in the shape of a cross in a hole of the wall that was made
on purpose to receive it; so that the light passing through it from without, makes it look,
to those who are in the church, like a huge transparent cross of amber.

THE PALACE OF THE CÆSARS[6]

BY RODOLFO LANCIANI

The Palatine hill became the residence of the Roman emperors, and the center of the Roman Empire,
not on account of its historical and traditional associations with the foundation and first
growth of the city, nor because of its central and commanding position, but by a mere accident.
At daybreak on September 21st, of the year 63 B.C., Augustus was born in this region, in a
modest house, opening on the lane called "ad capita bubula," which led from the valley, where
now the Coliseum stands, up the slopes of the hill toward the modern church and convent of
St. Bonaventura.

This man, sent by God to change the condition of mankind and the state of the world, this founder
of an empire which is still practically in existence,[7] never deserted the Palatine hill all
through his eventful career. From the lane "ad capita bubula" he moved to the house of Calvus,
the orator, at the northeast corner of the hill overlooking the forum; and in process of time,
having become absolute master of the Roman Commonwealth, he settled finally on the top of the
hill, having purchased for his residence the house of Hortensius, a simple and modest house,
indeed, with columns of the commonest kind of stone, pavements of rubble-work, and simple whitewashed
walls.

Whether this selection of a site was made because the Palatine had long before been the Faubourg
St. Honoré, the Belgravia of ancient Rome, is difficult to determine. We know that the house
of Hortensius, chosen by Augustus, was surrounded by those of Clodius, Scaurus, Crassus, Caecina,
Sisenna, Flaccus, Catiline, and other members of the aristocracy. I am persuaded, however,
that the secret of the selection is to be found in the simplicity, I will even say in the poverty,
of the dwelling; in fact, such extreme modesty is worthy of the good sense and the spirit of
moderation shown by Augustus throughout his career. He could very well sacrifice appearances
to the reality of an unbounded power. It is just, at any rate, to recognize that even in his
remotest resorts for temporary rest and retirement from the cares of government, he led the
same kind of plain, modest life, spending all his leisure hours in arranging his collections
of natural history, more especially the palaeo-ethnological or prehistoric, for which the ossiferous
caverns of the Island of Capri supplied him with abundant materials.

It was only after the victory of Actium that, finding himself master of the world, he thought
it expedient to give up, in a certain measure, his former habits, and live in better style.
Having bought through his agents some of the aristocratic palaces adjoining the old house of
Hortensius, among them the historical palace of Catiline, he built a new and very handsome
residence, but declared at the same time that he considered it as public property, not as his
own. The solemn dedication of the palace took place on January 14th, of the year 26 before
Christ. Here he lived, sleeping always in the same small cubiculum, for twenty-eight years;
that is to say, until the third year after Christ, when the palace was almost destroyed by fire.

As soon as the news of the disaster spread throughout the empire, an almost incredible amount
of money was subscribed at once, by all orders of citizens, to provide him with a new residence;
and altho, with his usual moderation, he would consent to accept only one denarius from each
individual subscribed, it is easy to imagine how many millions he must have realized in spite
of his modesty. A new, magnificent palace rose from the ruins of the old one, but it does not
appear that the plan and arrangement were changed; otherwise Augustus could not have continued
to sleep in the same room during the last ten years of his life, as we are told positively
that he did.

The work of Augustus was continued by his successor and kinsman, Tiberius, who built a new
wing near the northwest corner of the hill, overlooking the Velabrum. Caligula filled with
new structures the whole space between the "domus Tiberiana" and the Roman forum. Nero, likewise,
occupied with a new palace the south-east corner of the hill, overlooking the valley, where
the Coliseum was afterward built. Domitian rebuilt the "domus Augustana," injured by fire,
adding to its accommodations a stadium for gymnastic sports. The same emperor raised an altogether
new palace, in the space between the house of Augustus, on one side, and those of Caligula
and Tiberius on the other. Septimius Severus and his son restored the whole group of imperial
buildings, adding a new wing at the southwest corner, known under the name of Septizonium.
The latest additions, of no special importance, took place under Julia Mamaea and Heliogabalus.

Every emperor, to a certain extent, enlarged, altered, destroyed, and reconstructed the work
of his predecessors; cutting new openings, walling up old ones, subdividing large rooms into
smaller apartments, and changing their destination. One section alone of the imperial Palatine
buildings remained unaltered, and kept the former simplicity of its plans down to the fall
of the Empire--the section built by Augustus across the center of the hill, which comprised
the main entrance, the portico surrounding the temple of Apollo, the temple itself, the Greek
and Latin libraries, the shrine of Vesta, and the imperial residence.

The architectural group raised by Augustus on the Palatine, formed, as it were, the vestibule
to his own imperial residence. We know with absolute certainty that it contained at least one
hundred and twenty columns of the rarest kinds of marbles and breccias, fifty-two of which
were of Numidian marble, with capitals of gilt bronze; a group of Lysias, comprising one chariot,
four horses and two drivers, all cut in a single block of marble; the Hercules of Lysippus;
the Apollo of Scopas; the Latona of Cephisodotos, the Diana of Timotheos; the bas-reliefs of
the pediment by Bupalos and Anthermos; the quadriga of the sun in gilt bronze; exquisite ivory
carvings; a bronze colossus fifty feet high; hundreds of medallions in gold, silver, and bronze;
gold and silver plate; a collection of gems and cameos; and, lastly, candelabras which had
been the property of Alexander the Great, and the admiration of the East.

Has the world ever seen a collection of greater artistic and material value exhibited in a
single building? And we must recollect that the group built by Augustus comprises only a very
modest section of the Palatine; that to his palace we must join the palaces of Tiberius, Caligula,
Nero, Vespasian, Domitian, Septimius Serverus, Julia Mamaea, and Heliogabalus; that each one
of these imperial residences equalled the residence of Augustus, if not in pure taste, certainly
in wealth, in luxury, in magnificence, in the number and value of works of art collected and
stolen from Greece and the East, from Egypt and Persia. By multiplying eight or ten times the
list I have given above, the reader will get an approximate idea of the "home" of the Roman
emperors in its full pride and glory. I have deliberately excluded from my description the
residence or private house of Augustus, because he himself had deliberately excluded from it
any trace of that grandeur he had so lavishly bestowed on the buildings which constituted the
approach to it....

During the rule of Claudius, the successor of Caligula, little or nothing was done toward the
enlargement or the embellishment of the palace of the Cæsars. Nero, however, the successor
of Claudius, conceived the gigantic plan of renewing and of rebuilding from the very foundations,
not only the imperial residence, but the whole metropolis. In the rebuilding of the city the
emperor secured for himself the lion's share; and his Golden House, of which we possess such
beautiful remains, occupied the whole extent from the Palatine to the Quirinal, where now the
central railway station has been erected. Its area amounted to nearly a square mile, and this
enormous district was appropriated, or rather usurped, by the emperor, right in the center
of a city numbering about two million inhabitants.

Of the wonders of the Golden House it is enough to say that there were comprised within the
precincts of the enchanting residence waterfalls supplied by an aqueduct fifty miles long,
lakes and rivers shaded by dense masses of foliage, with harbors and docks for the imperial
galleys; a vestibule containing a bronze colossus one hundred and twenty feet high; porticos
three thousand feet long; farms and vineyards, pasture grounds and woods teeming with the rarest
and costliest kind of game, zoological and botanical gardens; sulfur baths supplied from springs
twelve miles distant; sea baths supplied from the waters of the Mediterranean, sixteen miles
distant at the nearest point; thousands of columns crowned with capitals of Corinthian gilt
metal; thousands of statues stolen from Greece and Asia Minor; walls encrusted with gems and
mother-of-pearl; banqueting-halls with ivory ceilings, from which rare flowers and precious
perfumes could fall gently on the recumbent guests.

More marvelous still was the ceiling of the state dining-room. It was spherical in shape, and
cut in ivory, to represent the constellated skies, and kept in constant motion by machinery
in imitation of the movements of the stars and planets. All these details sound like fairy-tales,
like the dream of a fertile imagination; still they are described minutely by contemporary
and serious writers, by Suetonius, by Martial and by Tacitus. Suetonius adds that the day Nero
took possession of his Golden House, he was heard to exclaim, "At last I am lodged like a man."

The wonders created by him, however, did not last very long. Otho, his successor, on the very
day of his election to the throne, signed an order of fifty millions of sesterces (two million
dollars) to bring the Golden House to perfection; but after his murder Vespasian and Titus
gave back to the people the greater portion of the ground usurped by Nero. They built the Coliseum
on the very site of Nero's artificial lake, and the thermæ of Titus on the foundation of his
private palace; they respected only that portion of Nero's insane construction which was comprised
within the boundaries of the Palatine hill.

THE COLISEUM[8]

BY GEORGE STILLMAN HILLARD

The Venerable Bede, who lived in the eighth century, is the first person who is known to have
given to the Flavian amphitheater its comparatively modern and now universal designation of
the Coliseum; tho the name, derived from a colossal statue of the emperor Nero which stood
near it, was probably then familiar to men's ears, as we may infer from his so calling it without
explanation or remark.

When in its perfect state, the exterior, with its costly ornaments in marble, and its forest
of columns, lost the merit of simplicity without gaining that of grandeur. The eye was teased
with a multitude of details, not in themselves good; the same defects were repeated in each
story, and the real height was diminished by the projecting and ungraceful cornices. The interior
arrangements were admirable; and modern architects can not sufficiently commend the skill with
which eighty thousand spectators were accommodated with seats; or the ingenious contrivances,
by which, through the help of spacious corridors, multiplied passages, and staircases, every
person went directly to his place, and immense audiences were dispersed in less time than is
required for a thousand persons to squeeze through the entries of a modern concert-room. We
know that this interior of the Coliseum was decorated with great splendor. The principal seats
were of marble, and covered with cushions. Gilded gratings, ornaments of gold, ivory, and amber,
and mosaics of precious stones, displayed the generosity of the emperors, and gratified the
taste of the people.

How, or at what period, the work of ruin first began does not distinctly appear. An earthquake
may have first shattered its ponderous arches, and thus made an opening for the destroying
hand of time. There can be no doubt that it suffered violence from the hands of civil and foreign
war. But more destructive agencies than those of earthquake, conflagration or war, were let
loose upon it. Its massive stones, fitted to each other with such nice adaptation, presented
a strong temptation to the cupidity of wealthy nobles and cardinals, with whom building was
a ruling passion; and for many ages the Coliseum became a quarry. The Palazzo della Cancelleria,
the Palazzo Barberini, the Palazzo Farnese, and the Palazzo Veneziano were all built mainly
from the plunder of the Coliseum; and meaner robbers emulated the rapacity of their betters,
by burning into lime the fragments not available for architectural purposes.

The material of which the Coliseum was built is exactly fitted to the purposes of a great ruin.
It is travertine, of a rich, dark, warm color, deepened and mellowed by time. There is nothing
glaring, harsh, or abrupt in the harmony of tints. The blue sky above, and the green earth
beneath, are in unison with a tone of coloring not unlike the brown of one of our own early
winter landscapes. The travertine is also of a coarse grain and porous texture, not splintering
into points and edges, but gradually corroding by natural decay. Stone of such a texture everywhere
opens laps and nooks for the reception and formation of soil. Every grain of dust that is borne
through the air by the lazy breeze of summer, instead of sliding from a glassy surface, is
held where it falls. The rocks themselves crumble and decompose, and turn into a fertile mold.
Thus, the Coliseum is throughout crowned and draped with a covering of earth, in many places
of considerable depth. Trailing plants clasp the stones with arms of verdure; wild flowers
bloom in their seasons; and long grass nods and waves on the airy battlements. Life has everywhere
sprouted from the trunk of death. Insects hum and sport in the sunshine; the burnished lizard
darts like a tongue of green flame along the walls; and birds make the hollow quarry overflow
with their songs. There is something beautiful and impressive in the contrast between luxuriant
life and the rigid skeleton upon which it rests.

As a matter of course, everybody goes to see the Coliseum by moonlight. The great charm of
the ruin under this condition is, that the imagination is substituted for sight; and the mind
for the eye. The essential character of moonlight is hard rather than soft. The line between
light and shadow is sharply defined, and there is no gradation of color. Blocks and walls of
silver are bordered by, and spring out of, chasms of blackness. But moonlight shrouds the Coliseum
in mystery. It opens deep vaults of gloom where the eye meets only an ebon wall, upon which
the fancy paints innumerable pictures in solemn, splendid, and tragic colors. Shadowy forms
of emperor and lictor and vestal virgin and gladiator and martyr come out of the darkness,
and pass before us in long and silent procession. The breezes which blow through the broken
arches are changed into voices, and recall the shouts and cries of a vast audience. By day,
the Coliseum is an impressive fact; by night, it is a stately vision. By day, it is a lifeless
form; by night, a vital thought.

The Coliseum should by all means be seen by a bright starlight, or under the growing sickle
of a young moon. The fainter ray and deeper gloom bring out more strongly its visionary and
ideal character. When the full moon has blotted out the stars, it fills the vast gulf of the
building with a flood of spectral light, which falls with a chilling touch upon the spirit;
for then the ruin is like a "corpse in its shroud of snow," and the moon is a pale watcher
by its side. But when the walls, veiled in deep shadow, seem a part of the darkness in which
they are lost--when the stars are seen through their chasms and breaks, and sparkle along the
broken line of the battlements--the scene becomes another, tho the same; more indistinct, yet
not so mournful; contracting the sphere of sight, but enlarging that of thought; less burdening,
but more suggestive.

But under all aspects, in the blaze of noon, at sunset, by the light of the moon or stars--the
Coliseum stands alone and unapproached. It is the monarch of ruins. It is a great tragedy in
stone, and it softens and subdues the mind like a drama of Aeschylus or Shakespeare. It is
a colossal type of those struggles of humanity against an irresistible destiny, in which the
tragic poet finds the elements of his art. The calamities which crusht the house of Atreus
are symbolized in its broken arches and shattered walls. Built of the most durable materials,
and seemingly for eternity--of a size, material, and form to defy the "strong hours" which
conquer all, it has bowed its head to their touch, and passed into the inevitable cycle of
decay. "And this too shall pass away"--which the Eastern monarch engraved upon his signet ring--is
carved upon these Cyclopean blocks. The stones of the Coliseum were once water; and they are
now turning into dust. Such is ever the circle of nature. The solid is changing into the fluid,
and the fluid into the solid; and that which is unseen is alone indestructible. He does not
see the Coliseum aright who carries away from it no other impressions than those of form, size,
and hue. It speaks an intelligible language to the wiser mind. It rebukes the peevish and consoles
the patient. It teaches us that there are misfortunes which are clothed with dignity, and sorrows
that are crowned with grandeur. As the same blue sky smiles upon the ruin which smiled upon
the perfect structure, so the same beneficent Providence bends over our shattered hopes and
our answered prayers.

THE PANTHEON[9]

BY GEORGE STILLMAN HILLARD

The best preserved monument of ancient Rome, and one of the most beautiful buildings of the
modern city, is unhappily placed. The Pantheon stands in a narrow and dirty piazza, and is
shouldered and elbowed by a mob of vulgar houses. There is no breathing-space around, which
it might penetrate with the light of its own serene beauty. Its harmonious proportions can
be seen only in front; and it has there the disadvantage of being approached from a point higher
than that on which it stands. On one side is a market; and the space before the matchless portico
is strewn with fish-bones, decayed vegetables, and offal.[10]

Forsyth, the sternest and most fastidious of architectural critics, has only "large draughts
of unqualified praise" for the Pantheon; and, where he finds nothing to censure, who will venture
to do any thing but commend? The character of the architecture, and the sense of satisfaction
which it leaves upon the mind, are proofs of the enduring charm of simplicity. The portico
is perfectly beautiful. It is one hundred and ten feet long and forty-four deep, and rests
upon sixteen columns of the Corinthian order, the shafts being of granite and the capitals
of marble. Eight of these are in front, and of these eight, there are four (including the two
on the extreme right and left) which have two others behind them; the portico being thus divided
into three portions, like the nave and side aisles of a cathedral; the middle space, leading
to the door, being wider than the others. The granite of the shafts is partly gray and partly
rose-colored, but, in the shadow in which they stand, the difference of hue is hardly perceptible.
The proportions of these columns are faultless; and their massive shafts and richly-carved
capitals produce the effect, at once, of beauty and sublimity. The pediment above is now a
bald front of ragged stone, but it was once adorned with bas-reliefs in bronze; and the holes,
made by the rivets with which they were fastened, are still to be seen.

The aisles of the portico were once vaulted with bronze, and massive beams or slabs of the
same metal stretched across the whole structure; but this was removed by Urban VIII., and melted
into a baldachino to deface St. Peter's, and cannon to defend the castle of St. Angelo; and,
not content with this, he has added insult to injury, and commemorated his robbery in a Latin
inscription, in which he claims to be commended as for a praiseworthy act. But even this is
not the heaviest weight resting on the memory of that vandal pope. He shares with Bernini the
reproach of having added those hideous belfries which now rise above each end of the vestibule--as
wanton and unprovoked an offense against good taste as ever was committed. A cocked hat upon
the statue of Demosthenes in the Vatican would not be a more discordant addition. The artist
should have gone to the stake, before giving his hand to such a piece of disfigurement.

The cell, or main portion of the building to which the portico is attached, is a simple structure,
circular in form, and built of brick. It was formerly encrusted with marble. The cell and the
portico stand to each other in the most harmonious relation, altho it seems to be admitted
that the latter was an addition, not contemplated when the cell was built. But in the combination
there is nothing forced or unnatural, and they seem as necessary and as preordained complements,
one to the other, as a fine face and a fine head. The cell is a type of masculine dignity,
and the portico, of feminine grace; and the result is a perfect architectural union.

The interior--a rotunda, surmounted by a dome--is converted into a Christian church, a purpose
to which its form and structure are not well adapted; and the altars and their accessories
are not improvements in an architectural point of view. But in spite of this--in spite of all
that it has suffered at the hands of rapacity and bad taste--tho the panels of the majestic
dome have been stript of their bronze, and the whole has been daubed over with a glaring coat
of whitewash--the interior still remains, with all its rare beauty essentially unimpaired.
And the reason of this is that this charm is the result of form and proportion, and can not
be lost except by entire destruction. The only light which the temple receives is from a circular
opening of twenty-eight feet in diameter at the top; and falling, as it does, directly from
the sky, it fills the whole space with the purity of the heavens themselves. The magical effect
of this kind of illumination it is impossible to describe....

The pavement of the Pantheon, composed of porphyry, pavonazzetto, and giallo antico, tho constantly
overflowed by the Tiber, and drenched by the rains which fall upon it from the roof, is the
finest in Rome. There is an opening in the center, through which the water entering by the
dome is carried off into a reservoir.

The Pantheon has a peculiar interest in the history of art, as the burial place of Raphael.
His grave was opened in 1833, and the remains found to be lying in the spot which Vasari had
pointed out.

HADRIAN'S TOMB[11]

BY RODOLFO LANCIANI

Nerva was the last Emperor buried in the mausoleum of Augustus.[12] Trajan's ashes were laid
to rest in an urn of gold under his monumental column. Hadrian determined to raise a new tomb
for himself and his successors, and, like Augustus, selected a site on the green and shady
banks of the Tiber, not on the city side, however, but in the gardens of Domitia, which, with
those of Agrippina, formed a crown property called by Tacitus "Nero's Gardens." The mausoleum
and the bridge which gave access to it were substantially finished in A.D. 136. Antoninus Pius,
after completing the ornamental part in 139, transferred to it Hadrian's ashes from their temporary
burial-place in the former villa of Cicero at Puteoli, and was himself afterward interred there....

Beside the passages of the "Hadrian's Life," and of Dion Cassius, two descriptions of the monument
have come down to us, one by Procopius, the other by Leo I. From these we learn that it was
composed of a square basement of moderate height, each side of which measured 247 feet. It
was faced with blocks of Parian marble, with pilasters at the corners, crowned by a capital.
Above the pilasters were groups of men and horses in bronze, of admirable workmanship. The
basement was protected around by a sidewalk and a railing of gilt bronze, supported by marble
pillars crowned with gilded peacocks, two of which are in the Giardino della Pigna, in the
Vatican. A grand circular mole, nearly a thousand feet in circumference, and also faced with
blocks of Parian marble, stood on the square basement and supported in its turn a cone of earth
covered with evergreens, like the mausoleum of Augustus.

Of this magnificent decoration nothing now remains except a few blocks of the coating of marble,
on the east side of the quadrangle, near the Bastione di S. Giovanni. All that is visible of
the ancient work from the outside are the blocks of peperino of the mole which once supported
the outer casing. The rest, both above and below, is covered by the works of fortification
constructed at various periods, from the time of Honorius (393-403) to our own days. In no
other monument of ancient and medieval Rome is our history written, molded, as it were, so
vividly, as upon the battered remains of this castle-tomb. Within and around it took place
all the fights for dominion with which popes, emperors, barons, barbarians, Romans, have distracted
the city for fifteen hundred years.

Of the internal arrangement of the monument nothing was known until 1825, when the principal
door was discovered in the middle of the square basement facing the bridge. It opens upon a
corridor leading to a large niche, which, it is conjectured, contained a statue of Hadrian.
The walls of this vestibule, by which modern visitors generally begin their inspection, are
built of travertine, and bear evidence of having been paneled with Numidian marble. The pavement
is of white mosaic. On the right side of this vestibule, near the niche, begins an inclined
spiral way, 30 feet high and 11 feet wide, leading up to the central chamber, which is in the
form of a Greek cross.

There is no doubt that the tomb was adorned with statues. Procopius distinctly says that, during
the siege laid by the Goths to the castle in 537, many of them were hurled down from the battlements
upon the assailants. On the strength of this passage topographers have been in the habit of
attributing to the mausoleum all the works of statuary discovered in the neighborhood; like
the Barberini Faun now in Munich, the exquisite statue of a River God described by Cassiano
dal Pozzo, etc., as if such subjects were becoming a house of death. The mausoleum of Hadrian
formed part of one of the largest and noblest cemeteries of ancient Rome, crossed by the Via
Triumphalis. The tomb next in importance to it was the so-called "Meta," or "sepulcrum Romuli,"
or "sepulcrum Neronis," a pyramid of great size, which stood on the site of the church of St.
Maria Transpontina, and was destroyed by Alexander VI. in 1499.

TRAJAN'S FORUM[13]

BY FRANCIS WEY

In the midst of the busy quarters lying at the base of the Quirinal, you come out upon a great
piazza which you name at once without ever having seen it before; Trajan's Column serves as
ensign for a forum, of which Apollodorus of Damascus erected the porticoes. The lines described
by the bases of a plantation of pillars will help you to identify the pesimeter of the temple
which Hadrian consecrated, and the site of the Ulpian Library which was divided into two chambers--one
for Greek books, and the other for Latin; and finally the situation of the basilica, opening
on to the forum and with its apse in the north-northwest direction....

It was in the Ulpian Basilica that, in 312, Constantine, having assembled the notables of the
empire seated himself in the presbyterium, to proclaim his abjuration of polytheism in favor
of the religion of Christ; on that day and spot the prince closed the cycle of antiquity, opened
the catacombs, and inaugurated the modern world. The Acts of St. Sylvester describe many passages
of the discourse in which, "invoking truth against mischievous divisions," and declaring that
he "put away superstitions born of ignorance and reared on unreason," the emperor ordains that
"churches be opened to Christians, and that the priests of the temples and those of Christ
enjoy the same privileges." He himself undertakes to build a church in his Lateran palace.

I do not think there exists any monument in the world more precious or more exquisite in its
proportions than Trajan's Column, nor one that has rendered more capital service. This has
been set forth with more authority than I can pretend to, by Viollet-le-Duc, the architect
who has written best on his own art; his description sums up the subject and makes everything
clear. A set of pictures of the campaigns of Trajan against the Decians--the bas-reliefs--reproduces
the arms, the accouterments, the engines of war, the dwellings of the barbarians; we discern
the breed of the warriors and their horses; we look upon the ships of the time, canoes and
quinqueremes; women of all ranks, priests of all theogonies, sieges, and assaults. Such are
the merits of this sculptured host, that Polidoro da Caravaggio, Giulio Romano, Michael Angelo,
and all the artists of the Renaissance have drawn thence models of style and picturesque grouping.

Trajan's Column is of pure Carrara marble. The shaft measures about ninety-four English feet,
by twelve in diameter at the base, and ten below the capital, which is Doric and carved out
of a single block; the column is composed of thirty-four blocks, hollowed out internally and
cut into a winding stair. A series of bas-reliefs, divided from one another by a narrow band,
run spirally around the shaft parallel to the inner staircase of a hundred and eighty-two steps,
and describes twenty-three circuits to reach the platform on which the statue is placed. The
foot and the pedestal are seventeen feet high; the torus, of enormous diameter, is a monolith;
the whole construction rises a hundred and thirty-five feet from the ground. These thirty-four
blocks, measuring eleven meters in circumference by one in height, had--a task of considerable
precision--to have holes drilled in them for the screws of the staircase, it being necessary
to determine from the inside precisely where these borings must be made in order not to break
the continuity of the bas-reliefs, executed by several different hands, and which are more
deeply worked in proportion as they gain in height, so as to appear of an equal projection.

THE BATHS OF CARACALLA[14]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

You reach the Baths of Caracalla, the most imposing object after the Coliseum that one sees
in Rome. These colossal structures are so many signs of their times. Imperial Rome plundered
the entire Mediterranean basin, Spain, Gaul, and two-thirds of England, for the benefit of
a hundred thousand idlers. She amused them in the Coliseum with massacres of beasts and of
men; in the Circus Maximus with combats of athletes and with chariot races; in the theater
of Marcellus with pantomimes, plays, and the pageantry of arms and costume; she provided them
with baths, to which they resorted to gossip, to contemplate statues, to listen to declaimers,
to keep themselves cool in the heats of summer. All that had been invented of the convenient,
agreeable, and beautiful, all that could be collected in the world that was curious and magnificent,
was for them; the Cæsars fed them and diverted them, seeking only to afford them gratification,
and to obtain their acclamations.

A Roman of the middle classes might well regard his emperors as so many public purveyors, administering
his property, relieving him from troublesome cares, furnishing him at fair rates, or for nothing,
with corn, wine, and oil, giving him sumptuous meals and well-got-up fêtes, providing him with
pictures, statues, pantomimists, gladiators, and lions, resuscitating his "blasé" taste every
morning with some surprising novelty, and even occasionally converting themselves into actors,
charioteers, singers, and gladiators for his especial delight. In order to lodge this group
of amateurs in a very suitable to its regal pretensions, architecture invented original and
grand forms. Vast structures always indicate some corresponding excess, some immoderate concentration
and accumulation of the labor of humanity. Look at the Gothic cathedrals, the pyramids of Egypt,
Paris of the present day, and the docks of London!

On reaching the end of a long line of narrow streets, white walls, and deserted gardens, the
great ruin appears. There is nothing with which to compare its form, while the line it describes
on the sky is unique. No mountains, no hills, no edifices, give any idea of it. It resembles
all these; it is a human structure, which time and events have so deformed and transformed,
as to render a natural production. Rising upward in the air, its moss-stained embossed summit
and indented crest with its wide crevices, a red, mournful, decayed mass, silently reposes
in a shroud of clouds.

You enter, and it seems as if you had never seen anything in the world so grand. The Coliseum
itself is no approach to it, so much do a multiplicity and irregularity of ruins add to the
vastness of the vast enclosure. Before these heaps of red corroded masonry, these round vaults
spanning the air like the arches of a mighty bridge before these crumbling walls, you wonder
whether an entire city did not once exist there. Frequently an arch has fallen, and the monstrous
mass that sustained it still stands erect, exposing remnants of staircases and fragments of
arcades, like so many shapeless, deformed houses.

Sometimes it is cleft in the center, and a portion appears about to fall and roll away, like
a huge rock. Sections of wall and pieces of tottering arches cling to it and dart their projections
threateningly upward in the air. The courts are strewed with various fragments, and blocks
of brick welded together by the action of time, like stones incrusted with the deposits of
the sea. Elsewhere are arcades quite intact, piled up story upon story, the bright sky appearing
behind them, and above, along the dull red brickwork is a verdant head-dress of plants, waving
and rustling in the midst of the ethereal blue.

Here are mystic depths, wherein the bedewed shade prolongs itself among mysterious shadows.
Into these the ivy descends, and anemones, fennel, and mallows fringe their brinks. Shafts
of columns lie half-buried under climbing vines and heaps of rubbish, while luxuriant clover
carpets the surrounding slopes. Small green oaks, with round tops, innumerable green shrubs,
and myriads of gillyflowers cling to the various projections, nestle in the hollows, and deck
its crest with their yellow clusters. All these murmur in the breeze, and the birds are singing
in the midst of the imposing silence....

You ascend, I know not how many stories, and, on the summit, find the pavement of the upper
chambers to consist of checkered squares of marble; owing to the shrubs and plants that have
taken root among them, these are disjoined in places, a fresh bit of mosaic sometimes appearing
intact on removing a layer of earth. Here were sixteen hundred seats of polished marble. In
the Baths of Diocletian there were places for three thousand two hundred bathers. From this
elevation, on casting your eyes around, you see, on the plain, lines of ancient aqueducts radiating
in all directions and losing themselves in the distance, and, on the side of Albano, three
other vast ruins, masses of red and black arcades, shattered and disintegrated brick by brick,
and corroded by time.

You descend and take another glance. The hall of the "piscine" is a hundred and twenty paces
long; that in which the bathers disrobed is eighty feet in height; the whole is covered with
marble, and with such beautiful marble that mantel ornaments are now made of its fragments.
In the sixteenth century the Farnese Hercules was discovered here, and the Torso and Venus
Callipygis, and I know not how many other masterpieces; and in the seventeenth century hundreds
of statues. No people, probably, will ever again display the same luxurious conveniences, the
same diversions, and especially the same order of beauty, as that which the Romans displayed
in Rome.

Here only can you comprehend this assertion--a civilization other than our own, other and different,
but in its kind as complete and as elegant. It is another animal, but equally perfect, like
the mastodon, previous to the modern elephant.

THE AQUEDUCT BUILDERS[15]

BY RODOLFO LANCIANI

One of the praises bestowed by Cicero on the founder of the city is that "he selected a district
very rich in springs." A glance at the plan will at once prove the accuracy of the statement.
Twenty-three springs have been described within the walls, several of which are still in existence;
others have disappeared owing to the increase of modern soil. "For four hundred and forty-one
years," says Frontinus, "the Romans contented themselves with such water as they could get
from the Tiber, from wells, and from springs. Some of these springs are still held in great
veneration on account of their health-restoring qualities, like the spring of the Camoenae,
that of Apollo, and that of Juturna."

The first aqueduct, that of the "Aqua Appia," is the joint work of Appius Claudius Cæcus and
C. Plautius Venox, censors in 312 B.C. The first built the channel, the second discovered the
springs 1,153 meters northeast of the sixth and seventh milestones of the Via Collatina. They
are still to be seen, much reduced in volume, at the bottom of some stone quarries near the
farmhouse of La Rustica.

The second aqueduct was begun in 272 B.C. by Manius Curius Dentatus, censor, and finished three
years later by Fulvius Flaccus. The water was taken from the river Anio 850 meters above St.
Cosimato, on the road from Tivoli to Arsoli (Valeria). The course of the channel can be traced
as far as Gallicano; from Gallicano to Rome it is uncertain....

In 144 B.C. the Senate, considering that the increase of the population had diminished the
rate of distribution of water (from 530 to 430 liters per head), determined that the old aqueducts
of the Appia and the Anio should be repaired, and a new one built, the appropriation for both
works being 8,000,000 sesterces, or 1,760,000 lire.

The execution of the scheme was entrusted to Q. Marcius Rex. He selected a group of springs
at the foot of the Monte della Prugna, in the territory of Arsoli, 4,437 meters to the right
of the thirty-sixth milestone of the Via Valeria; and after many years of untiring efforts
he succeeded in making a display of the water on the highest platform of the Capitol. Agrippa
restored the aqueduct in 33 B.C.; Augustus doubled the volume of the water in 5 B.C. by the
addition of the Aqua Augusta. In 196 Septimius Severus brought in a new supply for the use
of his Thermae Severianae; in 212-213 Caracalla built a branch aqueduct, four miles long, for
the use of his baths; in 305-306 Diocletian did the same thing for his great thermæ; and, finally,
Arcadius and Honorius devoted to the restoration of the aqueduct the money seized from Count
Gildo, the African rebel.

None of the Roman aqueducts are eulogized by Frontinus like the Claudian. He calls it "a work
most magnificently done," and after demonstrating in more than one way that the volume of the
springs collected by Claudius amounted to 4,607 quinariae, he says that there was a reserve
of 1,600 always ready.

The works, began by Caligula in A.D. 38, lasted fourteen years, the water having reached Rome
only on August 1, 52 (the birthday of Claudius). The course of the aqueduct was first around
the slopes of the Monte Ripoli, like that of the Marcia and of the Anio Vetus. Domitian shortened
it by several miles by boring a tunnel 4,950 meters long through the Monte Affiano. Length
of channel, 68,750 meters, of which 15,000 was on arches; volume per day, 209,252 cubic meters.
The Claudia was used for the Imperial table; a branch aqueduct, 2,000 meters long, left the
main channel at Spem Veterem (Porta Maggiore), and following the line of the Via Caelimontana
(Villa Wolkonsky), of the Campus Caelimontan (Lateran), and of the street now called di S.
Stefano Rotondo, reached the temple of Claudius by the church of SS. Giovanni e Paolo, and
the Imperial palace by the church of St. Bonaventura.

The Anio Novus, like the Vetus, was at first derived from the river of the same name at the
forty-second milestone of the road to Subiaco, great precautions being taken for purifying
the water. The works were begun by Caligula in A.D. 38, and completed by Claudius on August
1, 52, on a most magnificent scale, some of the arches reaching the height of thirty-two meters
above ground; and there were eight miles of them. Yet, in spite of the purifying reservoir,
and of the clear springs of the Rivus Herculaneus (Fosso di Fioggio), which had been mixed
with the water from the river, the Anio Novus was hardly ever drinkable. Whenever a shower
fell on the Simbruine mountains, the water would get troubled and saturated with mud and carbonate
of lime. Trajan improved its condition by carrying the head of the aqueduct higher up the valley,
where Nero had created three artificial lakes for the adornment of his Villa Sublacensis. These
lakes served more efficiently as "purgatories," than the artificial basin of Caligula, nine
miles below. The Anio Novus reached Rome in its own channel after a course of 86,964 meters,
but for the last seven miles it ran on the same arches with the Aqua Claudia. The Anio Novus
was the largest of all Roman aqueducts, discharging nearly three hundred thousand cubic meters
per day.

There are two places in the suburbs of Rome where these marvelous arches of the Claudia and
Anio Novus can be seen to advantage; one is the Torre Fiscale, three miles outside the Porta
S. Giovanni on the Albano road (to be reached also from the Tavolato station, on the upper
Albano railway); the other is the Vicolo del Mandrione, which leaves the Labicana one mile
outside the Porta Maggiore and falls into the Tusculana at the place called Porta Furba.

THE QUARRIES AND BRICKS OF THE ANCIENT CITY[16]

BY RODOLFO LANCIANI

The materials used in Roman constructions are the "lapis ruber" (tufa); the "lapis Albanus"
(peperino); the "lapis Gabinus" (sperone); the "lapis Tiburtinus" (travertino); the silex ("selce");
and bricks and tiles of various kinds. The cement was composed of pozzolana and lime. Imported
marbles came into fashion toward the end of the republic, and became soon after the pride and
glory of Rome....

The only material which the first builders of Rome found at hand was the volcanic conglomerate
called tufa. The quality of the stone used in those early days was far from perfect. The walls
of the Palatine hill and of the Capitoline citadel were built of material quarried on the spot--a
mixture of charred pumice-stones and reddish volcanic sand. The quarries used for the fortification
of the Capitol were located at the foot of the hill toward the Argiletum, and were so important
as to give their name, Lautumiae, to the neighboring district. It is probable that the prison
called Tullianum, from a jet of water, "tullus," which sprang from the rock, was originally
a portion of this quarry. The tufa blocks employed by Servius Tullius for the building of the
city walls, and of the agger, appear to be of three qualities--yellowish, reddish, and gray;
the first, soft and easily broken up, seems to have been quarried from the Little Aventine,
near the church of St. Saba. The galleries of this quarry, much disfigured by medieval and
modern use, can be followed to a considerable distance, altho the collapsing of the vaults
makes it dangerous to visit them....

The quarries of the third quality were, or rather one of them was, discovered on February 7,
1872, in the Vigna Querini, outside the Porta St. Lorenzo, near the first milestone of the
Vicolo di Valle Cupa. It was a surface quarry, comprising five trenches 16 feet wide, 9 feet
deep. Some of the blocks, already squared, were lying on the floor of the trenches, others
were detached on two or three sides only, the size of others was simply traced on the rock
by vertical or horizontal lines. This tufa, better known by the name of cappellaccio, is very
bad. The only buildings in which it was used, besides the inner wall of the Servian agger,
are the platform of the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, in the gardens of the German Embassy,
and the "puticuli" in the burial-grounds of the Esquiline. Its use must have been given up
before the end of the period of the Kings, in consequence of the discovery of better quarries
on the right bank of the Tiber, at the foot of the hills now called Monte Verde....

They cover a space one mile in length and a quarter of a mile wide on each side of the valley
of Pozzo Pantaléo. In fact, this valley, which runs from the Via Portuensis toward the lake
of the Villa Pamphili, seems to be artificial; I mean, produced by the extraction of the rock
of millions of cubic meters in the course of twenty-four centuries. If the work of the ancient
quarrymen could be freed from the loose material which conceals it from view, we should possess
within a few minutes' drive from the Porta Portese a reproduction of the famous mines of El
Masarah, with beds of rock cut into steps and terraces, with roads and lanes, shafts, inclines,
underground passages, and outlets for the discharge of rain-water. When a quarry had given
out, its galleries were filled up with the refuse of the neighboring ones--chips left over
after the squaring of the blocks; so that, in many cases, the color and texture of the chips
do not correspond with those of the quarry in which they are found. This layer of refuse, transformed
by time into humus, and worked upon by human and atmospheric forces, has given the valley a
different aspect, so that it looks as if it were the work not of quarrymen, but of nature.

Tufa may be found used in many existing monuments of ancient Rome, such as the drains of the
middle and southern basin of the left bank, the channels and arches of the Marcia and Anio
Vetus, the Servian walls, the temples of Fortuna Virilis, of Hercules Magnus Custos, the Rostra,
the embankment of the Tiber, etc. The largest and most magnificent quarries in the suburban
district are the so-called Grotte della Cervara. No words can convey an idea of their size
and of the regularity of their plan. They seem to be the work of a fanciful architect who has
hewn out of the rock halls and galleries, courts and vestibules, and imitated the forms of
an Assyrian palace.

For the study of the peperino mines, which contain a stone special to the Alban district, formed
by the action of hot water on gray volcanic cinders, the reader should follow on foot the line
of the new Albano railway, from the place called Il Sassone to the town of Marino. Many of
the valleys in this district, now made beautiful by vineyards and oliveyards, owe their existence
to the pickax of the Roman stonecutter, like the valley of Pozzo Pantaléo. The most curious
sight is a dolmen or isolated rock 10 meters high, left in the center of one of the quarries
to certify the thickness of the bed of rock excavated. In fact, the whole district is very
interesting both to the archeologist and to the paysagiste. The mines of Marino, still worked
in the neighborhood of the railway station, would count, like the Grotte della Cervara, among
the wonders of the Campagna, were they known to the student as they deserve to be.

The principal Roman buildings in which the lapis Albanus has been used are: the Claudian aqueduct,
the Cloaca Maxima, the temples of Antonius and Faustina, of Cybele, of the Eventus Bonus, of
Neptune, the inclosure wall of the Forum Augustum, Forum Transitorium, and Forum Pacis, the
Porticus Argonautarum, Porticus Pompeii, the Ustrinum of the Appian Way, etc. The sarcophagus
of Cornelius Scipio Barbatus in the Vatican museum, and the tomb of the Tibicines in the Museo
Municipale al Celio are also of this stone.

Travertine stone was quarried in the plains of Tivoli at places now called Le Caprine, Casal
Bernini, and Il Barco. This last was reopened after an interval of many centuries by Count
G. Brazza, brother of the African explorer. Lost in the wilderness and overgrown with shrubs,
it had not been examined, I believe, since the visit of Brocchi. It can be reached by stopping
at the station of the Aquae Albulae, on the Tivoli line, and following the ancient road which
led to the works. This road, twice as wide as the Appian Way, is flanked by substructures,
and is not paved, but macadamized. Parallel with it runs an aqueduct which supplied the works
with motive power, derived probably from the sulfur springs. There are also remains of tombs,
one of which, octagonal in shape, serves as a foundation to the farmhouse del Barco.

The most remarkable monument of the whole group is the Roman quarry from which five and a half
million cubic meters of travertine have been extracted, as proved by the measurement of the
hollow space between the two opposite vertical sides. That this is the most important ancient
quarry of travertine, and the largest one used by the Romans, is proved, in the first place,
by its immense size. The sides show a frontage of more than two and a half kilometers; the
surface amounts to 500,000 square meters. The sides are quite perpendicular, and have the peculiarity
of projecting buttresses, at an angle of 90 degrees. Some of these buttresses are isolated
on three sides, and still preserve the grooves, by means of which they could be separated from
the solid mass....

In order to keep the bottom of the works clean and free from the movement of the carts, for
the action of the cranes, and for the maneuvres of the workmen, the chips, or useless product
of the squaring of the blocks, were transported to a great distance, as far as the banks of
the Anio, and there piled up to a great height. This is the origin of that chain of hills which
runs parallel to the river, and of whose artificial formation no one, as far as I know, had
the least suspicion. One of these hills, visible from every point of the neighboring district,
from Hadrian's villa as well as from the Sulfur Baths, is elliptical in shape, 22 meters high,
90 meters long, and 65 meters wide. It can with reason be compared with our Testaccio. It is
easy to imagine how immense must have been the number of blocks cut from the Cava del Barco
during the period of the formation of this hill alone. Another proof of the antiquity of the
quarry, and of its abandonment from imperial times down to our own day, is given by this fact....

There are three collections of brick-stamps in Rome; one, of little value, in the Kircherian
museum; the second in the last room of the Vatican library, past the "Nozze aldobrandine;"
the third and best in the Museo Municipale al Celio. This last contains over a thousand specimens,
and a unique set of the products of Roman kilns. In fact, the first hall of the Museo is set
apart exclusively for the study of ancient building and decorative materials.

Roman bricks were square, oblong, triangular, or round, the latter being used only to build
columns in the Pompeiian style. The largest bricks that have been discovered in my time measure
1.05 meters in length. They were set into an arch of one of the great stairs leading to the
avenue or boulevard established in Imperial times on the top of the agger of Servius. Roman
bricks are very often stamped with a seal, the legend of which contains the names of the owner
and the manager of the kilns, of the maker of the tile, of the merchant entrusted with the
sale of the products, and of the consuls under whose term of office the bricks were made. These
indications are not necessarily found all in one seal.

The most important of them is the consular date, because it helps the student to determine,
within certain limits, the date of the building itself. The rule, however, is far from being
absolute, and before fixing the date of a Roman structure from that of its brick stamps one
must take into consideration many other points of circumstantial evidence. When we examine,
for instance, the grain warehouses at Ostia, or Hadrian's villa at Tivoli, and find that their
walls have never undergone repairs, that their masonry is characteristic of the first quarter
of the second century, that their bricks bear the dates of Hadrian's age and no others, we
may rest assured that the stamps speak the truth. Their evidence is, in such a case, conclusive.
But if the bricks are variously dated, or bear the names of various kilns, and not of one or
two only, then their value as an evidence of the date of a building is diminished, if not lost
altogether....

The bricks, again, occasionally bear curious signs, such as footmarks of chickens, dogs, or
pigs, which stept over them while still fresh, impressions of coins and medals, words or sentences
scratched with a nail, etc. A bricklayer, who had perhaps seen better times in his youth, wrote
on a tile the first verse of the Aeneid.

The great manufacturing center of Roman bricks was the district between the viae Triumphalis,
Cornelia, and the two Aureliae, now called the Monti della Creta, which includes the southern
slopes of the Vatican ridge and the northern of the Janiculum. Here also, as at Pozzo Pantaléo,
the traces of the work of man are simply gigantic. The valleys del Gelsomino, delle Fornaci,
del Vicolo delle Cave, della Balduina, and a section of the Val d'Inferno, are not the work
of nature, but the result of excavations for "creta figulina," which began 2,300 years ago,
and have never been interrupted since. A walk through the Monti della Creta will teach the
student many interesting things. The best point of observation is a bluff between the Vicolo
della Cave and the Vicolo del Gelsomino, marked with the word "Ruderi" and with the altitude
of 75 meters, in the military map of the suburbs. The bluff rises 37 meters above the floor
of the brick-kilns of the Gelsomino....

Roman bricks were exported to all the shores of the Mediterranean; they have been found in
the Riviera, on the coasts of Benetia, of Narbonensis, of Spain and Africa, and in the island
of Sardinia. The brick-making business must have been very remunerative, if we judge from the
rank and wealth of many personages who had an interest in it. Many names of emperors appear
in brick-stamps, and even more of empresses and princesses of the imperial family.

PALM SUNDAY IN ST. PETER'S[17]

BY GRACE GREENWOOD (Mrs. Lippincott)

Yesterday began Holy Week with the imposing but tedious ceremonies of Palm Sunday at St. Peter's.
At nine o'clock in the morning we were in our places--seats erected for the occasion near the
high altar, drest in the costume prescribed by church etiquette--black throughout, with black
veils on our heads. At about ten the Pope entered, and the rites, ordinary and extraordinary,
the masses and processions, continued until one.

The entrance of the Pope into this his grandest basilica was, as usual, a beautiful and brilliant
sight. He came splendidly vested, wearing his miter, and borne in his chair of state under
a gorgeous canopy, between the flabelli--two enormous fans of white peacock feathers. He was
preceded and followed by cardinals, bishops, arch-bishops, monsignori, abbots, the apostolic
prothonotaries, generals of the religious orders, officers of the state, of the army, of his
household, and the Guardia Nobile.

He took his seat on the throne, and received the homage of the cardinals, who, kneeling, kissed
his right hand. This is a ceremony which is always gone through with in the most formal, mechanical,
business-like manner possible. Some palms, not in natural branches, but cut and wreathed in
various strange, fantastic forms, lay on the altar. The Pope's chief sacristan took one of
these, a deacon another, a sub-deacon a third, and knelt at the foot of the throne. His Holiness
read prayers over them, sprinkled them with holy water, and incensed them three times. One
of these is held beside the throne by the prince assistant during the service; another is borne
by the Pope when in procession.

After this, multitudes of palms were brought up for the Papal benediction. First came the cardinals,
each, as he received his palm from the Pope, kissing it, the right hand and knee of His Holiness;
then the bishops, who only kissed the palm and his right knee; then the abbots, who were only
entitled to kiss the palm and his foot; then the governor of Rome, the prince assistant, the
auditor, the treasurer, the maggiordomo, the secretaries, the chamberlains, the mace bearers,
the deacons and sub-deacons, generals of the religious orders and priests in general, masters
of the ceremonies, singers, clerks of the Papal chapel, students of Roman colleges, foreign
ministers and their attachés, Italian, French, Spanish, Austrian, Russian, Prussian officers,
noblemen and gentlemen, all came up in turn, knelt, received blest palms, and kissed the foot
of the Sovereign Pontiff.

During the distribution of the palms, anthems were sung by the choir, who were caged up in
a sort of trellice workbox at the right of the altar. This long but brilliantly picturesque
ceremony through, the Pope, after washing his hands, again mounted into his "sedia gestatoria,"
and bearing his palm, preceded and followed by all those to whom he had given palms, passed
slowly down the nave of the church, blessing the kneeling and bending multitude right and left.
This procession of palms was very striking and gorgeous from the beauty and variety of military
arms and uniforms, and more than royal richness of the priestly vestments, the gleam of miters
and maces, and of innumerable sacred symbols and insignia.

THE ELECTION OF A POPE[18]

BY CARDINAL WISEMAN

The interval between the close of one pontificate and the commencement of another is a period
of some excitement, and necessarily of much anxiety. Time is required for the electors to assemble,
from distant provinces, or even foreign countries; and this is occupied in paying the last
tribute of respect and affection to the departed Pontiff. His body is embalmed, clothed in
the robes of his office, of the penitential color, and laid on a couch of state within one
of the chapels in St. Peter's, so that the faithful may not only see it, but kiss its feet.
This last act of reverence to the mortal remains of the immortal Pius VIII., the writer well
recollects performing.

These preliminaries occupy three days; during which rises, as if by magic, or from the crypts
below, an immense catafalque, a colossal architectural structure, which fills the nave of that
basilica illustrated by inscriptions, and adorned by statuary. Before this huge monument, for
nine days funeral rites are performed, closed by a funeral oration. For the body of the last
Pope there is a uniform resting-place in St. Peter's--a plain sarcophagus, of marbled stucco,
hardly noticed by the traveler, over a door beside the choir, on which is simply painted the
title of the latest Pontiff. On the death of his successor it is broken down at the top, the
coffin is removed to the under-church, and that of the new claimant for repose is substituted.
This change takes place late in the evening, and is considered private. I can not recollect
whether it was on this or on a subsequent occasion that I witnessed it with my college companions....

In the afternoon of the last day of the novendiali, as they are called, the cardinals assemble
in a church near the Quirinal palace, and walk thence in procession, accompanied by their conclavisiti,
a secretary, a chaplain, and a servant or two, to the great gate of the royal residence, in
which one will remain as master and supreme lord. Of course the hill is crowded by persons
lining the avenue kept open for the procession. Cardinals never before seen by them, or not
for many years, pass before them; eager eyes scan and measure them, and try to conjecture,
from fancied omens in eye, or figure, or expression, who will shortly be the sovereign of their
fair city, and, what is more, the Head of the Catholic Church from the rising to the setting sun.

Equal they pass the threshold of that gate; they share together the supreme rule, temporal
and spiritual; there is still embosomed in them all the voice yet silent, that soon will sound,
from one tongue, over all the world, and the dormant germ of that authority which will soon
again be concentrated in one man alone. To-day they are all equal; perhaps to-morrow one will
sit enthroned, and all the rest will kiss his feet; one will be sovereign, the others his subjects;
one the shepherd, and the others his flock....

While we have been thus sketching, hastily and imperfectly, one of many who passed almost unnoticed
in the solemn procession to conclave, on the 2d of September, 1823, we may suppose the doors
to have been inexorably closed on those who composed it. The conclave, which formerly used
to take place in the Vatican, was on this occasion, and has been subsequently, held in the
Quirinal palace. This noble building, known equally by the name of Monte Cavallo, consists
of a large quadrangle, round which run the papal apartments. From this stretches out, along
a whole street, an immense wing, its two upper floors divided into a great number of small
but complete suites of apartments, occupied permanently, or occasionally, by persons attached
to the Court.

During conclave these are allotted, literally so, to the cardinals, each of whom lives apart,
with his attendants. His food is brought daily from his own house, and is examined, and delivered
to him in the shape of "broken victuals," by the watchful guardians of the turns and lattices,
through which alone anything, even conversation, can penetrate into the seclusion of that sacred
retreat. For a few hours, the first evening, the doors are left open, and the nobility, the
diplomatic body, and in fact all presentable persons, may roam from cell to cell, paying a
brief compliment to their occupants, perhaps speaking the same good wishes to fifty, which
they know can be accomplished in only one.

After that all is closed; a wicket is left accessible for the entrance of any cardinal who
is not yet arrived; but every aperture is jealously guarded by faithful janitors, judges and
prelates of various tribunals, who relieve one another. Every letter even is opened and read,
that no communications may be held with the outer world. The very street on which the wing
of the conclave looks is barricaded and guarded by a picket at each end; and as, fortunately,
there are no private residences opposite, and all the buildings have access from the back,
no inconvenience is thereby created.

While conclave lasts, the administrative power rests in the hands of the Cardinal Chamberlain,
who strikes his own coins during its continuance; and he is assisted by three cardinals, called
the "Heads of Orders," because they represent the three orders in the sacred college, of bishops,
priests and deacons. The ambassadors of the great powers receive fresh credentials to the conclave,
and proceed in state, to present them to this delegation, at the grille. An address, carefully
prepared, is delivered by the envoy, and receives a well-pondered reply from the presiding
cardinal.

Twice a day the cardinals meet in the chapel contained within the palace, and there, on tickets
so arranged that the voter's name can not be seen, write the name of him for whom they give
their suffrage. These papers are examined in their presence, and if the number of votes given
to any one do not constitute the majority, they are burned, in such a manner that the smoke,
issuing through a flue, is visible to the crowd usually assembled in the square outside.

Some day, instead of this usual signal to disperse, the sound of pick and hammer is heard,
and a small opening is seen in the wall which had temporarily blocked up the great window over
the palace gateway. At last the masons of the conclave have opened a rude door, through which
steps out on the balcony the first Cardinal Deacon, and proclaims to the many, or to the few,
who may happen to be waiting, that they again possess a sovereign and a Pontiff.

AN AUDIENCE WITH PIUS X[19]

BY MARY EMOGENE HAZELTINE

We arrived in Rome at three in the afternoon, with letters which ensured us an audience with
the Pope. A friend, long resident in Rome, who advised us to present them at once, accompanied
us to the Vatican. Passing through an interesting part of the city, including the St. Angelo
Bridge across the Tiber, we soon found ourselves in the world-famous Colonnade of St. Peter's.
Ascending the steps leading to the Vatican, we passed the Swiss Guard in their famous uniforms
designed by Michelangelo, and climbed what seemed like endless stairs, passing guards at almost
every turn, who pointed out the way indicated by the address on our credentials.

Arriving at an anteroom, a priestly secretary, speaking excellent English, read our letter
with what seemed to us, from the expression of his face, great interest and evident approval.
Why should this not have been? Our letter was from the Apostolic Delegate then in Washington--the
Pope's own representative in America. It was in Italian, in the highest official form, and
conveyed the intelligence that we were traveling in Italy for a brief vacation, mentioned all
four of us by name, and said that, while we were not Catholics, we respected the faith and
would carefully observe all the forms prescribed for an audience. The monseigneur whom we were
to see was at that time engaged with several bishops. Because of this, we were asked to present
ourselves at the same hour on Saturday, meanwhile leaving our letter.

Promptly at the hour I was again at the door of the major domo, Monseigneur Bisleti, to be
received again by the priestly secretary, by whom I was taken into the palatial rooms of the
monseigneur. A moment here was sufficient to explain my errand and receive from the monseigneur
the long-coveted permission, which I found had already been made out in due form for four persons.
Our cards entitled us to admission on the following day, which made necessary unexpected haste
in arranging for the official costume of black. Fortunately we had all brought black veils
and some of us either gowns or skirts. With help from others, we secured one or two necessary
waists, and from our hostess obtained the rosaries I wished to have blest by the Pope. Our
hostess then gave us a dress rehearsal, in order that we might fully understand what to us
would be an imposing ceremony. An audience is a great function and the procedure accordingly
is rigid.

On reaching the Vatican next day, we were directed by the Swiss Guard, not to the major domo's
apartments as before, but through a court and thence up the grandest of staircases in three
long flights, the walls lined with beautiful marbles more wonderful than many pictures, the
light coming through magnificent stained-glass windows. In every sense here was a palatial,
an imperial, entrance. At the head of the stairway we were met by gorgeous chamberlains, the
body servants of the Pope, clad in superb magenta brocaded velvet, with knee breeches, magenta
silk stockings, and great silver buckles on their shoes. Streamers hanging from their arms
at the back, added to the official appearance of these men in their gorgeous uniforms.

We were shown through a magnificent antechamber, and then into a series of reception rooms,
through which we were motioned on, until we came to the fourth, where were just four chairs
which seemed to be waiting for us four. Swiss guards patrolled the rooms, and others--chamberlains,
I suppose. We had a full half hour in which to wait here, but we could use it to advantage,
in watching the gathering company, and viewing the magnificent room, hung as it was with rich
red moire silk, as were all others of the suite. The ladies in black garb became very effective
figures in this brilliant setting. There were many beautiful tapestries in the rooms, one room
having a tapestried frieze. The furniture was massive, either of inlaid wood or heavy gilt,
and the floors of beautiful inlaid marble. It is not possible to give any adequate idea of
these stately rooms, nor of their exquisite appointments; nor yet of the gathering company,
for many high officials of the church passed before us and through to rooms beyond, which added
to the interest of the occasion and the splendor of the scene.

We learned soon that this was to be no ordinary audience, but a special one granted to alumni
of the American College in Rome. A few days before we left New York, a large company of American
priests, graduates of the American College, had sailed on a chartered steamer to celebrate
the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the college, from which they had received holy
orders. This audience had been specially arranged for them. We were therefore more than favored
in having an audience at the same time, a fact due probably to the credentials with which we
had come provided. We now understood that the officials of the church who had entered this
room were our own American bishops. With them had however come others of high rank. Over their
priestly robes of black they wore rich purple silk capes, falling to the floor, and purple
sashes. (There are, of course, technical terms for these garments, but I do not know them.)
The special body guard of the Pope, three men chosen from the Palatine guard, and in soldier's
uniform, now passed through the room with a noble guard of the Knights of Malta and Count Moroni,
also in uniform, with chapeau, feathered with plumes of black and white.

At exactly half after eleven, Monseigneur Bisleti, watch in hand, bustled through, followed
by bishops and priests. We were at once on our knees, for His Holiness was seen to be approaching
from rooms beyond. As he advanced we could see his small figure, clad in white, surrounded
by court attendants, American bishops, an archbishop, the Palatine guard, Monseigneur Bisleti,
and the Knight of Malta. Between us and the doorway through which he approached, stood a girl
of twelve, in white garments and veil. She had come from her first communion. Near her was
a Franciscan monk, who evidently had just returned from some mission field, for he was bronzed,
and haggard, and worn as to his garments. As the Pope passed he gave a special word of blessing
to the monk, and a smile to the child.

The ceremony of the audience itself was simple. The Pope walked past the kneeling people, giving
to each his hand. This each one took, kissing his ring. Filling the center of the room, as
we were kneeling around the sides, were the priestly courtiers, the Papal delegate, in gray
robes, a prominent figure among them. The Pope passed on through several rooms filled with
waiting priests. We were then all bidden to follow to the throne room, for a special ceremony.
An audience generally ends when the Pope leaves the room in which he receives you, giving his
blessing to all as he leaves.

In the throne room now the American alumni were to present their addresses to the Pope. As
we entered, undergraduates of the college were discovered already there singing. Until the
addresses were read, the singing was continued. It was all a magnificent sight, the little
white father on his splendid throne, his court about him, his special body servant holding
his red cape (to be used in case of drafts), and, as a background for all the colors of the
court scene, several hundred black-robed priests.

Monseigneur Kennedy, rector of the college, read an address, as did Rev. Father Wall of Baltimore,
president of the association. To these the Pope replied, reading from a manuscript. After this,
he rose, mingled with his entourage, and chatted pleasantly with bishops and others. A picture
was then taken of the court, the priests and students. These American priests and undergraduates
were a fine company of men. The Pope finally gave his blessing to all who were assembled in
the room, and the great function was over.

THE ASCENT OF THE DOME OF ST. PETER'S[20]

BY GEORGE STILLMAN HILLARD

The visitor to St. Peter's should not fail to ascend to the dome; a long journey, but involving
no danger and not a great amount of fatigue. From the church to the roof the passage is by
an inclined plane of pavement, with so gradual an ascent that loaded mules pass up without
difficulty. In stepping out upon the roof, it is difficult to believe that we are more than
one hundred and fifty feet from the ground, or that so extensive an architectural surface could
have been reared in air by the patient labor of men's hands. It rather seems as if a little
village had been lifted up by some geological convulsion. Here are wide spaces to walk about
in, houses for human habitation, a fountain playing, and all the signs of life. The views are
everywhere fine, and one can fancy that the air is purer and the sky more blue than to those
left below. The dome soars high above the eye, and a new sense of its magnitude seizes upon
the mind. The two cupolas which flank the façade are upward of one hundred feet high, and the
five smaller ones which crown the chapels are of great size; but here they seem like dwarfs
clinging about a giant's knee.

The dome of St. Peter's, as is well known, is double; and between the outer and inner wall
is a series of winding passages and staircases, by which the ascent is made to the top. The
length of these passages and staircases, their number, and the time it takes to traverse them,
are a new revelation of the size of this stupendous structure. We begin to comprehend the genius
and courage which planned and executed a work so novel and so bold. From the galleries inside,
the view of the interior below is most striking. It looks as the earth may look from a balloon.
The men moving upon the pavement appear like that "small infantry warred on by cranes"; and
even the baldacchino hardly swells beyond the dimensions of a candelabrum.

At the base of the ball, a railing, unseen from below, enables the visitor whose nerves are
tolerably good to enjoy an extensive and beautiful prospect, embracing a region interesting
not merely to the eye but to the mind: the cradle of that mighty Roman race which here began
its ever-widening circle of conquest and annexation. It comprises the Campagna, the Tiber,
the distant Mediterranean, the Apennines, the Alban and Sabine hills, and the isolated bulk
of Soracte. From no point on earth can the eye rest upon so many spots on which the undying
light of human interest lingers.

From this place the ascent is made to the interior of the ball itself, into which most travelers
climb, probably more for the sake of saying that they have been there than anything else. Tho
the ball looks like a mere point from below, it is nearly eight feet in diameter; and the interior
will hold a dozen persons without inconvenience. Altho I visited it on a winter's day, the
atmosphere was extremely hot and uncomfortable, from the effect of the sun's rays upon the
gilded bronze. By means of an exterior ladder, it is possible to climb to the foot of the cross;
a feat which few landsmen would have the nerve to undertake.

SANTA MARIA MAGGIORE[21]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

We followed the street which ascends and descends, bordered with palaces and old hedges of
thorn, as far as Santa Maria Maggiore. This basilica, standing upon a large eminence, surmounted
with its domes, rises nobly upward, at once simple and complete, and when you enter it, it
affords still greater pleasure. It belongs to the fifth century; on being rebuilt at a later
period, the general plan, its antique idea, was preserved. An ample nave, with a horizontal
roof, is sustained by two rows of white Ionic columns. You are rejoiced to see so fine an effect
obtained by such simple means; you might almost imagine yourself in a Greek temple.

It is said that a temple of Juno was robbed of these columns. Each of them bare and polished,
with no other ornament than the delicate curves of its small capital, is of healthful and charming
beauty. You appreciate here the good sense, and all that is agreeable in genuine natural construction,
the file of trunks of trees which bear the beams, resting flat and providing a long walk. All
that has since been added is barbarous, and first, the two chapels of Sixtus V. and Paul V.,
with their paintings by Guido, Josepin, and Cigoli, and the sculptures of Bernini, and the
architecture of Fontana and Flaminio. These are celebrated names, and money has been prodigally
spent, but instead of the slight means with which the ancients produced a great effect, the
moderns produce a petty effect with great means.

When the bewildered eye is satiated with the elaborate sweep of these arches and domes, with
the splendors of polychromatic marbles, with friezes and pedestals of agate, with columns of
oriental jasper, with angels hanging by their feet, and with all these bas-reliefs of bronze
and gold, the visitor hastens to get away from it as he would to escape from a confectioner's
shop. It seems as if this grand, glittering box, gilded and labored from pavement to lantern,
caught up and tore at every point of its finery the delicate web of poetic reverie; the slender
profile of the least of the columns impresses one far more than any of this display of the
art of upholsterers and parvenus. Similarly to this the façade, loaded with balustrades, and
round and angular pediments, and statues roosting on its stones, is a "hôtel-de-ville" frontage.

The campanile, belonging to the fourteenth century, alone presents an agreeable object; at
that time it was one of the towers of the city, a distinctive sign which marked it on the old
plans so black and sharp, and stamped it forever on the still corporeal imaginations of monks
and wayfarers. There are traces of every age in these old basilicas; you see the diverse states
of Christianity, at first enshrined in pagan forms, and then traversing the Middle Ages and
the Renaissance to muffle itself up finally, and bedeck itself with modern finery. The Byzantine
epoch has left its imprint in the mosaics of the great nave and the apsis, and in its bloodless
and lifeless Christs and Virgins, so many staring specters motionless on their gold backgrounds
and red panels, the fantoms of an extinct art and a vanished society.

THE BURIAL PLACE OF KEATS AND SHELLEY[24]

BY NATHANIEL PARKER WILLIS

A beautiful pyramid, a hundred and thirteen feet high, built into the ancient wall of Rome,
is the proud "Sepulcher of Caius Cestius." It is the most imperishable of the antiquities,
standing as perfect after eighteen hundred years as if it were built but yesterday. Just beyond
it, on the declivity of a hill, over the ridge of which the wall passes, crowning it with two
moldering towers, lies the Protestant burying-ground.

It looks toward Rome, which appears in the distance, between Mount Aventine and a small hill
called Mont Testaccio, and leaning to the south-east, the sun lies warm and soft upon its banks,
and the grass and wild flowers are there the earliest and tallest of the Campagna. I have been
here to-day, to see the graves of Keats and Shelley. With a cloudless sky and the most delicious
air ever breathed, we sat down upon the marble slab laid over the ashes of poor Shelley, and
read his own lament over Keats, who sleeps just below, at the foot of the hill.

The cemetery is rudely formed into three terraces, with walks between, and Shelley's grave
and one other, without a name, occupy a small nook above, made by the projections of a moldering
wall-tower, and crowded with ivy and shrubs, and a peculiarly fragrant yellow flower, which
perfumes the air around for several feet. The avenue by which you ascend from the gate is lined
with high bushes of the marsh-rose in the most luxuriant bloom, and all over the cemetery the
grass is thickly mingled with flowers of every dye. In his preface to his lament over Keats,
Shelley says:

"He was buried in the romantic and lonely cemetery of the Protestants, under the pyramid which
is the tomb of Cestius, and the massy walls and towers, now moldering and desolate, which formed
the circuit of ancient Rome.

If Shelley had chosen his own grave at the time, he would have selected the very spot where
he has since been laid--the most sequestered and flowery nook of the place he describes so
feelingly.

On the second terrace of the declivity are ten or twelve graves, two of which bear the names
of Americans who have died in Rome. A portrait carved in bas-relief, upon one of the slabs,
told me, without the inscription, that one whom I had known was buried beneath. The slightly
rising mound was covered with small violets, half hidden by the grass. It takes away from the
pain with which one stands over the grave of an acquaintance or a friend, to see the sun lying
so warm upon it, and the flowers springing so profusely and cheerfully. Nature seems to have
cared for those who have died so far from home, binding the earth gently over them with grass,
and decking it with the most delicate flowers. We descended to the lower enclosure at the foot
of the slight declivity. The first grave here is that of Keats. The inscription runs thus:

"This grave contains all that was mortal of a young English poet, who, on his death-bed in
the bitterness of his heart at the malicious power of his enemies, desired these words to be
engraved on his tomb: 'Here lies one whose name was written in water.'"

He died at Rome in 1821. Every reader knows his history and the cause of his death.

Keats was, no doubt, a poet of very uncommon promise. He had all the wealth of genius within
him, but he had not learned, before he was killed by criticism, the received, and, therefore,
the best manner of producing it for the eye of the world. Had he lived longer, the strength
and richness which break continually through the affected style of "Endymion" and "Lamia" and
his other poems, must have formed themselves into some noble monuments of his powers. As it
is, there is not a poet living who could surpass the material of his "Endymion"--a poem, with
all its faults, far more full of beauties. But this is not the place for criticism. He is buried
fitly for a poet, and sleeps beyond criticism now. Peace to his ashes!

THE OLD PALACE AND THE LOGGIA[28]

BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

Every great capital has its eye; at Rome it is the Campo Vaccino; at Paris, the Boulevard des
Italiens; at Venice, the Place St. Mark; at Madrid, the Prado; at London, the Strand; at Naples,
the Via di Toledo. Rome is more Roman, Paris more Parisian, Venice more Venetian, Madrid more
Spanish, London more English, Naples more Neapolitan, in that privileged locality than anywhere
else. The eye of Florence is the Place of the Grand Duke--a beautiful eye. In fact, suppress
that Place and Florence has no more meaning--it might be another city. It is at that Place,
therefore, that every traveler ought to begin, and, moreover, had he not that intention, the
tide of pedestrians would carry him and the streets themselves would conduct him thither.

The first aspect of the Place of the Grand Duke has an effect so charming, so picturesque,
so complete, that you comprehend all at once into what an error the modern capitals like London,
Paris, St. Petersburg, fall in forming, under the pretext of squares, in their compact masses,
immense empty spaces upon which they run aground all possible and impossible modes of decoration.
One can touch with his finger the reason which makes of the Carrousel and Place de la Concorde,
great empty fields which absorb fountains, statues, arches of triumph, obelisks, candelabra,
and little gardens. All these embellishments, very pretty on paper, very agreeable also, without
doubt, viewed from a balloon, are almost lost for the spectator who can not grasp the whole,
his height only rising five feet above the ground.

A square, in order to produce a beautiful effect, ought not to be too big; it is also necessary
that it should be bordered by varied monuments of diverse elevations. The Place of the Grand
Duke at Florence unites all these conditions; bordered by monuments regular in themselves,
but different from one another, it is pleasing to the eye without wearying by a cold symmetry.

The Palace of the Seigneurie, or Old Palace, which by its imposing mass and severe elegance
at first attracts the attention, occupies a corner of the Place, instead of the middle. This
idea, a happy one, in our opinion, regrettable for those who only see architectural beauty
in geometrical regularity, is not fortuitous; it has a reason wholly Florentine. In order to
obtain perfect symmetry, it would have been necessary to build upon the detested soil of the
Ghibelline house, rebellious and proscribed by the Uberti; something that the Guelph faction,
then all-powerful, were not willing to allow the architect, Arnolfo di Lapo, to do. Learned
men contest the truth of this tradition; we will not discuss here the value of their objections.
It is certain, however, that the Old Palace gains greatly by the singularity of this location
and also leaves space for the great Fountain of Neptune and the equestrian statue of Cosmo
the First.

The name of fortress would be more appropriate than any other, for the Old Palace; it is a
great mass of stone, without columns, without frontal, without order of architecture. Time
has gilded the walls with beautiful vermilion tints which the pure blue of the sky sets off
marvelously, and the whole structure has that haughty and romantic aspect which accords well
with the idea that one forms for oneself of that old Palace of the Seigneurie, the witness,
since the date of its erection in the thirteenth century, of so many intrigues, tumults, violent
acts, and crimes. The battlements of the palace, cut square, show that it was built to that
height by the Guelph faction; the trifurcated battlements of the belfry indicate a sudden change
on the accession to power of the Ghibelline faction.

Guelphs and Ghibellines detested each other so violently that they exprest their opinions in
their garments, in the cut of their hair, in their arms, in their manner of fortifying themselves.
They feared nothing so much as to be captured by one another, and differed as much as they
possibly could. They had a special salutation after the manner of the Freemasons and the Companions
of Duty. The opinions of the ancient owners of the Old Palace at Florence can be recognized
by this characteristic; the walls of the city are crenelated squarely in the Guelph fashion,
and the tower on the ramparts has the Ghibelline battlements of swallow-tail shape.

The Vecchio Palace has for its basement several steps which were used in former times as a
species of tribune, from the top of which the magistrates and demagogs harangued the people.
Two colossal statues of marble--Hercules slaying Cacus, by Bandinelli, and David the Conqueror
of Goliath, by Michael Angelo--mount near the door their age-long watch, like two gigantic
sentinels whom someone has forgotten to relieve. The statue of David by Michael Angelo besides
the inconvenience there is in representing under a gigantic form a Biblical hero of notoriously
small size, seemed to us a trifle common and heavy, a rare defect with this master; his David
is a great big boy, fleshy, broad-backed, with monstrous biceps, a market porter waiting to
put a sack upon his back. The working of the marble is remarkable and, after all, is a fine
piece of study which would do honor to any other sculptor except Michael Angelo; but there
is lacking that Olympian mastership which characterizes the works of that superhuman sculptor.

One of the most curious features of the Old Palace is the grand salon, a hall of enormous dimensions,
which has its legend. When the Medici were driven from Florence, in 1494, Fra Girolamo Savonarola,
who directed the popular movement, proposed the idea of constructing an immense hall where
a council of a thousand citizens would elect the magistrates and regulate the affairs of the
republic. The architect Cronaca had charge of this task and acquitted himself of it with a
celerity so marvelous that Brother Savonarola caused the rumor to spread that angels descended
from heaven to help the masons and continued at night the interrupted work. The invention of
these angels tempering the mortar and carrying the hod is all done in the legendary style of
the Middle Ages and would furnish a charming subject for a picture to some ingenuous painter
of the school of Overbeck or of Hauser. In this rapid construction Cronaca displayed, if not
all his genius, at least all his agility. The work has been justly admired and often consulted
by architects.

When the Medici returned to power and transferred their residence from the Palace of the Via
Larga, which they had occupied, to the Palace of the Seigneurie, Cosmo wished to change the
Council Hall into an audience chamber, and charged the presumptuous Bacchio Bandinelli, whose
designs had attracted him, with various alterations of an important character; but the sculptor
had undoubtedly presumed too much on his talent as an architect, and in spite of the assistance
of Giuliano Baccio d'Agnolo, whom he called to his aid, he worked for ten years without being
able to conquer the difficulties which he had created for himself.

It was Vasari who raised the ceiling several feet, finished the work and decorated the walls
with a succession of frescoes which may still be seen, and which represent different episodes
in the history of Florence--combats, and captures of cities, the whole being a travesty of
antiquity, an intermingling of allegories. These frescos, painted with an intrepid and learned
mediocrity, display the commonplace tones, swelling muscles and anatomical tricks in use at
that epoch among artists.

We have already called attention to the fact that colossal dimensions are not at all necessary
to produce effect in architecture. The Loggia de Lanzi, that gem of the Place of the Grand
Duke, consists of a portico composed of four arcades, three on the façade, one in return on
the gallery of the offices. It is a miniature of a monument; but the harmony of its proportions
is so perfect that the eye in contemplating it experiences a sense of satisfaction. The nearness
of the Palace of the Seigneurie, with its compact mass, admirably sets off the elegant slenderness
of its arches and columns. The Loggia is a species of Museum in the open air. The "Perseus"
of Benvenuto Cellini, the "Judith" of Donatello, the "Rape of the Sabines" of John of Bologna,
are framed in the arcades. Six antique statues--the cardinal and monastic virtues--by Jacques,
called Pietro, a Madonna by Orgagna adorn the interior wall. Two lions, one antique, the other
modern, by Vacca, almost as good as the Greek lions of the arsenal at Venice, complete the
decoration.

The Perseus may be regarded as the masterpiece of Benvenuto Cellini, an artist so highly spoken
of in France, without scarcely anything being known about him. This statue, a little affected
in its pose, like all the works of the Florentine school, has a juvenile grace which is very
attractive.

THE ORIGINS OF THE CITY[29]

BY GRANT ALLEN

Only two considerable rivers flow from the Apennines westward into the Mediterranean. The Tiber
makes Rome; the Arno makes Florence. In prehistoric and early historic times, the mountainous
region which forms the basin of these two rivers was occupied by a gifted military race, the
Etruscans, who possest a singular assimilative power for Oriental and Hellenic culture. Intellectually
and artistically, they were the pick of Italy. Their blood still runs in the veins of the people
of Tuscany. Almost every great thing done in the Peninsula, in ancient or modern times, has
been done by Etruscan hands or brains. The poets and painters, in particular, with few exceptions,
have been, in the wide ethnical sense, Tuscans.

The towns of ancient Etruria were hill-top strongholds. Florence was not one of these; even
its neighbor, Fiesole (Faesulue), did not rank among the twelve great cities of the Etruscan
league. But with the Roman conquest and the Roman peace, the towns began to descend from their
mountain peaks into the river valleys; roads grew important, through internal trade; and bridges
over rivers assumed a fresh commercial value. Florence (Florentia), probably founded under
Sulla as a Roman municipium, upon a Roman road, guarded the bridge across the Arno, and gradually
absorbed the population of Fiesole. Under the later empire, it was the official residence of
the "Corrector" of Tuscany and Umbria. During the Middle Ages, it became, for all practical
purposes, the intellectual and artistic capital of Tuscany, inheriting in full the remarkable
mental and esthetic excellences of the Etruscan race.

The valley of the Arno is rich and fertile, bordered by cultivable hills, which produce the
famous Chianti wine. It was thus predestined by nature as the seat of the second city on the
west slope of Italy. Florence, however, was not always that city. The seaport of Pisa (now
silted up and superseded by Leghorn) first rose into importance; possest a powerful fleet;
made foreign conquests; and erected the magnificent group of buildings just outside the town
which still form its chief claim upon the attention of tourists. But Florence with its bridge
commanded the inland trade, and the road to Rome from Germany. After the destruction of Fiesole
in 1125, it grew rapidly in importance; and, Pisa having sustained severe defeats from Genoa,
the inland town soon rose to supremacy in the Arno basin. Nominally subject to the Emperor,
it became practically an independent republic, much agitated by internal quarrels, but capable
of holding its own against neighboring cities. Its chief buildings are thus an age or two later
than those of Pisa; it did not begin to produce splendid churches and palaces, in emulation
of those of Pisa and Siena, till about the close of the 13th century. To the same period belongs
the rise of its literature under Dante, and its painting under Giotto. This epoch of rapid
commercial, military, and artistic development forms the main glory of early Florence.

The 14th century is chiefly interesting at Florence as the period of Giottesque art, finding
its final crown in Fra Angelico. With the beginning of the 15th, we get the dawn of the Renaissance--the
age when art set out once more to recover the lost perfection of antique workmanship. In literature,
this movement took the form of humanism; in architecture and sculpture, it exhibited itself
in the persons of Alberti, Ghiberti, Della Robbia, and Donatello; in painting, it showed itself
in Lippi, Botticelli, Ghirlandajo, and Verrocchio....

We start, then, with the fact that up to nearly the close of the 13th century (1278), Florence
was a comparatively small and uninteresting town, without any buildings of importance, save
the relatively insignificant Baptistery; without any great cathedral, like Pisa and Siena;
without any splendid artistic achievement of any kind. It consisted at that period of a labyrinth
of narrow streets, enclosing huddled houses and tall towers of the nobles, like the two to
be seen to this day at Bologna. In general aspect, it could not greatly have differed from
Albenga or San Gimignano in our own time. But commerce was active; wealth was increasing; and
the population was seething with the intellectual and artistic spirit of its Etruscan ancestry.
During the lifetime of Dante, the town began to transform itself and to prepare for becoming
the glorious Florence of the Renaissance artists. It then set about building two immense and
beautiful churches--Santa Croce and Santa Maria Novella--while, shortly after, it grew to be
ashamed of its tiny San Giovanni (the existing Baptistery), and girded itself up to raise a
superb cathedral, which should cast into the shade both the one long since finished at maritime
Pisa and the one then still rising to completion on the height of Siena.

Florence at that time extended no further than the area known as Old Florence, which means
from the Ponte Vecchio to the Cathedral in one direction, and from the Ponte alla Carraja to
the Grazie in the other. Outside the wall lay a belt of fields and gardens, in which one or
two monasteries had already sprung up. But Italy at that moment was filled with religious enthusiasm
by the advent of the Friars both great orders of whom, the Franciscans and the Dominicans,
had already established themselves in the rising commercial city of Florence. Both orders had
acquired sites for monastic buildings in the space outside the walls and soon began to erect
enormous churches. The Dominicans came first, with Santa Maria Novella, the commencement of
which dates from 1278; the Franciscans were a little later in the field, with Santa Croce,
the first stone not being placed till 1294.

THE CATHEDRAL[30]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

Desirous of seeing the beginnings of this Renaissance we go from the Palazzo-Vecchio to the
Duomo. Both form the double heart of Florence, such as it beat in the Middle Ages, the former
for politics, and the latter for religion, and the two so well united that they formed but
one. Nothing can be nobler than the public edict passed in 1294 for the construction of the
national cathedral.

"Whereas, it being of sovereign prudence on the part of a people of high origin to proceed
in its affairs in such a manner that the wisdom no less than the magnanimity of its proceedings
can be recognized in its outward works, it is ordered that Arnolfo, master architect of our
commune, prepare models or designs for the restoration of Santa Maria Reparata, with the most
exalted and most prodigal magnificence, in order that the industry and power of men may never
create or undertake anything whatsoever more vast and more beautiful; in accordance with that
which our wisest citizens have declared and counselled in public session and in secret conclave,
to wit, that no hand be laid upon the works of the commune without the intent of making them
to correspond to the noble soul which is composed of the souls of all its citizens united in
one will."

[FLORENCE: BRIDGE ACROSS THE ARNO Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: THE OLD PALACE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: THE LOGGIA DI LANZI Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: CLOISTER OF SANTA MARIA NOVELLA Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: CLOISTER OF SAN MARCO Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: THE PITTI PALACE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FLORENCE: THE HOUSE OF DANTE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[FRONT OF ST. MARK'S, VENICE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[INTERIOR OF ST. MARK'S, VENICE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[THE DUCAL PALACE, VENICE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[VENICE: PIAZZA OF ST. MARK'S, DUCAL PALACE ON THE LEFT Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

[VIEW OF VENICE FROM THE CAMPANILE Illustration: Courtesy John C. Winston Co.]

In this ample period breathes the grandiose pride and intense patriotism of the ancient republics.
Athens under Pericles, and Rome under the first Scipio cherished no prouder sentiments. At
each step, here as elsewhere, in texts and in monuments, is found, in Italy, the traces, the
renewal and the spirit of classic antiquity.

Let us, accordingly, look at the celebrated Duomo--but, the difficulty is to see it. It stands
upon flat ground, and, in order that the eye might embrace its mass it would be necessary to
level three hundred buildings. Herein appears the defect of the great medieval structure; even
to-day, after so many openings, effected by modern demolishers, most of the cathedrals are
visible only on paper. The spectator catches sight of a fragment, some section of a wall, or
the façade; but the whole escapes him; man's work is no longer proportioned to his organs.
It was not thus in antiquity; temples were small or of mediocre dimensions, and were almost
always erected on an eminence; their general form and complete profile could be enjoyed from
twenty different points of view.

After the advent of Christianity, men's conceptions transcended their forces, and the ambition
of the spirit no longer took into account the limitations of the body. The human machine lost
its equilibrium. With forgetfulness of the moderate there was established a love of the odd.
Without either reason or symmetry campaniles or bell-towers were planted, like isolated posts,
in front or alongside of cathedrals; there is one of these alongside of the Duomo, and this
change of human equipoise must have been potent, since even here, among so many Latin traditions
and classic aptitudes, it declares itself.

In other respects, save the ogive arcades, the monument is not Gothic, but Byzantine, or, rather,
original; it is a creature of a new and mixed form like the new and mixed civilization of which
it is the offspring. You feel power and invention in it with a touch of quaintness and fancy.
Walls of enormous grandeur are developed or expanded without the few windows in them happening
to impair their massiveness or diminish their strength. There are no flying buttresses; they
are self-sustaining. Marble panels, alternately yellow and black, cover them with a glittering
marquetry, and curves of arches let into their masses seem to be the bones of a robust skeleton
beneath the skin.

The Latin cross, which the edifice figures, contracts at the top, and the chancel and transepts
bubble out into rotundities and projections, in petty domes behind the church in order to accompany
the grand dome which ascends above the choir, and which, the work of Brunnelleschi, newer and
yet more antique than that of St. Peter, lifts in the air to an astonishing height its elongated
form, its octagonal sides and its pointed lantern. But how can the physiognomy of a church
be conveyed by words? It has one nevertheless; all its portions appearing together are combined
in one chord and in one effect. If you examine the plans and old engravings you will appreciate
the bizarre and captivating harmony of these grand Roman walls overlaid with Oriental fancies;
of these Gothic ogives arranged in Byzantine cupolas; of these light Italian columns forming
a circle above a bordering of Grecian caissons; of this assemblage of all forms, pointed, swelling,
angular, oblong, circular and octagonal. Greek and Latin antiquity, the Byzantine and Saracenic
Orient, the Germanic and Italian middle-age, the entire past, shattered, amalgamated and transformed,
seems to have been melted over anew in the human furnace in order to flow out in fresh forms
in the hands of the new genius of Giotto, Arnolfo, Brunnelleschi and Dante.

Here the work is unfinished, and the success is not complete. The façade has not been constructed;
all that we see of it is a great naked, scarified wall similar to a leper's plaster.[31] There
is no light within. A line of small round bays and a few windows fill the immensity of the
edifice with a gray illumination; it is bare, and the argillaceous tone in which it is painted
depresses the eye with its wan monotony. A "Pieta" by Michael Angelo and a few statues seem
like spectres; the bas-reliefs are only vague confusion. The architect, hesitating between
medieval and antique taste, fell only upon a lifeless light, that between a pure light and
a colored light.

The more we contemplate architectural works the more do we find them adapted to express the
prevailing spirit of an epoch. Here, on the flank of the Duomo, stands the Campanile by Giotto,
erect, isolated, like St. Michael's tower at Bordeaux, or the tower of St. Jacques at Paris;
the medieval man, in fact, loves to build high; he aspires to heaven, his elevations all tapering
off into pointed pinnacles; if this one had been finished a spire of thirty feet would have
surmounted the tower, itself two hundred and fifty feet high. Hitherto the northern architect
and the Italian architect are governed by the same instinct, and gratify the same penchant;
but while the northern artist, frankly Gothic, embroiders his tower with delicate moldings,
and complex flower-work, and a stone lacework infinitely multiplied and intersected, the southern
artist, half-Latin through his tendencies and his reminiscences, erects a square, strong and
full pile, in which a skilful ornamentation does not efface the general structure, which is
not frail sculptured bijou, but a solid durable monument, its coating of red, black and white
marble covering it with royal luxuriance, and which, through its healthy and animated statues,
its bas-reliefs framed in medallions, recalls the friezes and pediments of an antique temple.

In these medallions Giotto has symbolized the principal epochs of human civilization; the traditions
of Greece near those of Judea; Adam, Tubal-Cain, and Noah, Daedalus, Hercules, and Antaeus,
the invention of plowing, the mastery of the horse, and the discovery of the arts and the sciences;
laic and philosophic sentiment live freely in him side by side with a theological and religious
sentiment. Do we not already see in this renaissance of the fourteenth century that of the
sixteenth? In order to pass from one to another, it will suffice for the spirit of the first
to become ascendant over the spirit of the second; at the end of a century we are to see in
the adornment of the edifice, in these statues of Donatello, in their baldness so expressive,
in the sentiment of the real and natural life displayed among the goldsmiths and sculptors,
evidence of the transformation begun under Giotto having been already accomplished.

Every step we take we encounter some sign of this persistency or precocity of a Latin and classic
spirit. Facing the Duomo is the baptistery, which at first served as a church, a sort of octagonal
temple surmounted by a cupola, built, doubtless, after the model of the Pantheon of Rome, and
which, according to the testimony of a contemporary bishop, already in the eighth century projected
upward the pompous rotundities of its imperial forms. Here, then, in the most barbarous epoch
of the Middle Ages, is a prolongation, a renewal, or, at least, an imitation of Roman architecture.
You enter, and find that the decoration is not all Gothic; a circle of Corinthian columns of
precious marbles with, above these, a circle of smaller columns surmounted by loftier arcades,
and, on the vault, a legion of saints, and angels peopling the entire space, gathering in four
rows around a grand, dull, meager, melancholy Byzantine Christ. On these three superposed stories
the three gradual distortions of antique art appear; but, distorted or intact, it is always
antique art. A significant feature, this, throughout the history of Italy; she did not become
Germanic. In the tenth century the degraded Roman still subsisted distinct and intact side
by side with the proud barbarian....

Sculpture, which, once before under Nicholas of Pisa, had anticipated painting, again anticipated
it in the fifteenth century; these very doors of the baptistery enable one to see with what
sudden perfection and brilliancy. Three men then appeared, Brunelleschi, the architect of the
Duomo, Donatello, who decorated the Campanile with statues, and Ghiberti, who cast the two
gates of the baptistery, all three friends and rivals, all three having commenced with the
goldsmith's art and a study of the living model, and all three passionately devoted to the
antique; Brunelleschi drawing and measuring Roman monuments, Donatello at Rome copying statues
and bas-reliefs and Ghiberti importing from Greece torsos, vases and heads which he restored,
imitated and worshiped.

AN ASCENT OF THE GREAT DOME[32]

BY MR. AND MRS. EDWIN H. BLASHFIELD

The traveler who, turning his back to the gates of Ghiberti, passes, for the first time, under
the glittering new mosaics and through the main doors of Santa Maria Del Fiore experiences
a sensation. He leaves behind him the façade, dazzling in its patterns of black and white marble,
all laced with sculpture, he enters to dim, bare vastness--surely, never was bleaker lining
to a splendid exterior. Across a floor that seems unending, he makes long journeys, from monument
to monument; to gigantic condottieri, riding ghost-like in the semi-darkness against the upper
walls; to Luca's saints and angels in the sacristies; to Donatellos's Saint John, grand and
tranquil in his niche, and to Michelangelo's group, grand and troubled in its rough-hewn marble.

At length, in the north transept, he comes to a small door, and entering there, he may, if
legs and wind hold out, climb five hundred and fifteen steps to the top of the mightiest dome
in the world, the widest in span, and the highest from spring to summit. For the first one
hundred and fifty steps or so, there are square turnings, and the stone looks sharp, and new,
and solid; a space vaulted by a domical roof follows, and is apparently above one of the apsidal
domes to the church; then a narrow spiral staircase leads to where a second door opens upon
a very narrow, balustraded walk that runs around the inner side of the dome.

He is at an altitude of sixty-seven meters, exactly at the spring of the cupola and the beginning
of the Vasari frescoes; the feet are at an elevation of one meter less than is that of the
lower tops of Notre Dame de Paris, and yet the dome follows away overhead, huge enough, high
enough to contain a second church piled, Pelion-like upon the first. Before, in the dimness,
is the vastest roof-covered void in the world; it is terrific, and if the visitor is susceptible,
his knees shake, and his diaphragm seems to sink to meet them.

The impression is tremendous; no wonder that the Tuscans felt Brunelleschi to be the central
figure of the Renaissance. Again and again, whether in the gallery or between the walls of
the dome, the thought comes; men built this, and one man dared it and planned it. Not even
the Pyramids impress more strongly; for if Brunelleschi built a lesser pyramid, he hollowed
his and hung it in the air.

On the other side of the space, a small black spot becomes a door when the traveler has giddily
circled half the dome; it opens upon another staircase, up which he climbs between the two
skins of the cupola, or rather between two of the three, like a parasite upon a monster. Sometimes
the place suggests a ship, with the oculi as gunports, piercing to the outer day, or else,
his mind fresh from that red inferno of Vasari's frescoes, the traveler is tunneling up through
a volcanic crater with a whole Typhonic Enceladus buried below.

To right and left, the smooth, cemented surface curves away and upward, brick buttresses appear
constantly, but always with the courses of brick laid slanting to the earth's level, and perpendicular
to the thrust of the dome. Every possible effect of light and obscurity makes the strange vistas
yet more weird, and, now and then, there is a feeling of standing upon the vast, rounding slope
of some planet that shines at one's feet, then gradually falls away into the surrounding blackness.

The famous "oaken chain" of Vasari's life of Brunelleschi is there, bolted together in successive
beams. Last of all, a long, straight staircase, straight because without turn to right or left,
curves upward like an unradiant, bowed Valhalla-bridge to a great burst of daylight, and the
climber is upon the top of the dome.

He is as completely cut off from the immediately surrounding earth as upon a cloud girdled
mountain, for the dome swells so vastly below that the piazza can not be seen about transept
or choir, and not one of the apsidal domes shows a tile of its covering, while the nave, that
huge and tremendous nave of Santa Maria, looks but a narrow, and a distant roof. At one's back,
the marble of the lantern is handsome and creamy in color, but battered and broken; its interior
is curious--a narrow funnel of marble, little wider than a man's body, set with irons on either
side, is the only ladder, so that the climb up is a close squeeze. There is a familiar something
gone from the surroundings, and that something is soon remembered to be Dante's baptistery,
which does not exist from Brunelleschi's dome, being blotted out by the façade of Santa Maria.
One hundred feet below, showing its upper and richer portion gloriously from this novel point
of view, is what from the piazza is the soaring bell tower, the Campanile of Giotto.

ARNOLFO, GIOTTO, BRUNELLESCHI[33]

BY MRS. OLIPHANT

Arnolfo, sometimes called di Cambio and sometimes di Lapi, was the first of the group of Cathedral
builders in Florence. Who Arnolfo was seems to be scarcely known, tho few architects after
him have left greater works or more evidence of power. His first authentic appearance in history
is among the band of workmen engaged upon the pulpit in the Duomo at Siena, as pupil or journeyman
of Niccolo Pisano, the great reviver of the art of sculpture--when he becomes visible in company
with a certain Lapo, who is sometimes called his father (as by Vasari) and sometimes his instructor,
but who appears actually to have been nothing more than his fellow-workman and associate....

The Cathedral, the Palazzo Pubblico, the two great churches of Santa Croce and Santa Maria
Novella, all leaped into being within a few years, almost simultaneously. The Duomo was founded,
as some say, in 1294, the same year in which Santa Croce was begun, or, according to others,
in 1298; and between these two dates, in 1296, the Palace of the Signoria, the seat of the
Commonwealth, the center of all public life, had its commencement. All these great buildings,
Arnolfo designed and began, and his genius requires no other evidence. The stern strength of
the Palazzo, upright and strong like a knight in mail, and the large and noble lines of the
Cathedral, ample and liberal and majestic in ornate robes and wealthy ornaments, show how well
he knew to vary and adapt his art to the different requirements of municipal and religious
life and to the necessities of the age.

We are not informed who they were who carried out the design of the Duomo. Arnolfo only lived
to see a portion of this, his greatest work, completed--"the three principal tribunes which
were under the cupola," and which Vasari tells us were so solid and strongly built as to be
able to bear the full weight of Brunelleschi's dome, which was much larger and heavier than
the one the original architect had himself designed. Arnolfo died when he had built his Palazzo
in rugged strength, as it still stands, with walls like living rock and heavy Tuscan cornices--tho
it was reserved to the other masters to put upon it the wonderful crown of its appropriate
tower--and just as the round apse of the cathedral approached completion; a hard fate for a
great builder to leave such noble work behind him half done, yet the most common of all fates.
He died, so far as there is any certainty in dates, in 1300, during the brief period of Dante's
power in Florence, when the poet was one of the priors and much engaged in public business;
and the same eventful year concluded the existence of Cimabue, the first of the great school
of Florentine painters--he whose picture was carried home to the church in which it was to
dwell for all the intervening centuries with such pride and acclamation that the Borgo Allegri
is said to have taken its name from this wonderful rejoicing....

No more notable or distinct figure than Giotto is in all the history of Florence. He was born
a peasant, in the village of Vespignano in the Mugello, the same district which afterward gave
birth to Fra Angelico. Giotto had at least part of his professional training in the great cathedral
at Assisi built over the bones of St. Francis, was one of those homely, vigorous souls, "a
natural person," like his father, whom neither the lapse of centuries nor the neighborhood
of much greater and more striking persons about them, can deprive of their naive and genuine
individuality. Burly, homely, characteristic, he carries our attentions always with him, alike
on the silent road, or in the king's palace, or his own simple shop. Wherever he is, he is
always the same, shrewd, humorous, plain-spoken, seeing through all pretenses, yet never ill-natured
in doing so--a character not very lofty or elevated, and to which the racy ugliness of a strong,
uncultivated race seems natural--but who under that homely nature carried appreciations and
conceptions of beauty such as few fine minds possess.

Of all the beautiful things with which Giotto adorned his city, not one speaks so powerfully
to the foreign visitor--the forestiere whom he and his fellows never took into account, tho
who occupy so large a space among the admirers of his genius nowadays--as the lovely Campanile
which stands by the great cathedral like the white royal lily beside the Mary of the Annunciation,
slender and strong and everlasting in its delicate grace. It is not often that a man takes
up a new trade when he is approaching sixty, or even goes into a new path out of his familiar
routine. But Giotto seems to have turned without a moment's hesitation from his paints and
panels to the less easily-wrought materials of the builder and sculptor, without either faltering
from the great enterprise or doubting his own power to do it. His frescoes and altarpieces
and crucifixes, the work he had been so long accustomed to, and which he could execute pleasantly
in his own workshop or on the cool new walls of church or convent, with his trained school
of younger artists round to aid him, were as different as possible from the elaborate calculations
and measurements by which alone the lofty tower, straight, and lightsome as a lily, could have
sprung so high and stood so lightly against that Italian sky.

Like the poet or the romancist when he turns from the flowery ways of fiction and invention,
where he is unencumbered by any restrictions save those of artistic keeping and personal will,
to the grave and beaten path of history--the painter must have felt when he too turned from
the freedom and poetry of art to this first scientific undertaking. The Cathedral was so far
finished by this time, its front not scarred and bare as afterward, but adorned with statues
according to old Arnolfo's plan, who was dead more than thirty years before; but there was
no belfry, no companion peal of peace and sweetness to balance the hoarse old vacca with its
voice of iron.

Giotto seems to have thrown himself into work not only without reluctance but with enthusiasm.
The foundation-stone of the building was laid in July of that year, with all the greatness
of Florence looking on; and the painter entered upon his work at once, working out the most
poetic effort of his life in marble and stone, among the masons' chippings and the dust and
blaze of the public street. At the same time he designed, tho it does not seem sure whether
he lived long enough to execute, a new façade for the Cathedral, replacing Arnolfo's old statues
by something better.

Of the Campanile itself it is difficult to speak in ordinary words. The enrichments of the
surface, which is covered by beautiful groups set in a graceful framework of marble, with scarcely
a flat or unadorned spot from top to bottom, have been ever since the admiration of artists
and of the world. But we confess, for our own part, that it is the structure itself that affords
us that soft ecstasy of contemplation, sense of a perfection before which the mind stops short,
silenced and filled with the completeness of beauty unbroken, which Art so seldom gives, tho
Nature often attains it by the simplest means, through the exquisite perfection of a flower
or a stretch of summer sky.

Just as we have looked at a sunset we look at Giotto's tower, poised far above in the blue
air, in all the wonderful dawns and moonlights of Italy, swift darkness shadowing its white
glory at the tinkle of the Ave Maria, and a golden glow of sunbeams accompanying the mid-day
angelus. Between the solemn antiquity of the old baptistery and the historical gloom of the
great cathedral, it stands like the lily--if not, rather, like the great angel himself hailing
her who was blest among women, and keeping up that lovely salutation, musical and sweet as
its own beauty, for century after century, day after day. Giotto made not only the design,
but even, Vasari assures us, worked at the groups and "bassi-relievi" of these "stories in
marble, in which are depicted the beginning of all the arts." ...

Filippo of Ser Brunellescho of the Lapi, which is, according to Florentine use, his somewhat
cumbrous name, or Brunelleschi for short, as custom permitted him to be called, was the son
of a notary, who as notaries do, hoped and expected his boy to follow in his steps and succeed
to his practise. But, like other sons doomed their fathers' soul to cross, Filippo took to
those "figuretti" in bronze which were so captivating to the taste of the time, and preferred
rather to be a goldsmith, to hang upon the skirts of art, than to work in the paternal office.
He was, as Vasari insinuates, small, puny, and ugly, but full of dauntless and daring energy
as well as genius. From his gold and silver work, the "carvings" which old Bartoluccio had
been so glad to escape, and from his "figuretti," the ambitious lad took to architectural drawing,
of which, according to Vasari, he was one of the first amateurs, making "portraits" of the
Cathedral and baptistery, of the Palazzo Pubblico, and the other chief buildings of the city.
He was so eloquent a talker that a worthy citizen declared of him that he seemed "a new St.
Paul;" and in his thoughts he was continually busy planning or imagining something skilful
and difficult.

The idea of completing the Cathedral by adding to it a cupola worthy of its magnificent size
and proportions seems to have been in the young man's head before the Signoria or the city
took any action in the matter. Arnolfo's designs are said to have been lost, and all the young
Filippo could do was to study the picture in the Spanish chapel of Santa Maria Novella, where
the cathedral was depicted according to Arnolfo's intention; and this proof to the usefulness
of architectural backgrounds, no doubt, moved him to those pictures of building which he was
fond of making.

After his failure in the competition with Ghiberti for the baptistery gates, Filippo went to
Rome, accompanied by Donato. Here the two friends lived and studied together for some time,
one giving himself to sculpture, the other to architecture. Brunelleschi, according to Vasari,
made this a period of very severe study. He examined all the remains of ancient buildings with
the keenest care; studying the foundations and the strength of the walls, and the way in which
such a prodigious load as the great dome, which already he saw in his mind's eye, could best
be supported.

So profound were his researches that he was called the treasure-hunter by those who saw him
coming and going through the streets of Rome, a title so far justified that he is said in one
instance to have actually found an ancient earthenware jar full of old coins. While engaged
in these studies, his money failing him, he worked for a jeweller according to the robust practise
of the time, and after making ornaments and setting gems all day, set to work on his buildings,
round and square, octagons, basilicas, arches, colosseums, and amphitheaters, perfecting himself
in the principles of his art.

In 1407 he returned to Florence, and then there began a series of negotiations between the
artist and the city, to which there seemed at first as if no end could come. They met, and
met again, assemblies of architects, of city authorities, of competitors less hopeful and less
eager than himself. His whole heart, it is evident, was set upon the business. Hearing Donatello
at one of these assemblies mention the cathedral at Orvieto, which he had visited on his way
from Rome, Filippo, having his mantle and his hood on, without saying a word to anyone, set
straight off from the Piazza on foot, and got as far as Cortona, from whence he returned with
various pen-and-ink drawings before Donato or any one else had found out that he was away.

Thus the small, keen, determined, ugly artist, swift and sudden as lightning, struck through
all the hesitations, the consultations, the maunderings, the doubts, and the delays of the
two authorities who had the matter in hand, the Signoria and the Operai, as who should say
the working committee, and who made a hundred difficulties and shook their wise heads, and
considered one foolish and futile plan after another with true burgher hesitation and wariness.

At last, in 1420, an assembly of competitors was held in Florence, and a great many plans put
forth, one of which was to support the proposed vault by a great central pillar, while another
advised that the space to be covered should be filled with soil mixed with money, upon which
the dome might be built, and which the people would gladly remove without expense afterward
for the sake of the farthings! An expedient most droll in its simplicity. Brunelleschi, impatient
of so much folly, went off to Rome, it is said, in the middle of these discussions, disgusted
by the absurd ignorance which was thus put in competition with his careful study and long labor.
Finally the appointment was conceded to him.

The greatest difficulty with which he had to contend was a strike of his workmen, of whom,
however, there being no trades' unions in those days, the imperious master made short work.
And thus, day by day, the great dome swelled out over the shining marble walls and rose against
the beautiful Italian sky. Nothing like it had been seen before by living eyes. The solemn
grandeur of the Pantheon at Rome was indeed known to many, and San Giovanni[34] was in some
sort an imitation of that; but the immense structure of the cupola, so justly poised, springing
with such majestic grace from the familiar walls to which it gave new dignity, flattered the
pride of the Florentines as something unique, besides delighting the eyes and imagination of
so beauty-loving a race.

With that veiled and subtle pride which takes the shape of pious fear, some even pretended
to tremble, lest it should be supposed to be too near an emulation of the blue vault above,
and that Florence was competing with heaven; others, with the delightful magniloquence of the
time, declared that the hills around the city were scarcely higher than the beautiful Duomo;
and Vasari himself has a doubt that the heavens were envious, so persistent were the storms
amid which the cupola arose.

Yet there it stands to this day, firm and splendid, uninjured by celestial envy, more harmonious
than St. Peter's, the crown of the beautiful city. Its measurements and size and the secrets
of its formation we do not pretend to set forth; the reader will find them in every guide-book.
But the keen, impetuous, rapid figure of the architect, impatient, and justly impatient, of
all rivalry, the murmurs and comments of the workmen; the troubled minds of the city authorities,
not knowing how to hold their ground between that gnome of majestic genius who had fathomed
all the secrets of construction and built a hundred Duomos in his mind, while they were pottering
over the preliminaries of one; have all the interest of life for us.

Through the calm fields of art he goes like a whirlwind, keen, certain, unfailing in his aim,
unsparing in means, carried forward by such an impulse of will and self-confidence that nothing
can withstand him. Sure of his own powers, as he was when he carved in secret the crucifix
which was to cover poor Donatello with confusion, he saw before him, over his carvings, as
he worked for the Roman goldsmith, the floating vision of the great dome he was to build--and
so built it, all opposition notwithstanding, clearing out of his way with the almost contemptuous
impatience of that knowledge which has no doubt of itself, the competing architects.

GHIBERTI'S GATES[35]

BY CHARLES YRIARTE

The Baptistery is the most ancient building in Florence. If not of pagan origin it dates from
the earliest ages of Christianity. It was coated with marble of different colors by Arnolfo
di Cambio in 1293, while in the sixteenth century Agnolo Gaddi designed the lantern; but long
before Arnolfo's time it had been employed as a Christian place of worship, being used as a
cathedral up to 1128, when it was converted into a baptistery.

This building contains three gates, which have no parallel in the world. The oldest is that
on the southern side, upon which Pisano spent twenty-two years of his life, a most beautiful
work representing, in twenty compartments, the life of St. John the Baptist. The frieze which
runs round it was commenced nearly a century afterward by Ghiberti, and Pollaiuolo had much
to do with its completion.

The northern gates are by Ghiberti, and, like those of Pisano, are divided into twenty compartments,
the subject being the life of Christ. The bronze door-posts are delicately carved with flowers,
fruit, and animals. These gates were first placed on the eastern side, but in 1452 were removed
to make room for Ghiberti's still finer work.

On the third façade, that which faces the Duomo, is the Porta del Paradiso, so named by Michael
Angelo, who declared that this gate was worthy to be the entrance into Paradise.

The frieze contains statuettes of the prophets and prophetesses and portrait-busts of men and
women still alive, including Ghiberti himself, and his father; while the frame-posts, with
their masses of vegetation and flora wrought in bronze, are admirable for their truth to nature.
Bronze groups representing the "Decapitation of St. John the Baptist," by Danti, and the "Baptism
of our Lord," by Andrea Sansovino, surmount two of the gates, which were at one time heavily
gilded, tho few traces of this are now visible.

The Baptistery, empty as it appears to the eye upon first entering it, is replete with beautiful
monuments, a description of which would fill a good-sized volume. It is built, as I have already
said, upon an octagonal plan. The altar, which formerly stood beneath the cupola, has been
removed. On the 24th of June every year the magnificent retablo in massive silver, which is
preserved among the treasures in the Opera del Duomo, is displayed in the Baptistery. The silver
alone weighs 325 pounds, including two center-pieces, two side-pieces, and a silver crucifix
with two statuettes seven feet high, and weighing 141 pounds, the group being completed by
two statues of Peace in engine-turned silver. Many artists were employed upon the making of
it. Finiguerra, Pollaiuolo, Cione, Michelozzi, Verrocchio, and Cennini made the lower parts
and the bas-reliefs of the front, while the cross, executed in 1456, is by Betto di Francesco,
and the base of it by Milano di Domenico dei and Antonio Pollaiuolo.

The interior of the cupola of San Giovanni is ornamented with some of the oldest specimens
of mosaic decoration in Florence, these Byzantine artists being the first, after Murano and
Altino, to exercise their craft in Italy, and being succeeded by Jacopo da Turita, Andrea Tafi,
and Gaddo Gaddi.

The handsome tomb of Baldassare Cossa (Pope John XXIII., deposed at the time of the Council
of Constance), was reared in the Baptistery by Donatello. The Holy of Holies is relatively
modern, having been erected at the expense of the Guild of the "Calimala," as the men who gave
the finishing touch to the woolen stuffs manufactured abroad were called. The baptismal font,
in a building specially used for christening, would, as a matter of course, be intrusted to
artists of great repute, and that at San Giovanni is attributed to Andrea Pisano. Upon each
face is represented one of the baptisms most famous in the history of the Catholic religion,
an inscription beneath explaining each episode; but this font is, unfortunately, so much in
the background that it escapes the notice of many visitors.

Donatello carved the wooden statue of the Magdalen which occupies one of the niches, the thin
emaciated face being typical of the artist's partiality for reproducing in their smallest details
the physical defects of his subject. The exterior aspect of the Baptistery does not give one
the idea of a building restored in the thirteenth, but rather in the fifteenth century.

THE PONTE VECCHIO[36]

BY CHARLES YRIARTE

Until the close of 1080 the Ponte Vecchio was built of wood, the heavy masses of timber, tho
offering no steady resistance to the stream, dividing the muddy course of the waters into a
thousand small currents, and breaking its force. But in 1177 occurred one of those inundations
which were so frequent that traces of them may still be seen on the walls of the quays. These
inundations were one of the curses of Florence, and tho the evil has been, to a certain extent,
cured by the construction of massive quays, they still occur in the direction of the Cascine.
An attempt was accordingly made in the twelfth century to obviate this inconvenience by the
construction of a stone bridge. This, in turn, was carried away in 1333, and Taddeo Gaddi,
who had already made a name for himself by his architectural skill, was employed to build a
bridge capable of resisting the highest floods. The present bridge was therefore erected in
1345, being 330 feet long by 44 wide.

With the double object of obtaining an income for the city and of introducing a novel feature,
shops were built on the two pathways, which were 16 feet wide, and these were let to the butchers
of Florence, thus realizing the Eastern plan of concentrating the meat trade of a town in one
place. This arrangement lasted from 1422 until 1593, but in the latter year, under Cosimo I.,
the "Capitani di Parte," who had the supervision of the streets and highways, ordered that
all the goldsmiths and jewelers should take the place of the butchers, and in a few months,
the Ponte Vecchio became the wealthiest and most crowded thoroughfare of Florence. In order
to avoid shutting out a view of the stream and interfering with the perspective, an open space
had been reserved in the center, and when the Palazzo Vecchio and the Uffizi were connected
with the Pitti Palace by means of the large covered way carried over the bridge, this space
was left intact so as to afford a view of the eminence of San Miniato upon one side, of the
windings of the stream on the other, and of the Cascine shrubberies and the mountains upon
the horizon.

SANTA CROCE[37]

BY CHARLES YRIARTE

Built by Arnolfo, then fifty-four years of age, by order of the Friars of St. Francis, this
venerable temple was raised upon the piazza called Santa Croce, where formerly stood a small
church belonging to the order of the Franciscan monks. They had resolved to embellish and enlarge
their church, and Cardinal Matteo D'Acquasparta, general of the Franciscan Order, proclaimed
an indulgence to all contributors toward the undertaking. The church was far enough advanced
in 1320 for services to be held in it, tho the façade was then, as until a very recent period
it remained, a plain brick wall, without facing or any other ornament. Santa Croce was not
singular in this respect, for San Lorenzo and many other Florentine churches have never been
decorated externally.

In 1442 Cardinal Bessarion, the founder of St. Mark's Library at Venice, was delegated to perform
the ceremony of consecration. Donatello and Ghiberti, incomplete as was the façade, executed
some statues and a stained-glass window for it, but it is only within the last few years that
the city of Florence completed the work, leaving untouched the grand piazza which had been
the scene of so many fêtes and intestine quarrels, and upon which is now erected a statue to
Dante. The façade of Santa Croce was completed in 1863. The expense was principally borne by
Mr. Francis Sloane, an Englishman.

The interior is striking from its vast size, the church being built in the shape of a Latin
cross with nave, aisles, and transepts, each of the seven pointed arches being supported on
the octagonal column. Opposite the front entrance is the high altar, while all around the walls
and between the side altars--erected in 1557 by Vasari by order of Cosimo I.--are the monuments
of the illustrious dead. First of all on the left there is Domenico Sestini, a celebrated numismatist,
whose bust was carved by Pozzetti. While in the first chapel on the right is the tomb of Michael
Angelo, who died at Rome on the 17th of February, 1564; the monument was designed by Vasari,
the bust was executed by Battista Lorenzo. Two contemporary sculptors, Valerio Cioli and Giovanni
Dell'Opera, did the allegories of Sculpture and Architecture, the frescoes around the monument
being by Battista Naldini. A nobler tomb might well have been raised to the memory of Michael
Angelo. The body was deposited in the church on the 12th of March, 1564, and lay in state,
for the people of Florence to come and pay him the last tribute of respect.

The next tomb is only commemorative, for it does not contain the ashes of Dante, in whose honor
it was erected in 1829 by Ricci, as a tardy homage on the part of Florence to one who suffered
so much for her sake in life.[38]

After Dante comes Victor Alfieri, whose name has been borne with distinction by his descendants.
This monument was erected by Canova in 1807. Compared with the monuments of the fifteenth century
and of the Renaissance, which are to be seen in such splendid profusion in Florence, these
tombs seem so inferior that it is impossible not to wonder how the decadence was brought about.
It is not at Florence alone that this feeling manifests itself; for at Venice, in the splendid
temple of Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari, beside the tombs of doges and condottieri of the
fifteenth century there stands that wretched monument upon which the great name of Titian has
been traced. This is evidently the result of an inevitable law to which humanity is subject.
Genius comes into the world, grows, spreads, and covers the earth with its shadow; then slowly
the sap runs back from the verdant trunk, the tree yields less luscious fruit and flowers not
so fair, until at last the branches wither and the tree dies.

Close beside Alfieri is buried Machiavelli, his tomb, like so many of the others, being of
modern erection, and consequently less beautiful than if it had been the work of a sculptor
who had studied in the school of Ghiberti or Donatello. By the side of Machiavelli rests Luigi
Lanzi, a name less generally known, tho celebrated in his time as an historiographer of painting,
or an art critic as we should now call him. His friend, Chevalier Ornofrio Boni, prepared the
design for his tomb, which was executed at public cost. The pulpit--a fine specimen of fifteenth-century
sculpture, carved by Benedetto da Maiano at the cost of Pietro Mellini, who presented it to
the church--is well worth close inspection; and close by, between the tombs of Lanzi and Leonardo
Bruni, is a group in freestone, representing the Annunciation. This was one of the first of
Donatello's works, and gave an earnest of his future genius.

The tomb of Leonardo Bruni Aretino is one of the five or six greatest works of this nature
which ever left the sculptor's hands; it has been used as a model by the sculptors of all the
tombs in Santa Maria del Popolo at Rome. The monument to Leonardo Bruni is the highest expression
of sculptural art, combining all the taste of ancient Greece with the grace, the power, the
calm, the supreme harmony, and the perfection which genius alone confers, its tranquil and
subdued beauty comparing favorably with the theatrical effect and garish splendor of the monuments
in St. John Lateran and St. Peter's at Rome. The superb mausoleums of Leopardi and of the Lombardi
at Venice are, perhaps, equally beautiful; but I am inclined to give the preference to the
work of Bernardo Rossellini. He became acquainted with Leonardo Bruni at the Papal Court, where
he, as well as Leo Battista Alberti, was a director of the pontifical works. The Madonna let
into the upper part of the monument is by Andrea Verocchio....

In visiting Santa Croce it is impossible not to feel how erroneous are the views often held
as to the exact place which will be allotted in the roll of history to the men of the day.
Many of the names in this Pantheon are almost unknown, the tomb next to that of Galileo containing
the dust of Mulazzi-Signorini, who has never been heard of out of Italy. Another unavoidable
reflection is that the talent of the sculptor is rarely in proportion to that of the man whose
memory he is about to perpetuate. Machiavelli was commemorated by two obscure sculptors like
Foggini and Ticcati, and Michael Angelo by Battista Lorenzi. What has the world not lost by
the refusal of Michael Angelo's offer to erect a tomb to Dante when the city of Florence was
about to ask Ravenna to restore his remains to her!

The convent annexed to Santa Croce was also built by Arnolfo. It was originally occupied by
the Franciscan monks, and it was here that, from 1284 to 1782, the Inquisition held its sittings.
The notorious Frenchman, Gaulthier de Brienne, Duke of Athens, who for a brief period ruled
Florence as Captain of the People, selected this monastery as his residence in June, 1342,
but having in September of the same year succeeded in getting himself elected ruler of Florence
for life, he removed to the Palazzo Vecchio. His reign, however, was of only brief duration,
for the year following he was expelled by the people.

THE UFFIZI GALLERY[39]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

What can be said of a gallery containing thirteen hundred pictures? For my own part I abstain.
Examine catalogs and collections of engravings, or rather come here yourself. The impressions
borne away from these grand store-houses are too diverse and too numerous to be transmitted
by the pen. Observe this, that the Uffizi is a universal depot, a sort of Louvre containing
paintings of all times and schools, bronzes, statues, sculptures, antique and modern terracottas,
cabinets of gems, an Etruscan museum, artists' portraits painted by themselves, twenty-eight
thousand original drawings, four thousand cameos and ivories and eighty thousand medals. One
resorts to it as to a library; it is an abridgment and a specimen of everything....

We ascend the great marble staircase, pass the famous antique boar and enter the long horseshoe
corridor filled with busts and tapestried with paintings. Visitors, about ten o'clock in the
morning, are few; the mute custodians remain in their corners; you seem to be really at home.
It all belongs to you, and what convenient possessions! Keepers and majordomos are here to
keep things in order, well dusted and intact; it is not even necessary to give orders; matters
go on of themselves without jar or confusion, nobody giving himself the slightest concern;
it is an ideal world such as it ought to be. The light is excellent; bright gleams from the
windows fall on some distant white statues on the rosy torso of a woman which comes out living
from the shadowy obscurity. Beyond, as far as the eye can see, marble gods and emperors extend
away in files up to the windows through which flickers the light ripple of the Arno with the
silvery swell on its crests and eddies.

You enter into the freedom and sweet repose of abstract life; the will relaxes, the inner tumult
subsides; one feels himself becoming a monk, a modern monk. Here, as formerly in the cloisters,
the tender inward spirit, chafed by the necessities of action, insensibly revives in order
to commune with beings emancipated from life's obligations. It is so sweet no longer to be!
Not to be is so natural! And how peaceful the realm of human forms withdrawn from human conflict!
The pure thought which follows them is so conscious that its illusion is transient; it participates
in their incorporeal serenity, and reverie, lingering in turn over their voluptuousness and
violence, brings back to it plenitude without satiety.

On the left of the corridors open the cabinets of precious things--the Niobe hall, that of
portraits, that of modern bronzes, each with its special group of treasures. You feel that
you have a right to enter, that great men are awaiting you. A selection is made among them;
you reenter the Tribune; five antique statues form a circle here--a slave sharpening his knife;
two interlocked wrestlers whose muscles are strained and expanded; a charming Apollo of sixteen
years whose compact form has all the suppleness of the freshest adolescence; an admirable Faun
instinct with the animality of his species, unconsciously joyous and dancing with all his might;
and finally, the "Venus de Medici," a slender young girl with a small delicate head, not a
goddess like her sister of Milo, but a perfect mortal and the work of some Praxiteles fond
of "hetairae," at ease in a nude state and free from that somewhat mawkish delicacy and bashful
coquetry which its copies, and the restored arms with their thin fingers by Bernini, seem to
impose on her.

She is, perhaps, a copy of that Venus of Cnidus of which Lucian relates an interesting story;
you imagine while looking at her, the youths' kisses prest on the marble lips, and the exclamations
of Charicles who, on seeing it, declared Mars to be the most fortunate of gods. Around the
statues, on the eight sides of the wall, hang the masterpieces of the leading painters. There
is the "Madonna of the Goldfinch" by Raphael, pure and candid, like an angel whose soul is
a bud not yet in bloom; his "St. John," nude, a fine youthful form of fourteen, healthy and
vigorous, in which the purest paganism lives over again; and especially a superb head of a
crowned female, radiant as a summer noonday, with fixt and earnest gaze, her complexion of
that powerful southern carnation which the emotions do not change, where the blood does not
pulsate convulsively and to which passion only adds a warmer glow, a sort of Roman muse in
whom will still prevails over intellect, and whose vivacious energy reveals itself in repose
as well as in action.

In one corner a tall cavalier by Van Dyck, in black and with a broad frill, seems as grandly
and gloriously proud in character as in proportions, primarily through a well-fed body and
next through the undisputed possession of authority and command. Three steps more and we come
to the "Flight into Egypt," by Correggio, the Virgin with a charming spirited face wholly suffused
with inward light in which the purity, archness, gentleness and wildness of a young girl combine
to shed the tenderest grace and impart the most fascinating allurements. Alongside of this
a "Sibyl" by Guercino, with her carefully adjusted coiffure and drapery, is the most spiritual
and refined of sentimental poetesses.

I pass twenty others in order to reserve the last look for Titian's two Venuses. One, facing
the door, reclines on a red velvet mantle, an ample vigorous torso as powerful as one of Rubens'
Bacchantes, but firmer--an energetic and vulgar figure, a simple, strong unintellectual courtezan.
She lies extended on her back, caressing a little cupid naked like herself, with the vacant
seriousness and passivity of soul of an animal in repose and expectant. The other, called "Venus
with the Dog," is a patrician's mistress, couched, adorned and ready. We recognize a palace
of the day, the alcove fitted up and colors tastefully and magnificently contrasted for the
pleasure of the eye; in the background are servants arranging clothes; through a window a section
of blue landscape is visible; the master is about to arrive.

Nowadays we devour pleasure secretly like stolen fruit; then it was served up on golden salvers
and people sat down to it at a table. It is because pleasure was not vile or bestial. This
woman holding a bouquet in her hand in this grand columnar saloon has not the vapid smile or
the wanton and malicious air of an adventuress about to commit a bad action. The calm of evening
enters the palace through noble architectural openings. Under the pale green of the curtains
lies the figure on a white sheet, slightly flushed with the regular pulsation of life, and
developing the harmony of her undulating forms. The head is small and placid; the soul does
not rise above the corporal instincts; hence she can resign herself to them without shame,
while the poesy of art, luxury and security on all sides comes to decorate and embellish them.
She is a courtezan but also a lady; in those days the former did not efface the latter; one
was as much a title as the other and, probably, in demeanor, affection and intellect one was
as good as the other. The celebrated Imperia had her tomb in the church of San Gregorio, at
Rome, with this inscription: "Imperia, a Roman courtezan worthy of so great a name, furnished
an example to men of perfect beauty, lived twenty-six years and twelve days, and died in 1511,
August 25." ...

On passing from the Italian into the Flemish galleries one is completely turned around; here
are paintings executed for merchants content to remain quietly at home eating good dinners
and speculating over the profits of their business; moreover in rainy and muddy countries dress
has to be cared for, and by the women more than the men. The mind feels itself contracted on
entering the circle of this well-to-do domestic life; such is the impression of Corinne when
from liberal Italy she passes to rigid and dreary Scotland. And yet there is a certain picture,
a large landscape by Rembrandt, which equals and surpasses all; a dark sky bursting with showers
among flocks of screaming crows; beneath, is an infinite stretch of country as desolate as
a cemetery; on the right a mass of barren rocks of so mournful and lugubrious a tint as to
attain to the sublime in effect. So is it with an andante of Beethoven after an Italian Opera.

III

VENICE

THE APPROACH FROM THE SEA[42]

BY CHARLES YRIARTE

To taste in all their fulness his first impressions of Venice, the traveler should arrive there
by sea, at mid-day, when the sun is high. By degrees, as the ship which carries him enters
the channels, he will see the unparalleled city emerging from the lap of the lagoon, with its
proud campaniles, its golden spires, its gray or silvery domes and cupolas. Advancing along
the narrow channels of navigation, posts and piles dot here and there with black that sheet
of steel, and give substance to the dream, making solid and tangible the foreground of the
illusive distance.

Just now, all that enchanted world and fairy architecture floated in the air; little by little
all has become distinct; those points of dark green turn into gardens; that mass of deep red
is the line of the ship-building yards, with their leprous-looking houses and with the dark-colored
stocks on which are erected the skeletons of polaccas and feluccas in course of construction;
the white line showing so bright in the sun is the Riva dei Schiavoni, all alive with its world
of gondoliers, fruit-sellers, Greek sailors, and Chioggiotes in their many-colored costumes.
The rose-colored palace with the stunted colonnade is the Ducal Palace. The vessel, on its
way to cast anchor off the Piazzetta, coasts round the white and rose-colored island which
carries Palladio's church of Santa Maria Maggiore, whose firm campanile stands out against
the sky with Grecian clearness and grace. Looking over the bow, the traveler has facing him
the Grand Canal, with the Custom House where the figure of Fortune veers with the wind above
her golden ball; beyond rise the double domes of the Salute with their great reversed consoles,
forming the most majestic entrance to this watery avenue bordered by palaces.

He who comes for the first time to Venice by this route realizes a dream--his only dream perhaps
ever destined to be surpassed by the reality; and if he knows how to enjoy the beauty of nature,
if he can take delight in silver-gray and rose-colored reflections in water, if he loves light
and color, the picturesque life of Italian squares and streets, the good humor of the people
and their gentle speech which seems like the twittering of birds, let him only allow himself
to live for a little time under the sky of Venice, and he has before him a season of happiness
without alloy.

THE APPROACH BY TRAIN[43]

BY THE EDITOR

After leaving Padua the land for several miles is flat sand. No grass or tree grows here. Lagoons
and canals intersect the land. At the right are marshes bordering the Adriatic. Along the horizon,
light smoky clouds blend imperceptibly with the water. Other clouds, floating overhead, are
reflected in the brown and waveless water. Far across this expanse glides here and there a
small boat, propelled by a man standing erect. Through dim mists, settled over the bay, we
sight flying birds that call loudly as they increase their flight. Absolutely without motion
is this water. The sole objects that move are boats and birds. The water shimmers and sparkles
wherever the sun, passing in and out of clouds, lights it up. The shallow bay broadens until
our view includes no land. Everywhere extends a realm of waveless waters, in which fishing
stakes stand erect, and tall plants grow.

How strangely all this differs from the blue Mediterranean we saw a fortnight ago when riding
from Genoa to Leghorn, under that cloudless sky of blue; in that stirring breeze, and an almost
tropical temperature, tho it was late in December; along that rocky, tunnel-pierced coast,
with deep olive groves bordering the way; the sea a boundless vision of water moving and resounding
against the shore; whitecaps everywhere visible on its broad expanse. Here on this road to
Venice is complete repose, lifeless, sleepy repose--as of the dead--not without poetry, but
of the Orient and of mystics, rather than of Provence, or the Ligurian shore and active, stalwart
men.

We sight in the distance over the lagoon, the white walls and roof line of Venice. The railway
starts on its long course over one of the noblest bridges in the world. It is more than two
miles long. Some 80,000 piles were used in its foundations, the superstructure entirely of
stone, with arches of 33 feet span each, and 222 in number. Along the roadway, on either side
is a stone balustrade. At each pier a balcony curves outward. For four years a thousand men
were engaged in building this viaduct, and the total cost was $10,000,000. Having crossed,
we reach an island; then cross another, but shorter, bridge and pass to another island. Our
train thereafter comes to a stop for we have reached Venice and enter a magnificent station,
built of stone, with high semi-circular roof, lofty waiting rooms, mosaic floors. We pass out
through a spacious doorway, and directly below, and in front, see the Grand Canal, bordered
on its farther shore by palaces and other noble structures of white marble. A wide and broad
plaza here fronts the water, and a stairway at its edge leads downward to where are waiting
a score of gondolas.

We step into one of these boats, and begin our first gondola ride in Adriatic waters. It is
late afternoon. The western sun lies dying in a mass of yellow and soft brown clouds. On the
high walls of the great white station its rays fall with startling brightness and cast long
shadows of waiting gondoliers upon the plaza floor. The white palaces opposite are shrouded
in somber hues. A warm mist seems to rise from the water. All is still as in the mid-Atlantic.
When a sound is made, echoes sharp and clear come from shore to shore.

Our boat glides away from this scene. Adjusting ourselves to its motion, we roll from side
to side in our little house of glass on a downy seat and could pass the whole night here contentedly.
Such rest, such appalling silence, we never knew before. Those gondoliers do their work with
consummate skill. They have all the ease that comes of practise in any calling however difficult.
The sharp cut of an oar as it enters the water is for a moment heard, but never a splash. The
boat rolls constantly, but we feel no strain. It moves as if it were a toy swan drawn by a
magnet in a child's hand.

From the Grand Canal we enter a narrow street. Sharp corners are turned quickly, swift-moving
boats are passed, narrow passages entered, and we glide into deep shadows under bridges, but
never a collision, or danger of one, occurs. The gondolier at crossings cries out his warning.
We hear, but do not see, another who calls aloud in similar tones. The two voices are heard
again, each in an echo. Far away in this watery but populous solitude, a church bell tolls.

We have had a quarter-hour's ride when the gondola comes to rest before broad stone steps leading
upward to a wide doorway. Here is our hotel, an ancient palace, rich in marble and granite,
with broad corridor, a noble stairway, and mosaic floors. It is Sunday on St. Mark's Place--a
bright, warm Sunday it has been, such as winter can not give in our own country. Here, indeed,
is a foreign land, its life and spirit more foreign than Rome. No scene in the wide world can
rival this St. Mark's scene, with the islands across the way in the broad lagoon--a magnificent
piazza, bordered by the façades of splendid palaces, by statues, columns, and ornate capitals,
another piazza near it surrounded on three sides by noble arcaded structures and on the fourth
by the half Gothic, half Byzantine Church of St. Mark's, the most resplendent Christian edifice
in Europe. In one corner rises the stupendous Campanile, high above palace roofs, arcades and
church domes, its bells sounding their notes upon an otherwise silent world.

A TOUR OF THE GRAND CANAL[44]

BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

The Grand Canal of Venice is the most wonderful thing in the world. No other city affords a
spectacle so fine, so bizarre, so fairy-like. As remarkable bits of architecture, perhaps,
can be found elsewhere, but nowhere located under such picturesque conditions.

There each palace has a mirror in which to gaze at its beauty, like a coquettish woman. The
superb reality is doubled by a charming reflection. The water lovingly caresses the feet of
these beautiful façades, which a white light kisses on the forehead, and cradles them in a
double sky. The small boats and big ships which are able to ascend it seem to be made fast
for the express purpose of serving as set-offs or ground-plans for the convenience of the decorators....

Each bit of wall narrates a story; every house is a palace; at each stroke of the oars the
gondolier mentions a name which was as well known in the times of the Crusades as it is to-day;
and this continues both to left and right for a distance of more than half a league. We have
made a list of these palaces, not of all, but the most remarkable, and we do not dare to transcribe
it here on account of its length. It covers five or six pages: Pierre Lombard, Scamozzi, Sansovino,
Sebastiano Mazzoni, Sammichelli, the great architect of Verona; Selva, Domenico Rossi, Visentini,
have drawn the plans and directed the construction of these princely dwellings, without reckoning
the unknown artists of the Middle Ages who built the most picturesque and most romantic of
them--those which give Venice its stamp and its originality.

On both banks, façades altogether charming and beautifully diversified succeed one another
without interruption. After an architecture of the Renaissance with its columns comes a palace
of the Middle Ages in Gothic Arab style, of which the Ducal Palace is the prototype, with its
balconies, lancet windows, trefoils, and acroteria. Further along is a façade adorned with
marble placques of various colors, garnished with medallions and consoles; then a great rose-colored
wall in which is cut a large window with columnets; all styles are found there--the Byzantine,
the Saracen, the Lombard, the Gothic, the Roman, the Greek, and even the Rococo; the column
and the columnet; the lancet and the semicircle; the fanciful capital, full of birds and of
flowers, brought from Acre or from Jaffa; the Greek capital found in Athenian ruins; the mosaic
and the bas-relief; the classic severity and elegant fantasy of the Renaissance. It is an immense
gallery open to the sky, where one can study from the bottom of his gondola the art of seven
or eight centuries. What treasures of genius, talent, and money have been expended on this
space which may be traversed in less than a quarter of an hour! What tremendous artists, but
also what intelligent and munificent patrons! What a pity that the patricians who knew how
to achieve such beautiful things no longer exist save on the canvases of Titian, of Tintoretto,
and du Moro!

Even before reaching the Rialto, you have, on the left, in ascending the Canal, the Palace
Dario, in Gothic style; the Palace Venier, which presents itself by an angle, with its ornamentation,
its precious marbles and medallions, in the Lombard style; the Fine Arts, a classic façade
joined to the old Ecole de la Charité and surmounted by a figure riding upon a lion; the Contarini
Palace, in architectural style of Scamozzi; the Rezzonico Palace with three superimposed orders;
the triple Giustiniani Palace, in the style of the Middle Ages, in which resides M. Natale
Schiavoni, a descendant of the celebrated painter Schiavoni, who possesses a gallery of pictures
and a beautiful daughter, the living reproduction of a canvas painted by her ancestor; The
Foscari Palace, recognizable by its low door, by its two stories of columnets supporting lancets
and trefoils, where in other days were lodged the sovereigns who visited Venice, but now abandoned;
the Balbi Palace, from the balcony of which the princes leaned to watch the regattas which
took place upon the Grand Canal with so much pomp and splendor, in the palmy days of the Republic;
the Pisani Palace, in the German style of the beginning of the fifteenth century; and the Tiepolo
Palace, very smart and relatively modern. On the right, there nestles between two big buildings,
a delicious little palace which is composed of a window and a balcony; but such a window and
balcony! A guipure of stone, of scrolls, of guillochages, and of open-work, which would seem
possible of execution only with a punching machine upon one of those sheets of paper which
cover baptismal sugar-plums, or are placed upon globes of lamps. We greatly regretted not having
twenty-five thousand francs about us to buy it, since that was all that was demanded for it....

The Rialto, which is the most beautiful bridge in Venice, with a very grandiose and monumental
air, bestrides the canal by a single span with a powerful and graceful curve. It was built
in 1691, under the Dogeship of Pasquale Cigogna, by Antonio da Ponte, and replaced the ancient
wooden drawbridge. Two rows of shops, separated in the middle by a portico in the form of an
arcade and permitting a glimpse of the sky, burden the sides of the bridge, which can be crossed
by three paths; that in the center and the exterior passageways furnished with balustrades
of marble.

Around the Bridge of the Rialto, one of the most picturesque spots of the Grand Canal, are
gathered the oldest houses in Venice, with platformed roofs, on which poles are planted to
hang banners; their long chimneys, their bulging balconies, their stairways with disjointed
steps, and their plaques of red coating, the fallen flakes of which lay bare the brick walls
and the foundations made green by contact with the water. There is always near the Rialto a
tumult of boats and gondolas and of stagnant islets of tied-up craft drying their tawny sails,
which are sometimes traversed by a large cross....

Below and beyond the Rialto are grouped on both banks the ancient Fondaco dei Tedeschi, upon
the colored walls of which, in uncertain tints, may be devined some frescoes of Titian and
Tintoretto, like dreams which come only to vanish; the fish-market, the vegetable market, and
the old and new buildings of Scarpagnino and of Sansovino, almost fallen in ruins, in which
are installed various courts....

On the right rises the Palace della Cà d'Oro, one of the most charming on the Grand Canal.
It belongs to Mademoiselle Taglioni,[45] who has restored it with most intelligent care. It
is all embroidered, fringed, carved in a Greek, Gothic, barbaric style, so fantastic, so light,
so aerial, that it might be fancied to have been built expressly for the nest of a sylph. Mlle.
Taglioni has pity for these poor, abandoned palaces. She has several of them en pension, which
she maintains out of pure commiseration for their beauty; we were told of three or four upon
which she has bestowed this charity of repair....

In going to a distance from the heart of the city, life is extinct. Many windows are closed
or barred with boards; but this sadness has its beauty; it is more perceptible to the soul
than to the eyes, regaled without cessation by the most unforeseen accidents of light and shade,
by buildings so varied that even their dilapidation only renders them more picturesque, by
the perpetual movement of the waters, and that blue and rose tint which composes the atmosphere
of Venice.

HOW THE OLD CAMPANILE WAS BUILT[48]

BY HORATIO F. BROWN

The wide discrepancy of the dates, 888 to 1148, may perhaps be accounted for by the conjecture
that the work of the building [the Campanile] proceeded slowly, either with a view to allowing
the foundations to consolidate, or owing to lack of funds, and that the chroniclers recorded
each resumption of work as the beginning of the work. One point may, perhaps, be fixt. The
Campanile must have been some way above ground by the year 997, for the hospital founded by
the sainted Doge, Pietro Orseolo, which is said to have been attached to the base of the tower,
was consecrated in that year. The Campanile was finished, as far as the bell-chamber at least,
in 1148, under the Doge Domenico Moresini, whose sarcophagus and bust surmount the portal of
the San Nicoll del Lido.

The chroniclers are at variance among themselves as to the date of the foundation, nor has
an examination of the foundations themselves led to any discovery which enables us to determine
that date; but one or two considerations would induce us to discard the earlier epochs. The
foundations must have been designed to carry a tower of the same breadth, tho possibly not
of the same height, as that which has recently fallen. But in the year of 888 had the Venetians
such a conception of their greatness as to project a tower far more massive than any which
had been hitherto constructed in Italy? Did they possess the wealth to justify them in such
an enterprise? Would they have designed such a tower to match St. Mark's, which was at that
time a small church with walls of wood? It is more probable that the construction of the Campanile
belongs to the period of the second church of St. Mark, which was begun after the fire of 976
and consecrated in 1094.

The height of the Campanile at the time of its fall was 98.60 meters (322 ft.), from the base
to the head of the angel, tho a considerable portion of this height was not added till 1510;
its width at the base of the shaft 12.80 meters (35 ft. 2 in.), and one meter (3 ft. 3 in.)
less at the top of the shaft. The weight has been calculated at about 18,000 tons.

Thanks to excavations at the base of the tower made by Com. Giacomo Boni, at the request of
Mr. C. H. Blackall, of Boston, U. S. A., in the year 1885, a report of which was printed in
the Archivio Veneto, we possess some accurate knowledge about a portion of the foundation upon
which this enormous mass rested.

The subsoil of Venice is composed of layers of clay, sometimes traversed by layers of peat,
overlying profound strata of watery sand. This clay is, in places, of a remarkably firm consistency;
for example, in the quarter of the town known as Dorsoduro or "hard-back," and at the spot
where the Campanile stood. A bore made at that point brought up a greenish, compact clay mixed
with fine shells. This clay, when dried, offered the resisting power of half-baked brick. It
is the remarkable firmness of this clay which enabled the Venetians to raise so ponderous a
structure upon so narrow a foundation.

The builders of the Campanile proceeded as follows: Into this bed of compact clay they first
drove piles of about 9 1/2 in. in diameter with a view to consolidate still further, by pressure,
the area selected. That area only extends 1.25 meter, or about 4 ft. beyond the spring of the
brickwork shaft of the tower. How deep these piles reach Boni's report does not state. The
piles, at the point where he laid the foundation bare, were found to be of white poplar, in
remarkably sound condition, retaining their color, and presenting closely twisted fiber. The
clay in which they were embedded has preserved them almost intact. The piles extended for one
row only beyond the superimposed structure. On the top of these piles the builders laid a platform
consisting of two layers of oak beams, crosswise. The lower layer runs in the line of the Piazza,
east to west, the upper in the line of the Piazzetta, north to south. Each beam is square and
a little over 4 in. thick. This oak platform appears to be in bad condition; the timbers are
blackened and friable. While the excavation was in progress sea-water burst through the interstices,
which had to be plugged.

Upon this platform was laid the foundation proper. This consisted of seven courses of stone
of various sizes and of various kinds--sandstone of two qualities, limestone from Istria and
Verona, probably taken from older buildings on the mainland, certainly not fresh-hewn from
the quarry. The seventh or lowest course was the deepest, and was the only one which escaped,
and that but slightly; the remaining six courses were intended to be perpendicular. These courses
varied widely from each other in thickness--from 0.31 to 0.90 meters. They were composed of
different and ill-assorted stone, and were held together in places by shallow-biting clamps
of iron, and by a mortar of white Istrian lime, which, not being hydraulic, and having little
affinity for sand, had become disintegrated. Boni calls attention to the careless structure
of this foundation proper, and maintains that it was designed to carry a tower of about two-thirds
of the actual height imposed upon it, but not more.

Above the foundation proper came the base. This consisted of five courses of stone set in stepwise.
These courses of the base were all the same kind of stone, in fairly regular blocks, and of
fairly uniform thickness. They were all intended to be seen, and originally rose from the old
brick pavement of the Piazza; but the gradual subsidence of the soil--which is calculated as
proceeding at the rate of nearly a meter per 1,000 years--caused two and a half of these stepped
courses to disappear, and only two and a half emerged from the present pavement.

Thus the structure upon which the brick shaft of the Campanile rested was composed of (1) the
base of five stepped courses, (2) the foundations of seven courses almost perpendicular, (3)
the platform of oak beams, and (4) the piles. The height of the foundation, including the base,
was 5.02 meters, about 16 ft., or one-twentieth of the height they carried. Not only is this
a very small proportion, but it will be further observed that the tradition of star-shaped
supports to the foundations is destroyed, and that they covered a very restricted area. In
fact, the foundations of the Campanile belonged to the primitive or narrow kind. The foundations
of the Ducal Palace, on the other hand, belonged to the more recent or extended kind. Those
foundations do not rest on piles, but on a very broad platform of larch beams--much thicker
than the oak beams of the Campanile platform--reposing directly on the clay. Upon this platform,
foundations with a distended escarpment were built to carry the walls, the weight of which
was thus distributed equally over a wide area.

Little of the old foundations of the Campanile will remain when the work on the new foundations
is completed. The primitive piles and platform are to stand; but new piles have been driven
in all round the original nucleus, and on them are being laid large blocks of Istrian stone,
which will be so deeply bonded into the old foundations that hardly more than a central core
of the early work will be left ...

In a peculiar fashion the Campanile of San Marco summed up the whole life of the city--civil,
religious, commercial, and military--and became the central point of Venetian sentiment. For
the tower served the double needs of the ecclesiastic and the civic sides of the Republic.
Its bells marked the canonical hours; rang the workman to his work, the merchant to his desk,
the statesman to the Senate; they pealed for victory or tolled for the demise of a Doge. The
tower, moreover, during the long course of its construction, roughly speaking, from the middle
of the tenth to the opening of the sixteenth centuries, was contemporary with all that was
greatest in Venetian history; for the close of the tenth century saw the conquest of Dalmatia,
and the foundations of Venetian supremacy in the Adriatic--that water-avenue to the Levant
and the Orient--while by the opening of the sixteenth the Cape route had been discovered, the
League of Cambray was in sight, and the end at hand.

The tower, too, was a landmark to those at sea, and when the mariner had the Campanile of San
Nicolo on the Lido covering the Campanile of St. Marks, he knew he had the route home and could
make the Lido port. The tower was the center of popular festivals, such as that of the Svolo
on Giovedi grasso, when an acrobat descended by a rope from the summit of the Campanile to
the feet of the Doge, who was a spectator from the loggia of the Ducal Palace.

HOW THE CAMPANILE FELL[49]

BY HORATIO T. BROWN

We come now to the dolorous moment of the fall in July, 1902. Infiltration of water had been
observed in the roof of Sansovino's Loggetta where that roof joined the shaft of the Campanile.
At this point a thin ledge of stone, let into the wall of the Campanile, projected over the
junction between the leaden roof of the Loggetta and the shaft of the tower. In order to remedy
the mischief of infiltration it was resolved to remove and replace this projecting ledge. To
do this a chase was made in the wall of the Campanile, which, at this point, consisted of a
comparatively modern surface of masonry, placed there to repair the damage caused by lightning
strokes.

This chase was cut, not piecemeal, but continuously. The work was carried out on Monday, July
7th. During the process the architect in charge became alarmed at the condition of the inner
part of the wall laid bare by the cut. He exprest his fears to his superiors, but apparently
no examination of the tower was made till the Thursday following. Even then the imminence of
the danger does not seem to have been grasped. On Saturday, the 12th, a crack was observed
spreading upward in a sloping direction from the cut above the roof of the Loggetta toward
the northeast angle of the shaft, then crossing the angle and running up almost perpendicularly
in the line of the little windows that gave light to the internal passage from the base to
the bell-chamber.

This crack assumed such a threatening aspect, and was making such visible progress, that the
authorities in charge of the tower felt bound to inform the Prefect, tho the danger was represented
as not immediate, and the worst they expected was the fall of the angle where the crack had
appeared. A complete collapse of the whole tower was absolutely excluded. As a precautionary
measure the music in the Piazza was suspended on Saturday evening. On Sunday orders were issued
to endeavor to bind the threatened angle.

But by Monday morning early (July 14th) it was evident that the catastrophe could not be averted.
Dust began to pour out of the widening crack, and bricks to fall. A block of Istrian stone
crashed down from the bell-chamber, then a column from the same site. At 9.47 the ominous fissure
opened, the face of the Campanile toward the church and the Ducal Palace bulged out, the angle
on the top and the pyramid below it swayed once or twice, and threatened to crush either the
Sansovino's Library or the Basilica of San Marco in their fall, then the whole colossus subsided
gently, almost noiselessly, upon itself, as it were in a curtsey, the ruined brick and mortar
spread out in a pyramidal heap, a dense column of white powder rose from the Piazza, and the
Campanile was no more.

It is certainly remarkable, and by the people of Venice it is reckoned as a miracle, that the
tower in its fall did so little harm. Not a single life was lost, tho the crowd in the Piazza
was unaware of its danger till about ten minutes before the catastrophe.

THE LAGOONS[52]

BY HORATIO F. BROWN

The colonization of the Venetian estuary is usually dated from the year 452, the period of
the Hunnish invasion under Attila, when the Scourge of God, as he was named by his terror-stricken
opponents, sacked the rich Roman cities of Aquileia, Concordia, Opitergium, and Padua. In one
sense the date is correct. The Hunnish invasion certainly gave an enormous increase to the
lagoon population, and called the attention of the mainlanders, to the admirable asylum which
the estuary offered in times of danger.

When Alcuin, the great scholar from Yorkshire, was teaching Charlemagne's son and heir, Pepin,
he drew up for his pupil's use a curious catechism of questions and answers. Among others this
occurs: "What is the sea." "A refuge in time of danger." Surely a strange answer, and one which
can hardly be reckoned as true except in the particular case of the Venetian lagoons. For the
mainlanders were caught between the devil of Attila and the deep sea of the Adriatic, and had
they not found the lagoons ready at hand to offer them an asylum and to prove a refuge in time
of danger, it must have fared hard with them.

But this date of 452 is not to be taken as the date of the very earliest occupation of the
lagoon. Long before Attila and his Huns swept down upon Italy, we know that there was a sparse
population occupying the estuary, engaged in fishing and in the salt trade. Cassiodorus, the
secretary of the Gothic King Theodoric the Great, has left us a picture of this people, hardy,
independent, toughened by their life on the salt water; their means of living; the fish of
the lagoons; their source of wealth; the salt which they extracted from its waters; their houses,
wattled cabins built upon piles driven into the mud; their means of locomotion light boats
which were tied to the door posts like horses on mainland.

"Thus you live in your sea-birds' home," he exclaims, "rich and poor under equal laws; a common
food supports you; house is like unto house; and envy, that curse of all the world, hath no
place there." No doubt this early population of the lagoons, already intimately associated
with its dwelling-place, modified by it and adapted to it, helped to form the basis upon which
the latter strata of population, the result of the Hunnish invasion, could rest; and in all
probability some of the characteristics of this early population, its independence and its
hardihood, passed into the composition of the full-grown Venetian race. But beyond the brief
words of Cassiodorus we know little about these early lagoon-dwellers. It is really with the
Hunnish invasion that the history of Venice begins its first period of growth.

The population which flocked from the mainland to seek refuge in the estuary of Venice came
from many different cities--from Aquileia, from Concordia, from Padua; and tho the inhabitants
of all these, no doubt, bore the external stamp which Rome never failed to impose, yet, equally
doubtless, they brought with them their own particular customs, their mutual hates and rivalries.

While living on the mainland these animosities had wider space in which to play, and were therefore
less dangerous, less explosive. But in the lagoons, under stress of suffering, and owing to
confinement and juxtaposition, they became intensified, exaggerated, and perilous. There was
a double problem before the growing Venetian population which required to be solved before
Venice and the Venetians could, with any justice, be considered a place and a people. First,
the various and largely hostile populations who had taken refuge in the lagoon had to be reconciled
to each other; and secondly, they had to be reconciled to their new home, to be identified
with it and made one with it.

The lagoon achieved both reconciliations; the isolation of its waters, their strangeness, gradually
created the feeling of unity, of family connection, among the diverse and hostile components
of the population, till a fusion took place between the original and the immigrant inhabitants,
and between the people and their home, and Venice and the Venetians emerge upon the history
of the world as an individual and full-grown race. But this reconciliation and identification
were not accomplished at once. They cost many years of struggle and of danger. The unification
of Venice is the history of a series of compromises, an historical example of the great law
of selection and survival.

THE DECLINE AMID SPLENDOR[53]

BY HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE TAINE

Venice the beautiful city ended, pagan-like, as did its sisters the Greek republics, through
nonchalance and voluptuousness. We find, indeed, from time to time, a Francis Morosini, who
like Aratus and Philopoemen, renews the heroism and victories of ancient days; but, after the
seventeenth century, its bright career is over. The city, municipal and circumscribed, is found
to be weak, like Athens and Corinth, against powerful military neighbors who either neglect
or tolerate it; the French and the Germans violate its neutrality with impunity; it subsists
and that is all, and it pretends to do no more. Its nobles care only to amuse themselves; war
and politics with them recede in the background; she becomes gallant and worldly....

But the evening of this fallen city is as mellow and as brilliant as a Venetian sunset. With
the absence of care gaiety prevails. One encounters nothing but public and private fêtes in
the memoirs of their writers and in the pictures of their painters. At one time it is a pompous
banquet in a superb saloon festooned with gold, with tall lustrous windows and pale crimson
curtains, the doge in his simarre dining with the magistrates in purple robes, and masked guests
gliding over the floor; nothing is more elegant than the exquisite aristocracy of their small
feet, their slender necks and their jaunty little three-cornered hats among skirts flounced
with yellow or pearly gray silks.

At another it is a regatta of gondolas and we see on the sea between San-Marco and San-Giorgio,
around the huge Bucentaur[54] like a leviathan cuirassed with scales of gold, flotillas of
boats parting the water with their steel becks. A crowd of pretty dominos, male and female,
flutter over the pavements; the sea seems to be of polished slate under a tender azure sky
spotted with cloud-flocks while all around, as in a precious frame, like a fantastic border
carved and embroidered, the Procuraties, the domes, the palaces and the quays thronged with
a joyous multitude, encircle the great maritime Venetian sheet....

In truth they never concern themselves with religion except to repress the Pope; in theory
and in practise, in ideas and in instincts, they inherit the manners, customs and spirit of
antiquity, and their Christianity is only a name. Like the ancients, they were at first heroes
and artists, and then voluptuaries and dilettanti; in one as in the other case they, like the
ancients, confined life to the present. In the eighteenth century they might be compared to
the Thebans of the decadence who, leagued together to consume their property in common, bequeathed
what remained of their fortunes on dying to the survivors at their banquets. The carnival lasts
six months; everybody, even the priests, the guardian of the capucins, the nuncio, little children,
all who frequent the markets, wear masks. People pass by in processions disguised in the costumes
of Frenchmen, lawyers, gondoliers, Calabrians and Spanish soldiery, dancing and with musical
instruments; the crowd follows jeering or applauding them. There is entire liberty; prince
or artizan, all are equal; each may apostrophize a mask. Pyramids of men form "pictures of
strength" on the public squares; harlequins in the open air perform parades. Seven theaters
are open. Improvizators declaim and comedians improvize amusing scenes. "There is no city where
license has such sovereign rule." ...

The Chiogga campaign is the last act of the old heroic drama; there, as in the best days of
the ancient republics, a besieged people is seen to save itself against all hope, artizans
equipping vessels, a Pisani conqueror undergoing imprisonment and only released to renew the
victory, a Carlo Zeno, surviving forty wounds, and a doge of seventy years of age; a Contarini,
who makes a vow not to leave his vessel so long as the enemy's fleet is uncaptured, thirty
families, apothecaries, grocers, vintners, tanners admitted among the nobles, a bravery, a
public spirit like that of Athens under Themistocles and of Rome under Fabius Cunctator. If,
from this time forth, the inward fire abates we still feel its warmth for many long years,
longer kept up than in the rest of Italy, and sometimes demonstrating its power by sudden outbursts.

The nobles, on their side, are always ready to fight. During the whole of the sixteenth century,
even up to the seventeenth and beyond, we see them in Dalmatia, in the Morea, over the entire
Mediterranean, defending the soil inch by inch against the infidels. The garrison of Famagouste
yields only to famine, and its governor, Bragadino, burned alive, is a hero of ancient days.
At the battle of Lepanto the Venetians alone furnish one half of the Christian fleet. Thus
on all sides, and notwithstanding their gradual decline, peril, energy, love of country, all,
in brief, which constitutes or sustains the grand life of the soul here subsists, while throughout
the peninsula foreign dominion, clerical oppression and voluptuous or academical inertia reduces
man to the system of the antechamber, the subtleties of dilettantism and the babble of sonnets.

But if the human spring is not broken at Venice, it is seen insensibly losing its elasticity.
The government, changed into a suspicious despotism, elects a Mocenigo doge, a shameless speculator
profiting on the public distress, instead of that Charles Zeno who had saved the country; it
holds Zeno prisoner two years and entrusts the armies on the mainland to condottieri; it is
tied up in the hands of three inquisitors, provokes accusations, practises secret executions
and commands the people to confine themselves to indulgences of pleasure. On the other hand
luxury arises. About the year 1400 the houses "were quite small;" but a thousand nobles were
enumerated in Venice possessing from four to seventy thousand ducats rental, while three thousand
ducats were sufficient to purchase a palace.

Henceforth this great wealth is no longer to be employed in enterprises and in self-devotion,
but in pomp and magnificence. In 1495, Commine admires "the grand canal, the most beautiful
street, I think, in the world, and with the best houses; the houses are very grand, high and
of excellent stone--and these have been built within a century. All have fronts of white marble,
which comes from Istria, a hundred miles away, and yet many more great pieces of porphyry and
of serpentine on them; inside they have, most of them, at least two chambers with gilded ceilings,
rich screens of chimneys with carved marble, the bedsteads gilded and the 'ostevents' painted
and gilded and well furnished within." On his arrival twenty-five gentlemen attired in silk
and scarlet come to meet him; they conduct him to a boat decked with crimson silk; "it is this
most triumphant city I ever saw."

Finally, while the necessity of pleasure grows the spirit of enterprise diminishes; the passage
of the Cape in the beginning of the sixteenth century places the commerce of Asia in the hands
of the Portuguese; on the Mediterranean and the Atlantic the financial measures of Charles
V., joined to bad usage by the Turks, render abortive the great maritime caravans which the
state dispatches yearly between Alexandria and Bruges. In respect to industrial matters, the
hampered artizans, watched and cloistered in their country, cease to perfect their arts and
allow foreign competitors to surpass them in processes and in furnishing supplies to the world.

Thus, on all sides, the capacity for activity becomes lessened and the desire for enjoyment
greater without one entirely effacing the other, but in a way that, both commingling, they
produce that ambiguous state of mind similar to a mixed temperature which is never too severe
and in which the arts are generated. Indeed, it is from 1454 to 1572, between the institution
of state inquisitors and the battle of Lepanto, between the accomplishment of internal despotism
and the last of the great outward victories, that the brilliant productions of Venetian art
appear. John Bellini was born in 1426, Giorgone died in 1511, Titian in 1578, Veronese in 1572
and Tintoretto in 1594. In this interval of one hundred and fifty years this warrior city,
this mistress of the Mediterranean, this queen of commerce and of industry became a casino
for masqueraders and a den of courtezans.

THE DOVES OF ST. MARK'S[55]

BY HORATIO F. BROWN

In Venice the pigeons do not allow you to forget them, even if one desired to forget a bird
that is so intimately connected with the city and with a great ceremony of that ancient republic
which has passed away. They belong so entirely to the place, and especially to the great square;
they have made their homes for so many generations among the carvings of the Basilica, at the
feet of the bronze horses, and under the massive cornices of the New Procuratie, that the great
Campanile itself is hardly more essential to the character of the piazza than are these delicate
denizens of Saint Mark's.

In the structure of the ducal palace, the wants of the pigeons have been taken into account,
and near the two great wells which stand in the inner courtyard little cups of Istrian stone
have been let into the pavement for the pigeons to drink from. On cold, frosty mornings you
may see them tapping disconsolately at the ice which covers their drinking troughs, and may
win their thanks by breaking it for them. Or if the wind blows hard from the east, the pigeons
sit in long rows under the eaves of the Procuratie; their necks drawn into their shoulders,
and the neck feathers ruffled round their heads, till they have lost all shape, and look like
a row of slate-colored cannon-balls.

From Saint Mark's the pigeons have sent out colonies to the other churches and campi of Venice.
They have crossed the Grand Canal, and roost and croon among the volutes of the Salute, or,
in wild weather, wheel high and airly above its domes. They have even found their way to Malamocco
and Mazzorbo; so that all Venice in the sea owns and protects its sacred bird. But it is in
Saint Mark's that the pigeons "most do congregate;" and one can not enter the piazza, and stand
for a moment at the corner, without hearing the sudden rush of wings upon the air, and seeing
the white under-feathers of their pinions, as the doves strike backward to check their flight,
and flutter down at one's feet in expectation of peas or grain. They are boundlessly greedy,
and will stuff themselves till they can hardly walk, and the little red feet stagger under
the loaded crop. They are not virtuous, but they are very beautiful.

There is a certain fitness in the fact that the dove should be the sacred bird of the sea city.
Both English "dove" and Latin "columba" mean the diver; and the dove uses the air much as the
fish uses the sea, it glides, it dives, it shoots through its airy ocean; it hovers against
the breeze, or presses its breast against the sirocco storm, as you may see fish poised in
their course against the stream; then with a sudden turn it relaxes the strain and sweeps away
down the wind. The dove is an airy emblem of the sea upon which Venice and the Venetians live,
but more than that--the most permanent quality in the color of the lagoons, where the lights
are always shifting, is the dove-tone of sea and sky; a tone which holds all colors in solution,
and out of which they emerge as the water-ripples or the cloud-flakes pass--just as the colors
are shot and varied on a young dove's neck.

There is some doubts as to the origin of these flocks of pigeons which shelter in Saint Mark's.
According to one story, Henry Dandolo, the Crusader, was besieging Candia; he received valuable
information from the interior of the island by means of carrier-pigeons, and, later on, sent
news of his successes home to Venice by the same messengers. In recognition of these services
the government resolved to maintain the carriers at the public cost; and the flocks of to-day
are the descendants of the fourteenth-century pigeons. The more probable tradition, however,
is that which connects these pigeons with the antique ceremonies of Palm Sunday.

On that festival the Doge made the tour of the piazza, accompanied by all the officers of State,
the Patriarch, the foreign ambassadors, the silver trumpets, all the pomp of the ducal dignity.
Among other largess of that day, a number of pigeons, weighted by pieces of paper tied to their
legs, used to be let loose from the gallery where the bronze horses stand, above the western
door of the church. Most of the birds were easily caught by the crowd, and kept for their Easter
dinner; but some escaped, and took refuge in the upper parts of the palace and among the domes
of Saint Mark's. The superstition of the people was easily touched, and the birds that had
sought the protection of the saint were thenceforth dedicated to the patron of Venice. The
charge of supporting them was committed to the superintendents of the corn stores, and the
usual hour for feeding the pigeons was nine o'clock in the morning. During the revolution of
1797, the birds fared as badly as the aristocracy, and were left to take care of themselves;
but when matters settled down again the feeding of the pigeons was resumed by the municipality,
and takes place at two in the afternoon, tho the incessant largess of strangers can leave the
birds but little appetite for their regular meal.

In spite of the multitudes of pigeons that haunt the squares of the city, a dead pigeon is
as rare to see as a dead donkey on the mainland. It is a pious opinion that no Venetian ever
kills a pigeon, and apparently they never die; but the fact that they do not increase so rapidly
as to become a nuisance instead of a pleasure, lends some color to the suspicion that pigeon
pies are not unknown at certain tables during the proper season.

CADORE, TITIAN'S BIRTHPLACE[57]

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS

We reached Pieve di Cadore about half-past eleven A.M., delays included. The quaint old piazza
with its gloomy arcades, its antique houses with Venetian windows, its cafés, its fountain,
and its loungers, is just like the piazzas of Serravalle, Longarone, and other provincial towns
of the same epoch. With its picturesque Prefettura and belfry-tower one is already familiar
in the pages of Gilbert's "Cadore." There, too, is the fine old double flight of steps leading
up to the principal entrance on the first floor, as in the town-hall at Heilbronn--a feature
by no means Italian; and there, about midway up the shaft of the campanile, is the great, gaudy,
well-remembered fresco, better meant than painted, wherein Titian, some twelve feet in height,
robed and bearded, stands out against an ultramarine background, looking very like the portrait
of a caravan giant at a fair....

Turning aside from the glowing piazza and following the downward slope of a hill to the left
of the Prefettura, we come, at the distance of only a few yards, upon another open space, grassy
and solitary, surrounded on three sides by rambling, dilapidated-looking houses, and opening
on the fourth to a vista of woods and mountains. In this little piazza stands a massive stone
fountain, time-worn and water-worn, surmounted by a statue of Saint Tiziano in the robes and
square cap of an ecclesiastic. The water trickling through two metal pipes in the pedestal
beneath Saint Tiziano's feet, makes a pleasant murmuring in the old stone basin; while, half
hidden behind this fountain, and leaning up as if for shelter against a larger house adjoining,
stands-a small whitewashed cottage upon the side-wall of which an incised tablet bears the
following record:

    "Nel MCCCCLXXVII Fra Queste Vmili Mura Tiziano Vecellio Vene a
    celebre Vita Donde vsciva gia presso a cento Anni In Venezia Addi
    XXVII Agosto MDLXXVI."

A poor, mean-looking, low-roofed dwelling, disfigured by external chimney-shafts and a built-out
oven; lit with tiny, blinking, medieval windows; altogether unlovely; altogether unnoticeable;
but--the birthplace of Titian!

It looked different, no doubt, when he was a boy and played outside here on the grass. It had
probably a high, steep roof, like the homesteads in his own landscape drawings; but the present
old brown tiles have been over it long enough to get mottled with yellow lichens. One would
like to know if the fountain and the statue were there in his time; and if the water trickled
ever to the same low tune; and if the women came there to wash their linen and fill their brazen
water jars, as they do now. This lovely green hill, at all events, sheltered the home from
the east winds; and Monte Duranno lifted his strange crest yonder against the southern horizon;
and the woods dipt down to the valley, then as now, where the bridle-path slopes away to join
the road to Venice.

We went up to the house, and knocked. The door was opened by a sickly, hunchbacked lad who
begged us to walk in, and who seemed to be quite alone there. The house was very dark, and
looked much older inside than from without. A long, low, gloomy upstairs chamber with a huge
penthouse fire-place jutting into the room, was evidently as old as the days of Titian's grandfather,
to whom the house originally belonged; while a very small and very dark adjoining closet, with
a porthole of window sunk in a slope of massive wall, was pointed out as the room in which
the great painter was born.

"But how do you know that he was born here?" I asked. The hunchback lifted his wasted hand
with a deprecating gesture. "They have always said so, Signora," he replied. "They have said
so for more than four hundred years."

"They?" I repeated, doubtfully. "The Vecelli, Signora." "I had understood that the Vecellio
family was extinct." "Scusate, Signora," said the hunchback. "The last direct descendant of
'Il Tiziano' died not long ago--a few years before I was born; and the collateral Vecelli are
citizens of Cadore to this day. If the Signora will be pleased to look for it, she will see
the name of Vecellio over a shop on the right-hand side, as she returns to the Piazza."

I did look for it; and there, sure enough, over a small shop-window I found it. It gave one
an odd sort of shock, as if time were for the moment annihilated; and I remember how, with
something of the same feeling, I once saw the name of Rubens over a shop-front in the market-place
at Cologne.

I left the house less incredulous than I entered it. Of the identity of the building there
has never been any kind of doubt; and I am inclined to accept with the house the identity of
the room. Titian, it should be remembered, lived long enough to become, long before he died,
the glory of his family. He became rich; he became noble; his fame filled Italy. Hence the
room in which he was born may well have acquired, half a century before his death--perhaps
even during the lifetime of his mother--that sort of sacredness which is generally of post-mortem
growth. The legend, handed down from Vecellio to Vecellio in uninterrupted succession, lays
claim, therefore, to a more reliable pedigree than most traditions of a similar character.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] From "Travels in Italy." Translated by A. J. W. Morrison and Charles Nisbet. Goethe's visit
to Italy was made in 1786. He was then only thirty-seven years of age. The visit had important
influence on his subsequent career. The greatest of his works were still to be written. It
was not until after 1794 that Goethe devoted himself entirely to literature.

[2] Goethe at this time had published several short plays besides "The Sorrows of Werthé,"
"Wilhelm Meister," and a few other works less important.

[3] By that name Italians know the Pantheon.

[4] From "Remarks on Several Parts of Italy in the years 1701, 1702, 1703." At the time of
his departure for Italy, Addison was twenty-nine years old. None of his important works had
then been written.

[5] Addison's belief has been amply justified by the extensive excavations made since his time.

[6] From "Ancient Rome, In the Light of Recent Discoveries." By special arrangement with, and
by permission of, the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co. Copyright, 1888.

[7] Lanciani here has referred to the Catholic Church, in which historians have seen, in the
spiritual sense, a survival of imperial Rome.

[8] From "Six Months in Italy." Published by Houghton, Mifflin CO.

[9] From "Six Months in Italy." Published by Houghton, Mifflin Co.

[10] Mr. Hillard was writing in 1853.

[11] From "The Ruins and Excavations of Ancient Rome." By special arrangement with, and by
permission of, the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin Co. Copyright, 1897.

[12] This mausoleum, built by Augustus on the bank of the Tiber for himself and his family,
had long been used as the imperial sepulcher.

[13] From "Rome." By arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers, John C. Winston
Co. Copyright, 1897.

[14] From "Italy: Rome and Naples." By special arrangement with, and by permission of, the
publishers, Henry Holt & Co. Copyright, 1868. Translated by John Durand.

[17] From "Haps and Mishaps of a Tour in Europe." Mrs. Lippincott's visit was made in 1852.

[18] From "Recollections of the Last Four Popes, and of Rome in their Times." Nicholas Patrick
Stephen Wiseman (1802-1865), an English cardinal, was famous during his lifetime for intellectual
vigor and scholarly attainments. In presenting an intimate view of a papal election it was
his unusual privilege to describe not only "the things he saw," but also, as his later destiny
revealed, to tell of the things of which he formed a part. The election pictured is that of
Leo XII.

[19] From "Six Novices on the Grand Tour, by One of Them." Privately printed. (1911.) By permission
of the author.

[20] From "Six Months in Italy."

[22] From "Pictures from Italy."

[23] From "The Marble Faun." Published by Houghton, Mifflin Co.

[24] From "Pencillings by the Way."

[25] From "Pictures from Italy."

[27] Hiram Powers, the American sculptor, who lived long in Florence, and is best known for
his "Greek Slave."

[28] From "Journeys in Italy." By special arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers,
Brentano's. Copyright, 1902.

[29] From "Florence."

[30] From Taine's "Italy: Florence and Venice." By special arrangement with, and by permission
of, the publishers. Henry Holt & Co. Translated by John Durand. Copyright, 1869.

[31] Since Taine wrote, the façade has been added.

[32] From "Italian Cities." By special arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers,
Charles Scribner's Sons. Copyright, 1900.

[33] From "The Makers of Florence." Published by the Macmillan Co.

[34] That is, the Baptistery at Florence.

[35] From "Florence." By permission of the publishers, John C. Winston Co. Copyright, 1837.

[36] From "Florence." By permission of the publishers, John C. Winston Co. Copyright, 1897.

[37] From "Florence." By permission of the publishers, John C. Winston Co. Copyright, 1897.

[38] Dante was buried at Ravenna. Translated by John Durand.

[40] From "Letters of a Traveller." Bryant's letter is dated in May, 1834.

[41] The court of the Austrian Grand Duke Leopold III. In 1859 Leopold was expelled, and Florence,
with Tuscany, was annexed to the Sardinian kingdom.

[42] From "Venice: Its History, Art, Industries and Modern Life." Published by John C. Winston Co.

[43] From "Two Months Abroad." Privately printed. (1878.)

[44] From "Journeys In Italy." By arrangement with, and by permission of, the publishers, Brentano's.
Copyright, 1902.

[45] Marie Taglioni, the ballet dancer, who was born in Stockholm of Italian parents in 1804
and married to Count Gilbert de Voisons in 1847, when she retired from the stage. She died in 1884.

[46] From "The Stones of Venice." St. Mark's is merely a church. It is not a cathedral; that
is, it is not the "cathedra" of a bishop. Originally it was the private chapel of the Doge.
Likewise, St. Peter's at Rome is a church only--the church of the Pope. The cathedral of the
Pope (who is the Bishop of Rome), is St. John Lateran.

[47] Venice and territory adjacent to it were long in subjection to Austria. Having put an
end to the republic in 1797 (the republic had then had an unbroken existence for about thirteen
hundred years), Napoleon, by the treaty of Campo Formio, ceded this territory to Austria. In
1805, however, Venetia was added by Napoleon to his Kingdom of Italy. In 1814, after the first
fall of Napoleon, it was ceded back to Austria and in 1815 became part of the Lombardo-Venetian
Kingdom. Under the leadership of Manin, in 1848, a republic was proclaimed in Venice, but Austria
laid siege to the city and captured it. It was not until 1866, at the conclusion of the war
against Austria, that Venice was annexed to the new Italian kingdom of Victor Emmanuel.

[48] From "In and Around Venice." Published by Charles Scribner's Sons.

[49] From "In and Around Venice." Published by Charles Scribner's Sons. After its fall, the
Venetians set about raising funds for rebuilding the Campanile. In the course of several years,
the new structure was finished and the event duly commemorated.

[50] From "The Stones of Venice."

[51] Several men of this name are famous in Venetian annals, as soldiers, statesmen and doges.
The one here referred to is Tommaso, who defeated the Turks, added Dalmatia to the Venetian
domain, greatly encouraged commerce and founded the Venetian library.

[52] From "Life on the Lagoons."

[54] The state ship of Venice.

[55] From "Life on the Lagoons." Published by the Macmillan Co.

[56] From "The Stones of Venice."

[57] From "Untrodden Peaks and Unfrequented Valleys: A Midsummer Ramble in the Dolomites."
Published by E. P. Dutton & Co.

