All the cases I have mentioned are authentic, and numerous witnesses will testify to all I
have reported.

I was in Washington county in the latter part of June, and there learned there was a disposition
to coerce the labor of these people on plantations where they had always been abused. I was
alone, and consequently could not go where my presence was most required, but I learned enough
then to convince me there were many grievances which required military power to redress. Since
my return I have been attentive to the recital of the horrors which these people suffer, and
have carefully perused their statements, which receive corroborate testimony.

I have been careful in authenticity, and very much that has been related to me I have declined
accepting as testimony, although I believe its truth.

The history of all these cases, besides others, I have in full, with all their horrible particulars.

Believing, sir, you required the earliest intelligence in this matter, I concluded not to await
your arrival.

With much respect, I am, sir, your obedient servant,

W.A. POILLON, Captain and Ass't. Sup't. Freedmen.

Brig. Gen. SWAYNE.

A true copy of the original deposited in this office.

CHARLES A. MILLER, Major and A.A.A. General.

No. 23.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, July 8, 1865.

Captain: I have the honor to report that, in compliance with Special Orders No. 5, Headquarters
Sub-district Southwest Mississippi, I proceeded to the counties of Madison, Holmes, and Yazoo,
but that I did not reach Issaquena from the fact that the country between Yazoo City and that
county has been so overflowed as to render the roads impassable.

I found a provost marshal of freedmen at Yazoo City--Lieutenant Fortu, who seemed to understand
his duties well, and to have performed them satisfactorily. There was no officer of the bureau
in either of the other counties. The whole country is in a state of social and political anarchy,
and especially upon the subject of the freedom of the negroes, but very few who understand
their rights and duties.

It is of the utmost importance that officers of the bureau should be sent to all the counties
of the State to supervise the question of labor, and to insure the gathering of the growing
crop, which, if lost, will produce the greatest suffering. In no case ought a citizen of the
locality be appointed to manage the affairs of the freedmen: first, because these men will
wish to stand well with their neighbors and cannot do justice to the negro; and secondly, because
the negroes only know these men as oppressors of their race, and will have no confidence in
their acts. The officers of the bureau should be especially charged to impress upon the freedmen
the sacredness of the family relation and the duty of parents to take care of their children,
and of the aged and infirm of their race. Where a man and woman have lived together as husband
and wife, the relation should be declared legitimate, and all parties, after contracting such
relations, should be compelled to legal marriage by severe laws against concubinage. Where
parents have deserted their children, they should be compelled to return and care for them;
otherwise there will be great suffering among the women and children, for many of the planters
who have lost the male hands from their places threaten to turn off the women and children,
who will become a burden to the community. The two evils against which the officers will have
to contend are cruelty on the part of the employer, and shirking on the part of the negroes.
Every planter with whom I have talked premised his statements with the assertion that "a nigger
won't work without whipping." I know that this is not true of the negroes as a body heretofore.
A fair trial should be made of free labor by preventing a resort to the lash. It is true that
there will be a large number of negroes who will shirk labor; and where they persistently refuse
compliance with their contracts, I would respectfully suggest that such turbulent negroes be
placed upon public works, such as rebuilding the levees and railroads of the State, where they
can be compelled to labor, and where their labor will be of benefit to the community at large.

It will be difficult for the employers to pay their laborers quarterly, as required by present
orders. Money can only be realized yearly on a cotton crop, because to make such a crop requires
an entire year's work in planting, picking, ginning, and sending to market. The lien upon the
crop secures the laborer his pay at the end of the year, for which he can afford to wait, as
all the necessaries of life are furnished by the planter, who could not pay quarterly except
at a great sacrifice.

The present orders recommend that the freedmen remain with their former masters so long as
they are kindly treated. This, as a temporary policy, is the best that could be adopted, but
I very much doubt its propriety as a permanent policy. It will tend to rebuild the fallen fortunes
of the slaveholders, and re-establish the old system of class legislation, thus throwing the
political power of the country back into the hands of this class, who love slavery and hate
freedom and republican government. It would, in my opinion, be much wiser to diffuse this free
labor among the laboring people of the country, who can sympathize with the laborer, and treat
him with humanity.

I would suggest that great care be taken in the selection of officers of the bureau to be sent
to the various counties. The revolution of the whole system of labor has been so sudden and
radical as to require great caution and prudence on the part of the officers charged with the
care of the freedmen. They should be able to discuss the question of free labor as a matter
of political economy, and by reason and good arguments induce the employers to give the system
a fair and honest trial.

Nowhere that I have been do the people generally realise the fact that the negro is free. The
day I arrived at Jackson en route for Canton, both the newspapers at that place published leading
editorials, taking the ground that the emancipation proclamation was unconstitutional, and
therefore void; that whilst the negro who entered the army might be free, yet those who availed
themselves not of the proclamation were still slaves, and that it was a question for the State
whether or not to adopt a system of gradual emancipation. These seem to be the views of the
people generally, and they expressed great desire "to get rid of these garrisons," when they
hope "to have things their own way." And should the care and protection of the nation be taken
away from the freedmen, these people will have their own way, and will practically re-establish
slavery, more grinding and despotic than of old.

Respectfully submitted:

J.L. HAYNES, Colonel First Texas Cavalry.

Captain B.F. MOREY, Assistant Adjutant General.

Official:

STUART ELDRIDGE, Lieutenant and Acting Assistant Adjutant General.

Colonel Haynes was born and raised near Yazoo City, Mississippi. He owns a plantation, and
owned negroes before the war. He left the State in 1862, and went to New Orleans, where he
received a commission to raise a regiment of Texas troops.

SAMUEL THOMAS, Colonel.

No. 24.

RAILROAD, Camp near Clinton, Miss., July 8, 1865.

Sir: I am induced by the suffering I daily see and hear of among colored people to address
you this communication. I am located with my command four miles west of Clinton, Hines county,
on the railroad. A great many colored people, on their way to and from Vicksburg and other
distant points, pass by my camp. As a rule, they are hungry, naked, foot-sore, and heartless,
aliens in their native land, homeless, and friendless. They are wandering up and down the country,
rapidly becoming vagabonds and thieves from both necessity and inclination. Their late owners,
I am led to believe, have entered into a tacit arrangement to refuse labor, food or drink,
in all cases, to those who have been soldiers, as well as to those who have belonged to plantations
within the State; in the latter case, often ordering them back peremptorily to their "masters."

One planter said in my hearing lately, "These niggers will all be slaves again in twelve months.
You have nothing but Lincoln proclamations to make them free." Another said, "No white labor
shall ever reclaim my cotton fields." Another said, "Emigration has been the curse of the country;
it must be prevented here. This soil must be held by its present owners and their descendants."
Another said, "The constitutional amendment, if successful, will be carried before the Supreme
Court before its execution can be certain, and we hope much from that court!"

These expressions I have listened to at different times, and only repeat them here in order
that I may make the point clear that there is already a secret rebel, anti-emigration, pro-slavery
party formed or forming in this State, whose present policy appears to be to labor assiduously
for a restoration of the old system of slavery, or a system of apprenticeship, or some manner
of involuntary servitude, on the plea of recompense for loss of slaves on the one hand, and,
on the other, to counterbalance the influence of Yankee schools and the labor-hiring system
as much as possible by oppression and cruelty. I hear that negroes are frequently driven from
plantations where they either belong, or have hired, on slight provocation, and are as frequently
offered violence on applying for employment. Dogs are sometimes set upon them when they approach
houses for water. Others have been met, on the highway by white men they never saw before,
and beaten with clubs and canes, without offering either provocation or resistance. I see negroes
almost every day, of both sexes, and almost all ages, who have subsisted for many hours on
berries, often wandering they know not where, begging for food, drink, and employment.

It is impossible for me or any officer I have the pleasure of an acquaintance with to afford
these people relief. Neither can I advise them, for I am not aware that any provisions have
been, or are to be made to reach such cases. The evil is not decreasing, but, on the contrary,
as the season advances, is increasing.

I have heretofore entertained the opinion that the negroes flocked into the cities from all
parts of the country; but a few weeks' experience at this station has changed my views on the
subject, and I am now led to believe that those who have done so comprise comparatively a very
small part of the whole, and are almost entirely composed of those belonging to plantations
adjoining the towns. However, those who did go to the cities have been well cared for in comparison
with those who have remained in the country. A small proportion of the latter class are well
situated, either as necessary house-servants, body-servants, or favorites by inclination, as
mistresses, or by necessity or duty, as each master may have been induced to regard long and
faithful service or ties of consanguinity. Throughout the entire country, from Vicksburg to
the capital of the State, there is but little corn growing. The manner of cultivating is very
primitive, and the yield will be exceedingly small. I estimate that in this country fully one-half
of the white population, and a greater proportion of the colored people, will be necessitated
either to emigrate, buy food, beg it, or starve. The negro has no means to buy, and begging
will not avail him anything. He will then be compelled to emigrate, which, in his case, is
usually equivalent to turning vagabond, or, induced by his necessities, resort to organized
banding to steal, rob, and plunder. I am at a loss to know why the government has not adopted
some system for the immediate relief and protection of this oppressed and suffering people,
whose late social changes have conduced so much to their present unhappy condition, and made
every officer in the United States army an agent to carry out its provisions. Were I employed
to do so, I should seize the largest rebel plantation in this and every other county in the
State, partition it in lots of suitable size for the support of a family--say ten acres each--erect
mills and cotton gins, encourage them to build houses and cultivate the soil, give them warrants
for the land, issue rations to the truly needy, loan them seed, stock, and farming utensils
for a year or two, and trust the result to "Yankee schools" and the industry of a then truly
free and proverbially happy people. Some other system might be better; few could be more simple
in the execution, and in my opinion better calculated to "save a race" now floating about in
a contentious sea without hope or haven.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

H.R. BRINKERHOFF, Lieutenant Colonel 52d U.S. Colored Infantry, Commanding Detachment.

No. 25.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE, Jackson, August 18, 1865.

Sir: Your order No. 16, disbanding police guard for Claiborne county, has been laid before
me. I apprehend you are laboring under a mistake in regard to the character of this organization.
I had express authority from the President himself to organize the militia if I thought it
necessary to keep order in the country. This I did not do, but authorized the organization
of patrol guards or county police, for the purpose of suppressing crime, and for arresting
offenders. This organization is therefore part of the civil organization of the State, as much
so as sheriff, constable, and justices of the peace, and I claim the right to use this organization
for these purposes, and hope you will revoke your order.

Your obedient servant,

W.L. SHARKEY, Provisional Governor of Mississippi.

Colonel YORK.

Official copy:

J. WARREN MILLER, Assistant Adjutant General.

HEADQUARTERS POST OF PORT GIBSON,

Port Gibson, Mississippi, August 26, 1865.

General: I have the honor to state that my reasons for issuing the enclosed order, (No. 16,)
was, that a party of citizens acting under authority from Captain Jack, 9th Indiana cavalry,
and having as their chief C.B. Clark, was by their own acknowledgment in the habit of patrolling
the roads in this section of the country, and ordering any one they came across to halt. If
this was not promptly done, they were ordered to fire upon them. In this way one negro woman
was wounded, and Union men and negroes were afraid to be out of their houses after dark. The
company was formed out of what they called picked men, i.e., those only who had been actively
engaged in the war, and were known to be strong disunionists.

Hoping, general, to receive instructions as to the manner in which I shall regulate my action,

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

P. JONES YORK, Lieutenant Colonel Commanding Post.

Provost Major General DAVIDSON, Commanding Southern District of Mississippi.

Official copy:

J. WARREN MILLER, Assistant Adjutant General.

The permission given from these headquarters, dated July 3, 1865, by Captain Jack, provost
marshal, is hereby revoked.

C.B. Clark, chief of police, under the permission, will notify the parties forming the said
patrol to discontinue the practice of patrolling the roads and country armed. All arrests must
be made by the proper military or civil authorities.

P. JONES YORK, Lieutenant Colonel Commanding Post.

Official copy:

J. WARREN MILLER, Assistant Adjutant General.

No. 26.

BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN, AND ABANDONED LANDS,

OFFICE ACTING ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER FOR WESTERN DIST. OF MISS.,

Vicksburg, Miss., September 28, 1865.

Colonel: I beg leave to call your attention to some of the difficulties we are still obliged
to contend with, and some of the abuses still inflicted upon the freedmen, resulting from the
prejudices which are still far from being eradicated. In the immediate vicinity of our military
posts, and in locations that can readily be reached by the officers of this bureau, the citizens
are wary of abusing the blacks; they are so because this bureau has arrested and punished people
committing such offences; and the manner in which such cases have been dealt with has shown
people that abuse and imposition will not be tolerated, and that such offences are sure to
be punished in accordance with the enormity of the crime. But in remote localities, those that
cannot well be reached by officers of the bureau, the blacks are as badly treated as ever;
colored people often report themselves to the sub-commissioners with bruised heads and lacerated
backs, and ask for redress, protection, to be permitted to live at their former homes, and
some assurance that they will not be treated in a like manner again if they return. But nothing
can be done if their homes happen to be twenty or thirty miles from any office that will protect
them. A great many have thus learned that there is no protection for them, and quietly submit
to anything that may be required of them, or, as is more frequently the case, they leave such
places and crowd about the places where they can be protected.

A girl about twelve years of age, certainly too young to commit any serious offence, lies in
No. 1 hospital now with her back perfectly raw, the results of a paddling administered by her
former owner. Any number of such cases could easily be cited. There is not a justice of the
peace or any other civil officer in the district, eight (8) counties, of which I have charge,
that will listen to a complaint from a negro; and in the city, since the adjudication of these
cases has been turned over to the mayor, the abuse of and impositions upon negroes are increasing
very visibly, for the reason that very little, if any, attention is paid to any complaint of
a negro against a white person. Negro testimony is admitted, but, judging from some of the
decisions, it would seem that it carries very little weight. In several cases black witnesses
have been refused on the ground that the testimony on the opposite side, white, could not be
controverted, and it was useless to bring in black witnesses against it. I enclose an affidavit
taken on one such case. In the mayor's court, cases in which it is practicable to impose a
fine and thereby replenish the city treasury, are taken up invariably, but cases where the
parties have no money are very apt to pass unnoticed. One more point, and a serious one, too,
for the colored people, is, that in the collection of debts, and a great many of a similar
class of cases that are not taken cognizance of in the mayor's court, they have to go through
a regular civil process, necessitating the feeing of lawyers, &c., which is quite a burden
on a people whose means are limited. These cases have all formerly been handled by an officer
of this bureau, and without any expense to the parties for fees, &c.

The prejudices of the citizens are very strong against the negro; he is considered to be deserving
of the same treatment a mule gets, in many cases not as kind, as it is unprofitable to kill
or maim a mule, but the breaking of the neck of the free negro is nobody's loss; and unless
there is some means for meting out justice to these people that is surer and more impartial
than these civil justice's courts, run by men whose minds are prejudiced and bitter against
the negro, I would recommend, as an act of humanity, that the negroes be made slaves again.

I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J.H. WEBER, Captain and Acting Ass't. Com'r. Freedmen's Bureau for Western Dist. Miss.

Colonel SAMUEL THOMAS, Ass't. Com'r. Bureau Freedmen, &c., Vicksburg, Miss.

No. 27.

OFFICE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN, AND ABANDONED LANDS FOR STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,

Vicksburg, Mississippi, September 28, 1865.

Dear Sir: In accordance with your request, I write the following letter, containing some of
my views on the subject to which you called my attention--a subject worthy of great consideration,
because a bad policy adopted now with reference to the administration of justice and the establishment
of courts in the south may lead to evils that will be irreparable in the future.

You are aware that some time ago General Swayne, commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau for
Alabama, constituted the civil officers of the provisional government of that State commissioners
of the bureau for hearing and deciding all cases in which freedmen were parties, provided no
invidious distinctions in receiving testimony, punishment, &c., were made between blacks and
whites. Governor Parsons, of Alabama, approved of the arrangement, and urged the State officials
to comply with the condition, and thus do away with the necessity for military courts in connexion
with freedmen affairs. I have no doubt I could have induced the governor of Mississippi to
take the same action had I thought it the policy of the government. I was under the impression
that General Swayne had made a mistake, and that he would defeat the very objects for which
the bureau was laboring. I thought the citizens were not to be trusted with freedmen affairs
until they had given some strong evidence that they were prepared to accept the great change
in the condition of the freedmen. I had not the least idea that such a limited control as General
Swayne now has would accomplish what the authorities desired. The protection he gives freedmen
under his order is so limited, and will fall so far short of what the freedmen have a right
to expect, that I did not think of bringing the matter before the government. Late orders and
instructions from the President convince me that I was mistaken, and that the trial is to be made.

I have issued an order in accordance with these instructions, which I append:

[General Orders No. 8.]

BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN, AND ABANDONED LANDS, Office Ass't. Commissioner for State of Miss.,
Vicksburg, Miss., September 20, 1865.

The following extracts from Circular No. 5, current series, Bureau Refugees, Freedmen, and
Abandoned Lands, and General Orders No. 10, current series, headquarters department of Mississippi,
in reference to the same, are hereby republished for the guidance of officers of this bureau:

["Circular No. 5.]

"WAR DEPARTMENT,

"Bureau Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, Washington, May 30, 1865.

"RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ASSISTANT COMMISSIONERS.

"VII. In all places where there is an interruption of civil law, or in which local courts,
by reason of old codes, in violation of the freedom guaranteed by the proclamation of the President
and laws of Congress, disregard the negro's right to justice before the laws, in not allowing
him to give testimony, the control of all subjects relating to refugees and freedmen being
committed to this bureau, the assistant commissioners will adjudicate, either themselves or
through officers of their appointment, all difficulties arising between negroes and whites
or Indians, except those in military service, so far as recognizable by military authority,
and not taken cognizance of by the other tribunals, civil or military, of the United States.

"O.O. HOWARD, Major General, Commissioner Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, &c.

"Approved June 2, 1865.

"ANDREW JOHNSON, "President of the United States."

["General Orders No. 10.]

"HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF MISSISSIPPI,

"Vicksburg, Mississippi, August 3, 1865.

"VII. This order, (Circular No. 5, paragraph VII, Bureau Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned
Lands,) however, must not be so construed as to give the colored man immunities not accorded
to other persons. If he is charged with the violation of any law of the State, or an ordinance
of any city, for which offence the same penalty is imposed upon white persons as upon black,
and if courts grant to him the same privileges as are accorded to white men, no interference
on the part of the military authorities will be permitted. Several instances have recently
been reported in which military officers, claiming to act under the authority of the order
above mentioned, have taken from the custody of the civil authorities negroes arrested for
theft and other misdemeanors, even in cases where the courts were willing to concede to them
the same privileges as are granted to white persons. These officers have not been governed
by the spirit of the order. The object of the government is not to screen this class from just
punishment--not to encourage in them the idea that they can be guilty of crime and escape its
penalties, but simply to secure to them the rights of freemen, holding them, at the same time,
subject to the same laws by which other classes are governed.

In accordance with this order, where the judicial officers and magistrates of the provisional
government of this State will take for their mode of procedure the laws now in force in this
State, except so far as those laws make a distinction on account of color, and allow the negroes
the same rights and privileges as are accorded to white men before their courts, officers of
this bureau will not interfere with such tribunals, but give them every assistance possible
in the discharge of their duties.

In cities or counties where mayors, judicial officers, and magistrates will assume the duties
of the administration of justice to the freedmen, in accordance with paragraph VII, Circular
No. 5, issued from the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, and approved by the
President, and will signify their willingness to comply with this request by a written acceptance
addressed to the assistant commissioner for the State, no freedmen courts will be established,
and those that may now be in existence in such localities will be closed.

It is expected that the officers of this bureau will heartily co-operate with the State officials
in establishing law and order, end that all conflict of authority and jurisdiction will be avoided.

By order of Colonel Samuel Thomas, assistant commissioner Freedmen's Bureau for State of Mississippi.

STUART ELDRIDGE, Lieutenant, Acting Assistant Adjutant General.

I have written to Governor Sharkey, and explained to him how this order can be put in force
in this State, and will do all I can to secure its success, and to aid the civil authorities
to discharge their duties. I presume the legislature of this State, which is to meet in October,
will take up this matter immediately, and arrange some plan by which the State authorities
can take complete charge of freedmen affairs, and relieve the officers of this bureau. There
is a jealousy of United States officers existing among the State officials that makes it disagreeable
to perform any duty which is liable to conflict with their authority.

When General Howard's Circular No. 5 was issued, I thought it was the intention that military
courts should be established for the purpose of taking the administration of justice among
the freedmen out of the hands of their old masters, and placing it under the control of their
friends for a short time--until the citizens of the south were reconciled to the change, and
until their feeling of hatred for their former slaves had abated; that a complete restoration
of rights, privileges, and property was to come after a period of probation, in which they
should give some evidence of their changed feelings. I have thought much on this subject, have
watched the development of feeling among the southern people, and am satisfied that the time
for such a restoration has not yet arrived.

The order of General Swayne and the proclamation of General Parsons are unexceptionable in
form. If justice to the freedmen can be secured by the means indicated in these documents,
and if the process be not too expensive, and if ruinous delays be not allowed, then, it may
be, all this movement will be good. But it seems to me that so delicate a matter cannot be
smoothly managed in the present temper of Mississippi.

I am aware that it is the policy of the government; that we must trust these people some time;
that the establishment of the Freedman's Bureau is (as soon as martial law is withdrawn) a
violation of the spirit both of the State and federal constitutions; that the officers of the
bureau have no interest in common with the white citizens of the State, and that the bureau
is an immense expense to the general government, which should be abolished as soon as compatible
with the public interest.

Yet, I feel that we are in honor bound to secure to the helpless people we have liberated a
"republican form of government," and that we betray our trust when we hand these freed people
over to their old masters to be persecuted and forced to live and work according to their peculiar
southern ideas. It seems to me that we are forgetting the helpless and poor in our desire to
assist our subjugated enemies, and that we are more desirous of showing ourselves to be a great
and magnanimous nation than of protecting the people who have assisted us by arms, and who
turned the scale of battle in our favor. We certainly commit a wrong, if, while restoring these
communities to all their former privileges as States, we sacrifice one jot or tittle of the
rights and liberties of the freedmen.

The mayor of this city has had complete charge of all municipal affairs since the issue of
General Slocum's Order 10, (quoted in the order I have before given.) He has been compelled
to admit negro testimony by the provisions of that order. In cases that come before him, when
it is necessary to admit it he goes through the form of receiving it, but I have yet to hear
of one instance where such evidence affected his decision. The testimony of one white man outweighs
(practically) that of any dozen freedmen.

The admission of negro testimony will never secure the freedmen justice before the courts of
this State as long as that testimony is considered valueless by the judges and juries who hear
it. It is of no consequence what the law may be if the majority be not inclined to have it
executed. A negro might bring a suit before a magistrate and have colored witnesses examined
in his behalf, according to provisions of general orders and United States law, and yet the
prejudices of the community render it impossible for him to procure justice. The judge would
claim the right to decide whether the testimony was credible, and among the neighbors that
would surround him, in many places, he would be bold, indeed, if he believed the sworn evidence
of a negro when confronted by the simple assertion or opposed even to the interest of a white
man. I recently heard a circle of Mississippians conversing on this subject. Their conclusion
was, that they would make no objection to the admission of negro testimony, because "no southern
man would believe a nigger if he had the dammed impudence to testify contrary to the statement
of a white man." I verily believe that in many places a colored man would refuse, from fear
of death, to make a complaint against a white man before a State tribunal if there were no
efficient military protection at hand.

Wherever I go--the street, the shop, the house, the hotel, or the steamboat--I hear the people
talk in such a way as to indicate that they are yet unable to conceive of the negro as possessing
any rights at all. Men who are honorable in their dealings with their white neighbors will
cheat a negro without feeling a single twinge of their honor. To kill a negro they do not deem
murder; to debauch a negro woman they do not think fornication; to take the property away from
a negro they do not consider robbery. The people boast that when they get freedmen affairs
in their own hands, to use their own classic expression, "the niggers will catch hell."

The reason of all this is simple and manifest.

Justice from tribunals made up among such people is impossible. Here and there is a fair and
just man. One in a hundred, perhaps, sees the good policy of justice; but these are so few
that they will not, at present, guide public sentiment. Other States may, in this matter, be
in advance of Mississippi; I suspect they are. If justice is possible, I feel sure they are.

I fear such tribunals would be very expensive for the poor freedmen. Fees are heavy in this
State. Unless they can get justice inexpensively, we might as well deny them all remedy before
courts at once. Indeed, I think that would be rather more merciful than the arrangement proposed,
as they would then trust nobody, and would be less defrauded. Long delays in the course of
procedure would be ruinous to most of them. How could a freedman appeal a suit for wages, or
respond adequately to an appeal, when he is starving for want of the very wages which are withheld
from him?

It may be claimed that officers of the bureau can watch such cases and see that justice is
done the freedman. I say they cannot do it. Political power is against him, and will destroy
any officer who fearlessly does his duty in this way. He will be charged with interference
with the civil authority, with violating some constitution or some code; his acts will be so
twisted and contorted before they reach Washington, that he will get nothing for his pains
but censure and dismissal.

I can say without fear of contradiction, that there has not occurred one instance of interference
with civil authorities on the part of military officers in this State, unless they saw first
that every law of justice was violated to such an extent as to arouse the indignation of any
man born in a country where human beings have an equal right to justice before the tribunals
of the land. Yet, if I am not mistaken, there is a growing impression, supported by this same
political power in the south, that the officers in this State are tyrannical, meddlesome, and
disposed to thwart the faithful efforts of the noble white people to reorganize the State.

Many delegations of the citizens of this State have visited Washington for the purpose of getting
their property returned, or of obtaining some other favor. They, in order to accomplish their
desire, represent the feeling of their friends at home as very cordially disposed toward the
United States government, and say that they all acquiesce in the freedom of the negroes. A
little examination into the condition of affairs in this State will show that this is not the
case, and that what the people do is only done in order that they may be restored to power
so as to change the direction in which affairs are tending. I am afraid the profuse loyalty
of the delegations to Washington is being taken as the sentiment of the masses, and is directing
legislation and policy.

It is idle to talk about these people working out this negro problem. People who will not admit
that it is best, or even right, to educate the freedmen, are not the proper persons to be intrusted
with the administration of justice to them. I have no hesitation in saying, that if the question
of educating the colored people were to-day submitted to the whites of this State, they would
vote against it in a body. Nine-tenths of the educated and refined class, who are supposed
to have higher and nobler feelings, would vote against it.

I have been called on by persons of this class, and asked to suppress the religious meetings
among the colored people because they made so much noise! When I remonstrate with them and
talk of religious freedom, and of the right of all to worship God in the manner most suited
to their convictions of right, these gentlemen hold up their hands in horror at the idea. What
would magistrates selected from these people do in reference to such complaints? Suppress the
meeting, of course.

A similar and much stronger prejudice exists against the establishment of schools for the negro's
benefit. If federal bayonets were to-day removed from our midst, not a colored school would
be permitted in the State. The teachers, perhaps, would not be tarred and feathered and hung,
as they would have been in old times, but ways and means innumerable would present themselves
by which to drive them out.

The white citizens both of Vicksburg and Natchez have requested me not to establish freedmen
schools inside their city limits, yet over one-half the population of these cities is composed
of freed people--the class who are doing the work, toiling all day in the sun, while the white
employers are reaping the benefit of their labor through superior knowledge, and are occupying
their elegant leisure by talking and writing constantly about the demoralization of negro labor--that
the negro won't work, &c.

It is nonsense to talk so much about plans for getting the negroes to work. They do now and
always have done, all the physical labor of the south, and if treated as they should be by
their government, (which is so anxious to be magnanimous to the white people of this country,
who never did work and never will,) they will continue to do so. Who are the workmen in these
fields? Who are hauling the cotton to market, driving hacks and drays in the cities, repairing
streets and railroads, cutting timber, and in every place raising the hum of industry? The
freedmen, not the rebel soldiery. The southern white men, true to their instincts and training,
are going to Mexico or Brazil, or talk of importing labor in the shape of Coolies, Irishmen--anything--anything
to avoid work, any way to keep from putting their own shoulders to the wheel.

The mass of the freedmen can and will support themselves by labor. They need nothing but justice
before the courts of the land, impartial judges and juries, to encourage them in well-doing,
or punish them for the violation of just laws, a chance to own the land and property they can
honestly obtain, the free exercise of their right to worship God and educate themselves, and--let
them alone.

The delegates to Washington think that it is their duty, peculiarly, to see the President and
arrange the affairs of the negro. Why don't they attend to their own business, or make arrangements
for the working of the disbanded rebel army in the cotton fields and workshops of the south?
There are to-day as many houseless, homeless, poor, wandering, idle white men here as there
are negroes in the same condition, yet no arrangements are made for their working. All the
trickery, chicanery and political power possible are being brought to bear on the poor negro,
to make him do the hard labor for the whites, as in days of old.

To this end the mass of the people are instinctively working. They steadily refuse to sell
or lease lands to black men. Colored mechanics of this city, who have made several thousand
dollars during the last two years, find it impossible to buy even land enough to put up a house
on, yet white men can purchase any amount of land. The whites know that if negroes are not
allowed to acquire property or become landholders, they must ultimately return to plantation
labor, and work for wages that will barely support themselves and families, and they feel that
this kind of slavery will be better than none at all.

People who will do these things, after such a war, and so much misery, while federal bayonets
are yet around them, are not to be intrusted with the education and development of a, race
of slaves just liberated.

I have made this letter longer than it should have been, and may have taxed your patience,
yet I do not see how I could have said less, and expressed my views on the subject.

I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

SAMUEL THOMAS, Colonel, Assistant Commissioner B.R.F. and A.L. for Mississippi and N.E. Louisiana.

General CARL SCHURZ.

No. 28.

Mobile, Alabama, September 9, 1865.

Colonel George D. Robinson, 97th United States colored troops, states as follows:

I was sent out to Connecuh, Covington, Coffee, Dale, and Henry counties, to administer the
amnesty oath. I was at Covington myself, having officers under my orders stationed in the other
four counties. I travelled through Connecuh and Covington; about the other counties I have
reports from my officers.

In none of the above-named counties I heard of a justice of the peace or other magistrate discharging
the duties of an agent of the Freedmen's Bureau, nor did I hear of any of them willing to do
so. I deem it necessary that some officers be sent out there to attend to the interests of
the freedmen, in order to avoid the trouble and confusion which is almost certain to ensue
unless the matter is attended to and regulated.

I returned from Covington yesterday, September 8.

GEO. D. ROBINSON, Colonel 97th United States Infantry.

No. 29.

MEMORANDUM OF A CONVERSATION BETWEEN WILLIAM KING, ESQ., OF SAVANNAH, AND CARL SCHURZ.

Savannah, July 31, 1865.

Question by Mr. Schurz. What are the ideas of the people in this State as to the future organization
of your labor system?

Answer. It is generally conceded that slavery is dead, but it is believed that the negro will
not work unless compelled to. Money is no inducement that will incite him to work. He works
for comfort, that is, he wants to gain something and then enjoy it immediately afterwards.
He has no idea of the binding force of a contract, and it is questionable whether he ever will
have.

Question. So you consider the contract system, as it is now introduced here and there, a failure.

Answer. In a number of cases that I know of it is a failure. The negroes are not doing the
work they have contracted for. I know other cases in which they have remained with their former
masters, work well, and produce fair crops.

Question. In what manner, then, can, in your opinion, the free-labor system be made to work here?

Answer. The negro must be kept in a state of tutelage, like a minor. For instance, he may be
permitted to freely choose the master for whom he wants to work; he may bind himself for a
year, and, for all practical purposes, the master must act as his guardian.

Question. You think, then, something more is necessary than a mere contract system by which
the negro is only held to fulfil his contract?

Answer. Yes. The negro ought to be held in the position of a ward.

Question. Do you not think the negro ought to be educated, and do you believe the people of
this State would tax themselves for the purpose of establishing a general system of education?

Answer. I think it would be well to have the negro educated, but I do not think the people
of this State would tax themselves for such a purpose. The people are too poor and have too
many other things to take care of. We have to look for that to the people of the North. The
North having freed the negroes, ought to see to it that they be elevated. Besides, the poor
whites are not in favor of general education at all. They are themselves very ignorant, and
look upon education as something dangerous. For them we must have a system of compulsory education,
or we cannot get them to send their children to school. A good many of the Hardshell Baptists
among them look upon school-teachers as the emissaries of the devil.

Question. How far do you think the people of this State would be prepared to grant the negro
equality before the law? Would they, for instance, give him the right to testify in courts
of justice against white men?

Answer. I think not. It is generally believed that the negro has no idea of the sanctity of
an oath.

Question. Do you not think such disabilities would place the negro under such disadvantage
in the race of life as to deprive him of a fair chance?

Answer. This is the dilemma, in my opinion: either we admit the negro's testimony in courts
of justice, and then our highest interests are placed at the mercy of a class of people who
cannot be relied on when testifying under oath; or we deny the negro that right, and then he
will not be in a position to properly defend his own interests, and will be a downtrodden,
miserable creature.

Question. Do you not think vagrancy laws and police regulations might be enacted, equally applicable
to whites and blacks, which might obviate most of the difficulties you suggest as arising from
the unwillingness of the negro to work?

Answer. Perhaps they might; but the whites would not agree to that. The poor whites hate and
are jealous of the negro, and the politicians will try and please the whites so as to get their
votes.

Question. Do you think it would be advisable to withdraw our military forces from the State
if the civil government be restored at an early date?

Answer. It would not be safe. The mere presence of garrisons will prevent much mischief. The
presence of the military is also necessary to maintain the peace between the whites and blacks,
and it will be necessary until their relations are settled upon a permanent and satisfactory basis.

This memorandum was read by me to Mr. King and approved by him as a correct reproduction of
the views he had expressed.

C. SCHURZ.

No. 30.

What the planter wants before he embarks his capital and time in the attempt to cultivate another
crop.--Suggestions submitted by a committee at a meeting of planters, November 24, 1864.

First.--Above all, he wants an undoubted guarantee that the labor and teams, corn and hay,
with which he begins the cultivation of another crop shall be secured to him for at least twelve
months. From past experience, we know that, to be reliable, this guarantee must come from the
government at Washington.

Second.--Some mode of compelling laborers to perform ten (10) hours of faithful labor in each
twenty-four hours, (Sundays excepted,) and strict obedience of all orders. This may be partially
attained by a graduated system of fines, deduction of time or wages, deduction of rations of
all kinds in proportion to time lost, rigidly enforced. But in obstinate cases it can only
be done by corporal punishments, such as are inflicted in the army and navy of the United States.
In light cases of disobedience of orders and non-performance of duty the employer should impose
fines, &c. The corporal punishment should be inflicted by officers appointed by the superintendent
of "colored labor," who might, from time to time, visit each plantation in a parish, and ascertain
whether the laborer was satisfied with his treatment, and whether he performed his part of
the contract, and thus the officer would qualify himself by his own information to correct
any abuse that might exist, and award equal justice to each party. The plan of sending off
refractory laborers to work on government plantations is worse than useless. A planter always
plants as much land as he believes he has labor to cultivate efficiently, neither more nor
less. If less, a portion of his laborers are idle a part of their time; if more, his crops
must suffer from the want of proper cultivation. If the laborers do not work faithfully, and
their work is not judiciously directed, either from want of skill on the part of him who directs
the labor, or from the refusal or failure of the laborers from any cause to do the work as
it ought to be done, the crops must suffer. If, then, a portion of labor necessary to cultivate
a certain amount of land is abstracted by sending it to work anywhere else, the crop must fail
in proportion to the amount of labor abstracted. It must therefore be apparent to all that
the amount of prompt, faithful, and well-directed labor, necessary to cultivate a given quantity
of land efficiently, must be available at all times, when the cultivator deems it necessary,
or the crops must necessarily, to a greater or less extent, prove a failure.

Third.--The rate of wages should be fixed--above which no one should be allowed to go. There
should be at least four classes of hands, both male and female. If the laborer should be furnished,
as this year, 1864, with clothing, shoes, rations, houses, wood, medicine, &c., the planter
cannot afford to pay any more wages than this year, and to some hands not so much. Wages should
not be paid oftener than once a quarter. As long as a negro has a dime in his pocket he will
go every Saturday to some store or town. Besides, if the men have money once a month they are
constantly corrupting the women, who will not work because they expect to get money of the
men. If the laborers are to pay for all their supplies, some think higher wages could be paid;
but it would be necessary to require the negro to supply himself with at least two suits of
clothes, one pair of shoes, a hat, and four pounds of pork or bacon, one peck of corn meal
a week, vegetables at least twice a week, for a first-class hand. The laborer should pay for
his medicine, medical attendance, nursing, &c.; also, house rent, $5 a month, water included;
wood at $2 a cord in the tree, or $4 a cord cut and delivered. Instead of money, each employer
should be required to pay once a week in tickets issued and signed by himself or agent, not
transferable to any one off the premises of him who issues them, redeemable by the issuer quarterly
in current funds, and to be received by him in the purchase of goods, provisions, &c., which
he sold at current prices.

Fourth.--A law to punish most severely any one who endeavors, by offering higher wages, gifts,
perquisites, &c., &c., to induce a negro to leave his employer before the expiration of the
term for which he has engaged to labor without the consent of said employer.

Fifth.--Wages to be quarterly. One-half to be retained to the end of the year, unless it is
found that more than half is required to maintain a man and his family.

Sixth.--Lost time to be deducted from wages daily; fines to be charged daily; rations, of all
kinds, to be docked in proportion to the time lost during the week, if rations are to be supplied.

Seventh.--Fines to be imposed for disobedience of any orders.

Eighth.--During sugar-making the laborer should be required to work at night as well as during
the day. For night-work he might be allowed double wages for the time he works.

Ninth.--The negroes should not be allowed to go from one plantation to another without the
written permit of their employer, nor should they be allowed to go to any town or store without
written permission.

Tenth.--That the laborers should be required to have their meals cooked in a common kitchen
by the plantation cooks, as heretofore. At present each family cook for themselves. If there
be twenty-five houses on a plantation worked by one hundred hands, there are lighted, three
times every day, winter and summer, for the purpose of cooking, twenty-five (25) fires, instead
of one or two, which are quite as many as are necessary. To attend these twenty-five fires
there must be twenty-five cooks. The extravagance in wood and the loss of time by this mode
must be apparent to all. Making the negroes pay for the wood they burn, and for fencing lumber
of any kind, would have a tendency to stop this extravagant mode of doing business. They should
also be fined heavily or suffer some kind of corporal punishment for burning staves, hoop-poles,
shingles, plank, spokes, &c., which they now constantly do.

Eleventh.--None but regularly ordained ministers should be allowed to preach. At present on
every plantation there are a number of preachers. Frequent meetings are held at night, continuing
from 7 or 8 p.m. until 1 or 2 o'clock a.m. The day after one of these long meetings many of
the laborers are unfit to labor; neither are the morals of the negroes improved by these late
meetings, nor the health. The night meetings should break up at 10 p.m., and there should be
but one a week on a plantation. Some of the preachers privately promulgate the most immoral
doctrines.

Twelfth.--A police guard or patrol should be established under the control of the superintendent
of free labor, whose duty it shall be, under their officers, to enforce the rules and regulations
that the superintendent of free labor may think best to adopt for the government of the laborers
and their families on plantations and in private families.

Thirteenth.--The laborers are at present extremely careless of the teams, carts, wagons, gear,
tools, and material of all kinds put in their possession, and should therefore be held accountable
for the same. Parents should be held liable for things stolen or destroyed by their children
not over twelve years of age.

Fourteenth.--Foremen should be fined whenever they fail to report any of the laborers under
them who disobey orders of any kind. The foreman at the stable should be required especially
to report neglect or ill treatment of teams by their drivers, and he should be held liable
for all tools and halters, &c., put in the stable.

Fifteenth.--The unauthorized purchase of clothing or other property by laborers, or others
domesticated on plantations, should be severely punished, and so should the sale by laborers
or others domesticated on plantations of plantation products without a written permission be
punished by fine, imprisonment, and obstinate cases by corporal punishment. The sale or furnishing
of intoxicating liquor of any kind to laborers or others domesticated on plantations should
be severely punished.

Sixteenth.--The possession of arms or other dangerous weapons without authority should be punished
by fine or imprisonment and the arms forfeited.

Seventeenth.--No one, white or colored, with or without passes, should have authority to go
into a quarter without permission of the proprietor of said quarter. Should any insist upon
going in, or be found in a quarter without permission of the proprietor, he should be arrested
at once by the proprietor.

Eighteenth.--Fighting and quarrelling should be prohibited under severe penalties, especially
husbands whipping their wives.

Nineteenth.--Laborers and all other persons domesticated on plantations or elsewhere should
be required to be respectful in tone, manner, and language to their employers, and proprietors
of the plantations or places on which they reside, or be fined and imprisoned.

Twentieth.--The whole study, aim, and object of the negro laborer now is how to avoid work
and yet have a claim for wages, rations, clothes, &c.

No. 31.

OAK FOREST, NEAR TIGERVILLE STATION,

N.O. and O. Railroad, December 1, 1864.

Dear Sir: The earnest desire you have manifested to make the negro laborer under the new order
of things successful, makes me the more disposed to offer every assistance in my power to that
end. I have no prejudices to overcome; I would do the blacks all the good in my power consistently
with their welfare and the welfare of the country; I owe them no ill will, but I am well satisfied
that it will demand the highest skill and the largest experience combined to make the new system
work successfully, when hitherto all others, including our own two years' experience, have
signally failed. No namby-pamby measures will do. We may have more psalm singing, more night
preaching, greater excesses in the outward manifestation of religion, but depend upon it there
will be less true morality, less order, less truthfulness, less honest industry. It is not
the experiment of a few only, or of a day, but of an institution, if anything, for millions;
the mixing in industrial association of separate races hitherto distinct; of systems fundamentally
changed and not of mere individuals, and the man who does not rise to the height of the great
argument fails before he starts. It is not to listen to babblers, to professional philanthropists,
to quacks and demagogues: it demands a manly, masculine, vigorous exercise of executive power,
adapted to the circumstances of the case. Nobody is absolutely free, white or black. I have
been a slave all my life; you have been the same. We were subject to discipline from childhood,
and the negro as well, and must continue to be subject to wholesome restraints all of us.

It is well to consider that the measures of the government have rendered labor scarce. It would
be safe to say there is not half a supply; that every sort of inducement will be held out to
get labor away from present situations; that the inclination of all who are unincumbered is,
to get to the city and its neighborhood. Every planter has some already there, living most
unprofitably. I have half a dozen, some under the agreement of the present year. Concentration
is the order of the day, and none but those who can command the largest sum of money will be
able to carry on plantations with any hope of success. I take leave to add some suggestions,
believing you will receive them with the same friendly spirit in which they are offered. I
am still surrounded by my own servants, and would like to see the system so ordered that they
would still find it to their advantage to remain in their present comfortable homes.

Wages, rules, and regulations should be fixed and uniform: nothing left to discretion.

A penalty should be inflicted on every employer who deviates from the established rates, maximum
rates.

No field crops should be raised by hired laborers. The evils attending this are numerous and
insurmountable.

Wages should be extremely moderate on account of the unsteadiness of labor and exceeding uncertainty
of crops of all sorts, but especially of cane and cotton.

Cooking for hands should be confined absolutely to one kitchen, and a charge made for all wood
taken to their houses; a certain supply should be allowed, and no additional quantity permitted
at any price: otherwise no plantation can long stand the enormous, wasteful consumption of fuel.

All necessary expenditures for the blacks, old as well as young, should be borne by themselves.
White laborers are all liable to such charges, and why not wasteful and improvident blacks?
They should be early taught the value of what they consume as well as the other costs of living.

About keeping stock the rule should be absolute.

No travelling about, day or night, without a written sanction from the proper person. The violation
of this order by a commanding officer has brought the small-pox on my place and already eight
grown hands have died with it, and there are not less than twenty invalids besides: this is
one of the evils.

Medicine and professional attendance a charge to the patient, as well as all educational arrangements.

Every ploughman or woman, and teamster, to be obliged to feed and curry his or her team once
at least every day.

Payments beyond proper and prescribed supplies to be small, the smaller the better, and still
better if withheld till the crop is made and saved; but settlements by tickets should be made
weekly. (A share in the crop is the best for both parties.) I do not perceive the utility of
"home colonies;" they belong to the class of theories more than anything else. Families should
be kept together and at the "homes" to which they have been accustomed, if possible, and made
to support themselves, all who are able to do so. At present there are many who will not do
this because they are made a charge on the master or employer. Vagrants should be punished;
work is a necessity. But I only put down a few particulars to impress upon your mind as they
occur to me.

I know the difficult task you have undertaken. You have a giant to manage, and you will have
to exercise a giant's strength. You have no less than to revise the teachings of all past history.
You have to accomplish what has never been accomplished before. Neither in the east nor in
the west has the African been found to work voluntarily; but the experiment is to be tried
anew in this country, and I shall lend my assistance, whatever it is, to help on in the road
to success, if that be possible. I have tried it two years under the military without success,
or the prospect of it. If, however, I can in any way assist you to gain the meed of success,
both my own interest and my kind feelings towards you combine to prompt me to renewed efforts
in the cause.

I remain, very respectfully and truly, yours,

T. GIBSON.

Hon. B.F. FLANDERS.

P.S.--The great desideratum in obtaining labor from free blacks is its enforcement. How is
this to be done? Formerly the known authority possessed by the master over the slave, prevented
in a great degree the exercise of it. The knowledge now, on the part of the blacks, that the
military authority has forbidden any authority over them, increases the very necessity of the
power which is forbidden. This is palpable to any one who sees with an experienced eye for
a day. There can necessarily be no order, day or night, no fidelity, no morality, no industry.
It is so, speculate and theorize as we may. I wish it were different; it is a great pity to
witness these deplorable effects.

Disease is scattered broadcast; my own stock has been for some time consumed, except a few
milch cows. The sugar from the sugar-houses has been sold in quantities in every direction.
The cotton of one plantation has been sold to the extent of half the crop to a white man, and
only by the merest accident discovered in time to be detected. My neighbor's hogs have been
taken from the pen, killed and brought home for consumption; his cattle the same. These things
are within my knowledge by the merest accident, but there is absolutely no remedy, because
their testimony is as good, if not better than mine, and this they know perfectly well. In
a case of sugar-selling, I had the oath of a disinterested white man to the fact, and the black
and white man identified by the witness. When this witness was through with his testimony,
the negro man, the interested party, the accused himself, was called up by the provost marshal,
and of course he swore himself innocent, and so he was cleared. In the case of the cotton not
a negro can be brought to confess, notwithstanding the confession of the white man and the
surrender of the cotton. How, then, can good order, good morals and honest industry be maintained
when immunity from punishment is patent to their understandings?

I know no remedy adequate to the circumstances but an always present power to enforce law and
order, and this now requires the constant presence of the bayonet. Which is the best, a regular
military government, or the quiet, humane exercise of just so much authority as the case demands,
by the master, who has every motive, human and divine, to exercise humanity and protect his
slave from injustice and injury?

The past, or rather the present year, we had nothing but blank orders, and these are of no
avail whatever without enforcement; and this brings us back to the starting-point again, and
the bayonet again, and so it is to the end of the chapter. Moral suasion will not do for whites
who have had freedom as an inheritance, and education within their reach. How then can it be
expected that he who has been predestined by the Almighty to be a servant of servants all the
days of his life, shall be capable of at once rising to motives of human conduct higher than
those possessed by the white man?

All that my reason teaches and the experience I have had, and the history I have read, bring
me to the same conclusion: you must utterly fail unless you add the stimulus of corporal punishment
to the admonitions of the law; but as this would be somewhat inconsistent with the freedom
which our solons have decreed, I must only confess my inability to prescribe the orthodox remedies
according to the received dogmas from the inspired sources of knowledge at the north above
all the lessons I have learned heretofore, and entirely above everything I expect to learn
hereafter.

No. 32.

FREEDMEN'S BUREAU,

Shreveport, La., August 1, 1865.

Sir: At the date of my last monthly report, (July 2d,) the free-labor system in western Louisiana
was an experiment. No contracts between the planters and freedmen had then been entered into,
and the difficulties to be met with and overcome by the contracting parties were new to each.
The herculean task of removing the objections which the freedmen offered to signing a "contract,"
and of eradicating the prejudice existing among the planters against countenancing the employment
upon their plantations as free men of those whom they had so long and firmly held in bondage,
devolved upon the agents of the bureau.

The objection presented by the freedmen consisted chiefly in the fact that they had no confidence
whatever in the word of their "old masters." Said they, in substance, "We cannot trust the
power that has never accorded us any privileges. Our former oppressors show by their actions
that they would sooner retard than advance our prosperity." While in nine cases out of ten
the freedmen eagerly and readily acceded to fair terms for their labor when the matter was
explained by a government agent, exactly in the same ratio did they refuse to listen to any
proposition made by the planter alone.

Their readiness to comprehend their situation and to enter into an agreement to work when enlightened
by an agent of the bureau, or, in exceptional cases, when the planters sought in a kind and
philanthropic spirit to explain to them their relations to society and the government, is conclusive
proof that the disposition to be idle formed no part of the reason for their refusing to contract
with their former masters.

With these facts in view, it will be readily perceived that the only feasible mode of success
was to send agents into the country to visit every plantation. This was undertaken; but with
no funds to procure the services of assistants, and with the difficulty of obtaining the right
class of men for these positions from the army, the progress made has not been as rapid or
the work as effectual as it would have been under more favorable circumstances. Partial returns
have been received, as follows:

From Bienville parish        248 contracts.
 "   Bossier parish           14    "
 "   Caddo parish            172    "
 "   DeSoto parish           246    "
 "   Marion county, Texas    206    "
                             ---
Total received               886    "
                             ===

Returns are yet to be received from the parishes of Claiborne, Natchitoches, Winn and Sabine,
and from Harrison county, Texas. These will all be given in by the 15th inst., and I shall
then be able to determine the exact number employed upon each plantation and laboring under
the new system. Regarding the average number employed upon each plantation in the parish of
Caddo as a basis for an estimate, the returned rolls will foot up a list of 7,088 names, and
the whole number of freedmen contracted with during the month of July in the district under
my supervision will not probably exceed 20,000, or fall short of 15,000.

During the month a sufficient length of time has elapsed to render judgment to a certain extent
upon the workings of the new system. That it has not satisfied a majority of the planters is
a conclusion which, from their disposition at first, was evident would be arrived at. That
the freedmen have accepted the arrangements devised by the government for their protection
so readily and have worked so faithfully, is a matter for congratulation.

The planters at first expected that, though the power to "control" the persons of the laborers
had been torn from them by the stern requirements of war, the agents of the bureau would, through
the military, confine the negro to their plantations and compel him to labor for them. In this
way it was thought that the same regime as pursued in times of slavery could be kept up, and
it was this idea which prompted a planter, noted for his frankness, to remark "that the people
of the south desired the government to continue this supervision for a term of years." Finding
that their ideas of the policy of the government were erroneous, and that they could not exercise
this "controlling power" either directly or indirectly, and that the freedman was to be placed,
as nearly as the circumstances surrounding his situation would permit, upon the same grounds
as the white laborer, it is but a logical sequence that the planters should be disappointed
and dissatisfied with the work performed by the freedmen.

In this place it may be well to notice that the country is yet in a very unsettled condition.
After a four years' war which has sapped it of all its resources, and after a life-long servitude
for a hard taskmaster, the negro is liberated from bondage, and he finds the people of the
country in no condition to offer him the most advantageous terms for his services. This, with
the natural desire experienced by all mankind for a period of repose after that of incessant
and forced labor, is one of the causes which have contributed to render the freedmen negligent
and inconstant at their work.

Reports are constantly brought to this office by the negroes from the interior that freedmen
have been kidnapped and summarily disposed of. These obtain circulation and credence among
all classes, and, whether true or not, operate disadvantageously to the interests of both the
planters and the freedmen.

Again, the threat of shooting the laborers, so frequently made by the planters, is very unwise,
and usually has the effect of causing a general stampede from the plantation where the threat
was made. The fact that the body of a negro was seen hanging from a tree in Texas, near the
Louisiana line; and of the murder in cold blood, in the northern part of the parish of Caddo,
of Mary, a colored woman, by John Johnson, the son of the proprietor of the plantation where
the woman worked; and that instances have repeatedly occurred similar to a case presented at
my office, where an old man had received a blow over his head with a shillalah one inch in
diameter, which was so severe as to snap the stick asunder; and also the fracturing of the
skull and the breaking of the arm of a helpless, inoffensive colored woman by a vindictive
planter in the parish of Natchitoches; and the statement of one of my agents, who says that
"upon half the plantations the freedmen are not well clothed and their rations are scanty;"
and of another who has visited every plantation in ward No. --, parish of ----, who reports
at the close of the month as follows: "The freedmen in my ward are very poorly clothed and
fed, although no particular complaints have been made as yet;" should all be taken into consideration
in arriving at conclusions in regard to the disposition of the freedmen to work, and before
judgment is rendered upon the complaints of the major portion of the planters; and it is also
useless to disguise the fact that among the freedmen, as among all classes of people, there
are many ill-disposed as well as idle persons, and a few of these upon each plantation create
dissatisfaction among the others.

Notwithstanding the complaints of the planters and the above-named facts, the existence of
which would cause a disturbance among any class of laborers in the world, the majority of the
planters have been eager to contract with their former slaves, for the reason that after their
plantations had been visited by an agent of the government, and an agreement had been made
upon the prescribed forms, the freedmen worked better than before. This is a matter of significance,
and its bearing is readily seen. Having noticed the disapprobation of the larger portion of
the planting community, and the causes which led to their complaints, I desire to call your
attention in this connexion to the report of one of my most experienced agents. It is as follows:

"In all cases have the employees given satisfaction where their former masters are at all reasonable.
I would mention the case of Jacob Hoss as an example: he contracted with his former slaves
in the latter part of May for one-fourth of all his crops; they have been steady and industrious,
and have decidedly the finest cotton and corn in the district." Mr. Hoss has 200 acres of cotton,
400 of corn, and 8 of potatoes. Your attention is also solicited to the testimony of the liberal
few who have taken the amnesty oath with the intention to keep it. One says: "The freedmen
in my neighborhood are laboring well where they are well paid." Another, a large land proprietor,
states that "he could not ask his hands to work better." The same gentleman also states that
"he would not have the freedmen upon his plantation made slaves again if he could."

The testimony is concurrent that, where liberal wages are paid and the freedmen are kindly
treated, no difficulty is experienced with them, and that they labor honestly and industriously.
The complaints which have been presented at the office for consideration are very nearly in
a direct ratio of the two classes, but the wrongs of the freedmen are by far the most aggravated,
as they suffer in almost every conceivable way. It has been necessary to fine and assess damages
upon several planters for beating their laborers, and also to punish several freedmen for violating
their contracts and for other misdemeanors.

"July the 7, 1865. E.V. TULLY." This breaks down the last barrier to the enjoyment of liberty
by the freedmen in western Louisiana, and I feel highly gratified that it has been accomplished
without referring it to higher authorities, as our mail facilities are so irregular that at
least two months would have been consumed by the operation.

Upon the 10th of July the freedmen's hospital was opened for the reception of patients, and
enclosed please find a copy of the hospital report for July, marked 1. This is a necessary
as well as a charitable institution, as the city authorities have as yet taken no measures
to provide for the indigent sick.

