It was a fine feeling to have finished the History; there  ought to be a future state to reward
that grind!  It's not  literature, you know; only journalism, and pedantic  journalism.  I
had but the one desire, to get the thing as  right as might be, and avoid false concords -
even if that!   And it was more than there was time for.  However, there it  is: done.  And
if Samoa turns up again my book has to be  counted with, being the only narrative extant. 
Milton and I  - if you kindly excuse the juxtaposition - harnessed  ourselves to strange waggons,
and I at least will be found to  have plodded very soberly with my load.  There is not even
a  good sentence in it, but perhaps - I don't know - it may be  found an honest, clear volume.

WEDNESDAY.

Never got a word set down, and continues on Thursday 19th  May, his own marriage day as ever
was.  News; yes.  The C. J.  came up to call on us!  After five months' cessation on my  side,
and a decidedly painful interchange of letters, I could  not go down - could not - to see him.
My three ladies  received him, however; he was very agreeable as usual, but  refused wine,
beer, water, lemonade, chocolate and at last a  cigarette.  Then my wife asked him, 'So you
refuse to break  bread?' and he waved his hands amiably in answer.  All my  three ladies received
the same impression that he had serious  matters in his mind: now we hear he is quite cock-a-hoop
since the mail came, and going about as before his troubles  darkened.  But what did he want
with me?  'Tis thought he had  received a despatch - and that he misreads it (so we fully 
believe) to the effect that they are to have war ships at  command and can make their little
war after all.  If it be  so, and they do it, it will be the meanest wanton slaughter  of poor
men for the salaries of two white failures.  But what  was his errand with me? Perhaps to warn
me that unless I  behave he now hopes to be able to pack me off in the CURACOA  when she comes.

I have celebrated my holiday from SAMOA by a plunge at the  beginning of THE YOUNG CHEVALIER.
I am afraid my touch is a  little broad in a love story; I can't mean one thing and  write
another.  As for women, I am no more in any fear of  them; I can do a sort all right; age makes
me less afraid of  a petticoat, but I am a little in fear of grossness.   However, this David
Balfour's love affair, that's all right -  might be read out to a mothers' meeting - or a daughters'
meeting.  The difficulty in a love yarn, which dwells at all  on love, is the dwelling on one
string; it is manifold, I  grant, but the root fact is there unchanged, and the  sentiment
being very intense, and already very much handled  in letters, positively calls for a little
pawing and gracing.   With a writer of my prosaic literalness and pertinency of  point of view,
this all shoves toward grossness - positively  even towards the far more damnable CLOSENESS.
This has kept  me off the sentiment hitherto, and now I am to try: Lord!  Of  course Meredith
can do it, and so could Shakespeare; but with  all my romance, I am a realist and a prosaist,
and a most  fanatical lover of plain physical sensations plainly and  expressly rendered; hence
my perils.  To do love in the same  spirit as I did (for instance) D. Balfour's fatigue in
the  heather; my dear sir, there were grossness - ready made!  And  hence, how to sugar?  However,
I have nearly done with Marie- Madeleine, and am in good hopes of Marie-Salome, the real  heroine;
the other is only a prologuial heroine to introduce  the hero.

FRIDAY.

Anyway, the first prologuial episode is done, and Fanny likes  it.  There are only four characters;
Francis Blair of Balmile  (Jacobite Lord Gladsmuir) my hero; the Master of Ballantrae;  Paradon,
a wine-seller of Avignon; Marie-Madeleine his wife.   These two last I am now done with, and
I think they are  successful, and I hope I have Balmile on his feet; and the  style seems to
be found.  It is a little charged and violent;  sins on the side of violence; but I think will
carry the  tale.  I think it is a good idea so to introduce my hero,  being made love to by
an episodic woman.  This queer tale - I  mean queer for me - has taken a great hold upon me.
Where  the devil shall I go next?  This is simply the tale of a COUP  DE TETE of a young man
and a young woman; with a nearly,  perhaps a wholly, tragic sequel, which I desire to make
thinkable right through, and sensible; to make the reader, as  far as I shall be able, eat
and drink and breathe it.  Marie- Salome des Saintes-Maries is, I think, the heroine's name;
she has got to BE yet: SURSUM CORDA!  So has the young  Chevalier, whom I have not yet touched,
and who comes next in  order.  Characters: Balmile, or Lord Gladsmuir, COMME VOUS  VOULEZ;
Prince Charlie; Earl Marischal; Master of Ballantrae;  and a spy, and Dr. Archie Campbell,
and a few nondescripts;  then, of women, Marie-Salome and Flora Blair; seven at the  outside;
really four full lengths, and I suppose a half-dozen  episodic profiles.  How I must bore you
with these  ineptitudes!  Have patience.  I am going to bed; it is (of  all hours) eleven.
I have been forced in (since I began to  write to you) to blatter to Fanny on the subject of
my  heroine, there being two CRUCES as to her life and history:  how came she alone? and how
far did she go with the  Chevalier?  The second must answer itself when I get near  enough
to see.  The first is a back-breaker.  Yet I know  there are many reasons why a FILLE DE FAMINE,
romantic,  adventurous, ambitious, innocent of the world, might run from  her home in these
days; might she not have been threatened  with a convent? might there not be some Huguenot
business  mixed in?  Here am I, far from books; if you can help me with  a suggestion, I shall
say God bless you.  She has to be new  run away from a strict family, well-justified in her
own wild  but honest eyes, and meeting these three men, Charles Edward,  Marischal, and Balmile,
through the accident of a fire at an  inn.  She must not run from a marriage, I think; it would
bring her in the wrong frame of mind.  Once I can get her,  SOLA, on the highway, all were
well with my narrative.   Perpend.  And help if you can.

Lafaele, long (I hope) familiar to you, has this day received  the visit of his SON from Tonga;
and the SON proves to be a  very pretty, attractive young daughter!  I gave all the boys  kava
in honour of her arrival; along with a lean, side- whiskered Tongan, dimly supposed to be Lafaele's
step-father;  and they have been having a good time; in the end of my  verandah, I hear Simi,
my present incapable steward, talking  Tongan with the nondescript papa.  Simi, our out-door
boy,  burst a succession of blood-vessels over our work, and I had  to make a position for
the wreck of one of the noblest  figures of a man I ever saw.  I believe I may have mentioned
the other day how I had to put my horse to the trot, the  canter and (at last) the gallop to
run him down.  In a  photograph I hope to send you (perhaps with this) you will  see Simi standing
in the verandah in profile.  As a steward,  one of his chief points is to break crystal; he
is great on  fracture - what do I say? - explosion!  He cleans a glass,  and the shards scatter
like a comet's bowels.

N.B. - If I should by any chance be deported, the first of  the rules hung up for that occasion
is to communicate with  you by telegraph. - Mind, I do not fear it, but it IS  possible.

MONDAY 25TH.

We have had a devil of a morning of upset and bustle; the  bronze candlestick Faauma has returned
to the family, in time  to take her position of stepmamma, and it is pretty to see  how the
child is at once at home, and all her terrors ended.

27TH.  MAIL DAY.

And I don't know that I have much to report.  I may have to  leave for Malie as soon as these
mail packets are made up.   'Tis a necessity (if it be one) I rather deplore.  I think I  should
have liked to lazy; but I daresay all it means is the  delay of a day or so in harking back
to David Balfour; that  respectable youth chides at being left (where he is now) in  Glasgow
with the Lord Advocate, and after five years in the  British Linen, who shall blame him?  I
was all forenoon  yesterday down in Apia,' dictating, and Lloyd type-writing,  the conclusion
of SAMOA; and then at home correcting till the  dinner bell; and in the evening again till
eleven of the  clock.  This morning I have made up most of my packets, and I  think my mail
is all ready but two more, and the tag of this.   I would never deny (as D. B might say) that
I was rather  tired of it.

I fancy this gloomy ramble is caused by a twinge of age; I  put on an under-shirt yesterday
(it was the only one I could  find) that barely came under my trousers; and just below it,
a fine healthy rheumatism has now settled like a fire in my  hip.  From such small causes do
these valuable considerations  flow!

I shall now say adieu, dear Sir, having ten rugged miles  before me and the horrors of a native
feast and parliament  without an interpreter, for to-day I go alone.

Yours ever, R. L S.

CHAPTER XIX

SUNDAY, 29TH MAY.

HOW am I to overtake events?  On Wednesday, as soon as my  mail was finished, I had a wild
whirl to look forward to.   Immediately after dinner, Belle, Lloyd and I, set out on  horseback,
they to the club, I to Haggard's, thence to the  hotel where I had supper ready for them. 
All next day we  hung round Apia with our whole house-crowd in Sunday array,  hoping for the
mail steamer with a menagerie on board.  No  such luck; the ship delayed; and at last, about
three, I had  to send them home again, a failure of a day's pleasuring that  does not bear
to be discussed.  Lloyd was so sickened that he  returned the same night to Vailima, Belle
and I held on, sat  most of the evening on the hotel verandah stricken silly with  fatigue
and disappointment, and genuine sorrow for our poor  boys and girls, and got to bed with rather
dismal  appreciations of the morrow.

These were more than justified, and yet I never had a jollier  day than Friday 27th.  By 7.30
Belle and I had breakfast; we  had scarce done before my mother was at the door on  horseback,
and a boy at her heels to take her not very  dashing charger home again.  By 8.10 we were all
on the  landing pier, and it was 9.20 before we had got away in a  boat with two inches of
green wood on the keel of her, no  rudder, no mast, no sail, no boat flag, two defective  rowlocks,
two wretched apologies for oars, and two boys - one  a Tongan half-caste, one a white lad,
son of the Tonga  schoolmaster, and a sailor lad - to pull us.  All this was  our first taste
of the tender mercies of Taylor (the  sesquipidalian half-caste introduced two letters back,
I  believe).  We had scarce got round Mulinuu when Sale Taylor's  heart misgave him; he thought
we had missed the tide; called  a halt, and set off ashore to find canoes.  Two were found;
in one my mother and I were embarked with the two biscuit  tins (my present to the feast),
and the bag with our dry  clothes, on which my mother was perched - and her cap was on  the
top of it - feminine hearts please sympathise; all under  the guidance of Sale.  In the other
Belle and our guest;  Tauilo, a chief-woman, the mother of my cook, were to have  followed.
And the boys were to have been left with the boat.   But Tauilo refused.  And the four, Belle,
Tauilo, Frank the  sailor-boy, and Jimmie the Tongan half-caste, set off in the  boat across
that rapidly shoaling bay of the lagoon.

How long the next scene lasted, I could never tell.  Sale was  always trying to steal away
with our canoe and leave the  other four, probably for six hours, in an empty, leaky boat,
without so much as an orange or a cocoanut on board, and  under the direct rays of the sun.
I had at last to stop him  by taking the spare paddle off the out-rigger and sticking it  in
the ground - depth, perhaps two feet - width of the bay,  say three miles.  At last I bid him
land me and my mother and  go back for the other ladies.  'The coast is so rugged,' said  Sale.
- 'What?' I said, 'all these villages and no landing  place?' - 'Such is the nature of Samoans,'
said he.  Well,  I'll find a landing-place, I thought; and presently I said,  'Now we are going
to land there.' - 'We can but try,' said  the bland Sale, with resignation.  Never saw a better
landing-place in my life.  Here the boat joined us.  My  mother and Sale continued in the canoe
alone, and Belle and I  and Tauilo set off on foot for Malie.  Tauilo was about the  size of
both of us put together and a piece over; she used us  like a mouse with children.  I had started
barefoot; Belle  had soon to pull off her gala shoes and stockings; the mud  was as deep as
to our knees, and so slippery that (moving, as  we did, in Indian file, between dense scratching
tufts of  sensitive) Belle and I had to take hands to support each  other, and Tauilo was steadying
Belle from the rear.  You can  conceive we were got up to kill, Belle in an embroidered  white
dress and white hat, I in a suit of Bedford cords hot  from the Sydney tailors; and conceive
us, below, ink-black to  the knees with adhesive clay, and above, streaming with heat.   I
suppose it was better than three miles, but at last we made  the end of Malie.  I asked if
we could find no water to wash  our feet; and our nursemaid guided us to a pool.  We sat down
on the pool side, and our nursemaid washed our feet and legs  for us - ladies first, I suppose
out of a sudden respect to  the insane European fancies: such a luxury as you can scarce  imagine.
I felt a new man after it.  But before we got to  the King's house we were sadly muddied once
more.  It was 1  P.M. when we arrived, the canoe having beaten us by about  five minutes, so
we made fair time over our bog-holes.

But the war dances were over, and we came in time to see only  the tail end (some two hours)
of the food presentation.  In  Mataafa's house three chairs were set for us covered with  fine
mats.  Of course, a native house without the blinds down  is like a verandah.  All the green
in front was surrounded  with sheds, some of flapping canvas, some of green palm  boughs, where
(in three sides of a huge oblong) the natives  sat by villages in a fine glow of many-hued
array.  There  were folks in tapa, and folks in patchwork; there was every  colour of the rainbow
in a spot or a cluster; there were men  with their heads gilded with powdered sandal-wood,
others  with heads all purple, stuck full of the petals of a flower.   In the midst there was
a growing field of outspread food,  gradually covering acres; the gifts were brought in, now
by  chanting deputations, now by carriers in a file; they were  brandished aloft and declaimed
over, with polite sacramental  exaggerations, by the official receiver.  He, a stalwart,  well-oiled
quadragenarian, shone with sweat from his  exertions, brandishing cooked pigs.  At intervals,
from one  of the squatted villages, an orator would arise.  The field  was almost beyond the
reach of any human speaking voice; the  proceedings besides continued in the midst; yet it
was  possible to catch snatches of this elaborate and cut-and-dry  oratory - it was possible
for me, for instance, to catch the  description of my gift and myself as the ALII TUSITALA,
O LE  ALII O MALO TETELE - the chief White Information, the chief  of the great Governments.
Gay designation?  In the house, in  our three curule chairs, we sat and looked on.  On our
left a  little group of the family.  In front of us, at our feet, an  ancient Talking-man,
crowned with green leaves, his profile  almost exactly Dante's; Popo his name.  He had worshipped
idols in his youth; he had been full grown before the first  missionary came hither from Tahiti;
this makes him over  eighty.  Near by him sat his son and colleague.  In the group  on our
left, his little grandchild sat with her legs crossed  and her hands turned, the model already
(at some three years  old) of Samoan etiquette.  Still further off to our right,  Mataafa sat
on the ground through all the business; and still  I saw his lips moving, and the beads of
his rosary slip  stealthily through his hand.  We had kava, and the King's  drinking was hailed
by the Popos (father and son) with a  singular ululation, perfectly new to my ears; it means,
to  the expert, 'Long live Tuiatua'; to the inexpert, is a mere  voice of barbarous wolves.
We had dinner, retired a bit  behind the central pillar of the house; and, when the King  was
done eating, the ululation was repeated.  I had my eyes  on Mataafa's face, and I saw pride
and gratified ambition  spring to life there and be instantly sucked in again.  It  was the
first time, since the difference with Laupepa, that  Popo and his son had openly joined him,
and given him the due  cry as Tuiatua - one of the eight royal names of the islands,  as I
hope you will know before this reaches you.

Not long after we had dined, the food-bringing was over.  The  gifts (carefully noted and tallied
as they came in) were now  announced by a humorous orator, who convulsed the audience,  introducing
singing notes, now on the name of the article,  now on the number; six thousand odd heads of
taro, three  hundred and nineteen cooked pigs; and one thing that  particularly caught me (by
good luck), a single turtle 'for  the King' - LE TASI MO LE TUPU.  Then came one of the  strangest
sights I have yet witnessed.  The two most  important persons there (bar Mataafa) were Popo
and his son.   They rose, holding their long shod rods of talking men,  passed forth from the
house, broke into a strange dance, the  father capering with outstretched arms and rod, the
son  crouching and gambolling beside him in a manner  indescribable, and presently began to
extend the circle of  this dance among the acres of cooked food.  WHATEVER THEY  LEAPED OVER,
WHATEVER THEY CALLED FOR, BECAME THEIRS.  To see  mediaeval Dante thus demean himself struck
a kind of a chill  of incongruity into our Philistine souls; but even in a great  part of the
Samoan concourse, these antique and (I  understand) quite local manners awoke laughter.  One
of my  biscuit tins and a live calf were among the spoils he  claimed, but the large majority
of the cooked food (having  once proved his dignity) he re-presented to the King.

Then came the turn of LE ALII TUSITALA.  He would not dance,  but he was given - five live
hens, four gourds of oil, four  fine tapas, a hundred heads of taro, two cooked pigs, a  cooked
shark, two or three cocoanut branches strung with  kava, and the turtle, who soon after breathed
his last, I  believe, from sunstroke.  It was a royal present for 'the  chief of the great
powers.'  I should say the gifts were, on  the proper signal, dragged out of the field of food
by a  troop of young men, all with their lava-lavas kilted almost  into a loin-cloth.  The
art is to swoop on the food-field,  pick up with unerring swiftness the right things and  quantities,
swoop forth again on the open, and separate,  leaving the gifts in a new pile: so you may see
a covey of  birds in a corn-field.  This reminds me of a very inhumane  but beautiful passage
I had forgotten in its place.  The  gift-giving was still in full swing, when there came a
troop  of some ninety men all in tafa lava-lavas of a purplish  colour; they paused, and of
a sudden there went up from them  high into the air a flight of live chickens, which, as they
came down again, were sent again into the air, for perhaps a  minute, from the midst of a singular
turmoil of flying arms  and shouting voices; I assure you, it was very beautiful to  see, but
how many chickens were killed?

No sooner was my food set out than I was to be going.  I had  a little serious talk with Mataafa
on the floor, and we went  down to the boat, where we got our food aboard, such a cargo  -
like the Swiss Family Robinson, we said.  However, a squall  began, Tauilo refused to let us
go, and we came back to the  house for half-an-hour or so, when my ladies distinguished  themselves
by walking through a Fono (council), my mother  actually taking up a position between Mataafa
and Popo!  It  was about five when we started - turtle, pigs, taro, etc., my  mother, Belle,
myself, Tauilo, a portly friend of hers with  the voice of an angel, and a pronunciation so
delicate and  true that you could follow Samoan as she sang, and the two  tired boys Frank
and Jimmie, with the two bad oars and the  two slippery rowlocks to impel the whole.  Sale
Taylor took  the canoe and a strong Samoan to paddle him.  Presently after  he went inshore,
and passed us a little after, with his arms  folded, and TWO strong Samoans impelling him Apia-ward.
This  was too much for Belle, who hailed, taunted him, and made him  return to the boat with
one of the Samoans, setting Jimmie  instead in the canoe.  Then began our torment, Sale and
the  Samoan took the oars, sat on the same thwart (where they  could get no swing on the boat
had they tried), and  deliberately ladled at the lagoon.  We lay enchanted.  Night  fell; there
was a light visible on shore; it did not move.   The two women sang, Belle joining them in
the hymns she has  learned at family worship.  Then a squall came up; we sat a  while in roaring
midnight under rivers of rain, and, when it  blew by, there was the light again, immovable.
A second  squall followed, one of the worst I was ever out in; we could  scarce catch our breath
in the cold, dashing deluge.  When it  went, we were so cold that the water in the bottom of
the  boat (which I was then baling) seemed like a warm footbath in  comparison, and Belle and
I, who were still barefoot, were  quite restored by laving in it.

All this time I had kept my temper, and refrained as far as  might be from any interference,
for I saw (in our friend's  mulish humour) he always contrived to twist it to our  disadvantage.
But now came the acute point.  Young Frank now  took an oar.  He was a little fellow, near
as frail as  myself, and very short; if he weighed nine stone, it was the  outside; but his
blood was up.  He took stroke, moved the big  Samoan forward to bow, and set to work to pull
him round in  fine style.  Instantly a kind of race competition - almost  race hatred - sprang
up.  We jeered the Samoan.  Sale  declared it was the trim of the boat: 'if this lady was aft'
(Tauilo's portly friend) 'he would row round Frank.'  We  insisted on her coming aft, and Frank
still rowed round the  Samoan.  When the Samoan caught a crab (the thing was  continual with
these wretched oars and rowlocks), we shouted  and jeered; when Frank caught one, Sale and
the Samoan jeered  and yelled.  But anyway the boat moved, and presently we got  up with Mulinuu,
where I finally lost my temper, when I found  that Sale proposed to go ashore and make a visit
- in fact,  we all three did.  It is not worth while going into, but I  must give you one snatch
of the subsequent conversation as we  pulled round Apia bay.  'This Samoan,' said Sale, 'received
seven German bullets in the field of Fangalii.'  'I am  delighted to hear it,' said Belle.
'His brother was killed  there,' pursued Sale; and Belle, prompt as an echo, 'Then  there are
no more of the family? how delightful!'  Sale was  sufficiently surprised to change the subject;
he began to  praise Frank's rowing with insufferable condescension: 'But  it is after all not
to be wondered at,' said he, 'because he  has been for some time a sailor.  My good man, is
it three or  five years that you have been to sea?'  And Frank, in a  defiant shout: 'Two!'
Whereupon, so high did the ill-feeling  run, that we three clapped and applauded and shouted,
so that  the President (whose house we were then passing) doubtless  started at the sounds.
It was nine when we got to the hotel;  at first no food was to be found, but we skirmished
up some  bread and cheese and beer and brandy; and (having changed our  wet clothes for the
rather less wet in our bags) supped on  the verandah.

SATURDAY 28TH.  I was wakened about 6.30, long past my usual  hour, by a benevolent passer-by.
My turtle lay on the  verandah at my door, and the man woke me to tell me it was  dead, as
it had been when we put it on board the day before.   All morning I ran the gauntlet of men
and women coming up to  me: 'Mr. Stevenson, your turtle is dead.'  I gave half of it  to the
hotel keeper, so that his cook should cut it up; and  we got a damaged shell, and two splendid
meals, beefsteak one  day and soup the next.  The horses came for us about 9.30.   It was waterspouting;
we were drenched before we got out of  the town; the road was a fine going Highland trout stream;
it  thundered deep and frequent, and my mother's horse would not  better on a walk.  At last
she took pity on us, and very  nobly proposed that Belle and I should ride ahead.  We were
mighty glad to do so, for we were cold.  Presently, I said I  should ride back for my mother,
but it thundered again, Belle  is afraid of thunder, and I decided to see her through the 
forest before I returned for my other hen - I may say, my  other wet hen.  About the middle
of the wood, where it is  roughest and steepest, we met three pack-horses with barrels  of
lime-juice.  I piloted Belle past these - it is not very  easy in such a road - and then passed
them again myself, to  pilot my mother.  This effected, it began to thunder again,  so I rode
on hard after Belle.  When I caught up with her,  she was singing Samoan hymns to support her
terrors!  We were  all back, changed, and at table by lunch time, 11 A.M.  Nor  have any of
us been the worse for it sinsyne.  That is pretty  good for a woman of my mother's age and
an invalid of my  standing; above all, as Tauilo was laid up with a bad cold,  probably increased
by rage.

FRIDAY, 3RD JUNE.

On Wednesday the club could not be held, and I must ride down  town and to and fro all afternoon
delivering messages, then  dined and rode up by the young moon.  I had plenty news when  I
got back; there is great talk in town of my deportation: it  is thought they have written home
to Downing Street  requesting my removal, which leaves me not much alarmed; what  I do rather
expect is that H. J. Moors and I may be haled up  before the C. J. to stand a trial for LESE-Majesty.
Well,  we'll try and live it through.

The rest of my history since Monday has been unadulterated  DAVID BALFOUR.  In season and out
of season, night and day,  David and his innocent harem - let me be just, he never has  more
than the two - are on my mind.  Think of David Balfour  with a pair of fair ladies - very nice
ones too - hanging  round him.  I really believe David is as a good character as  anybody has
a right to ask for in a novel.  I have finished  drafting Chapter XX. to-day, and feel it all
ready to froth  when the spigot is turned.

O I forgot - and do forget.  What did I mean?  A waft of  cloud has fallen on my mind, and
I will write no more.

WEDNESDAY, I BELIEVE, 8TH JUNE.

Lots of David, and lots of David, and the devil any other  news.  Yesterday we were startled
by great guns firing a  salute, and to-day Whitmee (missionary) rode up to lunch, and  we learned
it was the CURACOA come in, the ship (according to  rumour) in which I was to be deported.
I went down to meet  my fate, and the captain is to dine with me Saturday, so I  guess I am
not going this voyage.  Even with the  particularity with which I write to you, how much of
my life  goes unexpressed; my troubles with a madman by the name of -,  a genuine living lunatic,
I believe, and jolly dangerous; my  troubles about poor -, all these have dropped out; yet
for  moments they were very instant, and one of them is always  present with me.

I have finished copying Chapter XXI. of David - 'SOLUS CUM  SOLA; we travel together.'  Chapter
XXII., 'SOLUS CUM SOLA;  we keep house together,' is already drafted.  To the end of  XXI.
makes more than 150 pages of my manuscript - damn this  hair - and I only designed the book
to run to about 200; but  when you introduce the female sect, a book does run away with  you.
I am very curious to see what you will think of my two  girls.  My own opinion is quite clear;
I am in love with  both.  I foresee a few pleasant years of spiritual  flirtations.  The creator
(if I may name myself, for the sake  of argument, by such a name) is essentially unfaithful.
For  the duration of the two chapters in which I dealt with Miss  Grant, I totally forgot my
heroine, and even - but this is a  flat secret - tried to win away David.  I think I must try
some day to marry Miss Grant.  I'm blest if I don't think  I've got that hair out! which seems
triumph enough; so I  conclude.

TUESDAY.

Your infinitesimal correspondence has reached me, and I have  the honour to refer to it with
scorn.  It contains only one  statement of conceivable interest, that your health is  better;
the rest is null, and so far as disquisitory unsound.   I am all right, but David Balfour is
ailing; this came from  my visit to the man-of-war, where I had a cup of tea, and the  most
of that night walked the verandah with extraordinary  convictions of guilt and ruin, many of
which (but not all)  proved to have fled with the day, taking David along with  them; he R.I.P.
in Chapter XXII.

On Saturday I went down to the town, and fetched up Captain  Gibson to dinner; Sunday I was
all day at Samoa, and had a  pile of visitors.  Yesterday got my mail, including your  despicable
sheet; was fooled with a visit from the high chief  Asi, went down at 4 P.M. to my Samoan lesson
from Whitmee - I  think I shall learn from him, he does not fool me with  cockshot rules that
are demolished next day, but professes  ignorance like a man; the truth is, the grammar has
still to  be expiscated - dined with Haggard, and got home about nine.

WEDNESDAY.

The excellent Clarke up here almost all day yesterday, a man  I esteem and like to the soles
of his boots; I prefer him to  anyone in Samoa, and to most people in the world; a real good
missionary, with the inestimable advantage of having grown up  a layman.  Pity they all can't
get that!  It recalls my old  proposal, which delighted Lady Taylor so much, that every  divinity
student should be thirty years old at least before  he was admitted.  Boys switched out of
college into a pulpit,  what chance have they?  That any should do well amazes me,  and the
most are just what was to be expected.

SATURDAY.

I must tell you of our feast.  It was long promised to the  boys, and came off yesterday in
one of their new houses.  My  good Simele arrived from Savaii that morning asking for  political
advice; then we had Tauilo; Elena's father, a  talking man of Tauilo's family; Talolo's cousin;
and a boy of  Simele's family, who attended on his dignity; then Metu, the  meat-man - you
have never heard of him, but he is a great  person in our household - brought a lady and a
boy - and  there was another infant - eight guests in all.  And we sat  down thirty strong.
You should have seen our procession,  going (about two o'clock), all in our best clothes, to
the  hall of feasting!  All in our Sunday's best.  The new house  had been hurriedly finished;
the rafters decorated with  flowers; the floor spread, native style, with green leaves;  we
had given a big porker, twenty-five pounds of fresh beef,  a tin of biscuit, cocoanuts, etc.
Our places were all  arranged with much care; the native ladies of the house  facing our party;
the sides filled up by the men; the guests,  please observe: the two chief people, male and
female, were  placed with our family, the rest between S. and the native  ladies.  After the
feast was over, we had kava, and the  calling of the kava was a very elaborate affair, and
I  thought had like to have made Simele very angry; he is really  a considerable chief, but
he and Tauilo were not called till  after all our family, AND THE GUESTS, I suppose the principle
being that he was still regarded as one of the household.  I  forgot to say that our black
boy did not turn up when the  feast was ready.  Off went the two cooks, found him,  decorated
him with huge red hibiscus flowers - he was in a  very dirty under shirt - brought him back
between them like a  reluctant maid, and, thrust him into a place between Faauma  and Elena,
where he was petted and ministered to.  When his  turn came in the kava drinking - and you
may be sure, in  their contemptuous, affectionate kindness for him, as for a  good dog, it
came rather earlier than it ought - he was cried  under a new name.  ALEKI is what they make
of his own name  Arrick; but instead of 

{ the cup of } {'le ipu o     }

Aleki!' it was called 'le ipu o VAILIMA' and it was explained  that he had 'taken his chief-name'!
a jest at which the  plantation still laughs.  Kava done, I made a little speech,  Henry translating.
If I had been well, I should have alluded  to all, but I was scarce able to sit up; so only
alluded to  my guest of all this month, the Tongan, Tomas, and to Simele,  partly for the jest
of making him translate compliments to  himself.  The talking man replied with many handsome
compliments to me, in the usual flood of Samoan fluent  neatness; and we left them to an afternoon
of singing and  dancing.  Must stop now, as my right hand is very bad again.   I am trying
to write with my left.

SUNDAY.

About half-past eight last night, I had gone to my own room,  Fanny and Lloyd were in Fanny's,
every one else in bed, only  two boys on the premises - the two little brown boys Mitaiele
(Michael), age I suppose 11 or 12, and the new steward, a  Wallis islander, speaking no English
and about fifty words of  Samoan, recently promoted from the bush work, and a most  good, anxious,
timid lad of 15 or 16 - looks like 17 or 18,  of course - they grow fast here.  In comes Mitaiele
to Lloyd,  and told some rigmarole about Paatalise (the steward's name)  wanting to go and
see his family in the bush. - 'But he has  no family in the bush,' said Lloyd.  'No,' said
Mitaiele.   They went to the boy's bed (they sleep in the walled-in  compartment of the verandah,
once my dressing-room) and  called at once for me.  He lay like one asleep, talking in  drowsy
tones but without excitement, and at times 'cheeping'  like a frightened mouse; he was quite
cool to the touch, and  his pulse not fast; his breathing seemed wholly ventral; the  bust
still, the belly moving strongly.  Presently he got from  his bed, and ran for the door, with
his head down not three  feet from the floor and his body all on a stretch forward,  like a
striking snake: I say 'ran,' but this strange movement  was not swift.  Lloyd and I mastered
him and got him back in  bed.  Soon there was another and more desperate attempt to  escape,
in which Lloyd had his ring broken.  Then we bound  him to the bed humanely with sheets, ropes,
boards and  pillows.  He lay there and sometimes talked, sometimes  whispered, sometimes wept
like an angry child; his principal  word was 'Faamolemole' - 'Please' - and he kept telling
us at  intervals that his family were calling him.  During this  interval, by the special grace
of God, my boys came home; we  had already called in Arrick, the black boy; now we had that
Hercules, Lafaele, and a man Savea, who comes from  Paatalise's own island and can alone communicate
with him  freely.  Lloyd went to bed, I took the first watch, and sat  in my room reading,
while Lafaele and Arrick watched the  madman.  Suddenly Arrick called me; I ran into the verandah;
there was Paatalise free of all his bonds and Lafaele holding  him.  To tell what followed
is impossible.  We were five  people at him - Lafaele and Savea, very strong men, Lloyd, I
and Arrick, and the struggle lasted until 1 A.M. before we  had him bound.  One detail for
a specimen: Lloyd and I had  charge of one leg, we were both sitting on it, and lo! we  were
both tossed into the air - I, I daresay, a couple of  feet.  At last we had him spread-eagled
to the iron bedstead,  by his wrists and ankles, with matted rope; a most inhumane  business,
but what could we do? it was all we could do to  manage it even so.  The strength of the paroxysms
had been  steadily increasing, and we trembled for the next.  And now I  come to pure Rider
Haggard.  Lafaele announced that the boy  was very bad, and he would get 'some medicine' which
was a  family secret of his own.  Some leaves were brought  mysteriously in; chewed, placed
on the boy's eyes, dropped in  his ears (see Hamlet) and stuck up his nostrils; as he did 
this, the weird doctor partly smothered the patient with his  hand; and by about 2 A.M. he
was in a deep sleep, and from  that time he showed no symptom of dementia whatever.  The  medicine
(says Lafaele) is principally used for the wholesale  slaughter of families; he himself feared
last night that his  dose was fatal; only one other person, on this island, knows  the secret;
and she, Lafaele darkly whispers, has abused it.   This remarkable tree we must try to identify.

The man-of-war doctor came up to-day, gave us a strait- waistcoat, taught us to bandage, examined
the boy and saw he  was apparently well - he insisted on doing his work all  morning, poor
lad, and when he first came down kissed all the  family at breakfast!  The Doctor was greatly
excited, as may  be supposed, about Lafaele's medicine.

TUESDAY.

All yesterday writing my mail by the hand of Belle, to save  my wrist.  This is a great invention,
to which I shall stick,  if it can be managed.  We had some alarm about Paatalise, but  he
slept well all night for a benediction.  This lunatic  asylum exercise has no attractions for
any of us.

I don't know if I remembered to say how much pleased I was  with ACROSS THE PLAINS in every
way, inside and out, and you  and me.  The critics seem to taste it, too, as well as could
be hoped, and I believe it will continue to bring me in a few  shillings a year for a while.
But such books pay only  indirectly.

To understand the full horror of the mad scene, and how well  my boys behaved, remember that
THEY BELIEVED P.'S RAVINGS,  they KNEW that his dead family, thirty strong, crowded the  front
verandah and called on him to come to the other world.   They KNEW that his dead brother had
met him that afternoon in  the bush and struck him on both temples.  And remember! we  are
fighting the dead, and they had to go out again in the  black night, which is the dead man's
empire.  Yet last  evening, when I thought P. was going to repeat the  performance, I sent
down for Lafaele, who had leave of  absence, and he and his wife came up about eight o'clock
with  a lighted brand.  These are the things for which I have to  forgive my old cattle-man
his manifold shortcomings; they are  heroic - so are the shortcomings, to be sure.

About my coming to Europe, I get more and more doubtful, and  rather incline to Ceylon again
as place of meeting.  I am so  absurdly well here in the tropics, that it seems like  affectation.
Yet remember I have never once stood Sydney.   Anyway, I shall have the money for it all ahead,
before I  think of such a thing.

We had a bowl of Punch on your birthday, which my incredible  mother somehow knew and remembered.
Think how  beautiful it would be not to have to mind the critics, and  not even the darkest
of the crowd - Sidney Colvin.  I should  probably amuse myself with works that would make your
hair  curl, if you had any left.

R. L S.

CHAPTER XX

SATURDAY, 2ND JULY 1892.

THE character of my handwriting is explained, alas! by  scrivener's cramp.  This also explains
how long I have let  the paper lie plain.

WEDNESDAY, 6TH.

I have no account to give of my stewardship these days, and  there's a day more to account
for than mere arithmetic would  tell you.  For we have had two Monday Fourths, to bring us
at  last on the right side of the meridian, having hitherto been  an exception in the world
and kept our private date.   Business has filled my hours sans intermission.

TUESDAY, 12TH

I am doing no work and my mind is in abeyance.  Fanny and  Belle are sewing-machining in the
next room; I have been  pulling down their hair, and Fanny has been kicking me, and  now I
am driven out.  Austin I have been chasing about the  verandah; now he has gone to his lessons,
and I make believe  to write to you in despair.  But there is nothing in my mind;  I swim in
mere vacancy, my head is like a rotten nut; I shall  soon have to begin to work again or I
shall carry away some  part of the machinery.  I have got your insufficient letter,  for which
I scorn to thank you.  I have had no review by  Gosse, none by Birrell; another time if I have
a letter in  the TIMES, you might send me the text as well; also please  send me a cricket
bat and a cake, and when I come home for  the holidays, I should like to have a pony.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,

JACOB TONSON.

P.S.  I am quite well; I hope you are quite well.  The world  is too much with us, and my mother
bids me bind my hair and  lace my bodice blue.

CHAPTER XXI

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is Friday night, the (I believe) 18th  or 20th August or September.
I shall probably regret to- morrow having written you with my own hand like the Apostle  Paul.
But I am alone over here in the workman's house, where  I and Belle and Lloyd and Austin are
pigging; the rest are at  cards in the main residence.  I have not joined them because  'belly
belong me' has been kicking up, and I have just taken  15 drops of laudanum.

On Tuesday, the party set out - self in white cap, velvet  coat, cords and yellow half boots,
Belle in a white kind of  suit and white cap to match mine, Lloyd in white clothes and  long
yellow boots and a straw hat, Graham in khakis and  gaiters, Henry (my old overseer) in blue
coat and black kilt,  and the great Lafaele with a big ship-bag on his saddle-bow.   We left
the mail at the  P. O., had lunch at the hotel, and  about 1.50 set out westward to the place
of tryst.  This was  by a little shrunken brook in a deep channel of mud on the  far side of
which, in a thicket of low trees, all full of  moths of shadow and butterflies of sun, we lay
down to await  her ladyship.  Whiskey and water, then a sketch of the  encampment for which
we all posed to Belle, passed off the  time until 3.30.  Then I could hold on no longer.  30
minutes  late.  Had the secret oozed out?  Were they arrested?  I got  my horse, crossed the
brook again, and rode hard back to the  Vaea cross roads, whence I was aware of white clothes
glancing in the other long straight radius of the quadrant.   I turned at once to return to
the place of tryst; but D.  overtook me, and almost bore me down, shouting 'Ride, ride!'  like
a hero in a ballad.  Lady Margaret and he were only come  to shew the place; they returned,
and the rest of our party,  reinforced by Captain Leigh and Lady Jersey, set on for  Malie.
The delay was due to D.'s infinite precautions,  leading them up lanes, by back ways, and then
down again to  the beach road a hundred yards further on.

It was agreed that Lady Jersey existed no more; she was now  my cousin Amelia Balfour.  That
relative and I headed the  march; she is a charming woman, all of us like her extremely  after
trial on this somewhat rude and absurd excursion.  And  we Amelia'd or Miss Balfour'd her with
great but intermittent  fidelity.  When we came to the last village, I sent Henry on  ahead
to warn the King of our approach and amend his  discretion, if that might be.  As he left I
heard the  villagers asking WHICH WAS THE GREAT LADY?  And a little  further, at the borders
of Malie itself, we found the guard  making a music of bugles and conches.  Then I knew the
game  was up and the secret out.  A considerable guard of honour,  mostly children, accompanied
us; but, for our good fortune,  we had been looked for earlier, and the crowd was gone.

Dinner at the King's; he asked me to say grace, I could think  of none - never could; Graham
suggested BENEDICTUS BENEDICAT,  at which I leaped.  We were nearly done, when old Popo  inflicted
the Atua howl (of which you have heard already)  right at Lady Jersey's shoulder.  She started
in fine style.  - 'There,' I said, 'we have been giving you a chapter of  Scott, but this goes
beyond the Waverley Novels.'  After  dinner, kava.  Lady J. was served before me, and the King
DRANK LAST; it was the least formal kava I ever saw in that  house, - no names called, no show
of ceremony.  All my ladies  are well trained, and when Belle drained her bowl, the King  was
pleased to clap his hands.  Then he and I must retire for  our private interview, to another
house.  He gave me his own  staff and made me pass before him; and in the interview,  which
was long and delicate, he twice called me AFIOGA.  Ah,  that leaves you cold, but I am Samoan
enough to have been  moved.  SUSUGA is my accepted rank; to be called AFIOGA -  Heavens! what
an advance - and it leaves Europe cold.  But it  staggered my Henry.  The first time it was
complicated 'lana  susuga MA lana afioga - his excellency AND his majesty' - the  next time
plain Majesty.  Henry then begged to interrupt the  interview and tell who he was - he is a
small family chief in  Sawaii, not very small - 'I do not wish the King,' says he,  'to think
me a boy from Apia.'  On our return to the palace,  we separated.  I had asked for the ladies
to sleep alone -  that was understood; but that Tusitala - his afioga Tusitala  - should go
out with the other young men, and not sleep with  the highborn females of his family - was
a doctrine received  with difficulty.  Lloyd and I had one screen, Graham and  Leigh another,
and we slept well.

In the morning I was first abroad before dawn; not very long,  already there was a stir of
birds.  A little after, I heard  singing from the King's chapel - exceeding good - and went
across in the hour when the east is yellow and the morning  bank is breaking up, to hear it
nearer.  All about the  chapel, the guards were posted, and all saluted Tusitala.  I  could
not refrain from smiling: 'So there is a place too,' I  thought, 'where sentinels salute me.'
Mine has been a queer  life.

[Drawing in book reproduced here in characters...]

            y2
            X   X  X 
        H              X
    G                    X
  F                       X
 E                The      X
D       i         Kava     X
A                          X
 B                       X
  C                    X
     T               X
          X     X
             W

Breakfast was rather a protracted business.  And that was  scarce over when we were called
to the great house (now  finished - recall your earlier letters) to see a royal kava.   This
function is of rare use; I know grown Samoans who have  never witnessed it.  It is, besides,
as you are to hear, a  piece of prehistoric history, crystallised in figures, and  the facts
largely forgotten; an acted hieroglyph.  The house  is really splendid; in the rafters in the
midst, two carved  and coloured model birds are posted; the only thing of the  sort I have
ever remarked in Samoa, the Samoans being literal  observers of the second commandment.  At
one side of the egg  our party sat. a=Mataafa, b=Lady J., c=Belle, d=Tusitala,  e=Graham, f=Lloyd,
g=Captain Leigh, h=Henry, i=Popo.  The x's  round are the high chiefs, each man in his historical
position.  One side of the house is set apart for the King  alone; we were allowed there as
his guests and Henry as our  interpreter.  It was a huge trial to the lad, when a speech  was
made to me which he must translate, and I made a speech  in answer which he had to orate, full-breathed,
to that big  circle; he blushed through his dark skin, but looked and  acted like a gentleman
and a young fellow of sense; then the  kava came to the King; he poured one drop in libation,
drank  another, and flung the remainder outside the house behind  him.  Next came the turn
of the old shapeless stone marked T.   It stands for one of the King's titles, Tamasoalii;
Mataafa  is Tamasoalii this day, but cannot drink for it; and the  stone must first be washed
with water, and then have the bowl  emptied on it.  Then - the order I cannot recall - came
the  turn of y and z, two orators of the name of Malietoa; the  first took his kava down plain,
like an ordinary man; the  second must be packed to bed under a big sheet of tapa, and  be
massaged by anxious assistants and rise on his elbow  groaning to drink his cup.  W., a great
hereditary war man,  came next; five times the cup-bearers marched up and down the  house and
passed the cup on, five times it was filled and the  General's name and titles heralded at
the bowl, and five  times he refused it (after examination) as too small.  It is  said this
commemorates a time when Malietoa at the head of  his army suffered much for want of supplies.
Then this same  military gentleman must DRINK five cups, one from each of the  great names:
all which took a precious long time.  He acted  very well, haughtily and in a society tone
OUTLINING THE  part.  The difference was marked when he subsequently made a  speech in his
own character as a plain God-fearing chief.  A  few more high chiefs, then Tusitala; one more,
and then Lady  Jersey; one more, and then Captain Leigh, and so on with the  rest of our party
- Henry of course excepted.  You see in  public, Lady Jersey followed me - just so far was
the secret  kept.

Then we came home; Belle, Graham and Lloyd to the Chinaman's,  I with Lady Jersey, to lunch;
so severally home.  Thursday I  have forgotten: Saturday, I began again on Davie; on Sunday,
the Jersey party came up to call and carried me to dinner.   As I came out, to ride home, the
search-lights of the CURACOA  were lightening on the horizon from many miles away, and next
morning she came in.  Tuesday was huge fun: a reception at  Haggard's.  All our party dined
there; Lloyd and I, in the  absence of Haggard and Leigh, had to play aide-de-camp and  host
for about twenty minutes, and I presented the population  of Apia at random but (luck helping)
without one mistake.   Wednesday we had two middies to lunch.  Thursday we had Eeles  and Hoskyn
(lieutenant and doctor - very, very nice fellows -  simple, good and not the least dull) to
dinner.  Saturday,  Graham and I lunched on board; Graham, Belle, Lloyd dined at  the G.'s;
and Austin and the WHOLE of our servants went with  them to an evening entertainment; the more
bold returning by  lantern-light.  Yesterday, Sunday, Belle and I were off by  about half past
eight, left our horses at a public house, and  went on board the CURACOA in the wardroom skiff;
were  entertained in the wardroom; thence on deck to the service,  which was a great treat;
three fiddles and a harmonium and  excellent choir, and the great ship's company joining: on
shore in Haggard's big boat to lunch with the party.  Thence  all together to Vailima, where
we read aloud a Ouida Romance  we have been secretly writing; in which Haggard was the hero,
and each one of the authors had to draw a portrait of him or  herself in a Ouida light.  Leigh,
Lady J., Fanny, R.L.S.,  Belle and Graham were the authors.

In the midst of this gay life, I have finally recopied two  chapters, and drafted for the first
time three of Davie  Balfour.  But it is not a life that would continue to suit  me, and if
I have not continued to write to you, you will  scarce wonder.  And to-day we all go down again
to dinner,  and to-morrow they all come up to lunch!  The world is too  much with us.  But
it now nears an end, to-day already the  CURACOA has sailed; and on Saturday or Sunday Lady
Jersey  will follow them in the mail steamer.  I am sending you a  wire by her hands as far
as Sydney, that is to say either you  or Cassell, about FALESA: I will not allow it to be called
UMA in book form, that is not the logical name of the story.   Nor can I have the marriage
contract omitted; and the thing  is full of misprints abominable.  In the picture, Uma is rot;
so is the old man and the negro; but Wiltshire is splendid,  and Case will do.  It seems badly
illuminated, but this may  be printing.  How have I seen this first number?  Not through  your
attention, guilty one!  Lady Jersey had it, and only  mentioned it yesterday.

I ought to say how much we all like the Jersey party.  My boy  Henry was enraptured with the
manners of the TAWAITAI SILI  (chief lady).  Among our other occupations, I did a bit of a
supposed epic describing our tryst at the ford of the  Gasegase; and Belle and I made a little
book of caricatures  and verses about incidents on the visit.

TUESDAY.

The wild round of gaiety continues.  After I had written to  you yesterday, the brain being
wholly extinct, I played  piquet all morning with Graham.  After lunch down to call on  the
U.S. Consul, hurt in a steeple-chase; thence back to the  new girls' school which Lady J. was
to open, and where my  ladies met me.  Lady J. is really an orator, with a voice of  gold;
the rest of us played our unremarked parts;  missionaries, Haggard, myself, a Samoan chief,
holding forth  in turn; myself with (at least) a golden brevity.  Thence,  Fanny, Belle, and
I to town, to our billiard room in  Haggard's back garden, where we found Lloyd and where Graham
joined us.  The three men first dressed, with the ladies in a  corner; and then, to leave them
a free field, we went off to  Haggard and Leigh's quarters, where - after all to dinner,  where
our two parties, a brother of Colonel Kitchener's, a  passing globe-trotter, and Clarke the
missionary.  A very gay  evening, with all sorts of chaff and mirth, and a moonlit  ride home,
and to bed before 12.30.  And now to-day, we have  the Jersey-Haggard troupe to lunch, and
I must pass the  morning dressing ship.

THURSDAY, SEPT. 1ST.

I sit to write to you now, 7.15, all the world in bed except  myself, accounted for, and Belle
and Graham, down at  Haggard's at dinner.  Not a leaf is stirring here; but the  moon overhead
(now of a good bigness) is obscured and partly  revealed in a whirling covey of thin storm-clouds.
By Jove,  it blows above.

From 8 till 11.15 on Tuesday, I dressed ship, and in  particular cleaned crystal, my specially.
About 11.30 the  guests began to arrive before I was dressed, and between  while I had written
a parody for Lloyd to sing.  Yesterday,  Wednesday, I had to start out about 3 for town, had
a long  interview with the head of the German Firm about some work in  my new house, got over
to Lloyd's billiard-room about six, on  the way whither I met Fanny and Belle coming down with
one  Kitchener, a brother of the Colonel's.  Dined in the  billiard-room, discovered we had
forgot to order oatmeal;  whereupon, in the moonlit evening, I set forth in my tropical  array,
mess jacket and such, to get the oatmeal, and meet a  young fellow C. - and not a bad young
fellow either, only an  idiot - as drunk as Croesus.  He wept with me, he wept for  me; he
talked like a bad character in an impudently bad  farce; I could have laughed aloud to hear,
and could make you  laugh by repeating, but laughter was not uppermost.

This morning at about seven, I set off after the lost sheep.   I could have no horse; all that
could be mounted - we have  one girth-sore and one dead-lame in the establishment - were  due
at a picnic about 10.30.  The morning was very wet, and I  set off barefoot, with my trousers
over my knees, and a  macintosh.  Presently I had to take a side path in the bush;  missed
it; came forth in a great oblong patch of taro  solemnly surrounded by forest - no soul, no
sign, no sound -  and as I stood there at a loss, suddenly between the showers  out broke the
note of a harmonium and a woman's voice singing  an air that I know very well, but have (as
usual) forgot the  name of.  'Twas from a great way off, but seemed to fill the  world.  It
was strongly romantic, and gave me a point which  brought me, by all sorts of forest wading,
to an open space  of palms.  These were of all ages, but mostly at that age  when the branches
arch from the ground level, range  themselves, with leaves exquisitely green.  The whole  interspace
was overgrown with convolvulus, purple, yellow and  white, often as deep as to my waist, in
which I floundered  aimlessly.  The very mountain was invisible from here.  The  rain came
and went; now in sunlit April showers, now with the  proper tramp and rattle of the tropics.
All this while I met  no sight or sound of man, except the voice which was now  silent, and
a damned pig-fence that headed me off at every  corner.  Do you know barbed wire?  Think of
a fence of it on  rotten posts, and you barefoot.  But I crossed it at last  with my heart
in my mouth and no harm done.  Thence at last  to C's.: no C.  Next place I came to was in
the zone of  woods.  They offered me a buggy and set a black boy to wash  my legs and feet.
'Washum legs belong that fellow white-man'  was the command.  So at last I ran down my son
of a gun in  the hotel, sober, and with no story to tell; penitent, I  think.  Home, by buggy
and my poor feet, up three miles of  root, boulder, gravel and liquid mud, slipping back at
every  step.

SUNDAY, SEPT. 4TH.

Hope you will be able to read a word of the last, no joke  writing by a bad lantern with a
groggy hand and your glasses  mislaid.  Not that the hand is not better, as you see by the
absence of the amanuensis hitherto.  Mail came Friday, and a  communication from yourself much
more decent than usual, for  which I thank you.  Glad the WRECKER should so hum; but Lord,
what fools these mortals be!

So far yesterday, the citation being wrung from me by  remembrance of many reviews.  I have
now received all FALESA,  and my admiration for that tale rises; I believe it is in  some ways
my best work; I am pretty sure, at least, I have  never done anything better than Wiltshire.

MONDAY, 13TH SEPTEMBER 1892.

On Wednesday the Spinsters of Apia gave a ball to a select  crowd.  Fanny, Belle, Lloyd and
I rode down, met Haggard by  the way and joined company with him.  Dinner with Haggard,  and
thence to the ball.  The Chief Justice appeared; it was  immediately remarked, and whispered
from one to another, that  he and I had the only red sashes in the room, - and they were  both
of the hue of blood, sir, blood.  He shook hands with  myself and all the members of my family.
Then the cream  came, and I found myself in the same set of a quadrille with  his honour. 
We dance here in Apia a most fearful and  wonderful quadrille, I don't know where the devil
they fished  it from; but it is rackety and prancing and embraceatory  beyond words; perhaps
it is best defined in Haggard's  expression of a gambado.  When I and my great enemy found
ourselves involved in this gambol, and crossing hands, and  kicking up, and being embraced
almost in common by large and  quite respectable females, we - or I - tried to preserve some
rags of dignity, but not for long.  The deuce of it is that,  personally, I love this man;
his eye speaks to me, I am  pleased in his society.  We exchanged a glance, and then a  grin;
the man took me in his confidence; and through the  remainder of that prance we pranced for
each other.  Hard to  imagine any position more ridiculous; a week before he had  been trying
to rake up evidence against me by brow-beating  and threatening a half-white interpreter; that
very morning I  had been writing most villainous attacks upon him for the  TIMES; and we meet
and smile, and - damn it! - like each  other.  I do my best to damn the man and drive him from
these  islands; but the weakness endures - I love him.  This is a  thing I would despise in
anybody else; but he is so jolly  insidious and ingratiating!  No, sir, I can't dislike him;
but if I don't make hay of him, it shall not be for want of  trying.

Yesterday, we had two Germans and a young American boy to  lunch; and in the afternoon, Vailima
was in a state of siege;  ten white people on the front verandah, at least as many  brown in
the cook house, and countless blacks to see the  black boy Arrick.

Which reminds me, Arrick was sent Friday was a week to the  German Firm with a note, and was
not home on time.  Lloyd and  I were going bedward, it was late with a bright moon - ah,  poor
dog, you know no such moons as these! - when home came  Arrick with his head in a white bandage
and his eyes shining.   He had had a fight with other blacks, Malaita boys; many  against one,
and one with a knife: 'I KNICKED 'EM DOWN, three  four!' he cried; and had himself to be taken
to the doctor's  and bandaged.  Next day, he could not work, glory of battle  swelled too high
in his threadpaper breast; he had made a  one-stringed harp for Austin, borrowed it, came to
Fanny's  room, and sang war-songs and danced a war dance in honour of  his victory.  And it
appears, by subsequent advices, that it  was a serious victory enough; four of his assailants
went to  hospital, and one is thought in danger.  All Vailima rejoiced  at this news.

Five more chapters of David, 22 to 27, go to Baxter.  All  love affair; seems pretty good to
me.  Will it do for the  young person?  I don't know: since the Beach, I know nothing,  except
that men are fools and hypocrites, and I know less of  them than I was fond enough to fancy.

CHAPTER XXII

THURSDAY, 15TH SEPTEMBER.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - On Tuesday, we had our young adventurer  ready, and Fanny, Belle, he and
I set out about three of a  dark, deadly hot, and deeply unwholesome afternoon.  Belle  had
the lad behind her; I had a pint of champagne in either  pocket, a parcel in my hands, and
as Jack had a girth sore  and I rode without a girth, I might be said to occupy a very  unstrategic
position.  On the way down, a little dreary,  beastly drizzle beginning to come out of the
darkness, Fanny  put up an umbrella, her horse bounded, reared, cannoned into  me, cannoned
into Belle and the lad, and bolted for home.  It  really might and ought to have been an A1
catastrophe; but  nothing happened beyond Fanny's nerves being a good deal  shattered; of course,
she could not tell what had happened to  us until she got her horse mastered.

Next day, Haggard went off to the Commission and left us in  charge of his house; all our people
came down in wreaths of  flowers; we had a boat for them; Haggard had a flag in the  Commission
boat for us; and when at last the steamer turned  up, the young adventurer was carried on board
in great style,  with a new watch and chain, and about three pound ten of  tips, and five big
baskets of fruit as free-will offerings to  the captain.  Captain Morse had us all to lunch;
champagne  flowed, so did compliments; and I did the affable celebrity  life-sized.  It made
a great send-off for the young  adventurer.  As the boat drew off, he was standing at the 
head of the gangway, supported by three handsome ladies - one  of them a real full-blown beauty,
Madame Green, the singer -  and looking very engaging himself, between smiles and tears.  
Not that he cried in public.

My, but we were a tired crowd!  However, it is always a  blessing to get home, and this time
it was a sort of wonder  to ourselves that we got back alive.  Casualties: Fanny's  back jarred,
horse incident; Belle, bad headache, tears and  champagne; self, idiocy, champagne, fatigue;
Lloyd, ditto,  ditto.  As for the adventurer, I believe he will have a  delightful voyage for
his little start in life.  But there is  always something touching in a mite's first launch.

DATE UNKNOWN.

I am now well on with the third part of the DEBACLE.  The two  first I liked much; the second
completely knocking me; so far  as it has gone, this third part appears the ramblings of a
dull man who has forgotten what he has to say - he reminds me  of an M.P.  But Sedan was really
great, and I will pick no  holes.  The batteries under fire, the red-cross folk, the  county
charge - perhaps, above all, Major Bouroche and the  operations, all beyond discussion; and
every word about the  Emperor splendid.

SEPTEMBER 30TH.

David Balfour done, and its author along with it, or nearly  so.  Strange to think of even
our doctor here repeating his  nonsense about debilitating climate.  Why, the work I have 
been doing the last twelve months, in one continuous spate,  mostly with annoying interruptions
and without any collapse  to mention, would be incredible in Norway.  But I HAVE broken  down
now, and will do nothing as long as I possibly can.   With David Balfour I am very well pleased;
in fact these  labours of the last year - I mean FALESA AND D. B., not  Samoa, of course -
seem to me to be nearer what I mean than  anything I have ever done; nearer what I mean by
fiction; the  nearest thing before was KIDNAPPED.  I am not forgetting the  MASTER OF BALLANTRAE,
but that lacked all pleasurableness,  and hence was imperfect in essence.  So you see, if I
am a  little tired, I do not repent.

The third part of the DEBACLE may be all very fine; but I  cannot read it.  It suffers from
IMPAIRED VITALITY, and  UNCERTAIN AIM; two deadly sicknesses.  Vital - that's what I  am at,
first: wholly vital, with a buoyancy of life.  Then  lyrical, if it may be, and picturesque,
always with an epic  value of scenes, so that the figures remain in the mind's eye  for ever.

OCTOBER 8TH.

Suppose you sent us some of the catalogues of the parties  what vends statutes?  I don't want
colossal Herculeses, but  about quarter size and less.  If the catalogues were  illustrated
it would probably be found a help to weak  memories.  These may be found to alleviate spare
moments,  when we sometimes amuse ourselves by thinking how fine we  shall make the palace
if we do not go pop.  Perhaps in the  same way it might amuse you to send us any pattern of
wall  paper that might strike you as cheap, pretty and suitable for  a room in a hot and extremely
bright climate.  It should be  borne in mind that our climate can be extremely dark too.  
Our sitting-room is to be in varnished wood.  The room I have  particularly in mind is a sort
of bed and sitting-room,  pretty large, lit on three sides, and the colour in favour of  its
proprietor at present is a topazy yellow.  But then with  what colour to relieve it?  For a
little work-room of my own  at the back.  I should rather like to see some patterns of  unglossy
- well, I'll be hanged if I can describe this red -  it's not Turkish and it's not Roman and
it's not Indian, but  it seems to partake of the two last, and yet it can't be  either of them,
because it ought to be able to go with  vermilion.  Ah, what a tangled web we weave - anyway,
with  what brains you have left choose me and send me some - many -  patterns of this exact shade.

A few days ago it was Haggard's birthday and we had him and  his cousin to dinner - bless me
if I ever told you of his  cousin! - he is here anyway, and a fine, pleasing specimen,  so
that we have concluded (after our own happy experience)  that the climate of Samoa must be
favourable to cousins.   Then we went out on the verandah in a lovely moonlight,  drinking
port, hearing the cousin play and sing, till  presently we were informed that our boys had
got up a siva in  Lafaele's house to which we were invited.  It was entirely  their own idea.
The house, you must understand, is one-half  floored, and one-half bare earth, and the dais
stands a  little over knee high above the level of the soil.  The dais  was the stage, with
three footlights.  We audience sat on  mats on the floor, and the cook and three of our work-boys,
sometimes assisted by our two ladies, took their places  behind the footlights and began a
topical Vailima song.  The  burden was of course that of a Samoan popular song about a  white
man who objects to all that he sees in Samoa.  And  there was of course a special verse for
each one of the party  - Lloyd was called the dancing man (practically the Chief's  handsome
son) of Vailima; he was also, in his character I  suppose of overseer, compared to a policeman
- Belle had that  day been the almoner in a semi-comic distribution of wedding  rings and thimbles
(bought cheap at an auction) to the whole  plantation company, fitting a ring on every man's
finger, and  a ring and a thimble on both the women's.  This was very much  in character with
her native name TEUILA, the adorner of the  ugly - so of course this was the point of her verse
and at a  given moment all the performers displayed the rings upon  their fingers.  Pelema
(the cousin - OUR cousin) was  described as watching from the house and whenever he saw any
boy not doing anything, running and doing it himself.   Fanny's verse was less intelligible,
but it was accompanied  in the dance with a pantomime of terror well-fitted to call  up her
haunting, indefatigable and diminutive presence in a  blue gown.

CHAPTER XXIII

VAILIMA, OCTOBER 28TH, 1892.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is very late to begin the monthly  budget, but I have a good excuse
this time, for I have had a  very annoying fever with symptoms of sore arm, and in the  midst
of it a very annoying piece of business which suffered  no delay or idleness. . . . The consequence
of all this was  that my fever got very much worse and your letter has not  been hitherto written.
But, my dear fellow, do compare these  little larky fevers with the fine, healthy, prostrating
colds  of the dear old dead days at home.  Here was I, in the middle  of a pretty bad one,
and I was able to put it in my pocket,  and go down day after day, and attend to and put my
strength  into this beastly business.  Do you see me doing that with a  catarrh?  And if I
had done so, what would have been the  result?

Last night, about four o'clock, Belle and I set off to Apia,  whither my mother had preceded
us.  She was at the Mission;  we went to Haggard's.  There we had to wait the most  unconscionable
time for dinner.  I do not wish to speak  lightly of the Amanuensis, who is unavoidably present,
but I  may at least say for myself that I was as cross as two  sticks.  Dinner came at last,
we had the tinned soup which is  usually the PIECE DE RESISTANCE in the halls of Haggard, and
we pitched into it.  Followed an excellent salad of tomatoes  and cray-fish, a good Indian
curry, a tender joint of beef, a  dish of pigeons, a pudding, cheese and coffee.  I was so
over-eaten after this 'hunger and burst' that I could  scarcely move; and it was my sad fate
that night in the  character of the local author to eloquute before the public -  'Mr. Stevenson
will read a selection from his own works' - a  degrading picture.  I had determined to read
them the account  of the hurricane; I do not know if I told you that my book  has never turned
up here, or rather only one copy has, and  that in the unfriendly hands of -.  It has therefore
only  been seen by enemies; and this combination of mystery and  evil report has been greatly
envenomed by some ill-judged  newspaper articles from the States.  Altogether this specimen
was listened to with a good deal of uncomfortable expectation  on the part of the Germans,
and when it was over was  applauded with unmistakable relief.  The public hall where  these
revels came off seems to be unlucky for me; I never go  there but to some stone-breaking job.
Last time it was the  public meeting of which I must have written you; this time it  was this
uneasy but not on the whole unsuccessful experiment.   Belle, my mother, and I rode home about
midnight in a fine  display of lightning and witch-fires.  My mother is absent,  so that I
may dare to say that she struck me as voluble.  The  Amanuensis did not strike me the same
way; she was probably  thinking, but it was really rather a weird business, and I  saw what
I have never seen before, the witch-fires gathered  into little bright blue points almost as
bright as a night- light.

SATURDAY

This is the day that should bring your letter; it is gray and  cloudy and windless; thunder
rolls in the mountain; it is a  quarter past six, and I am alone, sir, alone in this  workman's
house, Belle and Lloyd having been down all  yesterday to meet the steamer; they were scarce
gone with  most of the horses and all the saddles, than there began a  perfect picnic of the
sick and maim; Iopu with a bad foot,  Faauma with a bad shoulder, Fanny with yellow spots.
It was  at first proposed to carry all these to the doctor,  particularly Faauma, whose shoulder
bore an appearance of  erysipelas, that sent the amateur below.  No horses, no  saddle.  Now
I had my horse and I could borrow Lafaele's  saddle; and if I went alone I could do a job that
had long  been waiting; and that was to interview the doctor on another  matter.  Off I set
in a hazy moonlight night; windless, like  to-day; the thunder rolling in the mountain, as
to-day; in  the still groves, these little mushroom lamps glowing blue  and steady, singly
or in pairs.  Well, I had my interview,  said everything as I had meant, and with just the
result I  hoped for.  The doctor and I drank beer together and  discussed German literature
until nine, and we parted the  best of friends.  I got home to a silent house of sleepers,
only Fanny awaiting me; we talked awhile, in whispers, on the  interview; then, I got a lantern
and went across to the  workman's house, now empty and silent, myself sole occupant.   So to
bed, prodigious tired but mighty content with my  night's work, and to-day, with a headache
and a chill, have  written you this page, while my new novel waits.  Of this I  will tell you
nothing, except the various names under  consideration.  First, it ought to be called - but
of course  that is impossible -

BRAXFIELD. Then it IS to be called either WEIR OF HERMISTON, THE LORD-JUSTICE CLERK, THE TWO
KIRSTIES OF THE CAULDSTANESLAP, or FOUR BLACK BROTHERS.

Characters:

Adam Weir, Lord-Justice Clerk, called Lord Hermiston. Archie, his son. Aunt Kirstie Elliott,
his housekeeper at Hermiston. Elliott of the Cauldstaneslap, her brother. Kirstie Elliott,
his daughter. Jim,    } Gib,    } Hob     } his sons. &       } Dandie, } Patrick Innes, a
young advocate. The Lord-Justice General.

Scene, about Hermiston in the Lammermuirs and in Edinburgh.   Temp. 1812. So you see you are
to have another holiday from  copra!  The rain begins softly on the iron roof, and I will 
do the reverse and - dry up.

SUNDAY.

Yours with the diplomatic private opinion received.  It is  just what I should have supposed.
CA M'EST BIEN EGAL. - The  name is to be

THE LORD-JUSTICE CLERK.

None others are genuine.  Unless it be

LORD-JUSTICE CLERK HERMISTON.

NOV. 2ND.

On Saturday we expected Captain Morse of the Alameda to come  up to lunch, and on Friday with
genuine South Sea hospitality  had a pig killed.  On the Saturday morning no pig.  Some of
the boys seemed to give a doubtful account of themselves; our  next neighbour below in the
wood is a bad fellow and very  intimate with some of our boys, for whom his confounded house
is like a fly-paper for flies.  To add to all this, there was  on the Saturday a great public
presentation of food to the  King and Parliament men, an occasion on which it is almost  dignified
for a Samoan to steal anything, and entirely  dignified for him to steal a pig.

(The Amanuensis went to the TALOLO, as it is called, and saw  something so very pleasing she
begs to interrupt the letter  to tell it.  The different villagers came in in bands - led 
by the maid of the village, followed by the young warriors.   It was a very fine sight, for
some three thousand people are  said to have assembled.  The men wore nothing but magnificent
head-dresses and a bunch of leaves, and were oiled and  glistening in the sunlight.  One band
had no maid but was led  by a tiny child of about five - a serious little creature  clad in
a ribbon of grass and a fine head-dress, who skipped  with elaborate leaps in front of the
warriors, like a little  kid leading a band of lions.  A.M.)

The A.M. being done, I go on again.  All this made it very  possible that even if none of our
boys had stolen the pig,  some of them might know the thief.  Besides, the theft, as it  was
a theft of meat prepared for a guest, had something of  the nature of an insult, and 'my face,'
in native phrase,  'was ashamed.'  Accordingly, we determined to hold a bed of  justice.  It
was done last night after dinner.  I sat at the  head of the table, Graham on my right hand,
Henry Simele at  my left, Lloyd behind him.  The house company sat on the  floor around the
walls - twelve all told.  I am described as  looking as like Braxfield as I could manage with
my  appearance; Graham, who is of a severe countenance, looked  like Rhadamanthus; Lloyd was
hideous to the view; and Simele  had all the fine solemnity of a Samoan chief.  The  proceedings
opened by my delivering a Samoan prayer, which  may be translated thus - 'Our God, look down
upon us and  shine into our hearts.  Help us to be far from falsehood so  that each one of
us may stand before Thy Face in his  integrity.' - Then, beginning with Simele, every one came
up  to the table, laid his hand on the Bible, and repeated clause  by clause after me the following
oath - I fear it may sound  even comic in English, but it is a very pretty piece of  Samoan,
and struck direct at the most lively superstitions of  the race.  'This is the Holy Bible here
that I am touching.   Behold me, O God!  If I know who it was that took away the  pig, or the
place to which it was taken, or have heard  anything relating to it, and shall not declare
the same - be  made an end of by God this life of mine!'  They all took it  with so much seriousness
and firmness that (as Graham said)  if they were not innocent they would make invaluable  witnesses.
I was so far impressed by their bearing that I  went no further, and the funny and yet strangely
solemn scene  came to an end.

SUNDAY, NO. 6th.

Here is a long story to go back upon, and I wonder if I have  either time or patience for the task?

Wednesday I had a great idea of match-making, and proposed to  Henry that Faale would make
a good wife for him.  I wish I  had put this down when it was fresher in my mind, it was so
interesting an interview.  My gentleman would not tell if I  were on or not.  'I do not know
yet; I will tell you next  week.  May I tell the sister of my father?  No, better not,  tell
her when it is done.' - 'But will not your family be  angry if you marry without asking them?'
- 'My village?  What  does my village want?  Mats!'  I said I thought the girl  would grow
up to have a great deal of sense, and my gentleman  flew out upon me; she had sense now, he said.

Thursday, we were startled by the note of guns, and presently  after heard it was an English
war ship.  Graham and I set off  at once, and as soon as we met any townsfolk they began  crying
to me that I was to be arrested.  It was the VOSSISCHE  ZEITUNG article which had been quoted
in a paper.  Went on  board and saw Captain Bourke; he did not even know - not even  guess
- why he was here; having been sent off by cablegram  from Auckland.  It is hoped the same
ship that takes this off  Europewards may bring his orders and our news.  But which is  it
to be?  Heads or tails?  If it is to be German, I hope  they will deport me; I should prefer
it so; I do not think  that I could bear a German officialdom, and should probably  have to
leave SPONTE MEA, which is only less picturesque and  more expensive.

8TH.

Mail day.  All well, not yet put in prison, whatever may be  in store for me.  No time even
to sign this lame letter.

CHAPTER XXIV

DEC. 1ST.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Another grimy little odd and end of paper,  for which you shall be this month
repaid in kind, and serve  you jolly well right. . .  The new house is roofed; it will  be
a braw house, and what is better, I have my yearly bill  in, and I find I can pay for it. 
For all which mercies, etc.   I must have made close on 4,000 pounds this year all told;  but,
what is not so pleasant, I seem to have come near to  spending them.  I have been in great
alarm, with this new  house on the cards, all summer, and came very near to taking  in sail,
but I live here so entirely on credit, that I  determined to hang on.

DEC. 1ST.

I was saying yesterday that my life was strange and did not  think how well I spoke.  Yesterday
evening I was briefed to  defend a political prisoner before the Deputy Commissioner.   What
do you think of that for a vicissitude?

DEC. 3RD.

Now for a confession.  When I heard you and Cassells had  decided to print THE BOTTLE IMP along
with FALESA, I was too  much disappointed to answer.  THE BOTTLE IMP was the PIECE DE  RESISTANCE
for my volume, ISLAND NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.   However, that volume might have never got done;
and I send  you two others in case they should be in time.

First have the BEACH OF FALESA.

Then a fresh false title: ISLAND NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS; and  then

THE BOTTLE IMP: a cue from an old melodrama.

THE ISLE OF VOICES.

THE WAIF WOMAN; a cue from a SAGA.

Of course these two others are not up to the mark of THE  BOTTLE IMP; but they each have a
certain merit, and they fit  in style.  By saying 'a cue from an old melodrama' after the 
B. I., you can get rid of my note.  If this is in time, it  will be splendid, and will make
quite a volume.

Should you and Cassells prefer, you can call the whole volume  I. N. E. - though the BEACH
OF FALESA is the child of a quite  different inspiration.  They all have a queer realism, even
the most extravagant, even the ISLE OF VOICES; the manners  are exact.

Should they come too late, have them type-written, and return  to me here the type-written copies.

SUNDAY, DEC. 4TH.

3rd start, - But now more humbly and with the aid of an  Amanuensis.  First one word about
page 2.  My wife protests  against the Waif-woman and I am instructed to report the same  to
you. . . .

DEC. 5TH.

A horrid alarm rises that our October mail was burned  crossing the Plains.  If so, you lost
a beautiful long letter  - I am sure it was beautiful though I remember nothing about  it -
and I must say I think it serves you properly well.   That I should continue writing to you
at such length is  simply a vicious habit for which I blush.  At the same time,  please communicate
at once with Charles Baxter whether you  have or have not received a letter posted here Oct
12th, as  he is going to cable me the fate of my mail.

Now to conclude my news.  The German Firm have taken my book  like angels, and the result is
that Lloyd and I were down  there at dinner on Saturday, where we partook of fifteen  several
dishes and eight distinct forms of intoxicating  drink.  To the credit of Germany, I must say
there was not a  shadow of a headache the next morning.  I seem to have done  as well as my
neighbours, for I hear one of the clerks  expressed the next morning a gratified surprise that
Mr.  Stevenson stood his drink so well.  It is a strange thing  that any race can still find
joy in such athletic exercises.   I may remark in passing that the mail is due and you have
had  far more than you deserve. R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXV

JANUARY 1893.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - You are properly paid at last, and it is  like you will have but a shadow
of a letter.  I have been  pretty thoroughly out of kilter; first a fever that would  neither
come on nor go off, then acute dyspepsia, in the  weakening grasp of which I get wandering
between the waking  state and one of nightmare.  Why the devil does no one send  me ATALANTA?
And why are there no proofs of D. Balfour?   Sure I should have had the whole, at least the
half, of them  by now; and it would be all for the advantage of the  Atalantans.  I have written
to Cassell & Co. (matter of  FALESA) 'you will please arrange with him' (meaning you).   'What
he may decide I shall abide.'  So consider your hand  free, and act for me without fear or
favour.  I am greatly  pleased with the illustrations.  It is very strange to a  South-Seayer
to see Hawaiian women dressed like Samoans, but  I guess that's all one to you in Middlesex.
It's about the  same as if London city men were shown going to the Stock  Exchange as PIFFERARI;
but no matter, none will sleep worse  for it.  I have accepted Cassell's proposal as an amendment
to one of mine; that D. B. is to be brought out first under  the title CATRIONA without pictures;
and, when the hour  strikes, KIDNAPPED and CATRIONA are to form vols. I. and II.  of the heavily
illustrated 'Adventures of David Balfour' at  7s. 6d. each, sold separately.

-'s letter was vastly sly and dry and shy.  I am not afraid  now.  Two attempts have been made,
both have failed, and I  imagine these failures strengthen me.  Above all this is true  of
the last, where my weak point was attempted.  On every  other, I am strong.  Only force can
dislodge me, for public  opinion is wholly on my side.  All races and degrees are  united in
heartfelt opposition to the Men of Mulinuu.  The  news of the fighting was of no concern to
mortal man; it was  made much of because men love talk of battles, and because  the Government
pray God daily for some scandal not their own;  but it was only a brisk episode in a clan fight
which has  grown apparently endemic in the west of Tutuila.  At the best  it was a twopenny
affair, and never occupied my mind five  minutes.

I am so weary of reports that are without foundation and  threats that go without fulfilment,
and so much occupied  besides by the raging troubles of my own wame, that I have  been very
slack on politics, as I have been in literature.   With incredible labour, I have rewritten
the First Chapter of  the Justice Clerk; it took me about ten days, and requires  another athletic
dressing after all.  And that is my story  for the month.  The rest is grunting and grutching.

Consideranda for THE BEACH:-

I. Whether to add one or both the tales I sent you? II. Whether to call the whole volume 'Island
Nights  Entertainments'? III Whether, having waited so long, it would not be better to  give
me another mail, in case I could add another member to  the volume and a little better justify
the name?

If I possibly can draw up another story, I will.  What  annoyed me about the use of THE BOTTLE
IMP was that I had  always meant it for the centre-piece of a volume of MARCHEN  which I was
slowly to elaborate.  You always had an idea that  I depreciated the B. I; I can't think wherefore;
I always  particularly liked it - one of my best works, and ill to  equal; and that was why
I loved to keep it in portfolio till  I had time to grow up to some other fruit of the same
VENUE.   However, that is disposed of now, and we must just do the  best we can.

I am not aware that there is anything to add; the weather is  hellish, waterspouts, mists,
chills, the foul fiend's own  weather, following on a week of expurgated heaven; so it goes
at this bewildering season.  I write in the upper floor of my  new house, of which I will send
you some day a plan to  measure.  'Tis an elegant structure, surely, and the proid of  me oi.
Was asked to pay for it just now, and genteelly  refused, and then agreed, in view of general
good-will, to  pay a half of what is still due.

24TH JANUARY 1893.

This ought to have gone last mail and was forgotten.  My best  excuse is that I was engaged
in starting an influenza, to  which class of exploit our household has been since then  entirely
dedicated.  We had eight cases, one of them very  bad, and one - mine - complicated with my
old friend Bluidy  Jack.  Luckily neither Fanny, Lloyd or Belle took the  confounded thing,
and they were able to run the household and  nurse the sick to admiration.

Some of our boys behaved like real trumps.  Perhaps the  prettiest performance was that of
our excellent Henry Simele,  or, as we sometimes call him, Davy Balfour.  Henry, I maun  premeese,
is a chief; the humblest Samoan recoils from  emptying slops as you would from cheating at
cards; now the  last nights of our bad time when we had seven down together,  it was enough
to have made anybody laugh or cry to see Henry  going the rounds with a slop-bucket and going
inside the  mosquito net of each of the sick, Protestant and Catholic  alike, to pray with them.

I must tell you that in my sickness I had a huge alleviation  and began a new story.  This
I am writing by dictation, and  really think it is an art I can manage to acquire.  The  relief
is beyond description; it is just like a school-treat  to me and the amanuensis bears up extraordinar'.
The story  is to be called ST. IVES; I give you your choice whether or  not it should bear
the subtitle, 'Experiences of a French  prisoner in England.'  We were just getting on splendidly
with it, when this cursed mail arrived and requires to be  attended to.  It looks to me very
like as if St. Ives would  be ready before any of the others, but you know me and how  impossible
it is I should predict.  The name of the hero is Anne de St. Yves  - he Englishes his name
to St. Ives during his escape.  It is  my idea to get a ring made which shall either represent
ANNE  or A. S. Y. A., of course, would be Amethyst and S. Sapphire,  which is my favourite
stone anyway and was my father's before  me.  But what would the ex-Slade professor do about
the  letter Y?  Or suppose he took the other version, how would he  meet the case, the two
N.'s?  These things are beyond my  knowledge, which it would perhaps be more descriptive to
call  ignorance.  But I place the matter in the meanwhile under  your consideration and beg
to hear your views.   I shall send you when the time is ripe a ring to measure by.

To resume our sad tale.  After the other seven were almost  wholly recovered Henry lay down
to influenza on his own  account.  He is but just better and it looks as though Fanny  were
about to bring up the rear.  As for me, I am all right,  though I WAS reduced to dictating
ANNE in the deaf and dumb  alphabet, which I think you will admit is a COMBLE.

Politics leave me extraordinary cold.  It seems that so much  of my purpose has come off, and
Cedarcrantz and Pilsach are  sacked.  The rest of it has all gone to water.  The triple- headed
ass at home, in his plenitude of ignorance, prefers to  collect the taxes and scatter the Mataafas
by force or the  threat of force.  It may succeed, and I suppose it will.  It  is none the
less for that expensive, harsh, unpopular and  unsettling.  I am young enough to have been
annoyed, and  altogether eject and renegate the whole idea of political  affairs.  Success
in that field appears to be the  organisation of failure enlivened with defamation of  character;
and, much as I love pickles and hot water (in your  true phrase) I shall take my pickles in
future from Crosse  and Blackwell and my hot water with a dose of good Glenlivat.

Do not bother at all about the wall-papers.  We have had the  whole of our new house varnished,
and it looks beautiful.  I  wish you could see the hall; poor room, it had to begin life  as
an infirmary during our recent visitation; but it is  really a handsome comely place, and when
we get the  furniture, and the pictures, and what is so very much more  decorative, the picture
frames, will look sublime.

JAN. 30TH.

I have written to Charles asking for Rowlandson's Syntax and  Dance of Death out of our house,
and begging for anything  about fashions and manners (fashions particularly) for 1814.   Can
you help?  Both the Justice Clerk and St. Ives fall in  that fated year.  Indeed I got into
St. Ives while going over  the Annual Register for the other.  There is a kind of fancy  list
of Chaps. of St. Ives.  (It begins in Edinburgh Castle.)  I. Story of a lion rampant (that
was a toy he had made, and  given to a girl visitor).  II.  Story of a pair of scissors.  
III. St. Ives receives a bundle of money.  IV. St. Ives is  shown a house.  V. The Escape.
VI. The Cottage (Swanston  College).  VII. The Hen-house.  VIII. Three is company and  four
none.  IX. The Drovers.  X. The Great North Road.  XI.  Burchell Fenn.  XII. The covered cart.
XIII. The doctor.   XIV. The Luddites.  V. Set a thief to catch a thief.  XXVI.  M. le Comte
de Keroualle (his uncle, the rich EMIGRE, whom he  finds murdered).  XVII. The cousins.  XVIII.
Mr. Sergeant  Garrow.  XIX. A meeting at the Ship, Dover.  XX. Diane.  XXI.  The Duke's Prejudices.
XXII. The False Messenger.  XXIII.  The gardener's ladder.  XXIV. The officers.  XXV. Trouble
with the Duke.  XXVI. Fouquet again.  XXVII. The Aeronaut.   XXVIII. The True-Blooded Yankee.
XXIX. In France.  I don't  know where to stop.  Apropos, I want a book about Paris, and  the
FIRST RETURN of the EMIGRES and all up to the CENT JOURS:  d'ye ken anything in my way?  I
want in particular to know  about them and the Napoleonic functionaries and officers, and 
to get the colour and some vital details of the business of  exchange of departments from one
side to the other.  Ten  chapters are drafted, and VIII. re-copied by me, but will  want another
dressing for luck.  It is merely a story of  adventure, rambling along; but that is perhaps
the guard that  'sets my genius best,' as Alan might have said.  I wish I  could feel as easy
about the other!  But there, all novels  are a heavy burthen while they are doing, and a sensible
disappointment when they are done.

For God's sake, let me have a copy of the new German Samoa  White book.  R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXVI

AT SEA, S.S. & MARIPOSA, FEB. 19th, '93.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - You will see from this heading that I am  not dead yet nor likely to be.
I was pretty considerably out  of sorts, and that is indeed one reason why Fanny, Belle, and
I have started out for a month's lark.  To be quite exact, I  think it will be about five weeks
before we get home.  We  shall stay between two and three in Sydney.  Already, though  we only
sailed yesterday, I am feeling as fit as a fiddle.   Fanny ate a whole fowl for breakfast,
to say nothing of a  tower of hot cakes.  Belle and I floored another hen betwixt  the pair
of us, and I shall be no sooner done with the  present amanuensing racket than I shall put
myself outside a  pint of Guinness.  If you think this looks like dying of  consumption in
Apia I can only say I differ from you.  In the  matter of David, I have never yet received
my proofs at all,  but shall certainly wait for your suggestions.  Certainly,  Chaps. 17 to
20 are the hitch, and I confess I hurried over  them with both wings spread.  This is doubtless
what you  complain of.  Indeed, I placed my single reliance on Miss  Grant.  If she couldn't
ferry me over, I felt I had to stay  there.

About ISLAND NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS all you say is highly  satisfactory.  Go in and win.

The extracts from the TIMES I really cannot trust myself to  comment upon.  They were infernally
satisfactory; so, and  perhaps still more so, was a letter I had at the same time  from Lord
Pembroke.  If I have time as I go through Auckland,  I am going to see Sir George Grey.

Now I really think that's all the business.  I have been  rather sick and have had two small
hemorrhages, but the  second I believe to have been accidental.  No good denying  that this
annoys, because it do.  However, you must expect  influenza to leave some harm, and my spirits,
appetite, peace  on earth and goodwill to men are all on a rising market.   During the last
week the amanuensis was otherwise engaged,  whereupon I took up, pitched into, and about one
half  demolished another tale, once intended to be called THE PEARL  FISHER, but now razeed
and called THE SCHOONER FARRALONE.  We  had a capital start, the steamer coming in at sunrise,
and  just giving us time to get our letters ere she sailed again.   The manager of the German
firm (O strange, changed days!)  danced attendance upon us all morning; his boat conveyed us
to and from the steamer.

FEB. 21ST.

All continues well.  Amanuensis bowled over for a day, but  afoot again and jolly; Fanny enormously
bettered by the  voyage; I have been as jolly as a sand-boy as usual at sea.   The Amanuensis
sits opposite to me writing to her offspring.   Fanny is on deck.  I have just supplied her
with the Canadian  Pacific Agent, and so left her in good hands.  You should  hear me at table
with the Ulster purser and a little punning  microscopist called Davis.  Belle does some kind
of abstruse  Boswellising; after the first meal, having gauged the kind of  jests that would
pay here, I observed, 'Boswell is Barred  during this cruise.'

23RD

We approach Auckland and I must close my mail.  All goes well  with the trio.  Both the ladies
are hanging round a beau -  the same - that I unearthed for them: I am general provider,  and
especially great in the beaux business.  I corrected some  proofs for Fanny yesterday afternoon,
fell asleep over them  in the saloon - and the whole ship seems to have been down  beholding
me.  After I woke up, had a hot bath, a whiskey  punch and a cigarette, and went to bed, and
to sleep too, at  8.30; a recrudescence of Vailima hours.  Awoke to-day, and  had to go to
the saloon clock for the hour - no sign of dawn  - all heaven grey rainy fog.  Have just had
breakfast,  written up one letter, register and close this.

CHAPTER XXVII

Bad pen, bad ink, bad light, bad blotting-paper.

S. S. MARIPOSA, AT SEA. APIA DUE BY DAYBREAK TO-MORROW 9 P.M.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Have had an amusing but tragic holiday,  from which we return in disarray.
Fanny quite sick, but I  think slowly and steadily mending; Belle in a terrific state  of dentistry
troubles which now seem calmed; and myself with  a succession of gentle colds out of which
I at last succeeded  in cooking up a fine pleurisy.  By stopping and stewing in a  perfectly
airless state-room I seem to have got rid of the  pleurisy.  Poor Fanny had very little fun
of her visit,  having been most of the time on a diet of maltine and slops -  and this while
the rest of us were rioting on oysters and  mushrooms.  Belle's only devil in the hedge was
the dentist.   As for me, I was entertained at the General Assembly of the  Presbyterian Church,
likewise at a sort of artistic club;  made speeches at both, and may therefore be said to have
been, like Saint Paul, all things to all men.  I have an  account of the latter racket which
I meant to have enclosed  in this. . . . Had some splendid photos taken, likewise a  medallion
by a French sculptor; met Graham, who returned with  us as far as Auckland.  Have seen a good
deal too of Sir  George Grey; what a wonderful old historic figure to be  walking on your arm
and recalling ancient events and  instances!  It makes a man small, and yet the extent to which
he approved what I had done - or rather have tried to do -  encouraged me.  Sir George is an
expert at least, he knows  these races: he is not a small employe with an ink-pot and a  Whittaker.

Take it for all in all, it was huge fun: even Fanny had some  lively sport at the beginning;
Belle and I all through.  We  got Fanny a dress on the sly, gaudy black velvet and Duchesse
lace.  And alas! she was only able to wear it once.  But  we'll hope to see more of it at Samoa;
it really is lovely.   Both dames are royally outfitted in silk stockings, etc.  We  return,
as from a raid, with our spoils and our wounded.  I  am now very dandy: I announced two years
ago that I should  change.  Slovenly youth, all right - not slovenly age.  So  really now I
am pretty spruce; always a white shirt, white  necktie, fresh shave, silk, socks, O a great
sight! - No more  possible, R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXVIII

APRIL, 1893.

1. SLIP 3.  Davie would be ATTRACTED into a similar dialect,  as he is later - e.g., with Doig,
chapter XIX.  This is truly  Scottish.

4, TO LIGHTLY; correct; 'to lightly' is a good regular Scots  verb.

15. See Allan Ramsay's works.

15, 16. Ay, and that is one of the pigments with which I am  trying to draw the character of
Prestongrange.  'Tis a most  curious thing to render that kind, insignificant mask.  To  make
anything precise is to risk my effect.  And till the day  he died, DAVIE was never sure of
what P. was after.  Not only  so; very often P. didn't know himself.  There was an element
of mere liking for Davie; there was an element of being  determined, in case of accidents,
to keep well with him.  He  hoped his Barbara would bring him to her feet, besides, and  make
him manageable.  That was why he sent him to Hope Park  with them.  But Davie cannot KNOW;
I give you the inside of  Davie, and my method condemns me to give only the outside  both of
Prestongrange and his policy.

- I'll give my mind to the technicalities.  Yet to me they  seem a part of the story, which
is historical, after all.

- I think they wanted Alan to escape.  But when or where to  say so?  I will try.

- 20, DEAN.  I'll try and make that plainer.

CHAP. XIII., I fear it has to go without blows.  If I could  get the pair - No, can't be.

- XIV.  All right, will abridge.

- XV.  I'd have to put a note to every word; and he who can't  read Scots can NEVER enjoy Tod
Lapraik.

- XVII.  Quite right.  I CAN make this plainer, and will.

- XVIII.  I know, but I have to hurry here; this is the  broken back of my story; some business
briefly transacted, I  am leaping for Barbara's apron-strings.

SLIP 57.  Quite right again; I shall make it plain.

CHAP. XX.  I shall make all these points clear.  About Lady  Prestongrange (not LADY Grant,
only MISS Grant, my dear,  though LADY Prestongrange, quoth the dominie) I am taken with  your
idea of her death, and have a good mind to substitute a  featureless aunt.

SLIP 78.  I don't see how to lessen this effect.  There is  really not much said of it; and
I know Catriona did it.  But  I'll try.

- 89.  I know.  This is an old puzzle of mine.  You see C.'s  dialect is not wholly a bed of
roses.  If only I knew the  Gaelic.  Well, I'll try for another expression.

THE END.  I shall try to work it over.  James was at Dunkirk  ordering post-horses for his
own retreat.  Catriona did have  her suspicions aroused by the letter, and, careless  gentleman,
I told you so - or she did at least. - Yes, the  blood money, I am bothered about the portmanteau;
it is the  presence of Catriona that bothers me; the rape of the  pockmantie is historic. . . .

To me, I own, it seems in the proof a very pretty piece of  workmanship.  David himself I refuse
to discuss; he IS.  The  Lord Advocate I think a strong sketch of a very difficult  character,
James More, sufficient; and the two girls very  pleasing creatures.  But O dear me, I came
near losing my  heart to Barbara!  I am not quite so constant as David, and  even he - well,
he didn't know it, anyway!  TOD LAPRAIK is a  piece of living Scots: if I had never writ anything
but that  and THRAWN JANET, still I'd have been a writer.  The defects  of D.B. are inherent,
I fear.  But on the whole, I am far  indeed from being displeased with the tailie.  They want
more  Alan?  Well, they can't get it.

I found my fame much grown on this return to civilisation.   DIGITO MONSTRARI is a new experience;
people all looked at me  in the streets in Sydney; and it was very queer.  Here, of  course,
I am only the white chief in the Great House to the  natives; and to the whites, either an
ally or a foe.  It is a  much healthier state of matters.  If I lived in an atmosphere  of
adulation, I should end by kicking against the pricks.  O  my beautiful forest, O my beautiful
shining, windy house,  what a joy it was to behold them again!  No chance to take  myself too
seriously here.

The difficulty of the end is the mass of matter to be  attended to, and the small time left
to transact it in.  I  mean from Alan's danger of arrest.  But I have just seen my  way out,
I do believe.

EASTER SUNDAY.

I have now got as far as slip 28, and finished the chapter of  the law technicalities.  Well,
these seemed to me always of  the essence of the story, which is the story of a CAUSE  CELEBRE;
moreover, they are the justification of my  inventions; if these men went so far (granting
Davie sprung  on them) would they not have gone so much further?  But of  course I knew they
were a difficulty; determined to carry  them through in a conversation; approached this (it
seems)  with cowardly anxiety; and filled it with gabble, sir,  gabble.  I have left all my
facts, but have removed 42 lines.   I should not wonder but what I'll end by re-writing it.
It  is not the technicalities that shocked you, it was my bad  art.  It is very strange that
X. should be so good a chapter  and IX. and XI. so uncompromisingly bad.  It looks as if XI.
also would have to be re-formed.  If X. had not cheered me  up, I should be in doleful dumps,
but X. is alive anyway, and  life is all in all.

THURSDAY, APRIL 5TH.

Well, there's no disguise possible; Fanny is not well, and we  are miserably anxious. . . .

FRIDAY, 7TH.

I am thankful to say the new medicine relieved her at once.   A crape has been removed from
the day for all of us.  To make  things better, the morning is ah! such a morning as you have
never seen; heaven upon earth for sweetness, freshness, depth  upon depth of unimaginable colour,
and a huge silence broken  at this moment only by the far-away murmur of the Pacific and  the
rich piping of a single bird.  You can't conceive what a  relief this is; it seems a new world.
She has such  extraordinary recuperative power that I do hope for the best.   I am as tired
as man can be.  This is a great trial to a  family, and I thank God it seems as if ours was
going to bear  it well.  And O! if it only lets up, it will be but a  pleasant memory.  We
are all seedy, bar Lloyd: Fanny, as per  above; self nearly extinct; Belle, utterly overworked
and bad  toothache; Cook, down with a bad foot; Butler, prostrate with  a bad leg.  Eh, what
a faim'ly!

SUNDAY.

Grey heaven, raining torrents of rain; occasional thunder and  lightning.  Everything to dispirit;
but my invalids are  really on the mend.  The rain roars like the sea; in the  sound of it
there is a strange and ominous suggestion of an  approaching tramp; something nameless and
measureless seems  to draw near, and strikes me cold, and yet is welcome.  I lie  quiet in
bed to-day, and think of the universe with a good  deal of equanimity.  I have, at this moment,
but the one  objection to it; the FRACAS with which it proceeds.  I do not  love noise; I am
like my grandfather in that; and so many  years in these still islands has ingrained the sentiment
perhaps.  Here are no trains, only men pacing barefoot.  No  carts or carriages; at worst the
rattle of a horse's shoes  among the rocks.  Beautiful silence; and so soon as this  robustious
rain takes off, I am to drink of it again by  oceanfuls.

APRIL 16TH.

Several pages of this letter destroyed as beneath scorn; the  wailings of a crushed worm; matter
in which neither you nor I  can take stock.  Fanny is distinctly better, I believe all  right
now; I too am mending, though I have suffered from  crushed wormery, which is not good for
the body, and  damnation to the soul.  I feel to-night a baseless anxiety to  write a lovely
poem A PROPOS DES BOTTES DE MA GRANDMERE.  I  see I am idiotic.  I'll try the poem.

17TH.

The poem did not get beyond plovers and lovers.  I am still,  however, harassed by the unauthentic
Muse; if I cared to  encourage her - but I have not the time, and anyway we are at  the vernal
equinox.  It is funny enough, but my pottering  verses are usually made (like the God-gifted
organ voice's)  at the autumnal; and this seems to hold at the Antipodes.   There is here some
odd secret of Nature.  I cannot speak of  politics; we wait and wonder.  It seems (this is
partly a  guess) Ide won't take the C. J. ship, unless the islands are  disarmed; and that
England hesitates and holds off.  By my  own idea, strongly corroborated by Sir George, I am
writing  no more letters.  But I have put as many irons in against  this folly of the disarming
as I could manage.  It did not  reach my ears till nearly too late.  What a risk to take! 
What an expense to incur!  And for how poor a gain!  Apart  from the treachery of it.  My dear
fellow, politics is a vile  and a bungling business.  I used to think meanly of the  plumber;
but how he shines beside the politician!

THURSDAY.

A general, steady advance; Fanny really quite chipper and  jolly - self on the rapid mend,
and with my eye on FORESTS  that are to fall - and my finger on the axe, which wants  stoning.

SATURDAY, 22.

Still all for the best; but I am having a heart-breaking time  over DAVID.  I have nearly all
corrected.  But have to  consider THE HEATHER ON FIRE, THE WOOD BY SILVERMILLS, and  the last
chapter.  They all seem to me off colour; and I am  not fit to better them yet.  No proof has
been sent of the  title, contents, or dedication.

CHAPTER XXIX

25TH APRIL.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - To-day early I sent down to Maben  (Secretary of State) an offer to bring
up people from Malie,  keep them in my house, and bring them down day by day for so  long as
the negotiation should last.  I have a favourable  answer so far.  This I would not have tried,
had not old Sir  George Grey put me on my mettle; 'Never despair,' was his  word; and 'I am
one of the few people who have lived long  enough to see how true that is.'  Well, thereupon
I plunged  in; and the thing may do me great harm, but yet I do not  think so - for I think
jealousy will prevent the trial being  made.  And at any rate it is another chance for this
distracted archipelago of children, sat upon by a clique of  fools.  If, by the gift of God,
I can do - I am allowed to  try to do - and succeed: but no, the prospect is too bright  to
be entertained.

To-day we had a ride down to Tanugamanono, and then by the  new wood paths.  One led us to
a beautiful clearing, with  four native houses; taro, yams, and the like, excellently  planted,
and old Folau - 'the Samoan Jew' - sitting and  whistling there in his new-found and well-deserved
well- being.  It was a good sight to see a Samoan thus before the  world.  Further up, on our
way home, we saw the world clear,  and the wide die of the shadow lying broad; we came but
a  little further, and found in the borders of the bush a  Banyan.  It must have been 150 feet
in height; the trunk, and  its acolytes, occupied a great space; above that, in the  peaks
of the branches, quite a forest of ferns and orchids  were set; and over all again the huge
spread of the boughs  rose against the bright west, and sent their shadow miles to  the eastward.
I have not often seen anything more satisfying  than this vast vegetable.

SUNDAY.

A heavenly day again! the world all dead silence, save when,  from far down below us in the
woods, comes up the crepitation  of the little wooden drum that beats to church.  Scarce a
leaf stirs; only now and again a great, cool gush of air that  makes my papers fly, and is
gone. - The King of Samoa has  refused my intercession between him and Mataafa; and I do not
deny this is a good riddance to me of a difficult business,  in which I might very well have
failed.  What else is to be  done for these silly folks?

MAY 12TH.

And this is where I had got to, before the mail arrives with,  I must say, a real gentlemanly
letter from yourself.  Sir,  that is the sort of letter I want!  Now, I'll make my little 
proposal.  I will accept CHILD'S PLAY and PAN'S PIPES. Then I  want PASTORAL, THE MANSE, THE
ISLET, leaving out if you like  all the prefacial matter and beginning at I. Then the  portrait
of Robert Hunter, beginning 'Whether he was  originally big or little,' and ending 'fearless
and gentle.'   So much for MEM. AND PORTRAITS.  BEGGARS, sections I. and  II., RANDOM MEMORIES
II., and LANTERN BEARERS; I'm agreeable.   These are my selections.  I don't know about PULVIS
ET UMBRA  either, but must leave that to you.  But just what you  please.

About DAVIE I elaborately wrote last time, but still DAVIE is  not done; I am grinding singly
at THE EBB TIDE, as we now  call the FARALLONE; the most of it will go this mail.  About  the
following, let there be no mistake: I will not write the  abstract of KIDNAPPED; write it who
will, I will not.   Boccaccio must have been a clever fellow to write both  argument and story;
I am not, ET JE ME RECUSE.

We call it THE EBB TIDE: A TRIO AND QUARTETTE; but that  secondary name you may strike out
if it seems dull to you.   The book, however, falls in two halves, when the fourth  character
appears.  I am on p. 82 if you want to know, and  expect to finish on I suppose 110 or so;
but it goes slowly,  as you may judge from the fact that this three weeks past, I  have only
struggled from p. 58 to p. 82: twenty-four pages,  ET ENCORE sure to be rewritten, in twenty-one
days.  This is  no prize-taker; not much Waverley Novels about this!

MAY 16TH.

I believe it will be ten chapters of THE EBB TIDE that go to  you; the whole thing should be
completed in I fancy twelve;  and the end will follow punctually next mail.  It is my great
wish that this might get into THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS for  Gordon Browne to illustrate.
For whom, in case he should get  the job, I give you a few notes.  A purao is a tree giving
something like a fig with flowers.  He will find some  photographs of an old marine curiosity
shop in my collection,  which may help him.  Attwater's settlement is to be entirely  overshadowed
everywhere by tall palms; see photographs of  Fakarava: the verandahs of the house are 12 ft.
wide.  Don't  let him forget the Figure Head, for which I have a great use  in the last chapter.
It stands just clear of the palms on  the crest of the beach at the head of the pier; the flag-
staff not far off; the pier he will understand is perhaps  three feet above high water, not
more at any price.  The  sailors of the FARALLONE are to be dressed like white sailors  of
course.  For other things, I remit this excellent artist  to my photographs.

I can't think what to say about the tale, but it seems to me  to go off with a considerable
bang; in fact, to be an  extraordinary work: but whether popular!  Attwater is a no  end of
a courageous attempt, I think you will admit; how far  successful is another affair.  If my
island ain't a thing of  beauty, I'll be damned.  Please observe Wiseman and Wishart;  for
incidental grimness, they strike me as in it.  Also,  kindly observe the Captain and ADAR;
I think that knocks  spots.  In short, as you see, I'm a trifle vainglorious.  But  O, it has
been such a grind!  The devil himself would allow a  man to brag a little after such a crucifixion!
And indeed  I'm only bragging for a change before I return to the darned  thing lying waiting
for me on p. 88, where I last broke down.   I break down at every paragraph, I may observe;
and lie here  and sweat, till I can get one sentence wrung out after  another.  Strange doom;
after having worked so easily for so  long!  Did ever anybody see such a story of four characters?

LATER, 2.30.

It may interest you to know that I am entirely TAPU, and live  apart in my chambers like a
caged beast.  Lloyd has a bad  cold, and Graham and Belle are getting it.  Accordingly, I 
dwell here without the light of any human countenance or  voice, and strap away at THE EBB
TIDE until (as now) I can no  more.  Fanny can still come, but is gone to glory now, or to
her garden.  Page 88 is done, and must be done over again to- morrow, and I confess myself
exhausted.  Pity a man who can't  work on along when he has nothing else on earth to do!  But
I  have ordered Jack, and am going for a ride in the bush  presently to refresh the machine;
then back to a lonely  dinner and durance vile.  I acquiesce in this hand of fate;  for I think
another cold just now would just about do for me.   I have scarce yet recovered the two last.

MAY 18TH.

My progress is crabwise, and I fear only IX. chapters will be  ready for the mail.  I am on
p. 88 again, and with half an  idea of going back again to 85.  We shall see when we come to
read: I used to regard reading as a pleasure in my old light  days.  All the house are down
with the influenza in a body,  except Fanny and me. The influenza appears to become endemic
here, but it has always been a scourge in the islands.   Witness the beginning of THE EBB TIDE,
which was observed  long before the Iffle had distinguished himself at home by  such Napoleonic
conquests.  I am now of course 'quite a  recluse,' and it is very stale, and there is no amanuensis
to  carry me over my mail, to which I shall have to devote many  hours that would have been
more usefully devoted to THE EBB  TIDE.  For you know you can dictate at all hours of the day
and at any odd moment; but to sit down and write with your  red right hand is a very different
matter.

MAY 20TH.

Well, I believe I've about finished the thing, I mean as far  as the mail is to take it.  Chapter
X. is now in Lloyd's  hands for remarks, and extends in its present form to p. 93  incl.  On
the 12th of May, I see by looking back, I was on p.  82, not for the first time; so that I
have made 11 pages in  nine livelong days.  Well! up a high hill he heaved a huge  round stone.
But this Flaubert business must be resisted in  the premises.  Or is it the result of influenza?
God forbid.   Fanny is down now, and the last link that bound me to my  fellow men is severed.
I sit up here, and write, and read  Renan's ORIGINES, which is certainly devilish interesting;
I  read his Nero yesterday, it is very good, O, very good!  But  he is quite a Michelet; the
general views, and such a piece  of character painting, excellent; but his method sheer  lunacy.
You can see him take up the block which he had just  rejected, and make of it the corner-stone:
a maddening way to  deal with authorities; and the result so little like history  that one
almost blames oneself for wasting time.  But the  time is not wasted; the conspectus is always
good, and the  blur that remains on the mind is probably just enough.  I  have been enchanted
with the unveiling of Revelations.  And  how picturesque that return of the false Nero!  The
Apostle  John is rather discredited.  And to think how one had read  the thing so often, and
never understood the attacks upon St.  Paul!  I remember when I was a child, and we came to
the Four  Beasts that were all over eyes, the sickening terror with  which I was filled.  If
that was Heaven, what, in the name of  Davy Jones and the aboriginal night-mare, could Hell
be?   Take it for all in all, L'ANTECHRIST is worth reading.  The  HISTOIRE D'ISRAEL did not
surprise me much; I had read those  Hebrew sources with more intelligence than the New Testament,
and was quite prepared to admire Ahab and Jezebel, etc.   Indeed, Ahab has always been rather
a hero of mine; I mean  since the years of discretion.

MAY 21ST.

And here I am back again on p. 85! the last chapter demanding  an entire revision, which accordingly
it is to get.  And  where my mail is to come in, God knows!  This forced,  violent, alembicated
style is most abhorrent to me; it can't  be helped; the note was struck years ago on the JANET
NICOLL,  and has to be maintained somehow; and I can only hope the  intrinsic horror and pathos,
and a kind of fierce glow of  colour there is to it, and the surely remarkable wealth of  striking
incident, may guide our little shallop into port.   If Gordon Browne is to get it, he should
see the Brassey  photographs of Papeete.  But mind, the three waifs were never  in the town;
only on the beach and in the calaboose.  By  George, but it's a good thing to illustrate for
a man like  that!  Fanny is all right again.  False alarm!  I was down  yesterday afternoon
at Paupata, and heard much growling of  war, and the delightful news that the C. J. and the
President  are going to run away from Mulinuu and take refuge in the  Tivoli hotel.

23RD.  MAIL DAY.

And lots of pleasures before me, no doubt!  Among others the  attempt to extract an answer
from - before mail time, which  may succeed or may not.

THE EBB TIDE, all but (I take it) fifteen pages, is now in  your hands - possibly only about
eleven pp.  It is hard to  say.  But there it is, and you can do your best with it.   Personally,
I believe I would in this case make even a  sacrifice to get Gordon Browne and copious illustration.
I  guess in ten days I shall have finished with it; then I go  next to D. BALFOUR, and get
the proofs ready: a nasty job for  me, as you know.  And then?  Well, perhaps I'll take a go
at  the family history.  I think that will be wise, as I am so  much off work.  And then, I
suppose, WEIR OF HERMISTON, but  it may be anything.  I am discontented with THE EBB TIDE,
naturally; there seems such a veil of words over it; and I  like more and more naked writing;
and yet sometimes one has a  longing for full colour and there comes the veil again.  THE 
YOUNG CHEVALIER is in very full colour, and I fear it for  that reason. - Ever, R. L S.

CHAPTER XXX

29TH MAY.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Still grinding at Chap. XI.  I began many  days ago on p. 93, and am still
on p. 93, which is  exhilarating, but the thing takes shape all the same and  should make a
pretty lively chapter for an end of it.  For  XII. is only a footnote AD EXPLICANDUM.

JUNE THE 1ST.

Back on p. 93.  I was on 100 yesterday, but read it over and  condemned it.

10 A. M.

I have worked up again to 97, but how?  The deuce fly away  with literature, for the basest
sport in creation.  But it's  got to come straight! and if possible, so that I may finish 
D. BALFOUR in time for the same mail.  What a getting  upstairs!  This is Flaubert outdone.
Belle, Graham, and  Lloyd leave to-day on a malaga down the coast; to be absent a  week or
so: this leaves Fanny, me, and -, who seems a nice,  kindly fellow.

JUNE 2ND.

I am nearly dead with dyspepsia, over-smoking, and  unremunerative overwork.  Last night, I
went to bed by seven;  woke up again about ten for a minute to find myself light- headed and
altogether off my legs; went to sleep again, and  woke this morning fairly fit.  I have crippled
on to p. 101,  but I haven't read it yet, so do not boast.  What kills me is  the frame of
mind of one of the characters; I cannot get it  through.  Of course that does not interfere
with my total  inability to write; so that yesterday I was a living half- hour upon a single
clause and have a gallery of variants that  would surprise you.  And this sort of trouble (which
I cannot  avoid) unfortunately produces nothing when done but  alembication and the far-fetched.
Well, read it with mercy!

8 A.M.

Going to bed.  Have read it, and believe the chapter  practically done at last.  But lord!
it has been a business.

JULY 3RD, 8.15.

The draft is finished, the end of Chapter II. and the tale,  and I have only eight pages WIEDERZUARBEITEN.
This is just a  cry of joy in passing.

10.30.

Knocked out of time.  Did 101 and 102.  Alas, no more to-day,  as I have to go down town to
a meeting.  Just as well though,  as my thumb is about done up.

SUNDAY, JUNE 4TH.

Now for a little snippet of my life.  Yesterday, 12.30, in a  heavenly day of sun and trade,
I mounted my horse and set  off.  A boy opens my gate for me.  'Sleep and long life!  A  blessing
on your journey,' says he.  And I reply 'Sleep, long  life!  A blessing on the house!'  Then
on, down the lime  lane, a rugged, narrow, winding way, that seems almost as if  it was leading
you into Lyonesse, and you might see the head  and shoulders of a giant looking in.  At the
corner of the  road I meet the inspector of taxes, and hold a diplomatic  interview with him;
he wants me to pay taxes on the new  house; I am informed I should not till next year; and
we  part, RE INFECTA, he promising to bring me decisions, I  assuring him that, if I find any
favouritism, he will find me  the most recalcitrant tax-payer on the island.  Then I have a
talk with an old servant by the wayside.  A little further I  pass two children coming up.
'Love!' say I; 'are you two  chiefly-proceeding inland?' and they say, 'Love! yes!' and  the
interesting ceremony is finished.  Down to the post  office, where I find Vitrolles and (Heaven
reward you!) the  White Book, just arrived per UPOLU, having gone the wrong way  round, by
Australia; also six copies of ISLAND NIGHTS'  ENTERTAINMENTS.  Some of Weatherall's illustrations
are very  clever; but O Lord! the lagoon!  I did say it was 'shallow,'  but, O dear, not so
shallow as that a man could stand up in  it!  I had still an hour to wait for my meeting, so
Postmaster Davis let me sit down in his room and I had a  bottle of beer in, and read A GENTLEMAN
OF FRANCE.  Have you  seen it coming out in LONGMAN'S?  My dear Colvin! 'tis the  most exquisite
pleasure; a real chivalrous yarn, like the  Dumas' and yet unlike.  Thereafter to the meeting
of the five  newspaper proprietors.  Business transacted, I have to gallop  home and find the
boys waiting to be paid at the doorstep.

MONDAY, 5TH.

Yesterday, Sunday, the Rev. Dr. Browne, secretary to the  Wesleyan Mission, and the man who
made the war in the Western  Islands and was tried for his life in Fiji, came up, and we  had
a long, important talk about Samoa.  O, if I could only  talk to the home men!  But what would
it matter? none of them  know, none of them care.  If we could only have Macgregor  here with
his schooner, you would hear of no more troubles in  Samoa.  That is what we want; a man that
knows and likes the  natives, QUI PAYE DE SA PERSONNE, AND is not afraid of  hanging when necessary.
We don't want bland Swedish humbugs,  and fussy, fostering German barons.  That way the maelstrom
lies, and we shall soon be in it.

I have to-day written 103 and 104, all perfectly wrong, and  shall have to rewrite them.  This
tale is devilish, and  Chapter XI. the worst of the lot.  The truth is of course  that I am
wholly worked out; but it's nearly done, and shall  go somehow according to promise.  I go
against all my gods,  and say it is NOT WORTH WHILE to massacre yourself over the  last few
pages of a rancid yarn, that the reviewers will  quite justly tear to bits.  As for D.B., no
hope, I fear,  this mail, but we'll see what the afternoon does for me.

4.15.

Well, it's done.  Those tragic 16 pp. are at last finished,  and I have put away thirty-two
pages of chips, and have spent  thirteen days about as nearly in Hell as a man could expect
to live through.  It's done, and of course it ain't worth  while, and who cares?  There it
is, and about as grim a tale  as was ever written, and as grimy, and as hateful.

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF J. L. HUISH, BORN 1856, AT HACKNEY, LONDON, Accidentally killed upon
this Island, 10th September, 1889.

TUESDAY, 6.

I am exulting to do nothing.  It pours with rain from the  westward, very unusual kind of weather;
I was standing out on  the little verandah in front of my room this morning, and  there went
through me or over me a wave of extraordinary and  apparently baseless emotion.  I literally
staggered.  And  then the explanation came, and I knew I had found a frame of  mind and body
that belonged to Scotland, and particularly to  the neighbourhood of Callander.  Very odd these
identities of  sensation, and the world of connotations implied; highland  huts, and peat smoke,
and the brown, swirling rivers, and wet  clothes, and whiskey, and the romance of the past,
and that  indescribable bite of the whole thing at a man's heart, which  is - or rather lies
at the bottom of - a story.

I don't know if you are a Barbey d'Aurevilly-an.  I am.  I  have a great delight in his Norman
stories.  Do you know the  CHEVALIER DES TOUCHES and L'ENSORCELEE?  They are admirable,  they
reek of the soil and the past.  But I was rather  thinking just now of LE RIDEAU CRAMOISI,
and its adorable  setting of the stopped coach, the dark street, the home-going  in the inn
yard, and the red blind illuminated.  Without  doubt, THERE was an identity of sensation; one
of those  conjunctions in life that had filled Barbey full to the brim,  and permanently bent
his memory.

I wonder exceedingly if I have done anything at all good; and  who can tell me? and why should
I wish to know?  In so little  a while, I, and the English language, and the bones of my  descendants,
will have ceased to be a memory!  And yet - and  yet - one would like to leave an image for
a few years upon  men's minds - for fun.  This is a very dark frame of mind,  consequent on
overwork and the conclusion of the excruciating  EBB TIDE.  Adieu.

What do you suppose should be done with THE EBB TIDE?  It  would make a volume of 200 pp.;
on the other hand, I might  likely have some more stories soon: THE OWL, DEATH IN THE  POT,
THE SLEEPER AWAKENED; all these are possible.  THE OWL  might be half as long; THE SLEEPER
AWAKENED, ditto; DEATH IN  THE POT a deal shorter, I believe.  Then there's the GO- BETWEEN,
which is not impossible altogether.  THE OWL, THE  SLEEPER AWAKENED, and the GO-BETWEEN end
reasonably well;  DEATH IN THE POT is an ungodly massacre.  O, well, THE OWL  only ends well
in so far as some lovers come together, and  nobody is killed at the moment, but you know they
are all  doomed, they are Chouan fellows.

FRIDAY, 9TH.

Well, the mail is in; no Blue-book, depressing letter from  C.; a long, amusing ramble from
my mother; vast masses of  Romeike; they ARE going to war now; and what will that lead  to?
and what has driven, them to it but the persistent  misconduct of these two officials?  I know
I ought to rewrite  the end of this bluidy EBB TIDE: well, I can't.  CEST PLUS  FORT QUE MOI;
it has to go the way it is, and be jowned to  it!  From what I make out of the reviews, I think
it would be  better not to republish THE EBB TIDE: but keep it for other  tales, if they should
turn up.  Very amusing how the reviews  pick out one story and damn the rest I and it is always
a  different one.  Be sure you send me the article from LE  TEMPS.

SATURDAY, 17TH.

Since I wrote this last, I have written a whole chapter of my  grandfather, and read it to-night;
it was on the whole much  appreciated, and I kind of hope it ain't bad myself.  'Tis a  third
writing, but it wants a fourth.  By next mail, I  believe I might send you 3 chapters.  That
is to say FAMILY  ANNALS, THE SERVICE OF THE NORTHERN LIGHTS, and THE BUILDING  OF THE BELL
ROCK.  Possibly even 4 - A HOUSEFUL OF BOYS.  I  could finish my grandfather very easy now;
my father and  Uncle Alan stop the way.  I propose to call the book:  NORTHERN LIGHTS: MEMOIRS
OF A FAMILY of ENGINEERS.  I tell  you, it is going to be a good book.  My idea in sending
Ms.  would be to get it set up; two proofs to me, one to Professor  Swan, Ardchapel, Helensburgh
- mark it private and  confidential - one to yourself; and come on with criticisms!   But I'll
have to see.  The total plan of the book is this -

i. Domestic Annals. ii. The Service of the Northern Lights. iii. The Building of the Bell Rock.
iv. A Houseful of Boys (or, 'The Family in Baxter's Place). v. Education of an Engineer. vi.
The Grandfather. vii. Alan Stevenson. viii. Thomas Stevenson.

There will be an Introduction 'The Surname of Stevenson'  which has proved a mighty queer subject
of inquiry.  But,  Lord! if I were among libraries.

SUNDAY, 18TH.

I shall put in this envelope the end of the ever-to-be- execrated EBB TIDE, or Stevenson's
Blooming Error.  Also, a  paper apart for DAVID BALFOUR.  The slips must go in another  enclosure,
I suspect, owing to their beastly bulk.  Anyway,  there are two pieces of work off my mind,
and though I could  wish I had rewritten a little more of DAVID, yet it was  plainly to be
seen it was impossible.  All the points  indicated by you have been brought out; but to rewrite
the  end, in my present state of over-exhaustion and fiction -  phobia, would have been madness;
and I let it go as it stood.   My grandfather is good enough for me, these days. I do not 
work any less; on the whole, if anything, a little more.  But  it is different.

The slips go to you in four packets; I hope they are what  they should be, but do not think
so.  I am at a pitch of  discontent with fiction in all its form - or my forms - that  prevents
me being able to be even interested.  I have had to  stop all drink; smoking I am trying to
stop also.  It annoys  me dreadfully: and yet if I take a glass of claret, - I have  a headache
the next day!  O, and a good headache too; none of  your trifles.

Well, sir, here's to you, and farewell. - Yours ever. R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXXI

SATURDAY, 24TH (?) JUNE.

MY DEAR COLVIN - Yesterday morning, after a day of absolute  temperance, I awoke to the worst
headache I had had yet.   Accordingly, temperance was said farewell to, quinine  instituted,
and I believe my pains are soon to be over.  We  wait, with a kind of sighing impatience, for
war to be  declared, or to blow finally off, living in the meanwhile in  a kind of children's
hour of firelight and shadow and  preposterous tales; the king seen at night galloping up our
road upon unknown errands and covering his face as he passes  our cook; Mataafa daily surrounded
(when he awakes) with  fresh 'white man's boxes' (query, ammunition?) and professing  to be
quite ignorant of where they come from; marches of  bodies of men across the island; concealment
of ditto in the  bush; the coming on and off of different chiefs; and such a  mass of ravelment
and rag-tag as the devil himself could not  unwind.

WEDNESDAY, 28TH JUNE.

Yesterday it rained with but little intermission, but I was  jealous of news.  Graham and I
got into the saddle about 1  o'clock and off down to town.  In town, there was nothing but
rumours going; in the night drums had been beat, the men had  run to arms on Mulinuu from as
far as Vaiala, and the alarm  proved false.  There were no signs of any gathering in Apia 
proper, and the Secretary of State had no news to give.  I  believed him, too, for we are brither
Scots.  Then the  temptation came upon me strong to go on to the ford and see  the Mataafa
villages, where we heard there was more afoot.   Off we rode.  When we came to Vaimusu, the
houses were very  full of men, but all seemingly unarmed.  Immediately beyond  is that river
over which we passed in our scamper with Lady  Jersey; it was all solitary.  Three hundred
yards beyond is a  second ford; and there - I came face to face with war.  Under  the trees
on the further bank sat a picket of seven men with  Winchesters; their faces bright, their
eyes ardent.  As we  came up, they did not speak or move; only their eyes followed  us.  The
horses drank, and we passed the ford.  'Talofa!' I  said, and the commandant of the picket
said 'Talofa'; and  then, when we were almost by, remembered himself and asked  where we were
going.  'To Faamuina,' I said, and we rode on.   Every house by the wayside was crowded with
armed men.  There  was the European house of a Chinaman on the right-hand side:  a flag of
truce flying over the gate - indeed we saw three of  these in what little way we penetrated
into Mataafa's lines -  all the foreigners trying to protect their goods; and the  Chinaman's
verandah overflowed with men and girls and  Winchesters.  By the way we met a party of about
ten or a  dozen marching with their guns and cartridge-belts, and the  cheerful alacrity and
brightness of their looks set my head  turning with envy and sympathy.  Arrived at Vaiusu,
the  houses about the MALAE (village green) were thronged with  men, all armed.  On the outside
of the council-house (which  was all full within) there stood an orator; he had his back  turned
to his audience, and seemed to address the world at  large; all the time we were there his
strong voice continued  unabated, and I heard snatches of political wisdom rising and  falling.

The house of Faamuina stands on a knoll in the MALAE.   Thither we mounted, a boy ran out and
took our horses, and we  went in.  Faamuina was there himself, his wife Pelepa, three  other
chiefs, and some attendants; and here again was this  exulting spectacle as of people on their
marriage day.   Faamuina (when I last saw him) was an elderly, limping  gentleman, with much
of the debility of age; it was a bright- eyed boy that greeted me; the lady was no less excited;
all  had cartridge-belts.  We stayed but a little while to smoke a  sului; I would not have
kava made, as I thought my escapade  was already dangerous (perhaps even blameworthy) enough.
On  the way back, we were much greeted, and on coming to the  ford, the commandant came and
asked me if there were many on  the other side.  'Very many,' said I; not that I knew, but
I  would not lead them on the ice.  'That is well!' said he, and  the little picket laughed
aloud as we splashed into the  river.  We returned to Apia, through Apia, and out to  windward
as far as Vaiala, where the word went that the men  of the Vaimauga had assembled.  We met
two boys carrying  pigs, and saw six young men busy cooking in a cook-house; but  no sign of
an assembly; no arms, no blackened faces.  I  forgot!  As we turned to leave Faamuina's, there
ran forward  a man with his face blackened, and the back of his lava-lava  girded up so as
to show his tattooed hips naked; he leaped  before us, cut a wonderful caper, and flung his
knife high in  the air, and caught it.  It was strangely savage and  fantastic and high-spirited.
I have seen a child doing the  same antics long before in a dance, so that it is plainly an
ACCEPTED SOLEMNITY.  I should say that for weeks the children  have been playing with spears.
Up by the plantation I took a  short cut, which shall never be repeated, through grass and
weeds over the horses' heads and among rolling stones; I  thought we should have left a horse
there, but fortune  favoured us.  So home, a little before six, in a dashing  squall of rain,
to a bowl of kava and dinner.  But the  impression on our minds was extraordinary; the sight
of that  picket at the ford, and those ardent, happy faces whirls in  my head; the old aboriginal
awoke in both of us and knickered  like a stallion.

It is dreadful to think that I must sit apart here and do  nothing; I do not know if I can
stand it out.  But you see, I  may be of use to these poor people, if I keep quiet, and if
I  threw myself in, I should have a bad job of it to save  myself.  There; I have written this
to you; and it is still  but 7.30 in the day, and the sun only about one hour up; can  I go
back to my old grandpapa, and men sitting with  Winchesters in my mind's eye?

THURSDAY 29TH.

I had two priests to luncheon yesterday: the Bishop and Pere  Remy.  They were very pleasant,
and quite clean too, which  has been known sometimes not to be - even with bishops.   Monseigneur
is not unimposing; with his white beard and his  violet girdle he looks splendidly episcopal,
and when our  three waiting lads came up one after another and kneeled  before him in the big
hall, and kissed his ring, it did me  good for a piece of pageantry.  Remy is very engaging;
he is  a little, nervous, eager man, like a governess, and brimful  of laughter and small jokes.
So is the bishop indeed, and  our luncheon party went off merrily - far more merrily than 
many a German spread, though with so much less liquor.  One  trait was delicious.  With a complete
ignorance of the  Protestant that I would scarce have imagined, he related to  us (as news)
little stories from the gospels, and got the  names all wrong!  His comments were delicious,
and to our  ears a thought irreverent.  'AH! IL CONNAISSAIT SON MONDE,  ALLEZ!'  'IL ETAIT
FIN, NOTRE SEIGNEUR!' etc.

FRIDAY.

Down with Fanny and Belle, to lunch at the International.   Heard there about the huge folly
of the hour, all the Mulinuu  ammunition having been yesterday marched openly to vaults in
Matafele; and this morning, on a cry of protest from the  whites, openly and humiliatingly
disinterred and marched back  again.  People spoke of it with a kind of shrill note that  did
not quite satisfy me.  They seemed not quite well at  ease.  Luncheon over, we rode out on
the Malie road.  All was  quiet in Vaiusu, and when we got to the second ford, alas!  there
was no picket - which was just what Belle had come to  sketch.  On through quite empty roads;
the houses deserted,  never a gun to be seen; and at last a drum and a penny  whistle playing
in Vaiusu, and a cricket match on the MALAE!   Went up to Faamuina's; he is a trifle uneasy,
though he gives  us kava.  I cannot see what ails him, then it appears that he  has an engagement
with the Chief Justice at half-past two to  sell a piece of land.  Is this the reason why war
has  disappeared?  We ride back, stopping to sketch here and there  the fords, a flag of truce,
etc.  I ride on to Public Hall  Committee and pass an hour with my committees very heavily.
To the hotel to dinner, then to the ball, and home by eleven,  very tired.  At the ball I heard
some news, of how the chief  of Letonu said that I was the source of all this trouble, and
should be punished, and my family as well.  This, and the  rudeness of the man at the ford
of the Gase-gase, looks but  ill; I should have said that Faamuina, as he approached the  first
ford, was spoken to by a girl, and immediately said  goodbye and plunged into the bush; the
girl had told him  there was a war party out from Mulinuu; and a little further  on, as we
stopped to sketch a flag of truce, the beating of  drums and the sound of a bugle from that
direction startled  us.  But we saw nothing, and I believe Mulinuu is (at least  at present)
incapable of any act of offence.  One good job,  these threats to my home and family take away
all my childish  temptation to go out and fight.  Our force must be here, to  protect ourselves.
I see panic rising among the whites; I  hear the shrill note of it in their voices, and they
talk  already about a refuge on the war ships.  There are two here,  both German; and the ORLANDO
is expected presently.

SUNDAY 9TH JULY.

Well, the war has at last begun.  For four or five days, Apia  has been filled by these poor
children with their faces  blacked, and the red handkerchief about their brows, that  makes
the Malietoa uniform, and the boats have been coming in  from the windward, some of them 50
strong, with a drum and a  bugle on board - the bugle always ill-played - and a sort of  jester
leaping and capering on the sparred nose of the boat,  and the whole crew uttering from time
to time a kind of  menacing ululation.  Friday they marched out to the bush; and  yesterday
morning we heard that some had returned to their  houses for the night, as they found it 'so
uncomfortable.'   After dinner a messenger came up to me with a note, that the  wounded were
arriving at the Mission House.  Fanny, Lloyd and  I saddled and rode off with a lantern; it
was a fine starry  night, though pretty cold.  We left the lantern at Tanuga- manono, and then
down in the starlight.  I found Apia, and  myself, in a strange state of flusteration; my own
excitement  was gloomy and (I may say) truculent; others appeared  imbecile; some sullen. 
The best place in the whole town was  the hospital.  A longish frame-house it was, with a big
table  in the middle for operations, and ten Samoans, each with an  average of four sympathisers,
stretched along the walls.   Clarke was there, steady as a die; Miss Large, little  spectacled
angel, showed herself a real trump; the nice,  clean, German orderlies in their white uniforms
looked and  meant business.  (I hear a fine story of Miss Large - a cast- iron teetotaller
- going to the public-house for a bottle of  brandy.)

The doctors were not there when I arrived; but presently it  was observed that one of the men
was going cold.  He was a  magnificent Samoan, very dark, with a noble aquiline  countenance,
like an Arab, I suppose, and was surrounded by  seven people, fondling his limbs as he lay:
he was shot  through both lungs.  And an orderly was sent to the town for  the (German naval)
doctors, who were dining there.  Meantime  I found an errand of my own.  Both Clarke and Miss
Large  expressed a wish to have the public hall, of which I am  chairman, and I set off down
town, and woke people out of  their beds, and got a committee together, and (with a great 
deal of difficulty from one man, whom we finally overwhelmed)  got the public hall for them.
Bar the one man, the committee  was splendid, and agreed in a moment to share the expense if
the shareholders object.  Back to the hospital about 11.30;  found the German doctors there.
Two men were going now, one  that was shot in the bowels - he was dying rather hard, in a 
gloomy stupor of pain and laudanum, silent, with contorted  face.  The chief, shot through
the lungs, was lying on one  side, awaiting the last angel; his family held his hands and 
legs; they were all speechless, only one woman suddenly  clasped his knee, and 'keened' for
the inside of five  seconds, and fell silent again.  Went home, and to bed about  two A.M.
What actually passed seems undiscoverable; but the  Mataafas were surely driven back out of
Vaitele; that is a  blow to them, and the resistance was far greater than had  been anticipated
- which is a blow to the Laupepas.  All  seems to indicate a long and bloody war.

Frank's house in Mulinuu was likewise filled with wounded;  many dead bodies were brought in;
I hear with certainty of  five, wrapped in mats; and a pastor goes to-morrow to the  field
to bring others.  The Laupepas brought in eleven heads  to Mulinuu, and to the great horror
and consternation of the  native mind, one proved to be a girl, and was identified as  that
of a Taupou - or Maid of the Village - from Savaii.  I  hear this morning, with great relief,
that it has been  returned to Malie, wrapped in the most costly silk  handkerchiefs, and with
an apologetic embassy.  This could  easily happen.  The girl was of course attending on her
father with ammunition, and got shot; her hair was cut short  to make her father's war head-dress
- even as our own Sina's  is at this moment; and the decollator was probably, in his  red flurry
of fight, wholly unconscious of her sex.  I am  sorry for him in the future; he must make up
his mind to many  bitter jests - perhaps to vengeance.  But what an end to one  chosen for
her beauty and, in the time of peace, watched over  by trusty crones and hunchbacks!

EVENING.

Can I write or not?  I played lawn tennis in the morning, and  after lunch down with Graham
to Apia.  Ulu, he that was shot  in the lungs, still lives; he that was shot in the bowels
is  gone to his fathers, poor, fierce child!  I was able to be of  some very small help, and
in the way of helping myself to  information, to prove myself a mere gazer at meteors.  But
there seems no doubt the Mataafas for the time are scattered;  the most of our friends are
involved in this disaster, and  Mataafa himself - who might have swept the islands a few  months
ago - for him to fall so poorly, doubles my regret.   They say the Taupou had a gun and fired;
probably an excuse  manufactured EX POST FACTO.  I go down to-morrow at 12, to  stay the afternoon,
and help Miss Large.  In the hospital to- day, when I first entered it, there were no attendants;
only  the wounded and their friends, all equally sleeping and their  heads poised upon the
wooden pillows.  There is a pretty  enough boy there, slightly wounded, whose fate is to be
envied: two girls, and one of the most beautiful, with  beaming eyes, tend him and sleep upon
his pillow.  In the  other corner, another young man, very patient and brave, lies  wholly
deserted.  Yet he seems to me far the better of the  two; but not so pretty!  Heavens, what
a difference that  makes; in our not very well proportioned bodies and our  finely hideous
faces, the 1-32nd - rather the 1-64th - this  way or that!  Sixteen heads in all at Mulinuu.
I am so stiff  I can scarce move without a howl.

MONDAY, 10TH.

Some news that Mataafa is gone to Savaii by way of Manono;  this may mean a great deal more
warfaring, and no great  issue.  (When Sosimo came in this morning with my breakfast  he had
to lift me up.  It is no joke to play lawn tennis  after carrying your right arm in a sling
so many years.)   What a hard, unjust business this is!  On the 28th, if  Mataafa had moved,
he could have still swept Mulinuu.  He  waited, and I fear he is now only the stick of a rocket.

WEDNESDAY, 12TH.

No more political news; but many rumours.  The government  troops are off to Manono; no word
of Mataafa.  O, there is a  passage in my mother's letter which puzzles me as to a date.  
Is it next Christmas you are coming? or the Christmas after?   This is most important, and
must be understood at once.  If  it is next Christmas, I could not go to Ceylon, for lack of
gold, and you would have to adopt one of the following  alternatives: 1st, either come straight
on here and pass a  month with us; 'tis the rainy season, but we have often  lovely weather.
Or (2nd) come to Hawaii and I will meet you  there.  Hawaii is only a week's sail from S. Francisco,
making only about sixteen days on the heaving ocean; and the  steamers run once a fortnight,
so that you could turn round;  and you could thus pass a day or two in the States - a  fortnight
even - and still see me.  But I have sworn to take  no further excursions till I have money
saved to pay for  them; and to go to Ceylon and back would be torture unless I  had a lot.
You must answer this at once, please; so that I  may know what to do.  We would dearly like
you to come on  here.  I'll tell you how it can be done; I can come up and  meet you at Hawaii,
and if you had at all got over your sea- sickness, I could just come on board and we could
return  together to Samoa, and you could have a month of our life  here, which I believe you
could not help liking.  Our horses  are the devil, of course, miserable screws, and some of
them  a little vicious.  I had a dreadful fright - the passage in  my mother's letter is recrossed
and I see it says the end of  /94: so much the better, then; but I would like to submit to
you my alternative plan.  I could meet you at Hawaii, and  reconduct you to Hawaii, so that
we could have a full six  weeks together and I believe a little over, and you would see  this
place of mine, and have a sniff of native life, native  foods, native houses - and perhaps
be in time to see the  German flag raised, who knows? - and we could generally yarn  for all
we were worth.  I should like you to see Vailima; and  I should be curious to know how the
climate affected you.  It  is quite hit or miss; it suits me, it suits Graham, it suits  all
our family; others it does not suit at all.  It is either  gold or poison.  I rise at six,
the rest at seven; lunch is  at 12; at five we go to lawn tennis till dinner at six; and  to
roost early.

A man brought in a head to Mulinuu in great glory; they  washed the black paint off, and behold!
it was his brother.   When I last heard he was sitting in his house, with the head  upon his
lap, and weeping.  Barbarous war is an ugly  business; but I believe the civilised is fully
uglier; but  Lord! what fun!

I should say we now have definite news that there are THREE  women's heads; it was difficult
to get it out of the natives,  who are all ashamed, and the women all in terror of  reprisals.
Nothing has been done to punish or disgrace these  hateful innovators.  It was a false report
that the head had  been returned.

THURSDAY, 13TH,

Mataafa driven away from Savaii.  I cannot write about this,  and do not know what should be
the end of it.

MONDAY, 17TH.

Haggard and Ahrens (a German clerk) to lunch yesterday.   There is no real certain news yet:
I must say, no man could  SWEAR to any result; but the sky looks horribly black for  Mataafa
and so many of our friends along with him.  The thing  has an abominable, a beastly, nightmare
interest.  But it's  wonderful generally how little one cares about the wounded;  hospital
sights, etc.; things that used to murder me.  I was  far more struck with the excellent way
in which things were  managed; as if it had been a peep-show; I held some of the  things at
an operation, and did not care a dump.

TUESDAY, 18TH.

Sunday came the KATOOMBA, Captain Bickford, C.M.G.   Yesterday, Graham and I went down to call,
and find he has  orders to suppress Mataafa at once, and has to go down to-day  before daybreak
to Manono.  He is a very capable, energetic  man; if he had only come ten days ago, all this
would have  gone by; but now the questions are thick and difficult.  (1)  Will Mataafa surrender?
(2) Will his people allow themselves  to be disarmed?  (3) What will happen to them if they
do?   (4) What will any of them believe after former deceptions?   The three consuls were scampering
on horseback to Leulumoega  to the King; no Cusack-Smith, without whose accession I could 
not send a letter to Mataafa.  I rode up here, wrote my  letter in the sweat of the concordance
and with the able- bodied help of Lloyd - and dined.  Then down in continual  showers and pitchy
darkness, and to Cusack-Smith's; not re- returned.  Back to the inn for my horse, and to C.-S.'s,
when  I find him just returned and he accepts my letter.  Thence  home, by 12.30, jolly tired
and wet.  And to-day have been in  a crispation of energy and ill-temper, raking my wretched
mail together.  It is a hateful business, waiting for the  news; it may come to a fearful massacre
yet. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXXII

AUGUST, 1893.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Quite impossible to write.  Your letter is  due to-day; a nasty, rainy-like
morning with huge blue  clouds, and a huge indigo shadow on the sea, and my lamp  still burning
at near 7.  Let me humbly give you news.  Fanny  seems on the whole the most, or the only,
powerful member of  the family; for some days she has been the Flower of the  Flock.  Belle
is begging for quinine.  Lloyd and Graham have  both been down with 'belly belong him' (Black
Boy speech).   As for me, I have to lay aside my lawn tennis, having (as was  to be expected)
had a smart but eminently brief hemorrhage.   I am also on the quinine flask.  I have been
re-casting the  beginning of the HANGING JUDGE or WEIR OF HERMISTON; then I  have been cobbling
on my grandfather, whose last chapter  (there are only to be four) is in the form of pieces
of  paper, a huge welter of inconsequence, and that glimmer of  faith (or hope) which one learns
at this trade, that somehow  and some time, by perpetual staring and glowering and  rewriting,
order will emerge.  It is indeed a queer hope;  there is one piece for instance that I want
in - I cannot put  it one place for a good reason - I cannot put it another for  a better -
and every time I look at it, I turn sick and put  the Ms. away.

Well, your letter hasn't come, and a number of others are  missing.  It looks as if a mail-bag
had gone on, so I'll  blame nobody, and proceed to business.

It looks as if I was going to send you the first three  chapters of my Grandfather. . . . 
If they were set up, it  would be that much anxiety off my mind.  I have a strange  feeling
of responsibility, as if I had my ancestors' SOULS in  my charge, and might miscarry with them.

There's a lot of work gone into it, and a lot more is needed.   Still Chapter I. seems about
right to me, and much of Chapter  II.  Chapter III. I know nothing of, as I told you.  And
Chapter IV. is at present all ends and beginnings; but it can  be pulled together.

This is all I have been able to screw up to you for this  month, and I may add that it is not
only more than you  deserve, but just about more than I was equal to.  I have  been and am
entirely useless; just able to tinker at my  Grandfather.  The three chapters - perhaps also
a little of  the fourth - will come home to you next mail by the hand of  my cousin Graham
Balfour, a very nice fellow whom I recommend  to you warmly - and whom I think you will like.
This will  give you time to consider my various and distracted schemes.

All our wars are over in the meantime, to begin again as soon  as the war-ships leave.  Adieu.

R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXXIII

23RD AUGUST.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Your pleasing letter RE THE EBB TIDE, to  hand.  I propose, if it be not
too late, to delete Lloyd's  name.  He has nothing to do with the last half.  The first we
wrote together, as the beginning of a long yarn.  The second  is entirely mine; and I think
it rather unfair on the young  man to couple his name with so infamous a work.  Above all,
as you had not read the two last chapters, which seem to me  the most ugly and cynical of all.

You will see that I am not in a good humour; and I am not.   It is not because of your letter,
but because of the  complicated miseries that surround me and that I choose to  say nothing
of.  Life is not all Beer and Skittles.  The  inherent tragedy of things works itself out from
white to  black and blacker, and the poor things of a day look ruefully  on.  Does it shake
my cast-iron faith?  I cannot say it does.   I believe in an ultimate decency of things; ay,
and if I woke  in hell, should still believe it!  But it is hard walking,  and I can see my
own share in the missteps, and can bow my  head to the result, like an old, stern, unhappy
devil of a  Norseman, as my ultimate character is. . . .

Well, IL FAUT CULTIVER SON JARDIN.  That last expression of  poor, unhappy human wisdom I take
to my heart and go to ST.  IVES.

24th AUG.

And did, and worked about 2 hours and got to sleep ultimately  and 'a' the clouds has blawn
away.'  'Be sure we'll have some  pleisand weather, When a' the clouds (storms?) has blawn
(gone?) away.'  Verses that have a quite inexplicable  attraction for me, and I believe had
for Burns.  They have no  merit, but are somehow good.  I am now in a most excellent  humour.

I am deep in ST. IVES which, I believe, will be the next  novel done.  But it is to be clearly
understood that I  promise nothing, and may throw in your face the very last  thing you expect
- or I expect.  ST. IVES will (to my mind)  not be wholly bad.  It is written in rather a funny
style; a  little stilted and left-handed; the style of St. Ives; also,  to some extent, the
style of R. L. S. dictating.  ST.  IVES  is unintellectual and except as an adventure novel,
dull.   But the adventures seem to me sound and pretty probable; and  it is a love story. 
Speed his wings!

SUNDAY NIGHT.

DE COEUR UN PEU PLUS DISPOS, MONSIEUR ET CHER CONFRERE, JE ME  REMETS A VOUS ECRIRE.  ST. IVES
is now in the 5th chapter  copying; in the 14th chapter of the dictated draft.  I do not  believe
I shall end by disliking it.

MONDAY.

Well, here goes again for the news.  Fanny is VERY WELL  indeed, and in good spirits; I am
in good spirits but not  VERY well; Lloyd is in good spirits and very well; Belle has  a real
good fever which has put her pipe out wholly.  Graham  goes back this mail.  He takes with
him three chapters of THE  FAMILY, and is to go to you as soon as he can.  He cannot be  much
the master of his movements, but you grip him when you  can and get all you can from him, as
he has lived about six  months with us and he can tell you just what is true and what  is not
- and not the dreams of dear old Ross.  He is a good  fellow, is he not?

Since you rather revise your views of THE EBB TIDE, I think  Lloyd's name might stick, but
I'll leave it to you.  I'll  tell you just how it stands.  Up to the discovery of the  champagne,
the tale was all planned between us and drafted by  Lloyd; from that moment he has had nothing
to do with it  except talking it over.  For we changed our plan, gave up the  projected Monte
Cristo, and cut it down for a short story.   My jmpression - (I beg your pardon - this is a
local joke - a  firm here had on its beer labels, 'sole jmporters') - is that  it will never
be popular, but might make a little SUCCES DE  SCANDALE.  However, I'm done with it now, and
not sorry, and  the crowd may rave and mumble its bones for what I care.

Hole essential.  I am sorry about the maps; but I want 'em  for next edition, so see and have
proofs sent.  You are quite  right about the bottle and the great Huish, I must try to  make
it clear.  No, I will not write a play for Irving nor  for the devil.  Can you not see that
the work of  FALSIFICATION which a play demands is of all tasks the most  ungrateful?  And
I have done it a long while - and nothing  ever came of it.

Consider my new proposal, I mean Honolulu.  You would get the  Atlantic and the Rocky Mountains,
would you not? for bracing.   And so much less sea!  And then you could actually see  Vailima,
which I WOULD like you to, for it's beautiful and my  home and tomb that is to be; though it's
a wrench not to be  planted in Scotland - that I can never deny - if I could only  be buried
in the hills, under the heather and a table  tombstone like the martyrs, where the whaups and
plovers are  crying!  Did you see a man who wrote the STICKIT MINISTER,  and dedicated it to
me, in words that brought the tears to my  eyes every time I looked at them, 'Where about the
graves of  the martyrs the whaups are crying.  HIS heart remembers how.'   Ah, by God, it does!
Singular that I should fulfil the Scots  destiny throughout, and live a voluntary exile, and
have my  head filled with the blessed, beastly place all the time!

And now a word as regards the delusions of the dear Ross, who  remembers, I believe, my letters
and Fanny's when we were  first installed, and were really hoeing a hard row.  We have  salad,
beans, cabbages, tomatoes, asparagus, kohl-rabi,  oranges, limes, barbadines, pine-apples,
Cape gooseberries -  galore; pints of milk and cream; fresh meat five days a week.   It is
the rarest thing for any of us to touch a tin; and the  gnashing of teeth when it has to be
done is dreadful - for no  one who has not lived on them for six months knows what the  Hatred
of the Tin is.  As for exposure, my weakness is  certainly the reverse; I am sometimes a month
without leaving  the verandah - for my sins, be it said!  Doubtless, when I go  about and,
as the Doctor says, 'expose myself to malaria,' I  am in far better health; and I would do
so more too - for I  do not mean to be silly - but the difficulties are great.   However, you
see how much the dear Doctor knows of my diet  and habits!  Malaria practically does not exist
in these  islands; it is a negligeable quantity.  What really bothers  us a little is the mosquito
affair - the so-called  elephantiasis - ask Ross about it.  A real romance of natural  history,
QUOI!

Hi! stop! you say THE EBB TIDE is the 'working out of an  artistic problem of a kind.'  Well,
I should just bet it was!   You don't like Attwater.  But look at my three rogues;  they're
all there, I'll go bail.  Three types of the bad man,  the weak man, and the strong man with
a weakness, that are  gone through and lived out.

Yes, of course I was sorry for Mataafa, but a good deal  sorrier and angrier about the mismanagement
of all the white  officials.  I cannot bear to write about that.  Manono all  destroyed, one
house standing in Apolima, the women stripped,  the prisoners beaten with whips - and the women's
heads taken  - all under white auspices.  And for upshot and result of so  much shame to the
white powers - Tamasese already conspiring!  as I knew and preached in vain must be the case!
Well, well,  it is no fun to meddle in politics!

I suppose you're right about Simon.  But it is Symon  throughout in that blessed little volume
my father bought for  me in Inverness in the year of grace '81, I believe - the  trial of James
Stewart, with the Jacobite pamphlet and the  dying speech appended - out of which the whole
of Davie has  already been begotten, and which I felt it a kind of loyalty  to follow.  I really
ought to have it bound in velvet and  gold, if I had any gratitude! and the best of the lark
is,  that the name of David Balfour is not anywhere within the  bounds of it.

A pretty curious instance of the genesis of a book.  I am  delighted at your good word for
DAVID; I believe the two  together make up much the best of my work and perhaps of what  is
in me.  I am not ashamed of them, at least.  There is one  hitch; instead of three hours between
the two parts, I fear  there have passed three years over Davie's character; but do  not tell
anybody; see if they can find it out for themselves;  and no doubt his experiences in KIDNAPPED
would go far to  form him.  I would like a copy to go to G. Meredith.

WEDNESDAY.

Well, here is a new move.  It is likely I may start with  Graham next week and go to Honolulu
to meet the other steamer  and return: I do believe a fortnight at sea would do me good;  yet
I am not yet certain.  The crowded UP-steamer sticks in  my throat.

TUESDAY, 12TH SEPT.

Yesterday was perhaps the brightest in the annals of Vailima.   I got leave from Captain Bickford
to have the band of the  KATOOMBA come up, and they came, fourteen of 'em, with drum,  fife,
cymbals and bugles, blue jackets, white caps, and  smiling faces.  The house was all decorated
with scented  greenery above and below.  We had not only our own nine out- door workers, but
a contract party that we took on in charity  to pay their war-fine; the band besides, as it
came up the  mountain, had collected a following of children by the way,  and we had a picking
of Samoan ladies to receive them.   Chicken, ham, cake, and fruits were served out with coffee
and lemonade, and all the afternoon we had rounds of claret  negus flavoured with rum and limes.
They played to us, they  danced, they sang, they tumbled.  Our boys came in the end of  the
verandah and gave THEM a dance for a while.  It was  anxious work getting this stopped once
it had begun, but I  knew the band was going on a programme.  Finally they gave  three cheers
for Mr. and Mrs. Stevens, shook hands, formed up  and marched off playing - till a kicking
horse in the paddock  put their pipes out something of the suddenest - we thought  the big
drum was gone, but Simele flew to the rescue.  And so  they wound away down the hill with ever
another call of the  bugle, leaving us extinct with fatigue, but perhaps the most  contented
hosts that ever watched the departure of successful  guests.  Simply impossible to tell how
well these blue- jackets behaved; a most interesting lot of men; this  education of boys for
the navy is making a class, wholly  apart - how shall I call them? - a kind of lower-class
public  school boy, well-mannered, fairly intelligent, sentimental as  a sailor.  What is more
shall be writ on board ship if  anywhere.

Please send CATRIONA to G. Meredith.

S. S. MARIPOSA.

To-morrow I reach Honolulu.  Good-morning to your honour.  R.  L. S.

CHAPTER XXXIV

WAIKIKI, HONOLULU, H. 1. OCT. 23rd, 1893.

DEAR COLVIN, - My wife came up on the steamer and we go home  together in 2 days.  I am practically
all right, only sleepy  and tired easily, slept yesterday from 11 to 11.45, from 1 to  2.50,
went to bed at 8 P.M., and with an hour's interval  slept till 6 A.M., close upon 14 hours
out of the 24.  We  sail to-morrow.  I am anxious to get home, though this has  been an interesting
visit, and politics have been curious  indeed to study.  We go to P.P.C. on the 'Queen' this
morning; poor, recluse lady, ABREUVEE D'INJURES QU'ELLE EST.   Had a rather annoying lunch
on board the American man-of-war,  with a member of the P.G. (provincial government); and a
good  deal of anti-royalist talk, which I had to sit out - not only  for my host's sake, but
my fellow guests.  At last, I took  the lead and changed the conversation.

R. L. S.

I am being busted here by party named Hutchinson.  Seems  good.

[VAILIMA - NOVEMBER.]

Home again, and found all well, thank God.  I am perfectly  well again and ruddier than the
cherry.  Please note that  8000 is not bad for a volume of short stories; the MERRY MEN  did
a good deal worse; the short story never sells.  I hope  CATRIONA will do; that is the important.
The reviews seem  mixed and perplexed, and one had the peculiar virtue to make  me angry. 
I am in a fair way to expiscate my family history.   Fanny and I had a lovely voyage down,
with our new C. J. and  the American Land Commissioner, and on the whole, and for  these disgusting
steamers, a pleasant ship's company.  I  cannot understand why you don't take to the Hawaii
scheme.   Do you understand?  You cross the Atlantic in six days, and  go from 'Frisco to Honolulu
in seven.  Thirteen days at sea  IN ALL. - I have no wish to publish THE EBB TIDE as a book,
let it wait.  It will look well in the portfolio.  I would  like a copy, of course, for that
end; and to 'look upon't  again' - which I scarce dare.

[LATER.]

This is disgraceful.  I have done nothing; neither work nor  letters.  On the Me (May) day,
we had a great triumph; our  Protestant boys, instead of going with their own villages and
families, went of their own accord in the Vailima uniform;  Belle made coats for them on purpose
to complete the uniform,  they having bought the stuff; and they were hailed as they  marched
in as the Tama-ona - the rich man's children.  This  is really a score; it means that Vailima
is publicly taken as  a family.  Then we had my birthday feast a week late, owing  to diarrhoea
on the proper occasion.  The feast was laid in  the Hall, and was a singular mass of food:
15 pigs, 100 lbs.  beef, 100 lbs. pork, and the fruit and filigree in a  proportion.  We had
sixty horse-posts driven in the gate  paddock; how many guests I cannot guess, perhaps 150.
They  came between three and four and left about seven.  Seumanu  gave me one of his names;
and when my name was called at the  ava drinking, behold, it was AU MAI TAUA MA MANU-VAO! 
You  would scarce recognise me, if you heard me thus referred to!

Two days after, we hired a carriage in Apia, Fanny, Belle,  Lloyd and I, and drove in great
style, with a native  outrider, to the prison; a huge gift of ava and tobacco under  the seats.
The prison is now under the PULE of an Austrian,  Captain Wurmbrand, a soldier of fortune in
Servia and Turkey,  a charming, clever, kindly creature, who is adored by 'HIS  chiefs' (as
he calls them) meaning OUR political prisoners.   And we came into the yard, walled about with
tinned iron, and  drank ava with the prisoners and the captain.  It may amuse  you to hear
how it is proper to drink ava.  When the cup is  handed you, you reach your arm out somewhat
behind you, and  slowly pour a libation, saying with somewhat the manner of  prayer, 'IA TAUMAFA
E LE ATUA.  UA MATAGOFIE LE FESILAFAIGA  NEI.'  'Be it (high-chief) partaken of by the God.
How (high  chief) beautiful to view is this (high chief) gathering.'   This pagan practice
is very queer.  I should say that the  prison ava was of that not very welcome form that we
elegantly call spit-ava, but of course there was no escape,  and it had to be drunk.  Fanny
and I rode home, and I  moralised by the way.  Could we ever stand Europe again? did  she appreciate
that if we were in London, we should be  ACTUALLY JOSTLED in the street? and there was nobody
in the  whole of Britain who knew how to take ava like a gentleman?   'Tis funny to be thus
of two civilisations - or, if you like,  of one civilisation and one barbarism.  And, as usual,
the  barbarism is the more engaging.

Colvin, you have to come here and see us in our { native /  mortal } spot.  I just don't seem
to be able to make up my  mind to your not coming.  By this time, you will have seen  Graham,
I hope, and he will be able to tell you something  about us, and something reliable, I shall
feel for the first  time as if you knew a little about Samoa after that.  Fanny  seems to be
in the right way now.  I must say she is very,  very well for her, and complains scarce at
all.  Yesterday,  she went down SOLA (at least accompanied by a groom) to pay a  visit; Belle,
Lloyd and I went a walk up the mountain road -  the great public highway of the island, where
you have to go  single file.  The object was to show Belle that gaudy valley  of the Vaisigano
which the road follows.  If the road is to  be made and opened, as our new Chief Justice promises,
it  will be one of the most beautiful roads in the world.  But  the point is this: I forgot
I had been three months in  civilisation, wearing shoes and stockings, and I tell you I  suffered
on my soft feet; coming home, down hill, on that  stairway of loose stones, I could have cried.
O yes, another  story, I knew I had.  The house boys had not been behaving  well, so the other
night I announced a FONO, and Lloyd and I  went into the boys' quarters, and I talked to them
I suppose  for half an hour, and Talolo translated; Lloyd was there  principally to keep another
ear on the interpreter; else  there may be dreadful misconceptions.  I rubbed all their  ears,
except two whom I particularly praised; and one man's  wages I announced I had cut down by
one half.  Imagine his  taking this smiling!  Ever since, he has been specially  attentive
and greets me with a face of really heavenly  brightness.  This is another good sign of their
really and  fairly accepting me as a chief.  When I first came here, if I  had fined a man
a sixpence, he would have quit work that  hour, and now I remove half his income, and he is
glad to  stay on - nay, does not seem to entertain the possibility of  leaving.  And this in
the face of one particular difficulty -  I mean our house in the bush, and no society, and
no women  society within decent reach.

I think I must give you our staff in a tabular form.

HOUSE.

+ o SOSIMO, provost and butler, and my valet.

o MISIFOLO, who is Fanny and Belle's chamberlain.

KITCHEN

+ o TALOLO, provost and chief cook.

+ o IOPU, second cook.

TALI, his wife, no wages.

TI'A, Samoan cook.

FEILOA'I, his child, no wages, likewise no work - Belle's  pet.

+ o LEUELU, Fanny's boy, gardener, odd jobs.

IN APIA.

+ ELIGA, washman and daily errand man.

OUTSIDE.

+ o HENRY SIMELE, provost and overseas of outside boys.

LU.

TASI SELE.

MAIELE.

PULU, who is also our talking man and cries the ava.

The crosses mark out the really excellent boys.  Ti'a is the  man who has just been fined half
his wages; he is a beautiful  old man, the living image of 'Fighting Gladiator,' my  favourite
statue - but a dreadful humbug.  I think we keep  him on a little on account of his looks.
This sign o marks  those who have been two years or upwards in the family.  I  note all my
old boys have the cross of honour, except  Misifolo; well, poor dog, he does his best, I suppose.
You  should see him scour.  It is a remark that has often been  made by visitors: you never
see a Samoan run, except at  Vailima.  Do you not suppose that makes me proud?

I am pleased to see what a success THE WRECKER was, having  already in little more than a year
outstripped THE MASTER OF  BALLANTRAE.

About DAVID BALFOUR in two volumes, do see that they make it  a decent-looking book, and tell
me, do you think a little  historical appendix would be of service?  Lang bleats for  one,
and I thought I might address it to him as a kind of  open letter.

DEC. 4TH.

No time after all.  Good-bye.

R. L S.

CHAPTER XXXV

MY DEAR COLVIN, - One page out of my picture book I must give  you.  Fine burning day; half
past two P.M.  We four begin to  rouse up from reparatory slumbers, yawn, and groan, get a
cup  of tea, and miserably dress: we have had a party the day  before, X'mas Day, with all
the boys absent but one, and  latterly two; we had cooked all day long, a cold dinner, and
lo! at two our guests began to arrive, though dinner was not  till six; they were sixteen,
and fifteen slept the night and  breakfasted.  Conceive, then, how unwillingly we climb on
our  horses and start off in the hottest part of the afternoon to  ride 4 and a half miles,
attend a native feast in the gaol,  and ride four and a half miles back.  But there is no help
for it.  I am a sort of father of the political prisoners,  and have CHARGE D'AMES in that
riotously absurd  establishment, Apia Gaol.  The twenty-three (I think it is)  chiefs act as
under gaolers.  The other day they told the  Captain of an attempt to escape.  One of the lesser
political  prisoners the other day effected a swift capture, while the  Captain was trailing
about with the warrant; the man came to  see what was wanted; came, too, flanked by the former
gaoler;  my prisoner offers to show him the dark cell, shoves him in,  and locks the door.
'Why do you do that?' cries the former  gaoler.  'A warrant,' says he.  Finally, the chiefs
actually  feed the soldiery who watch them!

The gaol is a wretched little building, containing a little  room, and three cells, on each
side of a central passage; it  is surrounded by a fence of corrugated iron, and shows, over
the top of that, only a gable end with the inscription O LE  FALE PUIPUI.  It is on the edge
of the mangrove swamp, and is  reached by a sort of causeway of turf.  When we drew near, we
saw the gates standing open and a prodigious crowd outside -  I mean prodigious for Apia, perhaps
a hundred and fifty  people.  The two sentries at the gate stood to arms  passively, and there
seemed to be a continuous circulation  inside and out.  The captain came to meet us; our boy,
who  had been sent ahead was there to take the horses; and we  passed inside the court which
was full of food, and rang  continuously to the voice of the caller of gifts; I had to  blush
a little later when my own present came, and I heard my  one pig and eight miserable pine-apples
being counted out  like guineas.  In the four corners of the yard and along one  wall, there
are make-shift, dwarfish, Samoan houses or huts,  which have been run up since Captain Wurmbrand
came to  accommodate the chiefs.  Before that they were all crammed  into the six cells, and
locked in for the night, some of them  with dysentery.  They are wretched constructions enough,
but  sanctified by the presence of chiefs.  We heard a man  corrected loudly to-day for saying
'FALE' of one of them;  'MAOTA,' roared the highest chief present - 'palace.'  About  eighteen
chiefs, gorgeously arrayed, stood up to greet us,  and led us into one of these MAOTAS, where
you may be sure we  had to crouch, almost to kneel, to enter, and where a row of  pretty girls
occupied one side to make the ava (kava).  The  highest chief present was a magnificent man,
as high chiefs  usually are; I find I cannot describe him; his face is full  of shrewdness
and authority; his figure like Ajax; his name  Auilua.  He took the head of the building and
put Belle on  his right hand.  Fanny was called first for the ava (kava).   Our names were
called in English style, the high-chief wife  of Mr. St- (an unpronounceable something); Mrs.
Straw, and  the like.  And when we went into the other house to eat, we  found we were seated
alternately with chiefs about the -  table, I was about to say, but rather floor.  Everything
was  to be done European style with a vengeance!  We were the only  whites present, except
Wurmbrand, and still I had no  suspicion of the truth.  They began to take off their ulas 
(necklaces of scarlet seeds) and hang them about our necks;  we politely resisted, and were
told that the King (who had  stopped off their SIVA) had sent down to the prison a message
to the effect that he was to give a dinner to-morrow, and  wished their second-hand ulas for
it.  Some of them were  content; others not.  There was a ring of anger in the boy's  voice,
as he told us we were to wear them past the King's  house.  Dinner over, I must say they are
moderate eaters at a  feast, we returned to the ava house; and then the curtain  drew suddenly
up upon the set scene.  We took our seats, and  Auilua began to give me a present, recapitulating
each  article as he gave it out, with some appropriate comment.  He  called me several times
'their only friend,' said they were  all in slavery, had no money, and these things were all
made  by the hands of their families - nothing bought; he had one  phrase, in which I heard
his voice rise up to a note of  triumph: 'This is a present from the poor prisoners to the
rich man.'  Thirteen pieces of tapa, some of them  surprisingly fine, one I think unique; thirty
fans of every  shape and colour; a kava cup, etc., etc.  At first Auilua  conducted the business
with weighty gravity; but before the  end of the thirty fans, his comments began to be humorous.
When it came to a little basket, he said: 'Here was a little  basket for Tusitala to put sixpence
in, when he could get  hold of one' - with a delicious grimace.  I answered as best  as I was
able through a miserable interpreter; and all the  while, as I went on, I heard the crier outside
in the court  calling my gift of food, which I perceived was to be  Gargantuan.  I had brought
but three boys with me.  It was  plain that they were wholly overpowered.  We proposed to send
for our gifts on the morrow; but no, said the interpreter,  that would never do; they must
go away to-day, Mulinuu must  see my porters taking away the gifts, - 'make 'em jella,'  quoth
the interpreter.  And I began to see the reason of this  really splendid gift; one half, gratitude
to me - one half, a  wipe at the King.

And now, to introduce darker colours, you must know this  visit of mine to the gaol was just
a little bit risky; we had  several causes for anxiety; it MIGHT have been put up, to  connect
with a Tamasese rising.  Tusitala and his family  would be good hostages.  On the other hand,
there were the  Mulinuu people all about.  We could see the anxiety of  Captain Wurmbrand,
no less anxious to have us go, than he had  been to see us come; he was deadly white and plainly
had a  bad headache, in the noisy scene.  Presently, the noise grew  uproarious; there was
a rush at the gate - a rush in, not a  rush out - where the two sentries still stood passive;
Auilua  leaped from his place (it was then that I got the name of  Ajax for him) and the next
moment we heard his voice roaring  and saw his mighty figure swaying to and fro in the hurly-
burly.  As the deuce would have it, we could not understand a  word of what was going on. 
It might be nothing more than the  ordinary 'grab racket' with which a feast commonly concludes;
it might be something worse.  We made what arrangements we  could for my tapa, fans, etc.,
as well as for my five pigs,  my masses of fish, taro, etc., and with great dignity, and  ourselves
laden with ulas and other decorations, passed  between the sentries among the howling mob to
our horses.   All's well that ends well.  Owing to Fanny and Belle, we had  to walk; and, as
Lloyd said, 'he had at last ridden in a  circus.'  The whole length of Apia we paced our triumphal
progress, past the King's palace, past the German firm at  Sogi - you can follow it on the
map - amidst admiring  exclamations of 'MAWAIA' - beautiful - it may be rendered 'O  my! ain't
they dandy' - until we turned up at last into our  road as the dusk deepened into night.  It
was really  exciting.  And there is one thing sure: no such feast was  ever made for a single
family, and no such present ever given  to a single white man.  It is something to have been
the hero  of it.  And whatever other ingredients there were,  undoubtedly gratitude was present.
As money value I have  actually gained on the transaction!

Your note arrived; little profit, I must say.  Scott has  already put his nose in, in ST. IVES,
sir; but his appearance  is not yet complete; nothing is in that romance, except the  story.
I have to announce that I am off work, probably for  six months.  I must own that I have overworked
bitterly -  overworked - there, that's legible.  My hand is a thing that  was, and in the meanwhile
so are my brains.  And here, in the  very midst, comes a plausible scheme to make Vailima pay,
which will perhaps let me into considerable expense just when  I don't want it.  You know the
vast cynicism of my view of  affairs, and how readily and (as some people say) with how  much
gusto I take the darker view?

Why do you not send me Jerome K. Jerome's paper, and let me  see THE EBB TIDE as a serial?
It is always very important to  see a thing in different presentments.  I want every number.
Politically we begin the new year with every expectation of a  bust in 2 or 3 days, a bust
which may spell destruction to  Samoa.  I have written to Baxter about his proposal.

CHAPTER XXXVI

VAILIMA, JAN. 29TH, 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I had fully intended for your education and  moral health to fob you off
with the meanest possible letter  this month, and unfortunately I find I will have to treat
you  to a good long account of matters here.  I believe I have  told you before about Tui-ma-le-alii-fano
and my taking him  down to introduce him to the Chief Justice.  Well, Tui came  back to Vailima
one day in the blackest sort of spirits,  saying the war was decided, that he also must join
in the  fight, and that there was no hope whatever of success.  He  must fight as a point of
honour for his family and country;  and in his case, even if he escaped on the field of battle,
deportation was the least to be looked for.  He said he had a  letter of complaint from the
Great Council of A'ana which he  wished to lay before the Chief Justice; and he asked me to
accompany him as if I were his nurse.  We went down about  dinner time; and by the way received
from a lurking native  the famous letter in an official blue envelope gummed up to  the edges.
It proved to be a declaration of war, quite  formal, but with some variations that really made
you bounce.   White residents were directly threatened, bidden to have  nothing to do with
the King's party, not to receive their  goods in their houses, etc., under pain of an accident.
However, the Chief Justice took it very wisely and mildly,  and between us, he and I and Tui
made up a plan which has  proved successful - so far.  The war is over - fifteen chiefs  are
this morning undergoing a curious double process of law,  comparable to a court martial; in
which their complaints are  to be considered, and if possible righted, while their  conduct
is to be criticised, perhaps punished.  Up to now,  therefore, it has been a most successful
policy; but the  danger is before us.  My own feeling would decidedly be that  all would be
spoiled by a single execution.  The great hope  after all lies in the knotless, rather flaccid
character of  the people.  These are no Maoris.  All the powers that  Cedarcrantz let go by
disuse the new C. J. is stealthily and  boldly taking back again; perhaps some others also.
He has  shamed the chiefs in Mulinuu into a law against taking heads,  with a punishment of
six years' imprisonment and, for a  chief, degradation.  To him has been left the sole conduct
of  this anxious and decisive inquiry.  If the natives stand it,  why, well!  But I am nervous.

CHAPTER XXXVII

FEB. 1894.

DEAR COLVIN, - By a reaction, when your letter is a little  decent, mine is to be naked and
unashamed.  We have been much  exercised.  No one can prophesy here, of course, and the  balance
still hangs trembling, but I THINK it will go for  peace.

The mail was very late this time; hence the paltryness of  this note.  When it came and I had
read it, I retired with  THE EBB TIDE and read it all before I slept.  I did not dream  it
was near as good; I am afraid I think it excellent.  A  little indecision about Attwater, not
much.  It gives me  great hope, as I see I CAN work in that constipated, mosaic  manner, which
is what I have to do just now with WEIR OF  HERMISTON.

We have given a ball; I send you a paper describing the  event.  We have two guests in the
house, Captain-Count  Wurmbrand and Monsieur Albert de Lautreppe.  Lautreppe is  awfully nice
- a quiet, gentlemanly fellow, GONFLE DE REVES,  as he describes himself - once a sculptor
in the atelier of  Henry Crosse, he knows something of art, and is really a  resource to me.

Letter from Meredith very kind.  Have you seen no more of  Graham?

What about my grandfather?  The family history will grow to  be quite a chapter.

I suppose I am growing sensitive; perhaps, by living among  barbarians, I expect more civility.
Look at this from the  author of a very interesting and laudatory critique.  He  gives quite
a false description of something of mine, and  talks about my 'insolence.' Frankly, I supposed
'insolence'  to be a tapua word.  I do not use it to a gentleman, I would  not write it of
a gentleman: I may be wrong, but I believe we  did not write it of a gentleman in old days,
and in my view  he (clever fellow as he is) wants to be kicked for applying  it to me.  By
writing a novel - even a bad one - I do not  make myself a criminal for anybody to insult.
This may amuse  you.  But either there is a change in journalism, too gradual  for you to remark
it on the spot, or there is a change in me.   I cannot bear these phrases; I long to resent
them.  My  forbears, the tenant farmers of the Mains, would not have  suffered such expressions
unless it had been from Cauldwell,  or Rowallan, or maybe Auchendrane.  My Family Pride bristles.
I am like the negro, 'I just heard last night' who my great,  great, great, great grandfather
was. - Ever yours,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

MARCH 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is the very day the mail goes, and I  have as yet written you nothing.
But it was just as well -  as it was all about my 'blacks and chocolates,' and what of  it
had relation to whites you will read some of in the TIMES.   It means, as you will see, that
I have at one blow quarrelled  with all the officials of Samoa, the Foreign Office, and I 
suppose her Majesty the Queen with milk and honey blest.  But  you'll see in the TIMES.  I
am very well indeed, but just  about dead and mighty glad the mail is near here, and I can
just give up all hope of contending with my letters, and lie  down for the rest of the day.
These TIMES letters are not  easy to write.  And I dare say the Consuls say, 'Why, then,  does
he write them?'

I had miserable luck with ST. IVES; being already half-way  through it, a book I had ordered
six months ago arrives at  last, and I have to change the first half of it from top to  bottom!
How could I have dreamed the French prisoners were  watched over like a female charity school,
kept in a  grotesque livery, and shaved twice a week?  And I had made  all my points on the
idea that they were unshaved and clothed  anyhow.  However, this last is better business; if
only the  book had come when I ordered it!  A PROPOS, many of the books  you announce don't
come as a matter of fact.  When they are  of any value, it is best to register them.  Your
letter,  alas! is not here; I sent it down to the cottage, with all my  mail, for Fanny; on
Sunday night a boy comes up with a  lantern and a note from Fanny, to say the woods are full
of  Atuas and I must bring a horse down that instant, as the  posts are established beyond
her on the road, and she does  not want to have the fight going on between us.  Impossible
to get a horse; so I started in the dark on foot, with a  revolver, and my spurs on my bare
feet, leaving directions  that the boy should mount after me with the horse.  Try such  an
experience on Our Road once, and do it, if you please,  after you have been down town from
nine o'clock till six, on  board the ship-of-war lunching, teaching Sunday School (I  actually
do) and making necessary visits; and the Saturday  before, having sat all day from half past
six to half-past  four, scriving at my TIMES letter.  About half-way up, just  in fact at 'point'
of the outposts, I met Fanny coming up.   Then all night long I was being wakened with scares
that  really should be looked into, though I KNEW there was nothing  in them and no bottom
to the whole story; and the drums and  shouts and cries from Tanugamanono and the town keeping
up an  all night corybantic chorus in the moonlight - the moon rose  late - and the search-light
of the war-ship in the harbour  making a jewel of brightness as it lit up the bay of Apia in
the distance.  And then next morning, about eight o'clock, a  drum coming out of the woods
and a party of patrols who had  been in the woods on our left front (which is our true rear)
coming up to the house, and meeting there another party who  had been in the woods on our right
{ front / rear } which is  Vaea Mountain, and 43 of them being entertained to ava and  biscuits
on the verandah, and marching off at last in single  file for Apia.  Briefly, it is not much
wonder if your letter  and my whole mail was left at the cottage, and I have no  means of seeing
or answering particulars.

The whole thing was nothing but a bottomless scare; it was  OBVIOUSLY so; you couldn't make
a child believe it was  anything else, but it has made the Consuls sit up.  My own  private
scares were really abominably annoying; as for  instance after I had got to sleep for the ninth
time perhaps  - and that was no easy matter either, for I had a crick in my  neck so agonising
that I had to sleep sitting up - I heard  noises as of a man being murdered in the boys' house.
To be  sure, said I, this is nothing again, but if a man's head was  being taken, the noises
would be the same!  So I had to get  up, stifle my cries of agony from the crick, get my revolver,
and creep out stealthily to the boys' house.  And there were  two of them sitting up, keeping
watch of their own accord  like good boys, and whiling the time over a game of Sweepi  (Cascino
- the whist of our islanders) - and one of them was  our champion idiot, Misifolo, and I suppose
he was holding  bad cards, and losing all the time - and these noises were  his humorous protests
against Fortune!

Well, excuse this excursion into my 'blacks and chocolates.'   It is the last.  You will have
heard from Lysaght how I  failed to write last mail.  The said Lysaght seems to me a  very
nice fellow.  We were only sorry he could not stay with  us longer.  Austin came back from
school last week, which  made a great time for the Amanuensis, you may be sure.  Then  on Saturday,
the CURACOA came in - same commission, with all  our old friends; and on Sunday, as already
mentioned, Austin  and I went down to service and had lunch afterwards in the  wardroom.  The
officers were awfully nice to Austin; they are  the most amiable ship in the world; and after
lunch we had a  paper handed round on which we were to guess, and sign our  guess, of the number
of leaves on the pine-apple; I never saw  this game before, but it seems it is much practised
in the  Queen's Navee.  When all have betted, one of the party begins  to strip the pine-apple
head, and the person whose guess is  furthest out has to pay for the sherry.  My equanimity
was  disturbed by shouts of THE AMERICAN COMMODORE, and I found  that Austin had entered and
lost about a bottle of sherry!   He turned with great composure and addressed me.  'I am  afraid
I must look to you, Uncle Louis.'  The Sunday School  racket is only an experiment which I
took up at the request  of the late American Land Commissioner; I am trying it for a  month,
and if I do as ill as I believe, and the boys find it  only half as tedious as I do, I think
it will end in a month.   I have CARTE BLANCHE, and say what I like; but does any  single soul
understand me?

Fanny is on the whole very much better.  Lloyd has been under  the weather, and goes for a
month to the South Island of New  Zealand for some skating, save the mark!  I get all the 
skating I want among officials.

Dear Colvin, please remember that my life passes among my  'blacks or chocolates.'  If I were
to do as you propose, in a  bit of a tiff, it would cut you off entirely from my life.   You
must try to exercise a trifle of imagination, and put  yourself, perhaps with an effort, into
some sort of sympathy  with these people, or how am I to write to you?  I think you  are truly
a little too Cockney with me. - Ever yours,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

CHAPTER XXXIX

VAILIMA, MAY 18TH, 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - Your proposals for the Edinburgh edition  are entirely to my mind.  About
the AMATEUR EMIGRANT, it  shall go to you by this mail well slashed.  If you like to  slash
some more on your own account, I give you permission.   'Tis not a great work; but since it
goes to make up the two  first volumes as proposed, I presume it has not been written  in vain.
- MISCELLANIES.  I see with some alarm the proposal  to print JUVENILIA; does it not seem to
you taking myself a  little too much as Grandfather William?  I am certainly not  so young
as I once was - a lady took occasion to remind me of  the fact no later agone than last night.
'Why don't you  leave that to the young men, Mr. Stevenson?' said she - but  when I remember
that I felt indignant at even John Ruskin  when he did something of the kind I really feel
myself blush  from head to heel.  If you want to make up the first volume,  there are a good
many works which I took the trouble to  prepare for publication and which have never been 
republished.  In addition to ROADS and DANCING CHILDREN,  referred to by you, there is an Autumn
effect in the  PORTFOLIO, and a paper on FONTAINEBLEAU - FOREST NOTES is the  name of it -
in CORNHILL.  I have no objection to any of  these being edited, say with a scythe, and reproduced.
But I  heartily abominate and reject the idea of reprinting the  PENTLAND RISING.  For God's
sake let me get buried first.

TALES AND FANTASIES.  Vols. I. and II. have my hearty  approval.  But I think III. and IV.
had better be crammed  into one as you suggest.  I will reprint none of the stories  mentioned.
They are below the mark.  Well, I dare say the  beastly BODY-SNATCHER has merit, and I am unjust
to it from  my recollections of the PALL MALL.  But the other two won't  do.  For vols. V.
and VI., now changed into IV. and V., I  propose the common title of SOUTH SEA YARNS.  There!
These  are all my differences of opinion.  I agree with every detail  of your arrangement,
and, as you see, my objections have  turned principally on the question of hawking unripe fruit.
I daresay it is all pretty green, but that is no reason for  us to fill the barrow with trash.
Think of having a new set  of type cast, paper especially made, etc., in order to set up  rubbish
that is not fit for the SATURDAY SCOTSMAN.  It would  be the climax of shame.

I am sending you a lot of verses, which had best, I think, be  called UNDERWOODS Book III.,
but in what order are they to  go?  Also, I am going on every day a little, till I get sick
of it, with the attempt to get the EMIGRANT compressed into  life; I know I can - or you can
after me - do it.  It is only  a question of time and prayer and ink, and should leave  something,
no, not good, but not all bad - a very genuine  appreciation of these folks.  You are to remember
besides  there is that paper of mine on Bunyan in THE MAGAZINE OF ART.   O, and then there's
another thing in SEELEY called some  spewsome name, I cannot recall it.

Well - come, here goes for JUVENILIA.  DANCING INFANTS,  ROADS, AN AUTUMN EFFECT, FOREST NOTES
(but this should come  at the end of them, as it's really rather riper), the t'other  thing
from SEELEY, and I'll tell you, you may put in my  letter to the Church of Scotland - it's
not written amiss,  and I daresay the PHILOSOPHY OF UMBRELLAS might go in, but  there I stick
- and remember THAT was a collaboration with  James Walter Ferrier.  O, and there was a little
skit called  the CHARITY BAZAAR, which you might see; I don't think it  would do.  Now, I do
not think there are two other words that  should be printed. - By the way, there is an article
of mine  called THE DAY AFTER TO-MORROW in the CONTEMPORARY which you  might find room for
somewhere; it is no' bad.

Very busy with all these affairs and some native ones also.

CHAPTER XL

VAILIMA, June 18th, 94.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - You are to please understand that my last  letter is withdrawn unconditionally.
You and Baxter are  having all the trouble of this Edition, and I simply put  myself in your
hands for you to do what you like with me, and  I am sure that will be the best, at any rate.
Hence you are  to conceive me withdrawing all objections to your printing  anything you please.
After all it is a sort of family  affair.  About the Miscellany Section, both plans seem to
me  quite good.  Toss up.  I think the OLD GARDENER has to stay  where I put him last.  It
would not do to separate John and  Robert.

In short, I am only sorry I ever uttered a word about the  edition, and leave you to be the
judge.  I have had a vile  cold which has prostrated me for more than a fortnight, and  even
now tears me nightly with spasmodic coughs; but it has  been a great victory.  I have never
borne a cold with so  little hurt; wait till the clouds blow by, before you begin  to boast!
I have had no fever; and though I've been very  unhappy, it is nigh over, I think.  Of course,
ST. IVES has  paid the penalty.  I must not let you be disappointed in ST.  I.  It is a mere
tissue of adventures; the central figure not  very well or very sharply drawn; no philosophy,
no destiny,  to it; some of the happenings very good in themselves, I  believe, but none of
them BILDENDE, none of them  constructive, except in so far perhaps as they make up a kind
of sham picture of the time, all in italics and all out of  drawing.  Here and there, I think,
it is well written; and  here and there it's not.  Some of the episodic characters are  amusing,
I do believe; others not, I suppose.  However, they  are the best of the thing such as it is.
If it has a merit  to it, I should say it was a sort of deliberation and swing  to the style,
which seems to me to suit the mail-coaches and  post-chaises with which it sounds all through.
'Tis my most  prosaic book.

I called on the two German ships now in port, and we are  quite friendly with them, and intensely
friendly of course  with our own CURACOAS.  But it is other guess work on the  beach.  Some
one has employed, or subsidised, one of the  local editors to attack me once a week.  He is
pretty  scurrilous and pretty false.  The first effect of the perusal  of the weekly Beast
is to make me angry; the second is a kind  of deep, golden content and glory, when I seem to
say to  people: 'See! this is my position - I am a plain man dwelling  in the bush in a house,
and behold they have to get up this  kind of truck against me - and I have so much influence
that  they are obliged to write a weekly article to say I have  none.'

By this time you must have seen Lysaght and forgiven me the  letter that came not at all. 
He was really so nice a fellow  - he had so much to tell me of Meredith - and the time was
so  short - that I gave up the intervening days between mails  entirely to entertain him.

We go on pretty nicely.  Fanny, Belle, and I have had two  months alone, and it has been very
pleasant.  But by to- morrow or next day noon, we shall see the whole clan  assembled again
about Vailima table, which will be pleasant  too; seven persons in all, and the Babel of voices
will be  heard again in the big hall so long empty and silent.  Good- bye.  Love to all.  Time
to close. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

CHAPTER XLI

JULY, 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - I have to thank you this time for a very  good letter, and will announce
for the future, though I  cannot now begin to put in practice, good intentions for our  correspondence.
I will try to return to the old system and  write from time to time during the month; but truly
you did  not much encourage me to continue!  However, that is all by- past.  I do not know
that there is much in your letter that  calls for answer.  Your questions about ST. IVES were
practically answered in my last; so were your wails about the  edition, AMATEUR EMIGRANT, etc.
By the end of the year ST.  I. will be practically finished, whatever it be worth, and  that
I know not.  When shall I receive proofs of the MAGNUM  OPUS? or shall I receive them at all?

The return of the Amanuensis feebly lightens my heart.  You  can see the heavy weather I was
making of it with my unaided  pen.  The last month has been particularly cheery largely  owing
to the presence of our good friends the CURACOAS.  She  is really a model ship, charming officers
and charming  seamen.  They gave a ball last month, which was very rackety  and joyous and
naval. . . .

On the following day, about one o'clock, three horsemen might  have been observed approaching
Vailima, who gradually  resolved themselves into two petty officers and a native  guide.  Drawing
himself up and saluting, the spokesman (a  corporal of Marines) addressed me thus.  'Me and
my shipmates  inwites Mr. and Mrs. Stevens, Mrs. Strong, Mr. Austin, and  Mr. Balfour to a
ball to be given to-night in the self-same  'all.'  It was of course impossible to refuse,
though I  contented myself with putting in a very brief appearance.   One glance was sufficient;
the ball went off like a rocket  from the start.  I had only time to watch Belle careering
around with a gallant bluejacket of exactly her own height -  the standard of the British navy
- an excellent dancer and  conspicuously full of small-talk - and to hear a remark from  a
beach-comber, 'It's a nice sight this some way, to see the  officers dancing like this with
the men, but I tell you, sir,  these are the men that'll fight together!'

I tell you, Colvin, the acquaintance of the men - and boys -  makes me feel patriotic.  Eeles
in particular is a man whom I  respect.  I am half in a mind to give him a letter of  introduction
to you when he goes home.  In case you feel  inclined to make a little of him, give him a dinner,
ask  Henry James to come to meet him, etc. - you might let me  know.  I don't know that he
would show his best, but he is a  remarkably fine fellow, in every department of life.

We have other visitors in port.  A Count Festetics de Solna,  an Austrian officer, a very pleasant,
simple, boyish  creature, with his young wife, daughter of an American  millionaire; he is
a friend of our own Captain Wurmbrand, and  it is a great pity Wurmbrand is away.

Glad you saw and liked Lysaght.  He has left in our house a  most cheerful and pleasing memory,
as a good, pleasant, brisk  fellow with good health and brains, and who enjoys himself  and
makes other people happy.  I am glad he gave you a good  report of our surroundings and way
of life; but I knew he  would, for I believe he had a glorious time - and gave one.

I am on fair terms with the two Treaty officials, though all  such intimacies are precarious;
with the consuls, I need not  say, my position is deplorable.  The President (Herr Emil  Schmidt)
is a rather dreamy man, whom I like.  Lloyd, Graham  and I go to breakfast with him to-morrow;
the next day the  whole party of us lunch on the CURACOA and go in the evening  to a BIERABEND
at Dr. Funk's.  We are getting up a paper- chase for the following week with some of the young
German  clerks, and have in view a sort of child's party for grown-up  persons with kissing
games, etc., here at Vailima.  Such is  the gay scene in which we move.  Now I have done something,
though not as much as I wanted, to give you an idea of how we  are getting on, and I am keenly
conscious that there are  other letters to do before the mail goes. - Yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

CHAPTER XLII

AUG. 7TH

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This is to inform you, sir, that on Sunday  last (and this is Tuesday) I
attained my ideal here, and we  had a paper chase in Vailele Plantation, about 15 miles, I
take it, from us; and it was all that could be wished.  It is  really better fun than following
the hounds, since you have  to be your own hound, and a precious bad hound I was,  following
every false scent on the whole course to the bitter  end; but I came in 3rd at the last on
my little Jack, who  stuck to it gallantly, and awoke the praises of some  discriminating persons.
(5 + 7 + 2.5 = 14.5 miles; yes, that  is the count.)  We had quite the old sensations of  exhilaration,
discovery, an appeal to a savage instinct; and  I felt myself about 17 again, a pleasant experience.
However, it was on the Sabbath Day, and I am now a pariah  among the English, as if I needed
any increment of  unpopularity.  I must not go again; it gives so much  unnecessary tribulation
to poor people, and, sure, we don't  want to make tribulation.  I have been forbidden to work,
and  have been instead doing my two or three hours in the  plantation every morning.  I only
wish somebody would pay me  10 pounds a day for taking care of cacao, and I could leave  literature
to others.  Certainly, if I have plenty of  exercise, and no work, I feel much better; but
there is Biles  the butcher! him we have always with us.

I do not much like novels, I begin to think, but I am  enjoying exceedingly Orme's HISTORY
OF HINDOSTAN, a lovely  book in its way, in large quarto, with a quantity of maps,  and written
in a very lively and solid eighteenth century  way, never picturesque except by accident and
from a kind of  conviction, and a fine sense of order.  No historian I have  ever read is so
minute; yet he never gives you a word about  the people; his interest is entirely limited in
the  concatenation of events, into which he goes with a lucid,  almost superhuman, and wholly
ghostly gusto.  'By the ghost  of a mathematician' the book might be announced.  A very  brave,
honest book.

Your letter to hand.

Fact is, I don't like the picter.  O, it's a good picture,  but if you ASK me, you know, I
believe, stoutly believe, that  mankind, including you, are going mad, I am not in the midst
with the other frenzy dancers, so I don't catch it wholly;  and when you show me a thing -
and ask me, don't you know -  Well, well!  Glad to get so good an account of the AMATEUR  EMIGRANT.
Talking of which, I am strong for making a volume  out of selections from the South Sea letters;
I read over  again the King of Apemama, and it is good in spite of your  teeth, and a real
curiosity, a thing that can never be seen  again, and the group is annexed and Tembinoka dead.
I  wonder, couldn't you send out to me the FIRST five Butaritari  letters and the Low Archipelago
ones (both of which I have  lost or mislaid) and I can chop out a perfectly fair volume  of
what I wish to be preserved.  It can keep for the last of  the series.

TRAVELS AND EXCURSIONS, vol. II.  Should it not include a  paper on S. F. from the MAG. OF
ART?  The A. E., the New  Pacific capital, the Old ditto.  SILVER. SQUAT.  This would  give
all my works on the States; and though it ain't very  good, it's not so very bad.  TRAVELS
AND EXCURSIONS, vol.   III., to be these resuscitated letters - MISCELLANIES, vol.  II. - COMME
VOUS VOUDREZ, CHER MONSIEUR!

MONDAY, Aug. 13TH

I have a sudden call to go up the coast and must hurry up  with my information.  There has
suddenly come to our naval  commanders the need of action, they're away up the coast  bombarding
the Atua rebels.  All morning on Saturday the  sound of the bombardment of Lotuanu'u kept us
uneasy.  To-day  again the big guns have been sounding further along the  coast.

To-morrow morning early I am off up the coast myself.   Therefore you must allow me to break
off here without further  ceremony. - Yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

CHAPTER XLIII

VAILIMA, 1894.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - This must be a very measly letter.  I have  been trying hard to get along
with ST. IVES.  I should now  lay it aside for a year and I daresay I should make something
of it after all.  Instead of that, I have to kick against the  pricks, and break myself, and
spoil the book, if there were  anything to spoil, which I am far from saying.  I'm as sick
of the thing as ever any one can be; it's a rudderless hulk;  it's a pagoda, and you can just
feel - or I can feel - that  it might have been a pleasant story, if it had been only  blessed
at baptism.

Our politics have gone on fairly well, but the result is  still doubtful.

SEPT. 10TH.

