Among the company at the Russian Governor's, was a half-breed native, who had been the leader
of an expedition equipped some years ago, for the discovery of what would here be styled the
North-East passage. The Russians reached Point Barrow shortly after the expedition under Mr
Thomas Simpson had reached the same point from the opposite direction. The climate seems to
be sufficiently trying, and during the four days at Sitka there was nearly one continued fall
of rain. The weather was cold and squally, snow had fallen, and the channels were traversed
by restless masses which had broken off from the glaciers. In short nothing could exceed the
dreariness of the coast.

This shore, of which so much has been said and written during the late Oregon negociations,
is described as the very scene for the steam-boat. Here are the Straits of Juan de Fuca; and
here Admiral Fonte penetrated up the more northerly inlets. They are the very region made for
the steam-boat, as in the case of a sailing vessel their dangers and delays would have been
tripled and quadrupled. But steam has also a power almost superstitious on the minds of the
natives; besides acting on their fears, it has in a great measure subdued their love of robbery
and violence. It has given the savage a new sense of the superiority of his white brother.

A striking instance of this feeling is given. After the arrival of the emigrants from Red River,
their guide, an Indian, took a short trip in the Beaver. When asked what he thought of her,
"Don't ask me," was his reply. "I cannot speak; my friends will think that I tell lies when
I let them know what I have seen. Indians are fools, and know nothing. I can see that the iron
machinery makes the ship go, but I cannot see what makes the iron machinery itself go." This
man, though intelligent, and partly civilized, was nevertheless so full of doubt and wonder
that he would not leave the vessel till he had got a certificate to the effect that he had
been on board of a ship which needed neither sails nor paddles,--any document in writing being
regarded by the Indians as unquestionable. Fort Vancouver--which will probably be the head
of a great colony, is about ninety miles from the sea, the Colombia in front of it, being a
mile in width--contains houses, stores, magazines, &c. Outside the fort, the dwellings of the
servants, &c. form a little village. The people of the establishment vary in number, according
to the season of the year, from one hundred and thirty to more than two hundred. Divine service
is regularly performed every Sunday in English to the Protestants. But at the time of this
journal there was unfortunately no English clergyman connected with the establishment.

Sir George himself now visited California, the region which the Mexican war is bringing into
prominent notice. The harbour of San Francisco is magnificent, the first view of the shore
presented a level sward of about a mile in depth, backed by a ridge of grassy slopes, the whole
pastured by numerous herds of cattle and horses, which, without a keeper or a fold, fattened
whether their owners waked or slept.

The harbour displays a sheet of water of about thirty miles in length by about twelve in breadth,
sheltered from every wind by an amphitheatre of green hills. But this sheet of water forms
only a part in the inland sea of San Francisco. Whaler's Harbour, at its own northern extremity,
communicates by a strait of about two miles in width with the bay of San Pedro, which leads
by means of a second strait into Fresh Water Bay, of nearly the same form and magnitude, and
which forms the receptacle, of two great rivers, draining vast tracts of country to the south-east
and north-east, which are navigable for inland craft, so that the harbour, besides its matchless
qualities as a port of refuge on this surf-beaten coast, is the outlet of an immense, fair,
and fertile region.

But the beauties of nature are useless when they fall into the hands of idlers and fools. Every
thing in those fine countries seems to be boasting and beggary. Every thing has been long sinking
into ruin, through mere indolence. The Californians once manufactured the fleeces of their
sheep into cloth. They are now too lazy to weave or spin, too lazy even to clip and wash the
raw material, and now the sheep have been literally destroyed to make more room for the horned
cattle.

They once made the dairy an object of attention, now neither butter nor cheese is to be found
in the province. They once produced in the Missions eighty thousand bushels of wheat and maize,--they
were lately buying flour at Monterey at the rate of £6 a sack. Beef was once plentiful,--they
were now buying salted salmon for the sea-store for one paltry vessel, which constituted the
entire line-of-battle of the Californian navy.

The author justly observes, that this wicked abuse of the soil and consequent poverty of the
people results wholly from "the objects of the colonisation." Thus the emigrants from England
to the northern colonies looked to subsistence from the fruits of labour; ploughed, harrowed,
and grew rich, and civilized. On the other hand the colonists of "New France" a name which
comprehended the valleys of the St Lawrence and Mississippi, dwindled and pined away, partly
because the golden dreams of the free trade carried them away from stationary pursuits, and
partly because the government considered them rather as soldiers than settlers. In like manner
Spanish America, with its Serras of silver, holding out to every adventurer the hope of earning
his bread without the sweat of his brow, became the paradise of idlers.

In California the herds of cattle, and the sale of their hides and tallow, offer so easy a
subsistence, that the population think of no other, and in consequence are poor, degenerate,
and dwindling. Their whole education consists in bullock hunting. In this view, unjust and
violent as may be the aggressions of the American arms, it is difficult to regret the transfer
of the territory into any hands which will bring these fine countries into the general use
of mankind, root out a race incapable of improvement, and fill the hills and valleys of this
mighty province with corn and man.

At present the produce of a bullock in hide, tallow, and horns, is about five dollars, (the
beef goes for nothing) of which the farmer's revenue is averaged at a dollar and a half. This
often makes up a large income. General Vallego, who had about eight thousand head of cattle,
must receive from this source about ten thousand dollars a-year. The former Missions, or Monkish
revenues, must have been very large; that of San Jose possessing thirty thousand head of cattle,
Santa Clara nearly half the number, and San Gabriel more than both together.

It must be acknowledged that the monks had made a handsome affair of holiness in the good old
times. Previously to the Mexican revolution their "missions" amounted, in the upper province
alone, to twenty-one, every one of course with its endowment on a showy scale. Every monk had
an annual stipend of four hundred dollars. But this was mere pocket-money; they had "donations
and bequests" from the living and from the dead, a most capacious source of opulence, and of
an opulence continually growing, constituting what was termed the pious fund of California.
Besides all these things, they had the cheap labour of eighteen thousand converts. But the
drones were to be suddenly smoked out of their hives. Mexico declared itself a republic; and,
as the first act of a republic, in every part of the world, is to plunder every body, the property
of the monks went in the natural way. The lands and beeves, the "donations and bequests were
made a national property," in 1825. Still some show of moderation was exhibited, and the names
and some of the offices of the missions were preserved. But, in 1836, the Californians took
the whole affair into their own hands, threw off the Central Government, and were "free, independent,"
and beggared. The Missions were then "secularized" at their ease. The Mexican government was
furious for a while, and threatened the Californians with all the thunders of its rage; but
the vengeance ended in the simple condition, that California should still acknowledge the Mexican
supremacy, taking her own way in all that had been done, was doing, and was to be done.

The travellers had now an opportunity of seeing the interior of a Californian mansion, the
house of the chief proprietor in this quarter, General Vallego.

We must acknowledge that Sir George Simpson would have much improved his volumes by striking
out the whole of this description. It is evident that he was received with civilities of every
kind;--he was provided with horses and attendants;--he was taken to see all the remarkable
features of the estate and the habits of its people; he was fêted, introduced to wife and daughters,
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, sung and danced for, and smiled on and talked with, as if
he had been a prince; and yet his whole account of this hospitality throws it into the most
repulsive light imaginable;--cold dinners, bad attendance, rude furniture, and so forth, form
the staple of his conceptions; and if his book should ever reach General Vallego's hands, which
it probably will, through the zeal of American republication, we can easily imagine that he
will become cautious in his hospitality for the time to come. We, at least, shall not extend
the vexation of this Spanish gentleman by quoting any part of this unfortunate bevue. We say
this with regret. But this style of repaying generous hospitality cannot be too distinctly
reproved, for the sake of all future travellers who may want, not merely hospitality, but protection.

The next subject of description is Monterey, which has lately assumed a peculiar interest,
as one of the objects of the American invasion. The Bay of Monterey forms a segment of a circle
with a chord of about eighteen miles. Monterey had always been the seat of government, though
it consisted of but a few buildings. But, since the revolution of 1836, it has expanded into
a population of about seven hundred souls. The town occupies a plain, bounded by a lofty ridge.
The dwellings are the reverse of pompous, being all built of mud bricks. The houses are remarkable
for a paucity of windows, glass being inordinately dear; even parchment almost unattainable,
and the artists in window-making charging three dollars a-day!

But, to the Californians, perhaps this privation of light is not an evil. While it makes the
rooms cooler, it cannot, by any possibility, interfere with the occupations of those who do
nothing. The bed affords a curious contrast to the rest of the furniture. While the apartments
exhibit a deal-table, badly made chairs, probably a Dutch clock, and an old looking-glass,
the bed "challenges admiration by snowy white sheets, fringed with lace, a pile of soft pillows,
covered with the finest linen or the richest satin, and a well-arranged drapery of costly and
tasteful curtains." Still this bed is "but a whited sepulchre," with a wool mattress--"the
impenetrable stronghold of millions of----." We leave the rest to the imagination.

The history of "Political Causes and Effects" would make a curious volume; and it would admirably
display, at once the profound agency of Providence, and the shortsightedness of human policy.
It would scarcely be supposed that the devastation of Europe, and the sack of Berlin, Vienna,
and Moscow, found their origin in a Spanish treaty, on the banks of the Mississippi, half a
century before.

The power of France in the interior of America, which had extended from Canada to Louisiana,
and which formed a line of posts for its boundary along this immense internal frontier, kept
the British Colonies in a state of constant alarm; and, by consequence, in a state of continual
dependence on England. But the English possession of Canada, in 1763, and the cession of Louisiana
to Spain at the same period, as they lessened the alarms, loosened the allegiance of the British
colonies. The next steps were more obvious. The war of the United States, in which France was
an auxiliary, inflamed the French population with the hope of breaking down the strength of
England and the aristocracy of France. But the expense of equipping the French allied force
fell heavy on an exchequer already burthened by the showy extravagance of the Regent Orleans,
and by the gross profligacies of Louis XV. To relieve the exchequer, the States General were
summoned; and from that moment began the Revolution. The European war was the result of a republican
government, and the conquest of the Continent the result of placing Napoleon on the throne
of the empire. What further results may be still preparing are beyond our knowledge; but it
can scarcely be conceived that the chain is yet finally broken.

But before we take leave of California, we must do it the justice to speak of San Barbara,
which, as the author rather emphatically expresses it, is to Monterey "what the parlour is
to the kitchen."

The bay is an unfavourable one, being exposed to the "worst winds of the worst season." But
the town having been selected as the favourite retreat of the more respectable functionaries
of the province, Santa Barbara exhibits the charms of aristocratic manners. The houses, externally,
are superior to any others on the coast, and, internally, exhibit taste in their furniture
and ornament. The ladies excite the author's pen into absolute rapture; their sparkling eyes
and glossy hair, are, in themselves, sufficient to negative the idea of tameness or insipidity,
while their sylph-like figures exhibit fresh graces at every step. This is supported by the
more important qualities, of "being by far the more industrious half of the community, and
performing their household duties with cheerfulness and pride."

The men are a handsome race, and the greatest dandies imaginable, completely modelled on the
Andalusian Majo, and displaying the finest linen, the most embroidered pantaloons, and the
most glittering jackets in the western world. Of course, it cannot be expected of any Spaniards
that they should do much, and beaux so fine cannot be expected to do any thing. Accordingly,
his day is spent in riding from house to house, on a horse as fine as himself, a living machine
of trappings, and the nights in dancing, billiard-playing, and flirting.

In all countries where serious things are habitually turned into trifles, trifles become serious
things. "The balls, in fact, seem more like a matter of business than any thing else that is
done in California. For whole days beforehand, sweetmeats are laboriously prepared in the greatest
variety, and from beginning to end of the festivities, which have been known to last several
successive nights, so as to make the performers, after wearing out their pumps, trip it in
sea-boots, both men and women displaying as much gravity as if attending the funeral of their
friends."

A still more humanising portion of their tastes is their passion for music. The guitar is heard
in every house. Father, mother, and child are all playing and singing; and, to the praise of
their taste be it spoken, playing nothing but the fandangoes, seguidillas, and ballads of Spain;
the truest, purest, and most touching of all music; well worth all the hammered harmonies of
the German school, and all the long-winded and laborious bravuras of the Italian. The Spanish
music is the most refined, and yet the most natural, in the world.

We are glad to see this experienced judge of men and things speaking of the Californians as
"a happy people possessing the means of physical pleasure to the full," even though he qualifies
the opinion by their "knowing no higher kind of enjoyment."

It is true, that the Englishman, who knows what intellectual enjoyment is, will not abandon
that highest, though most toilsome, of all gratifications, for inferior indulgences; but it
would be a fortunate hour for the Englishman when he could get rid of some portion of the toil
that wears away his life, in exchange for the lighthearted pleasures and simple occupations
of foreign existence. Nor is there any man who less prefers the dogged round of his cheerless
exertions, or who is more genuinely susceptible of essential enjoyment. We even think that
the cultivated Englishman has a finer relish for enjoyment than the man of any other country.
The caperings of the Frenchman, or the grimaces of the Italian, have but little connexion with
the mind. All foreigners seem wretched when they have no physical excitement. There is not
a more miserable object on earth, than a Frenchman wandering through the streets of London
on a Sunday, when he can neither see the print shops in the day, nor go to the play at night.
The German is heart-broken for the same reason, and shrouds himself and his sorrow in double
clouds of smoke. The Italian would worship Diana of Ephesus, or the Great African Snake, if
its pageantry, or puppet-show, would enable him to get through the day of closed shops and
no opera! Yet, contemptible as this restless hunting after nothings is, it would be fortunate
for us if we could qualify the severity and constancy of our national toil by some mixture
of the lighter pursuits of the Continent.

The fertility of California is boundless; it produces every thing that human appetite can desire.
In the Mission-garden of San Gabriel were produced grapes, oranges, lemons, olives, figs, bananas,
plums, peaches, apples, pears, pomegranates, raspberries, strawberries, &c. &c., while in the
adjoining Mission were found in addition, tobacco, the plantain, the cocoa-nut, the indigo
plant, and the sugar cane.

But Nature is nothing, in this country, without a miracle; and the history of every village
probably furnishes its legend. The Missions, however, may be presumed to be the peculiar favourites
of Heaven.

"When Padre Pedro Cambon, and Padre Somera, were selecting a site for the Mission, escorted
by ten soldiers, a multitude of Indians, armed, presented themselves, and setting up horrid
yells, seemed determined to oppose its establishment. The fathers, fearing that war would ensue,
took out a piece of cloth with the image of our Lady upon it, and held it up in view of the
barbarians. This was no sooner done, than the whole were quiet, being subdued by the sight
of this most precious image; and throwing on the ground their bows and arrows, their two captains
came running to lay the beads, which they had round their necks, at the feet of the Sovereign
Queen, in proof of their tender regard." We recommend the trial of this holy Cloth on General
Taylor.

But there is no limit to the richness of this region. The valley of the Zulares, in the neighbourhood,
would support millions of people. Its lakes and rivers all abound in fish, its forests have
all kinds of trees, some of them growing to a size which, but for the force of testimony, would
be incredible. One of these is stated by Humboldt as of one hundred and eighteen feet in girth.
"But this is a walking-stick compared with another at Bodega, as described to Sir George by
Governor Etholine, of Sitka." It is thirty-six Russian fathoms (seven feet each) in span, and
seventy-five in height; so that, if tapered into a perfect cone, it would contain nearly twenty-two
thousand tons of bark and timber. In addition, the valley contains immense herds of wild horses,
in troops of several thousands each. What a country will this be, when it shall fall into the
hands of an intelligent people!

The last of the five posts, San Diego, is, next to San Francisco, the best harbour in the province.
Thus, Upper California contains, at its opposite extremities, two of the best harbours on the
Pacific Ocean; each of them being enhanced in value by the distance of any others worthy of
the name, San Francisco being nearly one thousand miles from Port Discovery in the north, and
San Diego six hundred miles from the Bay of Magdalena in the south.

That in the hands of any vigorous possessors this country would form a most powerful kingdom,
is beyond all question; and Sir George Simpson evidently thinks that it might easily be acquired,
and with a legitimate claim too, by England. But the still higher question is the policy of
a perpetual increase of territory. England already has in America a larger extent of territory
than she can people for five hundred years to come. But the possession of California, and perhaps
of the whole extent of the Mexican provinces, is on the eve of decision; the American invasion
has found no resistance that can deserve the name. The Mexicans fly in every quarter, and a
few discharges of cannon put them to flight by thousands. At this moment the whole Mexican
Republic, equal in size to half a dozen European States, appears to be crumbling into fragments.
The rambling expeditions of the Americans are ravaging it in all directions with impunity,
and armies which might have been long since annihilated by a mere guerilla war, have been suffered
to march from city to city, with scarcely more resistance than a cattle-stealing skirmish.
By the last intelligence, San Juan d' Ulloa has fallen, and Vera Cruz has capitulated after
a siege of only three days and a half. The castle is the strongest fortification in the Western
World--and, as Napoleon said of Malta, "It is lucky that it had somebody inside to open the
gates for us:" the garrison of this fortress seems to have been placed there merely for the
purpose of surrendering it. But, whatever may be the fate of men who had such a fortress to
defend, and yet whose defence actually cost the assailants but seventeen killed! there can
be but one feeling of commiseration for the unhappy inhabitants of Vera Cruz, on whom was rained,
day and night, a shower of shot and shell amounting to more than seven thousand of those tremendous
missiles. It is computed that the slaughter, and that slaughter chiefly of women and children,
amounts to thousands. These are terrible things, even where they may be supposed the necessities
of war. But here we can discover no necessity--Vera Cruz was no fortification, it was nearly
an open town. We recollect no similar instance of a bombardment. In Europe, it has long been
a rule of military morals, that no open city shall ever be bombarded. We believe it to be the
boast of the first living soldier in the world--and we could have no more honourable one--that
he never suffered a city to be bombarded; from the obvious fact, that the chief victims were
the helpless inhabitants, while the soldiery are sheltered by the casemates and bomb-proofs.

At all events, we must regard the contest as decided. The Government has exhibited nothing
more than a sullen resolution; and the people little more than the apathy of their own cattle;
the troops have exhibited no evidence of discipline, and the only resource of the Finance has
been in the wild projects of an empty Exchequer. Whether the United States will be the more
prosperous for this conquest, is a question of time alone. Whether the facility of the conquest
may not make the multitude frantic for general aggression,--whether the military men of the
States may not obtain a popularity and assume a power which has been hitherto confined to civil
life,--whether the attractions of military career may not turn the rising generation from the
pursuits of trade and tillage, to the idle, or the ferocious life of the American campaigner,--and
whether the pressure of public debt, the necessity for maintaining their half-savage conquests
by an army, and the passion for territorial aggrandisement, may not urge them to a colonial
war with England,--are only parts of the great problem which the next five-and-twenty years
will compel the American Republic to solve.

At the same time, we cannot avoid looking upon the invasion of Mexico as a portion of that
extraordinary and mysterious agency which is now shaking all the great stagnant districts of
the world; which has already awaked Turkey in Europe and in Asia Minor; which has brought Egypt
into civilised action; which has broken down the barbarism of the Algerines, and planted the
French standard in place of the furies and profligacies of African Mahometanism. Deeply deprecating
the guilt of those aggressions, and condemning the crimes by which they have been sustained,
we cannot but regard changes so unexpected, so powerful, and so simultaneous, as the operation
of a higher power than man's, with objects altogether superior to the shortsightedness of man,
and amply bearing the character of working good out of evil, which belongs to the history of
Divine Providence in all the ages of the world.

There is one peculiarity in these volumes which we cannot sufficiently applaud, and that is,
the thoroughly English spirit in which they are written. Without weak partiality, for the reasons
are every where assigned; without narrow prejudice, for the facts are in all instances stated;
and without derogating from the merits of other nations, the work is calculated to give a just
conception of the value of England to the world.

On his return from the Sandwich Isles--an interesting portion of his travels, to which we have
not now time to advert in detail--and preparing to start from the Russian post of New Archangel
by a five months' journey through the Russian empire, he gives a glance at what he has done.

"I have," says he, "threaded my way round nearly half the globe, traversing about 220 degrees
of longitude, and upwards of 100 of latitude, barely one fourth of this by the ocean. Notwithstanding
all this, I have uniformly felt more at home, with the exception of my first sojourn at Sitka,
than I should have felt in Calais. I have every where seen our race, under a great variety
of circumstances, either actually or virtually invested with the attributes of sovereignty."

After a few words on the vigour of the English blood, as exhibited in the commerce, intelligence,
and activity of the United States, he returns to the immediate possessions and prowess of England.
"I have seen the English posts which stud the wilderness from the Canadian lakes to the Pacific
Ocean. I have seen English adventurers with that innate power which makes every individual,
whether Briton or American, a real representative of his country, monopolising the trade, and
influencing the destinies of California. And lastly, I have seen the English merchants of a
barbarian Archipelago, which promises, under their guidance, to become the centre of the traffic
of the east and the west, of the new world and the old. In saying all this, I have seen less
than half the grandeur of the English race. How insignificant in comparison are all the other
nations of the earth, one nation alone excepted. Russia and Great Britain literally gird the
globe where either continent has the greatest breadth, a fact which, taken in connexion with
their early annals, can scarcely fail to be regarded as the work of a special Providence. After
the fall of the Roman empire, a scanty and obscure people suddenly burst on the west and east,
as the dominant race of the times; one swarm of the Normans making its way to England, while
another was establishing its supremacy over the Sclavonians of the Borysthenes, the two being
to meet in opposite directions at the end of a thousand years."

He regards the gigantic power of Russia as in an unconscious co-partnership with England in
the grand cause of commerce and civilisation. He also makes the curious and true remark that,
notwithstanding the astonishing successes of the Normans in Europe, they were never numerous
enough to establish their language in any of the conquered countries. Their unparalleled successes,
therefore, seem to express the idea that those feeble bands of warriors were strengthened every
where to accomplish the purposes of Providence.

We now come to the overland journey to Siberia. On the 23d of July, they reached the port of
Ochotsk, where, however, they were met by masses of floating ice. Here Sir George had the first
intelligence from England, which brought to his English heart the glad tidings of the birth
of a Prince of Wales. They found this settlement a collection of huts on a shingly beach. The
population is about 800 souls. A more dreary scene can scarcely be conceived than the surrounding
country. Not a tree, and even scarcely a green blade is to be seen within miles of the town.
The climate is on a par with the soil. The summer consists of three months of damp and chilly
weather, during great part of which the snow still covers the hills, and the ice chokes the
harbour, and this is succeeded by nine months of dreary winter. But when men find fault with
such a climate as this, the fact is, that the fault is their own. Those climates were never
intended for the residence of man; they were intended for the white bear, the seal, the whale,
and the fur-bearing animals. To those inhabitants, they are perfectly adapted. If the rage
of conquest, or the eagerness for gain, fixes human beings in the very empire of winter, they
are intruders, and must suffer for their unsuitable choice of a locale.

The principal food of the inhabitants is fish. On fish they feed themselves; their dogs--which
are equivalent to their carriage horses--their cattle, and their poultry, are also chiefly
fed on fish. All other provisions are ruinously dear. Flour costs twenty-eight rubles the pood,--(a
ruble is worth about a franc, the pood is thirty-six English pounds.) Beef is so dear as to
be regarded as a treat, and wines and groceries have to pay a land carriage of seven thousand
miles.

Here, too, the people drink tea in the style in which it was introduced in more primitive days
into Europe. It is of the kind known as brick tea, being made up in cakes, and is consumed
in great quantities by the lower orders in Siberia, being made into a thick soup, with the
addition of butter and salt.

On the 27th of the month, they began their journey across Siberia. After leaving the shore,
and boating the river Ochota, to an encampment where they were to meet their horses, hired
at the rate of forty-five rubles a horse, on an agreement to be conveyed to Yakutsh in eighteen
days, they struck into the country, which exhibited forests of pine, their progress being about
four or five miles an hour. The Yakuti appear to be very industrious; young and old, male and
female, being always occupied in some useful employment. When not engaged in travelling or
farming, men and boys make saddles, harness, &c.; while the women and girls keep house, dress
skins, prepare clothing, and attend to the dairy. They are also remarkably kind to strangers,
for milk and cream, the best things they had to give, were freely offered in every village.
This was the 10th of July, yet the snow was still partially lying on the ground. From day to
day they met caravans of horses; and one day they were startled by the shouts of a party at
the head of them. Their next sight was a herd of cattle running wildly in all directions, and
the cause was seen in a huge she-bear and her cub moving off at a round trot. On this route,
the bears are both fierce and numerous. The country had now become more fertile; there was
no want of flowering plants, and the forests were enlivened by the warbling of birds, which,
contrasted as it was with the deathlike silence of the American woods, was peculiarly grateful
to the ear. In the course of the day, the vexatious incident occurred of meeting the courier,
with the letters from England, which had been looked for so anxiously on the arrival of the
travellers in Siberia; but the bags of course could not be opened on the road.

The presence of the Cossack, who attended the party, was of great importance in quickening
the movements of the natives; but they seemed kind and good-natured, full of civility to the
strangers, and not without some degree of education. The Yakuti have a singular mode of estimating
distances. In Germany, a common measure of distance is the time that it takes to smoke a pipe.
In this part of Siberia, they take as their unit the time necessary for boiling a kettle of
a particular sort of food. They tell you, that such and such a place is so many kettles off,
or half a kettle, or, as the case may be, only part of a kettle.

At last they arrive at the Lena. This is described as one of the grandest rivers in the world.
At a distance of thirteen hundred versts from the sea, (three versts are equal to two miles,)
it is from five to six miles wide. Its entire length is not less than four thousand versts.
The word Lena implies lazy--a name justified by the circuitous flowing of its stream. At Yakutsk,
the seat of the Governor, they were received with great civility in this capital of the province,
latitude sixty-two north, and longitude one hundred and thirty east. The extreme temperature
of summer and winter is almost beyond belief, the thermometer having, risen in the shade to
106° of Fahrenheit, and in winter having fallen to 83° below zero--making a difference of 189°.
In this district are the enormous deposits of mammoth bones. Spring after spring, the alluvial
banks of the lakes and rivers crumbling under the thaw have given up their dead; and the islands
opposite to the mouth of the Yana, and, as there was reason for believing, even the bed of
the ocean itself, teems with those mysterious memorials of antiquity. The question is, how
do those bones come there? Sir George, after giving the opinions of some of the professors
of geology, conceives the most natural account of the phenomenon to be, that those animals
or their bones were swept from the great Tartarian pasturages of Cobi, by the waters of the
Deluge, towards the ocean. We must acknowledge that this has long been our own opinion. It
must be remembered that the Scriptural account states the rising of the Deluge to have been
gradual. The rain fell forty days and nights. All living things would of course make their
way to the heights to escape the rising inundation of the valleys. The cattle thus grouped
together in immense herds, (the buffalos in the prairies at the present day sometimes exceed
five thousand in one pasturage,) thus gathered into one mass, would be finally submerged, and
swept away in whatever irresistible current rushed over the spot on which they stood. The frost
of the region, which penetrates the earth to the depth apparently of some hundred feet, would
thenceforth preserve them from decay. The tusks form an article of considerable trade, the
ivory selling from a shilling to one and ninepence a pound, according to the perfection of
the tusks.

