It is especially significant that each one of the Negro Reconstruction Congressmen from South
Carolina, namely Cain,[28] De Large,[29] Elliott,[30] Rainey,[31] Ransier,[32] and Smalls[33]
were members of the State Constitutional Convention of 1868. Two of them, Cain and Rainey,
had been formerly State Senators; Smalls had served two terms in the Senate and four in the
House; while each of the others had been members for one term or more in the lower branch of
the legislature. Ransier, moreover, had held, prior to his election to Congress, the high office
of lieutenant-governor of the State; Elliott had served as adjutant-general, and Smalls had
held successively the offices of lieutenant-colonel, brigadier-general and major-general in
the State militia.

Of the two South Carolinians who served in Congress after the Reconstruction, Thomas E. Miller[34]
was for four terms a member of the lower chamber of the State legislature and for one term
a member of the Senate. Furthermore, he was for one term a school commissioner of his county,
and received also his party's nomination for the office of lieutenant-governor of the State.
Indeed, of the entire South Carolina group, Murray, alone, seems to have been elected to Congress
without previously having held public office.[35] Jefferson F. Long,[36] of Georgia, was not
unlike Mr. Murray in that the former had never held public office. In this, his experience
differed from that of Walls, of Florida, who had been a member of the Florida State Senate.

Alabama sent to Congress three Negroes, Turner,[37] Rapier,[38] and Haralson.[39] Of these
men Haralson alone had had experience in the legislature prior to his election to Congress,
having served in both branches of that body. Turner was elected in 1868 to the city council
of Selma. Later he became tax collector of Dallas County, but because of his inability to secure
honest men as assistants, resigned the office. The third member of this group, James T. Rapier,
served as an assessor and later as a collector of internal revenue in his State.

The two Negro United States Senators, Hiram R. Revels[40] and B. K. Bruce,[41] both of Mississippi,
and Representative John R. Lynch[42] of the same State, had all served in public office before
they were sent to Congress. Senator Revels had held several local offices in Vicksburg, while
Senator Bruce, before he came to the Senate, had been sheriff, a member of the Mississippi
levee board, and for three years the tax collector of Bolivar County. John R. Lynch, on the
other hand, had served not only as justice of the peace, but also two terms in the lower house
of the legislature, during the latter one of which he was the Speaker of that body. Unlike
the Congressmen from Mississippi, Nash[43] of Louisiana held office for the first time when
his state elected him a representative to Congress.

Accessible records and impartial and unbiased historians support the contention that with a
few exceptions the record of these Negro functionaries was honorable. Corrupt government was
not always the work of the Negro. In the chapter on reconstruction in his The Negro in Our
History, C. G. Woodson states that local, state, and federal administrative offices, which
offered the most frequent opportunity for corruption, were seldom held by Negroes, but rather
by the local white men and by those from the North who had come South to seek their fortunes.
In many respects selfish and sometimes lacking in principle, these men became corrupt in several
States, administering the government for their own personal ends. "Most Negroes who have served
in the South," says he, "came out of office with honorable records. Such service these Negroes
rendered in spite of the fact that this was not the rule in that day." New York, according
to the same authority, was dominated by the Tweed ring, and the same white men who complained
of Negro domination robbed the governments of the Southern States of thousands of dollars after
the rule of the master class was reestablished.

NEGRO CONGRESSMEN IN ACTION

With the facts concerning the earlier experiences of these Congressmen in public life a matter
of record, attention may now be centered upon the second aspect of the question of their capacity
for public service--namely, that of their reactions to the great public questions of their
day. Perhaps this topic may be most properly treated first by determining what were the problems
of greatest public moment during the period in which these men were in Congress. From the year
1871--the period of service of the first Negro in Congress--throughout the first year of the
administration of Rutherford B. Hayes, there were brought prominently before the public mind
the questions of reconstruction, economic, social, and political, in the North and West as
well as in the South. The exploitation of the public domain in the West, the development of
transcontinental railroads and other means of communication, the plea for sound money, the
economic regeneration of the South, the proper adjustment of the social relations between the
two races living in that section, and the readjustment of political control in the former Confederate
States were the great issues upon which, during this period, the attention of the nation was
focused.

In the solution of some of these problems the Negro was intimately involved. What was to be
his place in the scheme of social adjustment in the South? What part was he to play in the
economic regeneration of that section? How and to what extent should he maintain the political
power delegated to him by the war amendments? Indeed, of utmost importance to the Negro was
the proper solution of three perplexing problems: first, to secure to themselves the civil
rights so freely exercised by other groups in the nation; second, to obtain national funds
to aid education; third, to determine whether their former masters should be relieved of their
political disabilities. It was to the solution of these problems, therefore, that the Negro
Congressmen of that period especially addressed themselves.

The problem of civil rights, however, did not immediately take precedence. With the passage
by Congress, in 1875, of a measure known as the Civil Rights Bill, which was supplementary
to measures of the same sort previously enacted, the Negroes of the country were accorded the
rights granted by the Constitution to all other citizens of the United States. The subsequent
approval of this bill by the president, and the well-known policy toward the Southern States
then adopted, served to remove from the fore of American politics the various issues arising
from the larger problems of the social and political reconstruction of the South.

Economic questions then had more opportunity for consideration. A new era in the nation's development
was ushered in, and with it came new issues and new policies. The question of the exploitation
of the public domain in the West and that of transcontinental railway construction had long
been before the nation and still remained, but in lieu of the others of the earlier period,
there arose also such questions as the free coinage of silver, the bimetallic monetary standard,
tariff for protection or for revenue only, and the Chinese immigration. Despite the new character
of the great problems before the public forum, and of the consequent relegation to a minor
position of national importance the problems of reconstruction in the South, the issues of
peculiar interest to the Negro were not so aptly settled. Indeed, it is to the discredit of
the Supreme Court of the United States that in all cases coming before that body in which there
was at issue a right granted by the Constitution to the freedmen, efforts were made to evade
the real issue, or to interpret the laws so as to contravene the intent of the framers of the
Constitution.[44] To urge the protection of the Negro in his exercise of the rights and privileges
granted by the Constitution, to secure the enactment of laws with the purpose to secure to
him a greater measure of opportunity for social advancement, to oppose the enactment of laws
proposing to retard such progress, to stimulate a healthy public opinion favorable to the Negro's
cause, to protest against every injustice, great or small, meted out to him, became, as never
before, the imperative duties of the Negro members of Congress. Whatever other time and energy
remained might be directed towards the solution of the other important issues before the public,
but for the most part, the Negro Congressmen were of necessity compelled to defend those interests
peculiar to the freedmen. The petitions which these Congressmen presented, the resolutions
which they offered, the amendments which they proposed, the bills which they introduced or
supported, and the issues which they discussed or debated, will enable one to ascertain to
what extent these men viewed aright the needs of their constituents and of the nation. Because
of the constitutional right of all citizens to petition Congress for a redress of grievances,
however, Congressmen have, in general, considered it a duty to present to Congress the petitions
of their constituents, whatever their nature may be. An examination of these, therefore, does
not always assist in the effort to determine the interests of a statesman. The sole justification
for their consideration in this case is the fact that they have formed, in many instances,
the basis of the resolutions, motions and bills which were subsequently introduced.

While petitions of varying natures were presented by all of these legislators, three classes,
particularly, claimed the attention of practically every one of them. These petitions sought
the relief either of an individual or of an institution suffering from some misfortune of the
war, made application for a pension, or requested the adjustment of a claim. Of greater significance,
however, were the petitions which, while not so generally popular, led often to the introduction
of legislative measures. Conspicuous among these were those seeking to remove the political
disabilities of former secessionists, those praying that undesirable laws or privileges be
abrogated, those advocating the passage of bills, those praying an investigation of the political
methods used in certain States, those directing attention to conditions which merited legislative
enactment, those praying an appropriation by Congress for the construction of public buildings,
the promotion of public works, and the making of local improvements, and those endorsing movements
for the good of the body politic.

One of the first problems of reconstruction that claimed the attention of the Negro Congressmen
arose from the measures proposing to grant amnesty to the former Confederates who, by a provision
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, had been declared ineligible
to vote and to hold office. In reference to this matter, Jefferson F. Long, a representative
from Georgia to the Forty-first Congress, spoke in a manner reflecting the attitude of many
of the Negro Congressmen who were to follow him. His forceful protest maintained that any modification
of the test oath as then administered, having the purpose to bring about a general removal
of political disabilities, would effect the subjugation of the loyal men of the South to the
disloyal. It would, moreover, appear to the Ku Klux Klan to be an indorsement of their campaign
of lawlessness, depredation, and crime, fostered and abetted by the men whose political disabilities
it was then being sought to remove.[45]

Speaking on the enforcement act, on which he stated first his own position and later that of
the Republican Party in his State, Revels, the Senator from Mississippi, said: "I am in favor
of removing the disabilities of those upon whom they are imposed in the South just as fast
as they give evidence of having become loyal and of being loyal. If you can find one man in
the South who gives evidence of the fact that he has ceased to renounce the laws of Congress
as unconstitutional, has ceased to oppose them, and respects them and favors the carrying of
them out, I am in favor of removing his disabilities; and if you can find one hundred men that
the same is true of, I am in favor of removing their disabilities. If you can find a whole
State that this is true of, I am in favor of removing the disabilities of all its people."[46]

Revels at that time had reasonable grounds for supporting amnesty, but conditions soon changed.
Speaking in the 42nd Congress as it regarded the enforcement of the 14th Amendment, Rainey
felt that too much amnesty had led to the murderous activities of the disloyal after they had
reached the point of acquiescing. He said:[47] "If the Constitution which we uphold and support
as the fundamental law of the United States is inadequate to afford security to life, liberty,
and property--if, I say, this inadequacy is proven, then its work is done, then it should no
longer be recognized as the magna charta of a great and free people; the sooner it is set aside
the better for the liberties of the nation." Another member of the 42nd Congress, Robert C.
De Large of South Carolina, while speaking on the bill for the removal of political disabilities,
made it quite clear that he would not support the bill unless the gentlemen for it would support
a measure to protect the loyal people of the South.[48]

Notable among the speeches on the question of amnesty was that made by Elliott protesting against
a bill to this effect by Beck of Kentucky. Contending that the men now seeking relief were
responsible for the crimes perpetrated against the loyal men of the South, Elliott maintained
that the passage of the bill would be nothing less than the paying of a premium on disloyalty
and treason at the expense of those who had remained loyal. Pointing out the cause of their
disfranchisement, he demanded in the name of the "law-abiding people of his constituency, whites
as well as Negroes," the rejection of this bill and the protection of those whose "only offense
was their adherence to the principles of freedom and justice."[49] That the proposed bill was
defeated[50] was perhaps in some measure due to his masterful arraignment of its purposes.

Contemporaneous with the question of amnesty, and lasting throughout the thirty years during
which Negroes served in Congress, the problem of securing civil rights for the freedmen or
of protecting them in the exercise of such rights demanded, to a greater extent than any other,
the energy and efforts of the Negro Congressmen. Indeed, but few of the men of this group failed
during their careers in Congress to register their opinions on this all-absorbing matter.

Remarking at length on the Georgia bill,[51] Senator Revels spoke out fearlessly in the defense
of his race. He defended the Negroes against charges of antagonism and servile strife, lauded
the conduct of Negro soldiers in the Civil War and the part they played in saving the Union.
He called attention to the loyalty of the Negroes in protecting the white women and their homes,
with the knowledge that the masters were engaged in the prosecution of a war the success of
which would have meant permanent bondage to the blacks. He asserted that the Negroes bore toward
their former masters no revengeful thoughts, no hatreds, no animosities. He recounted the iniquities
of the bill then before the body, prayed the protection of those whose rights were thereby
threatened, and appealed to Congress to give to the reconstructed State such direction and
support as would best meet its most imperative needs.

The discussion of the civil rights bill gave rise to one of Robert Brown Elliott's greatest
speeches.[52] Arising to defend the bill, he proceeded to refute the proposition advanced by
Beck of Kentucky and supported by Stephens of Georgia, that Congress had no power to legislate
against a plain discrimination made by State laws or customs against any person or class of
persons within its limits. In reference to the decision of the Slaughter House Cases of Louisiana,
which the gentlemen had advanced in support of their thesis, Elliott pointed out the difference
in principle between the issues there involved and those at hand. In the former case the court
held the act in question to be "a legitimate and warrantable exercise of the police power of
the State in regulating the business of stock landing and slaughtering in the city of New Orleans
and the territory immediately contiguous." In this case, however, the evils complained of comprehended
"the exclusion of certain classes of persons from public inns, from the saloons and tables
of the steamboat, from the sleeping-cars on railways, and from the right of sepulchre in public
burial-grounds." It followed, therefore, that it is within the authority of Congress to see
that no State deny to one class of citizens or persons, rights which are common to other citizens,
unless it can be shown to be for the good of all, or pursuant to the legitimate exercise of
its police power. Rejecting such classification of the case at hand and pointing out from the
decision of the Slaughter House Cases the express recognition of Congress to pass such a bill
as the one then under discussion, he concluded that the Constitution warranted the passage
of the bill, the Supreme Court sanctioned it, and justice demanded it.[53] Elliott submitted
also a resolution directing the Judiciary Committee to report a civil rights bill.[54]

The civil rights of the Negroes constituted the general theme of the remarks made by Alonzo
J. Ransier, a representative from South Carolina in the Forty-third Congress. In the first
instance he spoke in refutation of the allegements of certain members of the opposition to
the effect that the mass of Negroes did not want civil rights. Ransier sought mainly to show,
by the presentation[55] of data in form of resolutions from Negro bodies and conventions, the
intense desire of the race for civil rights. During the course of these remarks, Ransier served
notice of his intention to offer to the civil rights bill an amendment to prevent the disqualification
of competent citizens for service as jurors in any court in the nation because of "race, color,
or previous condition of servitude." The amendment would provide also for the repeal of all
laws, statutes, and ordinances, national or State, which were devised to discriminate against
any citizen on account of color by the use of the word "white."[56]

The civil rights of the Negro found nowhere a more ardent champion than James T. Rapier, a
representative from Alabama in the Forty-third Congress. In a speech on the measure supplementary
to the civil rights bill, Rapier made a lucid analysis of the anomalous position then occupied
by the Negro in the United States. Pointing out that Negroes were accorded political rights
without the civil, he deplored the whole situation and challenged the truth of the statement
that America is the asylum for the oppressed. Averring that the problem was national in scope,
he asserted the constitutional authority of Congress to solve it. Denying the contentions of
Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia, Rapier deplored the apparent inability of that gentleman
to comprehend the new order ushered in since the formerly sat in Congress. Stephens, he said,
maintained the ideals of the old South. Thus, despite the decision of the war that national
rights are paramount to those of the States, Stephens urged that it is the prerogative of the
States to confer civil rights upon the Negro, and contended that such action should be left
to the States. He thereby offered no constitutional objection to the bestowal of civil rights
upon the Negro, but advanced a principle, the acceptance of which would forever preclude his
enjoying them. To this proposition Rapier could not assent. That the Negro was considered to
possess no rights under the Constitution, he maintained, was fully demonstrated by Kentucky
and other Southern States, in which they were denied the privilege of testifying in court against
a white man, were refused the right to education by the destruction of their schools and the
visitation of violence upon their teachers, and were prevented by the Ku Klux Klan from exercising
their right of suffrage. Such actions, he insisted, were in conflict with the contention that
the States would eventually confer upon Negroes civil rights. In conclusion he declared that
the Negro had earned all the rights that he then exercised as well as those enjoyed by other
citizens, that the current conditions constituted a stricture on the fair name of America,
and that the solution of the problem lay in the immediate passage by Congress of the Civil
Rights Bill then being considered.[57]

Not unlike his colleagues, Richard H. Cain, a representative from South Carolina to the Forty-third
and Forty-fifth Congresses, gave to the matter of civil rights much of his time and energy.
Replying in part to Vance of North Carolina, Cain denied that the Civil Rights Bill, if passed,
would be without the limits of the Constitution or that it would enforce "social equality,"
maintaining that the regulation of that condition was without the province of legislation.
Cain asserted that the Negroes of South Carolina did not enjoy, in public places, all the "rights,
privileges and immunities" accorded to other citizens and showed that the admission of Negro
students to the University of South Carolina had not effected its destruction. He did not believe
that the passage of the bill would alienate from the Negroes the white men of the South who
were then friendly to them. Cain reviewed, furthermore, the history of the part played by the
Negro in the economic and industrial development of the nation, pointed out the importance
of giving to him, in every State, the best possible school facilities, asserted the right of
the Negro by statutory enactment to his full civil liberties, and insisted that in the name
of justice he should demand for himself all the rights, privileges and immunities accorded
to other citizens.[58] Conforming in principle to the doctrine that he had pronounced, Cain
introduced before Congress a bill supplementary to the Civil Rights Act.[59]

Much of the energy of James E. O'Hara, a representative from North Carolina, in the Forty-eighth
and Forty-ninth Congresses, was directed toward the protection of the Negro in the exercise
of his civil rights.[60] During the course of his remarks on the bill to regulate interstate
commerce, he offered an amendment to the effect that any person or persons having purchased
a ticket to be conveyed from one State to another, or paid the required fare, should receive
the same treatment and be offered equal facilities and accommodation as are furnished all other
persons holding tickets of the same class, without discrimination. In support of this amendment,
he asserted the constitutional right of Congress to regulate commerce between the States, and
that the action contemplated by his amendment came within the scope of this constitutional
power. Denying that it was class or race legislation, he maintained that it was in line with
the enlightened point of view of the age. The amendment was passed.[61] His opponents, however,
were not sufficiently progressive to leave his victory intact.

A defense of the civil rights of the Negro was brought prominently to the fore in the Fifty-first
Congress. In his remarks on the affairs of South Carolina,[62] Thomas E. Miller, a representative
from that State, declared that the Negroes of South Carolina were suffering from several distinct
causes. Among these causes he named lynch law, the petty system of theft which deprived them
of the fruits of their daily toil, and injustice in the courts in which they had no rights
where their interests and those of the whites conflicted. He demanded for them trial by jury,
pay for their work, and the assurance that their lynchers would not become also their legislators.
These considerations, he maintained, were of invaluable importance to the country. Miller,
furthermore, deplored the action of the Governor of his State, which refused State aid to Negro
schools and caused to be closed certain white colleges which had the courage to consider, in
a sane way, the so-called Negro problem.

In the Fifty-fifth and Fifty-sixth Congresses, the questions of the protection of the Negroes
in the exercise of their civil rights demanded virtually the entire attention of George H.
White, who was at that time the sole Negro member of Congress. Among his many protests of discrimination,
appeals for just treatment, and discourses on the upright character of his race, there were
no speeches more significant nor more prophetic than his arraignment of the apathetic manner
with which Congress had greeted his bill, designed "to give to the federal government entire
jurisdiction over all cases of lynching and death by mob violence." If, he declared, the nation
is to avoid the state of anarchy and moral decay to which conditions were then rapidly leading,
there remained no alternative, save the enactment, by some future Congress, of a law to constitute
lynching a federal offense.[63]

EDUCATION

Despite the great significance attached by many of the Congressmen to the civil rights of the
Negroes, that of the education of the freedman was considered hardly less important. One of
the first Negro Congressmen to commit himself on this problem was Rainey of South Carolina.
That he had the proper grasp of the educational needs of his country is shown by his forceful
speech made for national aid to education. He contended that the natural result of this mental
improvement will be to impart a better understanding of our institutions, and thus cultivate
a loyal disposition and lofty appreciation for them. "The military prowess and demonstrated
superiority of the Prussians, when compared to the French, especially in the late war [The
Franco-Prussian War]," said he, "is attributable to the fact that the masses of the former
were better educated and trained than those of the latter. The leavening spirit of the German
philosophers has apparently pervaded all classes of the population of that empire."[64]

The same problem of the education of the Negroes evoked from Walls, of Florida, an opinion
replete with sound judgment on the matter. Replying to the objection of McIntyre, of Georgia,
that the establishment of a national education fund would interfere with States' rights, Walls
conceded, first, that the Constitution confers upon the States all those rights neither expressly
delegated to the Federal Government nor prohibited to the States, and second, that one of those
rights is the power of regulating common schools; but he doubted the applicability of that
principle in this instance. The enemies of progress in the South, he maintained, opposed the
education of the masses both of Negroes and whites because of its tendency to liberalize these
people. He assigned this policy, therefore, as the motive underlying the opposition of McIntyre
to the establishment of a national education fund. He rejected the proposition advanced by
McIntyre that the $300,000 appropriated by the legislature of Georgia, of which the Negroes
are entitled to a portion, would be shared by them. Continuing, Walls pointed out the activities
of the Ku Klux Klan, and the burning of Negro homes and of their schools as inconsistent with
the contention that they would receive a fair distribution of the school fund. He reviewed,
moreover, the history of the free school movement in Florida and Georgia, assigning the cause
of its failure. Concluding his speech with a summary arraignment of the policy of that time,
he urged not only the establishment of a national education fund but also of a national education
system as constituting the sole assured method whereby the poor whites and Negroes of the South
might secure proper educational facilities.[65]

Walls, moreover, submitted a resolution calling for a statement relative to the public lands
granted for school purposes, and thereafter introduced bills for the purpose of making large
grants of the public lands to schools.[66] Contemporary with Walls in the Forty-third Congress,
R. H. Cain shared with him great concern over the question of educating the masses. In the
Forty-fifth Congress, he proposed a measure,[67] somewhat similar to one previously submitted
by Jere Haralson, to establish an educational fund and to apply the proceeds of the public
lands to the education of the people.[68]

PROTECTION OF LOYAL CITIZENS

The protection of the loyal people of the South claimed also the attention of Negro Congressmen.
When, therefore, the House had under consideration the bill to enforce the 14th Amendment,
Robert C. De Large made eloquent remarks replying to Cox of New York, who had denounced the
"ignorant" rulers of South Carolina for their "rapacity," which in his opinion justified the
activities of the Ku Klux Klan.[69] It was in the defense of the bill for the protection of
life and property in the South[70] that Robert B. Elliott had occasion to speak. He showed
that the argument upon the pending bill had proceeded upon a question of constitutional law,
the opponents denying that its provisions were warranted by the Constitution of the United
States, and questioning the data upon which the proposed bill was founded. The probable efficacy
of the bill, as a measure of relief and protection for the loyal men of the South from the
extraordinary system of oppression to which they were subjected, had not been assailed. Elliott,
therefore, undertook to prove that the proposed bill was not obnoxious to the spirit of the
Constitution, that it was founded on reason, and that in view of the state of affairs then
existing in the South, it was, as a measure of protection, not only warranted, but imperatively
demanded.

