    "Notice.--Found, a Broadwood Piano. Apply, Barrack Warden,
    No. 1, Barrack Store, ---- Barracks."--Aldershot Command
    Orders.

We think some recent criticism of Army administration is undeserved. Care is evidently taken
in regard to even little things carelessly left about by the soldier.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "When the election does come there will be no need to ask
    these useless M.P.'s to resign. They can be kicked out, and
    there are plenty of workmen in the country who are ready to
    lend a hand at the kicking. The genuine Labour M.P. is known
    now, so also is the impostor, who, like the party hack, hails
    from nowhere."
                                         Letter in "The Times."

We suppose the manual kick, as described above, is the non-party hack.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

XXXVIII.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--One of these days I will tell you the more intimate history of the Corps
to which I have the honour to belong, and this will give you some cause for mirth. Its members
are of all sorts, ages and origins, and they have had between them some odd experiences since
that first day when, parading hastily in Kensington Gardens, they wished they hadn't been quite
so glib, in their anxiety to get to war, about professing full knowledge of the ways and wiles
of the motor bicycle. One at least of them paid the price of inexactitude then and there; he
still shudders to think how, put to the test, he unintentionally left the Park for a no less
fashionable but much more crowded thoroughfare, to arrive eventually, in the prone position,
in a byway of Piccadilly, where small fragments of the machine may still be collected by industrious
seekers of curios.

Another, whom the low cunning of the Criminal Bar enabled to avoid the immediate test, paid
the full price, with compound interest, later on. Casual observers of the retreat, had there
been any, would have become familiar with the sight of him bringing up the rear--a very poor
last. To see him arrive, perspiring, over the brow of a hill, with his faithful motor at his
side, was to know that the Huns were at the bottom of it. On one occasion they even beat him
in the day's march, but were too kind or too blind to seize their advantage. As usual he was
taking his obsession along with him, though, if he had but known, he might have got it to do
the work by the simple formality of turning the petrol tap from OFF to ON. His was ever a curious
life, from the first moment of his joining the Army in tails, a bowler hat, and a large sword
wrapped in a homely newspaper. But the inward fun of it all is not for the present, Charles;
our clear old friends, the Exigencies, forbidding.

I am reminded of it all by having just crossed with one of the later-joined members. He came
fresh from the line to a Head-quarters, and he was walking about in a lane, working off some
of his awe of his new surroundings, when he was overtaken by a car containing a General, who
stopped and asked him what he was. So imposing was the account he gave of himself that it was
said to him, "No doubt, then, you'll know the way to ----," a village at the back of beyond,
where a division was lying at rest. In the Army, at any rate at a Head-quarters, we all know
everything. So he said, "No doubt, Sir," hoping, if the worst came to the worst, to give some
vague directions and not to be present when they were found wanting. But it was his bad luck
to have struck one of the more affable Generals. Could he spare the time to come along and
direct the driver?

So on to the box he got (it was a closed car) and, with the General's eye always upon his back,
he did his best as guide, a task for which his previous career of stockbroker had ill qualified
him. The first thing to happen was that the car, proceeding down a narrow lane, got well into
the middle of a battalion on the march, which, when the car was firmly jammed amongst the transport,
ceased to be on the march, and took a generous ten minutes' halt.... The second thing to happen
was a level crossing; which, as they approached it, changed its mind about being a road and
became a railway. A nice long train duly arrived, and (this needs no exaggeration) stayed there,
with a few restless movements, for twenty minutes by the clock.... The third thing to happen
was that he lost himself (and the General); the fourth was the falling of dusk, and the fifth
a ploughed field, with which my friend, alighting, had to confess that he was not so intimately
acquainted as he could have wished.

Had there been a scene, he could, he says, have endured the worst bravely, standing to attention
and taking it as it came. Not so, however; his was the wrong sort of General for the purpose.
As does the partner at the dance, over whose priceless gown you have upset the indelible ice,
he said it didn't matter. He said he'd give the division a miss, and return whence they had
come. This they began to do, when they had got the car out of the ploughed field, and this
they went on doing until the sixth thing happened, which was a burst tyre.

Again, had there been a scene, my man could have explained that this wasn't his fault; but
no one said it was his fault. Equally it was never openly alleged that he was to blame for
the driver's not being prepared with a spare wheel ready for use. But his embarrassment was
such that my man was grateful to heaven for reminding him at this juncture of the existence
of R.F.C. Head-quarters, about a kilometre away. He said he'd run and borrow a wheel off them,
and before the General could say him nay he'd started.... He ran all the way, and burst, panting,
into the officers' mess, where he had the misfortune to strike another itinerant General.

It never rains but it pours, and the area seemed to be infested with Generals of quite the
wrong sort. He couldn't have hit upon a more kind and genial and inappropriate one than this.
No, he wouldn't allow a word of apology or explanation from this exhausted lieutenant until
the latter had rested and refreshed himself with a cup of tea. No, not out of that pot; it
had been standing too long. Tea which had stood should not be drunk, for reasons detailed at
length. No doubt the Colonel, whose guest he was, would order some more to be made. It would
take two minutes--it did take twenty. No, no; there was nothing to say and nothing need be
said. It was this General's particular wish that he should be at peace and make himself at
home. Let him make his explanations and apologies later.

Whatever you would have done, my overwhelmed friend temporized. He was just edging the conversation
round to the other General, waiting alone in the dark wet road, when the General in the nice
warm room rose to go, commanding my friend not to disturb himself on that account. Being a
man of some years he was a slow goer; being a General, he was not to be interrupted in his
going....

I don't know exactly how it all ended, nor, you may not be surprised to learn, does my friend,
though he is always expecting to hear.

There was also on our boat a subaltern, coming to France for the first time. He wanted me to
tell him all about it. How well I know these subalterns who want to know all about it. I was
one myself once. Does he ask you what it's like in the mud? Does he listen if you give him
details of bloodshed? Does he inquire about the food, the washing facilities, parapet or parados;
what a time-fuse does when its time has expired, or even as to the use and abuse of the entrenching
tool? No, he's for war only, and there's only one question in war: Do you or do you not need
a Sam Browne belt in the trenches?

It is an old question; there is no solution. I told him that some say one thing and some say
another, and, as both are authorities with whom you are not in a position to argue, the only
way to get out of the difficulty is to keep out of the trenches.

                                          Yours ever,      HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From a hotel advertisement:--

    "EXCELLENT CUISINE. SEPARATE STABLES."
                                            West-Country Paper.

The WISE KING must have had a presentiment of this arrangement when he wrote: "Better a dinner
of herbs, where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Premier (Sir Alexander Peacock) said that many years
    ago, when the world rang with the atrocities of Turks, Rev.
    Dr. Parker startled the whole world when, in a fiery address
    on those awful atrocities which were visited on the
    Christians, he cried, 'Dod damn the Sultan.' Now, when they
    heard of the cruelties and indescribable sufferings which had
    been visited upon the innocent people in order to satisfy the
    ideas of one man they could say, 'Kod damn the Kaiser.'
    (Great cheers)."--Sydney Daily Telegraph.

Strong language for a Premier! But the printer has done his best to tone it down.

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN.

VIII.--ORCHARD STREET.

  The fruit hangs ripe, the fruit hangs sweet,
  High and low in my Orchard Street,
  Apples and pears, cherries and plums,
  Something for everyone who comes.
        If you're a Pedlar
        I'll give you a medlar;
        If you're a Prince
        I'll give you a quince;
        If you're a Queen,
        A nectarine;
        If you're the King
        Take anything,
  Apricots, mulberries, melons or red and white
  Currants like rubies and pearls on a string!
        Little girls each
        Shall have a peach,
  Boys shall have grapes that hang just out of reach--
  Nothing's to pay, whatever you eat
  Of the fruit that grows in my Orchard Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "USEFL. hlp. ckng. no wshg. fam. 2."
                                                 Morning Paper.

Th. is rl. wd. plp. ecnmy.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NIGHT OUT WITH A ZEPPELIN.

BY KARL VON WEEKEND

(HYPHENATED NEUTRAL).

(Concluded.)

Beneath us--beneath, in a manner of speaking, the iron heel of the all-conquering Fatherland--lay
perfidious England. I, as a mere layman, had, of course, not the vaguest idea as to precisely
what vital portion of the doomed island was immediately below us. Not so my host, the Captain
Sigismund von Münchhausen, who suddenly snapped together the stethoscope through which he had
been gazing and rapped out a monosyllabic order down the speaking tube at his right hand.

"We are now," he said, turning courteously to me, "diametrically above the entrenched camp
of Little Tillingham-under-Hill." A fearful crash sounded from the depths below and a voice
muttered something through the speaking tube. "A hit!" cried the Captain without emotion. "Ober-Leutnant
von Dachswurst reports that the Arsenal, three munitions factories and two infant schools are
in flames. Ah! Now we have reached Birmingham!" Another crash rent the abysm. "Now Glasgow!"
A third terrific explosion was audible.

"But," I cried, "we can't have got from Birmingham to Glasgow in thirty-five seconds." For
a moment the Captain's eyes flashed angrily. He clenched his feet, and, remembering the horrible
fate of the seasick sailor, I crouched against the bulwark. With an effort, however, the man
mastered himself. I was relieved to see an enigmatic smile overspread his countenance.

