"You see, Sir," he said, "our pulpit is occupied by the best possible talent. The Vicar takes
the greatest interest in securing every rising preacher, and thus, Sunday after Sunday, we
have the most startling orations."

The Bridegroom (slightly bored) said that if he had happened to live in the neighbourhood,
he should certainly have taken sittings.

"But living in the neighbourhood is not necessary, Sir," persisted the Pew-opener. "Let into
the sounding-board is a telephone, and so our Vicar can supply the sermons preached here, hot
and hot, to residents in the London Postal District. Considering the quality of the discourses,
he charges a very low rate. The system has been largely adopted. As a matter of fact the whole
service, and not only the pulpit, has been laid on to the principal Hotels and Clubs."

But further conversation was here cut short by the arrival of the Bride, who, led by her brother,
advanced towards the altar with an air of confidence that charmed all beholders. This self-possession
was the outcome of the lady being--as her grey moiré-antique indicated--a widow. Congratulations
passed round amongst the friends and relatives, and then the bridal party was arranged in front
of the good old Vicar.

"Have you switched us on?" said he to the Clerk.

"Yes, Sir," was the reply. "We are now in communication with all the principal Hotels and Clubs."

"That's right. I am always anxious that my clients shall have their full money's-worth." And
then the Vicar read with much emphasis the exhortation to the public to declare any "just cause
or impediment" to the marriage. Naturally there was no response, and an opening hymn was sung
by the choir, which, containing some half-dozen verses, lasted quite a quarter of an hour.
At its conclusion the Vicar, who had allowed his attention to become distracted, instead of
going on with the service, again read the exhortation. He once more gave the names of "HARRY
SMITH, bachelor," and "AMY JONES, widow."

"If anyone knows any just cause or impediment," he continued.

"Stop; I do!" interrupted a gentleman in a dressing-gown, who had hurriedly entered the Church.
"I heard you about a quarter of an hour ago, while I was breakfasting at the Shaftesbury Avenue
Hotel, ask the same question, and came here without changing my coat. Very sorry to interrupt
the ceremony, but this lady is my wife! Well, AMY, how are you?"

"What, JOEY!" exclaimed the (now) ex-Bride, delightedly. "We are glad to see you! We thought
you were dead!"

Then the gentleman in the dressing-gown was heartily greeted on all sides. He seemed to be
a very popular personage.

"But where do I come in?" asked Mr. BROWN, the ex-Bridegroom, who had, during this scene, shown
signs of embarrassment.

"O JOEY, I quite forgot to introduce you to HARRY," said the ex-Bride. "You must know one another.
I was going to marry him when you, darling, turned up just in the nick of time, like a dear
good old boy!"

"Delighted to make your acquaintance, Sir," said Mr. JONES, shaking Mr. BROWN warmly by the
hand. "And now I must go back to finish my breakfast!"

"Yes, with me," said the ex-Bride. "You must sit, darling, in the seat intended for poor HARRY.
I know you won't mind, HARRY (or, perhaps, I ought to call you Mr. BROWN now?), as I have so
much to say to dear JOEY. And you can have your breakfast at a side-table--now won't you, just
to please me? You always are so kind and considerate!"

And, as the wedding-party left the Church, the Clerk hastily unswitched the electric communication.

"Be quiet, Sir!" he whispered, sternly, to Mr. BROWN, who had been talking to himself. "If
our clients heard you, we should be ruined! We guarantee that our telephonic supply shall be
perfectly free from bad language!"

       *       *       *       *       *

PROPHET AND LOSS.--Good Mussulmen, so it is said, object to a play entitled Mahomet being produced
in London. The objection was successful in Paris. London Managers (except, perhaps, Sheriff
DRURIOLANUS, who revived Le Prophete this season) will be on the side of the objectors, as
they would rather have to do with a genuine profit than a fictitious one. Perhaps the non-production
of Mahomet may be a loss to Literature and the Drama.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BACHELOR'S IDYL.

  I am not married, but I see
    No life so pleasant as my own;
  I think it's good for man to be
                      Alone.

  Some marry not who once have been--
    A curious process--crossed in love,
  Who find a life's experience in
                      A glove;

  Or else will sentimental grow
    At recollections of a dance;
  But, luckily for me, I've no
                      Romance.

  Of course I know "love in a cot,"--
    The little wife who calls you "hub,"--
  But I'm content whilst I have got
                      My Club.

  In some fine way, I don't know how,
    Some fool, some idiot, who lacks
  A grain of sense, proposes now
                      A tax.

  A Tax on Bachelors! Ah, well,
    If this becomes the law's decree,
  I cheerfully shall pay the L.
                      S.D.,

  Quite happy with my single lot,
    Convinced beyond a doubt that life
  Is just worth living it you've not
                      A wife.

  (A LITTLE LATER.)

  I'll sing exaltedly no more,
    But sadly in a minor key
  Will tell what fortune had in store
                      For me.

  I rather think, the other day,
    That someone asked, "Should women woo?"
  I'll answer that without delay--
                      They do!

  She came--I foolishly was glad--
    She took me captive with a glance,
  Of course I never really had
                      A chance.

  And when she bent her pretty head
    To ask the question, I confess
  That what at once with joy I said
                      Was "Yes."

  She says our wedding is to be
    On Monday--quite a swell affair.
  My wife and I shall hope to see
                      You there.

       *       *       *       *       *

"IS THIS THE HEND?"

The following, headed Scottish Leader, was sent to us as a quotation:--

    "The Duke of FIFE has sold the estate of Eden, near Banff,
    to Mr. THOMAS ADAM, Deputy Chairman of the Great North of
    Scotland Railway Company."

If the above information be correct, this transfer of "Eden" to "ADAM" looks uncommonly like
"Paradise Regained."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Baron must say a word about Voces Populi, by F. ANSTEY, author of the immortal Vice Versâ.
That the series contained in this volume appeared in Mr. Punch's pages is sufficient guarantee
for the excellence of its quality, and more than this it would not become the Baron to say;
but of the illustrations by J. BERNARD PARTRIDGE the Baron can speak--and speak in terms of
the highest admiration of them--as works of genuinely artistic humour. There are twenty illustrations,
that is, ten brace of Partridges, if he will allow the Baron so far to make game of him. The
book is published by LONGMANS, GREEN & Co.

The Leadenhall Press has brought out, in Pocket form, Prince Dorus, by CHARLES LAMB, with nine
coloured illustrations, following the original Edition of 1811. The lines are not very Lamb-like,
but the illustrations are very quaint, and the Pocket Volume is a curiosity of literature.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A REALLY VALUABLE SUGGESTION.

(TO THE EDITOR OF PUNCH.)

