  Heigho! The sleet still whips the pane
  And I must turn to work again
  Where the brown stout of Erin hums
  Through Dublin's aromatic slums
  And Sinn Fein youths with shifty faces
  Hold "Parliaments" in public places
  And, heaping curse on mountainous curse
  In unintelligible Erse,
  Harass with threats of war and arson
  Base Briton and still baser CARSON.
  But some day when the powers that be
  Demobilise the likes of me
  (Some seven years hence, as I infer,
  My actual exit will occur)
  Swift o'er the Irish Sea I'll fly,
  Yea, though each wave be mountains high,
  Nor pause till I descend to grab
  Oxford's surviving taxicab.
  Then "Home!" (Ah, HOME! my heart be still!)
  I'll say, and, when we reach Boar's Hill,
  I'll fill my lungs with heaven's own air
  And pay the cabman twice his fare,
  Then, looking far and looking nigh,
  Bare-headed and with hand on high,
  "Hear ye," I'll cry, "the vow I make,
  Familiar sprites of byre and brake,
  J'y suis, j'y reste. Let Bolshevicks
  Sweep from the Volga to the Styx;
  Let internecine carnage vex
  The gathering hosts of Poles and Czechs,
  And Jugo-Slavs and Tyrolese
  Impair the swart Italian's ease--
  Me for Boar's Hill! These war-worn ears
  Are deaf to cries for volunteers;
  No Samuel Browne or British warm
  Shall drape this svelte Apolline form
  Till over Cumnor's outraged top
  The actual shells begin to drop;
  Till below Youlberry's stately pines
  Echo the whiskered Bolshy's lines
  And General TROTSKY'S baggage blocks
  The snug bar-parlour of 'The Fox.'"

  ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMANCE WHILE YOU WAIT.

My friend and I occupied facing seats in a railway-carriage on a tedious journey. Having nothing
to read and not much to say, I gazed through the windows at the sodden English winter landscape,
while my friend's eyes were fixed on the opposite wall of the compartment, above my head.

"What a country!" I exclaimed at last. "Good heavens, what a country, to spend one's life in!"

"Yes," he said, withdrawing his eyes from the space above my head. "And why do we stay in it
when there are such glorious paradises to go to? Hawaii now. If you really want divine laziness--sun
and warmth and the absence of all fretful ambition--you should go to the South Seas. You can't
get it anywhere else. I remember when I was in Hawaii--"

"Hawaii!" I interrupted. "You never told me you had been to Hawaii."

"I don't tell everything," he replied. "But the happiest hours of my existence were spent in
a little village two or three miles from Honolulu, on the coast, where we used to go now and
then for a day's fun. It was called--let me get it right--it was called Tormo Tonitui--and
there were pleasure-gardens there and the most fascinating girls." His eyes took on a far-away
wistfulness.

"Yes, yes?" I said.

"Fascinating brown girls," he said, "who played that banjo-mandolin thing they all play, and
sang mournful luxurious songs, and danced under the lanterns at night. And the bathing! There's
no bathing here at all. There you can stay in the sea air day if you like. It's like bathing
in champagne. Sun and surf and sands--there's nothing like it." He sighed rapturously.

"Well, I can't help saying again," I interrupted, "that it's a most extraordinary thing that,
after knowing you all these years, you have never told me a word about Honolulu or the South
Seas or this wonderful pleasure-garden place called--what was the name of it?"

He hesitated for a moment. "Morto Notitui," he then replied.

"I don't think that's how you had it before," I said; "surely it was Tormo Tonitui?"

"Perhaps it was," he said. "I forget. Those Hawaiian names are very much alike and all rather
confusing. But you really ought to go out there. Why don't you cut everything for a year and
get some sunshine into your system? You're fossilising here. We all are. Let's be gamblers
and chance it."

"I wish I could," I said. "Tell me some more about your life there."

"It was wonderful," he went on--wonderful. I'm not surprised that STEVENSON found it a paradise."

"By the way," I asked, "did you hear anything of STEVENSON?"

"Oh, yes, lots. I met several men who had known him--Tusitala he was called there, you know--and
several natives. There was one extraordinary old fellow who had helped him make the road up
the mountain. He and I had some great evenings together, yarning and drinking copra."

"Did he tell you anything particularly personal about STEVENSON?" I asked.

"Nothing that I remember," he said; "but he was a fine old fellow and as thirsty as they make 'em."

"What is copra like?" I asked.

"Great," he said. "Like--what shall I say?--well, like Audit ale and Veuve Clicquot mixed.
But it got to your head. You had to be careful. I remember one night after a day's bathing
at--at Tromo Titonui--"

"Where was that?" I asked.

"Oh, that little village I was telling you about," he said. "I remember one night--"

"Look here," I said, "you began by calling it Tormo Tonitui, then you called it Morto Notitui
and now it's Tromo Titonui. I'm going to say again, quite seriously, that I don't believe you
ever were in Hawaii at all."

"Of course I wasn't," he replied. "But what is one to do in a railway carriage, with nothing
to read, and a drenched world and those two words staring one in the face?" and he pointed
to a placard above my head advertising a firm which provided the best and cheapest Motor Tuition.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEMOBILISED.

  Daddy's got his civvies on:
    In his room upstairs
  You should have heard him stamping round,
    Throwing down the chairs;
  When I went to peep at him
    Daddy banged his door....
  Well, I think I'll hide from Daddy
    Till the next Great War! The scene is,
however, now London, where we watch George winning fame and fortune,
quite in the masterful Five-Towns manner, as an architect. The change
is, I think, beneficial. That quality of unstalable astonishment,
native to Mr. BENNETT's folk, accords better with the complexities
of the wonderful city than to places where it had at times only
indifferent matter upon which to work. But it is noticeable that Mr.
BENNETT can communicate this surprise not only to his characters but
to his readers. There is an enthusiasm, real or apparent, in his art
which, like the beam celestial, "evermore makes all things new," so
that when he tells us, as here, that there are studios in Chelsea
or that the lamps in the Queen's Hall have red shades, these facts
acquire the thrill of sudden and almost startling discovery. I suppose
this to be one reason for the pleasure that I always have in his
books; another is certainly the intense, even passionate sympathy
that he lavishes upon the central character. In the present example
the affairs of George Cannon are shown developing largely under the
stimulus of four women, of whom the least seen is certainly the most
interesting, while Lois, the masterful young female whom George
marries, promises as a personality more than she fulfils. We conduct
George's fortunes as far as the crisis produced in them by the
War, and leave him contemplating a changed life as a subaltern in
the R.F.A. It is therefore permissible to hope that in a year or
two we may expect the story of his reconstruction. I shall read it
with delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Iron Times with the Guards (MURRAY), by an O.E., is emphatically one of the books which one
won't turn out from one's war-book shelf. It fills in blanks which appear in more ambitious
and more orderly narratives. This particular old Etonian, entering the new Army by way of the
Territorials in the first days of the War, was transferred, in the March of 1915, to the Coldstreams
and was in the fighting line in April of the same year. A way they had in the Army of those
great days. Details of the routine of training, reported barrack-square jests and dug-out conversations,
vignettes of trench and field, disquisitions on many strictly relevant and less relevant topics,
reflections of that fine pride in the regiment which marks the best of soldiers, an occasional
more ambitious survey of a battle or a campaign--all this from a ready but not pretentious
pen, guided by a sound intelligence and some power of observation, makes an admirable commentary.
Our author's narrative carries us to those days of the great hopes of the Spring of 1917, hopes
so tragically deferred. Perhaps the best thing in an interesting sheaf is the description of
the attack of the Guards Division--as it had become--on the Transloy-Lesboeufs-Ginchy road,
with its glory and its carnage.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is to be feared that Battle Days (BLACKWOOD), a new work by Mr. ARTHUR FETTERLESS, author
of Gog, will lose a good many readers as the result of the armistice. There are battle stories
and battle books that are not stories that will live far into the piping times of peace because
they are human documents or have the stamp of genius. These attractions are not present in
Battle Days, which in truth is rather a prosy affair, though ambitious withal. It is not fiction
in the ordinary sense. Mr. FETTERLESS essays to conduct the reader through every phase of a
big "Push." Pushes were complicated affairs, and the author does not spare us many of the complications.
And unless the reader happens to be an ardent militarist he is apt to push off into slumberland.
Cadets should be made to read this book as a matter of instruction; for, though it lacks the
subtle humour that endeared Duffer's Drift to us, it provides a striking analysis of modern
trench warfare.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Curtain of Steel (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is the fourth book which the author of In the Northern
Mists has given us during the War, and in essentials it is the most valuable of the quartette.
For here we have real history, served, it is true, with some trimmings, but none the less a
true record of the doings of our Grand Fleet since the day when the "curtain" was lowered.
"Nothing," our author says, "nauseates a naval man so much as the attempt to represent him
as a hero or to theatricalise him and his profession." It behoves me then to choose my words
with the utmost circumspection, and I beg him to forgive my audacity when I say that, if I
were Book-Controller, a copy of The Curtain of Steel would be in (and out of) the library of
every school in the Empire. I find courage to make this statement because I see that he does
not deny that a part of our "disease of ignorance" concerning the Senior Service is due to
the modesty of Naval men. If he will please go on correcting that ignorance, and in the same
inspiring style, I wish an even greater access of power to his elbow.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am allowed the reputation of a tolerable guide in writing and style, and I can certainly
help you to produce clear English." These words, written in 1881, are to be found in a letter
of GEORGE MEREDITH to his eldest son. They show how wildly mistaken even the best of us may
be with regard to our own qualities and gifts; for if there is one thing that MEREDITH could
not produce, that thing is clear English. Mr. S.M. ELLIS agrees with me in this particular
point, and has written George Meredith: His Life and Friends in Relation to his Work (GRANT
RICHARDS) to prove that this is so. The book is a curious compound. At one moment Mr. ELLIS
sets out in detail the Meredithian genealogy, and shows that MEREDITH was the son and grandson
of tailors and did not relish the relationship; at another moment he describes MEREDITH'S delightful
and exuberantly youthful characteristics as a friend; and again he shows how badly MEREDITH
behaved in regard to his first wife (though she was much more in fault), and also in regard
to his first son, Arthur. Still the book is extremely interesting and, though it does not profess
to deal in elaborate criticism, it contains some very shrewd comments on MEREDITH'S work and
the reasons that made his novels so many sealed books to the British public. Here and there
Mr. ELLIS allows himself almost to write a passage or two in the style of the master. This
is one of them: "As he [Maurice Fitzgerald] was the gourmetic instrument that brought Mrs.
Ockenden's art to perfect expression, he appropriately attained immortalisation jointly with
her at the hands of the friend who had shared with him the joys of that good woman's superlative
cookery in Seaford days."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted, half-governess for boy aged nine, girl aged six;
    wages £30 per year."--Morning Post.

A half-governess is, we suppose, the feminine equivalent of two quartermasters.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lady Nurse, nursery college trained, wanted, under 34;
    very experienced babies."--Provincial Paper.

Perhaps they will know too much for her.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Will gentleman, navy mackintosh, who spoke to lady, blue
    hat, vicinity Park Station, Tuesday, 6 o'clock, speak again
    same time?"--Liverpool Echo.

The gentleman will doubtless beg a ride on Mr. H.G. WELLS'S "Time Machine" in order to get
back in time for the appointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

    [Sir WILLIAM BEVERIDGE. K.O.B., has been appointed Permanent
    Secretary to the Ministry of Food.]

  To skimp its daily bread for beer
    Was not this nation's mood;
  But now with lightened hearts we hear
    That BEVERIDGE turns to Food.