When I turned round, he was sitting on the side of his low pallet, towards the head of it,
supporting his head by his elbow against the wall, apparently in a state of half stupor. He
was motionless, excepting a sort of convulsive movement, between sprawling and clutching of
the fingers of the right hand, which was extended on his knee. His shrunk cheeks exhibited
a deadly ashen paleness, with a slight tinge of yellow, the effect of confinement. His eyes
were glossy and sunken, and seemed in part to have lost the power of gazing. They were turned
with an unmeaning and vacant stare upon the window, where the last red streak of day was faintly
visible, which they seemed vainly endeavouring to watch. The sense of my own situation now
recoiled strongly upon me; and the sight of the wretch sitting stiffened in quiet agony, (for
it was no better,) affected me with a faint sickness. I felt that an effort was necessary,
and, with some difficulty, addressed a few cheering and consolatory phrases to the miserable
creature I had undertaken to support. My words might not--but I fear my tone was too much in
unison with his feelings, such as they were. His answer was a few inarticulate mutterings,
between which, the spasmodic twitching of his fingers became more apparent than before. A noise
at the door seemed decidedly to rouse him; and as he turned his head with a sudden effort,
I felt relieved to see the gaoler enter. He was used to such scenes; and with an air of commiseration,
but in a tone which lacked none of the firmness with which he habitually spoke, he asked the
unhappy man some question of his welfare, and seemed satisfied with the head-shake and inarticulately
muttered replies of the again drooping wretch, as if they were expected, and of course. Having
directed the turnkey to place some wine and slight refreshments on the table, and to trim the
light, he told me in a whisper, that my friends would be at the prison, with the clergyman,
at the hour of six; and bidding the miserable convict and myself, after a cheering word or
two, "good night," he departed--the door was closed--and the murderer and I were finally left
together.

It was now past the hour of ten o'clock; and it became my solemn duty to take heed, that the
last few hours of the dying sinner passed not, without such comfort to his struggling soul
as human help might hold out. After reading to him some passages of the gospel, the most apposite
to his trying state, and some desultory and unconnected conversation--for the poor creature,
at times seemed to be unable, under his load of horror, to keep his ideas connected further
than as they dwelt upon his own nearing and unavoidable execution--I prevailed upon him to
join in prayer. He at this time appeared to be either so much exhausted, or labouring under
so much lassitude from fear and want of rest, that I found it necessary to take his arm and
turn him upon his knees by the pallet-side. The hour was an awful one. No sound was heard save
an occasional ejaculation between a sigh and a smothered groan from the wretched felon. The
candle burned dimly; and as I turned I saw, though I scarcely noticed it at the moment, a dim
insect of the moth species, fluttering hurriedly round it, the sound of whose wings mournfully
filled up the pauses of myself and my companion. When the nerves are strained to their uttermost,
by such trifling circumstances are we affected. Here (thought I) there has been no light, at
such an hour, for many years; and yet here is one whose office it seems to be to watch it!
My spirit felt the necessity of some exertion; and with an energy, for which a few moments
before I had hardly dared to hope, I poured out my soul in prayer. I besought mercy upon the
blood-stained creature who was grovelling beside me--I asked that repentance and peace might
be vouchsafed him--I begged, for our Redeemer's sake, that his last moments might know that
untasted rapture of sin forgiven, and a cleansed soul, which faith alone can bring to fallen
man--I conjured him to help and aid me to call upon the name of Christ; and I bade him put
off life and forget it, and to trust in that name alone--I interceded that his latter agony
might be soothed, and that the leave-taking of body and soul might be in quietness and peace.
But he shook and shivered, and nature clung to the miserable straw of existence which yet floated
upon the wide and dismal current of oblivion, and he groaned heavily and muttered, "No, no,
no!" as if the very idea of death was unbearable, even for a moment; and "to die," even to
him that must, were a thing impossible, and not to be thought of or named. And as I wrestled
with the adversary that had dominion over him, he buried his shrunk and convulsed features
in the covering of his miserable pallet; while his fingers twisted and writhed about, like
so many scotched snakes, and his low, sick moans, made the very dungeon darker.

When I lifted him from his kneeling position, he obeyed my movement like a tired child, and
again sat on the low pallet, in a state of motionless and unresisting torpor. The damp sweat
stood on my own forehead, though not so cold as on his; and I poured myself out a small portion
of wine, to ward off the exhaustion which I began to feel unusually strong upon me. I prevailed
upon the poor wretch to swallow a little with me; and, as I broke a bit of bread, I thought,
and spoke to him, of that last repast of Him who came to call sinners to repentance; and methought
his eye grew lighter than it was. The sinking frame, exhausted and worn down by anxiety, confinement,
and the poor allowance of a felon's gaol, drew a short respite from the cordial; and he listened
to my words with something of self-collectedness--albeit slight tremblings might still be seen
to run along his nerves at intervals; and his features collapsed, ever and anon, into that
momentary vacuity of wildness which the touch of despair never fails to give. I endeavoured
to improve the occasion. I exhorted him, for his soul's sake, and the relief of that which
needed it too much, to make a full and unreserved confession, not only to God, who needed it
not, but to man, who did. I besought him, for the good of all, and as he valued his soul's
health, to detail the particulars of his crime, but his eye fell. That dark enemy, who takes
care to leave in the heart just hope enough to keep despair alive, tongue-tied him; and he
would not--even now--at the eleventh hour--give up the vain imagination, that the case of his
companion might yet be confounded with his, to the escape of both--and vain it was. It had
not been felt advisable, so far as to make him acquainted with the truth, that this had already
been sifted and decided; and I judged this to be the time. Again and again I urged confession
upon him. I put it to him that this act of justice might now be done for its own sake, and
for that of the cleansing from spot of his stained spirit. I told him, finally, that it could
no longer prejudice him in this world, where his fate was written and sealed, for that his
companion was reprieved. I knew not what I did. Whether the tone of my voice, untutored in
such business, had raised a momentary hope, I know not--but the revulsion was dreadful. He
stared with a vacant look of sudden horror--a look which those who never saw cannot conceive,
and which--(the remembrance is enough)--I hope never to see again--and twisting round, rolled
upon his pallet with a stifled moan that seemed tearing him in pieces. As he lay, moaning and
writhing backwards and forwards, the convulsions of his legs, the twisting of his fingers,
and the shiverings that ran through his frame were terrible.

To attempt to rouse him seemed only to increase their violence--as if the very sound of the
human voice was, under his dreadful circumstances, intolerable, as renewing the sense of reality
to a reason already clouding, and upon the verge of temporary deliquium. He was the picture
of despair. As he turned his face to one side, I saw that a few, but very few hot tears had
been forced from his glassy and blood-shot eyes; and in his writhings he had scratched one
cheek against his iron bedstead, the red discoloration of which contrasted sadly with the deathly
pallidness of hue, which his visage now showed: during his struggles, one shoe had come off,
and lay unheeded on the damp stone-floor. The demon was triumphant within him; and when he
groaned, the sound seemed scarcely that of a human being, so much had horror changed it. I
kneeled over him--but in vain. He heard nothing--he felt nothing--he knew nothing, but that
extremity of prostration to which a moment's respite would be Dives' drop of water--and yet
in such circumstances, any thing but a mercy. He could not bear, for a moment, to think upon
his own death--a moment's respite would only have added new strength to the agony--He might
be dead; but could not "--die;" and in the storm of my agitation and pity, I prayed to the
Almighty to relieve him at once from sufferings which seemed too horrible even to be contemplated.

How long this tempest of despair continued, I do not know. All that I can recall is, that after
almost losing my own recollection under the agitation of the scene, I suddenly perceived that
his moans were less loud and continuous, and that I ventured to look at him, which I had not
done for some space. Nature had become exhausted, and he was sinking gradually into a stupor,
which seemed something between sleep and fainting. This relief did not continue long--and as
soon as I saw him begin to revive again to a sense of his situation, I made a strong effort,
and lifting him up, seated him again on the pallet, and, pouring out a small quantity of wine,
gave it him to drink, not without a forlorn hope that even wine might be permitted to afford
him some little strength to bear what remained of his misery, and collect his ideas for his
last hour. After a long pause of returning recollection, the poor creature, got down a little
of the cordial and as I sat by him and supported him, I began to hope that his spirits calmed.
He held the glass and sipped occasionally, and appeared in some sort to listen, and to answer
to the words of consolation I felt collected enough to offer. At this moment the low and distant
sound of a clock was heard, distinctly striking one. The ear of despair is quick;--and as he
heard it, he shuddered, and in spite of a strong effort to suppress his emotion, the glass
had nearly fallen from his hand. A severe nervous restlessness now rapidly grew upon him, and
he eagerly drank up one or two small portions of wine, with which I supplied him. His fate
was now evidently brought one degree nearer to him. He kept his gaze intently and unceasingly
turned to the window of the dungeon. His muttered replies were incoherent, or unintelligible,
and his sunk and weakened eye strained painfully on the grated window, as if he momentarily
expected to see the first streak of the dawn of that morning, which to him was to be night.
His nervous agitation gradually became horrible, and his motions stronger. He seemed not to
have resolution enough to rise from his seat and go to the window, and yet to have an over-powering
wish or impulse to do so. The lowest sound startled him--but with this terrible irritation,
his muscular power, before debilitated, seemed to revive, and his action, which was drooping
and languid, became quick and angular. I began to be seized with an undefined sense of fear
and alarm. In vain I combated it; it grew upon me; and I had almost risen from my seat to try
to make myself heard, and obtain, if possible, assistance. The loneliness of the gaol, however,
rendered this, even, if attempted, almost desperate--the sense of duty, the dread of ridicule,
came across me, and chained me to my seat by the miserable criminal, whose state was becoming
every minute more dreadful and extraordinary.

       *       *       *       *       *

Exhausted by the wearing excitement and anxiety of my situation, I had for a moment sunk into
that confused absence of mind with which those who have been in similar circumstances cannot
be unacquainted, when my miserable companion, with a convulsive shudder, grasped my arm suddenly.
I was for a few seconds unaware of the cause of this emotion and movement, when a low, indistinct
sound caught my ear. It was the rumbling of a cart, mingled with two or three suppressed voices;
and the cart appeared to be leaving the gate of the dismal building in which we were. It rolled
slowly and heavily as if cumbrously laden, under the paved gateway; and after a few minutes,
all was silent. The agonized wretch understood its import better than I did. A gust of the
wildest despair came suddenly over him. He clutched with his hands whatever met his grasp.
His knees worked. His frame became agitated with one continued movement, swaying backwards
and forwards, almost to falling;--and his inarticulate complaints became terrific. I attempted
to steady him by an exertion of strength--I spoke kindly to him, but he writhed in my grasp
like an adder, and as an adder was deaf; grief and fear had horrible possession. Myself, almost
in a state of desperation--for the sight was pitiful. I at last endeavoured to awe him into
a momentary quiescence, and strongly bade him at last to die like a man; but the word "Death"
had to him only the effect it may be supposed to have upon a mere animal nature and understanding--how
could it have any other? He tried to bear it, and could not, and uttering a stifled noise,
between a yell and a moan, he grasped his own neck; his face assumed a dark red colour, and
he fell into a state of stifled convulsion.

       *       *       *       *       *

When despair had wrought with him, I lifted him with difficulty from the floor on which he
had fallen. His relaxed features had the hue of death, and his parched lips, from a livid blue,
became of an ashy whiteness. In appearance he was dying; and in the agitation of the moment
I poured a considerable portion of the wine which had been left with us into a glass, and,
after wetting his temples, held it to his lips. He made an effort to swallow, and again revived
to consciousness; and holding the vessel firmly in his hands, got down with difficulty and
at intervals, the entire draught. When he found it totally exhausted, the glass fell from his
hands; but he seized and held one of mine with a grasp so firm and iron-like that the contrast
startled me. He seemed to be involved in a confused whirl of sensations. He stared round the
cell with a wildness of purpose that was appalling; and after a time, I began to see with deep
remorse, that the wine I had unguardedly given was, as is always the case, adding keenness
to his agony and strength to his despair. He half rose once or twice and listened; all was
silent--when, after the pause of a minute or two, a sudden fit of desperation seemed to seize
upon him. He rushed to the window, and hurriedly surveying the grates, wrenched at them with
a strength demoniac and superhuman, till the iron bars shook in their embedments.

From this period my recollections are vague and indistinct. I remember strongly remonstrating
with the poor creature, and being pushed away by hands which were now bleeding profusely with
the intense efforts of his awful delirium. I remember attempting to stop him, and hanging upon
him, until the insane wretch clutched me by the throat, and a struggle ensued, during which
I suppose I must at length have fainted or become insensible; for the contest was long, and
while consciousness remained, terrible and appalling. My fainting, I presume, saved my life,
for the felon was in that state of maniacal desperation which nothing but a perfect unresistingness
could have evaded.

After this, the first sensation I can recall is that of awakening out of that state of stupor
into which exhaustion and agitation had thrown me. Shall I ever forget it? The anxiety of some
of my friends had brought them early to the gaol; and the unusual noises which had been heard
by some of its miserable inmates occasioned, I believe, the door of the cell in which we were,
to be unlocked before the intended hour. Keenly do I recollect the struggling again into painful
consciousness, the sudden sense of cheering daylight, the sound of friendly voices, the changed
room, and the strange looks of all around me. The passage was terrible to me; but I had yet
more to undergo. I was recovered just in time to witness the poor wretch, whose prop and consolation
I had undertaken to be, carried, exhausted and in nerveless horror, to the ignominious tree--his
head drooping on his breast, his eyes opening mechanically at intervals, and only kept from
fainting and utter insensibility by the unused and fresh morning air, which breathed in his
face, as if in cruel mockery. I looked once, but looked no more.--* * * *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

       *       *       *       *       *

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
                            SHAKSPEARE.

It is said that the famous Burman General, Bundoola, who was killed at the siege of Donabew,
began, before his death, to evince symptoms of Christianity. When the Mugh (a native belonging
to the Chittagong frontier) who reported this interesting fact, was pressed to explain what
these symptoms were, he replied, with much simplicity, that Bundoola was of his "master's caste,"
having acquired a relish for the enjoyment of roast beef, pork, and brandy.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DRY LODGINGS TO LET."

In Ireland this notice is often given by the words "Good Dry Lodgings," by which word dry,
is not meant lodgings wet or damp, but without board. A dry ball is used to imply, a ball without
supper.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAVING IN CHURCHYARDS.

Some centuries past it was usual in England for the barbers to shave the parishioners in the
churchyard, on high festivals, (as Easter, Whitsuntide, &c.) before matins. The observance
of this custom was restrained in the year 1422, by a particular prohibition of Richard Flemmyng,
Bishop of Lincoln.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Maréchal Grammont having for some time besieged a fortress, the garrison of which held
out obstinately, a capitulation at length took place, upon the signing of which, the governor
of the fortress said, "Maréchal, I will be candid with you, if I had not been bereft of a bullet
to defend myself, I should not have surrendered."--"That I may not appear wanting in candour,"
replied the Maréchal, "I must tell you that had I had any more powder, I would not have acceded
to the terms of capitulation."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOVEL HERALDRY.

A gentleman having sent a porter on a message, which he executed much to his satisfaction,
had the curiosity to ask his name; being informed it was Russell, "Pray," says the gentleman
"is your coat of arms the same as the Duke of Bedford's?" "As to our arms, your honour," said
the porter, "I believe they are pretty much alike; but there is a deal of difference between
our coats."