No. 81.] SATURDAY, MAY 17.

ILLUSTRATIONS OF CHAUCER, NO. VI.

Unless Chaucer had intended to mark with particular exactness the day of the journey to Canterbury,
he would not have taken such unusual precautions to protect his text from ignorant or careless
transcribers. We find him not only recording the altitudes of the sun, at different hours,
in words; but also corroborating those words by associating them with physical facts incapable
of being perverted or misunderstood.

Had Chaucer done this in one instance only, we might imagine that it was but another of those
occasions, so frequently seized upon by him, for the display of a little scientific knowledge;
but when he repeats the very same precautionary expedient again, in the afternoon of the same
day, we begin to perceive that he must have had some fixed purpose; because, as I shall presently
show, it is the repetition alone that renders the record imperishable.

But whether Chaucer really devised this method for the express purpose of preserving his text,
or not, it has at least had that effect,--for while there are scarcely two MSS. extant which
agree in the verbal record of the day and hours, the physical circumstances remain, and afford
at all times independent data for the recovery or correction of the true reading.

The day of the month may be deduced from the declination of the sun; and, to obtain the latter,
all the data required are,

1. The latitude of the place.

2. Two altitudes of the sun at different sides of noon.

It is not absolutely necessary to have any previous knowledge of the hours at which these altitudes
were respectively obtained, because these may be discovered by the trial method of seeking
two such hours as shall most nearly agree in requiring a declination common to both at the
known altitudes. Of course it will greatly simplify the process if we furthermore know that
the observations must have been obtained at some determinate intervals of time, such, for example,
as complete hours.

Now, in the Prologue to the "Canterbury Tales" we know that the observations could not have
been recorded except at complete hours, because the construction of the metre will not admit
the supposition of any parts of hours having been expressed.

We are also satisfied that there can be no mistake in the altitudes, because nothing can alter
the facts, that an equality between the length of the shadow and the height of the substance
can only subsist at an altitude of 45 degrees; or that an altitude of 29 degrees (more or less)
is the nearest that will give the ratio of 11 to 6 between the shadow and its gnomon.

{386}

With these data we proceed to the following comparison:

  Forenoon altitude 45°.|| Afternoon altitude 29°.
                          ||
  Hour.         Declin.   || Hour.         Declin.
    XI    A.M.  8°  9' N. ||  II    P.M.   3° 57' S.
     X     "   13° 27' "  || III     "     3° 16' N.
    IX     "   22° 34' "  ||  IV     "    13° 26' "
  VIII     "   Impossible.||   V     "    Impossible.

Here we immediately select "X A.M." and "IV P.M." as the only two items at all approaching
to similarity; while, in these the approach is so near that they differ by only a single minute
of a degree!

More conclusive evidence therefore could scarcely exist that these were the hours intended
to be recorded by Chaucer, and that the sun's declination, designed by him, was somewhere about
thirteen degrees and a half North.

Strictly speaking, this declination would more properly apply to the 17th of April, in Chaucer's
time, than to the 18th; but since he does not profess to critical exactness, and since it is
always better to adhere to written authority, when it is not grossly and obviously corrupt,
such MSS. as name the 18th of April ought to be respected; but Tyrwhitt's "28th," which he
states not only as the result of his own conjecture but as authorised by the "the best MSS.,"
ought to be scouted at once.

In the latest edition of the "Canterbury Tales" (a literal reprint from one of the Harl. MSS.,
for the Percy Society, under the supervision of Mr. Wright), the opening of the Prologue to
"The Man of Lawes Tale" does not materially differ from Tyrwhitt's text, excepting in properly
assigning the day of the journey to "the eightetene day of April;" and the confirmation of
the forenoon altitude is as follows:

 "And sawe wel that the schade of every tree
  Was in the lengthe the same quantite,
  That was the body erecte that caused it."

But the afternoon observation is thus related:

 "By that the Manciple had his tale endid,
  The sonne fro the southe line is descendid
  So lowe that it nas nought to my sight,
  Degrees nyne and twenty as in hight.
  Ten on the clokke it was as I gesse,
  For eleven foote, or litil more or lesse,
  My schadow was at thilk time of the yere,
  Of which feet as my lengthe parted were,
  In sixe feet equal of proporcioun."

In a note to the line "Ten on the clokke" Mr. Wright observes,

    "Ten. I have not ventured to change the reading of the Harl. MS.,
    which is partly supported by that of the lands. MS., than."

If the sole object were to present an exact counterpart of the MS., of course even its errors
were to be respected: but upon no other grounds can I understand why a reading should be preserved
by which broad sunshine is attributed to ten o'clock at night! Nor can I believe that the copyist
of the MS. with whom the error must have originated would have set down anything so glaringly
absurd, unless he had in his own mind some means of reconciling it with probability. It may,
I believe, be explained in the circumstance that "ten" and "four," in horary reckoning, were
convertible terms. The old Roman method of naming the hours, wherein noon was the sixth, was
long preserved, especially in conventual establishments: and I have no doubt that the English
idiomatic phrase "o'clock" originated in the necessity for some distinguishing mark between
hours "of the clock" reckoned from midnight, and hours of the day reckoned from sunrise, or
more frequently from six A.M. With such an understanding, it is clear that ten might be called
four, and four ten, and yet the same identical hour to be referred to; nor is it in the least
difficult to imagine that some monkish transcriber, ignorant perhaps of the meaning of "o'clock,"
might fancy he was correcting, rather that corrupting, Chaucer's text, by changing "foure"
into "ten."

I have, I trust, now shown that all these circumstances related by Chaucer, so far from being
hopelessly incongruous, are, on the contrary, harmoniously consistent;--that they all tend
to prove that the day of the journey to Canterbury could not have been later than the 18th
of April;--that the times of observation were certainly 10 A.M. and 4 P.M.;--that the "arke
of his artificial day" is to be understood as the horizontal or azimuthal arch;--and that the
"halfe cours in the Ram" alludes to the completion of the last twelve degrees of that sign,
about the end of the second week in April.

There yet remains to be examined the signification of those three very obscure lines which
immediately follow the description, already quoted, of the afternoon observation:

 "Therewith the Mones exaltacioun
  In mena Libra, alway gan ascende
  As we were entryng at a townes end."

It is the more unfortunate that we should not be certain what it was that Chaucer really did
write, inasmuch as he probably intended to present, in these lines, some means of identifying
the year, similar to those he had previously given with respect to the day.

When Tyrwhitt, therefore, remarks, "In what year this happened Chaucer does not inform us"--he
was not astronomer enough to know that if Chaucer had meant to leave, in these lines, a record
of the moon's place on the day of the journey, he could not have chosen a more certain method
of informing us in what year it occurred.

But as the present illustration has already extended far enough for the limits of a single
number of "NOTES AND QUERIES," I shall defer the {387} investigation of this last and greatest
difficulty to my next communication.

A. E. B.

Leeds, April 29.

       *       *       *       *       *

DUTCH FOLK-LORE.

1. A baby laughing in its dreams is conversing with the angels.

2. Rocking the cradle when the babe is not in it, is considered injurious to the infant, and
a prognostic of its speedy death.

3. A strange dog following you is a sign of good luck.

4. A stork settling on a house is a harbinger of happiness. To kill such a bird would be sacrilege.

5. If you see a shooting star, the wish you form before its disappearance will be fulfilled.

6. A person born with a caul is considered fortunate.

7. Four-leaved clover brings luck to the person who finds it unawares.

8. An overturned salt-cellar is a ship wrecked. If a person take salt and spill it on the table,
it betokens a strife between him and the person next to whom it fell. To avert the omen, he
must lift up the shed grains with a knife, and throw them behind his back.

9. After eating eggs in Holland, you must break the shells, or the witches would sail over
in them to England. The English don't know under what obligations they are to the Dutch for
this custom. Please to tell them.

10. If you make a present of a knife or scissors, the person receiving must pay something for
it; otherwise the friendship between you would be cut off.

11. A tingling ear denotes there is somebody speaking of you behind your back. If you hear
the noise in the right one, he praises you; if on the left side, he is calling you a scoundrel,
or something like that. But, never mind! for if, in the latter case, you bite your little finger,
the evil speaker's tongue will be in the same predicament. By all means, don't spare your little
finger!

12. If, at a dinner, a person yet unmarried be placed inadvertently between a married couple,
be sure he or she will get a partner within the year. It's a pity it must be inadvertently.

13. If a person when rising throw down his chair, he is considered guilty of untruth.

14. A potato begged or stolen is a preservative against rheumatism. Chestnuts have the same
efficacy.

15. The Nymphæa, or water-lily, whose broad leaves, and clear white or yellow cups, float upon
the water, was esteemed by the old Frisians to have a magical power. "I remember, when a boy,"
says Dr. Halbertsma, "that we were extremely careful in plucking and handling them; for if
any one fell with such a flower in his possession, he became immediately subject to fits."

16. One of my friends cut himself. A manservant being present secured the knife hastily, anointed
it with oil, and putting it into the drawer, besought the patient not to touch it for some
days. Whether the cure was effected by this sympathetic means, I can't affirm; but cured it
was: so, don't be alarmed.

17. If you feel on a sudden a shivering sensation in your back, there is somebody walking over
your future grave.

18. A person speaking by himself will die a violent death.

19. Don't go under a ladder, for if you do you will be hanged.

* a ?

Amsterdam.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

In reading these lines, some time ago, I was forcibly struck with the incongruity of the terms
"sipp'd" and "industrious" as applied to "bug;" and it occurred to me that Pope may have originally
written the passage with the words "free" and "bee," as the rhymes of the two last lines. My
reasons for this conjecture are these: 1st. Because Pope is known to have been very fastidious
on the score of coarse or vulgar expressions; and his better judgment would have recoiled from
the use of so offensive a word as "bug." 2ndly. Because, as already stated, the terms "sipp'd"
and "industrious" are inapplicable to a bug. Of the bug it may be said, that it "sucks" and
"plunders;" but it cannot, with any propriety, be predicated of it, as of the bee, that it
"sips" and is "industrious." My impression is, that when Pope found he was doing too much honour
to Tibbald by comparing him to a bee, he substituted the word "bug" and its corresponding rhyme,
without reflecting that some of the epithets, already applied to the one, are wholly inapplicable
to the other.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, March, 1851.

Rub-a-dub.--This word is put forward as an instance of how new words are still formed with
a view to similarity of sound with the sound of what they are intended to express, by Dr. Francis
Lieber, in a "Paper on the Vocal Sounds of Laura Bridgeman compared with the Elements of Phonetic
Language," and its authorship is assigned {388} to Daniel Webster, who said in a speech of
July 17, 1850:

    "They have been beaten incessantly every month, and every day, and
    every hour, by the din, and roll, and rub-a-dub of the Abolition
    presses."

Dr. L. adds:

    "No dictionary in my possession has rub-a-dub; by and by the
    lexicographer will admit this, as yet, half-wild word."

My note is, that though this word be not recognised by the dictionaries, yet it is by no means
so new as Dr. L. supposes; for I distinctly remember that, some four-and-twenty years ago,
one of those gay-coloured books so common on the shelves of nursery libraries had, amongst
other equally recherché couplets, the following attached to a gaudy print of a military drum:

 "Not a rub-a-dub will come
  To sound the music of a drum:"

--no great authority certainly, but sufficient to give the word a greater antiquity than Dr.
L. claims for it; and no doubt some of your readers will be able to furnish more dignified
instances of its use.

J. EASTWOOD.

Ecclesfield.

    [To this it may be added, that Dub-a-dub is found in Halliwell's
    Arch. Gloss. with the definition, "To beat a drum; also, the blow on
    the drum. 'The dub-a-dub of honour.' Woman is a weathercock, p. 21.,
    there used metaphorically." Mr. Halliwell might also have cited the
    nursery rhyme:

     "Sing rub-a-dub-dub,
      Three men in a tub."]

Quotations.--

    1. "In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke."

    Quoted in Much Ado about Nothing, Act I. Sc. 1.

Mr. Knight (Library Edition, ii. 379.) says this line is from Hieronymo, but gives no reference,
and I have not found it. In a sonnet by Thomas Watson (A.D. 1560-91) occurs the line (see Ellis's
Specimens)--

    "In time the bull is brought to bear the yoke."

Whence did Shakspeare quote the line?

2. "Nature's mother-wit." This phrase is found in Dryden's "Ode to St. Cecilia," and also in
Spenser, Faerie Queene, book iv. canto x. verse 21. Where does it first occur?

3. "The divine chit-chat of Cowper." Query, Who first designated the "Task" thus? Charles Lamb
uses the phrase as a quotation. (See Final Memorials of Charles Lamb, i. 72.)

J. H. C.

Adelaide, South Australia.

Minnis.--There are (or there were) in East Kent seven Commons known by the local term "Minnis,"
viz., 1. Ewell Minnis; 2. River do.; 3. Cocclescombe do.; 4. Swingfield do.; 5. Worth do.;
6. Stelling do.; 7. Rhode do. Hasted (History of Kent) says he is at a loss for the origin
of the word, unless it be in the Latin "Mina," a certain quantity of land, among different
nations of different sizes; and he refers to Spelman's Glossary, verbum "Mina."

Now the only three with which I am acquainted, River, Ewell, and Swingfield Minnis, near Dover,
are all on high ground; the two former considerably elevated above their respective villages.

One would rather look for a Saxon than a Celtic derivation in East Kent; but many localities,
&c. there still retain British or Celtic names, and eminently so the stream that runs through
River and Ewell, the Dour or Dwr, unde, no doubt, Dover, where it disembogues into the sea.
May we not therefore likewise seek in the same language an interpretation of this (at least
as far as I know) hitherto unexplained term?

In Armorican we find "Menez" and "Mene," a mount. In the kindred dialect, Cornish, "Menhars"
means a boundary-stone; "Maenan" (Brit.), stoney moor; "Mynydh" (Brit.), a mountain, &c.

As my means of research are very limited, I can only hazard a conjecture, which it will give
me much pleasure to see either refuted or confirmed by those better informed.

A. C. M.

Brighton.--It is stated in Lyell's Principles of Geology, that in the reign of Elizabeth the
town of Brighton was situated on that tract where the Chain Pier now extends into the sea;
that in 1665 twenty-two tenements still remained under the cliffs; that no traces of the town
are perceptible; that the sea has resumed its ancient position, the site of the old town having
been merely a beach abandoned by the ocean for ages. On referring to the "Attack of the French
on Brighton in 1545," as represented in the engraving in the Archæologia, April 14, 1831, I
find the town standing apparently just where it is now, with "a felde in the middle," but with
some houses on the beach opposite what is not Pool Valley, on the east side of which houses
the French are landing; the beach end of the road from Lewes.

A. C.

Voltaire's "Henriade."--I have somewhere seen an admirable translation of this poem into English
verse. Perhaps you can inform me of the author's name. The work seems to be scarce, as I recollect
having seen it but once: it was published, I think, about thirty years ago. (See antè, p. 330.)

The house in which Voltaire was born, at Chatnaye, about ten miles from Paris, is now the property
of the Comtesse de Boigne, widow of the General de Boigne, and daughter of the Marquis d'Osmond,
who was ambassador here during the reign of Louis XVIII. The mother of the poet being on a
visit with the then proprietor (whose name I cannot recollect), was unexpectedly confined.
There is a street in the village called the Rue Voltaire. The Comtesse de Boigne is my {389}
authority for the fact of the poet's birth having taken place in her house.

A. J. M.

Alfred Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

THE BLAKE FAMILY.

The renowned Admiral Blake, a native of Bridgewater, and possessed of property in the neighbourhood,
left behind him a numerous family of brothers, sisters, nephews, and nieces, settled in the
county of Somerset; to wit, his brothers Humphrey, William, George, Nicholas, Benjamin, and
Alexander all survived him, as did also his sisters, Mrs. Bowdich, of Chard, and Mrs. Smith,
of Cheapside, in London. His brother Samuel, killed in an early part of the Civil War, left
two sons, Robert and Samuel, both of them honourably remembered in the will of their great
uncle. Can any of your readers, acquainted with Somerset genealogies, give me any information
which may enable me to make out the descent of the present families of Blake, in that county,
from this stock?

