'Behold! He putteth no trust in His saints, and the heavens are not pure in His sight,' he
murmured. But he hesitated not to obey, and giving his hand to the Angel, said:

'Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him!'

His earnest lips still thrilling with a prayer for mercy, together they departed 'for that
bourne from which no traveller returns.' Between the imperfections of the created and the perfections
of the Creator, what can fill the infinite abyss? Infinite Love alone!

       *       *       *       *       *

The artist-brothers had never separated. Music, Poetry, and Painting spring from the triune
existence of man, represent his life in its triune being, and thus move harmoniously together.

They had made their home the happiest spot on earth.

It was evening, and the Poet seemed lost in revery as he gazed on the dying light. His hand
rested tenderly on the shoulder of a dark but brilliant woman, who loved him with the strength
of a fervid soul.

'Sibyl,' said he softly to his young wife, 'were I now to leave thee, how many of my lines
would remain written on thy heart?'

'All! they are all graven there,' replied the enthusiast, 'for the glowing words of a pure
poet are the true echoes of a woman's soul!'

The Painter sat near them, putting the last touches upon a picture of a Virgin and Child, which
he was striving so to finish that his brethren might be able to grasp more fully that sweet
scene of human love and God's strange mercy.

Tender were the shadows that fell from the veiling lashes on the rounded cheek of his fair
model; lustrous, yet soft and meek, the light from the maiden's eye as she gazed upon the beautiful
infant resting on her bosom. The name of the child was Jemschid, and there was in that name
a charm sufficient to awaken her innocent love.

She was the betrothed of the Painter.

'Imogen!' said he to the fair model, 'I know not why the thought rushes so sadly over me, but
I feel I shall never finish this picture. The traits escape me--I cannot find them.'

'Never finish the beautiful Madonna, to which you have given so much time, and on which you
have expended so much care!' Then with a sudden change of tone, in which astonishment darkened
into fear, she exclaimed: 'Are you ill, Jemschid? You have already worked too long upon it.
You will destroy your health; you need rest.'

'Nay, sweet Imogen, not so; I am well, quite well, and too happy for words. But I cannot finish
the picture. I have lost the expression for the face of the Madonna. Six months ago, when I
began it, your face was so meek and tranquil it served me well, but now, even with its present
air of meek entreaty, it is too passionate for the mother of God. It is far dearer thus to
me, Imogen--but I can never finish the painting now--and only an angel can, for your young
face is fairer and purer than aught else on earth.'

Again fell the heavy lashes, half veiling the innocent love in the timid eyes, as the Painter
parted the massive braids from the spotless brow, and softly kissed the snowy forehead of his
betrothed.

The harp of Angelo quivered, as the sun set behind the crimson clouds, under his nervous touch.
Some sadness seemed to weigh upon his buoyant spirit too, in this eventful eve. His music always
pictured the depths of his own soul, and he forced the heaven tones to wail the human Miserere.
But the Beauty into which the sorrow was transfigured gave promise that it would end in the
triumphant chorus of the 'Hosanna in Excelsis.' For music gives the absolute peace in the absolute
conflict; the absolute conflict to terminate in the absolute peace.

Fair as the Angel of Hope, the Rose listened with her heart. Her childlike, deep blue eyes
were raised to heaven, while her long golden curls, lighting rather than shading her pale brow,
like the halos of dim glory which the light vapors wreathe round the moon, mingled with the
darker flow of wavy hair falling upon the shoulder of the harpist, on which she leaned as if
to catch the flying sounds as they soared from the heart of the loved one.

'Thy song is very sad,' said the Rose, as her eyes rested tenderly upon the inspired face.
'Is there no Gloria to-night, Angelo?'

'I cannot sing it now, sweet Rosalie! The Hosanna is for heaven; not for a world in which Love
is, and Death may enter. If I am to lose thee, my soul must chant the Miserere. Ah! that thought
unmans me. I cannot part from thee, sweet wife. Cling closer, closer to me, Rosalie. There!
Death must be strong to untwine that clasp! But he alone is strong--and Love'--

'Love is stronger far!' cried the startled Rose, as she buried her face in the bosom of her
husband, to hide the unwonted tears which dimmed her trustful eyes.

'Parting! there is no parting for those whom God has joined. His ties are for eternity. The
Merciful parts not those whom He has made for each other. Even if we must chant the Miserere
here, together will we chant the Gloria before the throne of our Creator. Ah, Angelo, do you
not feel that but one life throbs in our two hearts? Parting and Death are only seeming!'

Thus sped time on until midnight was upon the earth. The little group were still together;
mystic thoughts and previsions were upon them. Zophiel read at intervals weird passages from
the Book of Life; Jemschid touched, now and then, the face of the Madonna, and some unwonted
spirit of sorrow brooded over the harp of Angelo.

'Rosalie! once more the Miserere ere we sleep,' said he. Scarcely had he commenced the solemn
chant, when, suddenly resting his hand on the chords, he cried: 'Hark! brothers. It is the
voice of Anselm--he calls he calls us--but I hear not what he says. Listen!'

Lo! a Shining One from the court of the Great King suddenly stands among them. His gossamer
robes seemed woven of the deep blue of the fields of space through which he had just passed,
and the stars were glittering through the graceful folds bound with rare devices, wrought from
the jasper, onyx, and chrysoprase of the heavenly city.

'Brothers!' said the sweet voice of the beautiful vision, 'the term of exile is past; the Father
has sent me to recall His children.'

But the heart of the artists sank, for the human love was strong in their bosoms.

Jemschid gazed upon the betrothed bride; the unfinished picture; and tears rushed into his
sad eyes.

The Angel was touched with pity for the double grief of artist and lover, and said:

'Gaze not so sorrowfully upon the unwedded maiden; the unfinished picture! She shall yet be
thine-and the picture shall be dear to thy fellow men. Lo! I am Rubi, the angel of Beauty!'

Then, taking the brush in his glittering hands, with rapid touch he gave the lovely face an
expression of tender innocence, of virgin purity, of maternal love and adoration, which will
never cease to thrill the heart of the faithful.

'It is the Mother of our Lord!' said the astonished brothers, as they gazed upon the finished work.

'Zophiel!' continued the pitying angel, 'the lips of Sibyl shall repeat thy songs, for they
are all graven upon her heart! But you are now to chant in heaven, and the canticle is to be
for His praise who made all; and when you exalt Him, put forth all your strength, and be not
weary; for you can never go far enough!

'Angelo! the Hosanna is for heaven. The Rose lingers not here to chant alone the Miserere.'

Alas! the wild human dread and sorrow overpowered all else in the breasts of the brothers as
they gazed upon the women of their love. A strange smile played over the heavenly face of the
Angel as he murmured: 'Are they not safe in the bosom of the everlasting Love?'

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly through the Valley of the Shadow--and then more rapid than the flight of thought, moved
the brothers, on--on--through myriads upon myriads of blazing suns, of starry universes; on--on--until
they reached the limits of space, the boundary of material worlds. The angels left them as
they entered the primeval night of chaos, the shoreless ocean between the sensuous and spiritual
life. For alone with God through chaos do we arrive at the sensuous body; alone with God in
chaos do we leave this body of corruption, from which is evolved the Body of the Spirit, 'glorious
and unchangeable.' And again is clasped the thread of Identity, on which are strung the pearls
of memory, and the Past and Future of Time become the Eternal Present!

       *       *       *       *       *

Clothed in immortal vesture, the brothers now stand before that Great White Throne, which has
no shadow, but is built of Light inaccessible, and full of Glory.

Summoned by the Holy Lawgiver, the meek Anselm knelt before Him, blinded with splendor, dazzled
with fathomless majesty.

'Behold thy creature before thee for judgment, O Thou in whose sight the angels are not pure!
We are born to evil, and who may endure thy justice? Look not into my weak and sinful heart,
O God, but upon the face of Thy Anointed, in whom is all my trust! Have mercy upon me!'

Tears of mingled gratitude and penitence welled up, as in the days of exile, from his self-accusing
breast.

Wonderful condescension the Father Himself wiped them from the downcast eyes!

'And I will give him the morning star.'

Thus the humble and self-abnegating Anselm, who had kept the commandments and loved his Maker,
passed in glory to the Saints of Power. The morn of the Eternal Present dawned upon him, and
the sublime 'vision in God' was open before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then were the artists summoned before the Throne. Awed yet enchanted, they bowed before their
Maker, with raised hands clasped in gratitude for the happiness they had known on earth. Then
spoke Angelo, the musician:

'Behold thy grateful children at thy feet, O Father of earth and heaven! We truly repent of
all we may have done amiss in Thy lower world. Thy heritage was very fair, and the exceeding
Beauty thereof covered the Evil, and in all things were planted the germs of Good. 'Our prayer
was in our work,' and all things spake to us of Thee, for the hand of a Father made all. Forgive
us if we have loved life too well; we have always felt that the rhythmed pulse of our own hearts
throbbed but in obedience to Thy tuneful laws! Loving our fellow men, we have labored to awake
them to a sense of Thy tenderness, O Creator of Love and of Beauty, so unsparingly casting
the ever-new glories around them! Father, we have loved Thee in thy glorious creation. For
He made the nations of the earth for health: and there is no poison of destruction in them,
nor kingdom of hell upon earth.

"For justice is perpetual and immortal.'

"We have looked upon the rainbow, and blessed Him that made it: for it was very beautiful in
its brightness.'

"For by the greatness of the Beauty, and of the creature, the Creator of them may be seen so
as to be known thereby.'

"It is good to give praise to the Lord: to show forth thy loving kindness in the morning, and
thy truth in the night;

"Upon an instrument of ten strings, upon the psaltery, upon the harp with a solemn sound.

"For thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy works, and in the works of thy hand I shall
rejoice.'

'Have mercy upon us for the sake of the Redeemer, whose Perfection crowns the universe, who
has not disdained to give Himself to us, and for us: the chief among ten thousand, and altogether
lovely. Mercy for ourselves--and for those whom we have left on earth, we beseech Thee!'

Gently smiled the Virgin Mother, whose humble heart had cradled the Everlasting Love! 'All
generations shall call her blessed,' for on that tender woman bosom rests that wondrous God-built
arch spanning the awful Chaim between the sinful human and the Perfect Infinite! 'For He was
born of a Virgin.'

The heart of Anselm throbbed through his garments white and pure; he loved his brothers, and
feared that human art would be deemed vain and worthless in heaven. For the saints forget that
God himself is the Great Artist!

Then was there silence in heaven, and the brothers knelt before the Throne.

The Father spoke:

'Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and
into his courts with praise, be thankful unto him, and bless his name: the Lion of the tribe
of Judah hath conquered. He will give to him that overcometh to eat of the Tree of Life, which
is in the Paradise of God.'

The silence that ensued was the bliss of heaven!

As Rubi, the Angel of Beauty, advanced to greet the spirits whom he had left on the confines
of chaos, the triumphant song burst from the young choir of angels: 'For they shall not hunger
nor thirst any more; neither shall the sun fall on them or any heat. For the Lamb, which is
in the midst of the throne, shall rule them, and shall lead them to the fountains of the waters
of life, and God shall wipe away all tears from their fives.'

Joy! joy! for the soul of the musician! The heart of the Rose had broken while chanting the
last Miserere, and she was again at his side to catch his first Hosanna!

'Angelo--Angelo--parting and death are only seeming!'

To the soul of the poet was given the highest theme, the splendor and love of the Eternal City,
and power to join the scribes of heaven.

The strings of Angelo's heaven harp quivered as though stirred by the breath of God.

Then did he first truly discern the soul of that divine language whose form he had made known
on earth. To Him that sitteth on the Throne, and to the Lamb, Benediction, and Honor, and Glory,
and Power, forever and ever!'

UNUTTERED.

                  Said a poet, sighing lowly,
                  As his life ebbed slowly, slowly,
  And upon his pallid features shone the sun's last rosy light,
                  Shedding there a radiance tender,
                  Softened from the dazzling splendor
  Of the burning clouds of sunset, gleaming in the west so bright,
  Glancing redly, ere forever lost within the gloom of night:

                  'Gold and crimson clouds of even,
                  Kindling the blue vault of heaven,
  Ye are types of airy fancies that within my spirit glow!
                  Thou, O Night, so darkly glooming,
                  And those brilliant tints entombing
  In thy black and heavy shadows, thou art like this life of woe,
  Prisoning all the glorious visions that still beat their wings to go!

                  'Oh, what brilliancy and glory
                  Had illumed my life's dull story,
  Could those thoughts have found expression as within my soul they shone!
                  But though there like jewels gleaming,
                  And with golden splendor streaming,
  Cold and dim their lustre faded, tarnished, like the sparkling stone
  That, from out the blue waves taken, looks a pebble dull alone.
                  'For within my heart forever
                  Was a never-dying river,
  Was a spring of deathless music welling from my deepest soul!
                  And all Nature's deep intonings,
                  Merry songs, and plaintive meanings,
  Floated softly through my spirit, swelling where those bright waves stole,
  Till the prisoning walls seemed powerless 'gainst that billowy rush and roll.

                  'Oh, the surging thoughts and fancies;
                  Oh, the wondrous, wild romances
  That from morn till dewy twilight murmured through my haunted brain!
                  Thoughts as sweet as summer roses,
                  And with music's dreamiest closes,
  Dying faintly into silence, from the full and ringing strain
  That through all my spirit sounded with a rapture half of pain.

                  'How I longed those words to utter
                  That within my heart would flutter,
  Beating wild against their prison, as its walls they'd burst in twain:
                  But it broke not, throbbing only,
                  Aching in a silence lonely,
  Till my very life was flooded with a wild, delicious pain;
  Kindled with a blaze illuming all the chambers of my brain!

                  'And to me death had been glorious,
                  If those burning words, victorious,
  Had at last surged o'er their prison, bearing my departing soul!
                  Gladly were my heart's blood given,
                  If those bonds I might have riven;
  If, with every crimson lifedrop that from out my full heart stole,
  I might hear that swelling chorus upward in its glory roll.

                  'Sad and low my heart is beating!
                  Each pulsation still repeating
  'All in vain those eager longings, all in vain that burning prayer.
                  See the breezes, 'mid the bowers,
                  Sigh above the fragrant flowers,
  And from out those drooping roses, their heart-folded sweetness bear--
  But no heaven-sent wind shall whisper thy soul-breathings to the air.'

                  'But upon my darkened vision
                  Comes a gleam of light Elysian;
  And a seraph voice breathes softly--'Answered yet shall be that prayer!
                  For the spirit crushed and broken
                  By those burning words unspoken,
  Soon shall hear them swelling, floating far upon the heavenly air,
  And its deepest inmost visions shall have perfect utterance there!''

WILLIAM LILLY, ASTROLOGER.
  A total overthrow given the king
  In Cornwall, horse and foot, next spring?'

Thus much, and more, wrote Butler in his 'Hudibras' of William Lilly, who was famous in London
during that eventful period of English history from the time of Charles I, onward through the
Commonwealth and the Protectorate, to the Restoration: a time of civil commotions and wars,
when political parties and religious sects, striving for mastery, or struggling for existence,
made the lives and estates of men insecure, and their outlook in many respects a troubled one.
Lifelong connections of families and neighbors were then rudely severed, and doubt, distrust,
and discontent filled all minds, or most. Of this widespread commotion London was the active
centre; and there a judgment of God, called the plague, had, in the year 1625, desolated whole
streets. The timid, time-serving, faithless, a wavering host, peered anxiously into the future,
eager to know what might be hidden there, so that they could shape their course accordingly
for safety or for profit. Finding their own short vision inadequate, they turned for aid to
the professional prophets of that troublous time--magicians who could call forth spirits and
make them speak, or astrologers who could read the stars, and show how the great Disposer of
events could be forestalled. These discoverers of the hidden, disclosers of the future, though
branded now as impostors, were not therefore worse than their dupes; for in all ages the two
classes, deceivers and deceived, are essentially alike; positives and negatives of the same
thing. 'Men are not deceived; they deceive themselves.' Witness a great American nation, in
these latter days, electing its ablest man to its highest place, and choosing between a Fremont
and a Buchanan! But let us turn quickly to the seventeenth century again, and leave the nineteenth
to its day of judgment. He says: 'I could not work, drive plough, or endure any country labor;
my father oft would say, 'I was good for nothing,' and 'he was willing to be rid of me.' A
sorrowful time for the poor young fellow, without any outlook toward a better. But at last,
one Samuel Smatty, an attorney, living in the neighborhood, took pity on the lad, and gave
him a letter to Gilbert Wright, of London, who wanted a youth who could read and write, to
attend him. Thereupon Lilly, in a suit of fustian, with this letter in his pocket, and ten
shillings, given him by his friends, took leave of his father, who was then in Leicester jail
for debt, and set off for London with 'Bradshaw, the carrier.' He 'footed it all along,' and
was six days on the way; spending for food two shillings and sixpence, and nothing for lodgings;
but he was in good heart, I think, for almost the only joyous expression in his autobiography
is this one, relating to this time: 'Hark, how the wagons crack with their rich lading!'

Gilbert Wright, who had been 'servant to the Lady Pawlet in Hertfordshire,' had married a widow
with property, and lived afterward 'on his annual rents;' or on his wife's, and 'was of no
calling or profession.' This man had real need of a servant who could read and write, for he
himself could do neither; but he was, however, 'a man of excellent natural parts, and would
speak publicly upon any occasion very rationally and to the purpose.' Lilly was kindly received
by Master Wright, who found, it seems, employment enough for him. 'She was about seventy years
of age, he sixty-six,' 'yet was never any woman more jealous of a husband than she!' She vexed
more than one man, too, and her first husband had temptations to cut his own throat and escape
from trouble so; but he, as we shall learn by and by, got some relief otherwise, and lived
till death came by better means. In the other circumference there was Amraphel, and three ~+ + +~.

After this mistress had gone, Lilly lived very comfortably, his 'master having a great affection'
for him; and also a great confidence in him, it seems; for when the plague (1625) began to
rage in London, the master went for safety into Leicestershire, leaving Lilly and a fellow
servant to keep the house, in which was much money and plate, belonging to his master and others.
Lilly was faithful to his charge in this fearful time, and kept himself cheerful by amusements.
Master Wright was probably a happy man for a time; but only for a short time; for in May, 1627,
he died, and the estate, by agreement of the parties in it, was assigned to Lilly for payment
of its debts. The trust was not misplaced; the debts were all paid, and the remainder of the
estate, except an annuity of twenty pounds, which his master had settled on Lilly, he returned
to the executors. Serving faithfully, the much-enduring young man won the love and confidence
of the old master and mistress, and at last married the young widow, who was a wholesome-looking
woman, of brown ruddy complexion, and had property, which served, among other things, to make
Lilly 'free of the Salters' company.' Not a bad history, certainly, if not one of the best:
he was a thriving young man, not a complaining one; but one who accepted the conditions under
which he was placed, and made the best of them; which is what all young men ought to do. He
came with Lord Bothwell, and 'desired Evans to show them a spirit.' But 'after some time of
invocation, Evans was taken out of the room, and carried into the fields near Battersea causeway,
close to the Thames:' taken by the spirits, because the magician 'had not at the time of invocation
made any suffumigation;' for spirits must always be treated gingerly. 'Sir Kenelm Digby and
Lord Bothwell went home without any harm;' which was better than they deserved.

In October of this year, 1633, Lilly's wife died, and left him 'very near to the value of one
thousand pounds sterling'--all she had to leave. He continued a widower 'a whole year,' which
he, as that phrase implies, held to be a long time in such bereavement--and followed his studies
in astrology very diligently. In that same year he, with some 'other gentlemen,' engaged in
an adventure for hidden treasure: they 'played the hazel rod round about the cloyster,' and
digged, in the place indicated, six feet deep, till they came to a coffin; but they did not
open it, for which they were afterward regretful, thinking that it probably contained the treasure.
Suddenly, while they were at this work, a great wind arose, 'so high, so blustering, and loud,'
that all were frightened, 'and knew not what to think or do;' all save Lilly, who gave 'directions
and commands to dismiss the dæmons,' and then all became quiet again. This astrologer did not
always rely on his special art to discover things hidden, but used often quite ordinary means;
sometimes such as are common to officers of detective police. His confessions of doings in
that kind are candid enough, and we must say of his 'History of his Life and Times' that it
is, on the whole, a simple, truthful statement of facts; not an apology for a life at all;
for he seldom attempts to excuse or justify his actions, but leaves a plain record with the
reader for good or evil.

A man, it is sometimes said, is to be judged by the company he keeps, and we will therefore
say a few words of this astrologer's friends. Of men like William Pennington, of Muncaster,
in Cumberland, 'of good family and estate,' introduced to Lilly by David Ramsay, the king's
clockmaker, in 1634, who are otherwise unknown to us, we will say nothing. But the reader surely
knows something of Hugh Peters, the Puritan preacher--who could do other things as well as
preach: with him Lilly had 'much conference and some private discourses,' and once in the Christmas
holidays, a time of leisure, Peters and the Lord Gray of Groby invited him to Somerset House,
and requested him to bring two of his almanacs. At another time Peters took Lilly along with
him into Westminster Hall 'to hear the king tried.' But the most influential friend, perhaps,
was Sir Bulstrode Whitlocke, a man well known to readers of English history as very prominent
in the time of the Commonwealth and Protectorate. He was high steward of Oxford, member of
the council of state, one of the keepers of the great seal, a man very learned in the law,
who made long discourses to Oliver Cromwell on the matter of the kingship, and on other matters.
He went to Sweden as Cromwell's ambassador, and was one of the great men of that time, or one
of the considerable men. Sir Bulstrode, according to Ashmole, was Lilly's patron; and indeed
the great man did befriend him long, and help him out of difficulties. The acquaintance began
in this wise: Sir Bulstrode being sick, Mrs. Lisle, 'wife to John Lisle,' afterward one of
the keepers of the great seal, came to Lilly, bringing a specimen of the sick man.

Lilly's most intimate friend, however, was Elias Ashmole, Esq. Born in 1617, the name for him
agreed on among his friends was Thomas; but at the baptismal font the godfather, 'by a more
than ordinary impulse of spirit,' said Elias; and under that prophetic name the boy grew up
to manhood, and became for a time rather famous in high places. He was a learned antiquary,
and made a description of the consular and imperial coins at Oxford, and presented it, in three
folio volumes, to the library there. He made also a catalogue and description of the king's
medals; a book on the Order of the Garter; a book entitled, Fasciculus Chemicus, and another,
Theatrum Chemicum. He published, moreover, a book called 'The Way to Bliss;' but if he himself
ever arrived at that thing, he found the way uncomfortable, if we may judge from his diary,
half filled with record of his ailments, surfeits, and diseases, and of the sweatings, purgings,
and leechings consequent thereupon, or intended as preventives thereof. To one kind of bliss,
however, he did certainly attain--that of high society; dining often with lords, earls, and
dukes, bishops and archbishops, foreign envoys, ambassadors, and princes; and they, many of
them, came in turn, and dined with him, who had made a book on the Order of the Garter, and
who understood the art of dining. Continental kings sent to this man chains of gold, and his
gracious majesty, Charles II, was very gracious to him, and gave him fat offices, mostly sinecures:
and over and above all he gave a pension. This world is a very remarkable one--especially remarkable
in the upper crust of it.

Lilly's acquaintance with Ashmole began in 1646, and continued till death did them part in
1681. Through all these thirty-five years there was a close intimacy, Ashmole being a frequent
visitor at Lilly's house in the country, staying there often months at a time, and Lilly in
return coming often to London, and staying weeks with his honored friend--a kind of Damon and
Pythias affair without the heroics. Ashmole, we said, was famous in his time; but indeed he
has a kind of fame now, and cannot soon be altogether forgotten, for he founded the Ashmolean
Museum at Oxford, and in the library there the curious can probably find all his books, and
read them, if they will; but I, who have read one of them, shall not seek for more.[3]

But indeed Lilly attracted the attention of Oliver Cromwell himself, and once had an interview
with him--a remarkably silent one. The occasion of it was as follows: The astrologer, in his
Martinus Anglicus (astrological almanac) for 1650, had written that 'the Parliament should
not continue, but a new government should arise;' and the next year he 'was so bold as to aver
therein that the Parliament stood upon a tottering foundation, and that the commonalty and
soldiers would join together against it.' These things, and others, published in Anglicus,
offended the Presbyterians, and on motion of some one of them, it was ordered that 'Anglicus
should be inspected by the committee for plundered ministers;' and the next day thereafter
Lilly was brought before the committee, which was very full that day (thirty-six in number),
for the matter was an interesting one, whispered of before in private, and now made public
by prophecy. The astrologer, by skilful management of friends, and some lies of his own, got
off without damage to himself.

At the close of the first day's proceedings in committee, as the sergeant-at-arms was carrying
Lilly away, he was commanded to bring him into the committee room again. 'Oliver Cromwell,
lieutenant-general of the army, having never seen me, caused me to be produced again, where
he steadfastly beheld me for a good space, and then I went with the messenger.' This first
meeting was, it appears, the only one, for Lilly speaks of no other; but Cromwell spoke a good
word for him that same night, and was ever after rather friendly to him, or at least tolerant
of him. The lieutenant-general, looking fixedly at this man 'for a good space,' saw nothing
very bad in him; and knowing that his prophecies favored the good cause, he, a man of strong,
practical sense, was willing to let him work as one of the influences of that time.

This was not Lilly's only appearance before Parliament; sixteen years later we shall find him
there again; but of that at its time; and we will look first at some of his doings in the interim.
With another general our astrologer had a meeting too, but with him--General Fairfax--there
was talk, not so full of meaning to me as the silence of Cromwell. 'There being,' says Lilly,
'in those times, some smart difference between the army and Parliament, the headquarters of
the army were at Windsor, whither I was carried with a coach and four horses, and John Boker
(an astrologer) with me.

Our astrologer, professing a high art, standing above the common level, did not give 'up to
party what was meant for mankind.' The stars look down, from their high places, on sublunary
things, with a sublime indifference; and he, their interpreter, was at the service of all comers,
or of all who could pay. Many came to him; among others came 'Madam Whorwood,' from King Charles,
who intended to escape from Hampton Court, where he was held prisoner by the army. She came
to inquire 'in what quarter of this nation he (the king) might be most safe?' Lilly, after
'erection of his figure,' said, 'about twenty miles from London, and in Essex,' 'he might continue
undisturbed;' but the poor king, misguided by himself, or others, 'went away in the night time
westward, and surrendered to Hammond in the Isle of Wight. Twice again, according to Lilly,
Madam Whorwood came to him, asking advice and assistance for the king. This Madam Whorwood
I have not met with elsewhere in my reading, and the name may be a fictitious one; but that
King Charles, in his straits, sought aid of William Lilly, who by repute could read the stars,
is not improbable. With each of his three wives he got money. The second one, who, as we remember,
'was of the nature of Mars,' died in February, 1654, and the bereaved man says that he thereupon
'shed no tear;' which we can well believe.

Soon after this, when the great plague of 1665 came upon London, Lilly gave up business there
and retired into the country to his wife and family, and continued there for the remainder
of his life; going up to the great city occasionally to visit his friends, or on calls to business
in his special line: one call from a high quarter came to him in this shape:

'Monday, 22d October, 1666. 'The twins signify Gemini, a sign in astrology which rules London:'
all around stand figures, male and female, pouring liquids (oil or water?) on the flames. When,
therefore, the great fire of 1666 followed the plague of the preceding year, these hieroglyphics
again attracted attention, and the maker of them was called before Parliament to declare if
he, who had foreseen these events, could see into them, and give any explanation of their causes.
Their titles, so far as known to us, are as follows: 'Supernatural Insight;' 'The White King's
Prophecy;' 'The Starry Messenger;' 'A Collection of Prophecies;' an introduction to astrology,
called, 'Christian Astrology;' 'The World's Catastrophe;' 'The Prophecies of Merlin, with a
Key thereto;' 'Trithemius of the Government of the World by the Presiding Angels;' 'A Treatise
of the Three Suns seen the preceding winter,' which was the winter of 1648; 'An Astronomical
Judgment;' 'Annus Tenebrosus;' 'Merlinus Anglicus,' a kind of astrological almanac, published
annually for many years, containing many prophecies--a work which got extensive circulation,
'the Anglicus of 1658 being translated into the language spoken in Hamburg, printed and cried
about the streets as it is in London;' and his 'Majesty of Sweden,' of whom 'honorable mention'
was made in Anglicus, sent to the author of it 'a gold chain and a medal worth about fifty pounds.'

Of these books made by Lilly, we, having little knowledge, indeed none at all of the most of
them, do not propose to speak; but one who has looked into the 'Introduction to Astrology'
can say that it has something of method and completeness, and he can readily conceive how Lilly,
studying astrology through long years very diligently, then practising it, instructing other
men in it, writing books about it, could have himself some kind of belief in it; such belief
at least as many men have in the business they study, practise, and get fame and pudding by.
Consider, too, how his belief in his art must have been strengthened and confirmed by the belief
of other men in it; able men of former times, and respectable men of his own time. Indeed we
will say of astrology generally that it is a much better thing than the spiritualism of this
present day, with its idle rappings and silly mediums.

We have named some of Lilly's friends--those only of whom we happened to have some knowledge;
but he had many friends, or many acquaintances--a large circle of them. There were 'astrologers'
feasts' in those days, held monthly or oftener. Ashmole (called, by a more than ordinary impulse
of spirit, Elias) makes record in his Diary: 'Aug. 1, 1650, the astrologers' feast at Painter's
Hall, where I dined;' 'Oct. 31, the astrologers' feast;' and other entries there are to the
same effect. Some ten years after, Lilly seems to have had these festivals, or similar ones,
in his own house; and on the 24th October, 1660, one Pepys, well known to literary men, 'passed
the evening at Lilly's house, where he had a club of his friends.'[4]

Thus far, namely, to the year 1666, Lilly brought the history of his life: and in the continuation
of it by another hand, we learn that in the country at Horsham, near London, 'he betook himself
to the study of physic;' and in 1670, his old and influential friend, Mr. Ashmole, got for
him from the archbishop of Canterbury a license for the practice of it. The 'great agony' of
his diseases, which were complicated, he bore 'without complaint.' 'Immediately before his
breath went from him, he sneezed three times;' which, we will hope, cleared his head of some
nonsense.

In the judgment of his contemporaries, this William Lilly, astrologer, was, as we can see,
'a respectable man.' Such judgment, however, is never conclusive; for the time clement is always
a deceptive one; and, as all navigators know, the land which looms high in the atmosphere of
to-day does often, in the clearer atmosphere of other days, prove to be as flat as a panecake:
but we must say of Lilly, that though unfortunately an impostor, he was really rather above
the common level of mankind--a little hillock, if only of conglomerate or pudding stone: for,
in his pamphlet entitled 'Observations on the Life and Times of Charles I,' where he, looking
away from the stars and treating of the past, is more level to our judgment, he is still worth
reading; and does therein give a more impartial and correct character of that unhappy king
than can be found in any other contemporary writing; agreeing well with the best judgments
of this present time, and showing Lilly to be a man of ability above the common. On the whole,
we will say of him, that he was the product of a mother who was good for something, and of
a father who was good for nothing, or next to that; that with such parentage, and under such
circumstances as we have seen, he became an astrologer, the best of his kind in that time.

It would be easy to institute other moral reflections, and to pass positive judgment on the
man: but instead thereof I will place here two questions:

First: Did William Lilly, in the eighteenth year of his age, need anything except a little
cash capital to enable him to go up to the university and become a respectable clergyman of
the Church of England, or the minister of some dissenting congregation, if he had liked that
better?

Second: When this impostor and the clergymen, who as boys stood together in the same form of
the school at Ashby-de-la-Zouch, come together before the judgment bar of the Most High, will
the Great Judge say to each of the clergymen: Come up hither; and to the impostor: Depart,
thou cursed?

'A fool,' it is said, 'may ask questions which wise men cannot answer;' and the writer, having
done his part in asking, leaves the more difficult part for the consideration of the reader.[5]

FOOTNOTES:

