    "It further aims at insuring that the milk-supply for the city
    and district shall, like Cæsar's wife, be beyond suspicion, and
    it therefore enjoins on its members the necessity for taking
    every possible care that the sanitary conditions prevailing at
    the farms, in the dairies and during the transit of the milk to
    the public shall leave nothing to be desired. In short, its
    motto is, in these respects, 'Nilus secundus'."--Hampshire
    Chronicle.

If they must use water in their milk we are glad to think that the Nile is only their second
choice.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Sunday schools must try to 'wangle'--that was, a project
    their in-to 'wangle'--that was, to project their in-enlarged
    task, and attempt to do what seemed impossible."--Provincial
    Paper.

We would not go so far as to say impossible, but they certainly seem to have difficulties ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Good fish, fruit, and rabbit business for sale. No opposition
    fish or rabbits."--Bolton Journal.

It looks rather as if the fruit might disagree with you.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the heading, "Musical Instruments, etc.":--

    "AMERICAN mammoth bronze turkey cockerels, strong, healthy,
    grand stock birds; 20s. each."--Glasgow Herald.

You should hear these musical instruments throw off "Yankee-doodle." It is a tale of antique
Iceland and Norway. The first part, which is really padding and has nothing whatever to do
with Frey or his matrimonial affairs, treats of one Ogmund, who was called Ogmund Dint, for
the very good reason that he had been literally dinted as to the skull. It was done by a gentleman
named Halward. Everybody naturally expected Ogmund to dint back; but he was something of a
conscientious objector in the matter of face-to-face dinting, and being too proud for vulgar
conflict he bided his time till he could cut Halward's throat with the minimum of personal
inconvenience. End of padding and appearance of Frey. There is a picture of Frey on the cover
by Mr. MAURICE GREIFFENHAGEN. You know already what the GREIFFENHAGEN vikings are like--high-coloured,
well developed and (if I dare say it) sometimes a trifle wooden. Frey indeed looked so very
wooden that in my foolish ignorance I was tempted to protest. But the astonishing fact is that
Frey was not only wooden in appearance, but in actuality. How then could he have for wife a
slip of a sixteen-year-old maid that you may have met before in Mr HEWLETT's romances? This
however is the real story, which (pardon me) I do not mean to tell. If it is no tremendous
matter, it will at least please an idle hour, which will be almost time enough for you to enjoy
every word of it.

These Lynnekers (CASSELL) is yet another example of the "family" novel whose increasing popularity
I have lately noticed. It is a clever and interesting story--the name of Mr. J. D. BERESFORD
assured me in advance that it would be--and, when it is finished, the characters go on living
and speaking in one's mind, which is, I suppose, a sound proof of their vitality. Yet in a
sense vitality was just what most of the Lynneker tribe chiefly lacked. They were an ancient
and honourable house, country-born to the third and fourth generation, and all of them far
too conventional and apathetic and fuss-hating ever to follow any but the line of least resistance.
All of them, that is, except Dickie, who was the youngest of his father's numerous progeny,
and in more senses than one a sport. How Dickie released himself from the shackles of family
tradition, how he grew up and bustled things about, and generally made a real instead of a
conventional success--this is the matter of the tale. All the characters are well-drawn, and
about Dickie himself there is a compelling virility that rushes you along in his rather tempestuous
wake. I am not sure that I altogether believe in his attitude towards the question of sex.
He appeared to think generally too little, and on occasions remarkably too much, about it.
Also the painful detail with which the author lingers over the death of old Canon Lynneker
(that attractive and human figure of ecclesiastical gentility) roused me to resentment. When
will our novelists learn that, as regards the physical side of mortality, reticence is by far
the better part of realism? This marred a little my pleasure in a story for whose quality and
workmanship I should else have nothing but praise.

       *       *       *       *       *

In To Ruhleben--and Back (CONSTABLE), Mr. GEOFFREY PYKE has such a fine yarn to spin of his
foolhardy proceeding in walking right into the eagle's beak as correspondent for an English
newspaper, at the end of September, 1914, and (after some months' solitary confinement in Berlin
and his transfer to the civilian prisoners' miserable internment camp at Ruhleben) walking
right out of it again, that one can forgive him for spreading his elbows for a piece of expansive
writing when he was safe home. To tell the truth he writes extraordinarily well; one's only
feeling is that the simplest idiom would be best for such an amazing narrative, and Mr. PYKE
is too young and too clever (both charmingly venial faults) to write simply. When I tell you
that this persistent youngster, hardly out of his teens, patiently worked out a plan of escape
which depended for its efficacy on an optical illusion (the precise secret of which he does
not give away), and with his friend, Mr. EDWARD FALK, a District Commissioner from Nigeria,
part tramped, part bummel-zugged the two hundred and fifty miles or so from Ruhleben to the
Dutch frontier, disguised as tourists, with a kit openly bought at WERTHEIM's, living, when
marketing became too dangerous, on potatoes and other roots burglariously digged from the fields
at dark, you will gather that this is some adventure. But I am afraid the publication will
not assist any other prisoners at Ruhleben to escape. It is pleasant to note that the Commandant
of the Camp, VON TAUBB, was a sportsman and none too thickly tarred with the brush of Prussian
efficiency; and that the Governor, GRAF SCHWERIN, threatened resignation if a no-smoking order,
sent from headquarters, were insisted on. Indeed, the fact that our young friend was not shot
out of hand must stand as a small entry on the credit side, not inconveniently crowded, of
Prussia's account in the recording angel's ledger.

       *       *       *       *       *

In A Frenchwoman's Notes on the War (CONSTABLE) Mademoiselle CLAIRE DE PRATZ discourses pleasantly
and patriotically of sundry effects of the War on French life and character. She is excusably
proud of the part which her fellow-countrywomen have played. The women of France seem to have
accomplished to admiration what we in England are only beginning to understand. Quietly, almost
automatically, Frenchwomen have slipped into the men's vacant places and carried on the work
of the country. The industry and resourcefulness of the average Frenchwoman are proverbial,
but the author ascribes the peculiar readiness they have displayed at the present time largely
to compulsory military service, as well as to the Frenchman's habit of discussing his work
with his wife and daughters and awakening their interest in it. Thus, when the local paperhanger
was called to the colours his wife repapered the author's country cottage "quite as efficiently";
and thrilling indeed is the account of the gallantry of one intrepid woman who, when the German
Staff entered an important town (from which the Mayor and Municipal Council had fled), resisted
their demand for a large war ransom. Widow of a former Senator of the Department, she "alone
remained, the sole representative of officialdom." "We want to see the Mayor," said the invaders.
"Le Maire? C'est moi!" was the reply. "Then kindly direct us to some members of the Municipal
Council." "Le Conseil Municipal? C'est moi!" We are told that the Teutonic officials were amazed--and
no wonder. But in the end they were forced to go without the money, and the town and its defender
were left in peace. I commend A Frenchwoman's Notes on the War as a most inspiriting record
of what women can do; though the author magnanimously admits that, "for the callings of the
coal-heaver and the furniture-remover," men, even in France, are still indispensable.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

For novels which require a guide to conduct me through them I confess weariness, but in That
Woman from Java (HURST AND BLACKETT) I found the glossary less fatiguing hero. Things were
going badly for Mrs. Hamilton in the divorce case, "Hamilton v. Hamilton, co-respondent King,"
when the judge broke down. That might have happened to any judge, but, although I can follow
the judicial Bruce quite easily to his sick bed, I cannot believe that he would, on his recovery,
have refrained from finding out how the case ended. Apparently being in love with Mrs. Hamilton,
he did not dare to enquire what happened; but a more plausible explanation of his unenterprising
conduct seems to be that he had only to act like an ordinary man and the rather sandy foundations
on which E. HARDINGHAM QUINN's story are built would have collapsed. Here in fact we have a
tale in which the main complications are caused by the characters behaving with a total lack
of what the Americans call horse-sense. But if you can get by this difficulty you will admire,
as I did, the reticence with which the troubles of the much misunderstood heroine are told,
and also admit that the colour of Java has been vividly conveyed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Save the Mark!

Germany's last word:--

    "Kriegsvermoegenszuwachssteuergesetz."

And a very pretty word too. But it does not surprise us to learn from the German Press that
the Legislature will probably have to devote at least three weeks to the discussion of the
subject which it defines.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a book catalogue:--

    "The Royal Marriage Market of Europe. By Princess Radziwill.
    With eight half-ton illustrations."

It is thought that these must be portraits of German princesses taken before the War had deprived
them of their usual supply of butter.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "ARTIST, Academy Exhibitor, paints gentlemen's residences."

Sunday Paper.

Another result, no doubt, of the exigencies of War, but rather hard on the ordinary house-decorator.