The Bill, however, did get through committee at last.  The Government contrived by determined
resistance and untiring patience to get their scheme of reform out of committee in substantially
the condition they wished it to have.  Then came the third reading.  It was confidently assumed
on both sides of the House that there would be a long debate on the motion that the Bill be
now read a third time.  In the House of Commons, however, it often happens that the assumption
of a forthcoming debate as a certainty is itself the one cause which prevents the debates from
being long.  So it happened on this important occasion. Every Tory took it for granted that
his brother Tories would keep the debate going for an indefinite time, and in this fond faith
a good many Tories felt themselves in no hurry to get to the House, and were willing to leave
the first hour or two at the disposal of their colleagues.  When the sitting began, and, indeed,
when the motion for the third reading came on, there were comparatively few Tories in the House,
and the great leaders of Opposition were not present.  There was confusion in the ranks of
the Tories, and the crowded benches of the Reformers thundered with clamorous shouts of "Divide!
Divide!"  Now, it takes a very heroic orator indeed to continue declaiming for a long time
when a great majority of the members present are bellowing at him and are drowning, by their
united voices, the sounds of the words which he is trying to articulate.  The members of Opposition
in the House found this fact brought home to them, and, being further bewildered by the fortuitous
absence of their leaders, soon gave up the struggle, and the debate collapsed, and the third
reading was carried by a large majority before Sir Robert Peel, Sir Charles Wetherell, and
others came in leisurely fashion into the House, filled with the assumption that there would
be ample opportunity for them to carry on the debate.  Even yet, however, all was not over.
According to the procedure of the House, it was not enough that the motion for the third reading
of the {167} Bill should be carried.  It was still necessary to propose the motion that the
Bill do now pass.  The moment this motion was proposed the torrent of opposition, frozen up
for a too-short interval, began to flow again in full volume.  The nature of the formal motion
gave opportunity for renewed attacks on the whole purpose of the Bill, and all the old, familiar,
outworn arguments were repeated by orator after orator from the Tory benches.  But this, too,
had to come to an end. The House was no longer in committee, and each member could only speak
once on this final motion.  Of course, there could be motions for adjournment, and on each
such motion, put as an amendment, there would be opportunity for a fresh debate; but the leaders
of the Opposition were beginning to see that there was nothing of much account to be done any
longer in the House of Commons, and that their hopes of resisting the progress of reform must
turn to the House of Lords.  So the Reform Bill passed at last through the House of Commons,
and then all over the country was raised the cry, "What will the Lords do with it?"

Soon the temper of the more advanced Reformers throughout the country began to change its tone,
and the question eagerly put was not so often what will the Lords do with the Bill? but what
shall we do with the House of Lords?  At every great popular meeting held throughout the constituencies
an outcry was raised against the House of Lords as a part of the constitutional system, and
no speaker was more welcome on a public platform than the orator who called for the abolition
of the hereditary principle in the formation of legislators.  One might have thought that the
agitation which broke out all over the country, and the manner in which almost all Reformers
seemed to have taken it for granted that the hereditary Chamber must be the enemy of all reform,
might have put the peers on their guard and taught them the unwisdom of accepting the imputation
against them, and thus proving that they had no sympathy with the cause of the people.  But
the great majority of the Tory peers of that day had not yet risen to the idea that there could
be any {168} wisdom in any demand made by men who had no university education, who had not
what was then described as a stake in the country.  The voice of the people was simply regarded
as the voice of the rabble, and the Tory peers had no notion of allowing themselves to be guided
by any appeal coming from such a quarter.

[Sidenote: 1831--The Reform Bill in the Lords]

The agitation of which we are speaking had been going on during the long reign of obstruction
in the Commons, and there was no time lost by the Government between the passing of the Bill
in the representative Chamber and its introduction in the House of Lords.  On the evening of
the day when the Bill was passed by the Commons, September 23, 1831, it was formally brought
into the House of Lords and read a first time.  It has already been explained that, according
to Parliamentary usage, the first reading of any Bill is taken in the House of Lords as a matter
of right and without a division.  The second reading of the Bill was taken on October 3.  Lord
Grey, who had charge of the measure in that House, delivered one of the most impressive and
commanding speeches which had ever come from his eloquent lips, not merely in recommendation
of the measure itself, but in solemn warning to the peers in general, and to the bishops and
archbishops in particular, to pause and consider carefully all the possible consequences before
committing themselves to the rejection of a demand which was made by the vast majority of the
English people.

Lord Grey was a noble illustration of what may be described as the stately order of Parliamentary
eloquence.  He had not the fire and the passion of Fox; he had not the thrilling genius of
Pitt; and, of course, his style of speech had none of the passionate and sometimes the extravagant
declamation of which Brougham was a leading master.  He had a dignified presence, a calm, clear,
and penetrating voice, a style that was always exquisitely finished and nobly adapted to its
purpose. It would not be too much to say for Earl Grey that he might have been the ideal orator
for an ideal House of Lords, if we assume the ideal House of Lords to be an assembly in which
appeal {169} was always made to high principle, to reason, and to justice, not to passion,
to prejudice, or to party.  But the House of Lords just then was not in a mood to be swayed
greatly by argument or by eloquence.  Lord Wharncliffe moved an amendment to the effect that
the Bill be read a second time this day six months.  This, at least, was the shape that the
motion took after some discussion, because Lord Wharncliffe, in the first instance, had concluded
his speech against the second reading by the blunt motion that the Bill be rejected; and it
was only when it had been pressed upon his attention that such a method of disposing of the
measure would be a downright insult to the Commons that he consented to modify his proposal
into the formal and familiar amendment that the Bill be read a second time this day six months.
The effect would be just the same in either case, for no Ministry would think of retaining
office if the discussion of its most important measure were postponed in the House of Lords
for a period of six months.  During the debate which followed, the Duke of Wellington spoke
strongly against the Bill.  On the morning of October 8 the division was taken.  There were
199 votes for the amendment and 158 against it, or, in other words, for the second reading
of the Bill. The second reading was therefore rejected by a majority of 41.  The whole work
of legislation during all the previous part of the year had thus been reduced to nothing, and
the House of Lords had shown what it would do with the Bill by contemptuously rejecting it,
and thus bidding defiance to the demand unquestionably made by the vast majority of the people
of England, Scotland, and Ireland.

Parliament was at once prorogued, and the members who were in favor of reform hurried off to
address great meetings of their constituents, and to denounce the action of the House of Lords.
Popular enthusiasm was aroused {170} more than ever in favor of the Reform Bill, and popular
passion was stirred in many places to positive fury against the principal opponents of the
Bill.  In London several public men who were conspicuous for their opposition to the Bill were
surrounded in their carriages as they drove through the streets by suddenly collected crowds,
who hooted and hissed them, and would have gone much further than hooting and hissing in their
way of expressing condemnation but for the energetic intervention of the newly created police
force.  In some of the provincial towns, and here and there throughout the country, the most
serious riots broke out.  In Derby there were disturbances which lasted for several days, and
consisted of attacks on unpopular persons and of fierce fights with the police.  Nottingham
was the centre of rioting even more serious.  Nottingham Castle, the seat of the Duke of Newcastle,
was attacked by a furious mob and actually burned to the ground.  In the immediate neighborhood
was the estate of Mr. Musters, which was invaded by an excited mob.  The dwelling-house was
set on fire, and, although the conflagration was not allowed to spread far, yet it ended in
a tragedy which must always have a peculiar interest for the lovers of poetry and romance.
The wife of Mr. Musters was the Mary Chaworth made famous by Lord Byron in his poem of the
"Dream," and other poems as well--the Mary Chaworth who was his first love, and whom, at one
time, he believed destined to be his last love also.  Mary Chaworth does not seem to have taken
the poet's adoration very seriously--at all events, she married Mr. Musters, a country gentleman
of good position.  Mrs. Musters was in her house on the night when it was attacked by the mob,
and when the fire broke out she fled into the open park and sought shelter there among the
trees.  The mob was dispersed and Mrs. Musters, after a while, was able to return to her home;
but she was in somewhat delicate health, the exposure to the cold night air of winter proved
too much for her, and she became one of the most innocent victims to the popular passion aroused
by the opposition to the Reform Bill.

{171}

[Sidenote: 1831--The Reform riots]

Bristol was the scene of the most formidable riots during all that period of disturbance. 
Sir Charles Wetherell, who had made himself conspicuous as an opponent of reform, was the Recorder
as well as the representative of Bristol, and his return to the city after the Lords had thrown
out the Bill became the signal for an outbreak of popular fury.  Houses were wrecked in various
parts of the city; street fights took place between the mob and the military, day after day;
the Mansion House, where Sir Charles Wetherell was supposed to have taken refuge, was besieged,
attacked, and almost demolished, and Sir Charles Wetherell himself was rescued, more than once,
with the utmost difficulty from hostile crowds who seemed thirsting for his blood.  All these
riots were atoned for dearly soon after by some who had taken part in them.  The stroke of
the law was heavy and sharp in those days, and many of the rioters in Derby, Nottingham, and
Bristol, and other places expiated on the scaffold their offences against peace and order.
Some of the cathedral cities became scenes of especial disturbance because of the part so many
of the prelates who were members of the House of Lords had taken against the Reform Bill. 
The direct appeal which Earl Grey had made to the archbishops and bishops in the House of Lords
to think long and well before opposing the Reform Bill was delivered with the highest and sincerest
motive, with the desire that the Church should keep itself in harmony with the people; but
the mere fact that the appeal was made, and made in vain, seems to have aroused in many parts
of the country, and especially in the cathedral cities, a stronger conviction than ever that
the prelates were, for the most part, the enemies of popular rights.  Then, again, there was
a more or less general impression that the King himself, in his heart, was not in favor of
reform and would be glad to get rid of it if he could.  Daniel O'Connell, addressing a great
popular meeting at Charing Cross in London, pointed with his outstretched right arm towards
Whitehall, and awakened a tremendous outburst of applause from the vast crowd by telling them
that it was there Charles I. had lost his head {172} because he had submitted to the dictation
of his foreign wife.  There was a popular belief at the time that Queen Adelaide, the wife
of King William, cherished a strong hatred against reform such as Lord Grey and his colleagues
were pressing on, and that she was secretly influencing the mind of her husband her own way,
and so it was that O'Connell's allusion got home to the feelings and the passions of the multitude
who listened to his words.  Never, in the nineteenth century, had England gone through such
a period of internal storm.  All over the Continent observers were beginning to ask themselves
whether the monarchy in England was not on the verge of such a crisis as had just overtaken
the monarchy in France.

[Sidenote: 1832--The third Reform Bill]

Lord Grey and his ministers still, however, held firmly to their purpose, and the King, much
as he may have disliked the whole reform business, and gladly as he would have got rid of it,
if it were to be got rid of by any possible means, had still wit enough to see that if he were
to give his support to the House of Lords something even more than the House of Lords might
be in danger.  Parliament was therefore called together again in December, and the Royal Speech
from the Throne commended to both Houses the urgent necessity of passing into law as quickly
as possible the ministerial measure of reform.  Lord John Russell brought in his third Reform
Bill for England and Wales, a Bill that was, in purpose and in substance, much the same as
the two measures that had preceded it, and this third Reform Bill passed by slow degrees through
its several stages in the House of Commons.  Then again came up the portentous question, "What
will the Lords do with it?"  There could not be the least doubt in the mind of anybody as to
what the majority of the House of Lords would be glad to do with the Bill if they only felt
sure that they could work their will upon it without danger to their own order.  There, however,
the serious difficulty arose.  The more reasonable among the peers did not attempt to disguise
from themselves that another rejection of the Bill might lead to the most serious disturbances,
and even possibly to civil war, and they were not {173} prepared to indulge their hostility
to reform at so reckless an expense.  The greater number of the Tory peers, however, acted
on the assumption, familiar at all times among certain parties of politicians, that the more
loudly people demanded a reform the more resolutely the reform ought to be withheld from them,
and that, if the people attempted to rise up, the only proper policy was to put the people
down by force.  The opinions and sentiments of the less headlong among the Conservative peers
had led to the formation of a party, more or less loosely put together, who were called at
that time the "Waverers," just as a political combination of an earlier day obtained the title
of the "Trimmers."  The Waverers were made up of the men who held that their best and most
patriotic policy was to regard each portion of the Bill brought before them on its own merits,
and not to resist out of hand any proposition which seemed harmless in itself simply because
it formed part of the whole odious policy of reform. King William is believed, at one time,
to have set hopes on the efforts of the Waverers, and to have cherished a gladsome belief that
they might get him out of his difficulties about the Reform Bill; as indeed it will be seen
they did in the end, though not quite in the way which he would have desired.

Lord Grey introduced the third Reform Bill on March 27, 1832.  The first reading passed, as
a matter of course, but when the division on the motion for the second reading came on on April
14, there was only a majority of 9 votes for the Bill: 184 peers voted for it and 175 against
it.  Of course Lord Grey and his colleagues saw, at once, that unless the conditions were to
be completely altered there would be no chance whatever in the House of Lords for a measure
of reform which had passed its second reading by a majority of only 9.  The moment the Bill
got into committee there would be endless opportunities afforded for its mutilation, and if
it were to get through the House at all, it would be only in such a form as to render it wholly
useless for the objects which its promoters desired it to accomplish.  This dismal conviction
was very speedily {174} verified.  When the Bill got into committee, Lord Lyndhurst moved an
amendment to the effect that the question of enfranchisement should precede that of disfranchisement.
Now this proposal was not in itself one necessarily hostile to the principle of the Bill. 
It is quite easy to understand that a sincere friend to reform might have, under certain conditions,
adopted the views that Lord Lyndhurst professed to advocate.  But the Ministry knew very well
that the adoption of such a proposal would mean simply that the whole conduct of the measure
was to be taken out of their hands and put into unfriendly hands--in other words, that it would
be utterly futile to go any further with the measure if the hostile majority were thus allowed
to deal with it according to their own designs and their own class interest.

[Sidenote: 1832--The Peers and the third Reform Bill]

