It is said that this Sostrasius didn't want his own name to be forgotten, so he carved it deep
in the stone of the tower and covered it over with plaster whereon he inscribed by royal command:

"King Ptolemy to the Gods, the Saviours, for the benefit of sailors."

Josephus tells us that the light, kept burning on the top of this Pharos, as it was called,
probably from a word that signifies fire, was visible for forty miles at sea. For a thousand
years it shone constantly until the Alexandrian Wonder likewise fell a prey to time and the
Saracens.

The words Pharos-Phâre, Faro, etc., have been adopted into more than one European language
to express Light-house or sea-light.

Some persons suppose that great mirrors must have been used to direct the light on the Pharos
and keep it from being lost, but it is most probable that no more effective means of illumination
than a common fire was employed.

The only other Light-houses of antiquity of which any record has been preserved are the Tower
of Conira in Spain, which Humboldt mentions as the Iron Tower, and a magnificent stone Light-house
at Capio, near the mouth of the Guadalquiver, that Strabo tells us about, on a rock nearly
surrounded by sea.

Then tradition points out Cesar's Altar at Dover, the Tour d' Ordre at Boulogne, a Roman Pharos
at Norfolk, and, in early British history, St. Edmund's Chapel at the same place, as having
been originally intended for sea-lights.

Though we are far ahead of our forefathers in our scientific apparatus for illuminating Light-houses,
we have never equalled them in magnificence of architecture; for, in point of grandeur, the
Tour de Corduan at the mouth of the River Garonne, in France, is probably the noblest edifice
of the kind in the world, and it is nearly three hundred years since it was completed under
Henry IV., having been twenty-six years in building.

All these centuries it has stood strong on its great reef, and has served to guide the shipping
of Bordeau and the Languedoc Canal, and all that part of the Bay of Biscay; and it promises,
in all human probability, to show its steadfast light for centuries to come.

Corduan is stoutly built in four stories, each of a different order of architecture, highly
ornamented and adorned with the busts of the Kings of France, and of the heathen divinities.
The first story contains the store-rooms, the second, the so-called King's apartments, the
third a chapel, and the fourth the dome or lower lantern. The tower completed is 197 feet high.

When this splendid structure was completed no better method for illuminating was known than
by burning billets of oak wood in a chauffer in the upper lantern; and it was considered a
great matter when a rude reflector in the form of an inverted cone was suspended above the
flame to prevent the light from escaping upward. It is not known, in fact, that any more effective
mode of lighting was employed until 1760, not much more than one hundred years ago; and then
the radiance was not especially brilliant as it would seem to us. At that time Smeaton the
engineer began to use wax candles at the Eddystone Light-house, which soon degenerated to tallow
dips, probably on account of the expense, and they must have given the keeper abundance of
occupation in the way of snuffing and replenishing.

In 1789 a French scientist, M. Lenoir, made an epoch in the history of Light-houses, and in
the progress of civilization as well, when he introduced an improvement in the way of lighting
up the Tour de Corduan; for, of course, the comparative safety in coast navigation attained
to by means of our modern Light-house system is of the first consequence in commerce and international
communication, which means the spread of science, enlightenment and religion throughout the
world. M. Lenoir placed Argand lamps with parabolic mirrors or reflectors in the lantern, which
is, as it appears, a glass room on the summit of the tower entered by a trap-door at the head
of a spiral staircase. Such a great change having been brought about, men of science have not
rested content, but have gone on making one advance after another. In 1820 the famous diaptric
instruments of Mr. Fresnel were placed in Corduan on trial, and proved such a grand success
that, gradually, they have been universally adopted. The wonderful lens which you saw at the
Centennial belongs to a diaptric refracting light of the first order, and oil lamps constructed
on the Fresnel principle, and, placed with lenses of different orders, according to the Light-house
they are used for, serve an admirable purpose. Lard is found to be the best illuminator, as
a general thing, for the light it casts through lenses of the first order reaches as far out
to sea as it is possible for any light to be seen on account of the convexity of the earth.
Experiment has proved it safer than mineral oil, and it is cheaper than gas, which however
is occasionally used near a city whence it can easily be obtained. Only in some few special
instances electric light, the most intense procurable, is employed.

The Centennial birth-day gift of the citizens of France to the American Republic is a colossal
brazen statue of Liberty, which is to be a Pharos to light the shipping of the world into New
York harbor. It will stand on Bedloe's Island, and from the torch in its uplifted hand will
flash a calcium light. Only the hand and arm were finished in time to be sent to the Exposition;
but these were on so gigantic a scale that a man standing in the little gallery which ringed
the thumb holding the torch seemed like an ant or a fly creeping along at that height.

Sir Walter Scott--dear Sir Walter, whose "Tales of a Grandfather" and Scottish stories and
poems were so delightfully familiar to the boys and girls of the last generation, left a charming
little diary of a voyage he made in the summer of 1814, on board a Light-house yacht, in company
with the Commissioners of Northern Lights,--who have charge of the Light-houses in Scotland,
as the Elder Brethren of Trinity House have of those in England,--their Surveyor-Viceroy, the
engineer Stevenson, and a few other gentlemen.

The first Light-house they visited was an old tower, like a "border keep," still illuminated
by a grate fire on top. The commissioners think of substituting an oil revolving-light; but
Sir Walter wonders if the grate couldn't be made to revolve!

Next they came to Bell Rock, which, in olden times, was the terror of sailors feeling their
way in and out of the islands and rocks and shoals of the beautiful, perilous coast of Scotland.
Inch-cape Rock, as it was then called, had shipwrecked many a helpless crew before the Abbot
of Aberbrathock, fifteen miles off, out of pity caused a float to be fixed on the rock, with
a bell attached which, swinging by the motion of the waves, warned seamen of the danger.

Many years later, when Abbot and Monastery bells had all become things of the past, a humane
naval officer set up two beacons on Bell Rock by subscription; but they were soon destroyed
by the fury of the elements.

At last in 1802, people began to realize the danger of this terrible reef in the highway of
navigation, and the Commissioners appointed Mr. Robert Stevenson to erect a Light-house on
this point.

It was a perilous undertaking, and once the engineer and his workmen made a very narrow escape
from drowning; but it was successfully accomplished by the brave and skilful Stevenson. Sir
Walter thus describes this famous beacon.

"Its dimensions are well known; but no description can give the idea of this slight, solitary,
round tower, trembling amid the billows, and fifteen miles from Arbraeth (Aberbrathock), the
nearest shore. The fitting up within is not only handsome, but elegant. All work of wood (almost)
is wainscot; all hammer-work brass; in short, exquisitely fitted up. You enter by a ladder
of rope, with wooden steps, about thirty feet from the bottom where the mason-work ceases to
be solid, and admits of round apartments. The lowest is a storehouse for the people's provisions,
water, etc.; above that, a storehouse for the lights, oil, etc.; then the kitchen of the people,
three in number; then their sleeping chamber; then the saloon or parlor, a neat little room;
above all the Light-house; all communicating by oaken ladders with brass rails, most handsomely
and conveniently executed."

In the course of the voyage Mr. Stevenson determined that his "constituents" should visit a
reef of rocks called Skerry Vhor (Skerrymore), where he thought it would be essential to have
a Light-house. Sir Walter's description of this visit is quite amusing and perhaps you would
like to read it. The wind had blown squally all night, and in consequence everything and everybody
were pitched and tossed about at a great rate, on board the little vessel. Nobody relished
the attempt to land under these circumstances on this wild ridge.

"Quiet perseverance on the part of Mr. Stevenson, and great kicking, bouncing, and squabbling
upon that of the Yacht, which seems to like the idea of Skerry Vhor as little as the Commissioners.
At length, by dint of exertion, comes in sight this long ridge of rocks (chiefly under water)
on which the tide breaks in a most tremendous style. There appear a few low, broad rocks at
one end of the reef, which is about a mile in length. These are never entirely under water
though the surf dashes over them. Pull through a very heavy swell with great difficulty, and
approach a tremendous surf dashing over black pointed rocks--contrive to land well wetted.
We took possession of the rock in the name of the Commissioners, and generously bestowed our
own great names on its crags and creeks. The rock was carefully measured by Mr. S. It will
be a most desolate position for a Light-house--the Bell Rock and Eddystone a joke to it, for
the nearest land is the wild island of Tyree, at fourteen miles distance. So much for the Skerry
Vhor."

As might have been expected, the Commissioners were discouraged at the aspect of affairs and
delayed the work from year to year, but at last, in 1834, the Board placed this serious undertaking
in the hands of Mr. Alan Stevenson.

Mr. Stevenson has left us a thrilling account of his noble work on Skerrymore Rocks, than which
no worthier monument was ever left behind to the memory of a gifted and conscientious man.

In the first place he had to build barracks for his workmen on the Isles of Tyree and Mull,
and then to begin the foundation of the tower on the only one of the gneiss rocks of the reef
which was broad enough for the purpose, and this is but barely so, for at high water little
remains around the tower's base but a narrow band of a few feet of rugged rocks, washed into
gullies by the sea, which plays through them almost incessantly.

Everything had to be thought of and provided for beforehand; even so small a matter as the
want of a little clay for tamping holes might have stopped the work for a time.

Piers were built at Mull where the granite was quarried, and all sorts of conveniences and
contrivances for the vessels and tug in use.

The poor workmen suffered dreadfully from seasickness when compelled to live on their vessel,
so they erected a temporary wooden barrack on the rock, but it was completely swept away in
a November gale, destroying the work of a season in a single night. The dauntless men went
to work again, however, and built another shelter which stood so successfully that it was finally
taken down several years after the Light-house was completed.

Alan Stevenson tells us of their life in this wave-washed eyrie, where he was perched forty
feet above the sea-beaten rock with a goodly company of thirty men, where often for many a
weary night and day they were kept prisoners by the weather, anxiously looking for supplies
from the shore. At such times they were generally obliged to stay in bed, where alone they
found an effectual shelter from the wind and spray which searched every cranny in their walls.
More than once the fearfulness of the storm drove the more timid from their frail abode, which
the sea threatened to overwhelm, out on the bare rock where the roofless wall of the Light-house
offered a safer defence against the perils of the wind and waves.

Innumerable were the delays and disappointments which tried the courage and faith of Stevenson
and his brave band. It was a good lesson in the school of patience, and they learned to trust
in something stronger than an arm of flesh. More than once their cranes and materials were
swept away by the waves, and the workmen left, desponding and idle. They incurred daily risks
in landing and in blasting the splintery gneiss, and in the falling of heavy bodies in the
narrow space to which they were confined. For all, they met with no loss of life or limb, and
maintained good health in spite of being obliged to live on salt provisions for six summers.

But the hardships and responsibilities by no means end with the building of the Light-house;
the keeper who has it in charge holds a most important position, for upon the skill of his
hands in the management of the delicate costly lenses and machinery, the clearness of his head,
and the courage of his heart, as well as his honesty and fidelity, depends, even more than
upon the captain of a vessel, the safety of many precious lives and millions of property; so
it is of the first importance that he be intelligent, efficient and trustworthy.

A Light which has been visible for years cannot be suffered to be extinct for one hour without
endangering a vessel's safety. The failure to illuminate at the proper time might prove fatal
to the confiding mariner.

In England it is a situation for life unless the holder prove unworthy, with a pension if superannuated;
but in our own country the appointments are in a measure political, and consequently liable
to be temporary. This circumstance is deplored by the Board which sometimes in this way loses
valuable servants after they have gained a skill and experience which only comes with time;
and raw, untried hands have to be placed in positions of trust. It is hoped that some change
will soon be brought about in this matter.

A year or more ago a gentleman, who holds an important position in the office of the Light-house
Board and is specially interested in the comfort and welfare of the keepers, came in the course
of a tour he was making on one of the Supply Ships, which carry half-yearly stores to the different
posts, to a very isolated Light-house off the Florida coast, twenty miles from any human habitation
and sixteen from terra firma. Just before the arrival of the vessel a little child of the keeper
had died, and was about to be buried in the sea without so much as a word of prayer being said
over it. Mr. ---- was shocked to find that these poor people in their isolation seemed to have
no idea of religion, and that there was not a book of any kind at the station. The parents
made no objection to his reading the burial service over the poor baby, out of a little prayer-book
which he happened to have in his pocket, and he went away determined to do his part towards
making good the deficiency he had discovered; for on investigation it was found that very many
Light-houses were quite as much cut off from books as the one he had visited, and one instance
had occurred of a poor fellow who had actually gone crazy, from sheer mental starvation, in
his loneliness.

