In any case each fresh habit taking root in the organism forms a little mainspring or instinct
of its own, like a parasite; so that an elaborate mechanism is gradually developed, where each
lever and spring holds the other down, and all hold the mainspring down together, allowing
it to unwind itself only very gradually, and meantime keeping the whole clock ticking and revolving,
and causing the smooth outer face which it turns to the world, so clean and innocent, to mark
the time of day amiably for the passer-by. But there is a terribly complicated labour going
on beneath, propelled with difficulty, and balanced precariously, with much secret friction
and failure. No wonder that the engine often gets visibly out of order, or stops short: the
marvel is that it ever manages to go at all. Nor is it satisfied with simply revolving and,
when at last dismounted, starting afresh in the person of some seed it has dropped, a portion
of its substance with all its concentrated instincts wound up tightly within it, and eager
to repeat the ancestral experiment; all this growth is not merely material and vain. Each clock
in revolving strikes the hour, even the quarters, and often with lovely chimes. These chimes
we call perceptions, feelings, purposes, and dreams; and it is because we are taken up entirely
with this mental music, and perhaps think that it sounds of itself and needs no music-box to
make it, that we find such difficulty in conceiving the nature of our own clocks and are compelled
to describe them only musically, that is, in myths. But the ineptitude of our aesthetic minds
to unravel the nature of mechanism does not deprive these minds of their own clearness and
euphony. Besides sounding their various musical notes, they have the cognitive function of
indicating the hour and catching the echoes of distant events or of maturing inward dispositions.
This information and emotion, added to incidental pleasures in satisfying our various passions,
make up the life of an incarnate spirit. They reconcile it to the external fatality that has
wound up the organism, and is breaking it down; and they rescue this organism and all its works
from the indignity of being a vain complication and a waste of motion.

That the end of life should be death may sound sad: yet what other end can anything have? The
end of an evening party is to go to bed; but its use is to gather congenial people together,
that they may pass the time pleasantly. An invitation to the dance is not rendered ironical
because the dance cannot last for ever; the youngest of us and the most vigorously wound up,
after a few hours, has had enough of sinuous stepping and prancing. The transitoriness of things
is essential to their physical being, and not at all sad in itself; it becomes sad by virtue
of a sentimental illusion, which makes us imagine that they wish to endure, and that their
end is always untimely; but in a healthy nature it is not so. What is truly sad is to have
some impulse frustrated in the midst of its career, and robbed of its chosen object; and what
is painful is to have an organ lacerated or destroyed when it is still vigorous, and not ready
for its natural sleep and dissolution. We must not confuse the itch which our unsatisfied instincts
continue to cause with the pleasure of satisfying and dismissing each of them in turn. Could
they all be satisfied harmoniously we should be satisfied once for all and completely. Then
doing and dying would coincide throughout and be a perfect pleasure.

This same insight is contained in another wise myth which has inspired morality and religion
in India from time immemorial: I mean the doctrine of Karma. We are born, it says, with a heritage,
a character imposed, and a long task assigned, all due to the ignorance which in our past lives
has led us into all sorts of commitments. These obligations we must pay off, relieving the
pure spirit within us from its accumulated burdens, from debts and assets both equally oppressive.
We cannot disentangle ourselves by mere frivolity, nor by suicide: frivolity would only involve
us more deeply in the toils of fate, and suicide would but truncate our misery and leave us
for ever a confessed failure. When life is understood to be a process of redemption, its various
phases are taken up in turn without haste and without undue attachment; their coming and going
have all the keenness of pleasure, the holiness of sacrifice, and the beauty of art. The point
is to have expressed and discharged all that was latent in us; and to this perfect relief various
temperaments and various traditions assign different names, calling it having one's day, or
doing one's duty, or realising one's ideal, or saving one's soul. The task in any case is definite
and imposed on us by nature, whether we recognise it or not; therefore we can make true moral
progress or fall into real errors. Wisdom and genius lie in discerning this prescribed task
and in doing it readily, cleanly, and without distraction. Folly on the contrary imagines that
any scent is worth following, that we have an infinite nature, or no nature in particular,
that life begins without obligations and can do business without capital, and that the will
is vacuously free, instead of being a specific burden and a tight hereditary knot to be unravelled.
Some philosophers without self-knowledge think that the variations and further entanglements
which the future may bring are the manifestation of spirit; but they are, as Freud has indicated,
imposed on living beings by external pressure, and take shape in the realm of matter. It is
only after the organs of spirit are formed mechanically that spirit can exist, and can distinguish
the better from the worse in the fate of those organs, and therefore in its own fate. Spirit
has nothing to do with infinite existence. Infinite existence is something physical and ambiguous;
there is no scale in it and no centre. The depths of the human heart are finite, and they are
dark only to ignorance. Deep and dark as a soul may be when you look down into it from outside,
it is something perfectly natural; and the same understanding that can unearth our suppressed
young passions, and dispel our stubborn bad habits, can show us where our true good lies. Nature
has marked out the path for us beforehand; there are snares in it, but also primroses, and
it leads to peace.

V

THE PRESTIGE OF THE INFINITE

"The more complex the world becomes and the more it rises above the indeterminate, so much
the farther removed it is from God; that is to say, so much the more impious it is." M. Julien
Benda[12] is not led to this startling utterance by any political or sentimental grudge. It
is not the late war, nor the peace of Versailles, nor the parlous state of the arts, nor the
decay of morality and prosperity that disgusts him with our confused world. It is simply overmastering
respect for the infinite. La Trahison des Clercs, or Treason of the Levites, with which he
had previously upbraided the intellectuals of his time, now appears to consist precisely in
coveting a part in this world's inheritance, and forgetting that the inheritance of the Levites
is the Lord: which, being interpreted philosophically, means that a philosopher is bound to
measure all things by the infinite.

This infinite is not rhetorical, as if we spoke of infinite thought or infinite love: it is
physico-mathematical. Nothing but number, M. Benda tells us, seems to him intelligible. Time,
space, volume, and complexity (which appears to the senses as quality) stretch in a series
of units, positions, or degrees, to infinity, as number does: and in such homogeneous series,
infinite in both directions, there will be no fixed point of origin for counting or surveying
the whole and no particular predominant scale. Every position will be essentially identical
with every other; every suggested structure will be collapsible and reversible; and the position
and relations of every unit will be indistinguishable from those of every other. In the infinite,
M. Benda says, the parts have no identity: each number in the scale, as we begin counting from
different points of origin, bears also every other number.

This is no mere mathematical puzzle; the thought has a strange moral eloquence. Seen in their
infinite setting, which we may presume to be their ultimate environment, all things lose their
central position and their dominant emphasis. The contrary of what we first think of them or
of ourselves--for instance that we are alive, while they are dead or unborn--is also true.
Egotism becomes absurd; pride and shame become the vainest of illusions. If then it be repugnant
to reason that the series of numbers, moments, positions, and volumes should be limited--and
the human spirit has a great affinity to the infinite--all specific quality and variety in
things must be superficial and deeply unreal. They are masks in the carnival of phenomena,
to be observed without conviction, and secretly dismissed as ironical by those who have laid
up their treasure in the infinite.

This mathematical dissolution of particulars is reinforced by moral considerations which are
more familiar. Existence--any specific fact asserting itself in any particular place or moment--is
inevitably contingent, arbitrary, gratuitous, and insecure. A sense of insecurity is likely
to be the first wedge by which repentance penetrates into the animal heart. If a man did not
foresee death and fear it, he might never come at all to the unnatural thought of renouncing
life. In fact, he does not often remember death: yet his whole gay world is secretly afraid
of being found out, of being foiled in the systematic bluff by which it lives as if its life
were immortal; and far more than the brave young man fears death in his own person, the whole
life of the world fears to be exorcised by self-knowledge, and lost in air. And with good reason:
because, whether we stop to notice this circumstance or not, every fact, every laborious beloved
achievement of man or of nature, has come to exist against infinite odds. In the dark grab-bag
of Being, this chosen fact was surrounded by innumerable possible variations or contradictions
of it; and each of those possibilities, happening not to be realised here and now, yet possesses
intrinsically exactly the same aptitude or claim to existence. Nor are these claims and aptitudes
merely imaginary and practically contemptible. The flux of existence is continually repenting
of its choices, and giving everything actual the lie, by continually substituting something
else, no less specific and no less nugatory. This world, any world, exists only by an unmerited
privilege. Its glory is offensive to the spirit, like the self-sufficiency of some obstreperous
nobody, who happens to have drawn the big prize in a lottery. "The world", M. Benda writes,
"inspires me with a double sentiment. I feel it to be full of grandeur, because it has succeeded
in asserting itself and coming to exist; and I feel it to be pitiful, when I consider how it
hung on a mere nothing that this particular world should never have existed." And though this
so accidental world, by its manifold beauties and excitements, may arouse our romantic enthusiasm,
it is fundamentally an unholy world. Its creation, he adds in italics, "is something which
reason would wish had never taken place".

For we must not suppose that God, when God is defined as infinite Being, can be the creator
of the world. Such a notion would hopelessly destroy that coherence in thought to which M.
Benda aspires. The infinite cannot be selective; it cannot possess a particular structure (such,
for instance, as the Trinity) nor a particular quality (such as goodness). It cannot exert
power or give direction. Nothing can be responsible for the world except the world itself.
It has created, or is creating, itself perpetually by its own arbitrary act, by a groundless
self-assertion which may be called (somewhat metaphorically) will, or even original sin: the
original sin of existence, particularity, selfishness, or separation from God. Existence, being
absolutely contingent and ungrounded, is perfectly free: and if it ties itself up in its own
habits or laws, and becomes a terrible nightmare to itself by its automatic monotony, that
still is only its own work and, figuratively speaking, its own fault. Nothing save its own
arbitrary and needless pressure keeps it going in that round. This fatality is impressive,
and popular religion has symbolised it in the person of a deity far more often recognised and
worshipped than infinite Being. This popular deity, a symbol for the forces of nature and history,
the patron of human welfare and morality, M. Benda calls the imperial God.

     "It is clear that these two Gods ... have nothing to do with one
     another. The God whom Marshal de Villars, rising in his stirrups
     and pointing his drawn sword heavenwards, thanks on the evening of
     Denain, is one God: quite another is the God within whose bosom the
     author of the Imitation, in a corner of his cell, feels the
     nothingness of all human victories."

It follows from this, if we are coherent, that any "return to God" which ascetic philosophy
may bring about cannot be a social reform, a transition to some better form of natural existence
in a promised land, a renovated earth, or a material or temporal heaven. Nor can the error
of creation be corrected violently by a second arbitrary act, such as suicide, or the annihilation
of the universe by some ultimate general collapse. If such events happen, they still leave
the door open to new creations and fresh errors. But the marvel is (I will return to this point
presently) that the world, in the person of a human individual endowed with reason, may perceive
the error of its ways and correct it ideally, in the sphere of estimation and worship. Such
is the only possible salvation. Reason, in order to save us, and we, in order to be saved,
must both subsist: we must both be incidents in the existing world. We may then, by the operation
of reason in us, recover our allegiance to the infinite, for we are bone of its bone and flesh
of its flesh: and by our secret sympathy with it we may rescind every particular claim and
dismiss silently every particular form of being, as something unreal and unholy.

An even more cogent reason why M. Benda's God cannot have been the creator of the world is
that avowedly this God has never existed. We are expressly warned that "if God is infinite
Being he excludes existence, in so far as to exist means to be distinct. In the sense which
everybody attaches to the word existence, God, as I conceive him, does not exist". Of course,
in the mind of a lover of the infinite, this fact is not derogatory to God, but derogatory
to existence. The infinite remains the first and the ultimate term in thought, the fundamental
dimension common to all things, however otherwise they may be qualified; it remains the eternal
background against which they all are defined and into which they soon disappear. Evidently,
in this divine--because indestructible and necessary--dimension, Being is incapable of making
choices, adopting paths of evolution, or exercising power; it knows nothing of phenomena; it
is not their cause nor their sanction. It is incapable of love, wrath, or any other passion.
"I will add", writes M. Benda, "something else which theories of an impersonal deity have less
often pointed out. Since infinity is incompatible with personal being, God is incapable of
morality." Thus mere intuition and analysis of the infinite, since this infinite is itself
passive and indifferent, may prove a subtle antidote to passion, to folly, and even to life.

I think M. Benda succeeds admirably in the purpose announced in his title of rendering his
discourse coherent. If once we accept his definitions, his corollaries follow. Clearly and
bravely he disengages his idea of infinity from other properties usually assigned to the deity,
such as power, omniscience, goodness, and tutelary functions in respect to life, or to some
special human society. But coherence is not completeness, nor even a reasonable measure of
descriptive truth; and certain considerations are omitted from M. Benda's view which are of
such moment that, if they were included, they might transform the whole issue. Perhaps the
chief of these omissions is that of an organ for thought. M. Benda throughout is engaged simply
in clarifying his own ideas, and repeatedly disclaims any ulterior pretensions. He finds in
the panorama of his thoughts an idea of infinite Being, or God, and proceeds to study the relation
of that conception to all others. It is a task of critical analysis and religious confession:
and nothing could be more legitimate and, to some of us, more interesting. But whence these
various ideas, and whence the spell which the idea of infinite Being in particular casts over
the meditative mind? Unless we can view these movements of thought in their natural setting
and order of genesis, we shall be in danger of turning autobiography into cosmology and inwardness
into folly.

One of the most notable points in M. Benda's analysis is his insistence on the leap involved
in passing from infinite Being to any particular fact or system of facts; and again the leap
involved in passing, when the converted spirit "returns to God", from specific animal interests--no
matter how generous, social, or altruistic these interests may be--to absolute renunciation
and sympathy with the absolute. "That a will to return to God should arise in the phenomenal
world seems to be a miracle no less wonderful (though it be less wondered at) than that the
world should arise in the bosom of God." "Love of man, charity, humanitarianism are nothing
but the selfishness of the race, by which each animal species assures its specific existence."
"To surrender one's individuality for the benefit of a larger self is something quite different
from disinterestedness; it is the exact opposite." And certainly, if we regarded infinite Being
as a cosmological medium--say, empty space and time--there would be a miraculous break, an
unaccountable new beginning, if that glassy expanse was suddenly wrinkled by something called
energy. But in fact there need never have been such a leap, or such a miracle, because there
could never have been such a transition. Infinite Being is not a material vacuum "in the bosom"
of which a world might arise. It is a Platonic idea--though Plato never entertained it--an
essence, non-existent and immutable, not in the same field of reality at all as a world of
moving and colliding things. Such an essence is not conceivably the seat of the variations
that enliven the world. It is only in thought that we may pass from infinite Being to an existing
universe; and when we turn from one to the other, and say that now energy has emerged from
the bosom of God, we are turning over a new leaf, or rather picking up an entirely different
volume. The natural world is composed of objects and events which theory may regard as transformations
of a hypothetical energy; an energy which M. Benda--who when he comes down to the physical
world is a good materialist--conceives to have condensed and distributed itself into matter,
which in turn composed organisms and ultimately generated consciousness and reason. But in
whatever manner the natural world may have evolved, it is found and posited by us in perception
and action, not, like infinite Being, defined in thought. This contrast is ontological, and
excludes any derivation of the one object from the other. M. Benda himself tells us so; and
we may wonder why he introduced infinite Being at all into his description of the world. The
reason doubtless is that he was not engaged in describing the world, except by the way, but
rather in classifying and clarifying his ideas in view of determining his moral allegiance.
And he arranged his terms, whether ideal or materials, in a single series, because they were
alike present to his intuition, and he was concerned to arrange them in a hierarchy, according
to their moral dignity.

Not only is infinite Being an incongruous and obstructive term to describe the substance of
the world (which, if it subtends the changes in the world and causes them, must evidently change
with them), but even mathematical space and time, in their ideal infinity, may be very far
from describing truly the medium and groundwork of the universe. That is a question for investigation
and hypothesis, not for intuition. But in the life of intuition, when that life takes a mathematical
turn, empty space and time and their definable structure may be important themes; while, when
the same life becomes a discipline of the affections, we see by this latest example, as well
as by many a renowned predecessor of M. Benda, that infinite Being may dominate the scene.

Nor is this eventual dominance so foreign to the natural mind, or such a miraculous conversion,
as it might seem. Here, too, there is no derivation of object from object, but an alternative
for the mind. As M. Benda points out, natural interests and sympathies may expand indefinitely,
so as to embrace a family, a nation, or the whole animate universe; we might even be chiefly
occupied with liberal pursuits, such as science or music; the more we laboured at these things
and delighted in them, the less ready should we be for renunciation and detachment. Must conversion
then descend upon us from heaven like a thunderbolt? Far from it. We need not look for the
principle of spiritual life in the distance: we have it at home from the beginning. Even the
idea of infinite Being, though unnamed, is probably familiar. Perhaps in the biography of the
human race, or of each budding mind, the infinite or indeterminate may have been the primary
datum. On that homogeneous sensuous background, blank at first but secretly plastic, a spot
here and a movement there may gradually have become discernible, until the whole picture of
nature and history had shaped itself as we see it. A certain sense of that primitive datum,
the infinite or indeterminate, may always remain as it were the outstretched canvas on which
every picture is painted. And when the pictures vanish, as in deep sleep, the ancient simplicity
and quietness may be actually recovered, in a conscious union with Brahma. So sensuous, so
intimate, so unsophisticated the "return to God" may be for the spirit, without excluding the
other avenues, intellectual and ascetic, by which this return may be effected in waking life,
though then not so much in act as in intent only and allegiance.

I confess that formerly I had some difficulty in sharing the supreme respect for infinite Being
which animates so many saints: it seemed to me the dazed, the empty, the deluded side of spirituality.
Why rest in an object which can be redeemed from blank negation only by a blank intensity?
But time has taught me not to despise any form of vital imagination, any discipline which may
achieve perfection after any kind. Intuition is a broadly based activity; it engages elaborate
organs and sums up and synthesises accumulated impressions. It may therefore easily pour the
riches of its ancestry into the image or the sentiment which it evokes, poor as this sentiment
or image might seem if expressed in words. In rapt or ecstatic moments, the vital momentum,
often the moral escape, is everything, and the achievement, apart from that blessed relief,
little or nothing. Infinite Being may profit in this way by offering a contrast to infinite
annoyance. Moreover, in my own way, I have discerned in pure Being the involution of all forms.
As felt, pure Being may be indeterminate, but as conceived reflectively it includes all determinations:
so that when deployed into the realm of essence, infinite or indeterminate Being truly contains
entertainment for all eternity.

M. Benda feels this pregnancy of the infinite on the mathematical side; but he hardly notices
the fact, proclaimed so gloriously by Spinoza, that the infinity of extension is only one of
an infinity of infinites. There is an aesthetic infinite, or many aesthetic infinites, composed
of all the forms which nature or imagination might exhibit; and where imagination fails, there
are infinite remainders of the unimagined. The version which M. Benda gives us of infinite
Being, limited to the mathematical dimension, is therefore unnecessarily cold and stark. His
one infinity is monochrome, whereas the total infinity of essence, in which an infinity of
outlines is only one item, is infinitely many-coloured. Phenomena therefore fall, in their
essential variety, within and not without infinite Being: so that in "returning to God" we
might take the whole world with us, not indeed in its blind movement and piecemeal illumination,
as events occur, but in an after-image and panoramic portrait, as events are gathered together
in the realm of truth.

On the whole I think M. Benda's two Gods are less unfriendly to one another than his aggrieved
tone might suggest. This pregnant little book ends on a tragic note.

     "Hitherto human self-assertion in the state or the family, while
     serving the imperial God, has paid some grudging honours, at least
     verbally, to the infinite God as well, under the guise of
     liberalism, love of mankind, or the negation of classes. But today
     this imperfect homage is retracted, and nothing is reverenced
     except that which gives strength. If anyone preaches human
     kindness, it is in order to establish a "strong" community
     martially trained, like a super-state, to oppose everything not
     included within it, and to become omnipotent in the art of
     utilising the non-human forces of nature.... The will to return to
     God may prove to have been, in the history of the phenomenal world,
     a sublime accident."

Certainly the will to "return to God", if not an accident, is an incident in the life of the
world; and the whole world itself is a sublime accident, in the sense that its existence is
contingent, groundless, and precarious. Yet so long as the imperial God continues successfully
to keep our world going, it will be no accident, but a natural necessity, that many a mind
should turn to the thought of the infinite with awe, with a sense of liberation, and even with
joy. The infinite God owes all his worshippers, little as he may care for them, to the success
of the imperial God in creating reflective and speculative minds. Or (to drop these mythological
expressions which may become tiresome) philosophers owe to nature and to the discipline of
moral life their capacity to look beyond nature and beyond morality. And while they may look
beyond, and take comfort in the vision, they cannot pass beyond. As M. Benda says, the most
faithful Levite can return to the infinite only in his thought; in his life he must remain
a lay creature. Yet nature, in forming the human soul, unintentionally unlocked for the mind
the doors to truth and to essence, partly by obliging the soul to attend to things which are
outside, and partly by endowing the soul with far greater potentialities of sensation and invention
than daily life is likely to call forth. Our minds are therefore naturally dissatisfied with
their lot and speculatively directed upon an outspread universe in which our persons count
for almost nothing. These insights are calculated to give our brutal wills some pause. Intuition
of the infinite and recourse to the infinite for religious inspiration follow of themselves,
and can never be suppressed altogether, so long as life is conscious and experience provokes
reflection.

Spirit is certainly not one of the forces producing spirit, but neither is it a contrary force.
It is the actuality of feeling, of observation, of meaning. Spirit has no unmannerly quarrel
with its parents, its hosts, or even its gaolers: they know not what they do. Yet spirit belongs
intrinsically to another sphere, and cannot help wondering at the world, and suffering in it.
The man in whom spirit is awake will continue to live and act, but with a difference. In so
far as he has become pure spirit he will have transcended the fear of death or defeat; for
now his instinctive fear, which will subsist, will be neutralised by an equally sincere consent
to die and to fail. He will live henceforth in a truer and more serene sympathy with nature
than is possible to rival natural beings. Natural beings are perpetually struggling to live
only, and not to die; so that their will is in hopeless rebellion against the divine decrees
which they must obey notwithstanding. The spiritual man, on the contrary, in so far as he has
already passed intellectually into the eternal world, no longer endures unwillingly the continual
death involved in living, or the final death involved in having been born. He renounces everything
religiously in the very act of attaining it, resigning existence itself as gladly as he accepts
it, or even more gladly; because the emphasis which action and passion lend to the passing
moment seems to him arbitrary and violent; and as each task or experience is dismissed in turn,
he accounts the end of it more blessed than the beginning.

[11] The following quotations are drawn from Beyond the Pleasure Principle, by Sigmund Freud;
authorised translation by C.J.M. Hubback. The International Psycho-Analytic Press, 1922, pp.
29-48. The italics are in the original.

[12] Essai d'un Discours cohérent sur les Rapports de Dieu et du Monde. Par Julien Benda. Librairie
Gallimard, Paris, 1931.