Now when Tom got to the home of the water babies, in Saint Brandan's fairy isle, he found that
the isle stood all on pillars, and that its roots were full of caves. There were pillars of
black basalt and pillars of green and crimson serpentine; and pillars ribboned with red and
white and yellow sandstone; and there were blue grottoes and white grottoes, all curtained
and draped with seaweeds, purple and crimson, green and brown; and strewn with soft white sand,
on which the water babies sleep every night. But, to keep the place clean and sweet, the crabs
picked up all the scraps off the floor and ate them like so many monkeys; while the rocks were
covered with ten thousand sea anemones, and corals and madrepores, who scavenged the water
all day long, and kept it nice and pure. But, to make up to them for having to do such nasty
work, they were not left black and dirty, as poor chimney-sweeps and dustmen are. No; the fairies
are more considerate and just than that, and have dressed them all in the most beautiful colours
and patterns, till they look like vast flower beds of gay blossoms.

And, instead of watchmen and policemen to keep out nasty things at night, there were thousands
and thousands of water snakes, and most wonderful creatures they were.

They were dressed in green velvet, and black velvet, and purple velvet;
and were all jointed in rings; and some of them had three hundred brains
apiece, so that they must have been uncommonly shrewd detectives; and
some had eyes in their tails; and some had eyes in every joint, so that
they kept a very sharp lookout; and when they wanted a baby snake, they
just grew one at the end of their own tails, and when it was able to
take care of itself it dropped off; so that they brought up their
families very cheaply. But if any nasty thing came by, out they rushed
upon it; and then out of each of their hundreds of feet there sprang a
whole cutler's shop of
 Scythes,    Creeses,
 Billhooks,  Ghoorka swords,
 Pickaxes,   Tucks,
 Forks,      Javelins,
 Penknives,  Lances,
 Rapiers,    Halberts.
 Sabres,     Gisarines,
 Yataghans,  Poleaxes,
 Fishhooks,  Corkscrews,
 Bradawls,   Pins,
 Gimlets,    Needles,
    And so forth,
which stabbed, shot, poked, pricked, scratched, ripped, pinked, and
crimped those naughty beasts so terribly that they had to run for their
lives, or else be chopped into small pieces and be eaten afterwards.

And there were the water babies in thousands, more than Tom, or you either, could count. All
the little children whom the good fairies take to, because their cruel mothers and fathers
will not; all who are untaught and brought up heathens, and all who come to grief by ill usage
or ignorance or neglect; all the little children in alleys and courts, and tumble-down cottages,
who die by fever, and cholera, and measles, and scarlatina, and nasty complaints which no one
has any business to have, and which no one will have some day, when folks have common sense;
and all the little children who have been killed by cruel masters and wicked soldiers; they
were all there, except, of course, the babes of Bethlehem who were killed by wicked King Herod;
for they were taken straight to heaven long ago, as everybody knows, and we call them the Holy
Innocents.

But I wish Tom had given up all his naughty tricks, and left off tormenting dumb animals now
that he had plenty of playfellows to amuse him. Instead of that, I am sorry to say, he would
meddle with the creatures, all but the water snakes, for they would stand no nonsense. So he
tickled the madrepores, to make them shut up; and frightened the crabs, to make them hide in
the sand and peep out at him with the tips of their eyes; and put stones into the anemones'
[Footnote: The anemones spoken of here are not to be confused with the flowers which grow on
land. The sea anemones are alive, but the circles of tentacles about their mouths make them
look like flowers of the most beautiful colors. They have no eyes, and of course could not
see what Tom was offering them.] mouths, to make them fancy that their dinner was coming.

The other children warned him, and said, "Take care what you are at. Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid
is coming." But Tom never heeded them, being quite riotous with high spirits and good luck,
till, one Friday morning early, Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid came indeed.

A very tremendous lady she was; and when the children saw her they all stood in a row, very
upright indeed, and smoothed down their bathing dresses, and put their hands behind them, just
as if they were going to be examined by the inspector.

And she had on a black bonnet, and a black shawl, and no crinoline at all, and a pair of large
green spectacles, and a great hooked nose, hooked so much that the bridge of it stood quite
up above her eyebrows; and under her arm she carried a great birch-rod. Indeed she was so ugly
that Tom was tempted to make faces at her, but did not, for he did not admire the look of the
birch-rod under her arm.

And she looked at the children one by one, and seemed very much pleased with them, though she
never asked them one question about how they were behaving; and then began giving them all
sorts of nice sea things--sea cakes, sea apples, sea oranges, sea bullseyes, sea toffee; and
to the very best of all she gave sea ices, made out of sea-cows' cream, which never melt under
water.

Now little Tom watched all these sweet things given away, till his mouth watered, and his eyes
grew as round as an owl's. For he hoped that his turn would come at last; and so it did. For
the lady called him up, and held out her fingers with something in them, and popped it into
his mouth; and lo and behold, it was a nasty, cold, hard pebble.

"You are a very cruel woman," said he, and began to whimper.

"And you are a very cruel boy, who puts pebbles into the sea-anemones' mouths, to take them
in, and make them fancy that they have caught a good dinner. As you did to them, so must I
do to you."

"Who told you that?" said Tom.

"You did yourself, this very minute."

Tom had never opened his lips; so he was very much taken aback indeed.

"Yes; every one tells me exactly what they have done wrong; and that without knowing it themselves,
So there is no use trying to hide anything from me. Now go, and be a good boy, and I will put
no more pebbles in your mouth, if you put none in other creatures'." "I did not know there
was any harm in it," said Tom.

"Then you know now. People continually say that to me; but I tell them, if they don't know
that fire burns, that is no reason that it should not burn you; and if you don't know that
dirt breeds fever, that is no reason why the fevers should not kill you. The lobster did not
know that there was any harm in getting into the lobster-pot; but it caught him all the same."

"Dear me," thought Tom, "she knows everything!" And so she did, indeed.

"And so, if you do not know that things are wrong, that is no reason why you should not be
punished for them; though not as much, not as much, my little man" (and the lady looked very
kindly, after all), "as if you did know."

"Well, you are a little hard on a poor lad," said Tom.

"Not at all; I am the best friend you ever had in all your life. But I will tell you; I cannot
help punishing people when they do wrong. I like it no more than they do; I am often very,
very sorry for them, poor things; but I cannot help it. If I tried not to do it, I should do
it all the same. For I work by machinery, just like an engine; and am full of wheels and springs
inside; and am wound up very carefully, so that I cannot help going."

"Was it long ago since they wound you up?" asked Tom. For he thought, the cunning little fellow,
"She will run down some day; or they may forget to wind her up, as old Grimes used to forget
to wind up his watch when he came in from the public-house; and then I shall be safe."

"I was wound up once and for all, so long ago that I forgot all about it."

"Dear me," said Tom, "you must have been made a long time!"

"I never was made, my child; and I shall go for ever and ever; for I am as old as Eternity,
and yet as young as Time."

And there came over the lady's face a very curious expression--very solemn, and very sad; and
yet very, very sweet. And she looked up and away, as if she were gazing through the sea, and
through the sky, at something far, far off; and as she did so, there came such a quiet, tender,
patient, hopeful smile over her face that Tom thought for the moment that she did not look
ugly at all. And no more she did; for she was like a great many people who have not a pretty
feature in their faces, and yet are lovely to behold, and draw little children's hearts to
them at once; because though the house is plain enough, yet from the windows a beautiful and
good spirit is looking forth.

And Tom smiled in her face, she looked so pleasant for the moment. And the strange fairy smiled
too, and said:

"Yes. You thought me very ugly just now, did you not?"

Tom hung down his head, and got very red about the ears.

"And I am very ugly. I am the ugliest fairy in the world; and I shall be, till people behave
themselves as they ought to do. And then I shall grow as handsome as my sister, who is the
loveliest fairy in the world; and her name is Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby. So she begins where
I end, and I begin where she ends; and those who will not listen to her must listen to me,
as you will see. Now, all of you run away, except Tom; and he may stay and see what I am going
to do. It will be a very good warning for him to begin with, before he goes to school.

"Now, Tom, every Friday I come down here and call up all who have ill- used little children,
and serve them as they served the children."

And first she called up all the doctors who give little children so much physic (they were
most of them old ones; for the young ones have learnt better), and she set them all in a row;
and very rueful they looked; for they knew what was coming.

And first she pulled all their teeth out; and then she bled them all round; and then she dosed
them with calomel, and jalap, and salts and senna, and brimstone and treacle; and horrible
faces they made; and then she gave them a great emetic of mustard and water, and began all
over again; and that was the way she spent the morning.

And then she called up a whole troop of foolish ladies, who pinch their children's waists and
toes; and she laced them all up in tight stays, so that they were choked and sick, and their
noses grew red, and their hands and feet swelled; and then she crammed their poor feet into
the most dreadfully tight boots, and made them all dance; and then she asked them how they
liked it; and when they said not at all, she let them go; because they had only done it out
of foolish fashion, fancying it was for their children's good, as if wasps' waists and pigs'
toes could be pretty, or wholesome, or of any use to anybody.

Then she called up all the careless nursery-maids, and stuck pins into them all over, and wheeled
them about in perambulators with tight straps across their stomachs and their heads and arms
hanging over the side, till they were quite sick and stupid, and would have had sunstrokes;
but, being under the water, they could only have water-strokes; which, I assure you, are nearly
as bad, as you will find if you try to sit under a mill wheel. And mind--when you hear a rumbling
at the bottom of the sea, sailors will tell you that it is a ground swell; but now you know
better. It is the old lady wheeling the maids about in perambulators.

And by this time she was so tired, she had to go to luncheon.

And after luncheon she set to work again, and called up all the cruel schoolmasters--whole
regiments and brigades of them; and when she saw them, she frowned most terribly, and set to
work in earnest, as if the best part of the day's work was to come. And she boxed their ears,
and thumped them over the head with rulers, and pandied their hands with canes, and told them
that they told stories, and were this and that bad sort of people; and the more they were very
indignant, and stood upon their honour, and declared they told the truth, the more she declared
they were not, and that they were only telling lies; and at last she birched them all round
soundly with her great birch-rod and set them each an imposition of three hundred thousand
lines of Hebrew to learn by heart before she came back next Friday. And at that they all cried
and howled so, that their breaths came all up through the sea like bubbles out of soda water;
and that is one reason of the bubbles in the sea. There are others; but that is the one which
principally concerns little boys. And by that time she was so tired that she was glad to stop;
and, indeed, she had done a very good day's work.

Tom did not quite dislike the old lady; but he could not help thinking her a little spiteful--and
no wonder if she was, poor old soul; for if she has to wait to grow handsome till people do
as they would be done by, she will have to wait a very long time.

Poor old Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid! she has a great deal of hard work before her, and had better
have been born a washerwoman, and stood over a tub all day; but, you see, people cannot always
choose their own profession.

But Tom longed to ask her one question; and, after all, whenever she looked at him, she did
not look cross at all; and now and then there was a funny smile in her face, and she chuckled
to herself in a way which gave Tom courage, and at last he said:

"Pray, ma'am, may I ask you a question?"

"Certainly, my little dear."

"Why don't you bring all the bad masters here and serve them out, too? The butties [Footnote:
Butty, in the English coal-mining regions, is the name given to a man who takes a contract
to work out a certain area of coal. He employs other people to work for him. A nailer is a
man who makes nails.] that knock about the poor collier-boys; and the nailers that file off
their lads' noses and hammer their fingers; and all the master sweeps, like my master Grimes?
I saw him fall into the water long ago; so I surely expected he would have been here. I'm sure
he was bad enough to me."

Then the old lady looked so very stern that Tom was quite frightened, and sorry that he had
been so bold. But she was not angry with him. She only answered, "I look after them all the
week round; and they are in a very different place from this, because they knew that they were
doing wrong."

She spoke very quietly; but there was something in her voice which made Tom tingle from head
to foot, as if he had got into a shoal of sea nettles.

"But these people," she went on, "did not know that they were doing wrong; they were only stupid
and impatient; and therefore I only punish them till they become patient, and learn to use
their common sense like reasonable beings. But as for chimney-sweeps, and collier-boys, and
nailer lads, my sister has set good people to stop all that sort of thing; and very much obliged
to her I am; for if she could only stop the cruel masters from ill-using poor children, I should
grow handsome at least a thousand years sooner. And now do you be a good boy, and do as you
would be done by, which they did not; and then, when my sister, Madame Doasyouwouldbedoneby,
comes on Sunday, perhaps she will take notice of you, and teach you how to behave. She understands
that better than I do." And so she went.

Tom was very glad to hear that there was no chance of meeting Grimes again, though he was a
little sorry for him, considering that he used sometimes to give him the leavings of the beer;
but he determined to be a very good boy all Saturday; and he was; for he never frightened one
crab, nor tickled any live corals, nor put stones into the sea-anemones' mouths, to make them
fancy they had got a dinner; and when Sunday morning came, sure enough, Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby
came too. Whereat all the little children began dancing and clapping their hands, and Tom danced
too with all his might.

And as for the pretty lady, I cannot tell you what the colour of her hair was, or of her eyes;
no more could Tom; for when people look at her, all they can think of is, that she has the
sweetest, kindest, tenderest, funniest, merriest face they ever saw, or want to see. But Tom
saw that she was a very tall woman, as tall as her sister; but instead of being gnarly, and
horny, and scaly, and prickly, like her, she was the most nice, soft, fat, smooth, pussy, cuddly,
delicious creature who ever nursed a baby; and she understood babies thoroughly, for she had
plenty of her own, whole rows and regiments of them, and has to this day. And all her delight
was, whenever she had a spare moment, to play with babies, in which she showed herself a woman
of sense; for babies are the best company and the pleasantest playfellows in the world; at
least, so all the wise people in the world think. And therefore when the children saw her,
they naturally caught hold of her, and pulled her till she sat down on a stone, and climbed
into her lap, and clung round her neck, and caught hold of her hands; and then they all put
their thumbs into their mouths, and began cuddling and purring like so many kittens, as they
ought to have done. While those who could get nowhere else sat down on the sand, and cuddled
her feet--for no one, you know, wears shoes in the water, except horrid old bathing-women,
who are afraid of the water babies pinching their horny toes. And Tom stood staring at them;
for he could not understand what it was all about.

"And who are you, you little darling?" she said.

"Oh, that is the new baby!" they all cried, pulling their thumbs out of their mouths, "and
he never had any mother;" and they all put their thumbs back again, for they did not wish to
lose any time.

"Then I will be his mother, and he shall have the very best place; so get out, all of you,
this moment."

And she took up two great armfuls of babies--nine hundred under one arm and thirteen hundred
under the other--and threw them away, right and left, into the water. But they did not even
take their thumbs out of their mouths, but came paddling and wriggling back to her like so
many tadpoles, till you could see nothing of her from head to foot for the swarm of little babies.

But she took Tom in her arms, and laid him in the softest place of all, and kissed him, and
patted him, and talked to him, tenderly and low, such things as he had never heard before in
his life; and Tom looked up into her eyes, and loved her, and loved, till he fell asleep from
pure love.

And when he woke she was telling the children a story. And what story did she tell them? One
story she told them, which begins every Christmas Eve, and yet never ends at all, for ever
and ever; and as she went on, the children took their thumbs out of their mouths and listened
quite seriously, but not sadly at all; for she never told them anything sad; and Tom listened
too, and never grew tired of listening. And he listened so long that he fell fast asleep again,
and when he awoke, the lady was nursing him still.

"Now," said the fairy to Tom, "will you be a good boy for my sake, and torment no more sea
beasts till I come back?"

"And you will cuddle me again?" said poor little Tom.

"Of course I will, you little duck. I should like to take you with me and cuddle you all the
way, only I must not;" and away she went.

So Tom really tried to be a good boy, and tormented no sea beasts after that as long as he
lived; and he is quite alive, I assure you, still.

CHAPTER VI

Here I come to the very saddest part of all my story.

Now you may fancy that Tom was quite good, when he had everything that he could want or wish;
but you would be very much mistaken. Being quite comfortable is a very good thing; but it does
not make people good. Indeed, it sometimes makes them naughty, and I am very sorry to say that
this happened to little Tom. For he grew so fond of the sea bullseyes and sea lollipops that
his foolish little head could think of nothing else; and he was always longing for more, and
wondering when the strange lady would come again and give him some, and what she would give
him, and how much, and whether she would give him more than the others. And he thought of nothing
but lollipops by day, and dreamt of nothing else by night--and what happened then?

That he began to watch the lady to see where she kept the sweet things; and began hiding, and
sneaking, and following her about, and pretending to be looking the other way, or going after
something else, till he found out that she kept them in a beautiful mother-of-pearl cabinet
away in a deep crack of the rocks.

And he longed to go to the cabinet, and yet he was afraid; and then he longed again, and was
less afraid; and at last, by continual thinking about it, he longed so violently that he was
not afraid at all. And one night, when all the other children were asleep, and he could not
sleep for thinking of lollipops, he crept away among the rocks, and got to the cabinet, and
behold! it was open.

But when he saw all the nice things inside, instead of being delighted, he was quite frightened,
and wished he had never come there. And then he would only touch them, and he did; and then
he would only taste one, and he did; and then he would only eat one, and he did; and then he
would only eat two, and then three, and so on; and then he was terrified lest she should come
and catch him, and began gobbling them down so fast that he did not taste them, or have any
pleasure in them; and then he felt sick, and would have only one more; and then only one more
again; and so on till he had eaten them all up.

And all the while, close behind him, stood Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid.

Some people may say, "But why did she not keep her cupboard locked?" Well, I know. It may seem
a very strange thing, but she never does keep her cupboard locked; every one may go and taste
for himself, and fare accordingly. It is very odd, but so it is; and I am quite sure that she
knows best. Perhaps she wishes people to learn to keep their fingers out of the fire by having
them burned. She took off her spectacles, because she did not like to see too much; and in
her pity she arched up her eyebrows into her very hair, and her eyes grew so wide that they
would have taken in all the sorrows of the world, and filled with great big tears, as they
too often do.

But all she said was: "Ah, you poor little dear! you are just like all the rest."

But she said it to herself, and Tom neither heard nor saw her. Now, you must not fancy that
she was sentimental at all. If you do, and think that she is going to let off you, or me, or
any human being when we do wrong, because she is too tender-hearted to punish us, then you
will find yourself very much mistaken, as many a man does every year and every day.

But what did the strange fairy do when she saw all her lollipops eaten?

Did she fly at Tom, catch him by the scruff of the neck, hold him, hit him, poke him, pull
him, pinch him, pound him, put him in the corner, shake him, slap him, set him on a cold stone
to reconsider himself, and so forth?

Not a bit. You may watch her at work if you know where to find her. But you will never see
her do that. For, if she had, she knew quite well Tom would have fought and kicked, and bit,
and said bad words, and turned again that moment into a naughty little heathen chimney-sweep,
with his hand, like Ishmael's of old, against every man, and every man's hand against him.

Did she question him, hurry him, frighten him, threaten him, to make him confess? Not a bit.
You may see her, as I said, at her work often enough if you know where to look for her; but
you will never see her do that. For if she had, she would have tempted him to tell lies in
his fright; and that would have been worse for him, if possible, than even becoming a heathen
chimney-sweep again.

No. She leaves that for anxious parents and teachers (lazy ones, some call them), who, instead
of giving children a fair trial, such as they would expect and demand for themselves, force
them by fright to confess their own faults--which is so cruel and unfair that no judge on the
bench dare do it to the wickedest thief or murderer, for the good British law forbids it--ay,
and even punish them to make them confess, which is so detestable a crime that it is never
committed now.

So the fairy just said nothing at all about the matter, not even when Tom came next day with
the rest for sweet things. He was horribly afraid of coming, but he was still more afraid of
staying away, lest any one should suspect him. He was dreadfully afraid, too, lest there should
be no sweets--as was to be expected, he having eaten them all--and lest then the fairy should
inquire who had taken them. But behold! she pulled out just as many as ever, which astonished
Tom, and frightened him still more.

And when the fairy looked him full in the face, he shook from head to foot; however she gave
him his share like the rest, and he thought within himself that she could not have found him out.

But when he put the sweets into his mouth, he hated the taste of them; and they made him so
sick that he had to get away as fast as he could; and terribly sick he was, and very cross
and unhappy, all the week after. Then, when next week came, he had his share again; and again
the fairy looked him full in the face; but more sadly than she had ever looked. And he could
not bear the sweets; but took them again in spite of himself.

And when Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby came, he wanted to be cuddled like the rest; but she said
very seriously: "I should like to cuddle you, but I cannot; you are so horny and prickly."

And Tom looked at himself; and he was all over prickles, just like a sea egg.

Which was quite natural; for you must know and believe that people's souls make their bodies
just as a snail makes its shell (I am not joking, my little man; I am in serious, solemn earnest).
And therefore, when Tom's soul grew all prickly with naughty tempers, his body could not help
growing prickly too, so that nobody would cuddle him, or play with him, or even like to look
at him.

What could Tom do now but go away and hide in a corner and cry? For nobody would play with
him, and he knew full well why.

And he was so miserable all that week that when the ugly fairy came and looked at him once
more full in the face, more seriously and sadly than ever, he could stand it no longer, and
thrust the sweetmeats away, saying, "No, I don't want any: I can't bear them now;" and then
burst out crying, poor little man, and told Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid every word as it happened.

He was horribly frightened when he had done so; for he expected her to punish him very severely.
But instead, she only took him up and kissed him, which was not quite pleasant, for her chin
was very bristly indeed; but he was so lonely-hearted, he thought that rough kissing was better
than none.

"I will forgive you, little man," she said. "I always forgive people the moment they tell me
the truth of their own accord."

"Then you will take away all these nasty prickles?"

"That is a very different matter. You put them there yourself, and only you can take them away."

"But how can I do that?" asked Tom, crying afresh.

"Well, I think it is time for you to go to school; so I shall fetch you a schoolmistress, who
will teach you how to get rid of your prickles." And so she went away.

Tom was frightened at the notion of a schoolmistress; for he thought she would certainly come
with a birch-rod or a cane; but he comforted himself, at last, that she might be something
like the old woman in Vendale--which she was not in the least; for when the fairy brought her,
she was the most beautiful little girl that ever was seen, with long curls floating behind
her like a golden cloud, and long robes floating all round her like a silver one.

"There he is," said the fairy; "and you must teach him to be good, whether you like or not."

"I know," said the little girl; but she did not seem quite to like, for she put her finger
in her mouth, and looked at Tom under her brows; and Tom put his finger in his mouth, and looked
at her under his brows, for he was horribly ashamed of himself.

The little girl seemed hardly to know how to begin; and perhaps she would never have begun
at all if poor Tom had not burst out crying, and begged her to teach him to be good and help
him to cure his prickles; and at that she grew so tender-hearted that she began teaching him
as prettily as ever child was taught in the world.

And what did the little girl teach Tom? She taught him, first, what you have been taught ever
since you said your first prayers at your mother's knees; but she taught him much more simply.
For the lessons in that world, my child, have no such hard words in them as the lessons in
this, and therefore the water babies like them better than you like your lessons, and long
to learn them more and more; and grown men cannot puzzle nor quarrel over their meaning, as
they do here on land; for those lessons all rise clear and pure, out of the everlasting ground
of all life and truth.

So she taught Tom every day in the week; only on Sundays she always went away home, and the
kind fairy took her place. And before she had taught Tom many Sundays, his prickles had vanished
quite away, and his skin was smooth and clean again.

"Dear me!" said the little girl; "why, I know you now. You are the very same little chimney-sweep
who came into my bedroom."

"Dear me!" cried Tom, "And I know you, too, now. You are the very little white lady whom I
saw in bed." And he jumped at her, and longed to hug and kiss her; but did not, remembering
that she was a lady born; so he only jumped round and round her till he was quite tired.

And then they began telling each other all their story--how he had got into the water, and
she had fallen over the rock; and how he had swum down to the sea, and how she had flown out
of the window; and how this, that, and the other, till it was all talked out. And then they
both began over again, and I can't say which of the two talked fastest.

And then they set to work at their lessons again, and both liked them so well that they went
on well till seven full years were past and gone.

You may fancy that Tom was quite content and happy all those seven years; but the truth is,
he was not. He had always one thing on his mind, and that was--where little Ellie went, when
she went home on Sundays.

To a very beautiful place, she said.

But what was the beautiful place like, and where was it?

Ah! that is just what she could not say. And it is strange, but true, that no one can say;
and that those who have been oftenest in it, or even nearest to it, can say least about it,
and make people understand least what it is like.

But the dear, sweet, loving, wise, good, self-sacrificing people, who really go there, can
never tell you anything about it, save that it is the most beautiful place in all the world;
and if you ask them more, they grow modest, and hold their peace, for fear of being laughed
at; and quite right they are.

So all that good little Ellie could say was, that it was worth all the rest of the world put
together. And of course that only made Tom the more anxious to go likewise.

"Miss Ellie," he said at last, "I will know why I cannot go with you when you go home on Sundays,
or I shall have no peace, and give you none either."

"You must ask the fairies that."

So when the fairy, Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid, came next, Tom asked her.

"Little boys who are only fit to play with sea beasts cannot go there," she said. "THOSE WHO
GO THERE MUST GO FIRST WHERE THEY DO NOT LIKE, AND DO WHAT THEY DO NOT LIKE, AND HELP SOMEBODY
THEY DO NOT LIKE."

"Why, did Ellie do that?"

"Ask her."

And Ellie blushed, and said, "Yes, Tom, I did not like coming here at first; I was so much
happier at home, where it is always Sunday. And I was afraid of you, Tom, at first, because--because--"

"Because I was all over prickles? But I am not prickly now, am I, Miss Ellie?"

"No," said Ellie. "I like you very much now; and I like coming here, too."

"And perhaps," said the fairy, "you will learn to like going where you don't like, and helping
some one that you don't like, as Ellie has."

But Tom put his finger in his mouth, and hung his head down; for he did not see that at all.

So when Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby came, Tom asked her; for he thought in his little head, "She
is not so strict as her sister, and perhaps she may let me off more easily."

Ah, Tom, Tom, silly fellow! and yet I don't know why I should blame you, while so many grown
people have got the very same notion in their heads.

But when they try it, they just get the same answer as Tom did. For when he asked the second
fairy, she told him just what the first did, and in the very same words.

Tom was very unhappy at that. And when Ellie went home on Sunday, he fretted and cried all
day, and did not care to listen to the fairy's stories about good children, though they were
prettier than ever. Indeed, the more he overheard of them, the less he liked to listen, because
they were all about children who did what they did not like, and took trouble for other people,
and worked to feed their little brothers and sisters instead of caring only for their play.
And when she began to tell a story about a holy child in old times, who was martyred by the
heathen because it would not worship idols, Tom could bear no more, and ran away and hid among
the rocks.

And when Ellie came back, he was shy with her, because he fancied she looked down on him, and
thought him a coward. And then he grew quite cross with her, because she was superior to him,
and did what he could not do. And poor Ellie was quite surprised and sad; and at last Tom burst
out crying; but he would not tell her what was really in his mind.

And all the while he was eaten up with curiosity to know where Ellie went to; so that he began
not to care for his playmates, or for the sea palace or anything else. But perhaps that made
matters all the easier for him; for he grew so discontented with everything round him that
he did not care to stay, and did not care where he went.

"Well," he said, at last, "I am so miserable here, I'll go, if only you will go with me."

"Ah!" said Ellie, "I wish I might; but the worst of it is, that the fairy says that you must
go alone if you go at all. Now don't poke that poor crab about, Tom" (for he was feeling very
naughty and mischievous), "or the fairy will have to punish you."

Tom was very near saying, "I don't care if she does;" but he stopped himself in time.

"I know what she wants me to do," he said, whining most dolefully. "She wants me to go after
that horrid old Grimes. I don't like him, that's certain. And if I find him, he will turn me
into a chimney-sweep again, I know. That's what I have been afraid of all along."

"No, he won't--I know as much as that. Nobody can turn water babies into sweeps, or hurt them
at all, as long as they are good."

"Ah," said naughty Tom, "I see what you want; you are persuading me all along to go, because
you are tired of me, and want to get rid of me."

Little Ellie opened her eyes very wide at that, and they were all brimming over with tears.

"Oh, Tom, Tom!" she said, very mournfully--and then she cried, "Oh, Tom, where are you?"

And Tom cried, "Oh, Ellie, where are you?"

For neither of them could see the other--not the least. Little Ellie vanished quite away, and
Tom heard her voice calling him, and growing smaller and smaller, and fainter and fainter,
till all was silent.

Who was frightened then but Tom? He swam up and down among the rocks, into all the halls and
chambers, faster than ever he swam before, but could not find her. He shouted after her, but
she did not answer; he asked all the other children, but they had not seen her; and at last
he went up to the top of the water and began crying and screaming for Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid--which
perhaps was the best thing to do, for she came in a moment.

"Oh!" said Tom. "Oh dear, oh dear! I have been naughty to Ellie, and I have killed her--I know
I have killed her."

"Not quite that," said the fairy; "but I have sent her away home, and she will not come back
again for I do not know how long."

And at that Tom cried bitterly.

"How cruel of you to send Ellie away!" sobbed Tom. "However, I will find her again, if I go
to the world's end to look for her."

The fairy did not slap Tom, and tell him to hold his tongue; but she took him on her lap very
kindly, just as her sister would have done; and put him in mind how it was not her fault, because
she was wound up inside, like watches, and could not help doing things whether she liked or
not. And then she told him how he had been in the nursery long enough, and must go out now
and see the world, if he intended ever to be a man; and how he must go all alone by himself,
as every one else that ever was born has to go, and see with his own eyes, and smell with his
own nose, and make his own bed and lie on it, and burn his own fingers if he put them into
the fire. And then she told him how many fine things there were to be seen in the world, and
what an odd, curious, pleasant, orderly, respectable, well-managed, and, on the whole, successful
(as, indeed, might have been expected) sort of a place it was, if people would only be tolerably
brave and honest and good in it; and then she told him not to be afraid of anything he met,
for nothing would harm him if he remembered all his lessons, and did what he knew was right.
And at last she comforted poor little Tom so much that he was quite eager to go, and wanted
to set out that minute. "Only," he said, "if I might see Ellie once before I went!"

"Why do you want that?"

"Because--because I should be so much happier if I thought she had forgiven me."

And in the twinkling of an eye there stood Ellie, smiling, and looking so happy that Tom longed
to kiss her; but was still afraid it would not be respectful, because she was a lady born.

"I am going, Ellie!" said Tom. "I am going, if it is to the world's end. But I don't like going
at all, and that's the truth."

"Pooh! pooh! pooh!" said the fairy. "You will like it very well indeed, you little rogue, and
you know that at the bottom of your heart. But if you don't I will make you like it. Come here,
and see what happens to people who do only what is pleasant."

