There we were, like three fools, for twenty minutes or so; one of the buffaloes bleeding at
the mouth and with a broken hind-leg, for the bullet had traversed his body, and the other
turning round and round looking out for me, while I was anxiously watching him, and by degrees
loading my gun. When ready, I tried a shot at the sound one, but the cap snapped and nearly
betrayed me, for they both stared at the spot where I lay--the sound one sniffing the air and
tossing his horns, but the other bleeding considerably. Some minutes more passed in this manner,
when they allowed me to breathe freer by walking away. I followed, of course, but could not
get a good chance; so, as the night set in, I let them alone for the time being, to get out
the following morning.

21st and 22d.--At the place where I left off, I now sprang a large herd of fifty or more buffaloes,
and followed them for a mile, when the wounded one, quite exhausted from the fatigue, pulled
up for a charge, and allowed me to knock him over. This was glorious fun for the villagers,
who cut him up on the spot and brought him home. Of course, one half the flesh was given to
them, in return for which they brought us some small delicacies to show their gratitude; for,
as they truly remarked, until we came to their village they never knew what it was to get a
present, or any other gift by a good thrashing.

23d.--To-day I tried the ground again, and, whilst walking up the hill, two black rhinoceros
came trotting towards us in a very excited manner. I did not wish to fire at them, as what
few bullets remained in my store I wished to reserve in better sport, and therefore for the
time being, let them alone. Presently, however, they separated; one passed in front of us,
stopped to drink in a pool, and then lay down in it. Not heeding him, I walked up the hill,
whilst the other rhinoceros, still trotting, suddenly turned round and came to drink within
fifty yards of us, obstructing my path; this was too much of a joke; so, to save time, I gave
him a bullet, and knocked him over. To my surprise, the natives who were with me would not
touch his flesh, though pressed by me to "n'yam n'yam," or to eat. I found that they considered
him an unclean beast; so, regretting I had wasted my bullet, I went farther on and startled
some buffaloes.

Though I got very near them, however, a small antelope springing up in front of me scared them
away, and I could not get a front shot at any of them. Thus the whole day was thrown away,
for I had to return empty-handed.

24th to 30th.--Grant and I after this kept our pot boiling by shooting three more antelopes;
but nothing of consequence transpired until the 30th, when Bukhet, Mahamed's factotum, arrived
with the greater part of the Turk's property. He then confirmed a report we had heard before,
that, some days previously, Mahamed had ordered Bukhet to go ahead and join us, which he attempted
to do; but, on arrival at Panyoro, his party had a row with the villagers, and lost their property.
Bukhet then returned to Mahamed and reported his defeat and losses; upon hearing which, Mahamed
at once said to him, "What do you mean by returning to me empty-handed? go back at once and
recover your things else how can I make my report at Gondokoro?" With these peremptory orders
Bukhet went back to Panyoro, and commenced to attack it. The contest did not last long; for,
after three of Bukhet's men had been wounded, he set fire to the villages, killed fifteen of
the natives, and, besides recovering his own lost property, took one hundred cows.

31st.--To-day Mahamed came in, and commenced to arrange for the march onwards. This, however,
was no easy matter, for the Turks alone required six hundred porters--half that number to carry
their ivory, and the other half to carry their beds and bedding; whilst from fifty to sixty
men was the most a village had to spare, and all the village chiefs were at enmity with one
another. The plan adopted by Mahamed was, to summon the heads of all the villages to come to
him, failing which, he would seize all their belongings. Then, having once got them together,
he ordered them all to furnish him with so many porters a-head, saying he demanded it of them,
for the "great government's property" could not be left on the ground. Their separate interests
must now be sacrificed, and their feuds suspended: and if he heard, on his return again, that
one village had taken advantage of the other's weakness caused by their employment in his service,
he would then not spare his bullets,--so they might look out for themselves.

Some of the Turks, having found ninty-nine eggs in a crocodile's nest, had a grand feast. They
gave us two of the eggs, which we ate, but did not like, for they had a highly musky flavour.

1st.--On the 1st of February we went ahead again, with Bukhet and the first half of Mahamed's
establishment, as a sufficient number of men could not be collected at once to move all together.
In a little while we struck on the Nile, where it was running like a fine Highland stream between
the gneiss and mica-schist hills of Kuku, and followed it down to near where the Asua river
joined it. For a while we sat here watching the water, which was greatly discoloured, and floating
down rushes. The river was not as full as it was when we crossed it at the Karuma Falls, yet,
according to Dr Khoblecher's [26] account, it ought to have been flooding just at this time:
if so, we had beaten the stream. Here we left it again as it arched round by the west, and
forded the Asua river, a stiff rocky stream, deep enough to reach the breast when waded, but
not very broad. It did not appear to me as if connected with Victoria N'yanza, as the waters
were falling, and not much discoloured; whereas judging from the Nile's condition, it ought
to have been rising. No vessel ever could have gone up it, and it bore no comparison with the
Nile itself. The exaggerated account of its volume, however, given by the expeditionists who
were sent up the Nile by Mehemet Ali, did not surprise us, since they had mistaken its position;
for we were now 3° 42' north, and therefore had passed their "farthest point" by twenty miles.

In two hours more we reached a settlement called Madi, and found it deserted. Every man and
woman had run off into the jungles from fright, and would not come back again. We wished ourselves
at the end of the journey; thought anything better than this kind of existence--living entirely
at the expense of others; even the fleecings in Usui felt less dispiriting; but it could not
be helped, for it must always exist as long as these Turks are allowed to ride rough-shod over
the people. The Turks, however, had their losses also; for on the way four Bari men and one
Bari slave-girl slipped off with a hundred of their plundered cattle, and neither they nor
the cattle could be found again. Mijalwa was here convicted of having stolen the cloth of a
Turk whilst living in his hut when he was away at the Paira plundering and got fifty lashes
to teach him better behaviour for the future.

A party of fifty men came from Labure, a station on ahead of this, to take service as porters,
knowing that at this season the Turks always come with a large herd of plundered cattle, which
they call government property, and give in payment to the men who carry their tusks of ivory
across the Bari country.

We now marched over a rolling ground, covered in some places with bush-jungle, in others with
villages, where there were fine trees, resembling oaks in their outward appearance; and stopping
one night at the settlement of Barwudi, arrived at Labure, where we had to halt a day for Mahamed
to collect some ivory from a depot he had formed near by. We heard there was another ivory
party collecting tusks at Obbo, a settlement in the country of Panuquara, twenty miles east
of this.

Next we crossed a nullah draining into the Nile, and, travelling over more rolling ground,
flanked on the right by a range of small hills, put up at the Madi frontier station, Mugi,
where we had to halt two days to collect a full complement of porters to traverse the Bari
country, the people of which are denounced as barbarians by the Turks, because they will not
submit to be bullied into carrying their tusks for them. Here we felt an earthquake. The people
would not take beads, preferring, they said, to make necklaces and belts out of ostrich-eggs,
which they cut into the size of small shirt-buttons, and then drill a hole through their centre
to string them together. A passenger told us that three white men had just arrived in vessels
at Gondokoro; and the Bari people, hearing of our advance, instead of trying to kill us with
spears, had determined to poison all the water in their country. Mahamed now disposed of half
of his herd of cows, giving them to the chiefs of the villages in return for porters. These,
he said, were all that belonged to the government; for the half of all captures of cows, as
well as all slaves, all goats, and sheep, were allowed to the men as part of their pay.

When all was settled we marched, one thousand strong, to Wurungi; and next day, by a double
march, arrived at Marson, in the Bari country. I wished still to put up in the native villages,
but Mahamed so terrified all my men, by saying these Bari would kill us in the night if we
did not all sleep together in one large camp, that we were obliged to submit. The country,
still flanked on the right by hills, was undulating and very prettily wooded. Villages were
numerous, but as we passed them the inhabitants all fled from us, save a few men, who, bolder
than the rest, would stand and look on at us as we marched along. Both night and morning the
Turks beat their drums; and whenever they stopped to eat they sacked the villages.

Pushing on by degrees, stopping at noon to eat, we came again in sight of the Nile, and put
up at a station called Doro, within a short distance of the well-known hill Rijeb, where Nile
voyagers delight in cutting their names. The country continued the same, but the grass was
conspicuously becoming shorter and finer every day--so much so, that my men all declared it
was a sign of our near approach to England. After we had settled down for the night, and the
Turks had finished plundering the nearest villages, we heard two guns fired, and immediately
afterwards the whole place was alive with Bari people. Their drums were beaten as a sign that
they would attack us, and the war-drums of the villages around responded by beating also. The
Turks grew somewhat alarmed at this, and as darkness began to set in, sent out patrols in addition
to their nightly watches. The savages next tried to steal in on us, but were soon frightened
off by the patrols cocking their guns. Then, seeing themselves defeated in that tactic, they
collected in hundreds in front of us, set fire to the grass, and marched up and down, brandishing
ignited grass in their hands, howling like demons, and swearing they would annihilate us in
the morning.

We slept the night out, nevertheless, and next morning walked in to Gondokoro, N. Lat. 4° 54'
5", and E. long. 31° 46' 9", where Mahamed, after firing a salute, took us in to see a Circassian
merchant, named Kurshid Agha. Our first inquiry was, of course, for Petherick. A mysterious
silence ensued; we were informed that Mr Debono was THE man we had to thank for the assistance
we had received in coming from Madi; and then in hot haste, after warm exchanges of greeting
with Mahamed's friend, who was Debono's agent here, we took leave, to hunt up Petherick. A
little boy of his establishment had reported our arrival, and he in an instant came out to
welcome us. What joy this was I can hardly tell. We could not talk fast enough, so overwhelmed
were we both to meet again. Of course we were his guests in a moment, and learned everything
that could be told. I now first heard of the death of H.R.H. the Prince-Consort, which made
me reflect on the inspiring words he made use of, in compliment to myself, when I was introduced
to him by Sir Roderick Murchison, a short while before leaving England. Then there was the
terrible war in America, and other events of less startling nature, which came on us all by
surprise, as years had now passed since we had received news from the civilised world.

Baker then said he had come up with three vessels--one dyabir and two nuggers--fully equipped
with armed men, camels, horses, donkeys, beads, brass wire, and everything necessary for a
long journey, expressly to look after us, hoping, as he jokingly said, to find us on the equator
in some terrible fix, that he might have the pleasure of helping us out of it. He had heard
of Mahamed's party, and was actually waiting for him to come in, that he might have had the
use of his return-men to start with comfortably. An Italian, named Miani, had gone farther
up the Nile than any one else; and he, it now transpired, was the man who had cut his name
on the tree by Apuddo. But what had become of Petherick? He was actually trading at N'yambara,
seventy miles due west of this, though he had, since I left him in England, raised a subscription
of £1000, from those of my friends to whom this Journal is most respectfully dedicated as the
smallest return a grateful heart can give for their attempt to succour me, when knowing the
fate of the expedition was in great jeopardy.

Instead of coming up the Nile at once, as Petherick might have done--so I was assured--he waited,
whilst a vessel was building, until the season had too far advanced to enable him to sail up
the river. In short, he lost the north winds at 7° north, and went overland to his trading
depot at N'yambara. Previously, however, he had sent some boats up to this, under a Vakil,
who had his orders to cross to his trading depot at N'yambara, and to work from his trading
station due south, ostensibly with a view to look after me, though contrary to my advice before
leaving him in England, in opposition to his own proposed views of assisting me when he applied
for help to succour me, and against the strongly-expressed opinions of every European in the
same trade as himself; for all alike said they knew he would have gone to Faloro, and pushed
south from that place, had his trade on the west of the Nile not attracted him there.

Baker now offered me his boats to go down to Khartum, and asked me if there was anything left
undone which it might be of importance for him to go on and complete, by survey or otherwise;
for, although he should like to go down the river with us, he did not wish to return home without
having done something to recompense him for the trouble and expense he had incurred in getting
up his large expedition. Of course I told him how disappointed I had been in not getting a
sight of the Little Luta Nzige. I described how we had seen the Nile bending west where we
crossed in Chopi, and then, after walking down the chord of an arc described by the river,
had found it again in Madi coming from the west, whence to the south, and as far at least as
Koshi, it was said to be navigable, probably continuing to be so right into the Little Luta
Nzige. Should this be the case, then, by building boats in Madi above the cataracts, a vast
region might be thrown open to the improving influences of navigation. Further, I told Baker
of my contract with Kamrasi, and of the property I had left behind, with a view to stimulate
any enterprising man who might be found at this place to go there, make good my promise, and,
if found needful, claim my share of the things, for the better prosecution of his own travels
there. This Baker at once undertook, though he said he did not want my property; and I drew
out suggestions for him how to proceed. He then made friends with Mahamed, who promised to
help him on to Faloro, and I gave Mahamed and his men three carbines as an honorarium.

I should now have gone down the Nile at once if the moon had been in "distance" for fixing
the longitude; but as it was not, I had to remain until the 26th, living with Baker. Kurshid
Agha became very great friends with us, and, at once making a present of a turkey, a case of
wine, and cigars, said he was only sorry for his own sake that we had found a fellow-countryman,
else he would have had the envied honour of claiming us as his guests, and had the pleasure
of transporting us in his vessels down to Khartum.

The Rev. Mr Moorlan, and two other priests of the Austrian Mission, were here on a visit from
their station at Kich, to see the old place again before they left for Khartum; for the Austrian
Government, discouraged by the failure of so many years, had ordered the recall of the whole
of the establishment for these regions. It was no wonder these men were recalled; for, out
of twenty missionaries who, during the last thirteen years, had ascended the White river for
the purpose of propagating the Gospel, thirteen had died of fever, two of dysentary, and two
had retired broken in health, yet not one convert had been made by them.

The fact is, there was no government to control the population or to protect property; boys
came to them, looked at their pictures, and even showed a disposition to be instructed, but
there it ended; they had no heart to study when no visible returns were to be gained. One day
the people would examine the books, at another throw them aside, say their stomachs were empty,
and run away to look for food. The Bari people at Gondokoro were described as being more tractable
than those of Kich, being of a braver and more noble nature; but they were all half-starved--not
because the country was too poor to produce, but because they were too lazy to cultivate. What
little corn they grew they consumed before it was fully ripe, and then either sought for fish
in the river or fed on tortoises in the interior, as they feared they might never reap what
they sowed.

The missionaries never had occasion to complain of these blacks, and to this day they would
doubtless have been kindly inclined to Europeans, had the White Nile traders not brought the
devil amongst them. Mr Moorlan remembers the time when they brought food for sale; but now,
instead, they turn their backs upon all foreigners, and even abuse the missionaries for having
been the precursors of such dire calamities. The shell of the brick church at Gondokoro, and
the cross on the top of a native-built hut in Kich, are all that will remain to bear testimony
of these Christian exertions to improve the condition of these heathens. Want of employment,
I heard was the chief operative cause in killing the poor missionaries; for, with no other
resource left them to kill time, they spent their days eating, drinking, smoking, and sleeping,
till they broke down their constitutions by living too fast.

Mr Moorlan became very friendly, and said he was sorry he could not do more for us. His headquarters
were at Kich, some way down the river, where, as we passed, he hoped at least he might be able
to show us as much attention and hospitality as lay in his power. Mosquitoes were said to be
extremely troublesome on the river, and my men begged for some clothes, as Petherick, they
said, had a store for me under the charge of his Vakil. The storekeeper was then called, and
confirming the story of my men, I begged him to give me what was my own. It then turned out
that it was all Petherick's, but he had orders to give me on account anything that I wanted.
This being settled, I took ninety-five yards of the commonest stuff as a makeshift for mosquito-curtains
for my men, besides four sailor's shirts for my head men.

On the 18th, Kurshid Agha was summoned by the constant fire of musketry, a mile or two down
the river, and went off in his vessels to the relief. A party of his had come across from the
N'yambara country with ivory, and on the banks of the Nile, a few miles north of this, were
engaged fighting with the natives. He arrived just in time to settle the difficulty, and next
day came back again, having shot some of the enemy and captured their cows. Petherick, we heard,
was in a difficulty of the same kind, upon which I proposed to go down with Baker and Grant
to succour him; but he arrived in time, in company with his wife and Dr James Murie, to save
us the trouble, and told me he had brought a number of men with him, carrying ivory, for the
purpose now of looking after me on the east bank of the Nile, by following its course up to
the south, though he had given up all hope of seeing me, as a report had reached him of the
desertion of my porters at Ugogo. He then offered me his dyabir, as well as anything else that
I wanted that lay within his power to give. Suffice it to say, I had, through Baker's generosity,
at that very moment enough and to spare; but at his urgent request I took a few more yards
of cloth for my men, and some cooking fat; and, though I offered to pay for it, he declined
to accept any return at my hands.

Though I naturally felt much annoyed at Petherick--for I had hurried away from Uganda, and
separated from Grant at Kari, solely to keep faith with him--I did not wish to break friendship,
but dined and conversed with him, when it transpired that his Vakil, or agent, who went south
from the N'yambara station, came amongst the N'yam N'yam, and heard from them that a large
river, four days' journey more to the southward, was flowing from east to west, beyond which
lived a tribe of "women," who, when they wanted to marry, mingled with them in the stream and
returned; and then, again, beyond this tribe of women there lived another tribe of women and
dogs. Now, this may all seem a very strange story to those who do not know the negro's and
Arab's modes of expression; but to me it at once came very natural, and, according to my view,
could be interpreted thus:--The river, running from east to west, according to the native mode
of expressing direction, could be nothing but the Little Luta Nzige running the opposite way,
according to fact and our mode of expression. The first tribe of women were doubtless the Wanyoro--called
women by the naked tribes on this side because they wear bark coverings--an effeminate appendage,
in the naked man's estimation; and the second tribe must have been in allusion to the dog-keeping
Waganda, who also would be considered women, as they wear bark clothes. In my turn, I told
Petherick he had missed a good thing by not going up the river to look for me; for, had he
done so, he would not only have had the best ivory-grounds to work upon, but, by building a
vessel in Madi above the cataracts, he would have had, in my belief, some hundred miles of
navigable water to transport his merchandise. In short, his succouring petition was most admirably
framed, had he stuck to it, for the welfare of both of us. [28]

We now received our first letters from home, and in one from Sir Roderick Murchison I found
the Royal Geographical Society had awarded me their "founder's medal" for the discovery of
the Victoria N'yanza in 1858.

Conclusion

My journey down to Alexandria was not without adventure, and carried me through scenes which,
in other circumstances, it might have been worth while to describe. Thinking, however, that
I have already sufficiently trespassed on the patience of the reader, I am unwilling to overload
my volume with any matter that does not directly relate to the solution of the great problem
which I went to solve. Having now, then, after a period of twenty-eight months, come upon the
tracks of European travellers, and met them face to face, I close my Journal, to conclude with
a few explanations, for the purpose of comparing the various branches of the Nile with its
affluences, so as to show their respective values.

The first affluent, the Bahr el Ghazal, took us by surprise; for instead of finding a huge
lake, as described in our maps, at an elbow of the Nile, we found only a small piece of water
resembling a duck-pond buried in a sea of rushes. The old Nile swept through it with majestic
grace, and carried us next to the Geraffe branch of the Sobat river, the second affluent, which
we found flowing into the Nile with a graceful semicircular sweep and good stiff current, apparently
deep, but not more than fifty yards broad.

Next in order came the main stream of the Sobat, flowing into the Nile in the same graceful
way as the Geraffe, which in breadth it surpassed, but in velocity of current was inferior.
The Nile by these additions was greatly increased; still it did not assume that noble appearance
which astonished us so much, immediately after the rainy season, when we were navigating it
in canoes in Unyoro.

I here took my last lunar observations, and made its mouth N. lat. 9° 20' 48", E. long. 31°
24' 0". The Sobat has a third mouth farther down the Nile, which unfortunately was passed without
my knowing it; but as it is so well known to be unimportant, the loss was not great.

Next to be treated of is the famous Blue Nile, which we found a miserable river, even when
compared with the Geraffe branch of the Sobat. It is very broad at the mouth, it is true, but
so shallow that our vessel with difficulty was able to come up it. It has all the appearance
of a mountain stream, subject to great periodical fluctuations. I was never more disappointed
that with this river; if the White river was cut off from it, its waters would all be absorbed
before they could reach Lower Egypt.

The Atbara river, which is the last affluent, was more like the Blue river than any of the
other affluences, being decidedly a mountain stream, which floods in the rains, but runs nearly
dry in the dry season.

I had now seen quite enough to satisfy myself that the White river which issues from the N'yanza
at the Ripon Falls, is the true or parent Nile; for in every instance of its branching, it
carried the palm with it in the distinctest manner, viewed, as all the streams were by me,
in the dry season, which is the best time for estimating their relative perennial values.

Since returning to England, Dr Murie, who was with me at Gondokoro, has also come home; and
he, judging from my account of the way in which we got ahead of the flooding of the Nile between
the Karuma Falls and Gondokoro, is of opinion that the Little Luta Nzige must be a great backwater
to the Nile, which the waters of the Nile must have been occupied in filling during my residence
in Madi; and then about the same time that I set out from Madi, the Little Luta Nzige having
been surcharged with water, the surplus began its march northwards just about the time when
we started in the same direction. For myself, I believe in this opinion, as he no sooner asked
me how I could account for the phenomenon I have already mentioned of the river appearing to
decrease in bulk as we descended it, than I instinctively advanced his own theory. Moreover,
the same hypothesis will answer for the sluggish flooding of the Nile down to Egypt.

