"Unable to proceed with the effects of the surprise, my losing antagonist imagined that I was
making some sign to a secret confidant, but not daring to express his suspicion, only requested
the dice should be changed. They were so. The new ones were not cubes, and they were uneven
in weight. I lost back the greatest part of my winnings; and I also lost character. It was
observed that I threw the casts in a different manner from that in which I had thrown the first
dice. A suspicion arose among the spectators that I did so on purpose to lose, and in a few
evenings I was stripped of the greater part of my fortune, for every evening the dice were
changed, and sometimes often in the course of a night. At last I quitted Paris, with the matured
character of a thorough libertine and an unfair gamester.

"I took my passage at Marseilles, for Naples, and at the time appointed for embarkation, went
to the mole to go on board.

"It was evening; the sun had set some time; the beacon of the port was lighted; and the dawn
of the moon was brightening the eastern horizon. The populace, who were enjoying the cool air,
had not however dispersed, but were standing in numerous groups around. A feeling at the moment
came upon me that the Demon was near, and I resolved if it appeared again to employ my sword,
although at the time persuaded that it was but a form impalpable. In the same moment I saw
it before me; out flew my sword, and in the instant I felt that it pierced a mortal heart;
but instead of the old visionary-man, I beheld a boatman dead and bleeding at my feet. A wild
cry arose. The mob seized me, and I was carried to prison. Next day the case was investigated
before the court of justice. I related the simple fact. A glib advocate doubted my asseverations;
but the spectators, who were numerous, gave the fullest credit to the story, and I was spared
the doom of a murderer, because the judges were of opinion that I could have no motive to commit
the crime, and had perpetrated the deed under some influence of temporary lunacy.

"That was the wanton assassination with which all Europe rang at the time, and was ascribed
to the extravagance of my reprobate nature.

"After my liberation, I proceeded to Naples, and mingling in all the pleasures of that luxurious
city, in addition to my dexterity with the dice, I acquired equal skill at the cards. In the
study of them I found my sight possessed of a faculty not before imagined. The sharpness of
my sight soon enable me to discover at once all the cards of a pack distinctly from each other,
and I speedily was master of every popular game. This superiority made me heedless of my disbursements;
I could at any time supply my purse at the gaming-table, and as a consequence of that independence,
I surrendered myself to enjoyment, and for years lived in riot and revelry, unmolested by the
Demon.

"An unvaried career of licentiousness was not, however, my lot. An irascible countryman of
yours, a lieutenant of the royal navy, who was introduced to me at a party, suddenly seemed
to scowl at me with the visage of the demon, as we were in the heat of an argument, and I struck
him in the face. A duel was the consequence, and he disabled me in the right arm. That accident
destroyed my sleight-of-hand with the dice. Thus was one source of my income cut off; a slight
fever soon afterwards left its dregs in my eyes, I could no longer distinguish the cards with
my wonted accuracy, and thus fell into poverty.

"Disturbed at the blight which had fallen on my fortunes, I shunned the haunts of the gay and
reckless, and became a cicerone to the travellers; for my reputation as a libertine had reached
Poland, and I was ashamed to return home.

"One day, when I had conducted an English family to Herculaneum, I felt myself a little indisposed
while showing them the theatre, and, with much charitable feeling, they insisted on my going
up to the fresh air, and leave them with the common guide. Glad to avail myself of their kindness,
I instantly retired, and at a short distance from the opening where we descended, I sat down
on the capital of a defaced Corinthian column, to wait their return.

"While sitting on that spot, I cast my eyes accidentally towards the summit of Vesuvius, then
emitting, as if panting for breath, occasional volumes of white smoke. As they rolled along
the speckless expanse of the calm blue firmament, they assumed various beautiful forms, and
I was watching their progress, forgetful of all but the visible poesy of their appearance,
when the voice of the Demon whispered, as if its dreadful lips were at my ear--'YOUR BROTHER.'

"I started from my seat, and looked behind me in horror; but only the bay, with its romantic
shores, was in sight.

"When I had shaken off the consternation of the moment, I resumed my seat, and began to examine
myself as to the purpose suggested by the portentous words. My cogitation was not long. The
count was unmarried, and was the only impediment between me and the family estates.

"You can imagine what followed: here I am, and this night I shall be with the Demon; but I
should continue the remainder of my story. When the English travellers returned, they spoke
to me with a friendly tenderness, and something in my appearance and manners had so interested
them in my favour, that the old gentleman presented me with a purse of guineas. That money
enabled me at once to return to Warsaw, where I consummated the instigation of the Demon."

Such was the tale told me by the unhappy man--wonderful certainly in its circumstances, but
widely different from the terrific chaos of the popular belief, and simple in its incidents,
compared to the incantations with which the apparitions of the tremendous visitant were invested
by the people.

I would have questioned him more particularly, but our interview was interrupted by the arrival
of the ecclesiastical procession, and I was obliged to leave the prison. After the clergy,
all but one, who remained with him to the last, had left him, nobody was admitted. The crowd,
however, round the scaffold continued all day to increase, and the bells to toll. At last the
sun set, the guards lighted their torches, and only the black scaffold and the upturned faces
of the multitude were visible from where I stood. The prison gate was soon after opened; the
culprit, wrapped in a winding sheet, came forth, attended by the municipal officers, and proceeded
with the funereal sound of trumpets to the dreadful spot where the two executioners, with their
arms and throats bare, lifted a covering from the rack, and took their stations beside it,
holding the handspikes, for turning the rending wheels, like muskets, on their shoulders. The
moment that Mavrovitch mounted the scaffold, the trumpets and the tolling bells ceased; all
was silent, and he walked with a firm tread towards the engine of torture. The executioners
stepped forward, each took him by the arm. At the same moment a wild shriek rose; but what
ensued is so well known, that I may spare myself from further recital.--New Mon. Mag.--(abridged.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONMOUTHSHIRE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Soon round us spread the hill and dales
  Where Geoffrey spun his magic tales
  And call'd them history. The land
  Whence Arthur sprung, and all his band
  Of gallant knights.

  BLOOMFIELD'S BANKS OF WYE.

This county, the inland parts of which consist of verdant meadow or arable land, is bounded
on all sides excepting that which joins the Severn, by ranges of hills which have generally
either been covered with woods or devoted to the feeding of cattle. The southern or Severn
side presents to the view well cultivated lands, gently rising from the shore.

Monmouth, the capital town, is situated at the confluence of the Wye and Munnow, "in a vale,"
says Gray, "which is the delight of my eyes, and the very seat of pleasure." It is surrounded
on all sides by hills, which by affording the lowlands shelter from the bleak winds, promote
vegetation, and present a beautiful prospect of hanging woods, interspersed with corn and pasture
land.

The town consists principally of one long and handsome street, at the end of which is an old
tower, which formerly defended the Munnow Bridge. There are a few remains of the castle in
which Henry V. was born; an elegant and highly ornamented residence "the Castle House," has
been built within its site, and partly of its materials. Monmouth is supposed to be the ancient
Blestium. Abergavenny on the Usk is situated in a spot which partakes still more of the character
of Welsh scenery: on the south west rises the Blorench mountain, in height 1,720 feet; to the
north west the still higher mountain of the Sugar Loaf towers amidst the clouds. To the north
east lies St. Michael's Mountain, or the Great Skyrrid, at one end of which is a remarkable
chasm about 300 feet in breadth. The castle at Abergavenny formerly belonged to the Nevilles.
The Welsh chroniclers have celebrated the Mountains of Carno, near this place, as having been
bedewed with the blood of the Saxons.

The magnificent ruins of Ragland Castle lie half way between Monmouth and Abergavenny. Charles
I. was entertained here during the first troubles of his reign, with noble hospitality by the
aged Marquess of Worcester, who surrendered the castle, after a siege of almost three months,
to the Parliamentary army under Sir Thomas Fairfax, in 1646:

  "Majestic Ragland! Harvests wave
  Where thundering hosts their watchword gave,
  When cavaliers, with downcast eye,
  Struck the last flag of loyalty."

  BLOOMFIELD.

His son Edward, the second Marquess, was the author of the celebrated "Century of Inventions,"
in which the first hint of the steam engine appeared, which he calls "By divine providence,
and heavenly inspiration, a stupendous water commanding engine, boundless for height or quantity;"
and so delighted was he at the discovery of what he terms "The most stupendous work in the
whole world," that he returned thanks to God for having vouchsafed him an insight into so great
a secret of nature. He died in 1667, and his remains were conveyed with mournful solemnity
to the cemetery of the Beaufort family in Ragland Church.

The town of Caerleon on the Usk, abounds with Roman remains, and is supposed to have been built
on the site of a British town. Giraldus Cambrensis writes that "very eminent men were brought
up and taught here," which countenances the supposition that its real name may have been Cathain
Leigean, "the city of learning."

About two miles to the east of the mouth of the Usk rises Goldcliff, a solitary hill amidst
the moors on the banks of the Severn. It derives its name from its glittering appearance when
the sun beams on it. "I cannot be persuaded," says Camden, that "there is a flower here without
fruit, were any man to search into the veins, and using the direction of art enter into the
inmost and most secret bowels of the earth."

Caerwent, the Venta Silurum of the Romans, is now an inconsiderable village; it was once a
seaport, but at present is two miles distant from the Severn; it occupies a gently inclining
plain. Mr. Coxe, in his "Tour through Monmouthshire," has given a plan of the Roman town, which
was defended on all sides except the southern, by a deep fosse. The walls are from twelve to
twenty-four feet in height, and from nine to twelve in thickness. Many curious figures which
have been discovered in the pavements, have been destroyed through the ignorance of the country
people. The mounds and mouldering walls in the adjacent fields, present melancholy memorials
of the former grandeur of this place.

The village of Trelech is remarkable for three Druidical stones, which give name to it. Harold
here defeated the Britons, and from an inscription on a pedestal in the village, we may suppose
that a large tumulus near this spot, contains the bones of the slain.

At the mansion of Courtfield, at Welsh Bicknor, the seat of the Roman Catholic family of Vaughan,
Henry V. is traditionally reported to have been nursed, under the care of the Countess of Salisbury;
a monumental effigy of a lady in accordance with the style of that age, is in the church.

The celebrated ruins of Tintern Abbey, on the banks of the Wye, which are kept in high preservation
by the Duke of Beaufort, afford a noble specimen of Gothic architecture, and retain marks of
their ancient magnificence:

  "The fair wrought shaft all ivy bound
  The tow'ring arch with foliage crown'd
  That trembles on its brow sublime,
  Triumphant o'er the spoils of Time."

These remains acquire additional beauty from their romantic situation. The roof has fallen
in; but the pillars and tracery of many of the windows are perfect. The green lawn is covered
with fragments of sculpture and memorials of those who once dwelt within this magnificent pile:

  "But all is still. The chequer'd floor,
  Shall echo to the step no more;
  Nor airy roof the strain prolong
  Of vesper chant or choral song."

  BLOOMFIELD.

In the year 1634, Colonel Sandys attempted to make the Wye navigable by means of locks, but
as this experiment was unsuccessful, they were afterwards removed. This river from the confluence
of its mountain streams after heavy rains, is subject to sudden inundations, which though in
many respects injurious to the farmer, greatly fertilize the meadows in its vicinity, and especially
those near Monmouth, by the valuable matter it deposits. The tide of the Severn, from the peculiar
projection of the rocks at the mouth of the Wye, flows up the latter river with great rapidity,
to the height of more than forty feet. "The highest tide," says Mr. Coxe, "within the memory
of the present generation, rose to fifty-six feet."

To the admirers of the architecture of the baronial mansions of the middle ages, the remains
of the numerous castles which have been erected on the banks of the Wye to repel the incursions
of the Welsh, by the Talbots and Strongbows, and other renowned families of former days, will
afford the highest gratification, and give a silent though powerful admonition, that human
grandeur endureth but for a day:

              "On the Gwentian shore
  The regal banner streams no more.
  Nettles and vilest weeds that grow,
  To mock poor grandeur's head laid low,
  Creep round the turret's valour rais'd,
  And flaunt where youth and beauty gazed."

W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUNDAY LIBRARY.

This work is intended to consist of "Manuals of Religious Edification, more especially adapted
for the LORD'S DAY; as containing the sentiments of many of the more eminent Divines of the
Church of England in the Discourses delivered from their pulpits:" or, in plain terms, it is
to comprise a Selection of Sermons from the most eminent Divines of the Church of England,
chiefly within the last half century. Its editorship is entrusted to the learned and accomplished
Dr. Dibdin, who enforces the publication of a religious Library, in these energetic words:--"Let
it be specially impressed upon the minds of Christians of EVERY persuasion, that at NO moment
can a work, similar to the present, have stronger claims upon their attention and support,
than at this precise period, when the elements of civil society seem to be agitated in a variety
of directions, and when a sound and sober exposition of Scriptural Truths may essentially contribute
to the support of the best interests of the COUNTRY."

The two volumes before us contain the incomparable Mount Sermon by Bishop Porteus; Bishop Bloomfield
on the Choice of a Religion; two Sermons by Paley; prefixed to the latter is a Memoir, concluding
with these excellent observations by the Editor:--

"The Sermons of Paley were chiefly a posthumous publication. They were preached to, as they
were written for, a country congregation; they are therefore divested of studied ornament of
style, and elaboration of argument. But they bear the peculiar impress of the author's own
powerful and unsophisticated mind; and for strength of conception, and clearness and sometimes
vigour of expression, it may be questioned whether many in them have been ever surpassed. They
are not, strictly speaking, eloquent; but there is a force, as well us a novelty of treatment,
in many of them, that put them above all comparison. They are familiar without coarseness,
and terse without obscurity. Their main charm may be said to consist in the simplicity and
strength with which religious and moral truths are handled; the uncompromising and straightforward
manner in which human frailties and sins are exposed; the kindliness of exhortation to repentance
and godliness of living; the power, purity, and comfort of the Gospel-dispensation; and, above
all, the perfect absence of fanaticism, of an overheated fancy, and of a persecuting spirit.
But these qualities, which so eminently distinguish the writer, ought in some degree to possess
the reader, of the sermons in question. For the kindly reception of the scriptural truths enforced
by Paley, there must be nothing ascetic, nothing morose, nothing self-willed and intolerant,
in the mind of him who sets himself in right earnest to the task of their perusal. In like
manner, all highly wrought, impassioned, and uncontrollable emotions, which carry the infatuated
understanding into a wide and wild sea of doubt and distraction, must be absent from the reader.
It cannot be dissembled that, when read with a proper spirit, we rise from the perusal of Paley's
Sermons not less convinced of the necessity of putting a guard upon the unruliness of our passions,
than of living in peace, goodwill, and brotherly love with all mankind."

Among the remainder in the first volume (in all 16,) is Bishop Horne's Life a Journey, upon
that touching line in Psalm cxix.--

  "I am a stranger upon the earth."

How beautifully are the consolations of our blessed religion set forth in the imagery of the
subsequent extract:--

"Although the traveller's first and chief delight is the recollection of his home, which lies
as a cordial at his heart, and refreshes him every where and at all seasons, this does by no
means prevent him from taking that pleasure in the several objects presenting themselves on
the road, which they are capable of affording, and were indeed intended to afford. He surveys,
in passing, the works and beauties of nature and art, meadows covered with flocks, valleys
waving with corn, verdant woods, blooming gardens, and stately buildings. He surveys and enjoys
them, perhaps, much more than their owners do, but leaves them without a sigh, reflecting on
the far greater and sincerer joys that are waiting for him at home. Such exactly is the temper
and disposition with which the Christian traveller should pass through the world. His religion
does not require him to be gloomy and sullen, to shut his eyes, or to stop his ears; it debars
him of no pleasure, of which a thinking and reasonable man would wish to partake. Earthly cities
and palaces cause him to remember thee, O thou holy city, heavenly Jerusalem, whose walls are
salvation, and thy gates praise, and the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple in the
midst of thee! He who sees the world in this light will draw its sting, and disarm it of its
power to hurt; he will so use it as not to abuse it, because the fashion of it passes away;
he will so enjoy it, as to be always ready to leave it for a better; he will not think of settling
at his inn, because it is pleasantly situated. He remembers that he is a traveller; he forgets
not that he is a stranger in the earth."

What will the scoffers and scorners, the haters of good works, say to the sacred truths--the
soft-breathing simplicity--of this extract. How painful then is it to turn to the idle speculations
and feverish fancies of their philosophical unbelief.

Dr. Dibdin has supplied the sketches of the Reverend Authors and the Notes. One of the latter
on a passage in the Sermon, Scripture Difficulties Vindicated, by the Rev. C. Benson, relates
to a noble, but lamentably sceptical, poet.

We have looked through the second volume, which contains twenty-three Sermons, and notice this
beautiful passage from a Sermon by Dr. Townson:

"And, to take up once more the comparison of life to a voyage, in like manner it fares with
those, who have steadily and religiously pursued the course which heaven pointed out to them.
We shall sometimes find, by their conversation towards the end of their days, that they are
filled with hope, and peace, and joy; which, like those refreshing gales and reviving odours
to the seaman, are breathed forth from Paradise upon their souls; and give them to understand
with certainty, that God is bringing them unto their desired haven."

(Note by the Editor.) The poetical spirit of this paragraph is not less remarkable, than its
discriminative piety. 152.

Another passage, scarcely less poetical, and, in moral beauty, far superior, affords a still
more striking coincidence:

  The merchant, who towards spicy regions sails,
  Smells their perfume far off, in adverse gales;
  With blasts which thus against the faithful blow,
  Fresh odorous breathings of God's goodness flow.

  Bp. Ken. Works, i. 494.

It is an interesting proof of the fertility of Dr. Townson's mental resources, that in the
original manuscript, he has left behind, on a separate leaf, an equally fine illustration;
to be occasionally substituted for that which has called forth these remarks. It were injustice
to withhold it from the reader:

"In this situation, the devout Christian may be compared to a traveller journeying towards
some fair city, in which he has beforehand established a good correspondence. He has climbed
the hill that stands next to it; and, though the distance still forbids him to take a distinct
survey of it, yet the prospect of its towers and buildings rising before him, of its spires
and pinnacles glittering in the air, and of peace and pleasantness in its borders, revives
his heart. The consideration of his past perils and fatigues now gives him pleasure. He is
thankful to a gracious Providence, that has led him almost through them, and brought him to
a point, whence he has a downward and direct way to a place of rest and abode; in which he
will meet with a cordial reception, and be delighted with new scenes of beauty, magnificence,
and wonder. With such satisfaction doth faith fill the heart of the religious pilgrim and stranger,
when he has nearly travelled through the changes and chances of this mortal life, and feels
himself approaching to the heavenly Jerusalem, the abiding city."

The accomplished author, himself, like Milton, a traveller, here blends his own observation
of foreign lands, with his recollections of our great poet:--

                 As when a scout
  Through dark and desert ways with peril gone
  All night, at last by break of cheerful dawn,
  Obtains the brow of some high-climbing hill,
  Which to his eye discovers unaware
  The goodly prospect of some foreign land
  First seen, or some renown'd metropolis,
  With glitt'ring spires and pinnacles adorn'd,
  Which now the rising sun gilds with his beams.

  Paradise Lost, iii. 543.

The Sunday Library, it should be added, is printed in correspondent style with the Cabinet
Cyclopaedia, and each volume has a finely engraved Frontispiece Portrait.

       *       *       *       *       *

VENETIAN HISTORY.

The Family Library Editor has judiciously enough filled his 20th volume with "Sketches" from
the History of Venice. Another volume is promised, the present extending from the settlement
of the Veneti in Italy to the year 1406. The intention is stated to be, "to present in detail
some of the most striking incidents of the History of this great Republic, connecting them
with each other by a brief and rapid survey of minor events;" for which purpose the Editor
has freely taxed Sismondi and the late Count Daru. The result is one of the most enchanting
volumes of historiettes that has ever fallen into our hands; illustrating, to be sure, numberless
dark points, or "damned spots" of human history; "much of atrocious guilt, of oppression, cruelty,
fraud, treachery, baseness, and ingratitude;" yet the very heinousness of these characteristics
carries on and keeps up the intense interest of the volume.

We select for extract the "tragical tragedy" of Marino Faliero--not so much for its novelty
to the reader, as for correcting an erroneous view into which the license of poetry may have
led him:--

The name of Marino Faliero is familiar to English ears; but the reader who borrows his conception
of the Doge of Venice from the modern drama in our language which purports to relate his story,
will wander as far from historic truth as from nature and probability. The Chronicle of Sanuto,
which the poet has avowed to be his basis, presents no trace of that false, overwrought, and
unintelligible passion which, in the tragedy, is palmed upon us for nice sensitiveness to injured
honour. We are told, indeed, that the angry old man had once so far indulged his choleric humour
as to fell to the ground a somewhat tardy bishop during the celebration of a holy solemnity.
We hear of a fiery temper, accustomed to command, elated by success, and in which, on the confession
of Petrarch, who was personally well informed regarding it, valour predominated over prudence.
These are the unsettled elements upon which the Tempter best loves to work; but the insanity
and extravagance with which we must charge Faliero, if we suppose his attempt to overthrow
the government of which he was chief, arose solely from an outrageous desire of revenge for
a petty insult, are entirely gratuitous, and belong altogether to the poet. Madness of another
kind, however, that of ambition, is clearly ascribable to him; and, if we take this as our
key, much of the obscurity attendant upon a catastrophe which has been imperfectly and inadequately
developed will be cleared away; we shall obtain a character little indeed awakening our sympathy,
but yet not wholly at variance with our judgment; and although we may be astonished at, and
recoil from the motives which prompted his crime, they will not be altogether of a class which
sets our comprehension at defiance.[6]

At a banquet, which it was customary for the doge to celebrate in his palace, after the bull-hunt,
on the Carnival Thursday, a squabble had arisen from some too pressing familiarity offered
by one of the young gallants of the court to his mistress. Michele Steno, a gentleman of poor
estate, was enamoured of a lady in attendance upon the dogaressa; and, presuming upon her favour,
he was guilty of some freedom which led the doge to order his exclusion.--This command appears
to have been executed with more than necessary violence; and the youth, fired by the indignity
which disgraced him in the eyes of his mistress, sought revenge by assailing Faliero in that
point in which he conceived him to be most vulnerable. He wrote on the doge's chair, in the
council chamber, a few words reflecting upon the dogaressa: "Marino Faliero, husband of the
lovely wife; he keeps, but others kiss her."[7] The offence was traced to its author; it was
pitiful and unmanly; yet it scarcely deserved heavier punishment than that which the XL adjudged
to it--namely, that Steno should be imprisoned for two months, and afterwards banished from
the state for a year. But, to the morbid and excited spirit of Faliero, the petty affront of
this rash youth appeared heightened to a state crime; and the lenient sentence with which his
treason (for so he considered it) had been visited, was an aggravation of every former indignity
offered to the chief magistrate by the oligarchy which affected to control him. Steno, he said,
should have been ignominiously hanged, or at least condemned to perpetual exile.

On the day after the sentence, while the doge was yet hot in indignation, an event occurred
which seems to have confirmed the chronicler whose steps we are following, in his belief in
the doctrine of necessity. "Now it was fated," he tells us, "that my Lord Duke Marino was to
have his head cut off. And as it is necessary, when any effect is to be brought about, that
the cause of that effect must happen, it therefore came to pass"--that Bertuccio Israello,
Admiral of the Arsenal,[8] a person apparently of no less impetuous passions than the doge
himself, and who is described as possessed also of egregious cunning, approached him to seek
reparation for an outrage. A noble had dishonoured him by a blow; and it was vain to ask redress
for this affront from any but the highest personage in the state. Faliero, brooding over his
own imagined wrongs, disclaimed that title, and gladly seized occasion to descant on his personal
insignificance. "What wouldst thou have me do for thee?" was his answer: "Think upon the shameful
gibe which hath been written concerning me, and think on the manner in which they have punished
that ribald Michele Steno, who wrote it; and see how the Council of XL respect our person!"
Upon this, the admiral returned--"My Lord Duke, if you would wish to make yourself a prince,
and cut all those cuckoldy gentlemen to pieces, I have the heart, if you do but help me, to
make you prince of all the state, and then you may punish them all." Hearing this, the duke
said--"How can such a matter be brought about?" and so they discoursed thereon.

(To be concluded in our next.)

    [6] Lord Byron's conception of Faliero's character and motives
        appears to us to be mistaken; but what is to be said to the
        countless impertinences and ingraftments upon history which
        M. de la Vigne has introduced into his French play on the
        same subject?

    [7] "Marin Falieri, dalla bella moglie, altri la gode, ed egli
        la mantiene."

    [8] This officer was chief of the artisans of the Arsenal, and
        commanded the Bucentaur--for the safety of which, even if an
        accidental storm should arise, he was responsible with his
        life. He mounted guard at the Ducal Palace during an
        interregnum, and bore the red standard before the new doge on
        his inauguration; for which service his perquisites were the
        Ducal Mantle, and the two silver basins from which the doge
        scattered the regulated pittance which he was permitted to
        throw among the people.--Amelot de la Houssaye, 79.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMBRIAN SUPERSTITIONS.

We noticed the preparation of this work at p. 315 of our last volume, and there gave a few
anticipatory extracts. The author is Mr. W. Howells, of Tipton, whose good fortune it has been
to secure a list of Subscribers to his work, of gratifying length and flattering rank. The
origin of the volume is curious enough, and is thus explained in the Preface:

"My inducement for presenting to the public these tales of 'by-gone days' was the advertisement
of the very Rev. Archdeacon Beynon, which appeared in the Carmarthen Journal, of May 21, 1830,
proposing a reward of twenty guineas, with a medal value three guineas, for the best printed
English Essay, 8vo. containing 500 pages, on the Superstitions, Ghosts, Legends, &c. of all
parts of the principality, to be delivered before February 3, 1831. Now when the limited period
proposed for the collection of 500 pages of matter, and the above little adjective all is considered,
it must appear obvious that such an Herculean labour is not capable of being accomplished by
one individual alone.--Imagining it, therefore, to be a matter of impossibility to perform
what the very reverend gentleman requires, I cannot consistently with propriety offer myself
as a candidate, but will say--'Palmam qui meruit ferat.'

"I have had considerable trouble to collect the stories which appear in the work, being also
two years from attaining my majority, and having so short a period to collect them, as the
book is hastily ushered before a discerning public, I trust they will overlook any imperfections
which may appear."

The production of the work is creditable to the enthusiasm of, legally speaking, the infant
author; and we should be happy to learn that our insertion in the Mirror of some of the pieces
in this volume has fostered its growth. We quote an interesting passage on

Fairy Rings.

In the youthful days of an aged friend of mine, the belief in fairies existed in many parts
of Wales; and, when a "schoolboy, with his satchel," unwillingly trudging to school, he has
often observed, in a meadow near Conwil, Carmarthenshire, three small circles of grass, which
appeared to have been weaved round the edges. Wondering much for what purpose they were ordained,
he once asked his mother the use of them, when she gave him a severe injunction not to approach
on any account, much less enter the rings, for, said she, they belong to the Bendith eu mammau
(a species of fairies), and whoever enters them can never get out, it being enchanted ground.

These rings have not only been noticed by the illiterate, but by philosophers and learned characters,
who have advanced two opinions respecting them. Some, among whom are Dr. Priestly and Mr. Jessop,
upon practical and scientific observations, attributed them to lightning, but their experiments
did not prove altogether satisfactory. Drs. Wollaston, Withering, and others, who had duly
examined these spots, ascribed them to the growth of fungi, which opinion seems undoubtedly
the best.--The rings vary in size and shape, some having seven yards of bare, with a patch
of green grass a foot broad in the middle; others, of various sizes, are encompassed with grass
much greener than that in the interior. It is rather remarkable that no beasts will eat of
them, although some persons suppose that sheep will greedily devour the grass.

