November 28th. Thank goodness, it's all safely over, Mother will be home again in a fortnight.
I'm so happy and only now can I realise how horribly anxious I have been. We go every day to
see Mother at the hospital; I wish I could go alone, but we always go all together, that is
either with Father or with Aunt Dora. But I suspect that Dora does go to see Mother quite alone,
she gave herself away to-day about the flowers, she behaves as if Mother were only her mother.
On Thursday, the first time we saw Mother, we all whispered, and Mother cried, although the
operation had made her quite well again. Unfortunately yesterday, Aunt Alma was there when
we were, and Father said that seeing so many people at once was too exciting for Mother, and
we must go away. Of course he really meant that Aunt Alma and Marina had better go away, but
Aunt did not understand or would not. Why on earth did Aunt come? We hardly ever meet since
the trouble about Marina and that jackanapes Erwin; only when there is a family party; Oswald
says it's not a family gathering but a family dispersal because nearly always some one takes
offence.

November 30th. To-day I managed to be alone with Mother. At school I said I had an awfully
bad headache and asked if I might go home before the French lesson; I really had. What I told
Mother was that Frau Doktor Dunker was ill, so we had no lesson. Really one ought not to tell
lies to an invalid, but this was a pious fraud as Hella's mother always calls anything of the
sort, and no one will find out, because Frau Doktor Dunker has nothing to do with the Fourth,
so Dora won't hear anything about it. Mother said she was awfully pleased to be able to see
me alone for once. That absolutely proves that Dora does go alone. Mother was so sweet, and
Sister Klara said she was a perfect angel in goodness and patience. Then I burst out crying
and Mother had to soothe me. At first, after I got home, I did not want to say anything about
it, but when we were putting on our things after dinner to go and see Mother I said en passant
as it were: "This is the second time I shall be seeing Mother to-day." And when Dora said:
What do you mean? I said quite curtly: "One of our lessons did not come off, and so I took
the chance too of being able to see Mother alone." Then she said: Did the porter let you in
without any trouble? It surprises me very much that such very young girls, who are almost children
still, are allowed to go in alone. Luckily Aunt came in at that moment and said: "Oh well,
nobody thinks Gretl quite a child now, and both of you can go alone to the hospital all right."
On the way we did not speak to one another.

December 5th. For St. Nicholas day we took Mother a big flower pot, and tied to the stick was
a label on which Father had written; "Being ill is punishable as an unpermissible offence in
the sense of Section 7 the Mothers' and Housewives' Act." Mother was frightfully amused. The
doctor says she is going on nicely, and that she will be able to come home in a few days.

December 6th. It was awful to-day. In the evening when we were leaving the dining-room Father
said: "Gretl you have forgotten something." And when I came back he took me by the hand and
said: "Why didn't you tell me that you want so much to see Mother alone? You need not make
such a secret of it." And then I burst out crying and said: "Yes, I need not keep it secret
from you, but I don't like Dora to know all about it. Did she tell you what happened the other
day?" But Father does not know anything about my pretended headache, but only that I wanted
so much to see Mother alone. He was awfully kind and kissed and petted me, saying: "You are
a dear little thing, little witch, I hope you always will be." But I got away as quick as I
could, for I felt so ashamed because of my fibbing. If it were not for Dora I'm sure I should
never tell any lies.

December 6th. Father is an angel. He and I went to see Mother in the morning, and Aunt and
Dora went in the afternoon. And since Father had to go into the Cafe where he had an appointment
with a friend, I went on alone to see Mother and he came in afterwards. Mother asked me about
my Christmas wishes; but I told her I had only one wish, that she should get well and live
for ever. I was awfully glad that Dora was not there, for I could never have got that out before
her. Still, she made me tell her my wishes after all, so I said I wanted handerkerchiefs with
"monogram and coronet," visiting cards with von, a satchel like that which most of the girls
in the higher classes have, and the novel Elizabeth Kott. But I am not to have the novel, for
Mother was horrified and said: My darling child, that's not the sort of book for you; who on
earth put that into your head; Ada, I suppose? From what I know of your tastes, it really would
not suit you at all. So I had to give that up, but I'm certain I should not find the book stupid.

December 11th. Mother came home again to-day; we did not know what time she was coming, but
only that it was to be to-day. And because I was so glad that Mother is quite well again, I
sang two or three songs, and Mother said: That is a good omen when one is greeted with a song.
Then Dora was annoyed because she had not thought of singing. We had decorated the whole house
with flowers.

December 15th. I am embroidering a cushion for Mother and Dora is making her a footstool so
that she can sit quite comfortably when she is reading. For Father we have bought a new brief
bag because his own is so shabby that it makes us quite ashamed; but he always says: "It will
do for a good while yet." For a long time I did not know what to get for Aunt Dora, and at
length we have decided upon a lace fichu; for she is awfully fond of lace. I am giving Hella
a sketch book and a pencil case; she draws beautifully and will perhaps become an artist, for
Dora I am getting a vanity bag and for Oswald a cigarette case with a horse's head on it, for
he is frightfully taken up with racing and the turf.

December 16th. Owing to Mother's illness I've had simply no time to write anything about the
school, although there has been a great deal to write about, for example that Prof. W. is very
friendly again, although he no longer gives us lessons, and that most of the girls can't bear
the Nutling because she makes such favourites of the Jewish girls. It's quite true that she
does, for example Franke, who is never any good, will probably get a Praiseworthy in Maths
and Physics; and she lets Weinberger do anything she likes. I always get Excellent both for
school work and prep.; so it really does not matter to me, but Berbenowitsch is frightfully
put out because she is no longer the favourite as she was with Frau Doktor St. The other day
it was quite unpleasant in the Maths lesson. In the answer to a sum there happened to be 1-3,
and then the Nutling asked what 1-3 would be as a decimal fraction; so we went on talking about
recurring [periodic] decimals and every time she used the word period, some of the girls giggled,
but luckily some of them were Jews, and she got perfectly savage and simply screamed at us.
In Frau Doktor St's lesson in the First, some of the girls giggled at the same thing and she
went on just as if she had not noticed it, but afterwards she always spoke of periodic places,
and then one does not think of the real meaning so much. Frau Doktor F. said she should complain
to Frau Doktor M. about our unseemly behaviour. But really all the girls had not giggled, for
ex. Hella and I simply exchanged glances and understood one another at once. I can't endure
that idiotic giggling.

December 20th. Oswald came home to-day; he's fine. It's quite true that he has really had a
moustache for a long time, but was not allowed to grow it at the Gymnasium; in boarding schools
the barber comes every Saturday, and they have to be shaved. He always says that at the Gymnasium
everything manly is simply suppressed. I am so glad I am not a man and need not go to Gymnasium.
Anyhow he has a splendid moustache now. Hella did not recognise him at first and drew back
in alarm, she only knew him after a moment by his voice. We have reckoned it up, and find that
she has not seen him since the Easter before last. At first he called her Fraulein, but her
mother said: Don't be silly. It did not seem silly to me, but most polite!!!

December 23rd. Mother is so delighted that Oswald is home again and he really is awfully nice;
he is giving her a wonderful flowers-of-iron group representing a mountain scene with a forest,
and in the foreground some roe deer as if in a pasture.

December 25th. Only time for a few words. Mother was very well yesterday, and it has not done
her any harm to stay up so long. I am so happy. We both got a tie pin with a sapphire and 3
little diamonds, they have been made out of some earrings which Mother never wears now. But
the nice thing about it is that they are made from her earrings. The satchel and Stifter's
Tales are awfully nice and so are the handkerchiefs with the coronet and everything else. Hella
gave me a reticule with my monogram and the coronet as well. Oswald has given Dora and me small
paperweights and Father a big one, bronze groups. We really need two writing tables, but there
is no room for two. So I am going to arrange the little corner table as my writing table and
have all my things there.

December 27th. At the Bruckners yesterday it was really awful. Hella's mother is perfectly
right; when anyone looks like that she ought not to pay visits when she knows that other people
may be there. Hella told me the day before yesterday how frightfully noticeable it is in her
cousin that she is in an i-- c--! Her mother was very much put out on her account and she wanted
to prevent Emmy's standing up. We were simply disgusted and horrified. But her husband is awfully
gentle with her; She is certainly not pretty and especially the puffiness under her eyes is
horrid. They say that many women look like that when they are pr. She was wearing a maternity
dress, and that gives the whole show away! Hella says that some women look awfully pretty when
they are in an i-- c--, but that some look hideous. I do hope I shall be one of the first kind,
if I ever . . . No, it is really horrible, even if it makes one pretty; when I think of Frau
von Baldner and what she looked like last summer, yet Father has always said she is a a perfect
beauty. Really no one is pretty in an i-- c--. Soon after tea Hella and I went up to her room,
and she said it had really been too much for her and that she could not have stood it much
longer. And we went on talking about it for such a long time, that it really made both of us
nearly ill. On Sunday Emmy and her husband are coming to dine with the Brs., and Hella begged
me to ask her to dinner with us, or she would be quite upset. So of course she is coming here
and thank goodness that will save her from feeling ill. And then she said that I must not think
she wanted to come to us because of Oswald, but only for that other reason. I understand that
perfectly well, and she does not need to make any excuses to me.

29th. Hella came to dinner to-day, she was wearing a new dress, a light strawberry colour,
and it suited her admirably. In the evening Oswald said: "two or three years more, and Hella
will look ripping." It does annoy me so this continual will. Hella's father simply said of
me that I was charming,, and not that idiotic: I was going to become charming. I do hate the
way people always talk out into the future. However, Oswald paid Hella a great deal of attention.
In the afternoon, when Hella and I were talking about him, I wanted to turn the conversation
to Lajos, but she flushed up and said he was utterly false, for since October he had only been
to see them once, on a Sunday, just when they were going to the theatre. Of course he says
he does not care a jot about the visits unless he can see her alone. She can't realise that
that shows the greatness of his love. I understand it perfectly. But it is really monstrous
that Jeno has asked after me only once, quite casually. And he really might have sent me a
card at Christmas. But that's what young men are like. The proverb really applies to them:
Out of sight out of mind.

December 30th. Frau Richter called to-day, but only in the morning for a quarter of an hour.
Not a word was said about Viktor, though I stayed in the drawing-room on purpose. Dora did
not put in an appearance, though I'm sure she was at home. He is extraordinarily like his mother,
he has the same lovely straight nose, and the small mouth and well-cut lips; but he is very
tall and she is quite small half a head shorter than Mother. We owe them a call, but I don't
much think that we shall go.

December 31st. I really have no time, since this is New Year's Eve, but I simply must write.
Dora and I went skating this morning, and we met Viktor on the ice; he went frightfully pale,
saluted, and spoke to us; Dora wished to pass on, but he detained her and said that she must
allow him to have a talk, so he came skating with us since she would not go to a confectioner's
with him. She was certainly quite right not to go to a confectioner's. Of course I don't know
what they talked about, but in the afternoon Dora cried frightfully, and Viktor never said
good-bye to me; it's impossible that he can have forgotten, so either I must have been too
far away at the time, or else Dora did not want him to; most likely the latter. I'm frantically
sorry for him, for he is passionately in love with her. But she won't come to her senses until
it is too late. I don't think she has said a word to Mother either. But all the afternoon she
was playing melancholy music, and that shows how much she had felt it.

January 2nd. Yesterday I had no time to write because we had callers, pretty dull for the most
part, the Listes and the Trobisches; Julie Tr. is such a stupid creature, and I don't believe
she knows the first thing about those matters; Annie is not quite all there, Lotte is the only
tolerable one. Still, since we played round games for prizes, it was not as dull as it might
have been, and Fritz and Rudl are quite nice boys. In the evening Mother was so tired out that
Father said he really must put a stop to all this calling; I can't say I care much myself for
that sort of visits, especially since Dora always will talk about books. People always talk
about such frightfully dull books whenever they have nothing else to say. School began again
to-day, with a German lesson thank goodness. Though I'm not superstitious in general, I must
say I do like a good beginning. Besides, first thing in the morning we met two chimneysweeps,
and without our having tried to arrange it in any way they passed us on our left. That ought
to bring good luck.

January 5th. Most important, Hella since yesterday evening -- -- -- --! She did not come to
school yesterday, for the day before she felt frightfully bad, and her mother really began
to think she was going to have another attack of appendicitis. Instead of that!!! She looks
so ill and interesting, I spent the whole afternoon and evening with her; and at first she
did not want to tell me what was the matter. But when I said I should go away if she did not
tell me, she said: "All right, but you must not make such idiotic faces, and above all you
must not look at me." "Very well," I said, "I won't look, but tell me everything about it."
So then she told me that she had felt frantically bad, as if she was being cut in two, much
worse than after the appendicitis operation, and then she had frantically high fever and shivered
at the same time, all Friday, and yesterday -- -- -- tableau!! And then her mother told her
the chief things, though she knew them already. Earlier on Friday the doctor had said: "Don't
let us be in a hurry to think about a relapse, there may be other!! causes." And then he whispered
to her mother, but Hella caught the word enlighten. Then she knew directly what time of day
it was. She acted the innocent to her mother, as if she knew nothing at all, and her mother
kissed her and said, now you are not a child any more, now you belong among the grown-ups.
How absurd, so I am still a child! After all, on July 30th I shall be 14 too, and at least
one month before I shall have it too, so I shan't be a child for more than six months more.
Hella and I laughed frightfully, but she is really a little puffed up about it; she won't admit
that she is, but I noticed it quite clearly. The only girl I know who did not put on airs when
that happened was Ada. Because of the school Hella is awfully shy, and before her father too.
But her mother has promised her not to tell him. If only one can trust her!!!

January 7th. Hella came to school to-day in spite of everything. I kept on looking at her,
and in the interval she said: "I have told you already that you must not stare at me in that
idiotic way, and this is the second time I've had to speak to you about it. One must not make
a joke about such things." I was not going to stand that. One must not look at her; very well,
in the third lesson I sat turning away from her; then suddenly she hooked one of my feet with
hers so that I nearly burst out laughing, and she said: "Do look round, for that way is even
stupider." Of course Dunker promptly called us to order, that is, she told Hella to go on reading,
but Hella said promptly that she felt very unwell, and that what she had said to me was, she
would have to go home at 12. All the girls looked at one another, for they all know what unwell
means, and Frau Doktor Dunker said Hella had better leave directly, but she answered in French--that
pleases Dunker awfully--that she would rather stay till the end of the lesson. It was simply
splendid!

January 12th. We went to the People's Theatre to-day to the matinee of The Fourth Commandment.
The parting from the grandmother was lovely; almost everyone was in tears. I managed to keep
from crying because Dora was only two places from me, and so did Hella, probably for the same
reason. Anyway she was not paying much attention to the play for in the main interval Lajos,
who had been in the stalls, came up and said how d'you do to Hella and her mother. He wanted
to go home with them after the performance. Jeno has mumps, it is a horrid sort of illness
and if I had it I should never admit it. Those illnesses in which one is swelled up are the
nastiest of all. The Sunday after next Lajos and Jeno have been invited to the Brs. and of
course they asked me too, I am so glad.

