Introversion is continually connected with regression. Regression, as may be recalled from
the 2d section of Part I, is a harking back to more primitive psychic activities, from thinking
to gazing, from doing to hallucinating; a striving back towards childhood and the pleasures
of childhood. Introversion accordingly is accompanied by a desire for symbolic form of expression
(the mystical education is carried on in symbols), and causes the infantile imagos to revive—chiefly
the mother image. It was pre-eminently father and mother who appeared as objects of childish
love, as well as of defiance. They are unique and imperishable, and in the life of adults there
is no difficulty in reawakening and making active those memories and those imagos. We easily
comprehend the fact that the symbolic aim of the previously mentioned katabasis always has
a maternal character; earth, hole, sea, belly of fish, etc., that all are symbols for mother
and womb. Regression revives the Œdipus complex with its thoughts of incest, etc. Regression
leads back to all these relics now done away with in life and repressed. It actually leads
into a sort of underworld, into the world of titanic wishes, as I have called them. How far
this was the case in the alchemistic parable, I have fully shown in the psychoanalytic treatment
of it. Here I need merely to refer to the maternal nature of the symbols cited: receptacle,
mercury of the sages (“mother of metals”) and radical moisture, also called “milk” and the like.

Fairy tales have frequently a very pretty functional symbolism for the way in which introversion
leads to the mother imago. Thus the simpleton in the fairy tale of the feathers comes through
the gate of introversion exactly into the family circle, to the mother that cares for him.
There his love finds its satisfaction. There he even gets a daughter, replica of the mother
imago, for a wife.

In the parable the wandering in the forest (introversion) is followed by the battle (suggestive
of incest) with the lion (father or mother in their awe inspiring form); the inclusion in the
receptacle (introversion) by the accomplishment of the incest.

If it is now clear also that in introversion, as a result of the regression that is connected
with it, visions of “titanic” emotions (incest, separating of parents, etc.) are encountered,
yet it has not become in the slightest degree comprehensible how these visions are related
to the treatment of anagogic ideas. And that is indeed the question.

We can really understand these striking facts better if we recall what I have said above about
the type formation and the intro-determination of the symbols, namely, that symbols can depart
from their original narrower meaning and become types for an entire class of experiences whereby
an advance is made from the material to the functional meaning. Some examples will elucidate this.

I have observed particularly fine cases of intro-determination in a series of experiments in
basin divination (lecanomancy) which I have carried on for several years. Lecanomancy resembles
crystal gazing, except that the gazer looks into a basin of water. In the visions of my subject,
Lea, typical forms were pictured, which always recurred. Regarded as symbols they were, as
subsequent analysis showed, almost all subjected to inward accentuation or intro-determination.
Thus, for instance, a black cat appeared. At first it appeared as representative of Lea’s grandmother,
who was cat-like, malicious and fawning. Later the cat stood for the corresponding traits that
she perceived in herself. Above all the cat is the symbol of her grandmother, so the grandmother
(or cat) is a mental current of Lea. Frequently there appears in the image a Dyas, sometimes
in the shape of a two-headed snake, of two hands, of two feet, or of a woman with two faces,
etc. Above all, every antithesis appears to have some external meaning, two men who love each
other, etc. So it becomes clear that the common element which finds its most pregnant expression
in the double faced woman is the Dyas in itself and that it means bisexuality, psychic hermaphroditism.
More than that it is definitely certain that the deepest sense of the symbol means a complete
dissociation of Lea’s character into two different personalities, one of which may be called
the savage and the other the mild. (Lea herself uses the expressions cynical and ideal personality.)
In one of the later experiments Lea saw her cynic double vividly personified and spoke in this
character, which is closely related to the “black cat.” The Dyas in the symbols has the value
first of a representation of externals (two lovers, etc.), then as symbols of bisexuality.
The sexual Dyas can again be conceived as a symbol or characteristic of a still more general
and comprehensive dissociation of the ego. A further symbol and one still more tending towards
intro-determination was death. Starting from connections with definite external experiences
and ideas of actual death, the meaning of the symbol became more and more spiritual, till it
reached the meaning of the fading away of psychic impulses. What died symbolically or had to
die was represented by an old man who sacrificed himself after suffering all kinds of fortune.
The dying of this old man signified, as analysis showed, the same thing that we call the “putting
off the old Adam” (turning over a new leaf). The figure of the old man, originally Lea’s grandfather,
then her father, came to have this meaning only after a long process of intro-determination.

A few more examples for typical figures.

In many dreams of a woman analyzed by me (Pauline, in my treatise Zur Symbolbildung), a cow
appears as a typical image. The alternation of this cow with more or less definite mother symbols
leads to identification of the cow with the mother. Two circumstantial dreams that were fully
analyzed showed, however, that the cow and other forms with which she alternated cannot be
translated so correctly by the concept of mother as by that of the maternal authority and finally
still more correctly by self-criticism or conscience, of which maternal authority is but a
type. Children figure in Pauline’s case as a result of various experiences, as typical of obstacles.

In the case of another dreamer the father stands in similar relation as the determinant that
paralyzes his resolutions.

The climbing of an ascent, usually a symbol of coitus (hurrying upward which makes us out of
breath), turns out often in a deeper relation as the effort to get from the disagreeable things
of life to a place of retreat (lonely attics, etc.), inaccessible to other persons (= thoughts);
and now we see that this deeper meaning appears without prejudice to the first, for even coitus,
like all transport, is only a special case of flight from the outer life, one of the forms
of spiritual oblivion. Hence in part the mythologically and psychopathologically important
comparison of intoxication, intoxicating drink and sperm, soma and semen. Ascent = coitus is
in this case a type for a quite comprehensive class of experience.

Marcinowski found in his analyses that the father in dream life often was a “symbol of an outlived,
obsolete attitude.” (Z. Bl. f. Ps., II, 9.)

Other examples of types are the phallus, the sun and other religiously revered objects, if
we regard them as does Jung (Wandl. u. Sym., Jb. ps. F., III-IV) as a symbol of the libido.
[The concept of which is extended by Jung almost to Schopenhauer’s Will.] The typical character
of divine personalities is moreover quite clearly emphasized by Jung himself.

