4. The rational spirit, mind, soul (Latin animus), generally opposed to the body or animal
(disposition) spirit. 1 Thessalonians v, 23; 1 Corinthians xiv, 14.

5. It implies will, council, purpose. Matthew xxvi, 41; Mark xiv, 38; Acts xviii, 5; xix, 21;
1 Chronicles v, 26; Ezra i, 1.

6. It includes the understanding, intellect. Mark ii, 8; Luke i, 80, and ii, 40; 1 Corinthians
ii, 11, 12; Exodus xxviii, 3; Job xx, 3; Isaiah xxix, 24.

7. A spirit, that is, a simple, incorporeal, immaterial being, possessing higher capacities
than man in his present state. Of created spirits, the human spirit, soul, after its departure
from the body and as existing in a separate state. Hebrews xii, 23; that is, to the spirits
of just men made perfect. Robinson renders it thus: “To the spirits of the just advanced to
perfect happiness and glory.”

It is spoken of God in reference to his immateriality. John, iv, 24. Of Christ in his exalted
spiritual nature in distinction from his human nature. In Hebrews, ix, 14, in contrast with
perishable nature. “The eternal spirit,” Holy spirit, spirit of God.—Robinson’s Lexicon.

From all this it will be seen that it is impossible to limit the term spirit to its ancient
physical currency. Our term mind is, for two reasons, a better word for its place in modern
literature. First, it never had a physical application. Second, the terms are used indifferently
in the New Testament when they relate to man. See Romans, i, 9 and vii, 25. All spirits are
one in kind; in character the difference lies; that is, spirits are all imperishable. It is
not in the nature of a spirit to cease to be. If it is, then there is no imperishable nature
that is revealed to man. I submit for consideration the thought that there is no difference
in the final results between the man who denies the existence of spirits altogether and the
man who allows that spirits may cease to exist.

“We are cognizant of the existence of spirit by our direct consciousness of feelings, desires
and ideas, which are to us the most certain of all realities.”—Carpenter.

“The body continually requires new materials and a continued action of external agencies. But
the mind, when it has been once called into activity and has become stored with ideas, may
remain active and may develop new relations and combinations among these, after the complete
closure of the sensorial inlets by which new ideas can be excited ‘ab externo.’ Such, in fact,
is what is continually going on in the state of dreaming.... The mind thus feeds upon the store
of ideas which it has laid up during the activity of the sensory organs, and those impressions
which it retains in its consciousness are working up into a never ending variety of combinations
and successions of ideas, thus affording new sources of mental activity even to the very end
of life.”—Carpenter.

In death the spirit returns to God, who gave it, retaining, doubtless, all its store of ideas
and all its own inherent activities, which will continue while eternity endures.

OUR RELATIONS TO THE ANCIENT LAW AND PROPHETS—WHAT ARE THEY?

The above questions can not be answered intelligently without a knowledge of the character
of the law, and of its relations to humanity, as well as a knowledge of the relations of the
ancient prophets. The law given at Sinai as a “covenant,” with all the laws contained in the
“Book of the Law,” was political in character; that is to say, it pertained to a community
or nation. Such law is always political in its character. The ancient law pertained to the
nation of the Jews. It was given to them as a community, and to no other people.

The law or covenant, as written upon the two tables of stone, is given in full in one place,
and only one, in all the book of the law, and I will now transcribe it from the fifth chapter
of Deut.

