I went on with the hunting surveyor at Banagher for three years, during which, at Kingstown,
the watering place near Dublin, I met Rose Heseltine, the lady who has since become my wife.
The engagement took place when I had been just one year in Ireland; but there was still a delay
of two years before we could be married.  She had no fortune, nor had I any income beyond that
which came from the Post Office; and there were still a few debts, which would have been paid
off no doubt sooner, but for that purchase of the horse. When I had been nearly three years
in Ireland we were married on the 11th of June, 1844;--and, perhaps, I ought to name that happy
day as the commencement of my better life, rather than the day on which I first landed in Ireland.

For though during these three years I had been jolly enough, I had not been altogether happy.
The hunting, the whisky punch, the rattling Irish life,--of which I could write a volume of
stories were this the place to tell them,--were continually driving from my mind the still
cherished determination to become a writer of novels. When I reached Ireland I had never put
pen to paper; nor had I done so when I became engaged.  And when I was married, being then
twenty-nine, I had only written the first volume of my first work. This constant putting off
of the day of work was a great sorrow to me. I certainly had not been idle in my new berth.
I had learned my work, so that every one concerned knew that it was safe in my hands; and I
held a position altogether the reverse of that in which I was always trembling while I remained
in London. But that did not suffice,--did not nearly suffice. I still felt that there might
be a career before me, if I could only bring myself to begin the work. I do not think I much
doubted my own intellectual sufficiency for the writing of a readable novel. What I did doubt
was my own industry, and the chances of the market.

The vigour necessary to prosecute two professions at the same time is not given to every one,
and it was only lately that I had found the vigour necessary for one. There must be early hours,
and I had not as yet learned to love early hours. I was still, indeed, a young man; but hardly
young enough to trust myself to find the power to alter the habits of my life. And I had heard
of the difficulties of publishing,--a subject of which I shall have to say much should I ever
bring this memoir to a close. I had dealt already with publishers on my mother's behalf, and
knew that many a tyro who could fill a manuscript lacked the power to put his matter before
the public;--and I knew, too, that when the matter was printed, how little had then been done
towards the winning of the battle! I had already learned that many a book--many a good book--

                    "is born to blush unseen
     And waste its sweetness on the desert air."

But still the purpose was strong within me, and the first effort was made after the following
fashion. I was located at a little town called Drumsna, or rather village, in the county Leitrim,
where the postmaster had come to some sorrow about his money; and my friend John Merivale was
staying with me for a day or two. As we were taking a walk in that most uninteresting country,
we turned up through a deserted gateway, along a weedy, grass-grown avenue, till we came to
the modern ruins of a country house. It was one of the most melancholy spots I ever visited.
I will not describe it here, because I have done so in the first chapter of my first novel.
We wandered about the place, suggesting to each other causes for the misery we saw there, and,
while I was still among the ruined walls and decayed beams, I fabricated the plot of The Macdermots
of Ballycloran. As to the plot itself, I do not know that I ever made one so good,--or, at
any rate, one so susceptible of pathos. I am aware that I broke down in the telling, not having
yet studied the art.  Nevertheless, The Macdermots is a good novel, and worth reading by any
one who wishes to understand what Irish life was before the potato disease, the famine, and
the Encumbered Estates Bill.

When my friend left me, I set to work and wrote the first chapter or two. Up to this time I
had continued that practice of castle-building of which I have spoken; but now the castle I
built was among the ruins of that old house. The book, however, hung with me.  It was only
now and then that I found either time or energy for a few pages. I commenced the book in September,
1843, and had only written a volume when I was married in June, 1844.

My marriage was like the marriage of other people, and of no special interest to any one except
my wife and me. It took place at Rotherham, in Yorkshire, where her father was the manager
of a bank. We were not very rich, having about (pounds)400 a year on which to live.

Many people would say that we were two fools to encounter such poverty together. I can only
reply that since that day I have never been without money in my pocket, and that I soon acquired
the means of paying what I owed. Nevertheless, more than twelve years had to pass over our
heads before I received any payment for any literary work which afforded an appreciable increase
to our income.

Immediately after our marriage, I left the west of Ireland and the hunting surveyor, and joined
another in the south. It was a better district, and I was enabled to live at Clonmel, a town
of some importance, instead of at Banagher, which is little more than a village. I had not
felt myself to be comfortable in my old residence as a married man. On my arrival there as
a bachelor I had been received most kindly, but when I brought my English wife I fancied that
there was a feeling that I had behaved badly to Ireland generally.  When a young man has been
received hospitably in an Irish circle, I will not say that it is expected of him that he should
marry some young lady in that society;--but it certainly is expected of him that he shall not
marry any young lady out of it. I had given offence, and I was made to feel it.

There has taken place a great change in Ireland since the days in which I lived at Banagher,
and a change so much for the better, that I have sometimes wondered at the obduracy with which
people have spoken of the permanent ill condition of the country.  Wages are now nearly double
what they were then.  The Post Office, at any rate, is paying almost double for its rural labour,--9s.
a week when it used to pay 5s., and 12s. a week when it used to pay 7s. Banks have sprung up
in almost every village. Rents are paid with more than English punctuality. And the religious
enmity between the classes, though it is not yet dead, is dying out. Soon after I reached Banagher
in 1841, I dined one evening with a Roman Catholic. I was informed next day by a Protestant
gentleman who had been very hospitable to me that I must choose my party. I could not sit both
at Protestant and Catholic tables. Such a caution would now be impossible in any part of Ireland.
Home-rule, no doubt, is a nuisance,--and especially a nuisance because the professors of the
doctrine do not at all believe it themselves. There are probably no other twenty men in England
or Ireland who would be so utterly dumfounded and prostrated were Home-rule to have its way
as the twenty Irish members who profess to support it in the House of Commons. But it is not
to be expected that nuisances such as these should be abolished at a blow. Home-rule is, at
any rate, better and more easily managed than the rebellion at the close of the last century;
it is better than the treachery of the Union; less troublesome than O'Connell's monster meetings;
less dangerous than Smith O'Brien and the battle of the cabbage-garden at Ballingary, and very
much less bloody than Fenianism. The descent from O'Connell to Mr. Butt has been the natural
declension of a political disease, which we had no right to hope would be cured by any one remedy.

When I had been married a year my first novel was finished. In July, 1845, I took it with me
to the north of England, and intrusted the MS. to my mother to do with it the best she could
among the publishers in London. No one had read it but my wife; nor, as far as I am aware,
has any other friend of mine ever read a word of my writing before it was printed. She, I think,
has so read almost everything, to my very great advantage in matters of taste. I am sure I
have never asked a friend to read a line; nor have I ever read a word of my own writing aloud,--even
to her. With one exception,--which shall be mentioned as I come to it,--I have never consulted
a friend as to a plot, or spoken to any one of the work I have been doing. My first manuscript
I gave up to my mother, agreeing with her that it would be as well that she should not look
at it before she gave it to a publisher. I knew that she did not give me credit for the sort
of cleverness necessary for such work. I could see in the faces and hear in the voices of those
of my friends who were around me at the house in Cumberland,--my mother, my sister, my brother-in-law,
and, I think, my brother,--that they had not expected me to come out as one of the family authors.
There were three or four in the field before me, and it seemed to be almost absurd that another
should wish to add himself to the number. My father had written much,--those long ecclesiastical
descriptions,--quite unsuccessfully. My mother had become one of the popular authors of the
day. My brother had commenced, and had been fairly well paid for his work. My sister, Mrs.
Tilley, had also written a novel, which was at the time in manuscript--which was published
afterwards without her name, and was called Chollerton.  I could perceive that this attempt
of mine was felt to be an unfortunate aggravation of the disease.

My mother, however, did the best she could for me, and soon reported that Mr. Newby, of Mortimer
Street, was to publish the book. It was to be printed at his expense, and he was to give me
half the profits. Half the profits! Many a young author expects much from such an undertaking.
I can, with truth, declare that I expected nothing. And I got nothing. Nor did I expect fame,
or even acknowledgment. I was sure that the book would fail, and it did fail most absolutely.
I never heard of a person reading it in those days. If there was any notice taken of it by
any critic of the day, I did not see it. I never asked any questions about it, or wrote a single
letter on the subject to the publisher. I have Mr. Newby's agreement with me, in duplicate,
and one or two preliminary notes; but beyond that I did not have a word from Mr. Newby. I am
sure that he did not wrong me in that he paid me nothing. It is probable that he did not sell
fifty copies of the work;--but of what he did sell he gave me no account.

I do not remember that I felt in any way disappointed or hurt. I am quite sure that no word
of complaint passed my lips. I think I may say that after the publication I never said a word
about the book, even to my wife. The fact that I had written and published it, and that I was
writing another, did not in the least interfere with my life, or with my determination to make
the best I could of the Post Office. In Ireland, I think that no one knew that I had written
a novel. But I went on writing. The Macdermots was published in 1847, and The Kellys and the
O'Kellys followed in 1848.  I changed my publisher, but did not change my fortune.  This second
Irish story was sent into the world by Mr.  Colburn, who had long been my mother's publisher,
who reigned in Great Marlborough Street, and I believe created the business which is now carried
on by Messrs.  Hurst & Blackett. He had previously been in partnership with Mr. Bentley in
New Burlington Street. I made the same agreement as before as to half profits, and with precisely
the same results. The book was not only not read, but was never heard of,--at any rate, in
Ireland. And yet it is a good Irish story, much inferior to The Macdermots as to plot, but
superior in the mode of telling. Again I held my tongue, and not only said nothing but felt
nothing. Any success would, I think, have carried me off my legs, but I was altogether prepared
for failure. Though I thoroughly enjoyed the writing of these books, I did not imagine, when
the time came for publishing them, that any one would condescend to read them.

But in reference to The O'Kellys there arose a circumstance which set my mind to work on a
subject which has exercised it much ever since. I made my first acquaintance with criticism.
A dear friend of mine to whom the book had been sent,--as have all my books,--wrote me word
to Ireland that he had been dining at some club with a man high in authority among the gods
of the Times newspaper, and that this special god had almost promised that The O'Kellys should
be noticed in that most influential of "organs." The information moved me very much; but it
set me thinking whether the notice, should it ever appear, would not have been more valuable,
at any rate, more honest, if it had been produced by other means;--if, for instance, the writer
of the notice had been instigated by the merits or demerits of the book instead of by the friendship
of a friend. And I made up my mind then that, should I continue this trade of authorship, I
would have no dealings with any critic on my own behalf. I would neither ask for nor deplore
criticism, nor would I ever thank a critic for praise, or quarrel with him, even in my own
heart, for censure. To this rule I have adhered with absolute strictness, and this rule I would
recommend to all young authors. What can be got by touting among the critics is never worth
the ignominy. The same may, of course, be said of all things acquired by ignominious means.
But in this matter it is so easy to fall into the dirt. Facilis descensus Averni. There seems
to be but little fault in suggesting to a friend that a few words in this or that journal would
be of service. But any praise so obtained must be an injustice to the public, for whose instruction,
and not for the sustentation of the author, such notices are intended. And from such mild suggestion
the descent to crawling at the critic's feet, to the sending of presents, and at last to a
mutual understanding between critics and criticised, is only too easy.  Other evils follow,
for the denouncing of which this is hardly the place;--though I trust I may find such place
before my work is finished. I took no notice of my friend's letter, but I was not the less
careful in watching The Times. At last the review came,--a real review in The Times. I learned
it by heart, and can now give, if not the words, the exact purport. "Of The Kellys and the
O'Kellys we may say what the master said to his footman, when the man complained of the constant
supply of legs of mutton on the kitchen table. Well, John, legs of mutton are good, substantial
food;' and we may say also what John replied: 'Substantial, sir,--yes, they are substantial,
but a little coarse.'" That was the review, and even that did not sell the book!

From Mr. Colburn I did receive an account, showing that 375 copies of the book had been printed,
that 140 had been sold,--to those, I presume, who liked substantial food though it was coarse,--and
that he had incurred a loss of (pounds)63 19S. 1 1/2d. The truth of the account I never for
a moment doubted; nor did I doubt the wisdom of the advice given to me in the following letter,
though I never thought of obeying it--

                        "GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET,
                             November 11, 1848.

"MY DEAR SIR,--I am sorry to say that absence from town and other circumstances have prevented
me from earlier inquiring into the results of the sale of The Kellys and the O'Kellys, with
which the greatest efforts have been used, but in vain. The sale has been, I regret to say,
so small that the loss upon the publication is very considerable; and it appears clear to me
that, although in consequence of the great number of novels that are published, the sale of
each, with some few exceptions, must be small, yet it is evident that readers do not like novels
on Irish subjects as well as on others.  Thus, you will perceive, it is impossible for me to
give any encouragement to you to proceed in novel-writing.

"As, however, I understand you have nearly finished the novel La Vendee, perhaps you will favour
me with a sight of it when convenient.--I remain, etc., etc.,

                                    "H. COLBURN."

This, though not strictly logical, was a rational letter, telling a plain truth plainly. I
did not like the assurance that "the greatest efforts had been used," thinking that any efforts
which might be made for the popularity of a book ought to have come from the author;--but I
took in good part Mr. Colburn's assurance that he could not encourage me in the career I had
commenced.  I would have bet twenty to one against my own success. But by continuing I could
lose only pen and paper; and if the one chance in twenty did turn up in my favour, then how
much might I win!

CHAPTER V

MY FIRST SUCCESS

1849-1855

I had at once gone to work on a third novel, and had nearly completed it, when I was informed
of the absolute failure of the former. I find, however, that the agreement for its publication
was not made till 1850, by which time I imagine that Mr. Colburn must have forgotten the disastrous
result of The O'Kellys, as he thereby agrees to give me (pounds)20 down for my "new historical
novel, to be called La Vendee." He agreed also to pay me (pounds)30 more when he had sold 350
copies, and (pounds)50 more should he sell 450 within six months. I got my (pounds)20, and
then heard no more of (pounds)a Vendee, not even receiving any account. Perhaps the historical
title had appeared more alluring to him than an Irish subject; though it was not long afterwards
that I received a warning from the very same house of business against historical novels,--as
I will tell at length when the proper time comes.

I have no doubt that the result of the sale of this story was no better than that of the two
that had gone before. I asked no questions, however, and to this day have received no information.
The story is certainly inferior to those which had gone before;--chiefly because I knew accurately
the life of the people in Ireland, and knew, in truth, nothing of life in the La Vendee country,
and also because the facts of the present time came more within the limits of my powers of
story-telling than those of past years. But I read the book the other day, and am not ashamed
of it. The conception as to the feeling of the people is, I think, true; the characters are
distinct, and the tale is not dull. As far as I can remember, this morsel of criticism is the
only one that was ever written on the book.

I had, however, received (pounds)20. Alas! alas! years were to roll by before I should earn
by my pen another shilling. And, indeed, I was well aware that I had not earned that; but that
the money had been "talked out of" the worthy publisher by the earnestness of my brother, who
made the bargain for me. I have known very much of publishers and have been surprised by much
in their mode of business,--by the apparent lavishness and by the apparent hardness to authors
in the same men,--but by nothing so much as by the ease with which they can occasionally be
persuaded to throw away small sums of money. If you will only make the payment future instead
of present, you may generally twist a few pounds in your own or your client's favour.  "You
might as well promise her (pounds)20. This day six months will do very well." The publisher,
though he knows that the money will never come back to him, thinks it worth his while to rid
himself of your importunity at so cheap a price.

But while I was writing La Vendee I made a literary attempt in another direction. In 1847 and
1848 there had come upon Ireland the desolation and destruction, first of the famine, and then
of the pestilence which succeeded the famine. It was my duty at that time to be travelling
constantly in those parts of Ireland in which the misery and troubles thence arising were,
perhaps, at their worst. The western parts of Cork, Kerry, and Clare were pre-eminently unfortunate.
The efforts,--I may say, the successful efforts,--made by the Government to stay the hands
of death will still be in the remembrance of many:--how Sir Robert Peel was instigated to repeal
the Corn Laws; and how, subsequently, Lord John Russell took measures for employing the people,
and supplying the country with Indian corn. The expediency of these latter measures was questioned
by many. The people themselves wished, of course, to be fed without working; and the gentry,
who were mainly responsible for the rates, were disposed to think that the management of affairs
was taken too much out of their own hands. My mind at the time was busy with the matter, and,
thinking that the Government was right, I was inclined to defend them as far as my small powers
went. S. G. O. (Lord Sydney Godolphin Osborne) was at that time denouncing the Irish scheme
of the Administration in the Times, using very strong language,--as those who remember his
style will know. I fancied then,--as I still think,--that I understood the country much better
than he did; and I was anxious to show that the steps taken for mitigating the terrible evil
of the times were the best which the Minister of the day could have adopted. In 1848 I was
in London, and, full of my purpose, I presented myself to Mr. John Forster,--who has since
been an intimate and valued friend,--but who was at that time the editor of the Examiner. I
think that that portion of the literary world which understands the fabrication of newspapers
will admit that neither before his time, nor since, has there been a more capable editor of
a weekly newspaper. As a literary man, he was not without his faults. That which the cabman
is reported to have said of him before the magistrate is quite true. He was always "an arbitrary
cove." As a critic, he belonged to the school of Bentley and Gifford,--who would always bray
in a literary mortar all critics who disagreed from them, as though such disagreement were
a personal offence requiring personal castigation. But that very eagerness made him a good
editor. Into whatever he did he put his very heart and soul. During his time the Examiner was
almost all that a Liberal weekly paper should be.  So to John Forster I went, and was shown
into that room in Lincoln's Inn Fields in which, some three or four years earlier, Dickens
had given that reading of which there is an illustration with portraits in the second volume
of his life.

