The world has, unhappily, lost the work of Berosus, the Babylonish priest, who, under the Seleucidæ,
did for Chaldæa what Manetho was doing almost at the same moment for Egypt.[34] Berosus compiled
the history of Chaldæa from the national chronicles and traditions. The loss of his work is
still more to be lamented than that of Manetho. The wedges may never, perhaps, be read with
as much certainty as the hieroglyphs; the remains of Chaldæo-Assyrian antiquity are much less
copious and well preserved than those of the Egyptian civilization, while the gap in the existing
documents are more frequent and of a different character. And yet much precious information,
especially in these latter days, has been drawn from those fragments of his work which have
come down to us. In one of these we find the following evidence as to the mixture of races:
"At first there were at Babylon a great number of men belonging to the different nationalities
that colonized Chaldæa."[35]

How far did that diversity go? The terms used by Berosus are vague enough, while the Hebraic
tradition seems to have preserved the memory of only two races who lived one after the other
in Chaldæa, namely, the Kushites and the Shemites. And may not these groups, though distinct,
have been more closely connected than the Jews were willing to admit? We know how bitterly
the Jews hated those Canaanitish races against whom they waged their long and destructive wars;
and it is possible that, in order to mark the separation between themselves and their abhorred
enemies, they may have shut their eyes to the exaggeration of the distance between the two
peoples. More than one historian is inclined to believe that the Kushites and Shemites were
less distantly related than the Hebrew writers pretend. Almost every day criticism discovers
new points of resemblance between the Jews before the captivity and certain of their neighbours,
such as the Phoenicians. Almost the same language was spoken by each; each had the same arts
and the same symbols, while many rites and customs were common to both. Baal and Moloch were
adored in Judah and Israel as well as in Tyre and Sidon. This is not the proper place to discuss
such a question, but, whatever view we may take of it, it seems that the researches of Assyriologists
have led to the following conclusion: That primitive Chaldæa received and retained various
ethnic elements upon its fertile soil; that those elements in time became fused together, and
that, even in the beginning, the diversities that distinguished them one from another were
less marked than a literal acceptance of the tenth chapter of Genesis might lead us to believe.

We cannot here undertake to explain all the conjectures to which this point has given rise.
We are without some, at least, of the qualifications necessary for the due appreciation of
the proofs, or rather of the probabilities, which are relied on by the exponents of this or
that hypothesis. We must refer curious readers to the works of contemporary Assyriologists;
or they may, if they will, find all the chief facts brought together in the writings of MM.
Maspero and François Lenormant, whom we shall often have occasion to quote.[36] We shall be
content with giving, in as few words as possible, the theory which appears at present to be
generally admitted.

There is no doubt as to the presence in Chaldæa of the Kushite tribes. It is the Kushites,
as represented by Nimrod, who are mentioned in Genesis before any of the others; a piece of
evidence which is indirectly confirmed by the nomenclature of the Greek writers. They often
employed the terms Kissaioi and Kissioi to denote the peoples who belonged to this very part
of Asia,[37] terms under which it is easy to recognize imperfect transliterations of a name
that began its last syllable in the Semitic tongues with the sound we render by sh. As the
Greeks had no letters corresponding to our h and j, they had to do the best they could with
breathings. Their descendants had to make the same shifts when they became subject to the Turks,
and had to express every word of their conqueror's language without possessing any signs for
those sounds of sh and j in which it abounded.

The same vocable is preserved to our day in the name borne by one of the provinces of Persia,
Khouzistan. The objection that the Kissaioi or Kissioi of the classic writers and poets were
placed in Susiana rather than in Chaldæa will no longer be made. Susiana borders upon Chaldæa
and belongs, like it, to the basin of the Tigris. There is no natural frontier between the
two countries, which were closely connected both in peace and war. On the other hand, the name
of Ethiopians, often applied by the same authors to the dwellers upon the Persian Gulf and
the Sea of Oman, recalls the relationship which attached the Kushites of Asia to those of Africa
in the Hebrew genealogies.

We have still stronger reasons of the same kind for affirming that the Shemites or Semites
occupied an important place in Chaldæa from the very beginning. Linguistic knowledge here comes
to the aid of the biblical narrative and confirms its ethnographical data. The language in
which most of our cuneiform inscriptions are written, the language, that is, that we call Assyrian,
is closely allied to the Hebrew. Towards the period of the second Chaldee Empire, another dialect
of the same family, the Aramaic, seems to have been in common use from one end of Mesopotamia
to the other. A comparative study of the rites and religious beliefs of the Semitic races would
lead us to the same result. Finally, there is something very significant in the facility with
which classic writers confuse such terms as Chaldæans, Assyrians, and Syrians; it would seem
that they recognized but one people between the Isthmus of Suez on the south and the Taurus
on the north, between the seaboard of Phoenicia on the west and the table lands of Iran in
the east. In our day the dominant language over the whole of the vast extent of territory which
is inclosed by those boundaries is Arabic, as it was Syriac during the early centuries of our
era, and Aramaic under the Persians and the successors of Alexander. From the commencement
of historic times the Semitic element has never ceased to play the chief rôle from one end
of that region to the other. For Syria proper, its pre-eminence is attested by a number of
facts which leave no room for doubt. Travellers and historians classed the inhabitants of Mesopotamia
with those of Phoenicia and Palestine, because, to their unaccustomed ears, the differences
between their languages were hardly perceptible, while their personal characteristics were
practically identical. Such affinities and resemblances are only to be explained by a common
origin, though the point of junction may have been distant.

It has also been asserted that an Aryan element helped to compose the population of primitive
Chaldæa, that sister tribes to those of India and Persia, Armenia and Asia Minor furnished
their contingents to the mixed population of Shinar. Some have even declared that a time came
when those tribes obtained the chief power. It may have been so, but the evidence upon which
the hypothesis rests is very slight. Granting that the Aryans did settle in Chaldæa, they were
certainly far less numerous than the other colonists, and were so rapidly absorbed into the
ranks of the majority that neither history nor language has preserved any sensible trace of
their existence. We may therefore leave them out of the argument until fresh evidence is forthcoming.

But the students of the inscriptions had another, and, if we accept the theories of MM. Oppert
and François Lenormant, a better-founded, surprise in store for us. It seemed improbable that
science would ever succeed in mounting beyond those remote tribes, the immediate descendants
of Kush and Shem, who occupied Chaldæa at the dawn of history; they formed, to all appearance,
the most distant background, the deepest stratum, to which the historian could hope to penetrate;
and yet, when the most ancient epigraphic texts began to yield up their secrets, the interpreters
were confronted, as they assure us, with this startling fact: the earliest language spoken,
or, at least, written, in that country, belonged neither to the Aryan nor to the Semitic family,
nor even to those African languages among which the ancient idiom of Egypt has sometimes been
placed; it was, in an extreme degree, what we now call an agglutinative language. By its grammatical
system and by some elements of its vocabulary it suggests a comparison with Finnish, Turkish,
and kindred tongues.

Other indications, such as the social and religious conditions revealed by the texts, have
combined with these characteristics to convince our Assyriologists that the first dwellers
in Chaldæa--the first, that is, who made any attempt at civilization--were Turanians, were
part of that great family of peoples who still inhabit the north of Europe and Asia, from the
marshes of the Baltic to the banks of the Amoor and the shores of the Pacific Ocean.[38] The
languages of all those peoples, though various enough, had certain features in common. No one
of them reached the delicate and complex mechanism of internal and terminal inflexion; they
were guiltless of the subtle processes by which Aryans and Semites expressed the finest shades
of thought, and, by declining the substantive and conjugating the verb, subordinated the secondary
to the principal idea; they did not understand how to unite, in an intimate and organic fashion,
the root to its qualifications and determinatives, to the adjectives and phrases which give
colour to a word, and indicate the precise rôle it has to play in the sentence in which it
is used. These languages resemble each other chiefly in their lacunæ. Compare them in the dictionaries
and they seem very different, especially if we take two, such as Finnish and Chinese, that
are separated by the whole width of a continent.

It is the same with their physical types. Certain tribes whom we place in the Turanian group
have all the distinctive characteristics of the white races. Others are hardly to be distinguished
from the yellow nations. Between these two extremes there are numerous varieties which carry
us, without any abrupt transition, from the most perfect European to the most complete Chinese
type.[39] In the Aryan family the ties of blood are perceptible even between the most divergent
branches. By a comparative study of their languages, traditions, and religious conceptions,
it has been proved that the Hindoos upon the Ganges, the Germans on the Rhine, and the Celts
upon the Loire, are all offshoots of a single stem. Among the Turanians the connections between
one race and another are only perceptible in the case of tribes living in close neighbourhood
to one another, who have had mutual relations over a long course of years. In such a case the
natural affinities are easily seen, and a family of peoples can be established with certainty.
The classification is less definitely marked and clearly divided than that of the Aryan and
Semitic families; but, nevertheless, it has a real value for the historian.[40]

According to the doctrine which now seems most widely accepted, it was from the crowded ranks
of the immense army which peopled the north that the tribes who first attempted a civilized
life in the plains of Shinar and the fertile slopes between the mountains and the left bank
of the Tigris, were thrown off. It is thought that these tribes already possessed a national
constitution, a religion, and a system of legislation, the art of writing and the most essential
industries, when they first took possession of the lands in question.[41] A tradition still
current among the eastern Turks puts the cradle of the race in the valleys of the Altaï, north
of the plateau of Pamir.[42] Whether the emigrants into Chaldæa brought the rudiments of their
civilization with them, or whether their inventive faculties were only stirred to action after
their settlement in that fertile land, is of slight importance. In any case we may say that
they were the first to put the soil into cultivation, and to found industrious and stationary
communities along the banks of its two great rivers. Once settled in Chaldæa, they called themselves,
according to M. Oppert, the people of SUMER, a title which is continually associated with that
of "the people of ACCAD" in the inscriptions.[43]

NOTES:

[28] History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 15 (London, 1883, Chapman and Hall). Upon
the Chaldæan chadoufs see LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 109, 110.

[29] Genesis xi. 2.

[30] Genesis x. 8-12.

[31] Genesis x. 6-20.

[32] Genesis x. 22: "The children of Shem."

[33] Genesis xi. 27-32.

[34] In his paper upon the Date des Écrits qui portent les Noms de Bérose et de Manéthou (Hachette,
8vo. 1873), M. ERNEST HAVET has attempted to show that neither of those writers, at least as
they are presented in the fragments which have come down to us, deserve the credence which
is generally accorded to them. The paper is the production of a vigorous and independent intellect,
and there are many observations which should be carefully weighed, but we do not believe that,
as a whole, its hypercritical conclusions have any chance of being adopted. All recent progress
in Egyptology and Assyriology goes to prove that the fragments in question contain much authentic
and precious information, in spite of the carelessness with which they were transcribed, often
at second and third hand, by abbreviators of the basse époque.

[35] See § 2 of Fragment 1. of BEROSUS, in the Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum of CH. MÜLLER
(Bibliothèque Grecque-Latine of Didot), vol. ii. p. 496; En de tê Babulôni polu plêthos anthrôpôn
genesthai alloethnôn katoikêsantôn tên Chaldaian.

[36] Gaston MASPERO, Histoire ancienne des Peuples de l'Orient, liv. ii. ch. iv. La Chaldée.
François LENORMANT, Manuel d'Histoire ancienne de l'Orient, liv. iv. ch. i. (3rd edition).

[37] The principal texts in which these terms are to be met with are brought together in the
Wörterbuch der griechischen Eigennamen of PAPE (3rd edition), under the words Kissia, Kissioi,
Kossaioi.

[38] A single voice, that of M. Halévy, is now raised to combat this opinion. He denies that
there is need to search for any language but a Semitic one in the oldest of the Chaldæan inscriptions.
According to him, the writing under which a Turanian idiom is said to lurk, is no more than
a variation upon the Assyrian fashion of noting words, than an early form of writing which
owed its preservation to the quasi-sacred character imparted by its extreme antiquity. We have
no intention of discussing his thesis in these pages; we must refer those who are interested
in the problem to M. HALÉVY'S dissertation in the Journal Asiatique for June 1874: Observations
critiques sur les prétendus Touraniens de la Babylonie. M. Stanislas Guyard shares the ideas
of M. Halévy, to whom his accurate knowledge and fine critical powers afford no little support.

[39] MASPERO, Histoire ancienne, p. 134. Upon the etymology of Turanians see MAX MÜLLER'S Science
of Language, 2nd edition, p. 300, et seq. Upon the constituent characteristics of the Turanian
group of races and languages other pages of the same work may be consulted.... The distinction
between Turan and Iran is to be found in the literature of ancient Persia, but its importance
became greater in the Middle Ages, as may be seen by reference to the great epic of Firdusi,
the Shah-Nameh. The kings of Iran and Turan are there represented as implacable enemies. It
was from the Persian tradition that Professor Müller borrowed the term which is now generally
used to denote those northern races of Asia that are neither Aryans nor Semites.

[40] This family is sometimes called Ural-Altaïc, a term formed in similar fashion to that
of Indo-Germanic, which has now been deposed by the term Aryan. It is made up of the names
of two mountain chains which seem to mark out the space over which its tribes were spread.
Like the word Indo-Germanic, it made pretensions to exactitude which were only partially justified.

[41] This is the opinion of M. OPPERT. He was led to the conclusion that their writing was
invented in a more northern climate than that of Chaldæa, by a close study of its characters.
There is one sign representing a bear, an animal which does not exist in Chaldæa, while the
lions which were to be found there in such numbers had to be denoted by paraphrase, they were
called great dogs. The palm tree had no sign of its own. See in the Journal Asiatique for 1875,
p. 466, a note to an answer to M. Halévy entitled Summérien ou rien.

[42] MASPERO, Histoire ancienne, p. 135.

[43] These much disputed terms, Sumer and Accad, are, according to MM. Halévy and Guyard, nothing
but the geographical titles of two districts of Lower Chaldæa.

§ 4.--The Wedges.

The writing of Chaldæa, like that of Egypt, was, in the beginning, no more than the abridged
and conventionalized representation of familiar objects. The principle was identical with that
of the Egyptian hieroglyphs and of the oldest Chinese characters. There are no texts extant
in which images are exclusively used,[44] but we can point to a few where the ideograms have
preserved their primitive forms sufficiently to enable us to recognize their origin with certainty.
Among those Assyrian syllabaries which have been so helpful in the decipherment of the wedges,
there is one tablet where the primitive form of each symbol is placed opposite the group of
strokes which had the same value in after ages.[45]

This tablet is, however, quite exceptional, and, as a rule, the cuneiform characters cannot
thus be traced to their primitive form. But well-ascertained and independent facts allow us
to come to certain conclusions which even this scanty evidence is enough to confirm.

In inventing the process of writing and bringing it to perfection, the human intellect worked
on the same lines among the Turanians of Chaldæa as it did everywhere else. The point of departure
and the early stages have been the same for all peoples, although some have stopped half-way
and others when three-fourths of the journey were complete. The supreme discovery which should
crown the effort is the attribution of a special sign to each of the elementary articulations
of the human voice. This final object, an object towards which the most gifted nations of antiquity
were working for so many centuries, was just missed by the Egyptians. They were, we may say,
wrecked in port, and the glory of creating the alphabet that men will use as long as they think
and write was reserved for the Phoenicians.

Even when their civilization was at its height the Babylonians never came so near to alphabetism
as the Egyptians. This is not the place for an inquiry into the reasons of their failure, nor
even for an explanation how signs with a phonetic value forced themselves in among the ideograms,
and became gradually more and more important. Our interest in the two kinds of writing is of
a different nature; we have to learn and explain their influence upon the plastic arts in the
countries where they were used.

In our attempt to define the style of Egyptian sculpture and to give reasons for its peculiar
characteristics, we felt obliged to attribute great importance to the habits of eye and hand
suggested and confirmed by the cutting and painting of the hieroglyphs. In their monumental
inscriptions, if nowhere else, the symbols of the Egyptian system retained their concrete imagery
to the end; and the images, though abridged and simplified, never lost their resemblance;[46]
and if it is necessary to know something more than the particular animal or thing which they
represent before we can get at their meaning, that is only because in most cases they had a
metaphorical or even a purely phonetic signification as well as their ideographic one. For
the most part, however, it is easy to recognize their origin, and in this they differ greatly
from the symbols of the first Chaldæan alphabet. In the very oldest documents there are certain
ideograms that, when we are warned, remind us of the natural objects from which their forms
have been taken, but the connection is slight and difficult of apprehension. Even in the case
of those characters whose forms most clearly suggest their true figurative origin, it would
have been impossible to assign its prototype to each without the help of later texts, where,
with more or less modification, they formed parts of sentences whose general significance was
known. Finally, the Assyrian syllabaries have preserved the meaning of signs, that, so far
as we can judge, would otherwise have been stumbling-blocks even to the wise men of Nineveh
when they were confronted with such ancient inscriptions as those whose fragments are still
found among the ruins of Lower Chaldæa.

Even in the remote days that saw the most venerable of these inscriptions cut, the images upon
which their forms were based had been rendered almost unrecognizable by a curious habit, or
caprice, which is unique in history. Writing had not yet become entirely cuneiform, it had
not yet adopted those triangular strokes which are called sometimes nails, sometimes arrow-heads,
and sometimes wedges, as the exclusive constituents of its character. If we examine the tablets
recovered by Mr. Loftus from the ruins of Warka, the ancient Erech (Fig. 1), or the inscriptions
upon the diorite statues found at Tello by M. de Sarzec (Fig. 2), we shall find that in the
distant period from which those writings date, most of the characters had what we may call
an unbroken trace.[47] This trace, like that of the hieroglyphs, would have been well fitted
for the succinct imitation of natural objects but for a rigid exclusion of those curves of
which nature is so fond. This exclusion is complete, all the lines are straight, and cut one
another at various angles. The horror of a curve is pushed so far that even the sun, which
is represented by a circle in Egyptian and other ideographic systems, is here a lozenge.

It is very unlikely that even the oldest of these texts show us Chaldæan writing in its earliest
stage. Analogy would lead us to think that these figures must at one time have been more directly
imitative. However that may have been, the image must have been very imperfect from the day
that the rectilinear trace came into general use. Figures must then have rapidly degenerated
into conventional signs. Those who used them could no longer pretend to actually represent
the objects they wished to denote. They must have been content to suggest their ideas by means
of a character whose value had been determined by usage. This transformation would be accelerated
by certain habits which forced themselves upon the people as soon as they were finally established
in the land of Shinar.

We are told that there are certain expressions in the Assyrian language which lead to the belief
that the earliest writing was on the bark of trees, that it offered the first surface to the
scribe in those distant northern regions from which the early inhabitants of Chaldæa were emigrants.
It is certain that the dwellers in that vast alluvial plain were compelled by the very nature
of the soil to use clay for many purposes to which no other civilization has put it. In Mesopotamia,
as in the valley of the Nile, the inhabitants had but to stoop to pick up an excellent modelling
clay, fine in texture and close grained--a clay which had been detached from the mountain sides
by the two great rivers, and deposited in inexhaustible quantities over the whole width of
the double valley. We shall see hereafter what an important part bricks, crude, fired, and
enamelled, played in the construction and decoration of Chaldæan buildings. It was the same
material that received most of their writing.

Clay offered a combination of facility with durability which no other material could equal.
While soft and wet it readily took the shape of any figure impressed upon it. The deftly-handled
tool could engrave characters upon its yielding surface almost as fast as the reed could trace
them upon papyrus, and much more rapidly than the chisel could cut them in wood. Again, in
its final condition as solid terra-cotta, it offered a chance of duration far beyond that of
either wood or papyrus. Once safely through the kiln it had nothing to fear short of deliberate
destruction. The message intrusted to a terra-cotta slab or cylinder could only be finally
lost by the reduction of the latter to powder. At Hillah, the town which now occupies a corner
of the vast space once covered by the streets of Babylon, bricks are found built into the walls
to this day, upon which the Assyrian scholar may read as he runs the royal style and titles
of Nebuchadnezzar.[48]

As civilization progressed, the dwellers upon the Persian Gulf felt an ever-increasing attraction
towards the art of writing. It afforded a medium of communication with distant points, and
a bond of connection between one generation and another; by its means the son could profit
by the accumulated experience of the father. The slab of terra-cotta was the most obvious material
for its reception. It cost almost nothing, while such an elaborate substance as the papyrus
of Egypt can never have been very cheap. It lent itself kindly to the service demanded of it,
and the writer who had confided his thoughts to its surface had only to fire it for an hour
or two to secure them a kind of eternity. This latter precaution did not require any very lengthy
journey; brick kilns must have blazed day and night from one end of Chaldæa to another.

If we consider for a moment the properties of the material, and examine the remains which have
come down to us, we shall understand at once what writing was certain to become under the triple
impulse of a desire to write much, to write fast, and to use clay as we moderns use paper.
Suppose oneself compelled to trace upon clay figures whose lines necessitated continual changes
of direction; at each angle or curve it would be necessary to turn the hand, and with it the
tool, because the clay surface, however tender it might be, would still afford a certain amount
of resistance. Such resistance would hardly be an obstacle, but it would in some degree diminish
the speed with which the tool could be driven. Now, as soon as writing comes into common use,
most of those who employ it in the ordinary matters of life have no time to waste. It is important
that all hindrances to rapid work should be avoided. The designs of the old writing with their
strokes sometimes broken, sometimes continuous, sometimes thick, and sometimes thin, wearied
the writer and took much time, and at last it came about that the clay was attacked in a number
of short, clear-cut triangular strokes each similar in form to its fellow. As these little
depressions had all the same depth and the same shape, and as the hand had neither to change
its pressure nor to shift its position, it arrived with practice at an extreme rapidity of
execution.

Some have asserted that the instrument with which these marks were made has been found among
the Mesopotamian ruins. It is, we are told, a small style in bone or ivory with a bevelled
triangular point.[49] And yet when we look with attention at these terra-cotta inscriptions,
we fall to doubting whether the hollow marks of which they are composed could have been made
by such a point. There is no sign of those scratches which we should expect to find left by
a sharp instrument in its process of cutting out and removing part of the clay. The general
appearance of the surface leads us rather to think that the strokes were made by thrusting
some instrument with a sharp ridge like the corner of a flat rule, into the clay, and that
nothing was taken away as in the case of wood or marble, but an impression made by driving
back the earth into itself.[50] However this may be, the first element of the cuneiform writing
was a hollow incision made by a single movement of the hand, and of a form which may be compared
to a greatly elongated triangle. These triangles were sometimes horizontal, sometimes vertical,
sometimes oblique, and when arranged in more or less complex groups, could easily furnish all
the necessary symbols. In early ages, the elements of some of these ideographic or phonetic
signs--signs which afterwards became mere complex groups of wedges--were so arranged as to
suggest the primitive forms--that is, the more or less roughly blocked out images--from which
they had originally sprung. The fish may easily be recognized in the following group : while
the character that stands for the sun, , reminds us of the lozenge which was the primitive
sign for that luminary. In the two symbols  and , we may, with a little good will, recognize
a shovel with its handle, and an ear. But even in the oldest texts the instances in which the
primitive types are still recognizable are very few; the wedge has in nearly every case completely
transfigured, and, so to speak, decomposed, their original features.

This is the case even in what is called the Sumerian system itself, and when its signs and
processes were borrowed by other nations, the tendency to abandon figuration was of course
still more marked. It has now been clearly proved that the wedges have served the turn of at
least four languages beside that of the people who devised them, and that in passing from one
people to another their groups never lost the phonetic value assigned to them by their first
inventors.[51]

In the absence of this extended employment all attempts to decipher the wedges would have been
condemned to almost certain failure from the first, but as soon as its existence had been placed
beyond doubt, there was every reason to count upon success. It allowed the words of a text
to be transliterated into phonetic characters, and that being done, to discover their meaning
was but an affair of time, patience, and method.

       *       *       *       *       *

We see then, that the system of signs invented by the first inhabitants of Chaldæa had a vogue
similar to that which attended the alphabet of the Phoenicians in the Mediterranean basin.
For all the peoples of Western Asia it was a powerful agent of progress and civilization. We
can understand, therefore, how it was that the wedge, the essential element of all those groups
which make up cuneiform writing, became for the Assyrian one of the holy symbols of the divine
intelligence. Upon the stone called the Caillou Michaud, from the name of its discoverer, it
is shown standing upon an altar and receiving the prayers and homage of a priest.[52] It deserved
all the respect it received; thanks to it the Babylonian genius was able to rough out and hand
down to posterity the science from which Greece was to profit so largely.

And yet, in spite of all the services it had rendered, this form of writing fell into disuse
towards the commencement of our era; it was supplanted even in the country of its origin by
alphabets derived from that of the Phoenicians.[53] It had one grave defect: its phonetic signs
always represented syllables. No one of the wedge-using communities made that decisive step
in advance of which the honour belongs to the Phoenicians alone. No one of them carried the
analysis of language so far as to reduce the syllable to its elements, and to distinguish the
consonant, mute by itself, from the vowel upon which it depends, if we may say so, for an active
life.

All those races who have not borrowed their alphabet en bloc from their neighbours or predecessors
but have invented it for themselves, began with the imitation of objects. At first we have
a mere outline, made to gratify some special want.[54] The more these figures were repeated,
the more they tended towards a single stereotyped form, and that an epitomized and conventional
one. They were only signs, so that it was not in the least necessary to painfully reproduce
every feature of the original model, as if the latter were copied for its plastic beauty. As
time passed on, writing and drawing won separate existences; but at first they were not to
be distinguished one from the other, the latter was but a use of the former, and, in a sense,
we may even say that writing was the first and simplest of the plastic arts.

In Egypt this art remained more faithful to its origin than elsewhere. Even when it had attained
the highest development it ever reached in that country, and was on the point of crowning its
achievements by the invention of a true alphabet, it continued to reproduce the general shapes
and contours of objects. The hieroglyphs were truly a system of writing by which all the sounds
of the language could be noted and almost reduced to their final elements; but they were also,
up to their last day, a system of design in which the characteristic features of genera and
species, if not of individuals, were carefully distinguished.

Was it the same in Chaldæa? Had the methods, and what we may call the style of the national
writing, any appreciable influence upon the plastic arts, upon the fashion in which living
nature was understood and reproduced? We do not think it had, and the reason of the difference
is not far to seek. The very oldest of the ideographic signs of Chaldæa are much farther removed
from the objects upon which they were based than the Egyptian hieroglyphs; and when the wedge
became the primary element of all the characters, the scribe ceased to give even the most distant
hint of the real forms of the things signified. Throughout the period which saw those powerful
empires flourishing in Mesopotamia whose creations were admired and copied by all the peoples
of Western Asia, the more or less complex groups and arrangements of the cuneiform writing,
to whatever language applied, had no aim but to represent sometimes whole words, sometimes
the syllables of which those words were composed. Under such conditions it seems unlikely that
the forms of the written characters can have contributed much to form the style of artists
who dealt with the figures of men and animals. We may say that the sculptors and painters of
Chaldæa were not, like those of Egypt, the scholars of the scribes.

And yet there is a certain analogy between the handling of the inscriptions and that of the
bas-reliefs. It is doubtless in the nature of the materials employed that we must look for
the final explanation of this similarity, but it is none the less true that writing was a much
earlier and a much more general art than sculpture. The Chaldæan artist must have carried out
his modelling with a play of hand and tool learnt in cutting texts upon clay, and still more,
upon stone. The same chisel-stroke is found in both; very sure, very deep, and a little harsh.

However this may be, we cannot embark upon the history of Art in Chaldæa without saying a word
upon her graphic system. If there be one proof more important than another of the great part
played by the Chaldæans in the ancient world, it is the success of their writing, and its diffusion
as far as the shores of the Euxine and the eastern islands of the Mediterranean. Some cuneiform
texts have lately been discovered in Cappadocia, the language of which is that of the country,[55]
and the most recent discoveries point to the conclusion that the Cypriots borrowed from Babylonia
the symbols by which the words of the Greek dialect spoken in their island were noted.[56]

We have yet to visit more than one famous country. In our voyage across the plains where antique
civilization was sketched out and started on its long journey to maturity, we shall, whenever
we cross the frontiers of a new people, begin by turning our attention for a space to their
inscriptions; and wherever we are met by those characters which are found in their oldest shapes
in the texts from Lower Chaldæa, there we shall surely find plastic forms and motives whose
primitive types are to be traced in the remains of Chaldæan art. A man's writing will often
tell us where his early days were passed and under what masters his youthful intellect received
the bent that only death can take away.

NOTES:

[44] We are told that there is an inscription at Susa of this character. It has been examined
but not as yet reproduced. We can, therefore, make no use of it. See François LENORMANT, Manuel
d'Histoire ancienne, vol. ii. p. 156.

[45] M. LENORMANT reproduces this tablet in his Histoire ancienne de l'Orient (9th edition,
vol. i. p. 420). The whole of the last chapter in this volume should be carefully studied.
It is well illustrated, and written with admirable clearness. The same theories and discoveries
are explained at greater length in the introduction to M. LENORMANT'S great work entitled Essai
sur la Propagation de l'Alphabet phenicien, of which but one volume has as yet appeared (Maisonneuve,
8vo., 1872). At the very commencement of his investigations M. OPPERT had called attention
to the curious forms presented by certain characters in the oldest inscriptions. See Expédition
scientifique de Mésopotamie, vol. ii. pp. 62, 3, notably the paragraph entitled Origine Hiéroglyphique
de l'Écriture anarienne. The texts upon which the remarks of MM. Oppert and Lenormant were
mainly founded were published under the title of Early Inscriptions from Chaldæa in the invaluable
work of Sir Henry RAWLINSON (A Selection from the Historical Inscriptions of Chaldæa, Assyria,
and Babylonia, prepared for publication by Major-General Sir Henry Rawlinson, assisted by Edwin
Norris, British Museum, folio, 1861).

[46] See the History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. pp. 350-3 (?).

[47] This peculiarity is still more conspicuous in the engraved limestone pavement which was
discovered in the same place, but the fragments are so mutilated as to be unfit for reproduction
here.

[48] LAYARD, Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon, p. 506.

[50] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. p. 180.

[51] A list of these languages, and a condensed but lucid explanation of the researches which
have led to the more or less complete decipherment of the different groups of texts will be
found in the Manuel de l'Histoire ancienne de l'Orient of LENORMANT, 3rd edition, vol. ii.
pp. 153, &c.--"Several languages--we know of five up to the present moment--have given the
same phonetic value to these symbols. It is clear, however, that a single nation must have
invented the system," OPPERT, Journal Asiatique, 1875, p. 474. M. Oppert has given an interesting
account of the mode of decipherment in the Introduction and in Chapter 1. of the first volume
of his Expédition scientifique de Mésopotamie.

[52] A reproduction of this stone will be found farther on. The detail in question is engraved
in LAYARD'S Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. p. 181.

[53] The latest cuneiform inscription we possess dates from the time of Domitian. It has been
published by M. OPPERT, Mélanges d'Archéologie égyptienne et assyrienne, vol. i. p. 23 (Vieweg,
1873, 4to.). Some very long ones, from the time of the Seleucidæ and the early Arsacidæ, have
been discovered.

[54] Hence the name pictography which some scholars apply to this primitive form of writing.
The term is clear enough, but unluckily it is ill composed: it is a hybrid of Greek and Latin,
which is sufficient to prevent its acceptance by us.

[55] See the Proceedings of the Society of Biblical Archæology, twelfth session, 1881-2.

[56] See MICHEL BRÉAL, Le Déchiffrement des Inscriptions cypriotes (Journal des Savants, August
and September, 1877). In the last page of his article, M. Bréal, while fully admitting the
objections, asserts that it is "difficult to avoid recognizing the general resemblance (difficile
de méconnaître la ressemblance générale)." He refers us to the paper of Herr DEECKE, entitled
Der Ursprung der Kyprischen Sylbenschrift, eine palæographische Untersuchung, Strasbourg, 1877.
Another hypothesis has been lately started, and an attempt made to affiliate the Cypriot syllabary
to the as yet little understood hieroglyphic system of the Hittites. See a paper by Professor
A. H. SAYCE, A Forgotten Empire in Asia Minor, in No. 608 of Fraser's Magazine.

§ 5.--The History of Chaldæa and Assyria.

We cannot here attempt even to epitomize the history of those great empires that succeeded
one another in Mesopotamia down to the period of the Persian conquest. Until quite lately their
history was hardly more than a tissue of tales and legends behind which it was difficult to
catch a glimpse of the few seriously attested facts, of the few people who were more than shadows,
and of the dynasties whose sequence could be established. The foreground was taken up by fabulous
creatures like Ninus and Semiramis, compounded by the lively imagination of the Greeks of features
taken from several of the building and conquering sovereigns of Babylon and Nineveh. So, in
the case of Egypt, was forged the image of that great Sesostris who looms so large in the pages
of the Greek historians and combines many Pharaohs of the chief Theban dynasties in his own
person. The romantic tales of Ctesias were united by Rollin and his emulators with other statements
of perhaps still more doubtful value. The book of Daniel was freely drawn upon, and yet it
is certain that it was not written until the year which saw the death of Antiochus Epiphanes.
The book of Daniel is polemical, not historical; the Babylon in which its scene is laid is
a Babylon of the imagination; the writer chose it as the best framework for his lessons to
the Israelites, and for the menaces he wished to pour out upon their enemies.[57] Better materials
are to be found in other parts of the Bible, in Kings, in the Chronicles, and in the older
prophets. But it would be an ungrateful task for the critic to attempt to work out an harmonious
result from evidence so various both in origin and value. The most skilful would fail in the
endeavour. With such materials it would be impossible to arrive at any coherent result that
would be, we do not say true, but probable.

The discovery of Nineveh, the exploration of the ruins in Chaldæa, and the decipherment of
the cuneiform inscriptions, have changed all this, although much of the detail has yet to be
filled in, especially so far as the earlier periods are concerned. We are now able to trace
the leading lines, to mark the principal divisions, in a word, to put together the skeleton
of a future history. We are no longer ignorant of the origin of Babylonish civilization nor
of the directions in which it spread; we can grasp both the strong differences and the close
bonds of connection between Assyria and Chaldæa, and understand the swing of the pendulum that
in the course of two thousand years shifted the political centre of the country backwards and
forwards from Babylon to Nineveh, while from the mountains of Armenia to the Persian Gulf,
beliefs, manners, arts, spoken dialects, and written characters, preserved so many striking
resemblances as to put their common origin beyond a doubt.

Not a year passes but the discovery of fresh documents and the process of translation allows
us to retouch and complete the story. MM. Maspero and Lenormant have placed it before us as
shaped by their most recent studies, and we shall take them for our guide in a rapid indication
of the ruling character and approximate duration of each of those periods into which the twenty
centuries of development may be divided. We shall then have some fixed points by which to guide
our steps in the vast region whose monuments we are about to explore. So that if we say that
a certain fragment belongs to the first or second Chaldæan Empire, our readers will know, not
perhaps its exact date, but at least its relative age, and all risk of confusing the time of
Ourkam or Hammourabi with that of Nebuchadnezzar will be avoided.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we attempt to mount the stream of history and to pierce the mists which become ever thicker
as we near its source, what is it that we see? We see the lower part of the basin through which
the twin rivers make their way, entirely occupied by tribes of various origin and blood whose
ethnic characteristics we have endeavoured to point out. These mixed populations are divided
by the Tigris into two distinct groups. These groups often came into violent collision, and
in spite of mutual relations kept up through a long series of years, the line of demarcation
between them ever remained distinct.

Towards the east, in the plain which borders the river, and upon the terraces which rise one
above the other up to the plateau of Iran, we have the country called by the Greeks Susiana,
and by the Hebrews the kingdom of Elam. West of the Tigris, in Mesopotamia, the first Chaldæan
Empire is slowly taking shape.

The eastern state, that of which Susa was the capital, was, at intermittent periods, a great
military power, and more than once poured its hosts, not only over Babylonia, but over the
Syrian provinces to the west of the Euphrates. But in these momentary successes, nevertheless,
the part played by this state was, on the whole, a subordinate one. It spent itself in bloody
conflicts with the Mesopotamian empires, to which it became subject in the end, while at no
time does it appear to have done anything to advance civilization either by isolated inventions
or by general perseverance in the ways of progress. We know very little of its internal history,
and nothing to speak of about its religion and government, its manners and laws; but the few
monuments which have been discovered suffice to prove that its art had no independent existence,
that it was never anything better than a secondary form of Chaldæan art, a branch broken off
from the parent stem.

We are better, or, rather, less ill, informed, in the case of the first Chaldee Empire. The
fragments of Berosus give us some knowledge of its beginnings, so far, at least, as the story
was preserved in the national traditions, and the remains by which tradition can be tested
and corrected are more numerous than in the case of Susiana.

The chronicles on which Berosus based his work began with a divine dynasty, which was succeeded
by a human dynasty of fabulous duration. These legendary sovereigns, like the patriarchs of
the Bible, each lived for many centuries, and to them, as well as to the gods who preceded
them, certain myths were attached of which we find traces in the surviving monuments. Such
myths were the fish god, Oannes, and the Chaldaic deluge with its Noah, Xisouthros.[58]

This double period, with its immoderate duration, corresponds to those dark and confused ages
during which the intellect of man was absorbed in the constant and painful struggle against
nature, during which he had no leisure either to take note of time or to count the generations
as they passed. After this long succession of gods and heroes, Berosus gives what he calls
a Medic dynasty, in which, it has been thought, the memory of some period of Aryan supremacy
has survived. In any case, we have serious reasons for thinking that the third of the dynasties
of Berosus, with its eleven kings, was of Susian origin. Without speaking of other indications
which have been ingeniously grouped by modern criticism, a direct confirmation of this hypothesis
is to be found in the evidence of the Bible. In the latter we find Chedorlaomer, king of Elam,
master of the whole basin of the Tigris and Euphrates in the time of Abraham. In two of these
inscriptions he tells us how he took Susa 1,635 years after Chedornakhounta, king of Elam,
had conquered Babylon; he found, he says, in that city sacred statues which had been carried
off from Erech by the king of Elam. He brought them back again to Chaldæa and re-established
them in the sanctuary from which they had been violently removed.[60]

Assurbanipal took Susa in 660. All antiquity declares that the Babylonians and the Syrians
had a taste for chronology at a very early period. This is proved by the eponymous system of
the Assyrians, a system much to be preferred to the Egyptian habit of dating their monuments
with the year of the current reign only.[61] Moreover, have not the ancients perpetuated the
fame of the astronomical tables drawn up by the Chaldæans and founded upon observations dating
back to a very remote epoch? Such tables could not have been made without a strict count of
time. We have, then, no reason to doubt the figure named by Assurbanipal, and his chronicle
may be taken to give the oldest date in the history of Chaldæa, B.C. 2,295, as the year of
the Susian conquest.

The Elamite dynasty was succeeded, according to Berosus, by a native Chaldæan dynasty. Berosus--and
his dates are held in great respect--places the appearance of this new royal family in 2,047,
giving it forty-nine sovereigns and 458 years of duration. We are thus brought down to the
conquest of Mesopotamia by the Egyptian Pharaohs of the eighteenth dynasty. The names of the
Chaldæan princes have been transcribed by those Byzantine chroniclers to whom we owe the few
and short fragments of Berosus that are still extant.

On the other hand, inscriptions dug up upon the sites of the Chaldæan cities have furnished
us with fifty royal names which may, it is thought, be ascribed to the period whose chief divisions
we have just laid down. Assyriologists have classed them as well as they could--from the more
or less archaic characters of their language and writing, from the elements of which the proper
names are composed, and from the relationships which some of the texts show to have existed
between one prince and another--but they are still far from establishing a continuous series
such as those that have been arranged for the Pharaohs even of the Ancient Empire. Interruptions
are frequent, and their extent is beyond our power even to guess. Primitive Chaldæa has unluckily
left behind it no document like the list of Manetho to help us in the arrangement of the royal
names with which the monuments are studded.

We do not even know how the earliest royal name upon the inscriptions should be read; it is
more to avoid speaking of him by a paraphrase than for any other reason that the name Ourkam
has been assigned to the prince whose traces are to be found sprinkled over the ruins of most
of the southern cities. The characters of the texts stamped upon bricks recovered from buildings
erected by him, have, as all Assyriologists know, a peculiar physiognomy of their own. Ourkam
is the Menes of Chaldæa, and his date is put long before that Susian conquest of which we have
spoken above. The seals of Ourkam (see Fig. 3) and of his son Ilgi[62] have been found. The
name of the latter occurs almost as often as that of his father among the ruins of Southern
Chaldæa.

The oldest cities of Lower Chaldæa date from this remote epoch, namely, Ur, now Mugheir or
the bituminous, Urukh now Warka, Larsam (Senkerch), Nipour (Niffer), Sippara, Borsippa, Babylon,
&c. Ur, on the right bank of the Euphrates and near its ancient mouth, seems to have been the
first capital of the country and its chief commercial centre in those early times. The premiership
of Babylon as a holy city and seat of royalty cannot have been established until much later.
The whole country between Hillah and Bassorah is now little removed from a desert. Here and
there rise a few tents or reed huts belonging to the Montefik Arabs, a tribe of savage nomads
and the terror of travellers. Europeans have succeeded in exploring that inhospitable country
only under exceptional circumstances.[63] And yet it was there, between two or three thousand
years before our era, that the intermingling of ideas and races took place which gave birth
to the civilization of Chaldæa.

In order to find a king to whom we can give a probable date we have to come down as far as
Ismi-Dagan, who should figure in the fourth dynasty of Berosus. Tiglath-Pileser the First,
who reigned in Assyria at the end of the twelfth century, has left us an official document
in which he recounts how he had restored in Ellasar (now Kaleh-Shergat), a temple of Oannes
founded by Ismi-Dagan seven hundred years before. We are led therefore to place the latter
king about 1800.[64] We learn at the same time that Assyria was inhabited, in the days of Ismi-Dagan,
by a people who borrowed their gods from Chaldæa, and were dependents of the sovereign of the
latter country. It was in fact upon the shores of the Persian Gulf, far enough from Assyria,
that Oannes made his first revelation, and it is at Ur in the same region that the names of
Ismi-Dagan and of his sons Goun-goun and Samsibin are to be found stamped upon the bricks.
We may, therefore, look upon their epoch as that in which the first Chaldee Empire reached
its apogee. It then embraced all Mesopotamia, from the slopes of Mount Zagros to the out-fall
of the two great rivers.

The sovereigns of Chaldæa, like the Pharaohs of Egypt, toiled with intelligence and unremitting
perseverance to develop the resources of the vast domain of which they found themselves masters.
They set on foot great public works whose memory survives here and there, to this day. From
the moment when the first colonists, of whatever race, appeared in the country, they must have
set about regulating the water courses; they must have taken measures to profit by the floods
to form reserves, and to utilize the natural fall of the land, slight though it was, for the
distribution of the fertilizing liquid. The first groups of agriculturists were established
in the immediate neighbourhood of the Tigris and Euphrates, where nothing more was required
for the irrigation of the fields than a few channels cut through the banks of the stream, but
when the time arrived for the settlement of the regions at some distance from both rivers,
more elaborate measures had to be taken; a systematic plan had to be devised and carried out
by concerted action. That the kings of Chaldæa were quite equal to the task thus laid upon
them is proved by the inscriptions of HAMMOURABI, one of the successors of Ismi-Dagan, which
have been translated and commented upon by M. Joachim Ménant.[65]

The canal to which this king boasts of having given his name, the Nahar-Hammourabi, was called
in later days the royal canal, Nahar-Malcha. Herodotus saw and admired it, its good condition
was an object of care to the king himself, and we know that it was considerably repaired by
Nebuchadnezzar. It may be compared to a main artery; smaller vessels flowed from it right and
left, throwing off in their turn still smaller branches, and ending in those capillaries which
carried refreshment to the roots of each thirsty palm. Even in our day the traveller in the
province of Bagdad may follow one of these ancient beds for an hour or two without turning
to the right or the left, and their banks, though greatly broken in many places, still rise
above the surrounding soil and afford a welcome causeway for the voyager across the marshy
plains.[66] All these apparent accidents of the ground are vestiges left by the great hydraulic
works of that Chaldee Empire which began to loom through the shadows of the past some twenty
years ago, and has gradually been taking form ever since. When civilization makes up its mind
to re-enter upon that country, nothing more will be needed for the re-awakening in it of life
and reproductive energy, than the restoration of the great works undertaken by the contemporaries
of Abraham and Jacob.

       *       *       *       *       *

According to all appearance it was the Egyptian conquest about sixteen centuries B.C., that
led to the partition of Mesopotamia. Vassals of Thothmes and Rameses, called by Berosus the
"Arab kings," sat upon the throne of Babylon. The tribes of Upper Mesopotamia were farther
from Egypt, and their chiefs found it easier to preserve their independence. At first each
city had its own prince, but in time one of these petty kingdoms absorbed the rest, and Nineveh
became the capital of an united Assyria. As the years passed away the frontiers of the nation
thus constituted were pushed gradually southwards until all Mesopotamia was brought under one
sceptre. This consummation appears to have been complete by the end of the fourteenth century,
at which period Egypt, enfeebled and rolled back upon herself, ceased to make her influence
felt upon the Euphrates. Even then Babylon kept her own kings, but they had sunk to be little
more than hereditary satraps receiving investiture from Nineveh. Over and over again Babylon
attempted to shake off the yoke of her neighbour; but down to the seventh century her revolts
were always suppressed, and the Assyrian supremacy re-established after more or less desperate
conflicts.

During nearly half a century, from about 1060 to 1020 B.C., Babylon seems to have recovered
the upper hand. The victories of her princes put an end to what is called the FIRST ASSYRIAN
EMPIRE. But after one or two generations a new family mounted the northern throne, and, toiling
energetically for a century or so to establish the grandeur of the monarchy, founded the SECOND
ASSYRIAN EMPIRE. The upper country regained its ascendency by the help of military institutions
whose details now escape us, although their results may be traced throughout the later history
of Assyria. From the tenth century onwards the effects of these institutions become visible
in expeditions made by the armies of Assyria, now to the shores of the Persian Gulf or the
Caspian, and now through the mountains of Armenia into the plains of Cappadocia, or across
the Syrian desert to the Lebanon and the coast cities of Phoenicia. The first princes whose
figured monuments--in contradistinction to mere inscriptions--have come down to us, belonged
to those days. The oldest of all was ASSURNAZIRPAL, whose residence was at CALACH (Nimroud).
The bas-reliefs with which his palace was decorated are now in the Louvre and the British Museum,
most of them in the latter.[67] They may be recognized at once by the band of inscription which
passes across the figures and reproduces one text again and again (Fig. 4). To Assurnazirpal's
son SHALMANESER III. belongs the obelisk of basalt which also stands in the British Museum.
Its four faces are adorned with reliefs and with a running commentary engraved with extreme
care.[68]

Shalmaneser was an intrepid man of war. The inscriptions on his obelisk recall the events of
thirty-one campaigns waged against the neighbouring peoples under the leadership of the king
himself. He was always victorious, but the nations whom he crushed never accepted defeat. As
soon as his back was well turned they flew to arms, and again drew him from his repose in the
great palace which he had built at Calach, close to that of his father.[69]

Under the immediate successors of Shalmaneser the Assyrian prestige was maintained at a high
level by dint of the same lavish bloodshed and truculent energy; but towards the eighth century
it began to decline. There was then a period of languor and decadence, some echo of which,
and of its accompanying disasters, seems to have been embodied by the Greeks in the romantic
tale of Sardanapalus. No shadow of confirmation for the story of a first destruction of Nineveh
is to be found in the inscriptions, and, in the middle of the same century, we again find the
Assyrian arms triumphant under the leadership of TIGLATH PILESER II., a king modelled after
the great warriors of the earlier days. This prince seems to have carried his victorious arms
as far east as the Indus, and west as the frontiers of Egypt.

And yet it was only under his second successor, SARYOUKIN, or, to give him his popular name,
SARGON, the founder of a new dynasty, that Syria, with the exception of Tyre, was brought into
complete submission after a great victory over the Egyptians (721-704).[70] In the intervals
of his campaigns Sargon built the town and palace which have been discovered at Khorsabad,
Dour-Saryoukin, or the "town of Sargon."

His son SENNACHERIB equalled him both as a soldier and as a builder. He began by crushing the
rebels of Elam and Chaldæa with unflinching severity; in his anger he almost exterminated the
inhabitants of Babylon, the perennial seat of revolt; but, on the other hand, he repaired and
restored Nineveh. Most of his predecessors had been absentees from the capital, and had neglected
its buildings. They had preferred to place their own habitations where they could escape from
the crowd and the dangers it implied. But Sennacherib was of another mind. He chose a site
well within the city for the magnificent palace which Mr. Layard has been the means of restoring
to the world. This building is now known as Kouyundjik, from the name of the village perched
upon the mound within which the buildings of Sennacherib were hidden.[71]

Sennacherib rebuilt the walls, the towers, and the quays of Nineveh at the same time, so that
the capital, which had never ceased to be the strongest and most populous city of the empire,
again became the residence of the king--a distinction which it was to preserve until the fast
approaching date of its final destruction.

The son of Sennacherib, ESARHADDON, and his grandson, ASSURBANIPAL, pushed the adventures and
conquests of the Assyrian arms still farther. They subdued the whole north of Arabia, and invaded
Egypt more than once. They took and retook Memphis and Thebes, and divided the whole valley
of the Nile, from the Ethiopian frontier to the sea, into a number of vassal principalities,
whose submission was insured by the weakness and mutual jealousies of their lords. Ever prompt
in revolt, Babylon again exposed itself to sack, and Susiana, which had helped the insurrection,
was pillaged, ravaged, and so utterly crushed that it was on the point of disappearing for
ever from the scene as an independent state. There was a moment when the great Semitic Empire
founded by the Sargonides touched even the Ægæan, for Gyges, king of Lydia, finding himself
menaced by the Cimmerians, did homage to Assurbanipal, and sued for help against those foes
to all civilization.[72]

Like their ancestors, these great soldiers were also great builders. In one of his inscriptions
Esarhaddon boasts of having built ten palaces and thirty-six temples in Assyria and Chaldæa.[73]
Some traces of one of these palaces have been found within the enceinte of Nineveh, at Nebbi-Younas;
but it was chiefly upon Nimroud that Esarhaddon left marks of his magnificence. The palace
called the South-western Palace, in consequence of its position in the mound, was commenced
by him. It was never finished, but in plan it was more grandiose than any other of the royal
dwellings. Had it been complete it would have included the largest hall ever provided by an
Assyrian architect for the pomps of the Ninevitish court.

Assurbanipal was cruel in victory and indefatigable in the chase. Judging from his bas-reliefs
he was as proud of the lions he killed by hundreds in his hunts, as of the men massacred by
thousands in his wars and military promenades, or of the captives driven before him, like herds
of helpless cattle, from one end of Asia to the other. He appears also to have been a patron
of literature and the arts. It was under his auspices that the collection of inscribed terra-cotta
tablettes was made in the palace at Kouyundjik,[74] of which so many fragments have now been
recovered. He ordered the transcription of several ancient texts which had been first cut,
many centuries before, at Ur of the Chaldees. In fact, he collected that royal library whose
remains, damaged by time though they be, are yet among the most valued treasures of the British
Museum. Documents of many kinds are to be found among them: comparative vocabularies, lists
of divinities with their distinguishing epithets, chronological lists of kings and eponymous
heroes, grammars, histories, tables of astronomical observations, scientific works of various
descriptions, &c., &c. These tablets were classified according to subject and arranged in several
rooms of the upper story, so that they suffered much in the fall of the floors and roofs. Very
few are quite uninjured but in many cases the pieces have been successfully put together. When
first discovered these broken remains covered the floors of the buried palace to the depth
of about two feet.[75]

The building was no less remarkable for the richness and beauty of its bas-reliefs. We shall
have occasion to reproduce more than one of the hunting scenes which are there represented,
and of which we give a first illustration on the opposite page. Some remains of another palace
built by the same prince have been discovered in the mound of Nebbi-Younas.

Never had the empire seemed more strong and flourishing than now, and yet it was close to its
fall. The Sargonids understood fighting and pillage, but they made no continuous effort to
unite the various peoples whom they successfully conquered and trampled underfoot. The Assyrians
have been compared to the Romans, and in some respects the parallel is good. They showed a
Roman energy in the conduct of their incessant struggles, and the soldiers who brought victory
so often to the standards of the Sennacheribs and Shalmanesers must have been in their time,
as the legions of the consuls and dictators were in later years, the best troops in Asia: they
were better armed, better disciplined, and better led than those of neighbouring states, more
used to fatigue, to long marches and rapid evolutions. The brilliance of their success and
its long duration are thus explained, for the chiefs of the empire never seem to have had the
faintest suspicion of the adroit policy which was afterwards to bind so many conquered peoples
to the Roman sceptre. The first necessity for civilized man is security: the hope, or rather
the certainty, of enjoying the fruits of his own industry in peace. When this certainty is
assured to him he quickly pardons and forgets the injuries he has suffered. This fact has been
continually ignored by Oriental conquerors and by Assyrian conquerors more than any others.
The Egyptians and Persians appear now and then to have succeeded in reconciling their subject
races, and in softening their mutual hatreds by paying some attention to their political wants.
But the Assyrians reckoned entirely upon terror. And yet one generation was often enough to
obliterate the memory of the most cruel disasters. Sons did not learn from the experience of
their fathers, and, although dispersed and decimated times without number, the enemies of Assyria
never acquiesced in defeat. In the subjection imposed upon them they panted for revenge, and
while paying their tributes they counted the hours and followed with watchful eye every movement
of their master. Let him be carried into any distant province, or engaged in lengthened hostilities,
and they at once flew to their arms. If the prince were fighting in Armenia, or on the borders
of the Caspian, Chaldæa and Susiana would rise against him: if disputing the Nile Valley with
the Ethiopians, Syria would revolt in his rear and the insurrection would spread across the
plains of Asia with the rapidity of a prairie fire.

Thus no question received a final settlement. On the morrow of the hardest won victory the
fight had to begin anew. The strongest and bravest exhausted themselves at such a game. Each
campaign left gaps in the ranks of the governing and fighting classes, and in time, their apparent
privilege became the most crushing of burdens. The same burden has for a century past been
slowly destroying the dominant race in modern Turkey. Its members occupy nearly all the official
posts, but they have to supply the army as well. Since the custom of recruiting the latter
with the children of Christians, separated from their families in infancy and converted to
Islamism has been abandoned, the military population has decreased year by year. One or two
more wars like the last and the Ottoman race will be extinct.

Losses in battle were then a chief cause of decadence in a state which failed to discipline
its subject peoples and to incorporate them in its armies. A further explanation is to be found
in the lassitude and exhaustion which must in time overtake the most warlike princes, the bravest
generals, and the most highly tempered of conquering races. A few years of relaxed watchfulness,
an indolent and soft-hearted sovereign, are enough to let loose all the pent up forces of insubordination
and to unite them into one formidable effort. We thus see that, in many respects, nothing could
be more precarious than the prosperity of that Assyria whose insolent triumphs had so often
astonished the world since the accession of Sargon.

The first shock came from the north. About the year 632 all western Asia was suddenly overrun
by the barbarians whom the Greeks called the Cimmerian Scythians. With an élan that nothing
could resist, they spread themselves over the country lying between the shores of the Caspian
and the Persian Gulf; they even menaced the frontiers of Egypt. The open towns were pillaged
and destroyed, the fields and agricultural villages ruthlessly laid waste. Thanks to the height
and thickness of their defending walls Nineveh, Babylon, and a few other cities escaped a sack,
but Mesopotamia as a whole suffered cruelly. The dwellers in its vast plains had no inaccessible
summits or hidden valleys to which they could retreat until the wave of destruction had passed
on. At the end of a few years the loot-laden Scythians withdrew into those steppes of central
Asia whence their descendants were again, some six centuries later, to menace the existence
of civilization; and they left Assyria and Chaldæa half stripped of their inhabitants behind them.

The work begun by the Scythians was finished by the Medes. These were Aryan tribes, long subject
to the Assyrians, who had begun to constitute themselves a nation in the first half of the
seventh century, and, under the leadership of CYAXARES, the real founder of their power, had
already attacked Nineveh after the death of Assurbanipal. This invasion brought on a kind of
forced truce, but when the Medes had compelled the Scythians to retreat to their deserts by
the bold stroke which Herodotus admires so much, they quickly resumed the offensive[76]. We
cannot follow all the fluctuations of the conflict; the information left by the early historians
is vague and contradictory, and we have no cuneiform inscriptions to help us out. After the
fall of Nineveh cylinders of clay and alabaster slabs were no longer covered with wedges by
the Assyrian scribes. They had recounted their victories and conquests at length, but not one
among them, so far as we know, cared to retrace the dismal history of final defeat.

All that we can guess is that the last sovereign of Nineveh fell before a coalition in which
Media and Chaldæa played the chief parts[77]. NABOPOLASSAR, the general to whom he confided
the defence of Babylon, entered into an alliance with Cyaxares. ASSUREDILANI shut himself up
in his capital, where he resisted as long as he could, and finally set fire to his palace and
allowed himself to be burned alive rather than fall living into the hands of his enemies (625
B.C.). Nineveh, "the dwelling of the lions," "the bloody city," saw its last day; "Nineveh
is laid waste," says the prophet Nahum, "who will bemoan her?"[78]

The modern historian will feel more pity for Assyria than the Jewish poet, the sincere interpreter
of a national hatred which was fostered by frequent and cruel wounds to the national pride.
We can forgive Nineveh much, because she wrote so much and built so much, because she covered
so much clay with her arrow-heads, and so many walls with her carved reliefs. We forgive her
because to the ruins of her palaces and the broken fragments of her sculpture we owe most of
our present knowledge of the great civilization which once filled the basin of the Tigris and
Euphrates. The kings of Assyria went on building palaces up to the last moment. Each reign
added to the series of royal dwellings in which every chamber was filled with inscriptions
and living figures. Some of these structures were raised in Nineveh itself, some in the neighbouring
cities. At the south-east angle of the mound at Nimroud, the remains of a palace begun by Assuredilani
have been excavated. Its construction had been interrupted by the Medes and Scythians, for
it was left unfinished. Its proposed area was very small. The rooms were narrow and ill arranged,
and their walls were decorated at foot with slabs of bare limestone instead of sculptured alabaster.
Above the plinth thus formed they were covered with roughly executed paintings upon plaster,
instead of with enamelled bricks. Both plan and decoration show evidence of haste and disquiet.
The act of sovereignty had to be done, but all certainty of the morrow had vanished. From the
moment in which Assyrian sculpture touched its highest point in the reign of Assurbanipal,
the material resources of the kingdom and the supply of skilled workmen had slowly but constantly
diminished.[79]

Nineveh destroyed, the empire of which it was the capital vanished with it. The new Babylonian
empire, the Empires of the Medes and of the Persians followed each other with such rapidity
that the Assyrian heroes and their prowess might well have been forgotten. The feeble recollections
they left in men's minds became tinged with the colours of romance. The Greeks took pleasure
in the fable of Sardanapalus: they developed it into a moral tale with elaborate conceits and
telling contrasts, but they did not invent it from the foundation. The first hint of it must
have been given by legends of the fall and destruction of Nineveh current in the cities of
Ecbatana, Susa, and Babylon when Ctesias was within their walls.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the obliteration of Nineveh the Medes and Chaldæans divided western Asia between them.
A family alliance was concluded between Nabopolassar and Cyaxares at the moment of concerting
the attack which was to have such a brilliant success, and either in consequence of that alliance
or for some unknown motive, the two nations remained good friends after their common victory.
The Medes kept Assyria, and extended themselves to the north, over the whole country between
the Caspian and the Black Sea. They would have carried their frontiers to the Ægæan but for
the existence of the Lydian monarchy, which arrested them on the left bank of the Halys. To
the south of these regions the SECOND CHALDÆAN EMPIRE took shape (625-536 B.C.). It made no
effort to expand eastwards over that plateau of Iran where the Aryan element, as represented
by the Medes and soon afterwards by the Persians, had acquired an ever-increasing preponderance,
but it pretended to the sovereignty of Egypt and Syria. In the former country, however, the
Saite princes had rekindled the national spirit, and the frontiers were held successfully against
the invaders. It was otherwise with the Jewish people. Sargon had taken Samaria and put an
end to the Israelitish kingdom; that of Judah was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. Thanks to its
insular position, Tyre escaped the lot of Jerusalem, but the rest of Phoenicia and all northern
Syria were subdued by Babylon.

In all this region the Semitic element had long been encroaching upon those other elements
which had preceded and been associated with it at the commencement. In all Mesopotamia only
one tongue was spoken and written, the tongue we now know as Assyrian, but should call Assyro-Chaldæan.
The differences of dialect between north and south were of little importance, and the language
in question is that of the inscriptions in both countries.

Another change requires to be mentioned. Our readers will remember the names of Ur, Erech,
and many other cities which played a great part in the early history of the country, and were
all capitals in turn. Babylon, however, in time acquired an unquestioned supremacy over them
all. The residence of the Assyrian viceroys during the supremacy of the northern kingdom, it
became the metropolis of the new empire after the fall of Nineveh. Without having lost either
their population or their prosperity, the other cities sunk to the condition of provincial towns.

For some hundred years Babylon had been cruelly ill-treated by the Assyrians, and never-ending
revolts had been the consequence. Nabopolassar began the work of restoration, and his son NEBUCHADNEZZAR,
the real hero of the Second Chaldee Empire, carried it on with ardour during the whole of his
long reign. "He restored the canals which united the Tigris to the Euphrates above Babylon;
he rebuilt the bridge which gave a means of communication between the two halves of the city;
he repaired the great reservoirs in which the early kings had caught and stored the superfluous
waters of the Euphrates during the annual inundation. Upon these works his prisoners of war,
Syrians and Egyptians, Jews and Arabs, were employed in vast numbers. The great wall of Babylon
was set up anew; so was the temple of Nebo at Borsippa; the reservoir at Sippara, the royal
canal, and a part at least of Lake Pallacopas, were excavated; Kouti, Sippara, Borsippa, Babel,
rose upon their own ruins. Nebuchadnezzar was to Chaldæa what Rameses II. was to Egypt, and
there is not a place in Babylon or about it where his name and the signs of his marvellous
activity cannot be found."[80]

Nebuchadnezzar reigned forty-three years (604-561), and left Babylon the largest and finest
city of Asia. After his death the decadence was rapid. A few years saw several kings succeed
one another upon the throne, while a revolution was being accomplished upon the plateau of
Iran which was destined to be fatal to Chaldæa. The supremacy in that region passed from the
feeble and exhausted Medes into the hands of the Persians, another people of the same stock.
The latter were a tribe of mountaineers teeming with native energy, and their strength had
been systematically organized by a young and valiant chief, in whom they had full confidence
because he had given them confidence in themselves. CYRUS began by leading them to the conquest
of Media, Assyria, and Asia Minor, and by forcing the nations who dwelt between the southern
confines of Persia and the mountains of Upper India to acknowledge his supremacy. Finally,
he collected his forces for an attack upon Chaldæa, and, in 536, Babylon fell before his arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

And yet Babylon did not disappear from history in a day; she was not destroyed, like Nineveh,
by a single blow. Cyrus does not appear to have injured her. She remained, under the Persian
kings, one of the chief cities of the empire. But she did not give up her habit of revolting
whenever she had a chance, and DARIUS, the son of Hystaspes, tired of besieging her, ended
by dismantling her fortifications, while XERXES went farther, and pillaged her temples. But
the chief buildings remained standing. Towards the middle of the fifth century they excited
the admiration of Herodotus, and, fifty years later, that of Ctesias. Strabo, on the other
hand, found the place almost a desert.[81] Babylon had been ruined by the foundation of Seleucia,
on the Tigris, at a distance of rather more than thirty miles from the ancient capital. Struck
by the beauty of its monuments and the advantages of its site, ALEXANDER projected the restoration
of Babylon, and proposed to make it his habitual residence; but he died before his intention
could be carried out, and SELEUCUS NICATOR preferred to build a town which should be called
after himself, and should at least perpetuate his name. The new city had as many as six hundred
thousand inhabitants. Under the Parthians Ctesiphon succeeded to Seleucia, to be replaced in
its turn by Bagdad, the Arab metropolis of the caliphs. This latest comer upon the scene would
have equalled its predecessors in magnificence had the routes of commerce not changed so greatly
since the commencement of the modern era, and, above all, had the Turks not been masters of
the country. There can be no doubt that the next generation will see the civilization of the
West repossess itself of the fertile plains in which it was born and nursed, and a railway
carried from the shores of the Mediterranean to those of the Persian Gulf. Such a road would
be the most direct route from Europe to India, and its construction would awake Chaldæa to
the feverish activity of our modern life. Peopled, irrigated, and tilled into her remotest
corners, she would again become as prolific as of old. Her station upon the wayside would soon
change her towns into cities as populous as those of Nebuchadnezzar, and we may even guess
that her importance in the future would reduce her past to insignificance, and would make her
capital such a Babylon as the world has not yet seen.

NOTES:

[57] TH. NOELDEKE, Histoire littéraire de l'ancien Testament, French version. See chapter vii.

[58] This account of the fabulous origin of civilization in Chaldæa and Assyria will be found
in the second book of BEROSUS. See Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum of Ch. MÜLLER, vol. i. fr.
4, 13. Book i. is consecrated to the cosmogony, Book iii. to the Second Chaldee Empire.

[59] Genesis xiv.

[60] F. LENORMANT, Manuel de l'Histoire ancienne, vol. ii. p. 24. SMITH (Assyrian Discoveries,
p. 224) puts the capture of Susa in 645, and thus arrives at the date 2280 B.C.

[61] LENORMANT, Manuel de l'Histoire ancienne, vol. ii. p. 65, gives an account of the system
under which special magistrates gave their name to each year, and of the lists which have been
preserved.

[62] This was lately found at Bagdad after long being supposed to be lost. It is now in the
British Museum.

[63] It was visited under the best conditions, and has been best described by W. KENNETH LOFTUS
who was in it from 1849 to 1852. Attached as geologist to the English mission, commanded by
Colonel, afterwards General Sir Fenwick Williams of Kars, which was charged with the delimitation
of the Turco-Persian frontier, he was accompanied by sufficient escorts and could stay wherever
he pleased. He was an ardent traveller and excellent observer, and science experienced a real
loss in his death. The only work which he has left behind him may still be read with pleasure
and profit, namely, Travels and Researches in Chaldæa and Susiana, with an Account of Excavations
at Warka, the "Ereich" of Nimrod, and Shúsh, "Shushan the palace" of Esther, 8vo, London: 1857.
The articles contributed by J. E. TAYLOR, English vice-consul at Bassorah, to vol. xv. of the
Journal of the Asiatic Society (1855), may also be read with advantage. He passed over the
same ground, and also made excavations at certain points in Lower Chaldæa which were passed
over by Mr. Loftus. Finally, M. de Sarzec, the French consul at Bassorah, to whom we owe the
curious series of Chaldæan objects which have lately increased the riches of the Louvre, was
enabled to explore the same region through the friendship of a powerful Arab chief. It is much
to be desired that he should give us a complete account of his sojourn and of the searches
he carried on.

[64] LENORMANT, Manuel de l'Histoire ancienne, vol. ii. p. 30.

[65] J. MÉNANT, Inscriptions de Hammourabi, Roi de Babylone; 1863, Paris. These inscriptions
are the oldest documents in phonetic character that have come down to us. See OPPERT, Expédition
scientifique, vol. i. p. 267.

[66] KER PORTER, Travels in Georgia, Persia, etc., 4to., vol. ii. p. 390. LAYARD, Discoveries
in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon, p. 535. "Alexander, after he had transferred the seat
of his empire to the east, so fully understood the importance of these great works that he
ordered them to be cleansed and repaired and superintended the work in person, steering his
boat with his own hands through the channels."

[67] This palace was the one called the North-western Palace.

[68] LAYARD, The Monuments of Nineveh, from Drawings made on the spot, Illustrated in one Hundred
Plates (large folio, London: 1849), plates 53-56.

[69] It is now called the Central Palace at Nimroud.

[70] The chief work upon this period, the most brilliant and the best known in Assyrian history,
is the Faites de Sargon of MM. OPPERT and MÉNANT (Paris: 1865).

[71] The palace occupied the whole of the south-western angle of the mound.

[72] MASPERO (Histoire ancienne, p. 431) refers us to the authors by whom the inscription,
in which these relations between the kings of Lydia and Assyria are recounted, was translated
and explained. The chief of these is George SMITH, who, in his History of Assurbanipal, has
brought together and commented upon the different texts from which we learn the facts of this
brilliant reign. The early death of this young scholar can never be too much regretted. In
spite of his comparative youth he added much to our knowledge of Assyria, and, moreover, to
him belongs the credit of having recognized the true character of the Cypriot alphabet.

[73] RAWLINSON, The Five Great Monarchies, vol. ii. p. 196.

[74] The Northern Palace.

[75] This library has always attracted the attention of Assyriologists, and the best preserved
of its texts have been published at various times under the supervision of Sir Henry RAWLINSON
and George SMITH. These texts have been translated into English, French, and German, and much
discussed by the scholars of all three nations. 18mo., 1880 Ernest Leroux.

[76] HERODOTUS, i. 106.

[77] HERODOTUS (i. 106) alludes to this capital event only in a word or two, in which he promises
to give a more complete account of the whole matter in another work--en heteroisi logoisi--doubtless
in that History of Assyria ("Assurioi logoi" i. 184) which was either never written or soon
lost. Diodorus, who gives circumstantial details both of the coalition and the siege, dates
it a century too early, changes all the names, and mixes up many fables with his recital (ii.
23-28). In forming a just idea of the catastrophe and of its date we have to depend chiefly
upon the lost historians, such as Abydenus and Alexander Polyhistor, fragments of whose works
have been preserved for us by Eusebius and Georgius Syncellus. See RAWLINSON, The Five Great
Monarchies, etc., vol. ii. pp. 221-232.

[78] Nahum ii. 11; iii. 1, 7.

[79] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. pp. 38-39. Discoveries, p. 655.

[80] MASPERO, Histoire ancienne, p. 506.

[81] STRABO, xvi. i. 5.

§ 6.--The Chaldæan Religion.

We know much less about the religion of Chaldæa than about that of Egypt. The religious monuments
of Mesopotamia are much fewer than those of the Nile valley, and their significance is less
clear. Their series are neither so varied nor so complete as those of the earlier civilization.
Certain orders of subjects are repeated to satiety, while others, which would be more interesting,
are completely absent.

It is in funerary inscriptions that the heart of man, touched by the mystery of the tomb, lays
bare its aspirations with the greatest frankness and simplicity. Moved by the desire to escape
annihilation on the one hand and posthumous sufferings on the other, it is there that he addresses
his most ardent appeals to the supreme power, and allows us to arrive at a clear understanding
of his ideas as to the action, the character, and the power of the divinity. At Memphis, Abydos,
and Thebes, documents of this kind have been found in thousands, the figures accompanying them
serving as commentaries upon their text, and helping us to clear up all doubts as to their
nature. We thus have voices speaking from the depths of every Egyptian tomb; but the Chaldæan
sepulchre is mute. It has neither inscriptions, nor bas-reliefs, nor paintings. No Assyrian
burial-place has yet been found.

Dedications, phrases of homage to this or that divinity, the names and distinguishing epithets
of the gods, all these have been met with in Mesopotamia; sometimes in situ, as artistic decorations,
sometimes in engraved fragments of unknown origin. We may say the same of the different divine
types. Sometimes we find them in monumental sculpture, more often on those seals which we call
cylinders. But how obscure, incomplete, and poor such documents are in comparison with the
long pages of hieroglyphs in which the Pharaohs address their gods or make them speak for themselves!
How infinitely inferior in expression and significance to the vast pictures which cover the
walls of the Theban temples and bring all the persons of the Egyptian pantheon before us in
their turn! What hope is there that excavations in Chaldæa and Assyria will ever provide us
with such remains as those groups of statues which fill our museums, in which the effigy of
a single god is repeated hundreds of times with every variation of type, pose, and attribute
given to it by the Egyptian theosophy? On the one hand, what abundance, we may say what super-abundance;
on the other, what poverty, what gaping breaches in the chain of material history! Among the
gods and genii, whose names have come down to us, how few there are whose images we can surely
point to; and, again, what a small number of figures we have upon which we can put a name without
fear of error!

To write the history of these beliefs is a difficult task, not only because the idols, as they
would once have been called, are few, and the Chaldæo-Assyrian inscriptions historical and
narrative rather than religious and dogmatic, but also because the interpretation of the texts,
especially of the most ancient, is much less advanced than that of the hieroglyphs. When documents
in the old language, or at least written in the primitive ideographic characters, are attacked,
the process is one of divination rather than of translation in the strict sense of the word.

Another difficulty has to be noticed; classic literature does little or nothing to help us
in filling up these voids and dissipating the obscurities they cause. The Greeks were guilty
of many errors when they attempted to understand and describe foreign religions, but their
relations with the Egyptians and Phoenicians were so prolonged, and, towards the end, so intimate,
that at last they did succeed in grasping some of the doctrine taught in the sanctuaries of
Heliopolis and Thebes, of Byblos and Hierapolis. With their lively intellects they could hardly
frequent the temples, examine the sacred images, and question the priests as to the national
rites and ceremonies without discovering at least a part of the truth. It was not so with Chaldæa.
Babylon was too far off. Until the time of Alexander's conquests the boldest travellers did
no more than glance into its streets and monumental buildings, and by that time Nineveh had
long ceased to exist. It was only under the first of the Seleucidæ, when a Macedonian kingdom
was established in the centre of Mesopotamia, that the curiosity of the Greeks led them to
make inquiries similar to those they had pursued for some three centuries in the valley of
the Nile. We cannot doubt that this desire for information arose among the followers of those
princes themselves; many of them were very intelligent men; and when Berosus determined to
write his history in Greek, he may have wished to answer the questions asked in his hearing
by the Greek writers and philosophers; by those Alexandrians who were not all at Alexandria.
Unfortunately, nearly the whole of his work has been lost.

At the end of a century and a half Babylon shook off Hellenism, and Mesopotamia fell into the
hands of the Parthians. These people affected, in some degree, the poetry and arts of Greece,
but at bottom they were nothing more than Oriental barbarians. Their capital, Ctesiphon, seems
never to have attracted learned men, nor ever to have been a seat of those inquiries into the
past of the older races in which the cultured cities of the Greek world took so great a pleasure.
When Rome became the heir of Greece and the perpetuator of her traditions, we may believe that,
under Trajan, she set about establishing herself in the country; but she soon found it necessary
to withdraw within the Euphrates, and it was her loss when the Parthians fell from power to
be succeeded in the lordship of Mesopotamia by the Sassanids.[82]

We see, then, that, with the exception of one short period, Chaldæa was what the Greeks called
a barbarous country after the fall of its native royalty, and that it will help us little in
our endeavour to grasp the nature and extent of its religious beliefs. The last of the Athenian
philosophers, Damascius, has certainly left us some information as to the Babylonish deities
which seems to have been taken from authentic sources.[83] This, together with a few fragments
from the work of Berosus, is all that Hellenic tradition has handed down to us. There is nothing
here which can be even remotely compared to the treatises upon Isis and Osiris and the Goddess
of Syria preserved under the names of PLUTARCH and LUCIAN.

But we cannot enter upon the discussion of Chaldæan art without making an effort to describe
the gist of the national religion and its principal personages. In every country the highest
function of art is to translate the religious conceptions of its people into visible forms.
The architect, the sculptor, the painter, each in his own fashion, carries out this idea; the
first by the dimensions he gives to his temples, by their plan, and by the decoration of their
walls; the second and third by their choice of feature, expression and attribute for the images
in which the gods become visible to the people. The clearness and precision with which this
embodiment of an idea is carried out will depend upon the natural aptitudes of the race and
the assistance it receives from the capabilities of the materials at hand. Plastic creations,
from their very nature, must always be inferior to the thought they are meant to express; by
no means can they go beyond it. This truth is nowhere more striking than in the art of Greece.
Fortunately we are there able to see how a single theme is treated, in the first place, in
poetry,--the interpreter of the popular beliefs,--and afterwards in art; we can discover how
Phidias and Praxiteles, to speak only of sculptors, treated the types created by Homer and
Hesiod. In the case of Chaldæa we have no such opportunity. She has left us neither monuments
of sacerdotal theology like those we have inherited in such countless numbers from Egypt, nor
the brilliant imagery in which the odes and epics of the Greeks sketched the personalities
of the gods. But even in Chaldæa art was closely united with religion, and, in spite of the
difficulty of the task, the historian of art must endeavour to pierce the shadows that obscure
the question, and discover the bond of union between the two.

Thanks to the more recently deciphered texts, we do know something of the religious rites and
beliefs of the oldest nation that inhabited Mesopotamia and left its trace in history. Whether
we call them Accads or Sumirs, or by both names at once, we know that to them the whole universe
was peopled by a vast crowd of spirits, some dwelling in the depths of the earth, some in the
sea, while others floated on the wind and lighted in the sky the fires of the day and night.[84]

As, among men, some are good and some bad, so among these spirits some were beneficent and
others the reverse, while a third class was helpful or mischievous according as it was propitiated
by offerings or irritated by neglect. The great thing was to know how to command the services
of the spirits when they were required. The employment of certain gestures, sounds, and articulate
words had a mysterious but irresistible effect upon these invisible beings. How the effect
was produced no one asked, but that it was produced no one doubted. The highest of the sciences
was magic, for it held the threads by which the denizens of the invisible world were controlled;
the master of the earth was the sorcerer who could compel them to obey him by a nod, a form
of words, or an incantation. We can form some idea of the practical results of such a system
from what we know of the manners and social condition of those Turanian races in Asiatic Russia
who profess what is called chamanism, and from the condition of most of the negro tribes and
Polynesian islanders. Among all these people, who still remain in a mental condition from which
the rest of the species has long escaped, we find the highest places occupied by priest-magicians.
Now and then popular fury makes them pay cruelly for the ill-success of their conjurations,
but as a rule their persons and the illimitable power ascribed to them inspire nothing but
abject fear.

Fear is, indeed, the ruling sentiment in all religions in which a belief in spirits finds a
place. A man can never be sure that, in spite of all his precautions, he has not incurred the
displeasure of such exacting and capricious masters. Some condition of the bargain which is
being perpetually driven with protectors who give nothing for nothing, may have been unwittingly
omitted. "The spirits and their worshippers are equally selfish. As a general rule, the mischievous
spirits receive more homage than the good ones; those who are believed to live close at hand
are more dreaded than those at a distance; those to whom some special rôle is assigned are
considered more important than spirits with a wider but less definite authority."[85]

There were, of course, moments when men turned with gratitude towards the hidden benefactor
to whom they believed themselves indebted for some unhoped-for cure or unexpected success,
when joy and confidence moved their hearts at the thought of the efficacious protection they
had secured against future ills; but such moments were few and short. The habitual feeling
was one of disquietude, we might almost say of terror, so that when the imagination endeavoured
to give concrete forms to the beings in question, it figured them rather as objects of fear
than love. The day arrived for art to attempt the material realization of the dreams which
until then had been dimly seen in sleep or in the still more confused visions of the waking
hours, and for this hideous and threatening features were naturally chosen. It is thus that
the numerous figures of demons found in Chaldæa and Assyria, sometimes in the bas-reliefs,
sometimes in the shape of small bronzes and terra-cottas, are accounted for. A human body is
crowned with the head of an angry lion, with dog's ears and a horse's mane; the hands brandish
long poignards, the feet are replaced by those of a bird of prey, the extended claws seeming
to grasp the soil (Fig. 6). The gestures vary; the right arm is sometimes stretched downwards
at full length, sometimes bent at the elbow, but the combination of forms, the character of
the figure and its intention is always the same. We shall encounter this type again when we
come to speak of Cappadocia.

This belief in spirits is the second phase that the primitive religion, which we studied in
Egypt under the name of fetishism or animism, has to pass through.[86] In the beginning mere
existence is confounded with life. All things are credited with a soul like that felt by man
within himself. Such lifeless objects as stones and mountains, trees and rivers, are worshipped;
so too are both useful and noxious animals.[87] Childish as it seems to us the worship of spirits
is at least an advance upon this. It presupposes a certain power of reflection and abstraction
by which men were led to conclude that intelligence and will are not necessarily bound up with
a body that can be seen and touched. Life has been mobilized, if we may use such a phrase,
and thus we arrive at polydemonism; by which we mean the theory that partitions the government
of the world among a crowd of genii, who, though often at war among themselves, are always
more powerful than man, and may do him much harm unless he succeeds in winning their help and
good will.

The worship of stars is but one form of this religious conception. The great luminaries of
night and day were of course invested with life and power by men who felt themselves in such
complete dependence upon them.

So far as we can judge, the primitive form of fetishism left but feeble traces in the religion
of civilized Chaldæa and Assyria. The signs are few of that worship of sacred stones which
played such an important part among the Semites of the west, and even among the Greeks,[88]
neither can we find that either fear or gratitude ever led to the worship of animals, the docile
helpers or the redoubtable enemies of man, in the same degree as it did in Egypt. And yet Chaldæa
and Assyria followed the example of Egypt in mixing up the forms of men with those of animals
in their sacred statues. This we know both from the texts and the figured monuments. But it
was not only in the budding art of a primitive population that such combinations were employed,
and it was not only the inferior genii that were represented in such singular fashion. When,
by the development of religion, the capricious and unruly multitude of spirits had been placed
under the supremacy of a small number of superior beings, these, whom we may call the sovereign
gods, were often figured with the heads of lions or eagles (see Fig. 8). Before any of these
images had been found we already knew from Berosus what the deity was like by whom the first
germs of art and letters had been sown upon the earth. "He had the whole body of a fish, but
beneath his fish's head he had another head [that of a man], while human feet appeared below
his fish's tail. He had also the voice of a man, and his images are yet to be found."[89] More
than one sculptural type has been found answering to this description (see Fig. 9).

Why did art, in creating divine types, give such prominence to features borrowed from the lower
animals? Was it impelled by mere inability to distinguish, by varieties of feature, form and
attitude, between the different gods created by the imagination? Or must we look upon the attribution
to this or that deity, of forms borrowed from the bull, the lion, or the eagle, as a deliberate
act of symbolism, meant to suggest that the gods in question had the qualities of the animals
of which their persons were partly made up? In order to arrive at a just conclusion we must,
of course, take account both of the resistance of the material and of the facilities which
a transparent system of allegory would give to the artist in the working out of his thought;
we must also admit perhaps that the national intelligence had been prepared to look for and
admire such combinations. It may have been predisposed towards them by the habits of admiration
for the patient strength of the draught-ox and the destructive vigour of the eagle and the
lion contracted during a long series of years.

Both historical analogy and the examination of sculptured types lead us to think that the tribes
of Mesopotamia passed through the same religious phases as those of the Nile valley, but it
would appear that the most primitive beliefs were less long-lived in Chaldæa than in Egypt,
and that they were engraved less deeply upon the heart of the nation.

The belief in sorcery never died out in Chaldæa; up to the very last days of antiquity it never
lost its empire at least over the lower orders of the people. As time passed on the priests
joined the practice of astrology to that of magic. How the transition took place may readily
be understood. The magician began by seeking for incantations sufficiently powerful to compel
not only the vulgar crowd of genii to obedience, but also those who, in the shape of stars
great and small, inhabited the celestial spaces and revealed themselves to man by the brilliance
of their fires. Supposing him to be well skilled in his art his success would be beyond doubt
so far as his clients were concerned.

Many centuries after the birth of this singular delusion even the Greeks and Romans did not
refuse to believe that magic formulæ had sometimes the powers claimed for them. "Incantation,"
cries an abandoned lover in Virgil, "may bring down the very moon from the sky:"

     "Carmina vel cælo possunt deducere lunam."[90]

Although simple minds allowed themselves to believe that such prodigies were not quite impossible,
skilled men could not have failed to see that in spite of the appeals addressed to them by
priests and magicians, neither sun nor moon had ever quitted their place in the firmament or
interrupted their daily course. As the hope of influencing the action of the stars died away,
the wish to study their motions grew stronger. In the glorious nights of Chaldæa the splendour
of the sky stirred the curiosity as well as the admiration of mankind, and the purity of the
air made observation easy. Here and there, in the more thickly inhabited and best irrigated
parts of the plain, gentle mists floated over the earth at certain periods, but they were no
real hindrance to observation. To escape them but a slight elevation above the plain was required.
Let the observer raise himself a few feet above the tallest palm trees, and no cloud interposed
to prevent his eyes from travelling from the fires that blazed in the zenith to the paler stars
that lay clustered upon the horizon. There were no accidents of the ground by which the astronomer
could lift himself above the smoke of cities or the mists hanging over the lakes and canals,
and to make up for their absence the massive and many-storied towers which men began to construct
as soon as they understood how to make bricks and set them, must soon have come into use. These
towers were built upon artificial mounds which were in themselves higher than the highest house
or palm. The platforms on their summits gave therefore the most favourable conditions possible
for the interrogation of the heavens before the invention of the telescope.[91]

Thanks to the climate and to these great observatories which rose very early in Chaldæan history
all over the plain, the skies could be read like an open book; and the Chaldæans were fond
of such reading, because it afforded them, as they thought, a sure means of predicting the
future. They had no great belief in the power of their most formidable conjurations to affect
the majestic regularity of the heavenly movements--a regularity which must have impressed each
generation more strongly than the last, as it compared its own experience with the registered
observations of those that had gone before it. But they could not persuade themselves that
the powerful genii who guided those great bodies on their unending voyage could be indifferent
to the destinies of man, and that there was no bond of union, no mysterious connection, between
him and them. They pretended to discover this hidden bond. When a child uttered its first cry,
an intimate relation, they declared, was established between the new life and some one of the
countless bodies that people space. The impassive star, they said, governed the life and fortune
of the mortal who, perhaps, ignorantly looked upon himself as his own master and the master
of some of those about him. The future of each man was decided by the character of the star
that presided at his birth, and according to the position occupied by it in the sky at the
time of any important action of his life, that action would be fortunate in its issue or the
reverse.[92] These statements contain the germ of all the future developments of astrology.
Among all civilized peoples this imaginary science has at last fallen from its former repute.
From the remotest antiquity down to the end of the sixteenth century, and, in some places,
to a much later date, it enjoyed a rare power and prestige. Traces of these are yet to be found
in more than one familiar expression recalling the beliefs and ideas that took shape in the
plains of Mesopotamia long before the palaces of Babylon and Nineveh were raised upon the banks
of its two great rivers.

Astrology could not fail to smooth the way for astronomy, its successor. In order to profit
by the indications of the stars, it was necessary to foresee the positions they would occupy
in the sky on a given day or hour. There are many undertakings which succeed only when they
are carefully matured. If some great risk is to be run, it is not of much use to receive the
advice and warnings of the stars at the last moment, when the decisive step has, perhaps, been
made, and no retreat is possible. It would then be too late to think about the chances of success,
and a sudden withdrawal from an action already begun or an equally sudden acceptance of a task
for which no sufficient preparation had been made, would be the too frequent result.

There was only one mode of escaping such a danger or embarrassment as this, and that was, first,
to arrive by repeated observation at an exact knowledge of the route followed by the stars
across the sky, and of the rapidity of their march; secondly, to distinguish them one from
another, to know each by its own name, to recognize its physiognomy, character, and habits.
The first duty of the astrologer was to prepare such an inventory, and to discover the principle
of these movements; then, and then only, would he be in a position to give a satisfactory answer
to one asking where any particular star would be at the end of any specified number of days,
weeks, or months. Thanks to such information, his client could fix upon some happy conjunction
of the heavenly bodies, or at least avoid a moment when their influence would be on the side
of disaster. In every undertaking of any importance the most favourable hour could be selected
long before by the person chiefly concerned, the hour in which his star would be in the best
quarter of the sky and in the most propitious relations with its neighbours.

The phenomena produced in Chaldæa by these studies have been repeated more than once in the
history of civilization; they embody one of those surprises to which humanity owes much of
its progress. The final object of all this patient research was never reached, because the
relations upon which a belief in its feasibility was based were absolutely chimerical, but
as a compensation, the accessory and preliminary knowledge, the mere means to a futile end,
have been of incalculable value. Thus, in order to give an imposing and apparently solid basis
to their astrological doctrines, the Chaldæans invented such a numeration as would permit really
intricate computations to be made. By the aid of this system they sketched out all the great
theories of astronomy at a very early age. In the course of a few centuries, they carried that
science to a point never reached by the Egyptians.[93]

The chief difficulty in the way of a complete explanation of the Chaldæan system of arithmetic
lies in the interpretation of the symbols which served it for ciphers, which is all the greater
as it would seem that they had several different ways of writing a single number. In some cases
the notation varied according to the purpose of the calculation. A mathematician used one system
for his own studies, and another for documents which had to be read by the public. The doubts
attending the question are gradually being resolved, however, by the combined efforts of Assyriologists
and mathematicians. At the beginning of their civilization the Chaldæans did as other peoples
have done when they have become dissatisfied with that mere rough opposition of unity to plurality
which is enough for savage races, and have attempted to establish the series of numbers and
to define their properties. "They also began by counting on their fingers, by fives and tens,
or in other words by units of five; later on they adopted a notation by sixes and twelves as
an improvement upon the primitive system, in which the chief element, the ten, could be divided
neither into three nor four equal parts."[94] Two regular series were thus formed, one in units
of six, the other in units of five. Their commonest terms were, of course, those that occur
in both series. We know from the Greek writers that the Chaldæans counted time by sosses of
sixty, by ners of 600, and by sars of 3,600, years, and these terms were not reserved for time,
they were employed for all kinds of quantities. The sosse could be looked at either as five
twelves or six tens. So, too, with the ner (600) which represents six hundreds, or a sosse
of tens, or ten sosses or fifty twelves. The sar may be analysed in a similar fashion.

A system of numeration was thus established which may be looked at from a double point of view;
in the first place from its sexagesimal base, which certainly adapts itself to various requirements
with greater ease than any other;[95] in the second from the extreme facility with which not
only addition, but all kinds of complex calculations may be made by its use.[96]

With but two symbols, one for the units, the other for the tens, every number could be expressed
by attending to a rule of position like that governing our written numeration; at each step
to the left, a single sign, the vertical wedge, increased sixty-fold in value; the tens were
placed beside it, and a blank in this or that column answered to our zero.

Founded upon a sexagesimal numeration, the metrical system of Babylon and Nineveh was "the
most scientific of all those known and practised by the ancients: until the elaboration of
the French metrical system, it was the only one whose every part was scientifically co-ordinated,
and of which the fundamental conception was the natural development of all measures of superficies,
of capacity, or of weight, from one single unit of length, a conception which was adopted as
a starting point by the French commission of weights and measures."

The cubit of 525 millimetres was the base of the whole system.[97] We shall not here attempt
to explain how the other measures--itinerary, agrarian, of capacity, of weight--were derived
from the cubit; to call attention to the traces left in our nomenclature by the duodecimal
or sexagesimal system of the Babylonians, even after the complete triumph of the decimal system,
is sufficient for our purposes. It is used for instance in the division of the circle into
degrees, minutes, and seconds, in the division of the year into months, and of the day into
hours and their fractions.

This convenient, exact, and highly developed system of arithmetic and metrology enabled the
Chaldæans to make good use of their observations, and to extract from them a connected astronomical
doctrine. They began by registering the phenomena. They laid out a map of the heavens and recognized
the difference between fixed stars and those movable bodies the Greeks called planets--among
the latter they naturally included the sun and the moon, the most conspicuous of them all both
in size and motion, whose courses were the first to be studied and described. The apparent
march of the sun through the crowded ranks of the celestial army was defined, and its successive
stages marked by those twelve constellations which are still called the Signs of the Zodiac.
In time even these observations were excelled, and it now appears certain that the Chaldæans
recognized the annual displacement of the equinoctial point upon the ecliptic, a discovery
that is generally attributed to the Greek astronomers. But, like Hipparchus, they made faults
of calculation in consequence of the defects of their instruments.[98]

It was the same with the moon. They succeeded in determining its mean daily movements, and
when they had established a period of two hundred and twenty-three lunations, they contrived
to foretell its eclipses. Eclipses of the sun presented greater difficulties, and the Chaldæans
were content with noting their occurrence. They were acquainted with the solar year of three
hundred and sixty-five days and a quarter; they used it in their astronomical calculations;
but their religious and civil year was one composed of twelve lunar months, alternately full
and short, that is, of twenty-nine and thirty days respectively. The lunar and solar years
were brought into agreement by an intercalary cycle of eight years.[99]

The assertion of the philosopher Simplicius has been called in question for very plausible
reasons. Simplicius declares, upon the faith of Porphyrius, that Callisthenes sent from Babylon
to his uncle Aristotle, a copy of Chaldæan observations dating back as far as 1903 years before
the entry of Alexander into Mesopotamia, that is, to more than twenty-two centuries before
our era.[100]

However this may be, all ancient writers are agreed in admitting that the Chaldæans had begun
to observe and record astronomical phenomena long before the Egyptians;[101] moreover the remains
of those clay tablets have been found in various parts of Chaldæa and Assyria upon which, as
Pliny tells us upon the authority of the Greek astronomer Epigenes, the Chaldæans had inscribed
and preserved the astronomical observations of seven hundred and eighty thousand years.[102]
We need not dwell upon the enormity of this figure; it matters little whether it is due to
the mistakes of a copyist or to the vanity of the Chaldæans, and the too ready credulity of
the Greeks; the important point is the existence of the astronomical tablets, and those Epigenes
himself saw. The library of Assurbanipal at Nineveh included catalogues of stellary and planetary
observations, among others the times of Venus, Jupiter and Mars, and the phases of the moon,
for every day in the month.[103] Tablets have also been recently discovered giving the arrangement
of the stars in the sky for each season and explaining the rule to be followed in the insertion
of the intercalary months. Finally, a fragment of an Assyrian planisphere has been found in
the palace of Sennacherib.[104]

Even if classic authors had been silent on the subject, and all the original documents had
disappeared, we might have divined from the appearance of the figured monuments alone, how
greatly the Chaldæans honoured the stars and how much study and research they devoted to them;
we might have guessed that they lived with their eyes fixed upon the firmament and upon the
sources of light. Look at the steles that bear royal effigies, at the representations upon
contracts and other documents of that kind (see Fig. 10), at the cylindrical or conical seals
which have gravitated in thousands into our museums (Figs. 11 and 12); you will see a personage
adoring a star, still oftener you will find the sun's disk and the crescent moon figured upon
the field, with, perhaps, one or several stars. These images are only omitted upon reliefs
that are purely narrative and historical, like most of those in the Assyrian palaces. Everywhere
else, upon every object and in every scene having a religious and sacred character, a place
is reserved for the symbols in question, if we may call them so. Their presence is evidence
of the homage rendered by the Chaldæans to the stars, and of the faith they placed in their
supposed revelations. Further evidence to the same effect is given by the ancient writing,
in which the ideogram for king was a star.

"The imaginations of the Egyptians were mainly impressed by the daily and annual circlings
of the sun. In that body they saw the most imposing manifestation of the Deity and the clearest
exemplification of the laws that govern the world; to it, therefore they turned for their personifications
of the divine power."[105] The attention of the Chaldæans, on the other hand, was not so absorbed,
and, so to speak, lost, in the contemplation of a single star, superior though it was to all
others in its power for good or ill, and in its incomparable splendour. They watched the sky
with a curiosity too lively and too intelligent to permit of a willing sacrifice of all the
stars to one. Samas, the sun, and Sin, the moon-god, played an important rôle in their religion
and theology, but it does not appear that the gods of the other five planets were inferior
to them in rank. If we accept the parallels established by the Greeks and Romans, these were
Adar (Saturn), Merodach (Jupiter), Nergal (Mars), Istar (Venus), and Nebo (Mercury).

The chief atmospheric phenomena were also personified; of this we may give one example. All
travellers in Chaldæa agree in their descriptions of those sudden storms which burst on the
country from a clear sky, especially towards the commencement of summer. Without a single premonitory
symptom, a huge, black water-spout advances from some point on the horizon, its flanks shooting
lightnings and thunder. In a few minutes it reaches the traveller and wraps him in its black
vapours; the sand-laden wind blinds him, the rain pours upon him in solid sheets; but he has
hardly realized his position before the storm is past and the sun is again shining in the blue
depths above. But for torn and overthrown tents and trees uprooted or struck by the electric
fluid, a stranger to the country might almost believe himself to have been the sport of a dream.[106]

The force and suddenness of these visitations could hardly fail to impress the imagination
of a people exposed to them, and it is not surprising that Mesopotamia had its god of storms
and thunder. He, Raman, it is, perhaps, who is figured in the bas-relief from Nimroud reproduced
below (Figs. 13 and 14),[107] in which a god appears bearing an axe in his right hand, and,
in his left, a kind of faggot, whose significance might have escaped us but for the light thrown
upon it by classic sculpture. The latter no doubt borrowed a well-known form from the east,
and the object in question is nothing less than the thunderbolt given by Greek artists to their
Zeus.

It was this adoration of the stars and planets that led by degrees to what we call polytheism.
Man partitioned those terrible powers of nature of which he felt himself the sport, between
a vast number of agents, between crowds of genii upon whose mercies he thought himself dependent,
and whom he did his best to propitiate by gifts and to compel by magic. Little by little, intelligence
perfected that work of abstraction and simplification by which all races but those who have
stuck fast in the conceptions of their infancy have arrived at a single conclusion. Without
ceasing to believe in the existence of genii, they invented the gods, a race of beings far
more powerful, not only than short-lived man, but even than the confused army of demons, of
those beings who enjoyed the control of not a few of the mysterious agencies whose apparent
conflict and final accord are the causes of the life, movement, and equilibrium of the world.

When the intellect had arrived at this doctrine, calmness and serenity fell upon it. Each deity
became a person with certain well-defined powers and attributes, a person who could not escape
the apprehension and the appeals of mankind with the facility of the changing and fantastic
crowd of demons. His dwelling-place could be pointed out to the faithful, whether it were in
his own peculiar star, among the eternal snows upon the summits of the distant mountains, or
near at hand, in the temple built for him by his worshippers. Such a deity could be approached
like a sovereign whose honour and interest are bound up with his word. So long as by prayer,
and still more by sacrifices, the conditions were observed on the suppliant's side, the god,
invisible though he was, would do his duty and protect those with whom he had entered into
an unwritten contract.

But in order to establish this mutual relationship between gods and men, it was necessary that
the former should be brought within reach of the latter. With the development of the religious
sentiment and of definite and clear ideas as to the gods, the plastic faculty was called upon
for greater efforts than it had before made.

Something beside grimacing and monstrous images of genii was asked from it. Figures were demanded
which should embody something of the nobility and majesty attributed to the eternal masters
of the world. The divine effigy was the incarnation of the deity, was one of the forms in which
he manifested himself, it was, as the Egyptians would say, one of his doubles. Such an effigy
was required to afford a worthy frame for the supreme dignity of the god, and the house built
by man's hands in which he condescended to dwell had to be such that its superior magnificence
should distinguish it at a glance from the comparatively humble dwellings in which mortals
passed their short and fugitive lives.

It was thus that the temples and statues of the gods took form when the various deities began
to be clearly distinguished from one another, and, by a process of mental condensation, to
acquire a certain amount of consistence and solidity. The Chaldæan temples, unlike those of
Egypt and Greece, have succumbed to time, and the ancient texts in which they are described
are short and obscure. Their ruins are little more than shapeless heaps of débris. In endeavouring
to arrive at a clear understanding of the Chaldæan notions as to the gods, we are unable to
study, as we did elsewhere, the forms of their religious edifices, with their plans, dimensions,
and the instructive variety of decorative symbols and figures with which the sanctuary and
its dependencies were overspread.

On the other hand a sufficient number of figures of the gods have come down to us. They abound
upon small objects, such as cylinders, engraved stones, cones, scarabæi, the bezels of rings,
terra-cotta tablets and statuettes. They are also found, though less frequently, among the
débris of monumental sculpture, in the bas-reliefs of the Ninevite palaces, and even among
certain figures in the round which have been recovered from the ruins of these latter buildings.
We can therefore easily find out the particular attributes given by the artist as the interpreter
of the national beliefs to those gods whose visible bodies it was his office to create; we
can see what choice and combination of forms he thought best fitted to solve the problem presented
to him. But as yet we are not in a position to put a name to each even of the figures that
recur most frequently. In the case of Egypt there is no such difficulty: when we encounter
the image of one of her gods upon the walls of a temple or in the cases of a museum, we can
say without hesitation, "This is Osiris or Ptah," as the case may be, "Amen or Horus, Isis,
Sekhet, or Hathor." It is not so with Chaldæa. Figures are there often found uninscribed, and
even when an inscription is present it not seldom offers difficulties of interpretation which
have not yet been cleared up; for the divine names are usually ideograms. Only a few have been
identified beyond all doubt, those namely of which we have Hebrew or Greek transcriptions,
preserving for us the real Chaldæan original; Ilou, Bel, Nisroch, Beltis, Istar, are examples
of this. Hence it results that Assyriologists often feel no little embarrassment when they
are asked to point out upon the monuments the figures even of those gods of whose names they
are the least doubtful. The Assyrians and Chaldæans, like other nations of antiquity, had what
we should now call their figured mythology, but we are still imperfectly acquainted with it.
Even for those whom we may call the most exalted personages of the Chaldæan Olympus, scholars
have hardly succeeded in illustrating the texts by the monuments and explaining the monuments
by the texts; and we are yet far from being able to institute a perpetual and standard comparison
as we have done in the case of Egypt and still more in that of Greece, between the divine types
as they appear in religious formulæ and in the national poetry, and the same types when embodied
by the imagination of the artist.

A long time may elapse before a mythological gallery for Chaldæa, in which all the important
members of the Mesopotamian pantheon shall take their places and be known by the names they
bore in their own day, can be formed, but even now the principles upon which they were represented
by art may be stated. The images of the various gods were built up in great part by the aid
of combinations similar to those made use of in realizing the minor demons. A natural bent
towards such a method of interpretation was perhaps inherited from the days in which the naïve
adoration of all those animals which help or hurt mankind formed a part of the national worship;
again, certain animals were, by their shapes and constitution, better fitted than others to
personify this or that quality which, in its fulness, was considered divine. It was natural,
therefore, that the artist should, in those early days, have indicated the powers of a deity
by forms borrowed from the strongest, the most beautiful, or the most formidable of animals.
Nothing could suggest the instantaneous swiftness of a god better than the spreading wings
of an eagle or vulture, or his destructive and irresistible power better than their beaks and
talons, the horns and dewlap of the bull, or the mane and claws of the lion.

The sculptor had, therefore, a good reason for employing these forms and many others offered
to him by the fauna of the regions he inhabited. He introduced them into his work with skill
and decision, and obtained composite types by their aid which we may compare to those of Egypt.
But there were some differences which deserve to be remembered. The human face received more
consideration from the Mesopotamian sculptors than from those of Egypt. Except in the sphinxes
and in two or three less important types the Egyptians, as our readers will remember, crowned
a human body with the head of a snake, a lion, or a crocodile, an ibis or a hawk, and sometimes
of a clumsy beast like the hippopotamus,[108] and their figures are dominated and characterized
by the heads thus given to them. At Babylon and Nineveh the case is reversed. Animals' heads
are only found, as a rule, upon the shoulders of those figures which are looked upon by common
consent as genii rather than gods. In the latter a contrary arrangement prevails. They may
have, like Dagon, a fish's tail hanging down their backs, or, like the colossal guardians of
the king's palace, the body and limbs of a lion or bull with the wings of an eagle, but the
head is that of a man and the sculptor has given it all the beauty he could compass. To this,
we believe, there is but one exception--the eagle-headed god to whom Assyriologists have assigned
the name of Nisroch. He seems to have occupied a high place among the Mesopotamian divinities
(Fig. 8).

But the difference between the two systems does not end here. There are a few deities, such
as Ptah, Osiris, and Amen, to whom the Egyptians gave a human form in its simple entirety;
but even in such cases it was not reproduced in its native elegance and nobility. The extremities
of Ptah and Osiris were enveloped in a kind of sheath, which made their figures look more like
mummies than beings with the power of life and motion. It was not so in Chaldæa, as we shall
see if we examine the procedure of the Mesopotamian artist when he had to figure the greater
gods, those in whom the highest efforts of mental abstraction found concrete expression. Take,
for instance, Nebo, the god of intelligence and prophecy, and Istar, the personification of
the earth's fertility, of its power of creation and destruction and its inexhaustible energy.
Nebo stands upright, his head covered with a horned tiara: his ample beard is gathered into
three rows of close curls: he wears a long robe falling straight to the ground (Fig. 16). As
for Istar, she is a young woman, nude, large-hipped, and pressing her breasts with her hands
(Fig. 15). The awkwardness and rudeness which to some extent characterizes these figures is
due to the inexperience of the artist; his intentions were good, but his skill was hardly equal
to giving them full effect. His Nebo was meant to be as majestic as a king or high priest;
his Istar is the spouse, the mother, the nurse; she is the goddess "who," as the inscriptions
say,[109] "rejoices mankind," who, when fertilized by love, assures the duration and perpetuity
of the species. It was this method of interpretation that was in later years to lead to those
great creations of Greek art whose beauty is still the wonder of mankind. Between these Chaldæan
figures and those of the Greek sculptors the difference was one of degree. The anthropomorphism
of the Chaldees was franker than that of the Egyptians, and so far the art of Chaldæa was an
advance upon that of Egypt, although it was excelled by the latter in executive qualities.
The method to which it had committed itself, the diligent and passionate study of the human
figure, was the royal road to all excellence in the plastic arts.

But our present business is to discover this people's real conceptions of its gods and to get
a clear idea of their characteristic qualities. We shall not attempt, therefore, to show how
most of them belonged to one of those divine triads which are to be found, it is believed,
in Chaldæa as well as in Egypt: we shall not ask how these triads were subordinated, first,
one to another, and secondly, to a single supreme being, who, in Mesopotamia as elsewhere,
was in time perceived more or less clearly and placed at the head of the divine hierarchy.
These triads are nearly always found in polytheistic religions, and that for sufficiently obvious
reasons.

The most simple relationship offered by the organic world to the mind of man is the relationship
of the sexes, their contrast, and the necessity for their union. Wherever religious conceptions
spring up gods and goddesses are created together. All the forces divined by human intelligence
are doubled into two persons, closely united, the one the complement of the other. The one
has the active, the other the passive rôle. Egypt, Chaldæa, Greece, all had these divine couples;
Apsou, or, as Damascius calls him, Apason and Tauthé; Anou and Antou, the Anaïtis of the Greek
writers; Bel and Belit, or Beltu, perhaps the Greek Mylitta; Samas, the sun, and Allat, the
queen of the dead; Merodach (or Marduk) and Zarpanit, a goddess mother who protected unborn
infants and presided at births; Nabou and Nana; Assur and Istar; Dumouzi and Istar. Precise
details as to the status of these divinities are still wanting. Several among them seem to
have been at one time endowed with a distinct individuality, and at other periods to have been
almost indistinguishable from some other deity. They were without the distinct features and
attributes of the inhabitants of Olympus, but we are left in no doubt as to the binary divisions
of which we have been speaking.

The attraction of desire and the union of the sexes leads to the birth of the child; with the
appearance of the latter the family is complete, and, with it, the type upon which the triple
classification of the gods was founded. But even when we attempt to trace the composition of
a single group and to assign his proper place to each of its members, the embarrassment is
great. We find a single god sometimes filling, to all appearance, the rôle of husband and father,
and sometimes that of the son; or a single goddess acting at different times as the wife and
daughter of one and the same god. Some of these apparent contradictions must be referred to
the want of certainty in our interpretation of the inscriptions, some to the floating quality
of the conceptions to which they relate. It may never, perhaps, be possible to make out a complete
list, or one which shall not be obnoxious to criticism on other grounds; moreover, the historian
of art has no need to enter into any such discussion, or to give the details of a nomenclature
as to which Assyriologists themselves have many doubts. It suffices that he should point out
the multiplicity of couples and triads, the extreme diversity of deities, and thus indicate
a reason for the very peculiar aspect of the cylinders and engraved stones of Chaldæa, for
the complex forms of the gods, and for the multitude of varied symbols which encumber the fields
of her sculptured reliefs. Some of the figures that crowd these narrow surfaces are so fantastic
that they astonish the eye as much as they pique the curiosity (see Fig. 17).

The number of divine types and the consequent difficulties of classification are increased,
as in Egypt, by the fact that every important town had its local deities, deities who were
its own peculiar gods. In the course of so many centuries and so many successive displacements
of the political centre of gravity, the order of precedence of the Mesopotamian gods was often
changed. The dominant city promoted its own gods over the heads of their fellows and modified
for a time which might be long or short, the comparative importance of the Chaldæan divinities.
Sin, the moon god, headed the list during the supremacy of Ur, Samas during that of Larsam.
With the rise of Assyria its national god, Assur, doubtless a supreme god of the heavens, acquired
an uncontested pre-eminence. It was in his name that the Assyrians subdued all Asia and shed
such torrents of blood. Their wars were the wars of Assur; they were undertaken to extend his
empire and to glorify his name. Hence the extreme rigour, the hideous cruelty, of the punishments
inflicted by the king on his rebellious subjects; he was punishing heretics and apostates.[110]

In the religious effusions of Mesopotamia, we sometimes find an accent of exalted piety recalling
the tone of the Hebrew scriptures; but it does not appear that the monotheistic idea towards
which they were ever tending, but without actually reaching it and becoming penetrated by its
truth, had ever acquired sufficient consistence to stimulate the Chaldæan artist to the creation
of a type superior in beauty and nobility to those of gods in the second rank. The fact that
the idea did exist is to be inferred from the use of certain terms rather than from any mention
of it in theological forms or embodiment in the plastic arts.

At Nineveh, Assur was certainly looked upon as the greatest of the gods, if not as the only
god. Idols captured from conquered nations were sometimes restored to their worshippers, but
not before they had been engraved with the words, "To the glory of Assur." Assur was always
placed at the head of the divine lists. He is thought to be descended from Anou or Sin: but
he was raised to such a height by his adoption as the national deity, that it became impossible
to trace in him the distinguishing characteristics of his primary condition as a god of nature;
he became, like the Jehovah of the Israelites, a god superior to nature. His attributes were
of a very general kind, and were all more or less derived from his dignity as chief leader
and father, as master of legions and as president in the assemblies of the gods. He was regarded
as the supreme arbiter, as the granter of victory and of the spoils of victory, as the god
of justice, as the terror of evil doers and the protector of the just. The great god of the
Assyrians was, of course, the god of battles, the director of armies, and in that capacity,
the spouse of Istar, who was no less warlike than himself. His name was often used, in the
plural, to signify the gods in general, as that of Istar was used for the goddesses. No myth
has come down to us in which he plays the principal part, a fact which is to be accounted for
by his comparatively late arrival at a position of abstract supremacy.[111]

In the Babylon of the second Chaldee empire there was, it would seem, a double embodiment of
the divine superiority, in Merodach, the warrior god, the god of royalty, and Nebo the god
of science and inspiration. In Chaldæa the power of the priests and learned men did not yield
before that of the monarch. And yet a certain latent and instinctive monotheism may be traced
in its complex religion. There were, indeed, many gods, but one was raised above all the others,
and, whether they turned to Merodach or Nebo, the kings loved to style themselves the worshippers
of the "Lord of Lords," Bel Beli.[112]

Like Assur at Nineveh, this supreme deity was sometimes called, by abbreviation, Ilou, or god,
a term which was employed, with slight variants, by every nation speaking a Semitic tongue.[113]

But in spite of their aspirations and the august rôle assigned to their Merodach, their Nebo,
and their Assur, Chaldæa and Assyria succeeded no better than Egypt in giving a fit embodiment
to the sovereign moderator of the universe, to the king and common parent of gods and men.
Their art was without the skill and power required for the creation of an image which should
be worthy of the mental idea. Neither the temples of Nineveh nor those of Babylon had an Olympian
Jove.

Assur came nearer to the acquisition of a supreme and unique godhead than any of his rivals,
but we do not know with any certainty what features were his in plastic representations. Some
have recognized him in a group which often occurs on the historic bas-reliefs and cylinders,
here floating over a field of battle, there introduced into some scene of adoration. You are
at once struck by the similarity of the group in question to one of the commonest of Egyptian
symbols--the winged globe on the cornice of almost every temple in the Nile valley. Long before
they had penetrated as conquerors to Thebes and Memphis, the Assyrians may have found this
motive repeated a thousand times upon the ivories, the jewels, the various objects of luxury
which Phoenician merchants carried from the ports of the Delta to distribute over every neighbouring
country.[114]

The Assyrians appropriated the emblem in question, sometimes with hardly a modification upon
its Egyptian form (Fig. 18), but more often with an alteration of some significance. In the
centre of the symbol and between the outspread wings, appears a ring, and, within it, the figure
of a man draped in flowing robes and covered with a tiara. He is upright, in some cases his
right hand is raised as if in prayer, while his left grasps a strong bow (Fig. 19); in others
he is stretching his bow and about to launch a triple-headed arrow, which can be nothing but
a thunderbolt.

The meaning attached to this plastic group by the Assyrians is made clear to us by the important
place it held in the religious imagery of the Aryans of Media and Persia. These people, the
last born of the ancient Asiatic world, borrowed nearly the whole of their artistic motives
from their predecessors; they only modified their significance when the difference between
their religious notions and those of the inventors required it. Now, we find this symbol upon
the rocks of Behistan and Persepolis, where, according to texts the meaning of which is beyond
a doubt, it represents Ahura-Mazda. The name has changed, but we may fairly conclude that the
idea and intention remained the same. Both in Mesopotamia and in Iran this group was meant
to embody the notion of a supreme being, the master of the universe, the clement and faithful
protector of the chosen race by whom his images were multiplied to infinity.

       *       *       *       *       *

In this rapid analysis of the beliefs held by the dwellers on the Tigris and Euphrates, we
have made no attempt to discriminate between Chaldæa and Assyria. To one who looks rather to
similarities than to differences, the two peoples, brothers in blood and language, had, in
fact, but one religion between them. We possess several lists of the Assyrian gods and goddesses,
and when we compare them we find that they differ one from the other both in the names and
numbers of the deities inscribed upon them; but, with the exception of Assur, they contain
no name which does not also belong to Chaldæa. Nothing could be more natural. Chaldæa was the
mother-country of the Assyrians, and the intimate relations between the two never ceased for
a day. Even when their enmity was most embittered they could not dispense the one with the
other. Babylon was always a kind of holy city for the kings of Assyria; those among them who
chastised the rebellious Chaldæans with the greatest severity, made it a point of honour to
sacrifice to their gods and to keep their temples in repair. It was in Babylon, at Borsippa,
and in the old cities near the coast, that the priests chiefly dwelt by whom the early myths
had been preserved and the doctrines elaborated to which the inhabitants of Mesopotamia owed
the superiority of their civilization. The Assyrians invented nothing. Assur himself seems
only to have been a secondary form of some Chaldæan divinity, a parvenu carried to the highest
place by the energy and good fortune of the warlike people whose patron he was, and maintained
there until the final destruction of their capital city. When Nineveh fell, Assur fell with
her, while those gods who were worshipped in common by the people of the north and those of
the south long preserved their names, their fame, and the sanctity of their altars.

The religion of Nineveh differed from that of Babylon, however, in minor particulars, to which
attention has already been called.[115] A single system of theology is differently understood
by men whose manner and intellectual bent are distinct. Rites seem to have been more voluptuous
and sensual at Babylon than at Nineveh; it was at the former city that Herodotus saw those
religious prostitutions that astonished him by their immorality.[116] The Assyrian tendency
to monotheism provoked a kind of fanaticism of which no trace is to be found in Chaldæa. The
Ninevite conquerors set themselves to extend the worship of their great national god; they
sacrificed by hecatombs the presumptuous enemies who blasphemed the name of Assur. The sacrifice
of chastity was in favour at Babylon, that of life seemed to the Assyrians a more effectual
offering. A soldier people, they were hardened by the strife of centuries, by the perpetual
hardships of the battlefield, by the never-ending conflicts in which they took delight. Their
religious conceptions were, therefore, narrower and more stern, their rites more cruel than
those of their southern neighbours. The civilization of Babylon was more refined, men gave
themselves more leisure for thought and enjoyment; their manners were less rude, their ideas
less rigid and conservative; they were more inclined towards intellectual analysis and speculation.
So that when we find traces of the beliefs and useful arts of Mesopotamia on the coasts, and
even among the isles, of the Ægæan, the honour of them must be given to Babylon rather than
to Nineveh.

NOTES:

[82] The History of the Assyrians and Medes, which EUSEBIUS (Préparation évangélique, 1, 12,
and 41) attributes to the writer whom he calls ABYDENUS, dates perhaps from the period when
the Roman Empire turned its attention to the basin of the Euphrates and attempted to regain
possession of it. The few extant fragments of this author have been collected in Ch. MÜLLER'S
Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum, vol. iv. p. 279. We know nothing as to when he lived, but
he wrote in the Ionian dialect, as did ARRIAN in his book on India, and it would seem difficult
to put him later than the second century. It is probable that his undertaking belonged to that
movement towards research which began in the reign of Augustus and was prolonged to the last
years of the Antonines.

[83] Damaskiou diadochou aporiai kai luseis peri tôn prôtôn archôn (edition published by Kopp,
Frankfort-on-the-Main, 1826, 8vo), ch. 125. Ch. Émile RUELLE, Le Philosophe Damascius; Étude
sur sa Vie et ses Ouvrages, suivie de neuf Morceaux inédits, Extraits du Traité des premiers
Principes et traduits en Latin (in the Revue archéologique, 1861), fragments i. and ix.

[84] On this subject the reader should consult M. Fr. The English translation, dated 1877,
or, still better, the German version published at Jena in 1878 (Die Magie und Wahrsagekunst
der Chaldæer, 8vo), will be found more useful than the French original. Both are, in fact,
new editions, with fresh information.

[85] TIELE, Manuel de l'Histoire des Religions (Leroux, 1880, 8vo). In our explanation of the
Chaldæo-Assyrian religions we shall follow this excellent guide, supplementing it by information
taken from another work by the same author, Histoire comparée des anciennes Religions de l'Égypte
et des Peuples Sémitiques--both from the Dutch.

[86] A History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. pp. 47-57.

[87] At Erzeroum Mr. LAYARD heard of some Kurdish tribes to the south-west of that place who,
he was told, "are still idolatrous, worshipping venerable oaks, great trees, huge solitary
rocks, and other grand features of nature." Discoveries, p. 9.

[88] François LENORMANT, Les Bétyles (extracted from the Revue de l'Histoire des Religions,
p. 12):--"The cuneiform inscriptions mention the seven black stones worshipped in the principal
temple of Urukh in Chaldæa, which personify the seven planets." In the same paper a vast number
of facts are brought together which show how widely spread this worship was in Syria and Arabia,
and with what persistence it maintained itself, at least until the preaching of Islamism. It
would be easy to show that it still subsists in the popular superstitions.

[89] BEROSUS, fragment 1. § 3. in the Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum of CH. MÜLLER, vol. ii.
p. 496.

[90] VIRGIL, Bucolics, viii. 69. See in the edition of Benoist (Hatchette, 8vo, 1876) passages
cited from Horace and Ovid, which prove that the superstition in question was then sufficiently
widespread to enable poets to make use of it without too great a violation of probability.

[91] This was very clearly seen by the ancients. It could not be put better than by Cicero:
"Principio Assyrii, propter planitiem magnitudinemque regionum quas incolebant, cum cælum ex
omni parte patens et apertum intuerentur, trajectiones motusque stellarum observaverunt."--De
Divinatione, i. 1, 2.

[92] "Chaldæi ... diuturnâ observatione siderum scientiam putantur effecisse, ut prædeci posset
quid cuique eventurum et quo quisque fato natus esset."--CICERO, De Divinatione, i. 1, 2.

[93] This has been clearly shown by LAPLACE in the Précis de l'Histoire de l'Astronomie, which
forms the fifth book of his Exposition du Système du Monde (fifth edition). He gives a résumé
of what he believes to have been the chief results obtained by the Chaldæan astronomers (pp.
12-14 in the separate issue of the Précis 1821, 8vo). It would now, perhaps, be possible, thanks
to recent discoveries, to give more precise and circumstantial details than those of Laplace.
Vieweg, 4to, 1881). We refer those who are interested in these questions to this excellent
paper, of which but the first part has as yet been published (1882). All previous works upon
the subject are there quoted and discussed.

[95] "Sixty may be divided by any divisor of ten or twelve. Of all numbers that could be chosen
as an invariable denominator for fractions, it has most divisors."--FR. LENORMANT, Manuel d'Histoire
ancienne, vol. ii. p. 177, third edition.

[96] AURÈS, Sur le Système métrique assyrien, p. 16. A terra-cotta tablet, discovered in Lower
Chaldæa among the ruins of Larsam, and believed with good reason to be very ancient, bears
a list of the squares of the fractionary numbers between 1/60 2 and 60/60 2, or 1/60, calculated
with perfect accuracy (LENORMANT, Manuel, &c. vol. ii. p. 37). See also SAYCE, Babylonian Augury
by means of Geometrical Figures, in the Transactions of the Society of Biblical Archæology,
vol. iv. p. 302.

[97] LENORMANT, Manuel, &c. vol. ii. p. 177, third edition.

[98] Ibid. p. 37.

[99] LENORMANT, Manuel, vol. ii. pp. 175, 178, 180. G. SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries (London,
1876, 8vo), pp. 451, 452. RAWLINSON, Ancient Monarchies, vol. i. pp. 100, 101, fourth edition.
We know that the Astronomical Canon of Ptolemy begins with the accession of a king of Babylon
named Nabonassar, in 747 B.C. M. Fr. LENORMANT thinks that the date in question was chosen
by the Alexandrian philosopher because it coincided with the substitution, by that prince,
of the solar for the lunar year. Astronomical observations would thus have become much easier
to use, while those registered under the ancient system could only be employed after long and
difficult calculations. A reason is thus given for Ptolemy's contentment with so comparatively
modern a date. (Essai sur les Fragments cosmogoniques de Bérose, pp. 192-197.)

[100] See the paper by M. T. H. MARTIN, of Rennes, Sur les Observations astronomiques envoyées,
dit on, de Babylone en Grèce par Callisthène, Paris, 1863.

[101] The texts to this effect will be found collected in the essay of M. Martin. We shall
be content here with quoting a phrase from Cicero which expresses the general opinion: "Chaldæi
cognitione siderum sollertiaque ingeniorum antecellunt." De Divinatione, i. 91.

[102] PLINY, Natural History, vii. 57, 3. The manuscripts give 720, but the whole context proves
that figure to be far too low, neither does it accord with the writer's thought, or with the
other statements which he brings together with the aim of showing that the invention of letters
may be traced to a very remote epoch. The copyists have certainly omitted an M after the DCCXX.
Sillig, following Perizonius has introduced this correction into his text.

[103] LENORMANT, Manuel, &c. vol. ii. p. 175.

[104] G. SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, p. 407.

[105] LENORMANT, Manuel, &c. vol. ii. p. 181.

[106] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. i. p. 124. These storms hardly last an hour.

[107] Some Assyriologists believe this to represent Merodach.

[108] History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. pp. 56, 57, and figs. 39-45.

[109] RAWLINSON, The Five Great Monarchies, &c. vol. i. p. 139. The first volume of an English
translation, by James Ballingal, has been published in Trübner's Oriental Series.--ED.

[111] Ibid. p. 224.

[112] TIELE, Histoire, &c. p. 237.

[113] Hence the name Babylon, which has been handed down to us, slightly modified, by classic
tradition. The true Chaldæan form is Bab-Ilou, literally "The Gate of God."

[114] History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. pp. 399-400 and figs. 311-313.

[115] TIELE, Manuel, &c. pp. 77, 78.

[116] HERODOTUS, i. 99.

§ 7.--The People and Government.

We have already explained how it is that the religions of Chaldæa and Assyria are less well
known to us than that of Egypt; the insufficiency of our knowledge of the political and social
organization of the two kingdoms is to be explained by the same reasons. The inscriptions,
prolix enough on some subjects, hardly touch on others that would be much more interesting,
and, moreover, their interpretation is full of difficulty. The Greek travellers knew nothing
of Nineveh, while their visits to Babylon were paid in its years of decadence. They seem to
have been chiefly struck with the sort of sacerdotal caste to which they gave the name of Chaldaioi.

The origin of this priestly corps has been much discussed. Some see in it the descendants and
heirs of the primitive population, of those whom they believe to have been Turanians; others
believe them to have been Semitic immigrants, coming from the north and bringing with them
arts and doctrines of which they constituted themselves the guardians and expounders in the
new country. We are hardly qualified to take part in the controversy. It is certain, on the
one hand, that the influence of these quasi-clergy began to make itself felt at a remote period
in the national history, and, on the other, that they had become, like the population that
bowed before them, Semitic both in race and language at a very early date. The idiom employed
by the Chaldæans belongs to the same family of languages as Arabic, Hebrew, and Aramæan; their
gods are to be found, with slight modifications of name and attributes, from Yemen in the south
to the north of Syria and as far west as the table-land of Cappadocia.

It is, no doubt, upon the authority of Ctesias, his favourite guide in matters of oriental
history, that Diodorus talks of the Chaldæans. Ctesias may have seen them at Babylon, in the
exercise of their functions, in the time of Artaxerxes Mnemon. "The Chaldæans," writes the
historian, "are the most ancient Babylonians ... (and) hold the same station and dignity in
the commonwealth as the Egyptian priests do in Egypt; for, being deputed to divine offices,
they spend all their time in the study of philosophy, and are especially famous for the art
of astrology. They are mightily given to divination, and foretell future events, and employ
themselves either by purifications, sacrifices, or other enchantments to avert evils, or procure
good fortune and success. They are skilful, likewise, in the art of divination by the flying
of birds, and interpreting of dreams and prodigies; and are reputed as the oracles (in declaring
what will come to pass) by their exact and diligent viewing of the entrails of the sacrifices.
But they attain not to this knowledge in the same manner as the Greeks; for the Chaldæans learn
it by tradition from their ancestors, the son from the father, who are all in the meantime
free from all other public offices and attendances; and because their parents are their tutors,
they both learn everything without envy, and rely with more confidence upon the truth of what
is taught them; and being trained up in this learning from their very childhood, they become
most famous philosophers, being at the age most capable of learning."[117]

Centuries were required for the growth of such a corporation and for the firm establishment
of its power upon a well-knit system of rites and doctrines. The institutions described by
Ctesias would hardly show any sensible change from those in force in the same country before
the Persian conquests. In their double character of priests and astrologers the Chaldæans would
enjoy an almost boundless influence over both kings and private individuals; the general belief
in their powers of divination made them in a sense the masters and arbiters of every destiny.
Under the national kings "members of their caste led the national armies and occupied all the
chief posts in the kingdom." The royal houses that succeeded one another at Babylon sprang
from their ranks both in the days of vassalage to Assyria and in those of full independence.
Their hierarchy was headed by an archimagus; we do not know his title in the national language,
but we do know that, after the king, he was the chief person in the empire. He accompanied
the sovereign wherever he went, even to the wars, in order to regulate his actions according
to the rules of his art and the indications of the heavens. When the king died and his successor
was not on the spot to assume the reins of government, the archimagus was regent during the
interregnum, as, for instance, between the death of Nabopolassar and the accession of Nebuchadnezzar.[118]

The almost theocratic character of this régime had both its advantages and its inconveniences.
These priests were the savants of their time. The honours that were paid to them must have
had their effect in stimulating intellectual culture and material well being, but, on the other
hand, the constant intervention of a sacerdotal body in public affairs could not but do something
to enfeeble the military spirit and the energy and responsibility of the commanders. Not that
the priests were less penetrated by the national sentiment than their fellow countrymen. Proud
of their ancient traditions and of the superiority of their science, they added contempt to
the detestation they felt for a foreign master, whether he came from Babylon or Susa. The priests
were the ringleaders in those risings against Assyria, and, in later years, against Persia,
which cost Babylon so dearly. Once only was the success they promised achieved, and that was
in the time of Nabopolassar, when Nineveh was exhausted by its long succession of wars and
victories. On every other occasion the upper hand remained with races less instructed, indeed,
and less refined, but among whom the power concentrated in the hands of the sovereign had been
utilized to drive all the vital forces of the kingdom into the practice of war and preparation
for it.

On the other hand, Babylon enjoyed certain elements of prosperity and guarantees of a long
national existence which were wanting to those rivals under whose yoke she had more than once
to pass. The ruling classes in Chaldæa were quicker in intellect and far better educated than
elsewhere. Their country lent itself to a wide and well-organised system of cultivation better
than the hilly districts of Assyria or the narrow valleys and sterile plains of Iran. Communication
was more prompt and easy than among the terraces which rise one above another from the left
bank of the Euphrates up to the high lands of Persia and Media: in order to pass from one of
these terraces to another, the bare rock has to be climbed in a fashion that brings no little
danger to the traveller and his patient beasts of burden.[119] In Chaldæa, on the other hand,
the proximity of the two rivers to each other, and the perfect horizontality of the soil, make
the work of irrigation very easy. The agriculturists were not exposed to the danger of a complete
failure of crops, a misfortune which overtook the upper regions of Mesopotamia often enough.
There the Euphrates and Tigris are wide apart, and the land between them is far from being
a dead level. Many districts had to depend almost entirely upon the rainfall for irrigation.
Again, when it was a question of journeying from one city to another or transporting the produce
of the fields, the Chaldæan could choose between the land routes that lay along the banks of
the canals, or the waterways that intersected each other over the whole surface of the country.
In these days the journey between Bagdad and Bassorah, a distance of some three hundred miles,
involves a long detour to the east along the foot of the mountains, in order to avoid impassable
marshes and bands of wandering Arabs devoted to murder and pillage. The flat country is infested
with mounted brigands who strip unprotected travellers, but in ancient times it swarmed with
traffic, every road was encumbered with the movements of merchandise and the march of caravans,
the fields were crossed in every direction by canals, and the tall sails of the boats that
moved between their banks rose over the waving crops as they do to-day in the deltas of the
Meuse and the Rhine, for Chaldæa was a southern Holland.

The incomparable situation of Babylon was sure to lead to great industrial and commercial activity
in spite of any shortcomings in her rulers. She stood in the centre of a marvellously fertile
region, between upper and western Asia. Two great rivers were at her doors, bringing her, without
cost or effort, the products of their upper basins, while, on the other hand, they placed her
in easy communication with the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. The merchants of Babylon
had communication with the people of the Levant by easy and well-worn roads crossing the fords
of the middle Euphrates. Less direct roads farther to the north were used nearly as much. Some
of these traversed the Cilician passes, crossed the Amanus and Taurus into the plateau of Asia
Minor, and ended at the coasts of the Ægæan and the Euxine; others passed through Assyria into
Media, and through the Caspian passes up to the central plateau of Asia and into distant Bactria,
whence easy passes led down into the upper valley of the Indus. Babylon was thus an entrepôt
for caravans both from the east and west, and for navigators coming from the ports of Africa,
Arabia, and India.

There are, if we may use the expression, natural capitals and capitals that are artificial.
The sites of the first are determined by the configuration of the earth. When they perish it
is but a temporary death, to be followed by a life often more full and brilliant than the first.
The second owe their prosperity to the caprice of a sovereign, or to political combinations
that pass away and leave no trace. Thebes and Nineveh were artificial cities; both have disappeared
and left behind them nothing but their ruins; they have been replaced only by villages and
unimportant towns. On the other hand, Memphis lives again in Cairo, and, when the depopulation
of Babylon was complete, Seleucia and Ctesiphon, Kouffa and Bagdad sprang up to carry on her work.

The centre of a refined civilization and of wide-stretching commercial relations, Babylon could
not have been without an original art, and one marked with the peculiar characteristics of
the national genius. Unhappily, the materials at her command were far inferior to those of
which the Egyptians and Greeks could dispose. From this it has resulted that, on the one hand,
her productions never passed a certain level of excellence, and, on the other, that they have
been ill preserved. The Babylonians were not among those happy peoples whose artists could
exercise their tools upon the one material that gives birth to great sculptors and great architects--a
stone soft enough to yield kindly to the chisel, but hard enough to preserve to eternity the
suggestive forms impressed upon it by the hand of man.

Our knowledge, therefore, of Chaldæan art will bear no comparison with what we have discovered
as to the art of Egypt and Greece, of Etruria and Rome. So far as we can form a judgment from
the remains that have come down to us, it was an art much less varied and comprehensive than
that of Egypt. The tombs of Memphis and Thebes, with their pictured walls, reflect, as in a
faithful mirror, the most interesting and most amusing of all spectacles, the daily life of
the oldest of all civilized societies. In Chaldæa there is nothing of the kind. The Chaldæan
tomb gives us, by its arrangement and furnishing, glimpses of a faith similar at bottom to
that of Egypt, but we find nothing parallel to the representations of daily work and pleasure
which fill the mastabas and the Theban sepulchres; there is nothing that can be compared to
those animated forms and images that play over again on the tomb walls the long drama of a
hundred acts whose first performance occupied so many centuries and filled a stage stretching
from the swamps of the Delta to the cataracts of Syene. We are more especially grateful to
these funerary scenes for handing down to us, in a safe niche in the temple of the arts, those
poor and humble folk who count for so little in this world where they bear the heaviest burdens,
who depend for remembrance after death upon the services they render to the great. We shall
search in vain among the scanty remnants of Babylonian sculpture for the attitude, gestures,
and features of the laborious workmen upon whom the prosperity of the country was built. We
shall find neither the tradesmen and artisans of the towns, nor the agriculturists who cultivated
the fields and gave them the water for which they never ceased to thirst. No hint is given
of those fishermen of the Persian Gulf who lived entirely, according to Herodotus, upon dried
fish ground to powder and made into a kind of cake.[120] The naive, picturesque, and anecdotic
illustrations of common life, which are so plentiful in Egypt, are almost completely wanting
to the art of Chaldæa.

On the other hand, we find, as we might have expected from what we know of Chaldæan society,
continual traces of the sacerdotal spirit, and of the great part played by the king with the
help and under the tutelage of the priesthood. Upon the walls of palaces, temples, and towns,
on the statuettes of bronze and terra-cotta which were buried under the thresholds of buildings
and placed as votive offerings in the temples, upon cylinders and engraved stones, we find
only complex and varied emblems, fantastic and symbolic forms, attitudes suggestive of worship
and sacrifice (Figs. 20 and 21), images of gods, goddesses, and secondary genii, princes surrounded
with royal pomp and offering their homage to the deity. Hence a certain poverty and monotony
and the want of recuperative power inseparable from an absorbed contemplation of sacred types
and of a transcendental world.

]

Assyrian society was different in many respects from that of Chaldæa. The same gods, no doubt,
were adored in both countries, and their worship involved a highly-placed priesthood; but at
Nineveh the royal power rested on the army, and the initiative and independence of the sovereign
were much greater than in the case of Babylon. Assyria was a military monarchy in the fullest
sense of the word. Almost as often as the spring came round the king led his invincible legions
to the conquest of new subjects for Assur. He traversed deserts, crossed trackless mountain
chains, and plunged into forests full of hidden dangers. He destroyed the walls and towers
of hostile cities, in spite of the rain of arrows, stones, and boiling pitch that poured upon
himself and his hosts; he was at once the skilful captain and the valiant soldier, he planned
the attack and never spared himself in the mêlée. First in danger, he was the first in honour.
In person he implored the good will of the god for whom he braved so many dangers, in person
he thanked him for success and presented to him the spoils of the conquered enemy. If he was
not deified, like the Pharaohs, either alive or after his death, he was the vicar of Assur
upon earth, the interpreter of his decrees and their executor, his lieutenant and pontif, and
the recipient of his confidences.[122]

There was no room by the side of this armed high priest for a sacerdotal caste at all equal
to him in prestige. The power and glory of the king grew with every successive victory, and
in the vast empire of the Sargonids, the highest places were filled by men whom the monarch
associated with himself in the never-ending work of conquest and repression. First of all came
a kind of grand vizier, the Tartan, or commander-in-chief of the royal armies. This is the
personage we so often find in the bas-reliefs facing the king and standing in an attitude at
once dignified and respectful (see Fig. 22). Next came the great officers of the palace, the
ministers as we should call them in modern parlance, and the governors of conquered provinces.
Eunuchs were charged with the supervision of the harem and, as in the modern East, occupied
high places at court. They may be recognized in the bas-reliefs, where they are grouped about
the king, by their round, beardless faces (see Figs. 23 and 24). The Kislar-Aga is, in the
Constantinople of to-day what more than one of these personages must have been in Nineveh.
Read the account given by Plutarch, on the authority of Ctesias, of the murderous and perfidious
intrigues that stained the palace of Susa in the time of Artaxerxes-Mnemon. You will then have
some idea of the part, at once obscure and preponderant, that the more intelligent among these
miserable creatures were able to play in the households of the great conquerors and unwearied
hunters by whom the palaces at Khorsabad, Kouyundjik, and Nimroud, were successively occupied.

All these military officers and administrators, these priests of the different gods, and the
domestics who were often the most powerful of all, looked to the hand of the king himself and
depended upon no other master. Courage and military talent must have been the surest roads
to advancement, but sometimes, as under the Arab caliphs and the Ottoman sultans, the caprice
of the sovereign would lead him to raise a man from the lowest ranks to the highest dignities
of the state. The régime of Assyria may be described in the words applied to that of Russia,
it was despotism tempered with assassination. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead."[123]
Sennacherib's father, Sargon, perished in the same fashion.

These murders were, perhaps, the revenge for some outrage or punishment imprudently inflicted
in a moment of anger; but however that may have been, neither in the one case nor the other
did they hinder the legitimate heir from succeeding his father. Sennacherib replaced Sargon,
and Esarhaddon Sennacherib. The Assyrian supremacy was only supported by the constant presence,
at the head of the army, of a king ready for every eventuality; a few weeks of anarchy or interregnum
would have thrown the whole empire into confusion; the royal power was the keystone of the
arch, the element upon which depended the stability of a colossal edifice subjected to various
strains. In such a society, art could hardly have had a mission other than the glorification
of a power without limit and without control--a power to which alone the Assyrians had to look
for a continuance of their dearly-won supremacy. The architect, the sculptor, and the painter,
exhausted the resources of their arts, the one in building a palace for the prince on a high
mound raised to dominate the surrounding plain, the others in decorating it when built and
multiplying the images of its almost divine inhabitant. The exploits of the sovereign, his
great and never-ending achievements as a conqueror and destroyer of monsters, as pontif of
Assur and the founder of palaces and cities--such are the themes to which Assyrian sculpture
devoted itself for many centuries, taking them up and varying them in countless ways, and that,
apparently, without any fear that he for whom the whole work was intended would ever grow weary
of the repetition.

Such themes presuppose the actual occurrence of the events represented and the artists' realization
either from personal observation or from descriptions. This gives rise to a very sensible difference
between Chaldæan sculpture and that of Assyria, so far at least as the latter is to be studied
in the decorations of a palace. In those characteristics and qualities of execution which permit
of a definition, the style is no doubt the same as in Chaldæa. The artists of Babylon and those
of Nineveh were pupils in one school--they saw nature with the same eyes; the same features
interested and attracted the attention of both; they had the same prejudices and the same conventions.
The symbols and combinations of forms we have noticed as proper to Chaldæan art are here also;
scenes of invocation to gods and genii; ornamental groups and motives. An instance of the latter
is to be found in the rich embroidery with which the robes of the Assyrian kings are covered.[124]
Finally, we must remember that all Assyrian art was not included in the adornment of the palace.
Before a complete and definite judgment can be formed upon it the monuments of religious and
industrial art should be passed under review, but, unhappily, no temple interior, and a very
small number of objects of domestic luxury and daily use, have come down to us. These gaps
are to be regretted, but we must not forget that the bas-reliefs were ordered by the king,
that the thousands of figures they contain were introduced for the sake of giving éclat to
the power, the valour, and the genius of the sovereign, and that the best artists of which
Assyria could boast were doubtless entrusted with their execution. Under the reserves thus
laid down we may, then, devote ourselves to the study of the Ninevite sculptures that fill
the museums of London and Paris; we may consider them the strongest and most original creations
of Assyrian art.

Now the sculpture upon the alabaster slabs with which the palace walls of Shalmaneser and Sargon,
of Sennacherib and Assurbanipal, were covered, confines itself mainly to marches, combats,
and sieves, it is more realistic than the sculpture of Chaldæa, a country that had done less,
especially upon fields of battle, but had invented more and done more thinking than its bellicose
rival. We owe no small debt of gratitude to the swordsmen of Assyria, in spite of the blood
they shed and the horrible cruelties they committed and delighted in seeing commemorated in
the figured histories of their reigns. The works entrusted to their artists have left us precious
documents and the elements for a restoration of a vanished world. Philologists may take their
time over the decipherment of the texts inscribed on the reliefs, but the great people of prey
who, for at least four centuries, pillaged all Asia without themselves becoming softened by
the possession of so much accumulated wealth, live, henceforward, in the long series of pictures
recovered for the world by Layard and Botta. The stern conquerors reappear, armed, helmeted,
and cuirassed, as they passed before the trembling nations thirty centuries ago. They are short
of stature, but vigorous and sturdy, with an exceptional muscular development. They were, no
doubt, prepared for their military duties from infancy by some system of gymnastic exercises,
such as have been practised by other nations of soldiers. Their noses are high and hooked,
their eyes large, their features as a whole strongly Semitic (see Fig. 25).

The moral character of the people is shown with no less clearness. The ferocity they preserved
amid all the luxurious appliances of their civilization is commemorated. Atrocities of every
kind find a place in the reliefs. Among the prisoners of war the most fortunate are those led
by a cord passed through their lips. Others are mutilated, crucified, flayed alive. Tiglath
Pileser II. is shown to us besieging a city, before whose walls he has impaled three prisoners
taken from the defenders (see Fig. 26). Elsewhere we find scribes counting over heaps of heads
before paying the price for them.[125] When these had come from the shoulders of important
enemies they were carried in procession and treasured as honourable trophies. In one relief
we find Assurbanipal, after his return to Nineveh from the subjugation of the southern rebels,
lying upon a luxurious couch in the garden of his harem and sharing a sumptuous meal with a
favoured wife. Birds are singing in the trees, an attendant touches the harp, flowers and palms
fill the background, while a head, the head of the Elamite king, whom Assurbanipal conquered
and captured in his last campaign, hangs from a tree near the right[126] of the scene (see
Figs. 27 and 28). The princes who took pleasure in these horrors were scrupulous in their piety.
We find numberless representations of them in attitudes of profound respect before their gods,
and sometimes they bring victims and libations in their hands (see Fig. 29). Thus, without
any help from the inscriptions, we may divine from the sculptures alone what strange contrasts
were presented by the Assyrian character--a character at once sanguinary and voluptuous, brutal
and refined, mystical and truculent.

It is not only by what it says, it is by what it leaves untold, by what it forgets to tell,
that art has left us such a sincere account of this singular nation. The king and his lieutenants,
his ministers and household officers, the veterans who formed the strength of his legions and
the young men from whom their numbers were recruited, did not constitute the whole of the Assyrian
nation. There were also the tillers of the soil, the followers of those countless trades implied
by a civilized society--the peasants, artisans, and merchants of every kind, who fed, clothed,
and equipped the armies; the men who carried on the useful but modest work without which the
fighting machine must soon have come to a standstill. And yet they are entirely absent from
the sculptures in which the artist seems to have included everything that to him seemed worthy
of interest. We meet them here and there, but only by accident. They may be descried now and
then in the background of some scene of war, acting as labourers or in some other humble capacity.
Otherwise the sculptor ignored their existence. They were not soldiers, which was much as to
say they were nothing. Can any other instance be cited of an art so well endowed entirely suppressing
what we should call the civil element of life? Neither do we find women in the bas-reliefs:
that in which the queen of Assurbanipal occurs is quite unique in its way. Except in scenes
representing the capture of a town and the carrying off of its inhabitants as prisoners of
war, females are almost entirely wanting. On those occasions we sometimes find them carried
on mules or in chariots (see Figs. 30 and 31). In certain bas-reliefs of Assurbanipal, treating
of his campaign against Susa, women are playing the tambourine and singing the king's praises.
But all these are exceptions. Woman, whose grace and beauty were so keenly felt by the Egyptians,
is almost completely absent from the sculpture of Assyria.

By thus limiting its scope, sculpture condemned itself to much repetition and to a uniformity
not far removed from sameness; but its very silences are eloquent upon the inhuman originality
of a system to which Assyria owed both the splendour of her military successes and the finality
of her fall. The great entrenched camp, of which Nineveh was the centre, once forced; the veteran
ranks, in which constant war, and war without quarter, had made such wide gaps, once broken,
nothing remained of the true Assyria but the ignorant masses of a second-class state to whom
a change of masters had little meaning, and a few vast buildings doomed soon to disappear under
their own ruins.

When we have completed our examination of Assyrian sculpture, so rich in some respects, so
poor in others, we shall understand the rapidity with which silence and oblivion overtook so
much glory and power; we shall understand how some two centuries after the victory of Nabopolassar
and the final triumph of Babylon and her allies, Xenophon and his Greeks could mount the Tigris
and gaze upon the still formidable walls of the deserted cities of Mespila and Larissa without
even hearing the name of Nineveh pronounced. Eager for knowledge as they were, they passed
over the ground without suspecting that the dust thrown up by their feet had once been a city
famous and feared over all Asia, and that the capital of an empire hardly less great than that
of the Artaxerxes whom they had faced at Cunaxa, had once covered the ground where they stood.

NOTES:

[117] DIODORUS, ii. 29.

[118] Fr. LENORMANT, Manuel de l'Histoire ancienne de l'Orient, vol. ii. p. 252.

[119] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches in Chaldæa and Susiana, p. 309. The Greeks gave the appropriate
name of klimakes to those stepped roads that lead from the valley and the sea coast to the
high plains of Persia.

[120] HERODOTUS, i. 200. A similar article of food is in extensive use at the present day in
the western islands of Scotland, and upon other distant coasts where the soil is poor.--ED.

[121] Upon the subject of this cylinder, in which George Smith wished to recognize a representation
of Adam and Eve tempted by the serpent, see M. JOACHIM MÉNANT'S paper entitled, La Bible et
les Cylindres Chaldéens (Paris, 1880, Maisonneuve, 8vo). M. Ménant makes short work of this
forced interpretation and of several similar delusions which were beginning to win some acceptance.

[122] Upon the sacred functions of the king, see LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 474.

[123] 2 Kings xix. 37.

[124] LAYARD, The Monuments of Nineveh (folio, 1849), plates 43-50.

[125] LAYARD, A Second Series of the Monuments of Nineveh (folio, 1853), plates 26 and 27.
The scribes in question seem to be writing upon rolls of leather.

[126] Throughout this work the words "right" and "left" refer to the right and left of the
cuts, not of the reader. By this system alone can confusion be avoided in describing statues
and compositions with figures.--ED.

CHAPTER II.

THE PRINCIPLES AND GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ASSYRO-CHALDÆAN ARCHITECTURE.

§ 1.--Materials.

Chaldæa was the cradle of the civilization, and consequently of the art, whose characteristics
we have to define. Now the soil of Chaldæa to a great depth beneath the surface is a fine loose
earth, similar to that of the Nile Delta. At a few points only on the plain, and that near
the Persian Gulf, are there some rocky eminences, the remains of ancient islands which the
gradual encroachment of the two great rivers has joined to the mainland of Asia. Their importance
is so slight that we may fairly ignore their existence and assert generally that Chaldæa has
no stone. Like all great rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates in the upper and middle parts of
their courses carry down pieces of rock from their native mountains, but after they enter upon
the alluvial ground near the boundary between Assyria and Chaldæa their streams become sluggish,
and these heavy bodies sink to the bottom and become embedded in the soil; the water no longer
carries on with it anything but the minute particles which with the passage of centuries form
immense banks of clay. In the whole distance between Bagdad and the sea you may take a spade,
and, turn up the soil wherever you please, you will not find a stone as big as a nut.

In this absence of a natural stone something had to be found to take its place, and the artificial
material we call brick was invented. The human intellect refuses to give up the contest with
nature before the first obstacles that seem to bar its progress; if it cannot brush them aside
it turns their flank. The least accident is often enough to suggest the desired expedient.
The origin of almost all the great discoveries that are studded over the history of civilization
may be traced to some lucky chance. The first inhabitants of Chaldæa fashioned rude kitchens
for the cooking of their simple food out of moist and plastic clay, the fires of reed and broken
wood lighted on these simple hearths reddened and hardened the clay till it became like rock.
Some bystander more observant than the rest noted the change and became the father of ceramics.
We use the word in its widest, in its etymological sense. Ceramics is the art of fashioning
clay and burning it in the fire so as to obtain constructive materials, domestic utensils,
or objects of luxury and ornament.[127]

Even before the first brick or pottery kiln was erected it must have been recognized that in
a climate like that of Chaldæa the soil when dried in the sun was well fitted for certain uses.
Among the débris left by the earliest pioneers of civilization we find the remains of vases
which seem to have been dried only in the sun. But porous and friable pottery like this could
only be used for a few purposes, and it was finally renounced as soon as the art of firing
the earth, first in the hot ashes of the domestic hearth, and afterwards in the searching flames
of the close oven, was discovered. It was otherwise with brick. The desiccation produced by
the almost vertical sun of Mesopotamia allowed it to be used with safety and advantage in certain
parts of a building. In that condition it is called crude brick, to distinguish it from the
harder material due to the direct heat of wood fires.

In any case the clay destined for use as a building material was subject to a first preparation
that never varied. It was freed from such foreign bodies as might have found their way into
it, and, as in Egypt, it was afterwards mixed with chopped or rather pulverized straw, a proceeding
which was thought to give it greater body and resistance. It was then mixed with water in the
proportions that experience dictated, and kneaded by foot in wide and shallow basins.[128]
The brickmakers of Mossoul go through the same process to this day.

As soon as the clay was sufficiently kneaded, it was shaped in almost square moulds. In size
these moulds surpassed even those of Egypt: their surfaces were from 15-1/4 to 15-1/2 inches
square, and their thickness was from 2 to 4 inches.[129] It would seem that these artificial
blocks were given this extravagant size to make up for the absence of stone properly speaking;
the only limit of size seems to have been that imposed by difficulties of manufacture and handling.

Crude brick never becomes hard enough to resist the action of water. In Greek history we read
how Agesipolis, King of Sparta, when besieging Mantinea, directed the stream of the Ophis along
the foot of its walls of unburnt brick, and so caused them to crumble away. Cimon, son of Miltiades,
attacked the defences of Eion, on the Strymon, in the same fashion. When desiccation was carried
far enough, such materials could be used, in interiors at least, so as to fulfil the same functions
as stone or burnt brick. Vitruvius tells us that the magistrates who had charge of building
operations at Utica would not allow brick to be used until it was five years old.[130] It would
seem that neither in Chaldæa nor still less in Assyria was any such lengthy restriction imposed.
It is only by exception that crude bricks of which the desiccation has been carried to the
farthest possible point have been found in the palaces of Nineveh; almost the only instance
we can give is afforded by the bricks composing the arches of the palace doorways at Khorsabad.
They are rectangular, and into the wedge-shaped intervals between their faces a softer clay
has been poured to fill up the joints.[131] As a rule things were done in a much less patient
fashion. At the end of a few days, or perhaps weeks, as soon, in fact, as the bricks were dry
and firm enough to be easily handled, they were carried on to the ground and laid while still soft.

This we know from the evidence of M. Place, who cut many exploring shafts through the massive
Assyrian buildings, and could judge of the condition in which the bricks had been put in place
by the appearance of his excavations. From top to bottom their sides showed a plain and uniform
surface; not the slightest sign of joints was to be found. Some might think that the bricks,
instead of being actually soft, were first dried in the sun and then, when they came to be
used, that each was dipped in water so as to give it a momentary wetness before being laid
in its place. M. Place repels any such hypothesis. He points out that, had the Assyrian bricklayers
proceeded in that fashion, each joint would be distinguishable by a rather darker tint than
the rest of the wall. There is nothing of the kind in fact. The only things that prove his
excavations to have been made through brick and not through a mass of earth beaten solid with
the rammer are, in the first place, that the substance cut is very homogeneous and much more
dense than it would have been had it not been kneaded and pressed in the moulds; and, secondly,
that the horizontal courses are here and there to be distinguished from each other by their
differences of tint.[132]

The art of burning brick dates, in the case of Chaldæa, from a very remote epoch. No tradition
subsisted of a period when it was not practised. After the deluge, when men wished to build
a city and a tower which should reach to heaven, "they said to one another, Go to, let us make
brick, and burn them throughly; and they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar."[133]

The Babylonian bricks were, as a rule, one Chaldæan foot (rather more than an English foot)
square. Their colour varies in different buildings from a dark red to a light yellow,[134]
but they are always well burnt and of excellent quality. Nearly all of them bear an inscription
to the following effect: "Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, restorer of the pyramid and the
tower, eldest son of Nabopolassar, King of Babylon, I." In laying the brick the face bearing
this inscription was turned downwards. The characters were impressed on the soft clay with
a stamp. More than forty varieties have already been discovered, implying the existence of
as many stamps (see Fig. 32). In Assyria these inscriptions were sometimes stamped, sometimes
engraved with the hand (Fig. 33).

Most of the bricks are regular in shape, with parallel and rectangular faces, but a few wedge-shaped
ones have been found, both in Chaldæa and Assyria. These must have been made for building arches
or vaults. Their obliquity varies according to their destined places in the curve.[135]

The body of the enamelled bricks differs from that of the ordinary kind. It is softer and more
friable, appearing to be scarcely burnt.[136] This difference, at which M. Place was so much
surprised, had its reason. The makers understood that their enamel colours when vitrified would
penetrate deeper into and be more closely incorporated with the material upon which they were
placed were the latter not so completely hardened.

Crude brick, burnt brick, and brick enamelled, those were the only materials at the command
of the architect, in the cities, at least, of Chaldæa. A few fragments of basalt and diorite
have certainly been found in their ruins, especially at Tello, recently excavated by M. de
Sarzec; but we can easily tell from the appearance of these blocks that they played a very
subordinate part in the buildings into which they were introduced. Some of them seem to have
been employed as a kind of decoration in relief upon the brick walls; others, and those the
most numerous, appear to have been used in the principal entrances to buildings. Upon one face
a semicircular hollow or socket may be noticed, in which the foot of the bronze pivots, or
rather the pivot shod and faced with bronze, upon which the heavy timber doors and their casings
of metal were hung, had to turn. The marks of the consequent friction are still clearly visible.[137]
The dimensions of these stones are never great, and it is easy to see that their employment
for building purposes was always of the most restricted nature. They had indeed to be brought
from a great distance. The towns upon the Persian Gulf might get them from Arabia.[138] Babylon
and Nineveh must have drawn them from the upper valleys of the Tigris and Euphrates.[139] But
quarrying and transport involved an expenditure that prevented any thought of bringing these
volcanic rocks into common use.

Compared with the towns of the lower Euphrates, Babylon was not far from mountains whence,
by means of canals and rivers, she might have easily obtained a limestone of good quality.
Even in these days, when commerce and industry have fallen so low in those regions, the gypseous
alabaster from the neighbourhood of Mossoul is transported in no unimportant quantities as
far as Bagdad. It is used for lining baths and those serdabs to which the people retreat in
summer.[140]

The remains of the great capital show no trace of dressed stone. And yet it was used during
the second empire in some of the great public works undertaken by Nabopolassar and more especially
by Nebuchadnezzar. Herodotus, who saw Babylon, declares this in the most formal manner in his
description of the bridge which then united, for the first time, the two banks of the Euphrates.
While the river was bordered by quays of burnt brick, the bridge, says the historian, "was
built of very large stones, bound together with iron clamps embedded in lead."[141]

That, however, was but one exception, and it was necessitated by the very nature of the work
to be carried out. No cement was to be had which could resist the action of water for an indefinite
period and maintain the coherence of brickwork subjected to its unsleeping attacks. In order
to obtain piers capable of withstanding the current during the great floods, it was better
too to use blocks of considerable weight, which could be held together by metal tenons or clasps.

It was but at rare intervals that buildings had to be erected in which the habits of ages had
to be thus abandoned. Why is it that such works have perished and left no sign? The question
may be easily answered. When the ruins of Babylon began to be used as an open quarry, the stone
buildings must have been the first to disappear. This material, precious by its rarity and
in greater request than any other, was used again and again until no trace of its original
destination or of the buildings in which it was found remained.

In Assyria long chains of hills traversed the plain and stretched here and there as far as
the borders of the two rivers, besides which the last buttresses of the mountains of Kurdistan
came very near the left bank of the Tigris. These hills all contained limestone. Two sorts
were found: one fine, hard, close grained, and a little shelly, the other softer and more friable.

For the decoration of his monumental doorways and the lining of his richest apartments, the
architect chose and committed to the sculptor those fine slabs of gypseous alabaster of which
so many examples are to be seen in the Louvre and British Museum. In the plains gypsum serves
as a base or foundation for the wide banks of clay that spread over the country, and are much
less thick than in the south of Chaldæa. Alabaster is there to be met with in great quantities,
often but little below the surface of the soil.[142] It is a sulphate of chalk, gray in colour,
soft and yet susceptible of polish. But it has many defects; it breaks easily and deteriorates
rapidly on exposure to the air. The Assyrians, however, did not fear to use it in great masses,
as witness the bulls in the Louvre and British Museum. Before removal these carved man-headed
animals weighed some thirty-five tons, and some of those remaining at Khorsabad and Kouyundjik
are still larger.

In Assyria as in Chaldæa the dark and hard volcanic rocks have only been found in a few isolated
fragments. They were used by the statuary and ornamentist rather than by the architect, and
we cannot say for certain where they got them. We know, however, that basalt and other rocks
of that kind were found in the upper valleys of the streams that flowed into the two great
rivers.[143]

The Assyrian architect had therefore only to stretch out his hand to win stone of a sufficiently
varied nature from the soil of his own country or the flanks of its mountains. It was, of course,
mediocre in quality but it had powers of resistance that fitted it for use in certain positions.
At the first glance it is difficult to understand why so little use was made of it. But in
truth stone was for the Assyrian no more than an accessory and complementary material; the
bodies of his structures were never composed of it; it was mainly confined to plinths, pavements,
and the internal linings of walls.

In spite of its apparent singularity this determined exclusion is to be easily explained. The
Assyrian invented nothing. His language and his writing, his religion and his science, came
from Chaldæa, and so did his art. When the kings of Resen, of Calech, and Nineveh, took it
into their heads to build palaces, they imported architects, painters, and sculptors, from
the southern kingdom. Why, it may be asked, did those artists remain so faithful to the traditions
in which they had grown up when they found themselves planted among such different surroundings?
The answer is, that nothing is more tenacious of life than those professional habits that are
transmitted from one generation to another by the practical teaching of more or less close
corporations, besides which we must remember that the Chaldæan methods were excellently well
fitted for the satisfaction of those impatient princes at whose orders the works were undertaken.
For the quarrying, dressing, and fixing of stone, a special and rather tedious education was
required. The manufacture and laying of bricks was comparatively easy. A few weeks were sufficient
to learn all that was to be learnt about the kneading and moulding of the earth, its desiccation
in the sun or burning in the kiln. Provided that experienced men were forthcoming to superintend
the latter operation, millions of good bricks could be made in the year.[144] All this required
no lengthy apprenticeship. Their arrangement in horizontal courses or grouping at stated intervals,
into those lines of battlements with which every wall was crowned, was done by the men of the
corvée. Certain parts of the building, such as arches and vaults, required more care and skill,
and were left, no doubt, to experienced masons and bricklayers, but, with these exceptions,
the whole work could be confided to the first-comers, to those armies of captives whom we see
in the bas-reliefs labouring in chained gangs like convicts.

Working in this fashion, even the most formidable works could be completed with singular rapidity.
In Assyria, as in Chaldæa, a prince was no sooner seated firmly upon the throne than his architects
set about erecting a palace which should be entirely his own. He had no wish that any name
but his should be read upon its walls, or that they should display any deeds of valour but
those due to his own prowess. In the life of constant war and adventure led by these conquering
sovereigns, speed was everything, for they could never be sure of the morrow.

That considerations like these counted for much in the determination of the Assyrian architects
to follow a system that the abundance of durable materials invited them to cast aside can hardly
be doubted. They did not dare to rouse the displeasure of masters who disliked to wait; they
preferred rather to sacrifice the honour and glory to be won by the erection of solid and picturesque
buildings than to use the slowly worked materials in which alone they could be carried out.

Assyria was in all respects better provided than Chaldæa. Nature itself seemed to invite her
to throw off her too docile spirit of imitation and to create an art of her own. Her possession
of stone was not her only advantage over her southern neighbour, she had timber also; at least
the Ninevite architect had to go a much shorter distance than his Babylonian rival in order
to find it. From the summits of the lofty mounds, at whose feet he established his workshops,
he could catch a distant view of mountain chains, whose valleys were clothed with forests of
oak and beech, pine and cypress. There was nothing of the kind within reach of Lower Mesopotamia.
The nearest mountains, those which ran parallel to the left bank of the Tigris but at a considerable
distance, were more naked, even in ancient times, than those of Kurdistan and Armenia. From
one side of the plain to the other there were no trees but the palm and the poplar from which
timbers of any length could be cut. The soft and fibrous date-palm furnishes one of the worst
kinds of wood in the world; the poplar, though more useful, is not much less brittle and light.
From materials like these no system of carpentry could be developed that should allow great
spaces to be covered and great heights to be reached. When Nineveh and, after her, Babylon,
had conquered all Western Asia, she drew, like Egypt before her, upon the forests of Lebanon.
There she obtained the beams and planks for the ceilings and doors of her sumptuous palaces.[145]
The employment, however, of these excellent woods must always have been rare and exceptional.
Moreover, other habits had become confirmed. When these new resources were put at the disposition
of architecture, the art was too old and too closely wedded to its traditional methods to accept
their aid. In the use of wood, as in that of brick, Assyria neglected to make the best of the
advantages assured to her by her situation and her natural products.

If Chaldæa was ill-provided with stone and timber, she had every facility for procuring the
useful and precious metals. They were not, of course, to be found in her alluvial plains, but
metals are easy of transport, especially to a country whose commerce has the command of navigable
highways. The industrial centres in which they are manufactured are often separated by great
distances from the regions where they are won from the earth. But to procure the more indispensable
among them the dwellers upon the Tigris and Euphrates had no great distance to cover. The southern
slopes of Zagros, three or four days' journey from Nineveh, furnished iron, copper, lead, and
silver in abundance. Mines are still worked in Kurdistan, or, at least, have been worked in
very recent times, which supply these metals in abundance. The traces of abandoned workings
may be recognized even by the hasty and unlearned traveller, and a skilful engineer would,
no doubt, make further discoveries.[146] Mr. Layard was unable to learn that any gold had been
won in our days; but from objects found in the excavations, from inscriptions in which the
Assyrians boast of their wealth and prodigality, from Egyptian texts in which the details of
tributes paid by the Roten-nou, that is by the people of Syria and Mesopotamia, are given,
it is clear that in the great days of Nineveh and Babylon those capitals possessed a vast quantity
of gold, and employed it in a host of different ways. In the course of several centuries of
war, victory, and pillage, princes, officers, and soldiers had amassed enormous wealth by the
simple process of stripping the nations of Western Asia of every object of value they possessed.
These accumulations were continually added to, in the case of Babylon, by the active commerce
she carried on with the mineral-producing countries, such as the Caucasus, Bactriana, India,
and Egypt.

There are some architectures--that of the Greeks for example--that preserve a rare nobility
even when deprived of their metal ornaments and polychromatic decoration. The architects of
Babylon and Nineveh were differently situated. Deprived of metals some of their finest effects
would have been impossible. The latter could be used at will in flexible threads or long, narrow
bands, which could be nailed or riveted on to wood or brick. They may be beaten with the hammer,
shaped by the chisel, or engraved by the burin; their surfaces may be either dead or polished;
the variety of shades of which they are capable, and the brilliance of their reflections, are
among the most valuable resources of the decorator, and the colouring principles they contain
provide the painter and enameller with some of his richest and most solid tones. In Chaldæa
the architect was condemned by the force majeure of circumstances to employ little more than
crude or burnt brick and bad timber; in Assyria he voluntarily condemned himself to the limitations
they imposed. By the skilful and intelligent use of metals, he managed to overcome the resulting
disadvantages in some degree, and to mask under a sumptuous decoration of gold, silver, and
bronze, the deficiencies inherent in the material of which his buildings were mainly composed.

NOTES:

[127] G. CURTIUS is of opinion that the word keramos, and consequently its derivatives (kerameus,
kerameia, kerameikê, &c.,) springs rather from a root CRA, expressive of the idea to cook,
than from the word kerannumi, to mix, knead (Grundzüge der Griechischen Etymologie, p. 147,
5th edition).

[128] See Nahum iii. 14.

[129] Even these dimensions were sometimes passed. The Louvre possesses an Assyrian brick rather
more than 17-1/2 inches square. See DE LONGPERIER, Notice des Antiquités Assyriennes (3rd edition,
1854, 12mo), No. 44.

[130] VITRUVIUS, 1. ii. ch. 3.

[131] PLACE, Ninive et l'Assyrie, vol. i. p. 225. The vault of the gallery discovered by LAYARD
in the centre of the tower that occupied a part of the mound of Nimroud was constructed in
the same fashion. Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon, p. 126.

[132] PLACE, Ninive et l'Assyrie, vol. i. pp. 211-224.

[133] Genesis xi. 3.

[134] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 506 and 531.

[135] See, for Chaldæa, LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, p. 133; and for Assyria, PLACE, Ninive
et l'Assyrie, vol. i. p. 250, and vol. ii. plates 38 and 39. As an example of the varieties
of section presented by these bricks, we may cite those found by M. de Sarzec in the ruins
of Tello, which belonged to a circular pillar. This pillar was composed of circular bricks,
placed in horizontal courses round a centre of the same material. Elsewhere triangular bricks,
which must have formed the angles of buildings have been found. TAYLOR, Notes on the Ruins
of Mugheir (Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xv. p. 266). At Abou-Sharein, this same
traveller found convex-sided bricks (Journal, &c., vol. xv. p. 409).

[136] PLACE, Ninive, &c., vol. i. p. 233.

[137] Some of these fragments are in the Louvre. They are placed on the ground in the Assyrian
Gallery. Their forms are too irregular to be fitted for reproduction here. But for the hollow
in question, one might suppose them to be mere shapeless boulders. LAYARD noticed similar remains
among the ruins of Babylon, Discoveries, &c., p. 528.

[138] M. OPPERT is even inclined to think that some of them came from the peninsula of Sinai
and the eastern shores of Egypt (Revue Archéologique, vol. xlii. p. 272). The formation of
the Arabian hills is not yet very well known, and we are not in a position to say for certain
whence these rocks may have come. It seems probable however, that they might have been obtained
from certain districts of Arabia, from which they could be carried without too great an effort
to within reach of the canals fed by the Euphrates, or of some port trading with the Persian Gulf.

[139] LAYARD, Discoveries, &c., p. 528.

[140] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 116.

[141] HERODOTUS, i. 186. DIODORUS (ii. viii. 2), quoting Ctesias, speaks in almost the same
terms of this stone bridge, which he attributes to Semiramis.

[142] BOTTA, Monuments de Ninive, vol. v. p. 3.

[143] In the valley of the Khabour, the chief affluent of the Euphrates, LAYARD found volcanoes
whose activity seemed only to have been extinguished at a very recent epoch. Long streams of
lava projected from their sides into the plain. Discoveries, p. 307.

[144] As for the simple and rapid nature of the process by which crude bricks are manufactured
to the present day in Persia, see TEXIER, L'Arménie et la Perse, vol. ii. p. 64.

[145] As to the employment in Assyria of cedar from the Lebanon, see FRANÇOIS LENORMANT, Histoire
Ancienne, vol. ii. p. 191, and an inscription of Sennacherib, translated by OPPERT, Les Sargonides,
pp. 52, 53. Its use in Babylon is proved by several passages of the great text known as the
Inscription of London, in which Nebuchadnezzar recounts the great works he had caused to be
carried out in his capital (LENORMANT, Histoire, vol. ii. pp. 228 and 233). We find this phrase
among others, "I used in the chamber of oracles the largest of the trees transported from the
summits of Lebanon." LAYARD (Discoveries, pp. 356-7) tells us that one evening during the Nimroud
excavations, his labourers lighted a fire to dry themselves after a storm, which they fed with
timbers taken from the ruins. The smell of burning cedar, a perfume which so many Greek and
Latin poets have praised (urit odoratam nocturna in lumina cedrum, VIRGIL, Æneid, vii. 13),
apprised him of what was going on. In the British Museum (Nimroud Gallery, Case A), fragments
of recovered joists may be seen. They are in such good preservation that they might be shaped
and polished anew, so as to again bring out the markings and the fine dark-yellow tone which
contributed not a little to make the wood so precious. It was sought both for its agreeable
appearance and its known solidity; and experience has proved that the popular opinion which
declared it incorruptible had some foundation.

[146] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. p. 223, and vol. ii. pp. 415-418.

§ 2.--The General Principles of Form.

If in our fancy we strip the buildings of Chaldæa and Assyria of all their accessories, if
we take from them their surface ornament and the salience of their roofs, the bare edifice
that remains is what geometricians call a rectangular parallelopiped.

Of all the types created by this architecture, the only one of which we still possess a few
fairly well preserved examples is that of the palace. It is therefore the best known of them
all, and the first to excite attention and study. Now, upon the artificial mound, the wide
terrace, over which its imposing mass is spread, the palace may be likened to a huge box whose
faces are all either horizontal or vertical (Plate V.). Even in the many-storied temples, whose
general aspect is modified of course to a great extent by their height, the same element may
be traced. We have endeavoured to restore some of these by collating the descriptions of the
ancient writers with the remains that still exist in many parts of Mesopotamia (Plates II.,
III., and IV.). Their general form may be described as the box to which we have compared the
palace repeated several times in vertical succession, each box being rather smaller than the
one below it. By these means their builders proposed to give them an elevation approaching
the marvellous. The system was in some respects similar to that of the pyramid, but the re-entering
angles at each story gave them a very different appearance, at least to one regarding them
from a short distance. Only now and then do we find any inclination like that of the sides
of a pyramid, and in those cases it applies to bases alone (Plate IV.). As a rule the walls
or external surfaces are perpendicular to their foundations.

We may, perhaps, explain the complete absence from Chaldæa of a system of construction that
was so universal in Egypt by the differences of climate and of the materials used. Doubtless
it rains less in Mesopotamia than even in Italy or Greece. But rain is not, as in Upper Egypt,
an almost unknown phenomenon. The changes of the seasons are ushered in by storms of rain that
amount to little less than deluges.[147] Upon sloping walls of dressed stone these torrents
could beat without causing any great damage, but where brick was used the inconveniences of
such a slope would soon be felt. Water does not fall so fast upon a slope as upon a perpendicular
wall, and a surface made up of comparatively thin bricks has many more joints than one in which
stones of any considerable size are employed. As a rule the external faces of all important
buildings were revetted with very hard and well burnt bricks. But the rain, driven by the wind,
might easily penetrate through the joints and spread at will through the core of mere sun-dried
bricks within. The verticality of Assyrian and Chaldæan walls was necessary, therefore, for
their preservation. Without it the thin covering of burnt brick would have been unable to do
its proper work of protecting the softer material within, and the sudden storms by which the
plains were now and again half drowned, would have been far more hurtful than they were.

The Chaldæan palace, like the Egyptian temple, sought mainly for lateral development. Its extent
far surpassed its elevation, and horizontal lines predominated in its general physiognomy.
There was here a latent harmony between the architecture of nature and that of man, between
the great plains of Mesopotamia, with their distant horizons, and the long walls, broken only
by their crenellated summits, of the temples and palaces. There must, however, have been a
certain want of relief, of visibility, in edifices conceived on such lines and built in such
a country.

This latter defect was obvious to the Mesopotamians themselves, who raised the dwellings of
their gods and kings upon an artificial mound with a carefully paved summit.[148] Upon this
summit the structure properly speaking rested, so that, in Chaldæa, the foundations of a great
building instead of being, as elsewhere, sunk beneath the soil, stand so high above it that
the ground line of the palace or temple to which they belong rises above the plain to a height
that leaves the roofs of ordinary houses and even the summits of the tallest palms far below.
This arrangement gave a clearer salience and a more imposing mass to structures which would
otherwise, on account of their monotony of line and the vast excess of their horizontal over
their vertical development, have had but little effect.

Such an arrangement would appear superfluous in the case of those towers in the shape of stepped
pyramids, whose summits could be carried above the plain to any fanciful height by the simple
process of adding story to story. But the Mesopotamian constructor went upon the same system
as in the case of his palaces. It was well in any case to interpose a dense, firm, and dry
mass between the wet and often shifting soil and the building, and to afford a base which by
its size and solidity should protect the great accumulation of material that was to be placed
upon it from injury through any settling in the foundations. Moreover, the paved esplanade
had its place in the general economy. It formed a spacious court about the temple, a sacred
temenos as the Greeks would have called it, a haram as a modern Oriental would say. It could
be peopled with statues and decorated with mystic emblems; religious processions could be marshalled
within its bounds.

The general, we may almost say the invariable, rule in Mesopotamia was that every structure
of a certain importance should be thus borne on an artificial hill. An examination of the ruins
themselves and of the monuments figured upon the bas-reliefs shows us that these substructures
did not always have the same form. Their faces were sometimes vertical, sometimes inclined;
sometimes again they presented a gentle outward curve (see Fig. 34); but these purely external
differences did not affect the principle. In all the river basins of Mesopotamia, whether of
the Euphrates, the Tigris, or the smallest affluents of the Persian Gulf, whenever you see
one of these tells, or isolated mounds, standing above the general surface of the plain, you
may be sure that if you drive a trench into it you will come upon those courses of crude brick
that proclaim its artificial origin. Rounded by natural disintegration and scarred by the rain
torrents, such a hillock is apt to deceive the thoughtless or ignorant traveller, but an instructed
explorer knows at a glance that many centuries ago it bore on its summit a temple, a fortress,
or some royal or lordly habitation (Fig. 35).

The distinguishing feature of the staged towers is their striving after the greatest possible
elevation. It is true that neither from Herodotus nor Diodorus do we get any definite statements
as to the height of the most famous of these monuments, the temple of Belus at Babylon;[149]
Strabo alone talks of a stade (616 feet), and it may be asked on what authority he gives that
measurement, which has been freely treated as an exaggeration. In any case we may test it to
a certain extent by examining the largest and best preserved of the artificial hills of which
we have spoken,[150] and we must remember that all the writers of antiquity are unanimous in
asserting its prodigious height.[151] We run small risk of exaggeration, therefore, in saying
that some of these Chaldæan temples were much taller than the highest of the Gizeh Pyramids.
Their general physiognomy was the reverse of that of the Mesopotamian palaces, but it was no
less the result of the natural configuration of the country. Their architect sought to find
his effect in contrast; he endeavoured to impress the spectator by the strong, not to say violent,
opposition between their soaring lines and the infinite horizon of the plain. Such towers erected
in a hilly country like Greece would have looked much smaller. There, they would have had for
close neighbours sometimes high mountains and always boldly contoured hills and rocks; however
far up into the skies their summits might be carried, they would still be dominated on one
side or the other. Involuntarily the eye demands from nature the same scale of proportions
as are suggested by the works of man. Where these are chiefly remarkable for their height,
much of their effect will be destroyed by the proximity of such hills as Acrocorinthus or Lycabettus,
to say nothing of Taygetus or Parnassus.

It is quite otherwise when the surface of the country stretches away on every side with the
continuity and flatness of a lake. In these days none of the great buildings to which we have
been alluding have preserved more than a half of their original height;[152] all that remains
is a formless mass encumbered with heaps of débris at its foot, and yet, as every traveller
in the country has remarked, these ruined monuments have an extraordinary effect upon the general
appearance of the country. They give an impression of far greater height than they really possess
(Fig. 36). At certain hours of the day, we are told, this illusion is very strong: in the early
morning when the base of the mound is lost in circling vapours and its summit alone stands
up into the clear sky above and receives the first rays of the sun; and in the evening, when
the whole mass rises in solid shadow against the red and gold of the western sky. At these
times it is easy to comprehend the ideas by which the Chaldæan architect was animated when
he created the type of these many-storied towers and scattered them with such profusion over
the whole face of the country. The chief want of his land was the picturesque variety given
by accidents of the ground to its nearest neighbours, a want he endeavoured to conceal by substituting
these pyramidal temples, these lofty pagodas, as we are tempted to call them, for the gentle
slopes and craggy peaks that are so plentiful beyond the borders of Chaldæa. By their conspicuous
elevation, and the enormous expenditure of labour they implied, they were meant to break the
uniformity of the great plains that lay about them; at the same time, they would astonish contemporary
travellers and even that remote posterity for whom no more than a shapeless heap of ruins would
be left. They would do more than all the writings of all the historians to celebrate the power
and genius of the race that dared thus to correct and complete the work of nature.

When the king and his architect had finished one of these structures, they might calculate
upon an infinite duration for it without any great presumption, and that partly because Chaldæan
art, even when most ambitious and enterprising, never made use of any but the simplest means.
The arch was in more frequent use than in Egypt, but it hardly seems to have been employed
in buildings to which any great height was to be given. Scarcely a trace of it is to be discovered
either in the parts preserved of these structures or in their sculptured representations. None
of those light and graceful methods of construction that charm and excite the eye, but must
be paid for by a certain loss of stability, are to be found here. Straight lines are the inflexible
rule. The few arches that may be discovered in the interior exercise no thrust, surrounded
as they are on every side by weighty masses. In theory the equilibrium is perfect; and if,
as the event has proved, the conditions of stability, or at least of duration, were less favourable
than in the pyramids at Memphis or in the temples at Thebes, the fault lies with the inherent
vices of the material used and with the comparatively unfavourable climate.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the absence of stone the Chaldæan builder was shut off from many of the most convenient
methods of covering, and therefore of multiplying, voids. Speaking generally, we may say that
he employed neither piers, nor columns, nor those beams of limestone, sandstone, or granite,
which we know as architraves; he was, therefore, ignorant of the portico, and never found himself
driven by artistic necessities to those ingenious, delicate, and learned efforts of invention
by which the Egyptians and Greeks arrived at what we call orders. This term is well understood.
By it we mean supports of which the principal parts, base, shaft, and capital, have certain
constant and closely defined mutual relations. Like a zoological species, each order has a
distinctive character and personal physiognomy of its own. An art that is deprived of such
a resource is condemned to a real inferiority. It may cover every surface with the luxury of
a sumptuous decoration, but, in spite of all its efforts, a secret poverty, a want of genius
and invention, will be visible in its creations.

The varied arrangements of the portico suggested the hypostyle hall, with all the picturesque
developments it has undergone at the hands of the Egyptians, the Greeks, the Romans, and the
people of modern Europe. In their ignorance of the pier and column, the Chaldæans were unable
to give their buildings those spacious galleries and chambers which delight the eye while they
diminish the actual mass of a building. Their towers were artificial mountains, almost as solid
and massive from base to summit as the natural hills from which their lines were taken.[153]
A few small apartments were contrived within them, near their outer edges, that might fairly
be compared to caves hollowed in the face of a cliff. The weight upon the lower stories and
the substructure was therefore enormous, even to the point of threatening destruction by sheer
pulverisation. The whole interior was composed of crude brick, and if, as is generally supposed,
those bricks were put in place before the process of desiccation was complete, the shrinkage
resulting from its continuance must have had a bad effect upon the structure as a whole, especially
as the position of the courses and the more or less favourable aspects of the different external
faces must have caused a certain inequality in the rate at which that operation went on. The
resistance would not be the same at all points, and settlements would occur by which the equilibrium
of the upper stages might be compromised and the destruction of the whole building prepared.

Another danger lay in the violence of the sudden storms and the diluvial character of the winter
rains. Doubtless the outsides of the walls were faced with well burnt bricks, carefully set,
and often coated with an impenetrable enamel; but an inclined plane of a more or less gentle
gradient wound from base to summit to give access to the latter. When a storm burst upon one
of these towers, this plane became in a moment the bed of a torrent, for its outer edge would,
of course, be protected by a low wall. The water would pour like a river over the sloping pavement
and strike violently against each angle. Whether it were allowed to flow over the edges of
the inclined plane or, as seems more probable, directed in its course so as to sweep it from
top to bottom, it must in either case have caused damage requiring continual watchfulness and
frequent repairs. If this watchfulness were remitted for an instant, some of the external burnt
and enamelled bricks might become detached and leave a gap through which the water could penetrate
to the soft core within, and set up a process of disintegration which would become more actively
mischievous with every year that passed. The present appearance of these ruins is thus, to
a great extent, to be explained. Travellers in the country agree in describing them as irregular
mounds, deeply seamed by the rains; and the sides against which the storms and waterspouts
that devastate Mesopotamia would chiefly spend their force are those on which the damage is
most conspicuous (see Fig. 37).

Even in antique times these buildings had suffered greatly. In Egypt, when the supreme power
had passed, after one of those periods of decay that were by no means infrequent in her long
career, into the hands of an energetic race of princes like those of the eighteenth or twenty-sixth
dynasties, all traces of damage done to the public monuments by neglect or violence were rapidly
effaced. The pyramids could take care of themselves. They had seen the plains at their feet
covered again and again with hordes of barbarians, and yet had lost not an inch of their height
or a stone of their polished cuirass. Even in the temples the setting up of a few fallen columns,
the reworking of a few bas-reliefs, the restoration of a painting here and there, was all that
was necessary to bring back their former splendour.

In Chaldæa the work undertaken by Nabopolassar and his dynasty was far more arduous. He had
to rebuild nearly all the civil and religious buildings from their foundations, to undertake,
as we know from more than one text, a general reconstruction.[154] A new Babylon was reared
from the ground. Little of her former monuments remained but their foundations and materials.
Temples richer than the first rose upon the lofty mounds, and, for the sake of speed, were
often built of the old bricks, upon which appeared the names of forgotten kings. Nothing was
neglected, no expense was spared by which the solidity of the new buildings could be increased,
and yet, five or six centuries afterwards, nothing was left but ruins. Herodotus seems to have
seen the great temple of Bel while it was still practically intact, but Diodorus speaks of
it as an edifice "which time had caused to fall,"[155] and he adds that "writers are not in
accord in what they say about this temple, so that it is impossible for us to make sure what
its real dimensions were." It would seem, therefore, that the upper stories had fallen long
before the age of Augustus. Even Ctesias, perhaps, who is Diodorus's constant guide in all
that he writes on the subject of Chaldæa and Assyria, never saw the monument in its integrity.
In any case, the building was a complete ruin in the time of Strabo. "The tomb of Belus," says
that accurate and well-informed geographer, "is now destroyed."[156] Strabo, like Diodorus,
attributes the destruction of these buildings partly to time, partly to the avenging violence
of the Persians, who, irritated by the never-ending revolts of Babylon, ruined the proudest
and most famous of her temples as a punishment. That the sanctuary was pillaged by the Persians
under Xerxes, as Strabo affirms, is probable enough, but we have some difficulty in believing
that they troubled themselves to destroy the building itself.[157] The effort would have been
too great, and, in view of the slow but sure action of the elements upon its substance, it
would have been labour thrown away. The destruction of an Egyptian monument required a desperate
and long continued attack, it had to be deliberately murdered, if we may use such a phrase,
but the buildings of Mesopotamia, with their thin cuirasses of burnt brick and their soft bodies,
required the care of an architect to keep them standing, we might say of a doctor to keep them
alive, to watch over them day by day, and to stop every wound through which the weather could
reach their vulnerable parts. Abandoned to themselves they would soon have died, and died natural
deaths.

Materials and a system of construction such as those we have described could only result, in
a close style of architecture, in a style in which the voids bore but a very small proportion
to the solids. And such a style was well suited to the climate. In the long and burning summers
of Mesopotamia the inhabitants freely exchanged light for coolness. With few and narrow openings
and thick walls the temperature of their dwellings could be kept far lower than that of the
torrid atmosphere without.[158] Thus we find in the Ninevite palaces outer walls of from fifteen
to five-and-twenty feet in thickness. It would have been very difficult to contrive windows
through such masses as that, and they would when made have given but a feeble light. The difficulty
was frankly met by discarding the use of any openings but the doors and skylights cut in the
roofs. The window proper was almost unknown. We can hardly point to an instance of its use,
either among Assyrian or Chaldæan remains, or in the representations of them in the bas-reliefs.
Here and there we find openings in the upper stories of towers, but they are loop-holes rather
than windows (Fig. 38).[159]

At first we are inclined to pity kings shut up within such blind walls as these. But we must
not be betrayed into believing that they took no measures to enjoy the evening breeze, or to
cast their eyes over the broad plains at their feet, over the cities that lay under the shadows
of the lofty mounds upon which their palaces were built. At certain times of the year and day
they would retire within the shelter of their thickest walls and roofs; just as at the present
moment the inhabitants of Mossoul, Bassorah, and Bagdad, take refuge within their serdabs as
soon as the sun is a little high in the heavens, and stay there until the approach of evening.[160]

When the heat was less suffocating the courtyards would be pleasant, with their encircling
porticoes sustaining a light covering inclined towards the centre, an arrangement required
by the climate, and one which is to be found both at Pompeii and in the Arab houses of Damascus,
and is sure to have been adopted by the inhabitants of ancient Chaldæa. Additional space was
given by the wide esplanades in front of the doors, and by the flat roofs, upon which sleep
was often more successfully wooed than in the rooms below. And sometimes the pleasures given
by refreshing breezes, cool shadows, and a distant prospect could be all enjoyed together,
for in a certain bas-relief that seems to represent one of those great buildings of which we
possess the ruins, we see an open arcade--a loggia as it would be called in Italy--rise above
the roof for the whole length of the façade (Fig. 39).[161] There are houses in the neighbourhood
of Mossoul in which a similar arrangement is to be met with, as we may see from Mr. Layard's
sketch of a house in a village of Kurdistan inhabited by Nestorians (Fig. 40). It includes
a modified kind of portico, the pillars of which are suggested or rather demanded by the necessity
for supporting the ceiling.

Supposing such an arrangement to have obtained in Mesopotamia, of what material were the piers
or columns composed? Had they been of stone their remains would surely have been found among
the ruins; but no such things have ever come to light, so we may conclude that they were of
timber or brick; the roof, at least, must have been wood. The joints may have been covered
with protecting plates of metal by which their duration was assured. We have a curious example
of the use of these bronze sheaths in the remains of gilded palm-trees found by M. Place in
front of the harem at Khorsabad. He there encountered a cedar trunk lying upon the ground and
incased in a brass coat on which all the roughnesses of cedar bark were imitated. The leaves
of doors were also protected by metallic bands, which were often decorated with bas-reliefs.

Must we conclude that stone columns were unknown in Chaldæa and Assyria? As for Chaldæa, we
have no positive information in the matter, but we know that she had no building stone of her
own. The Chaldæan sculptor might indeed import a few blocks of diorite or basalt, either from
Arabia, Egypt, or the valleys of Mount Zagros, for use in statues which would justify such
expense; but the architect must have been restricted to the use of material close at hand.
In Assyria limestone was always within reach, and yet the Assyrians never succeeded in freeing
themselves from traditional methods sufficiently to make the column play a part similar to
that assigned to it by the peoples of Egypt and Greece. Their habits, and especially the habit
of respect for the practices and traditions of Chaldæa, were too strong for them. Their use
of the column, though often tasteful and happy, is never without a certain timidity. One is
inclined to think they had an inkling of the possibilities latent in it, but that they lacked
the courage necessary to give it full play in the interiors and upon the façades of their large
palaces and towers. In the bas-reliefs we find columns used in the kiosques built upon the
river banks (Fig. 41), and in the pavilions or chapels studded over the royal gardens (Fig.
42). The excavations, moreover, have yielded pedestals and capitals which, rare as they are,
have a double claim to our regard. The situations in which they have been discovered seem to
show that columns were sometimes used in front of doorways, to support porches or covered ways
extending to the full limits of the esplanade; secondly, their forms themselves are interesting.
Close study will convince us that, when copied by neighbouring peoples who made frequent and
general use of stone supports, they might well have exercised an influence that was felt as
far as the Ægæan, and had something to do with one of the fairest creations of Greek art.

We thus catch side glimpses of the column, as it were, in small buildings, in the porches before
the principal doors of palaces, and in the open galleries with which some of the latter buildings
were crowned (Fig. 39). In all these cases it is nothing but a more or less elegant accessory;
we might if we pleased give a sufficiently full description of Mesopotamian architecture without
hinting at its existence.

We cannot say the same of the arch, which played a much more important rôle than it did in
Egypt. There it was banished, as we have seen, to the secondary parts of an edifice. It hardly
entered into the composition of the nobler class of buildings; it was used mainly in store-rooms
built near the temples, in the gateways through the outer walls of tombs, and in underground
cellars and passages.[162] In Mesopotamia, on the other hand, the arch is one of the real constituent
elements of the national architecture.

That the Chaldæan architects were early led to the invention of the arch is easily understood.
They were unable to support the upper parts of their walls, their ceilings or their roofs,
upon beams of stone or timber, and they had to devise some other means of arriving at the desired
result. This means was not matured all at once. With most peoples the first stage consisted
probably in those corbels or off-sets by which the width of the space to be covered was reduced
course by course, till a junction was effected at the top; and sometimes this early stage may
have been dispensed with. In some cases, the workman who had to cover a narrow void with small
units of construction may, in trying them in various positions and combinations, have hit upon
the real principle of the arch. This principle must everywhere have been discovered more or
less accidentally; in one place the accident may have come sooner than in another, and here
it may have been turned to more profit than there. We shall have to describe and explain these
differences at each stage of our journey through the art history of antiquity, but we may at
once state the general law that our studies and comparisons will bring to light. The arch was
soonest discovered and most invariably employed by those builders who found themselves condemned,
by the geological formation of their country, to the employment of the smallest units.

The Chaldæans were among those builders, and they made frequent use of the arch. They built
no long arcades with piers or columns for supports, like those of the Romans, and that simply
because such structures would have been contrary to the general principles of their architecture.
They made no use, as we have already explained, of those isolated supports whose employment
resulted in the hypostyle halls of Egypt and Persia, in the naves of Greek temples and Latin
basilicas. The want of stone put any such arrangement out of the question. We have, then, no
reason to believe that their arches ever rested upon piers or upon the solid parts of walls
freely pierced for the admission of light. The type from which the modern east has evolved
so many fine mosques and churches was unknown in Chaldæa. In every building of which we possess
either the remains or the figured representation the archivolts rest upon thick and solid walls.

Under these conditions the vault was supreme in certain parts of the building. Its use was
there so constant as to have almost the character of an unvarying law. Every palace was pierced
in its substructure by drains that carried the rain water and the general waste from the large
population by which it was inhabited down into the neighbouring river, and nearly all these
drains were vaulted. And it must not be supposed that the architect deliberately hid his vaults
and arches, or that he only used them in those parts of his buildings where they were concealed
and lost in their surroundings; they occur, also, upon the most careful and elaborate façades.
The gates of cities, of palaces and temples, of most buildings, in fact, that have any monumental
character, are crowned by an arch, the curve of which is accentuated by a brilliantly coloured
soffit. This arch is continued as a barrel vault for the whole length of the passage leading
into the interior, and these passages are sometimes very long. Vaults would also, in all probability,
have been found over those narrow chambers that are so numerous in Assyrian palaces were it
not for the universal ruin that has overtaken their superstructures. Finally, certain square
rooms have been discovered which must have been covered with vaults in the shape of more or
less flattened domes.

We must here call attention to the importance of a bas-relief belonging to the curious series
of carved pictures in which Sennacherib caused the erection of his palace at Nineveh to be
commemorated. Look well at this group of buildings, which seems to rise upon a platform at
the foot of a hill shaded with cypresses and fruit-laden vines (see Fig. 43). The buildings
on the right have flat roofs, those on the left, and they seem the most important, have, some
hemispherical cupolas, and some tall domes approaching cones in shape. These same forms are
still in use over all that country, not only for public buildings like baths and mosques, but
even here and there for the humblest domestic structures. Travellers have been often surprised
at encountering, in many of the villages of Upper Syria and Mesopotamia, peasants' houses with
sugar-loaf roofs like these.[163]

We need not here go further into details upon this point. In these general and introductory
remarks we have endeavoured to point out as concisely as possible how the salient characteristics
of Assyrian architecture are to be explained by the configuration of the country, by the nature
of the materials at hand, and by the climate with which the architect had to reckon. It was
to these conditions that the originality of the system was due; that the solids were so greatly
in excess over the voids, and the lateral over the vertical measurements of a building. In
this latter respect the buildings of Mesopotamia leave those of all other countries, even of
Egypt, far behind. They were carried, too, to an extraordinary height without any effort to
give the upper part greater lightness than the substructure; both were equally solid and massive.
Finally, the nature of the elements of which Mesopotamian architects could dispose was such
that the desire for elegance and beauty had to be satisfied by a superficial system of decoration,
by paint and carved slabs laid on to the surface of the walls. Beauty unadorned was beyond
their reach, and their works may be compared to women whose attractions lie in the richness
of their dress and the multitude of their jewels.

NOTES:

[147] OPPERT (Expédition scientifique, vol. i. p. 86) gives a description of one of these storms
that he encountered in the neighbourhood of Bagdad on the 26th of May.

[148] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. ii. p. 119. When one of these mounds is attacked
from the top, the excavators must work downwards until they come to this paved platform. As
soon as it is reached no greater depth need be attempted; all attention is then given to driving
lateral trenches in every direction. In Assyria the mass of crude bricks sometimes rests upon
a core of rock which has been utilized to save time and labour (LAYARD, Discoveries, &c., p. 219).

[149] See HERODOTUS, i. 181-184; and DIODORUS, ii. 9.

[150] By such means M. OPPERT arrives at a height of 250 Babylonian feet, or about 262 feet
English for the monument now represented by the mound in the neighbourhood of Babylon known
as Birs-Nimroud. Expédition scientifique de Mésopotamie, vol. i. pp. 205-209, and plate 8.

[151] Homologeitai d' hupsêlon gegenêsthai kath' huperbolên.--DIODORUS, ii. 9, 4.

[152] The mound called Babil on the site of Babylon (Plate I. and Fig. 37) is now about 135
feet high, but the Birs-Nimroud, the highest of these ruins, has still an elevation of not
less than 220 feet (LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 495).

[153] See LAYARD'S account of his excavation in the interior of the pyramidal ruin occupying
a part of the platform which now surmounts the mound of Nimroud. From two sides trenches were
cut to the centre; neither of them encountered a void of any kind (Nineveh and its Remains,
vol. ii. p. 107). At a later period further trenches were cut and the rest of the building
explored (Discoveries, pp. 123-129). The only void of which any trace could be found was a
narrow, vaulted gallery, about 100 feet long, 6 wide, and 12 high. It was closed at both ends,
and appeared never to have had any means of access from without.

[154] See LENORMANT, Histoire Ancienne, vol. ii. pp. 228 and 233. Translations of several texts
in which these restorations are spoken of are here given.

[155] tou kataskeuasmatos dia tou chronou diapeptôkotos (ii. 9, 4).

[156] STRABO, xvi. 5.

[157] DIODORUS, after describing the treasures of the temple, confines himself to saying generally,
"all this was afterwards spoiled by the king of Persia" (ii. 9, 19).

[158] According to the personal experience of M. Place, the ancient arrangements were more
suited to the climate of this country than the modern ones that have taken their place. The
overpowering heat from which the inhabitants of modern Mossoul suffer so greatly is largely
owing to the unintelligent employment of stone and plaster in the construction of dwellings.
During his stay in that town the thermometer sometimes rose, in his apartments, to 51° Centigrade
(90° Fahrenheit). The mean temperature of a summer's day was from 40° to 42° Centigrade (from
72° to about 76° Fahrenheit).

[159] See LAYARD, Monuments of Nineveh, 2nd series, plates 21 and 40.

[160] The serdab is a kind of cellar, the walls and floor of which are drenched periodically
with water, which, by its evaporation, lowers the temperature by several degrees.

[161] The town represented on the sculptured slab here reproduced is not Assyrian but Phoenician;
it affords data, however, which may be legitimately used in the restoration of the upper part
of an Assyrian palace. We can hardly believe that the Mesopotamian artists, in illustrating
the wars of the Assyrian kings, copied servilely the real features of the conquered towns.
They had no sketches by "special artists" to guide their chisels. They were told that a successful
campaign had been fought in the marshes of the lower Euphrates, or in some country covered
with forests of date trees, and these they had no difficulty in representing because they had
examples before their eyes; so too, when buildings were in question, we may fairly conclude
that they borrowed their motives from the architecture with which they were familiar.

[162] See the History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. pp. 77-84.

[163] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 112; GEO. SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, p. 341.

§ 3.--Construction.

As might have been expected nothing that can be called a structure of dressed stone has been
discovered in Chaldæa;[164] in Assyria alone have some examples been found. Of these the most
interesting, and the most carefully studied and described are the walls of Sargon's palace
at Khorsabad.

Even there stone was only employed to case the walls in which the mound was inclosed--a cuirass
of large blocks carefully dressed and fixed seemed to give solidity to the mass, and at the
same time we know by the arrangement of the blocks that the outward appearance of the wall
was by no means lost sight of. All those of a single course were of one height but of different
depths and widths, and the arrangement followed a regular order like that shown in Fig. 46.
Their external face was carefully dressed.[165]

The courses consist, on plan, of "stretchers" and "headers." We borrow from Place the plan
of an angle (Fig. 44), a section (Fig. 45), and an elevation (Fig. 46). Courses are always
horizontal and joints properly bound. The freestone blocks at the foot of the wall are very
large. The stretchers are six feet eight inches thick, the same wide, and nine feet long. They
weigh about twenty-three tons. It is astonishing to find the Assyrians, who were very rapid
builders, choosing such heavy and unmanageable materials.

The supporting wall became gradually thinner towards the top, each course being slightly set
back from the one below it on the inner face (see Fig. 45). This arrangement is general with
these retaining-walls. The average diminution is from seven to ten feet at the base, to from
three to six at the top.

The constructor showed no less skill in the use he made of his stretchers and headers. They
not only gave him an opportunity of safely diminishing the weight of his structure and economising
his materials, they afforded a ready means of adapting his wall exactly to the work it had
to do. The headers penetrated farther into the crude mass within than the stretchers, and gave
to the junction of the two surfaces a solidity similar to that derived by a wall from its through
stones or perpenders.

In describing this wall, M. Place also calls attention to the care with which the angles are
built. "The first course," he says, "is composed of three 'headers' with their shortest side
outwards and their length engaged in the mass behind. Two of these stones lie parallel to each
other, the third crosses their inner extremities."[166] Thanks to this ingenious arrangement,
the weakest and most exposed part of the wall is capable of resisting any attack.

The surface in contact with the core of crude brick was only roughly dressed, by which means
additional cohesion was given to the junction of the two materials; but the other sides were
carefully worked and squared and fixed in place by simple juxtaposition. The architect calculated
upon sufficient solidity being given by the mere weight of the stones and the perfection of
their surfaces.[167]

The total height of this Khorsabad wall was sixty feet--nine feet for the foundations, forty-six
for the retaining-wall, and five for the parapet, for the wall did not stop at the level of
the roofs. A row of battlements was thought necessary both as a slight fortification and as
an ornament.[168] These were finished at the top with open crenellations in brick, along the
base of which ran apparently a frieze of painted rosettes. A reference to our Fig. 47 will
explain all these arrangements better than words. It is a bird's-eye view in perspective of
the south-western part of the palace. The vertical sections on the right of the engraving show
how the stones were bonded to the crude brick. The crenellations are omitted here, but they
may be seen in place on the left.

The great size of the stones and the regularity of the masonry, the height of the wall and
the long line of battlements with which it was crowned, the contrast between the brilliant
whiteness of its main surface and the bright colours of the painted frieze that, we have supposed,
defined its summit--all this made up a composition simple enough, but by no means devoid of
beauty and grandeur.

In the enceinte surrounding the town, stone was also employed, but in a rather different fashion.
It was used to give strength to the foot of the wall, which consisted of a limestone plinth
nearly four feet high, surmounted by a mass of crude brick, rising to a total height of about
forty-four feet. Its thickness was eighty feet. The bed of stone upon which the brick rested
was made up of two retaining walls with a core of rubble. In the former, large blocks, carefully
dressed and fixed, were used; in the latter, pieces of broken stone thrown together pell-mell,
except towards the top, where they were so placed as to present a smooth surface, upon which
the first courses of brick could safely rest.[169]

When Xenophon crossed Assyria with the "ten thousand," he noticed this method of constructing
city walls, but in all the enceintes that attracted his attention, the height of the plinth
was much greater than that of Khorsabad. At Larissa it was twenty, and at Mespila fifty feet,
or respectively a fifth and a third of the total height of the walls.[170] These figures can
only be looked upon as approximate. The Greeks did not amuse themselves, we may be sure, with
measuring the monuments they encountered on their march, even if Tissaphernes gave them time.
But we may fairly conclude from this evidence that in some of the Assyrian town-walls the proportion
between the plinth and the superstructure was very different from what it is in the only example
that has come down to us.

At Khorsabad, then, stone played a much more important part in the palace wall than in that
of the town, but even in the latter position it is used with skill and in no inconsiderable
quantity; on the other hand, it is only employed in the interior of the palace for paving,
for lining walls, for the bases, shafts and capitals of columns, and such minor purposes. In
the only palace that has been completely excavated, that of Sargon at Khorsabad, everything
is built of brick. Layard alone speaks of a stone-built chamber in the palace of Sennacherib
at Kouyundjik, but he gives no details.

It would seem as if the Assyrians were content with showing themselves passed-masters in the
art of dressing and fixing stone, and, that proof given, had never cared to make use of the
material in the main structures of their buildings. Like the Chaldæans, they preferred brick,
into the management of which, however, they introduced certain modifications of their own.
The crude brick of Nineveh and its neighbourhood was used while damp, and, when put in place,
did not greatly differ from pisé.[171] Spread out in wide horizontal courses, the slabs of
soft clay adhered one to another by their plasticity, through the effect of the water with
which they were impregnated and that of the pressure exercised by the courses above.[172] The
building was thus, in effect, nothing but a single huge block. Take it as a whole, put aside
certain parts, such as the doorways and drains, that were constructed on rather different principles,
shut your eyes to the merely decorative additions, and you will have a huge mass of kneaded
earth which might have been shaped by giants in a colossal mould.

The masons of Babylon and of other southern cities made a much more extensive use of burnt
brick than those of the north. In Assyria the masses of pisé have as a rule no other covering
than the slabs of alabaster and limestone, and above, a thin layer of stucco. In Chaldæa the
crude walls of the houses and towers were cuirassed with those excellent burnt bricks which
the inhabitants of Bagdad and Hillah carry off to this day for use in their modern habitations.[173]
The crude bricks used behind this protecting epidermis have not lost their individuality, as
at Nineveh they seem to have been used only after complete dessication. They are of course
much more friable than those burnt in the kiln; when they are deprived of their cuirass and
exposed to the weather they return slowly to the condition of dust, and their remains are seen
in the sloping mounds that hide the foot of every ancient ruin (see Fig. 48), and yet if you
penetrate into the interior of a mass built of these bricks, you will easily distinguish the
courses, and in some instances the bricks have sufficient solidity to allow of their being
moved and detached one from another. They are, in fact, bricks, and not pisé. But in Chaldæa,
as in Assyria, the mounds upon which the great buildings were raised are not always of crude
brick. They are sometimes made by inclosing a large space by four brick walls, and filling
it with earth and the various débris left by previous buildings.[174] Our remarks upon construction
must be understood as applying to the buildings themselves, and not to the artificial hills
upon which they stood.

The Assyrians seem never to have used anything analogous to our mortar or cement in fixing
their materials. On the comparatively rare occasions when they employed stone they were content
with dressing their blocks with great care and putting them in absolute juxtaposition with
one another. When they used crude brick, sufficient adherence was insured by the moisture left
in the clay, and by its natural properties. Even when they used burnt or well dried bricks
they took no great care to give them a cohesion that would last, ordinary clay mixed with water
and a little straw, was their only cement.[175] Even in our own day the masons and bricklayers
of Mossoul and Bagdad are content with the same simple materials, and their structures have
no great solidity in consequence.

In Chaldæa, at least in certain times and at certain places, construction was more careful.
In the ruin known as Babil, a ruin that represents one of the principal monuments of ancient
Babylon, there is nothing between the bricks but earth that must have been placed there in
the condition of mud.[176] These bricks may be detached almost without effort. It is quite
otherwise with the two other ruins in the same neighbourhood, called respectively Kasr and
Birs-Nimroud. Their bricks are held together by an excellent mortar of lime, and cannot be
separated without breaking.[177] Elsewhere, at Mugheir for instance, the mortar is composed
of lime and ashes.[178]

Finally, the soil of Mesopotamia furnished, and still furnishes, a kind of natural mortar in
the bituminous fountains that spring through the soil at more than one point between Mossoul
and Bagdad.[179] It is hardly ever used in these days except in boatbuilding, for coating the
planks and caulking. In ancient times its employment was very general in the more carefully
constructed buildings, and, as it was found neither in Greece nor Syria, it made a great impression
upon travellers from those countries. They noted it as one of the characteristics of Chaldæan
civilization. In the Biblical account of the Tower of Babel we are told: "They had brick for
stone, and slime had they for mortar."[180] Herodotus lays stress upon the same detail in his
description of the way in which the walls of Babylon were built: "As they dug the ditches they
converted the excavated earth into bricks, and when they had enough, they burnt them in the
kiln. Finally, for mortar they used hot bitumen, and at every thirty courses of bricks they
put a layer of reeds interlaced."[181]

Those walls have long ago disappeared. For many centuries their ruins afforded building materials
for the inhabitants of the cities that have succeeded each other upon and around the site of
ancient Babylon, and now their lines are only to be faintly traced in slight undulations of
the ground, which are here and there hardly distinguishable from the banks that bordered the
canals. But in those deserts of Lower Chaldæa, where the nomad tent is now almost the only
dwelling, structures have been found but little damaged, in which layers of reeds placed at
certain intervals among the bricks may be easily distinguished. As a rule three or four layers
are strewn one upon the other, the rushes in one being at right angles to those above and below
it. Here and there the stalks may still be seen standing out from the wall.[182] Fragments
of bitumen are everywhere to be picked up among the débris about these buildings, upon which
it must have been used for mortar. It never seems to have been employed, however, over the
whole of a building, but only in those parts where more than the ordinary cohesive power was
required. Thus, at Warka, in the ruin called Bouvariia, the buttresses that stand out from
the main building are of large burnt bricks set in thick beds of bitumen, the whole forming
such a solid body that a pickaxe has great difficulty in making any impression upon it.[183]

Travellers have also found traces of the same use of bitumen in the ruins of Babylon. It seems
to have been in less frequent employment in Assyria. It has there been found only under the
two layers of bricks that constitute the ordinary pavement of roofs, courts, and chambers.
The architect no doubt introduced this coat of asphalte for two purposes--partly to give solidity
to the pavement, partly to keep down the wet and to force the water in the soil to flow off
through its appointed channels. A layer of the same kind was also spread under the drains.[184]

In spite of all their precautions time and experience compelled the inhabitants of Mesopotamia
to recognize the danger of crude brick as a building material; they endeavoured, therefore,
to supplement its strength with huge buttresses. Wherever the ruins have still preserved some
of their shape, we can trace, almost without exception, the presence of these supports, and,
as a rule, they are better and more carefully built than the structures whose walls they sustain.
Their existence has been affirmed by every traveller who has explored the ruins of Chaldæa,[185]
and in Assyria they are also to be found, especially in front of the fine retaining wall that
helps to support the platform on which the palace of Sargon was built.[186] The architect counted
upon the weight of his building, and upon these ponderous buttresses, to give it a firm foundation
and to maintain the equilibrium of its materials. As a rule there were no foundations, as we
understand the word. At Abou-Sharein, in Chaldæa, the monument described by Taylor and the
brick pavement that surrounds it are both placed upon the sand.[187] Botta noticed something
of the same kind in connection with the palace walls at Khorsabad: "They rest," he says, "upon
the very bricks of the mound without the intervention of any plinth or other kind of solid
foundation, so that here and there they have sunk below the original level of the platform
upon which they are placed."[188]

This was not due to negligence, for in other respects these structures betray a painstaking
desire to insure the stability of the work, and no little skill in the selection of means.
Thus the Chaldæan architect pierced his crude brick masses with numerous narrow tunnels, or
ventilating pipes, through which the warm and desiccating air of a Mesopotamian summer could
be brought into contact with every part, and the slight remains of moisture still left in the
bricks when fixed could be gradually carried off. These shafts have been found in the ruins
of Babylon and of other Chaldæan cities.[189] Nothing of the kind has been discovered in Assyria,
and for a very simple reason. It would have been impossible to preserve them in the soft paste,
the kind of pisé, we have described.

Another thing that had to be carefully provided for was the discharge of the rain water which,
unless it had proper channels of escape, would filter through the cracks and crevices of the
brick and set up a rapid process of disintegration. In the Assyrian palaces we find, therefore,
that the pavements of the flat roofs of the courtyards and open halls had a decided slope,
and that the rain water was thus conducted to scuppers, through which it fell into runnels
communicating with a main drain, from which it was finally discharged into the nearest river.

It rained less in Chaldæa than in Assyria. But we may fairly conclude that the Chaldæan architects
were as careful as their northern rivals to provide such safeguards as those we have described;
but their buildings are now in such a condition that no definite traces of them are to be distinguished.
On the other hand, the ruins in Lower Chaldæa prove that even in the most ancient times the
constructor had then the same object in view; but the means of which he made use were much
more simple, although contrived with no little ingenuity. We shall here epitomize what we have
learnt from one of those few observers to whom we owe all our knowledge of the earliest Chaldæan
civilization.

Mr. J. E. Taylor, British vice-consul at Bassorah, explored not a few of the mounds in the
immediate neighbourhood of the Persian Gulf which mark the sites of the burying places belonging
to the most ancient cities of Chaldæa.

The summits of these mounds are paved with burnt brick; their mass consists of heaped up coffins
separated from one another by divisions of the same material. To insure the preservation of
the bodies and of the objects buried with them liquids of every kind had to be provided with
a ready means of escape. The structures were pierced, therefore, with a vast number of vertical
drains. Long conduits of terra-cotta (see Fig. 49) stretched from the paved summit, upon which
they opened with very narrow mouths, to the base. They were composed of tubes, each about two
feet long and eighteen inches in diameter. In some cases there are as many as forty of these
one upon another. They are held together by thin coats of bitumen, and in order to give them
greater strength their sides are slightly concave. Their interiors are filled in with fragments
of broken pottery, which gave considerable support while they in no way hindered the passage
of the water. These potsherds are even placed around the outsides of the tubes, so that the
latter are nowhere in contact with the brick; they have a certain amount of play, and with
the tubes which they encase they form a series of shafts, like chimneys, measuring about four
feet square. Every precaution was taken to carry off the water left by the storms. They were
not contented with the small opening at the head of each tube. The whole of its dome-shaped
top was pierced with small holes, that made it a kind of cullender. Either through this or
through the interstices of the potsherd packing, all the moisture that escaped the central
opening would find a safe passage to the level of the ground, whence, no doubt, it would be
carried off to the streams in conduits now hidden by the mass of débris round the foot of every
mound.

That these arrangements were well adapted to their purpose has been proved by the result. Thanks
to the drains we have described, these sepulchral mounds have remained perfectly dry to the
present day. Not only the coffins, with the objects in metal or terra-cotta they contained,
but even the skeletons themselves have been preserved intact. A touch will reduce the latter
to powder, but on the first opening of their coffins they look as if time had had no effect
upon their substance.[190]

By these details we may see how far the art of the constructor was pushed in the early centuries
of the Chaldæan monarchy. They excite a strong desire in us to discover the internal arrangements
of his buildings, the method by which access was given or forbidden to those chambers of the
Babylonian temples and houses whose magnificence has been celebrated by every writer that saw
them before their ruin. Unhappily nothing has come down to us of the monuments of Chaldæa,
and especially of those of Babylon, but their basements and the central masses of the staged
towers. The Assyrian palaces are indeed in a better state of preservation, but even in their
case we ask many questions to which no certain answer is forthcoming.

The great difficulty in all our researches and attempts at restoration, is caused by the complete
absence of any satisfactory evidence as to the nature of the roofs that covered rooms, either
small or large. In most cases the walls are only standing to a height of from ten to fifteen
feet;[191] in no instance has a wall with its summit still in place been discovered.

The cut on the opposite page (Fig. 50) gives a fair idea of what a Ninevite building looks
like after the excavators have finished their work. It is a view in perspective of one of the
gates of Sargon's city: the walls are eighty-eight feet thick, to which the buttresses add
another ten feet; their average height is from about twenty-five to thirty feet, high enough
to allow the archway by which the city was entered to remain intact. This is quite an exception.
In no part of the palace is there anything to correspond to this happy find of M. Place--any
evidence by which we can decide the forms of Assyrian doorways. The walls are always from about
twelve to twenty-eight feet in thickness (see Fig. 46.) Rooms are rectangular, sometimes square,
but more often so long as to be galleries rather than rooms in the ordinary sense of the word.

The way in which these rooms were covered in has been much discussed. Sir Henry Layard believes
only in flat roofs, similar to those of modern houses in Mossoul and the neighbouring villages.
He tells us that he never came upon the slightest trace of a vault, while in almost every room
that he excavated he found wood ashes and carbonized timber.[192] He is convinced that the
destruction of several of these buildings was due in the first instance to fire. Several pieces
of sculpture, those from the palace of Sennacherib, for instance, may be quoted, which when
found were black with soot. They look like castings in relief that have been long fixed at
the back of a fire-place.

Long and narrow rooms may have been roofed with beams of palm or poplar resting upon the summits
of the walls. As for the large halls, in the centre they would be open to the sky, while around
the opening would run a portico, similar to that of a Roman atrium, whose sloping roof would
protect the reliefs with which the walls were ornamented.[193]

As to this, however, doubt had already been expressed by an attentive and judicial observer
like Loftus; who thought that the arch had played a very important part in the architecture
of Mesopotamia.[194] As he very justly remarked, the conditions were rather different from
those that obtained in the maritime and mountainous provinces of Persia; there was no breeze
from the gulf or from the summits of snowy mountains, to which every facility for blowing through
their houses and cooling their heated chambers had to be given; the problem to be solved was
how best to oppose an impenetrable shield against a daily and long continued heat that would
otherwise have been unbearable. Now it is clear that a vault with its great powers of resistance
would have been far better fitted to support a roof whose thickness should be in some reasonable
proportion to the massive walls, than a ceiling of bad timber. In our day the mosques, the
baths, and many of the private houses of Mossoul and Bagdad have dome-shaped roofs. Without
going as far as Mesopotamia, the traveller in Syria may see how intelligently, even in the
least important towns, the native builder has employed a small dome built upon a square, to
obtain a strong and solid dwelling entirely suited to the climate, a dwelling that should be
warm in winter and cool in summer.

We must also point out that the state in which the interiors of rooms are found by explorers,
is more consistent with the hypothesis of a domed roof than with any other. They are covered
to a depth of from fifteen to twenty feet with heaps of débris, reaching up to the top of the
walls, so far as the latter remain standing.[195] This rubbish consists of brick-earth mixed
with broken bricks, and pieces of stucco. Granting wooden roofs, how is such an accumulation
to be accounted for? Roofs supported by beams laid across from one wall to the other, could
never have safely upheld any great weight. They must have been thin and comparatively useless
as a defence against the sun of Mesopotamia. On the other hand if we assume that vaults of
pisé were the chosen coverings, all the rest follows easily. They could support the flat roof
with ease, and the whole upper structure could be made of sufficient thickness to exclude both
the heat and the rain, while the present appearance of the ruins is naturally accounted for.

Those who have lived in the East, those, even, who have extended a visit to Athens as far as
Eleusis or Megara, must have stretched themselves, more than once, under the stars, and, on
the flat roofs of their temporary resting-places, sought that rest that was not to be found
in the hot and narrow chambers within. They must then have noticed, as I have more than once,
a large stone cylinder in one corner. In Greece and Asia Minor, it will be in most cases a
"drum" from some antique column, or a funerary cippus, abstracted by the peasantry from some
neighbouring ruin. This morsel of Paros or Pentelic has to perform the office of a roller.
When some heavy fall of rain by wetting and softening the upper surface of the terrace, gives
an opportunity for repairing the ravages of a long drought, the stone is taken backwards and
forwards over the yielding pisé. It closes the cracks, kills the weeds that if left to themselves
would soon transform the roof into a field, and makes the surface as firm as a threshing-floor.

The roofs of Assyrian buildings must have required the same kind of treatment, and we know
that in the present day it is actually practised. M. Place mentions rollers of limestone, weighing
from two to three hundredweight, pierced at each end with a square hole into which wooden spindles
were inserted to facilitate their management.[196] A certain number of these rollers were found
within the chambers, into which they must have fallen with the roofs. As soon as the terraces
ceased to receive the care necessary for keeping down the weeds and shrubs and keeping out
the water, the process of disintegration must have been rapid. The rains would soon convert
cracks into gaping breaches, and at the end of a few years, every storm would bring down a
part of the roof. A century would be enough to destroy the vaults, and with them the upper
parts of the walls to which they were closely allied by the skill of the constructor. The disappearance
of the archivolts and the great heaps of débris are thus accounted for. The roof materials
were too soft, however, to damage in their fall the figures in high relief or in the round
that decorated the chambers beneath, or the carved slabs with which their walls were lined.
In spreading itself about these sculptures and burying them out of sight and memory, the soft
clay served posterity more efficiently than the most careful of packers.

Among the first observers to suspect the truth as to the use of the vault in Mesopotamia, were
Eugène Flandin, who helped Botta to excavate the palace of Sargon,[197] and Felix Thomas,[198]
the colleague of M. Place. The reasons by which M. Thomas was led to the conclusion that the
rooms in the Ninevite palaces were vaulted, are thus given by M. Place, who may be considered
his mouthpiece.[199]

He does not deny that some of the Khorsabad reliefs bear the marks of fire, but he affirms,
and that after the experience of four digging campaigns, that the conflagration was much less
general than might be supposed from the statements of some travellers. He failed to discover
the slightest trace of fire in the hundred and eighty-four rooms and twenty-eight courts that
he excavated. The marvellous preservation of the reliefs in many of the halls is inconsistent,
in his opinion, with the supposition that the palace was destroyed by fire; and if we renounce
that supposition the mere action of time is insufficient to account for the disappearance of
such an extent of timber roofing, for here and there, especially near the doorways, pieces
of broken beams and door panels have been found. "The wood is not all in such condition as
the incorruptible cedar of the gilded palm-trees, but wherever it certainly existed, traces
of it may be pointed out. In advanced decomposition it is no more consistent than powder, it
may be picked up and thrown aside, leaving a faithful cast of the beam or post to which it
belonged in the more tenacious clay."

All this, however, was but negative evidence. The real solution of the problem was first positively
suggested by the discovery of vaults in place, in the drains and water channels, and in the
city gates. The bas-reliefs in which towns or fortresses are represented also support the belief
that great use was made of arched openings in Assyria, and the countries in its neighbourhood
(see Fig. 51). As soon as it is proved that the Assyrians understood the principle of the arch,
why should it any longer be denied that they made use of it to cover their chambers? It is
obvious that a vault would afford a much better support for the weight above than any timber roof.

In the course of the explorations, a probable conjecture was changed into complete certainty.
The very vaults for which inductive reasoning had shown the necessity were found, if not in
place, at least in a fragmentary condition, and in the very rooms to which they had afforded
a cover--and here we must quote the words of the explorers themselves.

In the most deeply buried quarters of the building, the excavations were carried on by means
of horizontal tunnels or shafts. "I was often obliged," says M. Place, "to drive trenches from
one side of the rooms to another in order to get a clear idea of their shape and arrangement.
On these occasions we often met with certain hard facts, for which, at the time, we could give
no explanation. These facts were blocks of clay whose under sides were hollowed segmentally
and covered with a coat of stucco. These fragments were found sometimes a few feet from the
walls, sometimes near the middle of the rooms. At first I was thoroughly perplexed to account
for them. Our trenches followed scrupulously the inner surfaces of the walls, which were easily
recognizable by their stucco when they had no lining of carved slabs. What then were we to
make of these arched blocks, also coated with stucco, but found in the centre of the rooms
and far away from the walls? Such signs were not to be disregarded in an exploration where
everything was new and might lead to unforeseen results. Wherever a trace of stucco appeared
I followed it up carefully. Little by little the earth under and about the stuccoed blocks
was cleared away, and then we found ourselves confronted by what looked like the entrance to
an arched cellar. Here and there these portions of vaulting were many feet in length, from
four to six in span, and three or four from the crown of the arch to the level upon which it
rested. At the first glance the appearance of a vault was complete, and I thought I was about
to penetrate into a cellar where some interesting find might await me. But on farther examination
this pleasant delusion was dispelled. The pretended cellar came to an abrupt end, and declared
itself to be no more than a section of vaulting that had quitted its proper place.... The evidence
thus obtained was rendered still more conclusive by the discovery on the under side of several
fragments of paintings which had evidently been intended for the decoration of a ceiling."[200]

It is clear that these curvilinear and frescoed blocks were fragments of a tunnel vault that
had fallen in; and their existence explains the great thickness given by the Assyrian constructor
not only to his outer walls, but to those that divided room from room. The thinnest of the
latter are hardly less than ten feet, while here and there they are as much as fifteen or sixteen.
As for the outer walls they sometimes reach a thickness of from five and twenty to thirty feet.[201]
The climate is insufficient to account for the existence of such walls as these. In the case
of the outer walls such a reason might be thought, by stretching a point, to justify their
extravagant measurements, but with the simple partitions of the interior, it is quite another
thing. This apparent anomaly disappears, however, if we admit the existence of vaults and the
necessity for meeting the enormous thrust they set up. With such a material as clay, the requisite
solidity, could only be given by increasing the mass until its thickness was sometimes greater
than the diameter of the chambers it inclosed.

M. Place lays great stress upon the disproportion between the length and width of many of the
apartments. There are few of which the greater diameter is not at least double the lesser,
and in many cases it is four, five, and even seven times as great. He comes to the conclusion
that these curious proportions were forced on the Assyrians by the nature of the materials
at their disposal. Such an arrangement must have been destructive to architectural effect as
well as inconvenient, but a clay vault could not have any great span, and its abutments must
perforce have been kept within a reasonable distance of each other.

Taken by itself, this argument has, perhaps, hardly as much force as M. Place is inclined to
give it. Doubtless the predilection for an exaggerated parallelogram agrees very well with
the theory that the vault was in constant use by Mesopotamian architects, but it might be quoted
with equal reason by the supporters of the opposite hypothesis, that of the timber roof.

Our best reason for accepting all these pieces of evidence as corroborative of the view taken
by MM. Flandin, Loftus, Place, and Thomas is, in the first place, the incontestable fact that
the entrances to the town of Khorsabad were passages roofed with barrel vaults; secondly, the
presence amid the debris of the fragmentary arches above described; thirdly, the depth of the
mass of broken earth within the walls of each chamber; finally, the singular thickness of the
walls, which is only to be satisfactorily explained by the supposition that the architect had
to provide solid abutments for arches that had no little weight to carry.

It is difficult to say how the Assyrians set about building these arches of crude brick, but
long practice enabled their architects to use that unsatisfactory material with a skill of
which we had no suspicion before the exhumation of Nineveh. Thanks to its natural qualities
and to the experienced knowledge with which it was prepared, their clay was tough and plastic
to a degree that astonished the modern explorers on more than one occasion. The arched galleries
cut during the excavations--sometimes segmental, sometimes pointed, and often of a considerable
height and width--could never have stood in any other kind of earth without strong and numerous
supports. And yet M. Place tells us that these very galleries, exactly in the condition in
which the mattock left them, "provided lodging for the labourers engaged and their families,
and ever since they have served as a refuge for the inhabitants of the neighbouring villages.
Workmen and peasants have taken shelter under vaults similar to those of the ancient Assyrians.
Sometimes we cut through the accidental accumulations of centuries, where the clay, far from
having been carefully put in place, had rather lost many of its original qualities. Even there,
however, the roof of our galleries remained suspended without any signs of instability, as
if to bear witness that the Assyrian architect knew what he was about when he trusted so much
to the virtues of a fictile material."[202]

We may refer those who are specially interested in constructive methods to M. Place's account
of the curious fashion in which the workmen of Mossoul will build a pointed vault without the
help of any of those wooden centerings in use in Europe. In our day, certainly, the masons
of Mossoul use stone and mortar, but their example none the less proves that similar results
may once have been obtained in different materials.[203] A vault launched into mid-air without
any centering, and bearing the workmen who were building it on its unfinished flanks, was a
phenomenon calculated to astonish an architect. Taking everything into consideration the clay
vaults of Khorsabad are no more surprising than these domes of modern Mossoul.[204]

We cannot say for certain that the Assyrian builders made use of domes in addition to the barrel
vaults, but all the probabilities are in favour of such an hypothesis.

A dome is a peculiar kind of vault used for the covering of square, circular, or polygonal
spaces. As for circular and polygonal rooms, none have been found in Assyria, but a few square
ones have been disinterred. On the principal façade of Sargon's palace there are two of a fair
size, some forty-eight feet each way. Thomas did not believe that a barrel vault was used in
these apartments; the span would have been too great. He sought therefore for some method that
would be at once well adapted to the special conditions and in harmony with the general system.
This he found in the hemispherical dome.

All doubts on the subject were taken away, however, by the discovery of the bas-relief (Fig.
43) reproduced on page 145, in which we find a group of buildings roofed, some with spherical
vaults, some with elliptical domes approaching a cone in outline. This proves that the Mesopotamian
architects were acquainted with different kinds of domes, just as they were with varieties
of the barrel vault.

It has been guessed that this bas-relief, which is unique in its way, merely represents the
brick-kilns used in the construction of the palace of Sennacherib. To this objection there
is more than one answer. The Assyrian sculptures we possess represent but a small part of the
whole, and each fresh discovery introduces us to forms previously unknown. Moreover, had the
sculptor wished to represent the kilns in which the bricks for the palace were burnt, he would
have shown the flames coming out at the top. In reliefs of burning towns he never leaves out
the flames, and in this case, where they would have served to mark the activity with which
the building operations were pushed on, he would certainly not have omitted them. Again, is
not the building on the left of the picture obviously a flat-roofed house? If that be so we
must believe, before we accept the kiln theory, that the sculptor made a strange departure
from the real proportions of the respective buildings. The doorways, too, in the relief are
exactly like those of an ordinary house, while they bear no resemblance to the low and narrow
openings which have been used at all times for kilns. Why then should we refuse to admit that
there were vaults in Nineveh, when Strabo tells us expressly that "all the houses of Babylon
were vaulted."[205]

Thomas invokes the immemorial custom of the East to support the evidence of this curious relief:--the
great church of St. Sophia, the Byzantine churches and the Turkish mosques, all of which had
no other roof but a cupola. In all of these he sees nothing but late examples of a characteristic
method of construction which had been invented and perfected many centuries before at Babylon
and Nineveh.

From the monuments with which those two great cities were adorned nothing but the foundations
and parts of the walls have come down to our day; but the buildings of a later epoch, of the
periods when Seleucia and Ctesiphon enjoyed the heritage of Babylon, have been more fortunate.
In the ruins which are acknowledged to be those of the palaces built by the Parthian and Sassanid
monarchs, the upper structures are still in existence, and in a more or less well preserved
condition. In these the dome arrangement is universal. Sometimes, as at Firouz-Abad (Fig. 52),
we find the segment of a sphere; elsewhere, as at Sarbistan (Fig. 53), the cupola is ovoid.
Our section of the latter building will give an idea of the internal arrangements of these
structures, and will show how the architect contrived to suspend a circular dome over a square
apartment.[206]

These monuments of an epoch between remote antiquity and the Græco-Roman period were built
of brick, like the palaces of Nineveh.[207] The exigencies of the climate remained the same,
the habits and requirements of the various royal families that succeeded each other in the
country were not sensibly modified, while the Sargonids, the Arsacids and the Sassanids all
ruled over one and the same population.

The corporations of architects and workmen must have preserved the traditions of their craft
from century to century, traditions which had their first rise in the natural capabilities
of their materials and in the data of the problem they had to solve. The historian cannot,
then, be accused of going beyond the limit of fair induction in arguing from these modern buildings
to their remote predecessors. After the conquest of Alexander, the ornamental details, and,
still more, the style of the sculptures, must have been affected to a certain extent, first
by Greek art and afterwards by that of Rome; but the plans, the internal structure, and the
general arrangement of the buildings must have remained the same.

There is nothing hazardous or misleading in these arguments from analogy; from the palace of
Chosroes to that of Sargon is a legitimate step. Some day, perhaps, we may attempt to pursue
the same path in the opposite direction; we may endeavour to show that the survival of these
examples and traditions may very well have helped to direct architecture into a new path in
the last years of the Roman Empire. We shall then have to speak of a school in Asia Minor whose
works have not yet been studied with the attention they deserve. The buildings in question
are distinguished chiefly by the important part played in their construction by the vault and
the dome resting upon pendentives; certain constructive processes, too, are to be found in
them which had never, so far as we can tell, been known or practised in the East. We can hardly
believe that the chiefs of the school invented from the foundation a system of construction
whose principles were so different from those of the Greeks, or even of the later Romans. They
may, indeed, have perfected the system by grafting the column upon it, but it is at least probable
that they took it in the first place from those who had practised it from time immemorial,
from men who taught them the traditional methods of shortening and facilitating the labour
of execution. The boundaries of Asia Minor "march" with those of Mesopotamia, and in the latter
every important town had buildings of brick covered with domes. The Romans frequented the Euphrates
valley, to which they were taken both by war and commerce; their victories sometimes carried
them even as far as Ctesiphon on the Tigris, so that there was no lack of opportunity for the
study of Oriental architecture on the very spot where it was born. They could judge of and
admire the beauty it certainly possessed when the great buildings of Mesopotamia were still
clothed in all the richness of their decoration. The genius of the Greeks had come nigh to
exhausting the forms and combinations of the classic style; it was tired of continuous labour
in a narrow circle and sighed for fresh worlds to conquer. We can easily understand then, how
it would welcome a system which seemed to afford the novelty it sought, which seemed to promise
the elements of a new departure that might be developed in many, as yet unknown, directions.
If we put ourselves at this point of view we shall see that Isidore and Anthemius, the architects
of St. Sophia, were the disciples and perpetuators of the forgotten masters who raised so many
millions of bricks into the air at the bidding of Sargon and Nebuchadnezzar.[208]

Whatever may be thought of this hypothesis, there seems to be little doubt that the Assyrians
knew how to pass from the barrel vault to the hemispherical, and even to the elliptical, cupola.
As soon as they had discovered the principle of the vault and found out easy and expeditious
methods of setting it up, all the rest followed as a matter of course. Their materials lent
themselves as kindly to the construction of a dome as to that of a segmental vault, and promised
equal stability in either case. As to their method of passing from the square substructure
to the dome we know nothing for certain, but we may guess that the system employed by the Sassanids
(see Fig. 54) was a survival from it. It is unlikely that timber centerings were used to sustain
the vaults during construction. Timber was rare and bad in Chaldæa and men would have to learn
to do without it. M. Choisy has shown--as we have already mentioned--that the Byzantine architects
built cupolas of wide span without scaffolding of any kind, each circular course being maintained
in place until it was complete by the mere adherence of the mortar.[209]

M. Place, too, gives an account of how he saw a few Kurd women build an oven in the shape of
a Saracenic dome, with soft clay and without any internal support. Their structure, at the
raising of which his lively curiosity led him to assist, was composed of a number of rings,
decreasing in diameter as they neared the summit.[210] The domes of crude brick which surmounted
many of the Kurd houses were put together in the same fashion, and they were often of considerable
size. When asked by M. Place as to how they had learnt to manage brick so skilfully, the oven-builders
replied that it was "the custom of the country," and there is no apparent reason why that custom
should not date back to a remote antiquity. The Assyrians had recourse to similar means when
they built the domes of their great palaces. They too, perhaps, left a day for drying to each
circular course, and re-wetted its upper surface when the moment arrived for placing the next.[211]

From the existence of domes--which he considers to be almost beyond question--M. Place deduces
that of semi-domes, one of which he assigns to the principal chamber of the harem in the palace
at Khorsabad (Fig. 55). Feeling, perhaps, that this requires some justification, he finds it
in a modern custom, which he thus describes:--"In the towns of this part of the East, the inner
court of the harem is, as a rule, terminated at one of its extremities by a vault entirely
open at one side, in the form of a huge niche. It is, in fact, the half of a dome sliced in
two from top to bottom; the floor, which is elevated a few steps above the pavement of the
court, is strewn with carpets and cushions so as to form an open and airy saloon, in which
the women are to be found by their visitors at certain hours. This divan is protected from
rain by the semi-dome, and from the sun by curtains or mats hung across the arched opening.
This arrangement may very well be dictated by ancient tradition. It is well suited to the climate,
a consideration which never fails to exercise a decisive influence over architecture."[212]

And yet there would, perhaps, have been room for hesitation had no support to this induction
been afforded by the figured monuments; for the inhabitants of the province of Mossoul have
deserted the traditions of their ancestors in more than one particular. They have given up
the use of crude brick, for instance, so far, at least as the walls of their houses are concerned.
They have supplied its place with stone and plaster, hence their dwellings are less fresh and
cool than those of their fathers. In such a question the present throws a light upon the past,
but the two have distinctive features of their own, even when the physical characteristics
of the country have remained the same. The best evidence in favour of the employment of such
an arrangement in Assyria is that of the bas-relief. We there not infrequently encounter an
object like those figured on this page. Sometimes it is in the midst of what appears to be
an entrenched camp, sometimes in a fortified city. Its general aspect, certain minor details,
and sometimes an accompanying inscription, permit us to recognize in it the marquee or pavilion
of the king.[213] Now the roofs of these structures evidently consist of two semi-domes, unequal
in size and separated by an uncovered space. If such an arrangement was found convenient for
a portable and temporary dwelling like a tent, why should it not have been applied to the permanent
homes both of the king and his people?

Arches still standing in the city gates, fragments of vaults found within the chambers of Sargon's
palace at Khorsabad, the evidence of the bas-reliefs and the existing methods of building in
Mesopotamia--all concur in persuading us that the vault played an important part in the constructions
of Assyria, and consequently in those of Chaldæa; but we should not go so far as to say that
all the rooms in the palace at Khorsabad and elsewhere were covered with barrel vaults, domes,
or semi-domes. Our chosen guides, have, we think, allowed themselves to be a little too absolute
in this particular; it is quite possible that by the side of the vaulted chambers there were
others with wooden roofs. This conclusion is suggested partly by Sir H. Layard's discovery
of considerable quantities of wood ashes in the palaces he excavated, partly by the evidence
of ancient texts that wood was often used throughout this region to support the roofs at least
of private houses. We may quote, in the first place, some remarks in Strabo's account of Susiana,
which the Greek geographer borrowed from one of his original authorities: "In order to prevent
the houses from becoming too hot, their roofs are covered with two cubits of earth, the weight
of which compels them to make their dwellings long and narrow, because although they had only
short beams, they had to have large rooms, so as to avoid being suffocated." This same writer,
in speaking of these roofs, describes a singular property of the palm-tree beams. The densest
and most solid of them, he says, instead of yielding with age and sinking under the weight
they have to support, take a gentle upward curve so as to become better fitted than at first
for the support of the heavy roof.[214]

The necessity for the presence of a thick roof between the sun and the inside of the rooms
is here very clearly affirmed. It will also be noticed that the general form of apartments
in Susiana and Assyria did not escape the observer in question. As he saw very clearly, the
great disproportion between their length and their width was to be explained as easily by the
requirements of a wooden roof as by those of a clay vault.

In his attempt to describe Babylon, Strabo says[215]: "In the absence of timber, properly speaking,
beams and columns of palm-wood were used in the buildings of Babylonia. These pillars were
covered with twisted ropes of rushes, over which several coats of paint were laid. The doors
were coated with asphalte. Both doors and houses were very high. We may add that the houses
were vaulted, in consequence of the absence of wood.... There were, of course, no tile roofs
in countries where it never rains,[216] such as Babylonia, Susiana and Sittacenia."

Strabo himself never visited Mesopotamia. This we know from the passage in his introduction,
in which he tells us exactly how far his voyages extended, from north to south, and from east
to west.[217] When he had to describe Asia from the Taurus to India, he could only do so with
the help of passages borrowed from various authors, and in the course of his work it has sometimes
happened that he has brought into juxtaposition pieces of information that contradict each
other.[218] Something of the kind has happened in the lines we have quoted, in which he first
speaks of pillars and timber roofs, and ends by declaring that all the Chaldæan houses were
vaulted, although vaults and timber could not exist together. The truth is, in all probability,
that one system of covering prevailed here and another there, and that the seeming contradiction
in the text is due to hasty editing. We may conclude from it that travellers had reported the
existence of both systems, and that each was to be explained by local conditions and the varying
supply of materials.

The two systems still exist side by side over all Western Asia. From Syria to Kurdistan and
the Persian Gulf the hemispherical cupola upon a square substructure continually occurs. The
timber roof is hardly less frequent; when the apartment in which it is used is of any considerable
size it is carried upon two or three rows of wooden columns. These columns rest upon cubes
of stone, and a tablet of the same material is often interposed between them and the beams
they support. A sort of rustic order is thus constituted of which the shaft alone is of wood.
We reproduce a sketch by Sir H. Layard in which this arrangement is shown. It is taken from
a house inhabited by Yezidis,[219] in the district of Upper Mesopotamia called Sinjar (Fig. 58).

We are inclined to think that both systems were occasionally found in a single building. The
tunnel vault and the joisted ceiling were equally well suited to the long galleries of Assyrian
palaces. In one room, or suite of rooms, nothing but brick may have been used, while in others
wood may have had the preference. Still more probably, one architect may have had a predilection
for timber, while another may have preferred clay vaults. In either case the general arrangement,
what we may call the spirit of the plan, would remain the same.

When wooden roofs were used were they upheld by wooden uprights or by columns of any other
material? Botta was at first inclined to say yes to this question, but he did not attempt to
conceal that excavation had discovered little to support such an hypothesis.[220] Such pillars,
were they of stone, would leave traces among the ruins in the shape of broken columns; were
they of burnt bricks (and there could be no question of the crude material), those bricks would
be found on the spot they occupied and would easily be recognized by their shape, which, as
we have already shown, would have been specially adapted to the work they had to do.[221] The
points of junction with the pavement would also be visible. If we contend that they were of
wood, like those of the house figured above, we must admit that, at least in the more carefully
built houses, such precautions as even the peasants of the Yezidis do not neglect must have
been taken, and the timber columns raised upon stone bases which would protect them from the
sometimes damp floors. Neither these bases nor any marks of their existence have been found
in any of the ruins; and we are therefore led to the conclusion that to search for hypostyle
halls in the Assyrian palaces, would be to follow the imagination rather than the reason.

If we admit that architects made no use of columns to afford intermediate support to the heavy
roofs, we may at first be inclined to believe that wooden ceilings were only used in very narrow
apartments, for we can hardly give a length of more than from twenty-four to twenty-seven feet
to beams that were called upon to support a thick covering of beaten earth as well as their
own weight.[222] Perhaps, however, the skill of their carpenters was equal to increasing the
span and rigidity of the beams used by a few simple contrivances. One of these is shown in
our Fig. 60, a diagram composed by M. Chipiez to give an idea of the different methods of construction
used by, or, at least, at the command of, the Assyrian builder.

All the rooms were surmounted by flat roofs, and our horizontal sections show how these roofs
were accommodated to the domes or the timber ceilings by which they were supported. On the
left of the engraving semicircular vaults are shown, on the right a timbered roof. The arrangement
of the latter is taken from an Etruscan tomb at Corneto, where, however, it is carried out
in stone.[223] A frame like this could be put together on the spot and offered the means of
covering a wider space with the same materials than could be roofed in by a horizontal arrangement.
Further back rises one of those domes over square substructures whose existence seems to us
so probable. Behind this again opens one of the courts by which so much of the area of the
palace was occupied. The composition is completed by a wall with parapet and flanking towers.

After considering the method employed for roofing the palace apartments, we come naturally
to investigate their system of illumination. In view of the extravagant thickness of their
walls it is difficult to believe that they made use of such openings as we should call windows.
The small loop-holes that appear in some of the bas-reliefs near the summits of towers and
fortified walls were mere embrasures, for the purpose of admitting a little air and light to
the narrow chambers within which the defenders could find shelter from the missiles of an enemy
and could store their own arms and engines of war (see Fig. 59). The walls of Khorsabad even
now are everywhere at least ten feet high, and in some parts they are as much as fifteen, twenty,
and five-and-twenty feet, an elevation far in excess of a man's stature, and they show no trace
of a window. Hence we may at least affirm that windows were not pierced under the same conditions
as in modern architecture.[224]

And yet the long saloons of the palace with their rich decoration had need of light, which
they could only obtain through the doorways and the openings left in the roof. When this was
of wood the matter was simple enough, as our diagram (Fig. 60) shows. Botta noticed, during
his journey to his post, another arrangement, of which, he thinks, the Assyrians may very well
have made use.

"The houses of the Armenian peasantry," he says, "are sunk into the ground, so that their walls
stand up but little above the level of the soil. They are lighted by an opening that serves
at once for window and chimney, and is placed, as a rule, in the centre of the roof. The timber
frame of this opening is often ingeniously arranged (Fig. 61). Four thick beams, but very roughly
squared, intersect each other in the middle of the house. Across their angles slighter joists
are placed, and this operation is repeated till a small dome, open at the top, for the entrance
of light and the escape of smoke, has been erected."[225]

In the case of vaults how are we to suppose that the rooms were lighted? We can hardly imagine
that rectangular openings were left in the crown of the arch, such a contrivance would have
admitted very little light, while it would have seriously compromised the safety of the structure.
According to M. Place the desired result was obtained in more skilful fashion. In several rooms
he found terra-cotta cylinders similar to those figured below. These objects, of which he gives
a careful description, were about thirteen and a half inches in diameter and ten inches in
height. We may refer our readers to the pages of M. Place for a detailed account of the observations
by which he was led to conclude that these cylinders were not stored, as if in a warehouse,
in the rooms where they were afterwards found, but that they formed an integral part of the
roof and shared its ruin. We may say that the evidence he brings forward seems to fairly justify
his hypothesis.

Penetrating the roof at various points these cylinders would afford a passage for the outer
air to the heated chamber within, while a certain quantity of light would be admitted at the
same time. The danger arising from the rains could be avoided to a great extent by giving them
a slightly oblique direction. To this very day the Turkish bath-houses over the whole of the
Levant from Belgrade to Teheran, are almost universally lighted by these small circular openings,
which are pierced in great numbers through the low domes, and closed with immovable glasses.
Besides which we can point to similar arrangements in houses placed both by their date and
character, far nearer to those of Assyria. The Sassanide monuments bear witness that many centuries
after the destruction of Nineveh the custom of placing cylinders of terra-cotta in vaults was
still practised. In spite of its small scale these circles may be distinguished in the woodcut
of the Sarbistan palace which we have borrowed from Coste and Flandin (Fig. 54).[226]

These same writers have ascertained that the architects of Chosroes and Noushirwan employed
still another method of lighting the rooms over which they built their domes. They gave the
latter what is called an "eye," about three feet in diameter, through which the daylight could
fall vertically into the room beneath. This is the principle upon which the Pantheon of Agrippa
is lighted; the only difference being one of proportion. In Persia, the diameter of the eye
was always very small compared to that of the dome. If we are justified in our belief that
the constructors of the Parthian and Sassanide palaces were no more than the perpetuators of
systems invented by the architects of Nineveh and Babylon, the Assyrian domes also may very
well have been opened at the summit in this fashion. In the bas-relief reproduced in our Fig.
42, the two small cupolas are surmounted with caps around a circular opening which must have
admitted the light. Moreover, the elaborate system of drainage with which the substructure
of an Assyrian palace was honeycombed would allow any rain water to run off as fast as such
a hole would admit it.[227]

Whatever may be thought of these conjectures, it is certain that the architects of Nineveh--while
they did not neglect accessory sources of illumination--counted chiefly upon the doors to give
their buildings a sufficient supply of light and air. As M. Place says, when we examine the
plans of Sargon's palace at Khorsabad we are as much astonished at the size of the doorways
as at the thickness of the walls.[228]

"There is not a single doorway, even of the smallest chambers, even of the simple ante-rooms
for the use of servants and guards, that is not at least six feet or more wide; most of them
are ten feet, and those decorated with sculptures even wider still." In their present ruinous
state, it is more difficult to say for certain what their height may have been. Judging, however,
from the ruins and from the usual proportions of height and width in the voids of Assyrian
buildings, the doors at Khorsabad must have risen to a height of between fifteen and twenty-two
feet. "Such measurements are those of exceptionally vast openings, especially when we remember
that most of them gave access, not to state apartments, but to rooms used for the most ordinary
purposes, store-rooms, ante-rooms, kitchens, serving-rooms of all kinds, and bedrooms. When
we find architects who were so reluctant as those of Assyria to cut openings of any kind in
their outer walls, using doorways of these extravagant dimensions, we may surely conclude that
they were meant to light and ventilate the rooms as well as to facilitate the circulation of
their inhabitants."[229]

Even in halls, which were lighted at once by a number of circular eyes like those described
and by a wide doorway, there would be no excess of illumination, and the rooms of Assyria must,
on the whole, have been darker than ours. When we remember the difference in the climates this
fact ceases to surprise us. With our often-clouded skies we seldom have too much light, and
we give it as wide and as frequent passages as are consistent with the stability of our buildings.
The farther north we go the more strongly marked does this tendency become. In Holland, the
proportion of voids to solids is much greater than it is on the façade of a Parisian house,
and the same tendency may be traced from one end of Europe to the other. But even in Central
Europe, as soon as the temperature rises above a certain point, curtains are drawn and jalousies
closed, that is, the window is suppressed as far as possible. And is not that enough to suggest
a probable reason for the want of windows characteristic of an Oriental dwelling? An explanation
has been sometimes sought in the life of the harem and in the desire of eastern sovereigns
to withdraw themselves from the eyes of their subjects. The idleness, almost amounting to lethargy,
of the present masters of the East has also been much insisted on. What, it is asked, do these
men want with light? They neither read nor work, they care nothing for those games of skill
or chance which form so large a part of western activity; absolute repose, the repose of sleep
or stupefaction, is their ideal of existence.[230]

These observations have hardly the force that has been ascribed to them. The harem is not the
whole palace, and even in the modern East the selamlik, or public part of the house, is very
differently arranged from the rooms set apart for the women. The hunting and conquering kings
of Assyria lived much in public. They appeared too often at the head of their armies or among
the hounds for us to represent them--as the Greek tradition represented Sardanapalus--shut
up within blind walls in distant and almost inaccessible chambers. We must guard ourselves
against the mistake of seeking analogies too close between the East of to-day and that of the
centuries before the Greek civilization.

The people who now inhabit those countries are in a state of languor and decay. Life has retired
from them; their days are numbered, and the few they have yet to live are passed in a death-like
trance. But it was not always thus. The East of antiquity, the East in which man's intellect
awoke while it slumbered elsewhere, the East in which that civilization was born and developed
whose rich and varied creations we are engaged in studying, was another place. Its inhabitants
were strangely industrious and inventive, their intellects were busied with every form of thought,
and their activity was expended upon every art of peace and war. We must not delude ourselves
into thinking that the Chaldæans, who invented the first methods of science, that the Assyrians,
who carried their conquests as far as the shores of the Mediterranean, that those Phoenicians
who have been happily called "the English of antiquity," had any great resemblance to the Turks
who now reign at Bagdad, Mossoul, and Beyrout.

But the climate has not changed, and from it we must demand the key to the characteristic arrangements
of Mesopotamian palaces. Even now most of the buildings of Mossoul are only lighted from the
door, which is hardly ever shut. Some rooms have no direct means either of lighting or ventilation,
and these are the favourite retreats in summer. "I was enabled," says M. Place, "to convince
myself personally of this. In the consul's house there were, on one side of the court, three
rooms one within the other, of which the first alone was lighted from without, and even this
had a covered gallery in front of it, by which the glare was tempered. In the dog-days, when
the mid-day sun rendered all work a punishment, the innermost of these three rooms was the
only habitable part of the house. The serdabs, or subterranean chambers, are used under the
same conditions. They are inconvenient in some ways, but the narrowness of the openings, through
which light, and with it heat, can reach their depths, gives them advantages not to be despised."[231]

