PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 150

FEBRUARY 16, 1916

CHARIVARIA.

       * * *

Says a learned correspondent of The Observer: "There may be fundamental differences between
observed phenomena without affecting the validity of a strict analogy; and after all an analogy
is based upon presented similarities. It is sufficient if the sameness should apply to particular
attributes or occurrences found by induction to have similar relationships or consequences."
It looks, after all, as if some of our Museums wanted closing.

       * * *

The "popular parts" of the Natural History Museum are to remain open, though it is still felt
by the Government that, at a time when the practice of frugality is incumbent upon everybody,
the spectacle of stuffed animals may tend to have a demoralising effect upon the young.

       * * *

From The Evening News:--

    "Our Daily War-time Menu.

            Fish Pie.
  Salt Beef. Turnips or Carrots.
         Baked Potatoes.
         Banana Pancake.
             Coffee."

This will gratify those who believed that our contemporary's diet consisted largely of brimstone.

       * * *

It is reported from Holland that Germans there are refusing German notes. In the United States
however they are still accepted at their face value.

       * * *

It is understood that the Government recruiting authorities, with whose jeu d'esprit all Trafalgar
Square is ringing, have definitely rejected a proposed placard that says--

   "WILL YOU 'ATE NOW
  OR WAIT TILL MARCH 8?"

       * * *

The Admiralty has announced that sea-fishing is included among the certified occupations exempted
from the provisions of the Military Service Act. The suggestion that the other kind of fishermen
should be rejected for psychopathic reasons has been bitterly resented by some of our most
persistent anglers.

       * * *

"Many of the men," writes a correspondent at one of the Fronts, "have apparently been without
shirts for some time, and consequently the Army authorities, with that kindly consideration
which always distinguishes them, have issued to the men a new pair of pants all round."

       * * *

A bird-eating spider has just arrived at the Zoo. While its diet is commonly confined to quite
small birds the animal is understood to have expressed extreme confidence in its ability to
eat eagles, if only to show that its heart is in the right place.

       * * *

"Germany's sea dogs," says the Berliner Tageblatt, "cannot content themselves much longer with
merely showing their teeth." This is obviously unfair to TIRPITZ'S tars, most of whom have
not hesitated to show their tails also.

       * * *

The KAISER at Headquarters lifted his glass to KING FERDINAND, this being the kindliest way
of intimating that he has Bulgaria on toast.

       * * *

It is rumoured that the Government has offered the control of our anti-aircraft defences to
the Office of Works, but that Mr. LULU HARCOURT has declined the responsibility, adding, however,
that he will gladly repair any damage done by Zeppelins to the flower-beds in his department.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORD OF A GERMAN.

  YOUR troth was broken ere the trumpets blew;
    Into the fight with unclean hands you rode;
  Your spurs were sullied and the sword you drew
    Bore stain of outrage done to honour's code.

  And you have played your game as you began.
    Witness the white flag raised by shattered ranks,
  The cry for mercy, answered, man to man--
    And the swift stroke of traitor steel for thanks.

  Once bitten we were twice a little shy,
    And then forgot; but with the mounting score
  Our old good-nature, tried a shade too high,
    Stiffens its lip and means to stand no more.

  So now, when you protest with bleating throat,
    And broider round your wrongs a piteous tale,
  Urging the Neutral Ones to take a note
    That we have passed outside the human pale;

  The world (no fool) will know where lies the blame
    If England lets your pleadings go unheard;
  To grace of chivalry you've lost your claim;
    We've grown too wise to trust a Bosch's word.

    O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BILLETING CAPTAIN.

MY job is to ride on ahead of the regiment, whenever we leave the trenches, and secure accommodation
for men and horses in the place allotted to us. For billeting purposes there are four kinds
of villages behind our front: the good, the indifferent, the positively bad, and the village
of R----. It was to R---- that I was ordered on my first errand of this kind. On the road I
met a friend who holds the same pest in his regiment as I do in mine. I told him where I was
going, and he grinned. "You'll find all the doors locked when you arrive," he said. "The Mayor
is away on service and you won't get any help from his wife. She's the most disagreeable woman
I ever met, and is known for miles round as a holy terror." When at length I reached my destination
I sent the rest of the party in search of barns and stables, proceeding myself towards the
village pump, which I had been told was always a good place to work from. But there was little
sign of life here. The place was deserted, except for one old man who was supporting himself
by the pump handle, while with a stick in his other hand he tried to strafe a hen that had
inadvertently run between his legs.

"Bon jour, M'sieur," I said by way of a start.

"Cigarette anglaise!" replied the patriarch.

I offered my case and was presently being entertained with reminiscences of the war of soixante-dix.
By the time that he had finished his cigarette he had gone further back into history and was
vividly describing the retreat from Moscow under the First Napoleon, on which occasion I gathered
that he had caught a severe cold. There was evidently little help to be gained here, so leaving
my venerable friend amid the Russian snows I went to the nearest house and knocked. Presently
a key turned and the door was opened for about three inches by an old woman.

"Bon jour, Madame," I said in my best French; "I seek a bedroom, if possible one with a bed in it."

She looked me up and down for a moment, then with a "Pas compris" shut and locked the door again.

In the next house they were more obliging. A stout gentleman opened the door and informed me
that unfortunately he possessed only one bed, which was shared by himself and his family of
six children. But as M'sieu was a member of the entente, and if he could find no other accommodation----
But here I fled. Thus it was from house to house, and when later my N.C.O. reported his arrangements
for men and horses satisfactory I had only managed to secure one miserable little room. So
desperate had I become by this time that I determined to face the Mayor's wife, in spite of
my friend's advice. Accordingly I turned towards a house labelled Mairie, and entered the garden,
where a small child was playing. I think without exception he was the ugliest little boy I
have ever seen, but I am a father when home on leave, and he smiled at me in such a nice friendly
way that I stopped and pecked at his cheek as I passed.

When I looked up I saw a grim face regarding me over a pot of geraniums in the window. "Now
for it!" I thought, and was presently face to face with the formidable lady, who asked me in
broken English what my business might be. "Madame," I said, "you see a ruined captain before
you. I have been sent to this village to find twelve bedrooms for my Colonel and brother-officers.
Also a mess-room and an office. In one hour I have secured one room, and even now the regiment
is arriving," for as I spoke the O.C. and some of the others came riding up. On seeing me they
dismounted, and before Madame could say anything she and I were the centre of a little group
of officers.

"Well," said the O.C., "what luck? We're looking forward to real beds again, I can tell you!"

I felt myself growing red. "The men and horses are arranged for, Sir," I stammered, and then
suddenly a voice at my side took up the tale: "And if you will come wiz me I shall 'elp ze
Captain to show to you ze rooms 'e 'as found." Unable to utter a word, I bowed, and we followed
Madame to the first house at which I had earlier tried so unsuccessfully. She knocked at the
door like a fury, and no sooner was it opened than she went in without more ado, and we after
her. "I have come to show M'sieu the Colonel the room that you have prepared for him," she
said in her own language to the old woman, who stood bowing and smiling as hard as she could.
Then she opened a door and took us into the nicest room imaginable.

"'Ere I 'ope you will be 'appy, my Colonel," she continued. "Zis is ze best room ze Captain
could find for you. Also I 'ope you will find Madame aimable;" and here she looked at the old
woman, who started bowing again harder than ever. It was the same at all the other houses.
Passing from one to another she commandeered room after room, even managing to wrest a bed
from the father of six; and I verily believe that the inhabitants would have burned their dwellings
to warm us had the little lady ordered it. All the while she maintained the fiction that I
had arranged things previously.

"I 'ave just come wiz ze Captain to see everyting ees what you call spick," she said on leaving us.

"And a very good business you have made of it," said the O.C. to me approvingly. Still greatly
puzzled, I returned to thank my benefactress. After expressing my gratitude I ventured to tell
her that she had been much kinder to me than I had been led to expect.

"But 'ave I not see you kees my little son?" she said gravely.

"Ah," I said to myself, "that's it!" and, stooping down to where he was playing, I did it again
with added warmth.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the transactions of the Royal Dublin Society:--

    "Professor HUGH RYAN, M.A., D.Sc., and Mr. M. J. WALSH,
    M.Sc.--'On Desoxyhydrocatechintetramethylether.'"

We are not surprised that it took two of them to tackle it.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BLANCHE'S LETTERS.

WAR FASHIONS.

Park Lane.

DEAREST DAPHNE,--People are going to the theatre a good deal, but not in the old way. We wait
in the queue now, and work our way up into the gallery. We leave the stalls and boxes to ces
autres. "Olga" has created a simply charming queue-coat, heavy grey frieze, with plenty of
pockets and a cap to match with ear-pieces. You take a parcel of sandwiches to eat while you're
waiting (the dernier cri is to wrap the parcel in a spotted handkerchief), and, if you want
to be immensely and utterly right, you'll walk home and buy a piece of fried fish on the way
for your supper.

À propos, there's quite a good little story being told about Lady Goreazure and these topsy-turvy
times. She was in the gallery at the Incandescent the other night, and, on coming down, the
gallery people, finding it was pouring in torrents, crowded into the chief entrance for shelter,
to the enormous disgust of the stalls and boxes, who were just coming out. A rose-coloured
satin gown with ante-war bare arms and shoulders, an ermine wrap, and a paste hair-bandeau
was particularly furious, and announced loudly that it was "an abominable shame to mix us up
with the gallery people in this way." Lady Goreazure thought she knew the voice, and, turning,
recognised in the angry pink-satin person her maid, Dawkins, who left her some months ago to
go into munition work. She's a skilled hand now and simply coining money, as she told Lady
G. in a hurried furtive whisper, adding, "Please don't talk to me any more. I shouldn't like
my friends to see that I know anyone from the gallery."

One of the literally burning questions of the moment has been how to dispose of the little
lanterns one's obliged to carry after dark now that so many people have given their motors
to the country and stump it or bus it everywhere. Your Blanche has solved the difficulty and
at the same time set a fashion. My evening boots (what a different meaning that phrase has
from what it once had, my Daphne!) have darling little teeny-weeny lamps fixed to their toes,
so that one can see exactly where one's stepping. With these boots is worn a toque with a small
lamp fastened in a velvet or ribbon chou in front. The boots are for one's own guidance; the
toque illuminante is to show other gropers in the darkness that one's coming. Some people add
a chic little hooter, which clears the way quite nicely and is simply precious in crossing roads.

Speaking of those who've given all their motors to the State and those who haven't, a new social
danger has bobbed up for the latter--the chauffeuse. She's got to be reckoned with, dearest.
In threatening the single lives of people's eldest sons she's leaving even the eternal chorus-girl
down the course, and in releasing one man for the Front she's quite likely to capture another
who counts considerably more!

The Ramsgates thought they'd got a perfect jewel of a chauffeuse--smart, businesslike, knew
town well, knew when she might exceed the speed limit and when she mightn't, thoroughly understood
her car and so on. And then one day Pegwell came back from the Front on sick leave. As soon
as he was well enough he went for a drive every day. Someone said to his mother, "I wonder
you trust your boy out alone with that chauffeuse of yours." And Elizabeth Ramsgate laughed
at the caution. "I only wish Thompson were more dangerous," she said. "There's safety in numbers,
and if she were younger and prettier perhaps she'd switch Peggy's thoughts off that fearful
Dolly de Colty of the Incandescent."

And so Pegwell went on with his drives, and one day they were out so long that his mother was
anxious, and when at last they came back she said, "Oh, Thompson, you've been driving Lord
Pegwell too far; he's not strong enough for such long drives; it was very inconsiderate of
you, Thompson." And the chauffeuse tossed up her chin and cried, "Not so much 'Thompson,' please!"
And Pegwell chipped in with, "This is Lady Pegwell, mother, and in future she'll drive no one
but me!"

Popsy, Lady Ramsgate, is even more furious about it than his parents. "Ramsgate and Elizabeth
have behaved like fools," she said to me yesterday; "they don't know their world in the least,
though they've lived in it nearly half a century. What if the minx wasn't particularly young
and pretty. A chauffeuse is a novelty, and when you've said that you've said everything."

Your Blanche is enormously busy just now editing a book that's going to be the sensation of
the Spring crop of volumes. You're aware, of course, m'amie, that if a book's even to be looked
at now it must be either Somebody's Memories of Everybody Else or Somebody's Experiences in
an Enemy Country. Well, and so Stella Clackmannan and I, in the hostel we run for poor dears
who've lost their situations abroad and have no friends to go to on coming back here, found
among our guests a bright little Cockney who's been what she calls an up-and-down girl in the
Royal Palace at Bashbang, the capital of Rowdydaria. My dearest, the things that girl has climbed
over and crawled under, and the weather she's come through, in escaping from the Rowdydarians
and getting back here! And the things she's seen and heard in the Palace! It will throw a flood
of light on all sorts of things, and will certainly make our F.O. sit up.

With the help of a clever photographer and some imagination we've reconstructed the up-and-down
girl's adventures quite nicely. There are photos of the King of Rowdydaria as head of his own
army; in his uniform as Colonel of the Hun Räuberundmörder Regiment; and in the Arab burnous
in which he is to lead an attack on Egypt. There's a photo of the up-and-down girl sweeping
a passage and listening through a key-hole to a wonderful conversation between the King of
R. and an Emperor who'd come to see him (luckily it was in English and she remembers every
word): "You've got to say you did it." "But I haven't got any navy--I couldn't have done it."
"I'll give you the submarine that did it--or lend it to you. There! now it's yours--for a time.
You don't depend on the Neutralians for any supplies. So you can afford to tell them you did
it--and be quick about it." "But you can't expect even the Neutralians to swallow that!" "Why,
you fool, they'd swallow anything! That's the meaning of their phrase 'rubber-neck.'" There's
a photo of the Queen of Rowdydaria coming up at this point, snatching the broom away, and beating
the up-and-down girl with it, and calling her "Spying English Pig." Altogether, my dear, it's
positively enthralling! Order your copy early, for people will be slaying each other for this
book. Astounding Disclosures of an Up-and-down Girl in the Royal Palace at Bashbang will certainly
quite quite eclipse those two other sensations, What a Buttons Overheard in the Imperial Pickelhaube
Schloss and Amazing Revelations of a Tweeny in the Perhapsburg Hof.

    Ever thine,
    BLANCHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

How to put People at their Ease.

    "The officer in command, Lieut. Berg, was exceedingly
    pleasant, and did all in his power to put the passengers
    at their ease and make them feel comfortable.... He had
    a large bomb placed in the engine-room, and another on
    the bridge, which could be exploded easily by
    electricity."--Daily News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "AMERICA'S LAST WORD FOR
            THE HUN.
      SIXTEEN PAGES TO-DAY."

    Daily Mirror Poster.

These American last words!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

XXXV.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--Things go on here from day to day in a businesslike and orderly fashion,
the comic relief being supplied by a temporary, very temporary, man from overseas, who has
operated for a while at our telephone exchange. Most people, myself included, are overawed
by the dignity and significance of our environment here; not so this Canadian. One of our very
greatest was having words with his instrument the other evening. He supposed, wrongly, that
his antagonist was a hundred kilometres away, and he adjusted his remarks and voice accordingly.
Imagine his pain on being informed, from the exchange, in quite a cheerful and friendly tone,
"I guess you're on the wrong string this time, Mister."

There is also, of course, that never-failing source of satisfaction, the military mess waiter.
I think ours, the other night, excelled all starters in the art of ellipsis. Our meal was interrupted
by a loud bump, crash, cataclysm and bang. We took it that two at least of the enemy's great
offensives had begun, centralising on us and opening with the destruction of all our mess machinery,
personnel and platter. Shortly afterwards Alfred, slightly flushed, came into the room. We
asked him to let us know the worst. All we could get out of him was, "I must 'a' trod on a
bit o' fat, Sir."

You will be touched, I am sure, by the pretty story now current concerning the earnest young
subaltern and the Brigadier. The former was responsible for the training of an expert section,
in no matter what particular black art; the latter called in person one morning to witness
an experimental display. The apparatus was produced, the Brigadier inspected it delicately,
and the section was fallen in, standing near by in an attitude of modest pride. From them the
Brigadier eventually singled out a private to do a star turn; silence was enjoined while the
subaltern should give the private the necessary detail orders. Now the subaltern was one of
the many of us civilians who have a burning ambition not only to achieve perfection always,
but also to maintain on all occasions a superlatively military bearing. Confronted by the private
and expected to order him about, he hesitated, blushed and at last made it clear that he simply
must, before beginning, have a few words apart in the General's private ear. With kindly toleration
the General eventually conceded this, and it was then made more than apparent to him why it
was that the earnest young subaltern was reluctant to give his orders to the private without
some explanation in advance to the Brigadier. "The man's surname is Bhyll, Sir," he whispered.

Red-hats may not always know much about life in the trenches, but they can tell you at first
hand what strafing was like when there were no trenches to live in. You will perhaps care to
hear of an adventure of the good old days, when men wandered about Flanders on their own, sometimes
attaching themselves to English units, sometimes to French, and sometimes marching inadvertently
with the Central Powers. Maps in those days didn't show you clearly which was your bit and
which was the other fellow's, and many a time different parties, meeting in the dark, would
be quite affable in passing, little knowing it was each other's blood they were after. My man,
at the moment when we take up the narrative, was walking about in a wood, looking for a job.
Half an hour earlier he had been busily engaged in a brisk battle, but, owing to his not keeping
his mind on it, he'd got detached and now found himself in one of those peculiarly peaceful
solitudes which only exist in the heart of the war zone. Whether the battle was over and, if
so, who'd won it, he couldn't say. In fact, those being the early confused days, he didn't
rightly know whether it had been a battle at all or just a little personal unpleasantness between
himself and his private enemies. Everything appeared to be exactly as it should not be; he
felt that he ought to be exhilarated with victory or depressed with defeat, exhausted or maimed,
and not merely covered from top to toe with mud. He found himself walking along in a wood,
just as he might do at home, smoking a cigarette and thinking that this would be a most convenient
moment for a wash and a cup of tea. As he said, the very last thing he seemed to be at was
war, when suddenly, climbing over a small ridge, he discovered himself face to face with a
hostile sentry, and near him were, at repose, a knot of other equally repulsive Bosches.

It has struck everyone out here, sooner or later, that it is easy enough to do the thing if
only one could know at the moment what is the thing to do. Here was a sentry whose whole recent
education had been devoted to learning exactly how to deal with new and unwelcome arrivals.
He was furnished for that very purpose with a rifle having a carefully sharpened bayonet at
one end of it and a nice new bullet at the other. There he was, all prepared to deal with an
emergency, and there was the emergency confronting him. Having had a good look at it, he contented
himself with saying "Halt! wer da?" adding as an afterthought a threatening move forward.

On the other hand, here was our friend, young and vigorous, in full possession of all his faculties,
too surprised to be even alarmed. His first tendency was to pass haughtily on or, at the most,
to stop and tell the man to be more respectful when addressing an officer. His second was to
call to mind, in a confused mess, all the brilliant and dashing things a hero of fiction would,
without a moment's hesitation, have done in the circumstances. Lastly, it was borne in on him
that this was indeed a German; that all Germans were, under the new arrangement, sworn to do
in all Englishmen at sight, and that he himself was, beneath his mud, one of the last-named.
Being rather the quicker-witted of the two, he had put in three thoughts to the other fellow's
one; but the position showed no improvement in the result, and the enemy's second thought,
slowly dawning, was obviously of a more practical and drastic nature. His undecided fidgeting
with his rifle made this abundantly clear. No time was to be lost. Our friend realised dimly
that at all costs he must conceal his nationality. This promised to be a matter of languages,
never his strong point. But, there again, he was carefully prepared with a series of useful
phrases in various tongues, which he had learnt up in small and inexpensive hand-books. The
difficulty was to get on to the right one; his mind, having got him thus far, refused further
assistance. Instead of furnishing him with the appropriate remark, it merely suggested to him
a clearly defined picture of the outside of the text-book, particularly emphasizing the elegant
but inept phrase, "One Shilling net at all Booksellers." And what was the use of that with
the sentry's bayonet rapidly coming to the "On guard" position?

It's a long story, Charles, and it ended by our friend ingenuously stating by way of a seasonable
ruse, "Pardon, monsieur, je suis français."

I'd prefer to leave it at that, but you are one of those detestable people who insist on going
on after the climax. So I may as well tell you that at this point our friend's legs took to
action on their own, no doubt remarking to themselves as they did so that this was but another
instance of damned bad Staff work. I sometimes wonder whether possibly it isn't easier to be
a limb than a brain.

    Yours ever,
    HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S POTTED FILMS. THE PASSIONATE DRAMA.

THE DEMON OF JEALOUSY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY PITFALLS.

The Chronicle publishes a most interesting letter received from Mr. G. B. BURGIN, who lately,
if our memory serves us right, completed his fiftieth novel. He writes:--

    "A hitch has arisen about the publication of my novel,
    The Rubber Princess. It deals with an air raid on
    London, etc., and it has been pointed out to me that if
    it appears before the War is over it will probably be
    suppressed, and that I shall be mulcted in pains and
    penalties. I have therefore withdrawn it and substituted
    (for the Spring), with Hutchinsons, The Hut by the
    River, of which I have great hopes. It is a Canadian
    romance, with a pretty love story and a nice little
    mystery at the end."

It will, we are sure, be a consolation to Mr. BURGIN, to whose agility and versatility we desire
to render our homage, to learn that he is not singular in his experience.

Only a few days ago we received a letter from Mr. Bimbo Posh, the famous Suffolk realist, recounting
the circumstances which have led to the postponement of his eagerly-expected romance, The Synthetic
Sovereign.

It appears that Mr. Posh, a man of a most scientific imagination, assigned the rôle of hero
in his story to a marvellous automaton. Unfortunately for him he was not content with generalities,
but described the process by which this artificial superman was produced in such minute detail
that his publishers realised that it might be positively prejudicial to our safety to make
it known. The sequel had best be told in Mr. Posh's own pathetic words:--

    "At first I was fearfully upset, though convinced by the
    arguments of my publishers (Messrs. Longbow and
    Green-i'-th'-Eye). But a happy inspiration seized me as
    I was ascending the escalator at Charing Cross, and in
    exactly a fortnight I had finished another novel,
    entirely divorced from the present, entitled, In Dear
    Old Daffy-land. It is an idyllic story of Suffolk in
    the days of the Heptarchy, founded on an ancestral
    tradition of the Posh family. It runs to about 60,000
    words, and Mr. Longbow, who read it at a sitting, thinks
    it the finest thing I have done."

Curiously enough, just as we go to press comes a letter from Miss Miriam Eldritch, apologising
for the withdrawal of her volume of poems, Attar of Roses, in view of the fact that one of
the leading establishments for the distilling of this perfume is in Bulgaria. Miss Eldritch,
however, has proved fully equal to the occasion, for by a great effort she has composed, in
little over one hundred hours, a cycle of one hundred lyrics, to which she has given the title,
at once alluring and innocuous, of Love in Lavender.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Perturbabantur Constantinopolitani Innumerabilibus sollicitudinibus."

    ["Constantinople is much perturbed."
     Daily Press.]

  In flouting Zeus and Themis, his
  Heart set on cheating Nemesis,
      The Constantinopolitan
  Now rues his impious blunders,
  And fears approaching thunders
      Trinitrotoluolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Gentleman's dark grey fur lined motor coat, fit fairly
    big man, lined with about 150 selected natural musquash
    skins, real Persian lamb collar, the property of a peer,
    in the pink of condition."--The Bazaar.

We trust his lordship will remain so in spite of the inclemency of the weather.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

(EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.)

THE LAST CHAPTER.

House of Commons, Tuesday, 15th February.--After, on nomination of my revered master, Mr. Punch,
representing Barkshire in the Commons during three reigns, under nine Parliaments, captained
in succession by six Premiers, come to conclusion that I have earned the right to retire. Two
ways of voluntarily vacating a seat. One by a call to the Lords. The other by application for
Chiltern Hundreds. Not having heard anything about the Peerage, have adopted latter course.
The MEMBER FOR SARK, loyal to the last, insists on following my example.

Accordingly, when House meets to-morrow, writs will be moved for elections to fill two vacancies.
In ordinary times this would lead to interesting episode. Customary for the Chief Party Whip
to move for writ to fill casual vacancies in his ranks. Would the Ministerial Whip or the Opposition
Whip come forward to take preliminary step for elections consequent on retirement of the MEMBER
FOR BARKS and the MEMBER FOR SARK?

The closest observer of Parliamentary procedure or comment is not sure whether in Party politics
they are Liberals or Conservatives. Cannot indeed say on which side of the House they sit.
As it happens there is at this doubly memorable date no division of parties, consequently no
contending Whips. Writs for Barks and Sark will accordingly be appropriately moved by Whip
representing united House.

Thirty-five years ago Barks first sent me to Westminster. Of Cabinet Ministers then seated
on Treasury Bench none are alive to-day. GLADSTONE, just returned by overwhelming majority,
was Premier; GRANVILLE, with consummate skill and dainty humour, led minority supporting Government
in House of Lords; HARCOURT was at the Home Office; HARTINGTON, Secretary of State for War;
CHILDERS at the Treasury; KIMBERLEY at the India Office; at the Irish Office FORSTER, with
his rumpled hair, his rugged speech and his gruff manner, "the best Stage Yorkshireman of his
time."

Much history has been made since that time. Procedure in the Commons has been revolutionised,
with the result not only of accelerating ordinary business and leading to final issue controversies
futilely raging for years, but radically altering personal tone and manner of Mother of Parliaments.

That is another story, too lengthy to be told here. Glad to know I was intimately acquainted
with the House and, with rare exceptions, with the principal personages in either political
camp through a long stretch of older, more picturesque time.

I close the Diary here, not because I am tired of writing it, nor, as continuous testimony
indicates, because a generous public is tired of reading. But I am not disposed to linger superfluous
on the stage. So I withdraw, carrying with me my little bag of tricks, the sententious Dog,
the cynical SARK and the rest of the contents.

Henceforward some new form will be given to the "Essence of Parliament" which was created by
SHIRLEY BROOKS, and enlivened by the hand of TOM TAYLOR.

Business done.--TOBY, M.P.'S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DIRTY NIGHT.

THE night is starless, with a darkness so enveloping that it seems to possess palpability.
As we reel westward in a smother of water the miracle of how any human being equipped with
but five senses can find and keep his course in the chartless void that envelops us smites
me afresh.

A longing for an atmosphere unimpregnated with petrol eventually sends me stumbling up the
companion-way to the deck. Gripping the rail, I make my way forward, and, peering through the
mirk, distinguish a huddled figure in a sou'wester. Aloof, detached, he steers the shrewdest,
swiftest path ever carved through a wall of blackness on behalf of dependent fellow-creatures.

"A wild night," I shout.

He turns slightly and answers in a hoarse bellow, "The better for us, mister. Keeps the track
clear. Ought to get in ahead o' time."

The yellow glare from our lights glances in broken splashes of colour over the waters, as the
squat craft heaves and rolls with rhythmic regularity. From somewhere below comes the monotonous
throb of the protesting engines. A red light gleams suddenly on our starboard, and I catch
my breath. Æons pass, it seems, before a panther-like clutch at the wheel carries us aside
in time to let the offender plunge drunkenly past. We were near enough to throw a biscuit on
her deck. A swift exchange of badinage follows.

"Lost yer job o' puntin' coal-barges?"

"Yuss--they're usin' donkey-power instead. I give in your name 'fore I left, but they 'adn't
a spare stable." After which, the immediate danger past, we plough our way down a blurred track
on either side of which lurks Peril in a hundred grim and invisible shapes.

The temperature, already low, has begun to drop steadily, and a fine drizzle yields to a penetrating
chilliness which finds its way to one's very marrow. I am glad of my heavy wraps, and inclined,
indeed, to envy the huddled figure, whose coverings are still heavier. Inwardly I wonder what
this clashing of the Nations has meant to him: whether he has wife and children; whether he
keeps their portraits in some deep-buried pocket beneath that accumulation of clothing which
engulfs him to the ear-tips.

I am still speculating when a second figure, moving with the easy gait of one whose feet have
trodden many decks, climbs the companion-way and comes forward in leisurely fashion. The fellow
is no stranger; already, as I came on board, I had a glimpse of that grizzled, masterful jaw
and keen eyes. He peers past me towards his mate.

"Elf!"

"Yuss?"

"Seed anyfink o' young 'Arry lately?'

"Not me!"

"Well, I 'ear 'e done a bit in the lead-slingin' line at a place called Wipers, an' they've
been an' stuck some sort o' French medal on 'is chest."

"Blighter owes me fourpence, anyway," roars Elf; and I infer that neither of them has a high
opinion of 'Arry's character from the civilian point of view.

Follows an interval filled with small confused sounds--the staccato note of a bell, the soft
thud of a passenger's body as he is jerked unexpectedly against the rail, the picturesque ripple
of his expostulations with Providence.

A lamp, burning with unusual and illegal garishness, gives me light enough to examine my watch.
It indicates the proximity of midnight. I realize that I am incredibly stiff and cold, and
am tormented by visions of unattainable comforts.

At last I am conscious of a line of dimmed lights, of a distant roar of escaping steam, of
a violent quivering motion that indicates the slackening of speed. We come to a sudden halt.
The voice of Elf rises triumphant.

"Bill!"

"Yuss?"

"Two minutes arter!"

"Knowed we'd do it!"

And as I stumble blindly forth it is borne upon me that the last Ealing motor-bus has ended
her journey with five minutes to spare.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Egypt is placidly awaiting the event, with the absolute
    conviction that the Turks and Germans will get the
    boating of their lives in the Sinai Desert."--Civil and
    Military Gazette.

They certainly won't get it on the Suez Canal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MODEST SUGGESTION FOR A NEW HUNNISH CANTICLE.

    "KAISER WANTS NEW NATIONAL HYMN."
          "Westminster Gazette" Heading.

    "He shall have it."--Mr. Punch.

  GOD of our Fathers, God of old,
    Who hast for us such sympathy,
  Cast as Thou art in German mould,
    Again we raise our voice to Thee:
  Omnipotence, we need Thy hand
  In air, on sea, canal and land!

  The English (who, Thou knowest, hide
    Contemptibly upon an isle)
  No doubt on Thee have also cried,
    According to their native guile;
  Presumption could no further go
  In those who plunged the world in woe.

  Thou wouldst not hearken to a race
    Possessed of that inhuman Fleet,
  So cruel, arrogant and base,
    So steeped in rancour and deceit.
  'Twas they, remember, they alone,
  Who forced this Burden on Thine own!

  Bless, rather, us! our arms! our cause!
    Pour on us Thy protecting love!
  Sanction our fractures of Thy laws,
    By U,s beneath, by Zeps above!
  Relieve us in this dark impasse;
  Bless all our efforts; bless our gas!

  Deal gently with us should we tend--
    Presuming as Thy favoured Race,
  All flushed to own so great a Friend--
    To dereliction into grace!
  Deal gently with us, Lord, should we
  Once deviate to decency!

  And Him, from Whom such blessings flow,
    Our WILHELM, first of Sons of Light,
  Whose one ambition is to show
    Mankind the rightfulness of Might;
  Bless Him, and forward His device
  To make an Earthly Paradise!

  And should some other star up there
    (For all the stellar space is Thine)
  Demand Thy more immediate care,
    And thus divert Thee from the Rhine,
  Thou need'st but mention it, and He
  Thy Viceroy hero will gladly be!

       *       *       *       *       *

"WANT OF FOOD.

    Salonika.

    On returning to Salonika after an absence of a month, I
    find the situation much relieved as a result of the
    deportation of the enemy Consuls and the energetic
    measures adopted to clear the town of the numerous pies
    previously infesting it."--Provincial Paper.

The headline seems justified.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "I bought a brochure, which explained that the Emperor
    was not physically ill, but his metal condition was
    upset owing to the war."

    Evening Paper.

Another allusion, we suppose, to the depreciation of the Mark.

       *       *       *       *       *

