At the time of my confirmation, at Easter, 1827, I had considerable doubt about this ceremony,
and I already felt a serious falling off of my reverence for religious observances. The boy
who, not many years before, had gazed with agonised sympathy on the altarpiece in the Kreuz
Kirche (Church of the Holy Cross), and had yearned with ecstatic fervour to hang upon the Cross
in place of the Saviour, had now so far lost his veneration for the clergyman, whose preparatory
confirmation classes he attended, as to be quite ready to make fun of him, and even to join
with his comrades in withholding part of his class fees, and spending the money in sweets.
How matters stood with me spiritually was revealed to me, almost to my horror, at the Communion
service, when I walked in procession with my fellow- communicants to the altar to the sound
of organ and choir. The shudder with which I received the Bread and Wine was so ineffaceably
stamped on my memory, that I never again partook of the Communion, lest I should do so with
levity. To avoid this was all the easier for me, seeing that among Protestants such participation
is not compulsory.

I soon, however, seized, or rather created, an opportunity of forcing a breach with the Kreuz
Grammar School, and thus compelled my family to let me go to Leipzig. In self-defence against
what I considered an unjust punishment with which I was threatened by the assistant headmaster,
Baumgarten-Crusius, for whom I otherwise had great respect, I asked to be discharged immediately
from the school on the ground of sudden summons to join my family in Leipzig. I had already
left the Bohme household three months before, and now lived alone in a small garret, where
I was waited on by the widow of a court plate-washer, who at every meal served up the familiar
thin Saxon coffee as almost my sole nourishment. In this attic I did little else but write
verses. Here, too, I formed the first outlines of that stupendous tragedy which afterwards
filled my family with such consternation. The irregular habits I acquired through this premature
domestic independence induced my anxious mother to consent very readily to my removal to Leipzig,
the more so as a part of our scattered family had already migrated there.

My longing for Leipzig, originally aroused by the fantastic impressions I had gained there,
and later by my enthusiasm for a student's life, had recently been still further stimulated.
I had seen scarcely anything of my sister Louisa, at that time a girl of about twenty-two,
as she had gone to the theatre of Breslau shortly after our stepfather's death. Quite recently
she had been in Dresden for a few days on her way to Leipzig, having accepted an engagement
at the theatre there. This meeting with my almost unknown sister, her hearty manifestations
of joy at seeing me again, as well as her sprightly, merry disposition, quite won my heart.
To live with her seemed an alluring prospect, especially as my mother and Ottilie had joined
her for a while. For the first time a sister had treated me with some tenderness. When at last
I reached Leipzig at Christmas in the same year (1827), and there found my mother with Ottilie
and Cecilia (my half-sister), I fancied myself in heaven. Great changes, however, had already
taken place. Louisa was betrothed to a respected and well-to-do bookseller, Friedrich Brockhaus.
This gathering together of the relatives of the penniless bride-elect did not seem to trouble
her remarkably kind-hearted fiance. But my sister may have become uneasy on the subject, for
she soon gave me to understand that she was not taking it quite in good part. Her desire to
secure an entree into the higher social circles of bourgeois life naturally produced a marked
change in her manner, at one time so full of fun, and of this I gradually became so keenly
sensible that finally we were estranged for a time. Moreover, I unfortunately gave her good
cause to reprove my conduct. After I got to Leipzig I quite gave up my studies and all regular
school work, probably owing to the arbitrary and pedantic system in vogue at the school there.

In Leipzig there were two higher-class schools, one called St. Thomas's School, and the other,
and the more modern, St. Nicholas's School. The latter at that time enjoyed a better reputation
than the former; so there I had to go. But the council of teachers before whom I appeared for
my entrance examination at the New Year (1828) thought fit to maintain the dignity of their
school by placing me for a time in the upper third form, whereas at the Kreuz Grammar School
in Dresden I had been in the second form. My disgust at having to lay aside my Homer--from
which I had already made written translations of twelve songs--and take up the lighter Greek
prose writers was indescribable. It hurt my feelings so deeply, and so influenced my behaviour,
that I never made a friend of any teacher in the school. The unsympathetic treatment I met
with made me all the more obstinate, and various other circumstances in my position only added
to this feeling. While student life, as I saw it day by day, inspired me ever more and more
with its rebellious spirit, I unexpectedly met with another cause for despising the dry monotony
of school regime. I refer to the influence of my uncle, Adolph Wagner, which, though he was
long unconscious of it, went a long way towards moulding the growing stripling that I then was.

The fact that my romantic tastes were not based solely on a tendency to superficial amusement
was shown by my ardent attachment to this learned relative. In his manner and conversation
he was certainly very attractive; the many-sidedness of his knowledge, which embraced not only
philology but also philosophy and general poetic literature, rendered intercourse with him
a most entertaining pastime, as all those who knew him used to admit. On the other hand, the
fact that he was denied the gift of writing with equal charm, or clearness, was a singular
defect which seriously lessened his influence upon the literary world, and, in fact, often
made him appear ridiculous, as in a written argument he would perpetrate the most pompous and
involved sentences. This weakness could not have alarmed me, because in the hazy period of
my youth the more incomprehensible any literary extravagance was, the more I admired it; besides
which, I had more experience of his conversation than of his writings. He also seemed to find
pleasure in associating with the lad who could listen with so much heart and soul. Yet unfortunately,
possibly in the fervour of his discourses, of which he was not a little proud, he forgot that
their substance, as well as their form, was far above my youthful powers of comprehension.
I called daily to accompany him on his constitutional walk beyond the city gates, and I shrewdly
suspect that we often provoked the smiles of those passers-by who overheard the profound and
often earnest discussions between us. The subjects generally ranged over everything serious
or sublime throughout the whole realm of knowledge. I took the most enthusiastic interest in
his copious library, and tasted eagerly of almost all branches of literature, without really
grounding myself in any one of them.

My uncle was delighted to find in me a very willing listener to his recital of classic tragedies.
He had made a translation of Oedipus, and, according to his intimate friend Tieck, justly flattered
himself on being an excellent reader.

I remember once, when he was sitting at his desk reading out a Greek tragedy to me, it did
not annoy him when I fell fast asleep, and he afterwards pretended he had not noticed it. I
was also induced to spend my evenings with him, owing to the friendly and genial hospitality
his wife showed me. A very great change had come over my uncle's life since my first acquaintance
with him at Jeannette Thome's. The home which he, together with his sister Friederike, had
found in his friend's house seemed, as time went on, to have brought in its train duties that
were irksome. As his literary work assured him a modest income, he eventually deemed it more
in accordance with his dignity to make a home of his own. A friend of his, of the same age
as himself, the sister of the aesthete Wendt of Leipzig, who afterwards became famous, was
chosen by him to keep house for him. Without saying a word to Jeannette, instead of going for
his usual afternoon walk he went to the church with his chosen bride, and got through the marriage
ceremonies as quickly as possible; and it was only on his return that he informed us he was
leaving, and would have his things removed that very day. He managed to meet the consternation,
perhaps also the reproaches, of his elderly friend with quiet composure; and to the end of
his life he continued his regular daily visits to 'Mam'selle Thome,' who at times would coyly
pretend to sulk. It was only poor Friederike who seemed obliged at times to atone for her brother's
sudden unfaithfulness.

What attracted me in my uncle most strongly was his blunt contempt of the modern pedantry in
State, Church, and School, to which he gave vent with some humour. Despite the great moderation
of his usual views on life, he yet produced on me the effect of a thorough free-thinker. I
was highly delighted by his contempt for the pedantry of the schools. Once, when I had come
into serious conflict with all the teachers of the Nicolai School, and the rector of the school
had approached my uncle, as the only male representative of my family, with a serious complaint
about my behaviour, my uncle asked me during a stroll round the town, with a calm smile as
though he were speaking to one of his own age, what I had been up to with the people at school.
I explained the whole affair to him, and described the punishment to which I had been subjected,
and which seemed to me unjust. He pacified me, and exhorted me to be patient, telling me to
comfort myself with the Spanish proverb, un rey no puede morir, which he explained as meaning
that the ruler of a school must of necessity always be in the right.

He could not, of course, help noticing, to his alarm, the effect upon me of this kind of conversation,
which I was far too young to appreciate. Although it annoyed me one day, when I wanted to begin
reading Goethe's Faust, to hear him say quietly that I was too young to understand it, yet,
according to my thinking, his other conversations about our own great poets, and even about
Shakespeare and Dante, had made me so familiar with these sublime figures that I had now for
some time been secretly busy working out the great tragedy I had already conceived in Dresden.
Since my trouble at school I had devoted all my energies, which ought by rights to have been
exclusively directed to my school duties, to the accomplishment of this task. In this secret
work I had only one confidante, my sister Ottilie, who now lived with me at my mother's. I
can remember the misgivings and alarm which the first confidential communication of my great
poetic enterprise aroused in my good sister; yet she affectionately suffered the tortures I
sometimes inflicted on her by reciting to her in secret, but not without emotion, portions
of my work as it progressed. Once, when I was reciting to her one of the most gruesome scenes,
a heavy thunderstorm came on. When the lightning flashed quite close to us, and the thunder
rolled, my sister felt bound to implore me to stop; but she soon found it was hopeless, and
continued to endure it with touching devotion.

But a more significant storm was brewing on the horizon of my life. My neglect of school reached
such a point that it could not but lead to a rupture. Whilst my dear mother had no presentiment
of this, I awaited the catastrophe with longing rather than with fear.

In order to meet this crisis with dignity I at length decided to surprise my family by disclosing
to them the secret of my tragedy, which was now completed. They were to be informed of this
great event by my uncle. I thought I could rely upon his hearty recognition of my vocation
as a great poet on account of the deep harmony between us on all other questions of life, science,
and art. I therefore sent him my voluminous manuscript, with a long letter which I thought
would please him immensely. In this I communicated to him first my ideas with regard to the
St. Nicholas's School, and then my firm determination from that time forward not to allow any
mere school pedantry to check my free development. But the event turned out very different
from what I had expected. It was a great shock to them. My uncle, quite conscious that he had
been indiscreet, paid a visit to my mother and brother-in-law, in order to report the misfortune
that had befallen the family, reproaching himself for the fact that his influence over me had
not always, perhaps, been for my good. To me he wrote a serious letter of discouragement; and
to this day I cannot understand why he showed so small a sense of humour in understanding my
bad behaviour. To my surprise he merely said that he reproached himself for having corrupted
me by conversations unsuited to my years, but he made no attempt to explain to me good-naturedly
the error of my ways.

The crime this boy of fifteen had committed was, as I said before, to have written a great
tragedy, entitled Leubald und Adelaide.

The manuscript of this drama has unfortunately been lost, but I can still see it clearly in
my mind's eye. The handwriting was most affected, and the backward-sloping tall letters with
which I had aimed at giving it an air of distinction had already been compared by one of my
teachers to Persian hieroglyphics. In this composition I had constructed a drama in which I
had drawn largely upon Shakespeare's Hamlet, King Lear, and Macbeth, and Goethe's Gotz van
Berlichingen. The plot was really based on a modification of Hamlet, the difference consisting
in the fact that my hero is so completely carried away by the appearance of the ghost of his
father, who has been murdered under similar circumstances, and demands vengeance, that he is
driven to fearful deeds of violence; and, with a series of murders on his conscience, he eventually
goes mad. Leubald, whose character is a mixture of Hamlet and Harry Hotspur, had promised his
father's ghost to wipe from the face of the earth the whole race of Roderick, as the ruthless
murderer of the best of fathers was named. After having slain Roderick himself in mortal combat,
and subsequently all his sons and other relations who supported him, there was only one obstacle
that prevented Leubald from fulfilling the dearest wish of his heart, which was to be united
in death with the shade of his father: a child of Roderick's was still alive. During the storming
of his castle the murderer's daughter had been carried away into safety by a faithful suitor,
whom she, however, detested. I had an irresistible impulse to call this maiden 'Adelaide.'
As even at that early age I was a great enthusiast for everything really German, I can only
account for the obviously un-German name of my heroine by my infatuation for Beethoven's Adelaide,
whose tender refrain seemed to me the symbol of all loving appeals. The course of my drama
was now characterised by the strange delays which took place in the accomplishment of this
last murder of vengeance, the chief obstacle to which lay in the sudden passionate love which
arose between Leubald and Adelaide. I succeeded in representing the birth and avowal of this
love by means of extraordinary adventures. Adelaide was once more stolen away by a robber-knight
from the lover who had been sheltering her. After Leubald had thereupon sacrificed the lover
and all his relations, he hastened to the robber's castle, driven thither less by a thirst
for blood than by a longing for death. For this reason he regrets his inability to storm the
robber's castle forthwith, because it is well defended, and, moreover, night is fast falling;
he is therefore obliged to pitch his tent. After raving for a while he sinks down for the first
time exhausted, but being urged, like his prototype Hamlet, by the spirit of his father to
complete his vow of vengeance, he himself suddenly falls into the power of the enemy during
a night assault. In the subterranean dungeons of the castle he meets Roderick's daughter for
the first time. She is a prisoner like himself, and is craftily devising flight. Under circumstances
in which she produces on him the impression of a heavenly vision, she makes her appearance
before him. They fall in love, and fly together into the wilderness, where they realise that
they are deadly enemies. The incipient insanity which was already noticeable in Leubald breaks
out more violently after this discovery, and everything that can be done to intensify it is
contributed by the ghost of his father, which continually comes between the advances of the
lovers. But this ghost is not the only disturber of the conciliating love of Leubald and Adelaide.
The ghost of Roderick also appears, and according to the method followed by Shakespeare in
Richard III., he is joined by the ghosts of all the other members of Adelaide's family whom
Leubald has slain. From the incessant importunities of these ghosts Leubald seeks to free himself
by means of sorcery, and calls to his aid a rascal named Flamming. One of Macbeth's witches
is summoned to lay the ghosts; as she is unable to do this efficiently, the furious Leubald
sends her also to the devil; but with her dying breath she despatches the whole crowd of spirits
who serve her to join the ghosts of those already pursuing him. Leubald, tormented beyond endurance,
and now at last raving mad, turns against his beloved, who is the apparent cause of all his
misery. He stabs her in his fury; then finding himself suddenly at peace, he sinks his head
into her lap, and accepts her last caresses as her life-blood streams over his own dying body.

I had not omitted the smallest detail that could give this plot its proper colouring, and had
drawn on all my knowledge of the tales of the old knights, and my acquaintance with Lear and
Macbeth, to furnish my drama with the most vivid situations. But one of the chief characteristics
of its poetical form I took from the pathetic, humorous, and powerful language of Shakespeare.
The boldness of my grandiloquent and bombastic expressions roused my uncle Adolph's alarm and
astonishment. He was unable to understand how I could have selected and used with inconceivable
exaggeration precisely the most extravagant forms of speech to be found in Lear and Gotz von
Berlichingen. Nevertheless, even after everybody had deafened me with their laments over my
lost time and perverted talents, I was still conscious of a wonderful secret solace in the
face of the calamity that had befallen me. I knew, a fact that no one else could know, namely,
that my work could only be rightly judged when set to the music which I had resolved to write
for it, and which I intended to start composing immediately.

I must now explain my position with respect to music hitherto. For this purpose I must go back
to my earliest attempts in the art. In my family two of my sisters were musical; the elder
one, Rosalie, played the piano, without, however, displaying any marked talent. Clara was more
gifted; in addition to a great deal of musical feeling, and a fine rich touch on the piano,
she possessed a particularly sympathetic voice, the development of which was so premature and
remarkable that, under the tuition of Mieksch, her singing master, who was famous at that time,
she was apparently ready for the role of a prima donna as early as her sixteenth year, and
made her debut at Dresden in Italian opera as 'Cenerentola' in Rossini's opera of that name.
Incidentally I may remark that this premature development proved injurious to Clara's voice,
and was detrimental to her whole career. As I have said, music was represented in our family
by these two sisters. It was chiefly owing to Clara's career that the musical conductor C.
M. von Weber often came to our house. His visits were varied by those of the great male-soprano
Sassaroli; and in addition to these two representatives of German and Italian music, we also
had the company of Mieksch, her singing master. It was on these occasions that I as a child
first heard German and Italian music discussed, and learnt that any one who wished to ingratiate
himself with the Court must show a preference for Italian music, a fact which led to very practical
results in our family council. Clara's talent, while her voice was still sound, was the object
of competition between the representatives of Italian and German opera. I can remember quite
distinctly that from the very beginning I declared myself in favour of German opera; my choice
was determined by the tremendous impression made on me by the two figures of Sassaroli and
Weber. The Italian male-soprano, a huge pot-bellied giant, horrified me with his high effeminate
voice, his astonishing volubility, and his incessant screeching laughter. In spite of his boundless
good-nature and amiability, particularly to my family, I took an uncanny dislike to him. On
account of this dreadful person, the sound of Italian, either spoken or sung, seemed to my
ears almost diabolical; and when, in consequence of my poor sister's misfortune, I heard them
often talking about Italian intrigues and cabals, I conceived so strong a dislike for everything
connected with this nation that even in much later years I used to feel myself carried away
by an impulse of utter detestation and abhorrence.

The less frequent visits of Weber, on the other hand, seemed to have produced upon me those
first sympathetic impressions which I have never since lost. In contrast to Sassaroli's repulsive
figure, Weber's really refined, delicate, and intellectual appearance excited my ecstatic admiration.
His narrow face and finely-cut features, his vivacious though often half-closed eyes, captivated
and thrilled me; whilst even the bad limp with which he walked, and which I often noticed from
our windows when the master was making his way home past our house from the fatiguing rehearsals,
stamped the great musician in my imagination as an exceptional and almost superhuman being.
When, as a boy of nine, my mother introduced me to him, and he asked me what I was going to
be, whether I wanted perhaps to be a musician, my mother told him that, though I was indeed
quite mad on Freischutz, yet she had as yet seen nothing in me which indicated any musical talent.

This showed correct observation on my mother's part; nothing had made so great an impression
on me as the music of Freischutz, and I tried in every possible way to procure a repetition
of the impressions I had received from it, but, strange to say, least of all by the study of
music itself. Instead of this, I contented myself with hearing bits from Freischutz played
by my sisters. Yet my passion for it gradually grew so strong that I can remember taking a
particular fancy for a young man called Spiess, chiefly because he could play the overture
to Freischutz, which I used to ask him to do whenever I met him. It was chiefly the introduction
to this overture which at last led me to attempt, without ever having received any instruction
on the piano, to play this piece in my own peculiar way, for, oddly enough, I was the only
child in our family who had not been given music lessons. This was probably due to my mother's
anxiety to keep me away from any artistic interests of this kind in case they might arouse
in me a longing for the theatre.

When I was about twelve years old, however, my mother engaged a tutor for me named Humann,
from whom I received regular music lessons, though only of a very mediocre description. As
soon as I had acquired a very imperfect knowledge of fingering I begged to be allowed to play
overtures in the form of duets, always keeping Weber as the goal of my ambition. When at length
I had got so far as to be able to play the overture to Freischutz myself, though in a very
faulty manner, I felt the object of my study had been attained, and I had no inclination to
devote any further attention to perfecting my technique.

Yet I had attained this much: I was no longer dependent for music on the playing of others;
from this time forth I used to try and play, albeit very imperfectly, everything I wanted to
know. I also tried Mozart's Don Juan, but was unable to get any pleasure out of it, mainly
because the Italian text in the arrangement for the piano placed the music in a frivolous light
in my eyes, and much in it seemed to me trivial and unmanly. (I can remember that when my sister
used to sing Zerlinen's ariette, Batti, batti, ben Masetto, the music repelled me, as it seemed
so mawkish and effeminate.)

On the other hand, my bent for music grew stronger and stronger, and I now tried to possess
myself of my favourite pieces by making my own copies. I can remember the hesitation with which
my mother for the first time gave me the money to buy the scored paper on which I copied out
Weber's Lutzow's Jagd, which was the first piece of music I transcribed.

Music was still a secondary occupation with me when the news of Weber's death and the longing
to learn his music to Oberon fanned my enthusiasm into flame again. This received fresh impetus
from the afternoon concerts in the Grosser Garten at Dresden, where I often heard my favourite
music played by Zillmann's Town Band, as I thought, exceedingly well. The mysterious joy I
felt in hearing an orchestra play quite close to me still remains one of my most pleasant memories.
The mere tuning up of the instruments put me in a state of mystic excitement; even the striking
of fifths on the violin seemed to me like a greeting from the spirit world-- which, I may mention
incidentally, had a very real meaning for me. When I was still almost a baby, the sound of
these fifths, which has always excited me, was closely associated in my mind with ghosts and
spirits. I remember that even much later in life I could never pass the small palace of Prince
Anthony, at the end of the Ostra Allee in Dresden, without a shudder; for it was there I had
first heard the sound of a violin, a very common experience to me afterwards. It was close
by me, and seemed to my ears to come from the stone figures with which this palace is adorned,
some of which are provided with musical instruments. When I took up my post as musical conductor
at Dresden, and had to pay my official visit to Morgenroth, the President of the Concert Committee,
an elderly gentleman who lived for many years opposite that princely palace, it seemed odd
to find that the player of fifths who had so strongly impressed my musical fancy as a boy was
anything but a supernatural spectre. And when I saw the well-known picture in which a skeleton
plays on his violin to an old man on his deathbed, the ghostly character of those very notes
impressed itself with particular force upon my childish imagination. When at last, as a young
man, I used to listen to the Zillmann Orchestra in the Grosser Garten almost every afternoon,
one may imagine the rapturous thrill with which I drew in all the chaotic variety of sound
that I heard as the orchestra tuned up: the long drawn A of the oboe, which seemed like a call
from the dead to rouse the other instruments, never failed to raise all my nerves to a feverish
pitch of tension, and when the swelling C in the overture to Freischutz told me that I had
stepped, as it were with both feet, right into the magic realm of awe. Any one who had been
watching me at that moment could hardly have failed to see the state I was in, and this in
spite of the fact that I was such a bad performer on the piano.

Another work also exercised a great fascination over me, namely, the overture to Fidelio in
E major, the introduction to which affected me deeply. I asked my sisters about Beethoven,
and learned that the news of his death had just arrived. Obsessed as I still was by the terrible
grief caused by Weber's death, this fresh loss, due to the decease of this great master of
melody, who had only just entered my life, filled me with strange anguish, a feeling nearly
akin to my childish dread of the ghostly fifths on the violin. It was now Beethoven's music
that I longed to know more thoroughly; I came to Leipzig, and found his music to Egmont on
the piano at my sister Louisa's. After that I tried to get hold of his sonatas. At last, at
a concert at the Gewandthaus, I heard one of the master's symphonies for the first time; it
was the Symphony in A major. The effect on me was indescribable. To this must be added the
impression produced on me by Beethoven's features, which I saw in the lithographs that were
circulated everywhere at that time, and by the fact that he was deaf, and lived a quiet secluded
life. I soon conceived an image of him in my mind as a sublime and unique supernatural being,
with whom none could compare. This image was associated in my brain with that of Shakespeare;
in ecstatic dreams I met both of them, saw and spoke to them, and on awakening found myself
bathed in tears.

It was at this time that I came across Mozart's Requiem, which formed the starting-point of
my enthusiastic absorption in the works of that master. His second finale to Don Juan inspired
me to include him in my spirit world.

I was now filled with a desire to compose, as I had before been to write verse. I had, however,
in this case to master the technique of an entirely separate and complicated subject. This
presented greater difficulties than I had met with in writing verse, which came to me fairly
easily. It was these difficulties that drove me to adopt a career which bore some resemblance
to that of a professional musician, whose future distinction would be to win the titles of
Conductor and Writer of Opera.

I now wanted to set Leubald und Adelaide to music, similar to that which Beethoven wrote to
Goethe's Egmont; the various ghosts from the spirit world, who were each to display different
characteristics, were to borrow their own distinctive colouring from appropriate musical accompaniment.
In order to acquire the necessary technique of composition quickly I studied Logier's Methode
des Generalbasses, a work which was specially recommended to me at a musical lending library
as a suitable text-book from which this art might be easily mastered. I have distinct recollections
that the financial difficulties with which I was continually harassed throughout my life began
at this time. I borrowed Logier's book on the weekly payment system, in the fond hope of having
to pay for it only during a few weeks out of the savings of my weekly pocket-money. But the
weeks ran on into months, and I was still unable to compose as well as I wished. Mr. Frederick
Wieck, whose daughter afterwards married Robert Schumann, was at that time the proprietor of
that lending library. He kept sending me troublesome reminders of the debt I owed him; and
when my bill had almost reached the price of Logier's book I had to make a clean breast of
the matter to my family, who thus not only learnt of my financial difficulties in general,
but also of my latest transgression into the domain of music, from which, of course, at the
very most, they expected nothing better than a repetition of Leubald und Adelaide.

There was great consternation at home; my mother, sister, and brother-in-law, with anxious
faces, discussed how my studies should be superintended in future, to prevent my having any
further opportunity for transgressing in this way. No one, however, yet knew the real state
of affairs at school, and they hoped I would soon see the error of my ways in this case as
I had in my former craze for poetry.

But other domestic changes were taking place which necessitated my being for some little time
alone in our house at Leipzig during the summer of 1829, when I was left entirely to my own
devices. It was during this period that my passion for music rose to an extraordinary degree.
I had secretly been taking lessons in harmony from G. Muller, afterwards organist at Altenburg,
an excellent musician belonging to the Leipzig orchestra. Although the payment of these lessons
was also destined to get me into hot water at home later on, I could not even make up to my
teacher for the delay in the payment of his fees by giving him the pleasure of watching me
improve in my studies. His teaching and exercises soon filled me with the greatest disgust,
as to my mind it all seemed so dry. For me music was a spirit, a noble and mystic monster,
and any attempt to regulate it seemed to lower it in my eyes. I gathered much more congenial
instruction about it from Hoffmann's Phantasiestucken than from my Leipzig orchestra player;
and now came the time when I really lived and breathed in Hoffmann's artistic atmosphere of
ghosts and spirits. With my head quite full of Kreissler, Krespel, and other musical spectres
from my favourite author, I imagined that I had at last found in real life a creature who resembled
them: this ideal musician in whom for a time I fancied I had discovered a second Kreissler
was a man called Flachs. He was a tall, exceedingly thin man, with a very narrow head and an
extraordinary way of walking, moving, and speaking, whom I had seen at all those open-air concerts
which formed my principal source of musical education. He was always with the members of the
orchestra, speaking exceedingly quickly, first to one and then the other; for they all knew
him, and seemed to like him. The fact that they were making fun of him I only learned, to my
great confusion, much later. I remember having noticed this strange figure from my earliest
days in Dresden, and I gathered from the conversations which I overheard that he was indeed
well known to all Dresden musicians. This circumstance alone was sufficient to make me take
a great interest in him; but the point about him which attracted me more than anything was
the manner in which he listened to the various items in the programme: he used to give peculiar,
convulsive nods of his head, and blow out his cheeks as though with sighs. All this I regarded
as a sign of spiritual ecstasy. I noticed, moreover, that he was quite alone, that he belonged
to no party, and paid no attention to anything in the garden save the music; whereupon my identification
of this curious being with the conductor Kreissler seemed quite natural. I was determined to
make his acquaintance, and I succeeded in doing so. Who shall describe my delight when, on
going to call on him at his rooms for the first time, I found innumerable bundles of scores!
I had as yet never seen a score. It is true I discovered, to my regret, that he possessed nothing
either by Beethoven, Mozart, or Weber; in fact, nothing but immense quantities of works, masses,
and cantatas by composers such as Staerkel, Stamitz, Steibelt, etc., all of whom were entirely
unknown to me. Yet Flachs was able to tell me so much that was good about them that the respect
which I felt for scores in general helped me to overcome my regret at not finding anything
by my beloved masters. It is true I learnt later that poor Flachs had only come into the possession
of these particular scores through unscrupulous dealers, who had traded on his weakness of
intellect and palmed off this worthless music on him for large sums of money. At all events,
they were scores, and that was quite enough for me. Flachs and I became most intimate; we were
always seen going about together--I, a lanky boy of sixteen, and this weird, shaky flaxpole.
The doors of my deserted home were often opened for this strange guest, who made me play my
compositions to him while he ate bread and cheese. In return, he once arranged one of my airs
for wind instruments, and, to my astonishment, it was actually accepted and played by the band
in Kintschy's Swiss Chalet. That this man had not the smallest capacity to teach me anything
never once occurred to me; I was so firmly convinced of his originality that there was no need
for him to prove it further than by listening patiently to my enthusiastic outpourings. But
as, in course of time, several of his own friends joined us, I could not help noticing that
the worthy Flachs was regarded by them all as a half-witted fool. At first this merely pained
me, but a strange incident unexpectedly occurred which converted me to the general opinion
about him. Flachs was a man of some means, and had fallen into the toils of a young lady of
dubious character who he believed was deeply in love with him. One day, without warning, I
found his house closed to me, and discovered, to my astonishment, that jealousy was the cause.
The unexpected discovery of this liaison, which was my first experience of such a case, filled
me with a strange horror. My friend suddenly appeared to me even more mad than he really was.
I felt so ashamed of my persistent blindness that for some time to come I never went to any
of the garden concerts for fear I should meet my sham Kreissler.

By this time I had composed my first Sonata in D minor. I had also begun a pastoral play, and
had worked it out in what I felt sure must be an entirely unprecedented way.

I chose Goethe's Laune der Verliebten as a model for the form and plot of my work. I scarcely
even drafted out the libretto, however, but worked it out at the same time as the music and
orchestration, so that, while I was writing out one page of the score, I had not even thought
out the words for the next page. I remember distinctly that following this extraordinary method,
although I had not acquired the slightest knowledge about writing for instruments, I actually
worked out a fairly long passage which finally resolved itself into a scene for three female
voices followed by the air for the tenor. My bent for writing for the orchestra was so strong
that I procured a score of Don Juan, and set to work on what I then considered a very careful
orchestration of a fairly long air for soprano. I also wrote a quartette in D major after I
had myself sufficiently mastered the alto for the viola, my ignorance of which had caused me
great difficulty only a short time before, when I was studying a quartette by Haydn.

Armed with these works, I set out in the summer on my first journey as a musician. My sister
Clara, who was married to the singer Wolfram, had an engagement at the theatre at Magdeburg,
whither, in characteristic fashion, I set forth upon my adventure on foot.

My short stay with my relations provided me with many experiences of musical life. It was there
that I met a new freak, whose influence upon me I have never been able to forget. He was a
musical conductor of the name of Kuhnlein, a most extraordinary person. Already advanced in
years, delicate and, unfortunately, given to drink, this man nevertheless impressed one by
something striking and vigorous in his expression. His chief characteristics were an enthusiastic
worship of Mozart and a passionate depreciation of Weber. He had read only one book-- Goethe's
Faust--and in this work there was not a page in which he had not underlined some passage, and
made some remark in praise of Mozart or in disparagement of Weber. It was to this man that
my brother-in-law confided the compositions which I had brought with me in order to learn his
opinion of my abilities. One evening, as we were sitting comfortably in an inn, old Kuhnlein
came in, and approached us with a friendly, though serious manner.

I thought I read good news in his features, but when my brother- in-law asked him what he thought
of my work, he answered quietly and calmly, 'There is not a single good note in it!' My brother-
in-law, who was accustomed to Kuhnlein's eccentricity, gave a loud laugh which reassured me
somewhat. It was impossible to get any advice or coherent reasons for his opinion out of Kuhnlein;
he merely renewed his abuse of Weber and made some references to Mozart which, nevertheless,
made a deep impression upon me, as Kuhnlein's language was always very heated and emphatic.

On the other hand, this visit brought me a great treasure, which was responsible for leading
me in a very different direction from that advised by Kuhnlein. This was the score of Beethoven's
great Quartette in E flat major, which had only been fairly recently published, and of which
my brother-in-law had a copy made for me. Richer in experience, and in the possession of this
treasure, I returned to Leipzig to the nursery of my queer musical studies. But my family had
now returned with my sister Rosalie, and I could no longer keep secret from them the fact that
my connection with the school had been entirely suspended, for a notice was found saying that
I had not attended the school for the last six months. As a complaint addressed by the rector
to my uncle about me had not received adequate attention, the school authorities had apparently
made no further attempts to exercise any supervision over me, which I had indeed rendered quite
impossible by absenting myself altogether.

A fresh council of war was held in the family to discuss what was to be done with me. As I
laid particular stress on my bent for music, my relations thought that I ought, at any rate,
to learn one instrument thoroughly. My brother-in-law, Brockhaus, proposed to send me to Hummel,
at Weimar, to be trained as a pianist, but as I loudly protested that by 'music' I meant 'composing,'
and not 'playing an instrument,' they gave way, and decided to let me have regular lessons
in harmony from Muller, the very musician from whom I had had instruction on the sly some little
while before, and who had not yet been paid. In return for this I promised faithfully to go
back to work conscientiously at St. Nicholas's School. I soon grew tired of both. I could brook
no control, and this unfortunately applied to my musical instruction as well. The dry study
of harmony disgusted me more and more, though I continued to conceive fantasias, sonatas, and
overtures, and work them out by myself. On the other hand, I was spurred on by ambition to
show what I could do at school if I liked. When the Upper School boys were set the task of
writing a poem, I composed a chorus in Greek, on the recent War of Liberation. I can well imagine
that this Greek poem had about as much resemblance to a real Greek oration and poetry, as the
sonatas and overtures I used to compose at that time had to thoroughly professional music.
My attempt was scornfully rejected as a piece of impudence. After that I have no further recollections
of my school. My continued attendance was a pure sacrifice on my side, made out of consideration
for my family: I did not pay the slightest attention to what was taught in the lessons, but
secretly occupied myself all the while with reading any book that happened to attract me.

As my musical instruction also did me no good, I continued in my wilful process of self-education
by copying out the scores of my beloved masters, and in so doing acquired a neat handwriting,
which in later years has often been admired. I believe my copies of the C minor Symphony and
the Ninth Symphony by Beethoven are still preserved as souvenirs.

Beethoven's Ninth Symphony became the mystical goal of all my strange thoughts and desires
about music. I was first attracted to it by the opinion prevalent among musicians, not only
in Leipzig but elsewhere, that this work had been written by Beethoven when he was already
half mad. It was considered the 'non plus ultra' of all that was fantastic and incomprehensible,
and this was quite enough to rouse in me a passionate desire to study this mysterious work.
At the very first glance at the score, of which I obtained possession with such difficulty,
I felt irresistibly attracted by the long-sustained pure fifths with which the first phrase
opens: these chords, which, as I related above, had played such a supernatural part in my childish
impressions of music, seemed in this case to form the spiritual keynote of my own life. This,
I thought, must surely contain the secret of all secrets, and accordingly the first thing to
be done was to make the score my own by a process of laborious copying. I well remember that
on one occasion the sudden appearance of the dawn made such an uncanny impression on my excited
nerves that I jumped into bed with a scream as though I had seen a ghost. The symphony at that
time had not yet been arranged for the piano; it had found so little favour that the publisher
did not feel inclined to run the risk of producing it. I set to work at it, and actually composed
a complete piano solo, which I tried to play to myself. I sent my work to Schott, the publisher
of the score, at Mainz. I received in reply a letter saying 'that the publishers had not yet
decided to issue the Ninth Symphony for the piano, but that they would gladly keep my laborious
work,' and offered me remuneration in the shape of the score of the great Missa Solemnis in
D, which I accepted with great pleasure.

In addition to this work I practised the violin for some time, as my harmony master very rightly
considered that some knowledge of the practical working of this instrument was indispensable
for any one who had the intention of composing for the orchestra. My mother, indeed, paid the
violinist Sipp (who was still playing in the Leipzig orchestra in 1865) eight thalers for a
violin (I do not know what became of it), with which for quite three months I must have inflicted
unutterable torture upon my mother and sister by practising in my tiny little room. I got so
far as to play certain Variations in F sharp by Mayseder, but only reached the second or third.
After that I have no further recollections of this practising, in which my family fortunately
had very good reasons of their own for not encouraging me.

But the time now arrived when my interest in the theatre again took a passionate hold upon
me. A new company had been formed in my birthplace under very good auspices. The Board of Management
of the Court Theatre at Dresden had taken over the management of the Leipzig theatre for three
years. My sister Rosalie was a member of the company, and through her I could always gain admittance
to the performances; and that which in my childhood had been merely the interest aroused by
a strange spirit of curiosity now became a more deep-seated and conscious passion.

Julius Caesar, Macbeth, Hamlet, the plays of Schiller, and to crown all, Goethe's Faust, excited
and stirred me deeply. The Opera was giving the first performances of Marschner's Vampir and
Templer und Judin. The Italian company arrived from Dresden, and fascinated the Leipzig audience
by their consummate mastery of their art. Even I was almost carried away by the enthusiasm
with which the town was over-whelmed, into forgetting the boyish impressions which Signor Sassaroli
had stamped upon my mind, when another miracle--which also came to us from Dresden--suddenly
gave a new direction to my artistic feelings and exercised a decisive influence over my whole
life. This consisted of a special performance given by Wilhelmine Schroder-Devrient, who at
that time was at the zenith of her artistic career, young, beautiful, and ardent, and whose
like I have never again seen on the stage. She made her appearance in Fidelio.

If I look back on my life as a whole, I can find no event that produced so profound an impression
upon me. Any one who can remember that wonderful woman at this period of her life must to some
extent have experienced the almost Satanic ardour which the intensely human art of this incomparable
actress poured into his veins. After the performance I rushed to a friend's house and wrote
a short note to the singer, in which I briefly told her that from that moment my life had acquired
its true significance, and that if in days to come she should ever hear my name praised in
the world of Art, she must remember that she had that evening made me what I then swore it
was my destiny to become. This note I left at her hotel, and ran out into the night as if I
were mad. In the year 1842, when I went to Dresden to make my debut with Rienzi, I paid several
visits to the kind-hearted singer, who startled me on one occasion by repeating this letter
word for word. It seemed to have made an impression on her too, as she had actually kept it.

At this point I feel myself obliged to acknowledge that the great confusion which now began
to prevail in my life, and particularly in my studies, was due to the inordinate effect this
artistic interpretation had upon me. I did not know where to turn, or how to set about producing
something myself which might place me in direct contact with the impression I had received,
while everything that could not be brought into touch with it seemed to me so shallow and meaningless
that I could not possibly trouble myself with it. I should have liked to compose a work worthy
of a Schroder-Devrient; but as this was quite beyond my power, in my head-long despair I let
all artistic endeavour slide, and as my work was also utterly insufficient to absorb me, I
flung myself recklessly into the life of the moment in the company of strangely chosen associates,
and indulged in all kinds of youthful excesses.

I now entered into all the dissipations of raw manhood, the outward ugliness and inward emptiness
of which make me marvel to this day. My intercourse with those of my own age had always been
the result of pure chance. I cannot remember that any special inclination or attraction determined
me in the choice of my young friends. While I can honestly say that I was never in a position
to stand aloof out of envy from any one who was specially gifted, I can only explain my indifference
in the choice of my associates by the fact that through inexperience regarding the sort of
companionship that would be of advantage to me, I cared only to have some one who would accompany
me in my excursions, and to whom I could pour out my feelings to my heart's content without
caring what effect it might have upon him. The result of this was that after a stream of confidences
to which my own excitement was the only response, I at length reached the point when I turned
and looked at my friend; to my astonishment I generally found that there was no question of
response at all, and as soon as I set my heart on drawing something from him in return, and
urged him to confide in me, when he really had nothing to tell, the connection usually came
to an end and left no trace on my life. In a certain sense my strange relationship with Flachs
was typical of the great majority of my ties in after-life. Consequently, as no lasting personal
bond of friendship ever found its way into my life, it is easy to understand how delight in
the dissipations of student life could become a passion of some duration, because in it individual
intercourse is entirely replaced by a common circle of acquaintances. In the midst of rowdyism
and ragging of the most foolish description, I remained quite alone, and it is quite possible
that these frivolities formed a protecting hedge round my inmost soul, which needed time to
grow to its natural strength and not be weakened by reaching maturity too soon.

My life seemed to break up in all directions; I had to leave St. Nicholas's School at Easter
1830, as I was too deeply in disgrace with the staff of masters ever to hope for any promotion
in the University from that quarter. It was now determined that I should study privately for
six months and then go to St. Thomas's School, where I should be in fresh surroundings and
be able to work up and qualify in a short time for the University. My uncle Adolph, with whom
I was constantly renewing my friendship, and who also encouraged me about my music and exercised
a good influence over me in that respect, in spite of the utter degradation of my life at that
time, kept arousing in me an ever fresh desire for scientific studies. I took private lessons
in Greek from a scholar, and read Sophocles with him. For a time I hoped this noble poet would
again inspire me to get a real hold on the language, but the hope was vain. I had not chosen
the right teacher, and, moreover, his sitting-room in which we pursued our studies looked out
on a tanyard, the repulsive odour of which affected my nerves so strongly that I became thoroughly
disgusted both with Sophocles and Greek. My brother-in-law, Brockhaus, who wanted to put me
in the way of earning some pocket-money, gave me the correcting of the proof-sheets of a new
edition he was bringing out of Becker's Universal History, revised by Lobell. This gave me
a reason for improving by private study the superficial general instruction on every subject
which is given at school, and I thus acquired the valuable knowledge which I was destined to
have in later life of most of the branches of learning so uninterestingly taught in class.
I must not forget to mention that, to a certain extent, the attraction exercised over me by
this first closer study of history was due to the fact that it brought me in eightpence a sheet,
and I thus found myself in one of the rarest positions in my life, actually earning money;
yet I should be doing myself an injustice if I did not bear in mind the vivid impressions I
now for the first time received upon turning my serious attention to those periods of history
with which I had hitherto had a very superficial acquaintance. All I recollect about my school
days in this connection is that I was attracted by the classical period of Greek history; Marathon,
Salamis, and Thermopylae composed the canon of all that interested me in the subject. Now for
the first time I made an intimate acquaintance with the Middle Ages and the French Revolution,
as my work in correcting dealt precisely with the two volumes which contained these two periods.
I remember in particular that the description of the Revolution filled me with sincere hatred
for its heroes; unfamiliar as I was with the previous history of France, my human sympathy
was horrified by the cruelty of the men of that day, and this purely human impulse remained
so strong in me that I remember how even quite recently it cost me a real struggle to give
any weight to the true political significance of those acts of violence.

How great, then, was my astonishment when one day the current political events of the time
enabled me, as it were, to gain a personal experience of the sort of national upheavals with
which I had come into distant contact in the course of my proof- correcting. The special editions
of the Leipzig Gazette brought us the news of the July Revolution in Paris. The King of France
had been driven from his throne; Lafayette, who a moment before had seemed a myth to me, was
again riding through a cheering crowd in the streets of Paris; the Swiss Guards had once more
been butchered in the Tuileries, and a new King knew no better way of commending himself to
the populace than by declaring himself the embodiment of the Republic. Suddenly to become conscious
of living at a time in which such things took place could not fail to have a startling effect
on a boy of seventeen. The world as a historic phenomenon began from that day in my eyes, and
naturally my sympathies were wholly on the side of the Revolution, which I regarded in the
light of a heroic popular struggle crowned with victory, and free from the blemish of the terrible
excesses that stained the first French Revolution. As the whole of Europe, including some of
the German states, was soon plunged more or less violently into rebellion, I remained for some
time in a feverish state of suspense, and now first turned my attention to the causes of these
upheavals, which I regarded as struggles of the young and hopeful against the old and effete
portion of mankind. Saxony also did not remain unscathed; in Dresden it came to actual fighting
in the streets, which immediately produced a political change in the shape of the proclamation
of the regency of the future King Frederick, and the granting of a constitution. This event
filled me with such enthusiasm that I composed a political overture, the prelude of which depicted
dark oppression in the midst of which a strain was at last heard under which, to make my meaning
clearer, I wrote the words Friedrich und Freiheil; this strain was intended to develop gradually
and majestically into the fullest triumph, which I hoped shortly to see successfully performed
at one of the Leipzig Garden Concerts.

However, before I was able to develop my politico-musical conceptions further, disorders broke
out in Leipzig itself which summoned me from the precincts of Art to take a direct share in
national life. National life in Leipzig at this time meant nothing more than antagonism between
the students and the police, the latter being the arch-enemy upon whom the youthful love of
liberty vented itself. Some students had been arrested in a street broil who were now to be
rescued. The under-graduates, who had been restless for some days, assembled one evening in
the Market Place and the Clubs, mustered together, and made a ring round their leaders. The
whole proceeding was marked by a certain measured solemnity, which impressed me deeply. They
sang Gaudeamus igitur, formed up into column, and picking up from the crowd any young men who
sympathised with them, marched gravely and resolutely from the Market Place to the University
buildings, to open the cells and set free the students who had been arrested. My heart beat
fast as I marched with them to this 'Taking of the Bastille,' but things did not turn out as
we expected, for in the courtyard of the Paulinum the solemn procession was stopped by Rector
Krug, who had come down to meet it with his grey head bared; his assurance that the captives
had already been released at his request was greeted with a thundering cheer, and the matter
seemed at an end.

But the tense expectation of a revolution had grown too great not to demand some sacrifice.
A summons was suddenly spread calling us to a notorious alley in order to exercise popular
justice upon a hated magistrate who, it was rumoured, had unlawfully taken under his protection
a certain house of ill-fame in that quarter. When I reached the spot with the tail-end of the
crowd, I found the house had been broken into and all sorts of violence had been committed.
I recall with horror the intoxicating effect this unreasoning fury had upon me, and cannot
deny that without the slightest personal provocation I shared, like one possessed, in the frantic
onslaught of the undergraduates, who madly shattered furniture and crockery to bits. I do not
believe that the ostensible motive for this outrage, which, it is true, was to be found in
a fact that was a grave menace to public morality, had any weight with me whatever; on the
contrary, it was the purely devilish fury of these popular outbursts that drew me, too, like
a madman into their vortex.

The fact that such fits of fury are not quick to abate, but, in accordance with certain natural
laws, reach their proper conclusion only after they have degenerated into frenzy, I was to
learn in my own person. Scarcely did the summons ring out for us to march to another resort
of the same kind than I too found myself in the tide which set towards the opposite end of
the town. There the same exploits were repeated, and the most ludicrous outrages perpetrated.
I cannot remember that the enjoyment of alcoholic drinks contributed to the intoxication of
myself and my immediate fellows. I only know that I finally got into the state that usually
succeeds a debauch, and upon waking next morning, as if from a hideous nightmare, had to convince
myself that I had really taken part in the events of the previous night by a trophy I possessed
in the shape of a tattered red curtain, which I had brought home as a token of my prowess.
The thought that people generally, and my own family in particular, were wont to put a lenient
construction upon youthful escapades was a great comfort to me; outbursts of this kind on the
part of the young were regarded as righteous indignation against really serious scandals, and
there was no need for me to be afraid of owning up to having taken part in such excesses.

The dangerous example, however, which had been set by the undergraduates incited the lower
classes and the mob to similar excesses on the following nights, against employers and any
who were obnoxious to them. The matter at once assumed a more serious complexion; property
was threatened, and a conflict between rich and poor stood grinning at our doors. As there
were no soldiers in the town, and the police were thoroughly disorganised, the students were
called in as a protection against the lower orders. An undergraduate's hour of glory now began,
such as I could only have thirsted for in my schoolboy dreams. The student became the tutelar
deity of Leipzig, called on by the authorities to arm and band together in defence of property,
and the same young men who two days before had yielded to a rage for destruction, now mustered
in the University courtyard. The proscribed names of the students' clubs and unions were shouted
by the mouths of town councillors and chief constables in order to summon curiously equipped
undergraduates, who thereupon, in simple mediaeval array of war, scattered throughout the town,
occupied the guard-rooms at the gates, provided sentinels for the grounds of various wealthy
merchants, and, as occasion demanded, took places which seemed threatened, more especially
inns, under their permanent protection.

Though, unluckily, I was not yet a member of their body, I anticipated the delights of academic
citizenship by half- impudent, half-obsequious solicitation of the leaders of the students
whom I honoured most. I had the good fortune to recommend myself particularly to these 'cocks
of the walk,' as they were styled, on account of my relationship to Brockhaus, in whose grounds
the main body of these champions were encamped for some time. My brother-in-law was among those
who had been seriously threatened, and it was only owing to really great presence of mind and
assurance that he succeeded in saving his printing works, and especially his steam presses,
which were the chief object of attack, from destruction. To protect his property against further
assault, detachments of students were told off to his grounds as well; the excellent entertainment
which the generous master of the house offered his jovial guardians in his pleasant summer-house
enticed the pick of the students to him. My brother-in-law was for several weeks guarded day
and night against possible attacks by the populace, and on this occasion, as the mediator of
a flowing hospitality, I celebrated among the most famous 'bloods' of the University the true
saturnalia of my scholarly ambition.

For a still longer period the guarding of the gates was entrusted to the students; the unheard-of
splendour which accordingly became associated with this post drew fresh aspirants to the spot
from far and near. Every day huge chartered vehicles discharged at the Halle Gate whole bands
of the boldest sons of learning from Halle, Jena, Gottingen, and the remotest regions. They
got down close to the guards at the gate, and for several weeks never set foot in an inn or
any other dwelling; they lived at the expense of the Council, drew vouchers on the police for
food and drink, and knew but one care, that the possibility of a general quieting of men's
minds would make their opportune guardianship superfluous. I never missed a day on guard or
a night either, alas! trying to impress on my family the urgent need for my personal endurance.
Of course, the quieter and really studious spirits among us soon resigned these duties, and
only the flower of the flock of undergraduates remained so staunch that it became difficult
for the authorities to relieve them of their task. I held out to the very last, and succeeded
in making most astonishing friends for my age. Many of the most audacious remained in Leipzig
even when there was no guard duty to fulfil, and peopled the place for some time with champions
of an extraordinarily desperate and dissipated type, who had been repeatedly sent down from
various universities for rowdyism or debt, and who now, thanks to the exceptional circumstances
of the day, found a refuge in Leipzig, where at first they had been received with open arms
by the general enthusiasm of their comrades.

In the presence of all these phenomena I felt as if I were surrounded by the results of an
earthquake which had upset the usual order of things. My brother-in-law, Friedrich Brockhaus,
who could justly taunt the former authorities of the place with their inability to maintain
peace and order, was carried away by the current of a formidable movement of opposition. He
made a daring speech at the Guildhall before their worships the Town Council, which brought
him popularity, and he was appointed second-in-command of the newly constituted Leipzig Municipal
Guard. This body at length ousted my adored students from the guard-rooms of the town gates,
and we no longer had the right of stopping travellers and inspecting their passes. On the other
hand, I flattered myself that I might regard my new position as a boy citizen as equivalent
to that of the French National Guard, and my brother-in-law, Brockhaus, as a Saxon Lafayette,
which, at all events, succeeded in furnishing my soaring excitement with a healthy stimulant.
I now began to read the papers and cultivate politics enthusiastically; however, the social
intercourse of the civic world did not attract me sufficiently to make me false to my beloved
academic associates. I followed them faithfully from the guard-rooms to the ordinary bars,
where their splendour as men of the literary world now sought retirement.

My chief ambition was to become one of them as soon as possible. This, however, could only
be accomplished by being again entered at a grammar school. St. Thomas's, whose headmaster
was a feeble old man, was the place where my wishes could be most speedily attained.

I joined the school in the autumn of 1830 simply with the intention of qualifying myself for
the Leaving Examination by merely nominal attendance there. The chief thing in connection with
it was that I and friends of the same bent succeeded in establishing a sham students' association
called the Freshman's Club. It was formed with all possible pedantry, the institution of the
'Comment' was introduced, fencing-practice and sword-bouts were held, and an inaugural meeting
to which several prominent students were invited, and at which I presided as 'Vice' in white
buckskin trousers and great jack-boots, gave me a foretaste of the delights awaiting me as
a full-blown son of the Muses.

The masters of St. Thomas's, however, were not quite so ready to fall in with my aspirations
to studentship; at the end of the half-year they were of the opinion that I had not given a
thought to their institution, and nothing could persuade them that I had earned a title to
academic citizenship by any acquisition of knowledge. Some sort of decision was necessary,
so I accordingly informed my family that I had made up my mind not to study for a profession
at the University, but to become a musician. There was nothing to prevent me matriculating
as 'Studiosus Musicae,' and, without therefore troubling myself about the pedantries of the
authorities at St. Thomas's, I defiantly quitted that seat of learning from which I had derived
small profit, and presented myself forthwith to the rector of the University, whose acquaintance
I had made on the evening of the riot, to be enrolled as a student of music. This was accordingly
done without further ado, on the payment of the usual fees.

I was in a great hurry about it, for in a week the Easter vacation would begin, and the 'men'
would go down from Leipzig, when it would be impossible to be elected member of a club until
the vacation was over, and to stay all those weeks at home in Leipzig without having the right
to wear the coveted colours seemed to me unendurable torture. Straight from the rector's presence
I ran like a wounded animal to the fencing school, to present myself for admission to the Saxon
Club, showing my card of matriculation. I attained my object, I could wear the colours of the
Saxonia, which was in the fashion at that time, and in great request because it numbered so
many delightful members in its ranks.

The strangest fate was to befall me in this Easter vacation, during which I was really the
only remaining representative of the Saxon Club in Leipzig. In the beginning this club consisted
chiefly of men of good family as well as the better class elements of the student world; all
of them were members of highly placed and well-to-do families in Saxony in general, and in
particular from the capital, Dresden, and spent their vacation at their respective homes. There
remained in Leipzig during the vacations only those wandering students who had no homes, and
for whom in reality it was always or never holiday time. Among those a separate club had arisen
of daring and desperate young reprobates who had found a last refuge, as I said, at Leipzig
in the glorious period I have recorded. I had already made the personal acquaintance of these
swashbucklers, who pleased my fancy greatly, when they were guarding the Brockhaus grounds.
Although the regular duration of a university course did not exceed three years, most of these
men had never left their universities for six or seven years.

I was particularly fascinated by a man called Gebhardt, who was endowed with extraordinary
physical beauty and strength, and whose slim heroic figure towered head and shoulders above
all his companions. When he walked down the street arm-in-arm with two of the strongest of
his comrades, he used suddenly to take it into his head, by an easy movement of his arm, to
lift his friends high in the air and flutter along in this way as though he had a pair of human
wings. When a cab was going along the streets at a sharp trot, he would seize a spoke of the
wheel with one hand and force it to pull up. Nobody ever told him that he was stupid because
they were afraid of his strength, hence his limitations were scarcely noticed. His redoubtable
strength, combined with a temperate disposition, lent him a majestic dignity which placed him
above the level of an ordinary mortal. He had come to Leipzig from Mecklenburg in the company
of a certain Degelow, who was as powerful and adroit, though by no means of such gigantic proportions,
as his friend, and whose chief attraction lay in his great vivacity and animated features,
he had led a wild and dissipated life in which play, drink, passionate love affairs, and constant
and prompt duelling had rung the changes. Ceremonious politeness, an ironic and pedantic coldness,
which testified to bold self-confidence, combined with a very hot temper, formed the chief
characteristics of this personage and natures akin to his. Degelow's wildness and passion were
lent a curious diabolical charm by the possession of a malicious humour which he often turned
against himself, whereas towards others he exercised a certain chivalrous tenderness.

These two extraordinary men were joined by others who possessed all the qualities essential
to a reckless life, together with real and headstrong valour. One of them, named Stelzer, a
regular Berserker out of the Nibelungenlied, who was nick-named Lope, was in his twentieth
term. While these men openly and consciously belonged to a world doomed to destruction, and
all their actions and escapades could only be explained by the hypothesis that they all believed
that inevitable ruin was imminent, I made in their company the acquaintance of a certain Schroter,
who particularly attracted me by his cordial disposition, pleasant Hanoverian accent, and refined
wit. He was not one of the regular young dare-devils, towards whom he adopted a calm observant
attitude, while they were all fond of him and glad to see him. I made a real friend of this
Schroter, although he was much older than I was. Through him I became acquainted with the works
and poems of H. Heine, and from him I acquired a certain neat and saucy wit, and I was quite
ready to surrender myself to his agreeable influence in the hope of improving my outward bearing.
It was his company in particular that I sought every day; in the afternoon I generally met
him in the Rosenthal or Kintschy's Chalet, though always in the presence of those wonderful
Goths who excited at once my alarm and admiration.

They all belonged to university clubs which were on hostile terms with the one of which I was
a member. What this hostility between the various clubs meant only those can judge who are
familiar with the tone prevalent among them in those days. The mere sight of hostile colours
sufficed to infuriate these men, who otherwise were kind and gentle, provided they had taken
the slightest drop too much. At all events, as long as the old stagers were sober they would
look with good-natured complacency at a slight young fellow like me in the hostile colours
moving among them so amicably. Those colours I wore in my own peculiar fashion. I had made
use of the brief week during which my club was still in Leipzig to become the possessor of
a splendid 'Saxon' cap, richly embroidered with silver, and worn by a man called Muller, who
was afterwards a prominent constable at Dresden. I had been seized with such a violent craving
for this cap that I managed to buy it from him, as he wanted money to go home. In spite of
this remarkable cap I was, as I have said, welcome in the den of this band of rowdies: my friend
Schroter saw to that. It was only when the grog, which was the principal beverage of these
wild spirits, began to work that I used to notice curious glances and overhear doubtful speeches,
the significance of which was for some time hidden from me by the dizziness in which my own
senses were plunged by this baneful drink.

As I was inevitably bound on this account to be mixed up in quarrels for some time to come,
it afforded me a great satisfaction that my first fight, as a matter of fact, arose from an
incident more creditable to me than those provocations which I had left half unnoticed. One
day Degelow came up to Schroter and me in a wine-bar that we often frequented, and in quite
a friendly manner confessed to us confidentially his liking for a young and very pretty actress
whose talent Schroter disputed. Degelow rejoined that this was as it might be, but that, for
his part, he regarded the young lady as the most respectable woman in the theatre. I at once
asked him if he considered my sister's reputation was not as good. According to students' notions
it was impossible for Degelow, who doubtless had not the remotest intention of being insulting,
to give me any assurance further than to say that he certainly did not think my sister had
an inferior reputation, but that, nevertheless, he meant to abide by his assertion concerning
the young lady he had mentioned. Hereupon followed without delay the usual challenge, opening
with the words, 'You're an ass,' which sounded almost ridiculous to my own ears when I said
them to this seasoned swashbuckler.

I remember that Degelow too gasped with astonishment, and lightning seemed to flash from his
eyes; but he controlled himself in the presence of my friend, and proceeded to observe the
usual formalities of a challenge, and chose broadswords (krumme Sabel) as the weapons for the
fight. The event made a great stir among our companions, but I saw less reason than before
to abstain from my usual intercourse with them. Only I became more strict about the behaviour
of the swashbucklers, and for several days no evening passed without producing a challenge
between me and some formidable bully, until at last Count Solms, the only member of my club
who had returned to Leipzig as yet, visited me as though he were an intimate friend and inquired
into what had occurred. He applauded my conduct, but advised me not to wear my colours until
the return of our comrades from the vacation, and to keep away from the bad company into which
I had ventured. Fortunately I had not long to wait; university life soon began again, and the
fencing ground was filled. The unenviable position, in which, in student phrase, I was suspended
with a half-dozen of the most terrible swordsmen, earned me a glorious reputation among the
'freshmen' and 'juniors,' and even among the older 'champions' of the Saxonia.

My seconds were duly arranged, the dates for the various duels on hand settled, and by the
care of my seniors the needful time was secured for me to acquire some sort of skill in fencing.
The light heart with which I awaited the fate which threatened me in at least one of the impending
encounters I myself could not understand at the time; on the other hand, the way in which that
fate preserved me from the consequences of my rashness seems truly miraculous in my eyes to
this day, and, worthy of further description.

The preparations for a duel included obtaining some experience of these encounters by being
present at several of them. We freshmen attained this object by what is called 'carrying duty,'
that is to say, we were entrusted with the rapiers of the corps (precious weapons of honour
belonging to the association), and had to take them first to the grinder and thence to the
scene of encounter, a proceeding which was attended with some danger, as it had to be done
surreptitiously, since duelling was forbidden by law; in return we acquired the right of assisting
as spectators at the impending engagements.

When I had earned this honour, the meeting-place chosen for the duel I was to watch was the
billiard-room of an inn in the Burgstrasse; the table had been moved to one side, and on it
the authorised spectators took their places. Among them I stood up with a beating heart to
watch the dangerous encounters between those doughty champions. I was told on this occasion
of the story of one of my friends (a Jew named Levy, but known as Lippert), who on this very
floor had given so much ground before his antagonist that the door had to be opened for him,
and he fell back through it down the steps into the street, still believing he was engaged
in the duel. When several bouts had been finished, two men came on to the 'pitch,' Tempel,
the president of the Markomanen, and a certain Wohlfart, an old stager, already in his fourteenth
half-year of study, with whom I also was booked for an encounter later on. When this was the
case, a man was not allowed to watch, in order that the weak points of the duellist might not
be betrayed to his future opponent. Wohlfart was accordingly asked by my chiefs whether he
wanted me removed; whereupon he replied with calm contempt, 'Let them leave the little freshman
there, in God's name!' Thus I became an eye-witness of the disablement of a swordsman who nevertheless
showed himself so experienced and skilful on the occasion that I might well have become alarmed
for the issue of my future encounter with him. His gigantic opponent cut the artery of his
right arm, which at once ended the fight; the surgeon declared that Wohlfart would not be able
to hold a sword again for years, under which circumstances my proposed meeting with him was
at once cancelled. I do not deny that this incident cheered my soul.

Shortly afterwards the first general reunion of our club was held at the Green Tap. These gatherings
are regular hot-beds for the production of duels. Here I brought upon myself a new encounter
with one Tischer, but learned at the same time that I had been relieved of two of my most formidable
previous engagements of the kind by the disappearance of my opponents, both of whom had escaped
on account of debt and left no trace behind them. The only one of whom I could hear anything
was the terrible Stelzer, surnamed Lope. This fellow had taken advantage of the passing of
Polish refugees, who had at that time already been driven over the frontier and were making
their way through Germany to France, to disguise himself as an ill-starred champion of freedom,
and he subsequently found his way to the Foreign Legion in Algeria. On the way home from the
gathering, Degelow, whom I was to meet in a few weeks, proposed a 'truce.' This was a device
which, if it was accepted, as it was in this case, enabled the future combatants to entertain
and talk to one another, which was otherwise most strictly forbidden. We wandered back to the
town arm-in-arm; with chivalrous tenderness my interesting and formidable opponent declared
that he was delighted at the prospect of crossing swords with me in a few weeks' time; that
he regarded it as an honour and a pleasure, as he was fond of me and respected me for my valorous
conduct. Seldom has any personal success flattered me more. We embraced, and amid protestations
which, owing to a certain dignity about them, acquired a significance I can never forget, we
parted. He informed me that he must first pay a visit to Jena, where he had an appointment
to fight a duel. A week later the news of his death reached Leipzig; he had been mortally wounded
in the duel at Jena.

I felt as if I were living in a dream, out of which I was aroused by the announcement of my
encounter with Tischer. Though he was a first-rate and vigorous fighter, he had been chosen
by our chiefs for my first passage of arms because he was fairly short. In spite of being unable
to feel any great confidence in my hastily acquired and little practised skill in fencing,
I looked forward to this my first duel with a light heart. Although it was against the rules,
I never dreamed of telling the authorities that I was suffering from a slight rash which I
had caught at that time, and which I was informed made wounds so dangerous that if it were
reported it would postpone the meeting, in spite of the fact that I was modest enough to be
prepared for wounds. I was sent for at ten in the morning, and left home smiling to think what
my mother and sisters would say if in a few hours I were brought back in the alarming state
I anticipated. My chief, Herr v. Schonfeld, was a pleasant, quiet sort of man, who lived on
the marsh. When I reached his house, he leant out of the window with his pipe in his mouth,
and greeted me with the words: 'You can go home, my lad, it is all off; Tischer is in hospital.'
When I got upstairs I found several 'leading men' assembled, from whom I learned that Tischer
had got very drunk the night before, and had in consequence laid himself open to the most outrageous
treatment by the inhabitants of a house of ill-fame. He was terribly hurt, and had been taken
by the police in the first instance to the hospital. This inevitably meant rustication, and,
above all, expulsion from the academic association to which he belonged.

I cannot clearly recall the incidents that removed from Leipzig the few remaining fire-eaters
to whom I had pledged myself since that fatal vacation-time; I only know that this aide of
my fame as a student yielded to another. We celebrated the 'freshmen's gathering,' to which
all those who could manage it drove a four- in-hand in a long procession through the town.
After the president of the club had profoundly moved me with his sudden and yet prolonged solemnity,
I conceived the desire to be among the very last to return home from the outing. Accordingly
I stayed away three days and three nights, and spent the time chiefly in gambling, a pastime
which from the first night of our festivity cast its devilish snares around me. Some half-dozen
of the smartest club members chanced to be together at early dawn in the Jolly Peasant, and
forthwith formed the nucleus of a gambling club, which was reinforced during the day by recruits
coming back from the town. Members came to see whether we were still at it, members also went
away, but I with the original six held out for days and nights without faltering.

The desire that first prompted me to take part in the play was the wish to win enough for my
score (two thalers): this I succeeded in doing, and thereupon I was inspired with the hope
of being able to settle all the debts I had made at that time by my winnings at play. Just
as I had hoped to learn composition most quickly by Logier's method, but had found myself hampered
in my object for a long period by unexpected difficulties, so my plan for speedily improving
my financial position was likewise doomed to disappointment. To win was not such an easy matter,
and for some three months I was such a victim to the rage for gambling that no other passion
was able to exercise the slightest influence over my mind.

Neither the Fechtboden (where the students' fights were practised), nor the beer-house, nor
the actual scene of the fights, ever saw my face again. In my lamentable position I racked
my brains all day to devise ways and means of getting the money wherewith to gamble at night.
In vain did my poor mother try everything in her power to induce me not to come home so late
at night, although she had no idea of the real nature of my debauches: after I had left the
house in the afternoon I never returned till dawn the next day, and I reached my room (which
was at some distance from the others) by climbing over the gate, for my mother had refused
to give me a latch-key.

In despair over my ill-luck, my passion for gambling grew into a veritable mania, and I no
longer felt any inclination for those things which at one time had lured me to student life.
I became absolutely indifferent to the opinion of my former companions and avoided them entirely;
I now lost myself in the smaller gambling dens of Leipzig, where only the very scum of the
students congregated. Insensible to any feeling of self-respect, I bore even the contempt of
my sister Rosalie; both she and my mother hardly ever deigning to cast a glance at the young
libertine whom they only saw at rare intervals, looking deadly pale and worn out: my ever-growing
despair made me at last resort to foolhardiness as the only means of forcing hostile fate to
my side. It suddenly struck me that only by dint of big stakes could I make big profits. To
this end I decided to make use of my mother's pension, of which I was trustee of a fairly large
sum. That night I lost everything I had with me except one thaler: the excitement with which
I staked that last coin on a card was an experience hitherto quite strange to my young life.
As I had had nothing to eat, I was obliged repeatedly to leave the gambling table owing to
sickness. With this last thaler I staked my life, for my return to my home was, of course,
out of the question. Already I saw myself in the grey dawn, a prodigal son, fleeing from all
I held dear, through forest and field towards the unknown. My mood of despair had gained so
strong a hold upon me that, when my card won, I immediately placed all the money on a fresh
stake, and repeated this experiment until I had won quite a considerable amount. From that
moment my luck grew continuously. I gained such confidence that I risked the most hazardous
stakes: for suddenly it dawned upon me that this was destined to be my last day with the cards.
My good fortune now became so obvious that the bank thought it wise to close. Not only had
I won back all the money I had lost, but I had won enough to pay off all my debts as well.
My sensations during the whole of this process were of the most sacred nature: I felt as if
God and His angels were standing by my side and were whispering words of warning and of consolation
into my ears.

Once more I climbed over the gate of my home in the early hours of the morning, this time to
sleep peacefully and soundly and to awake very late, strengthened and as though born again.

No sense of shame deterred me from telling my mother, to whom I presented her money, the whole
truth about this decisive night. I voluntarily confessed my sin in having utilised her pension,
sparing no detail. She folded her hands and thanked God for His mercy, and forthwith regarded
me as saved, believing it impossible for me ever to commit such a crime again.

And, truth to tell, gambling had lost all fascination for me from that moment. The world, in
which I had moved like one demented, suddenly seemed stripped of all interest or attraction.
My rage for gambling had already made me quite indifferent to the usual student's vanities,
and when I was freed from this passion also, I suddenly found myself face to face with an entirely
new world.

To this world I belonged henceforth: it was the world of real and serious musical study, to
which I now devoted myself heart and soul.

Even during this wild period of my life, my musical development had not been entirely at a
standstill; on the contrary, it daily became plainer that music was the only direction towards
which my mental tendencies had a marked bent. Only I had got quite out of the habit of musical
study. Even now it seems incredible that I managed to find time in those days to finish quite
a substantial amount of composition. I have but the faintest recollection of an Overture in
C major (6/8 time), and of a Sonata in B flat major arranged as a duet; the latter pleased
my sister Ottilie, who played it with me, so much that I arranged it for orchestra. But another
work of this period, an Overture in B flat major, left an indelible impression on my mind on
account of an incident connected with it. This composition, in fact, was the outcome of my
study of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony in about the same degree as Leubald und Adelaide was the
result of my study of Shakespeare. I had made a special point of bringing out the mystic meaning
in the orchestra, which I divided into three distinctly different and opposite elements. I
wanted to make the characteristic nature of these elements clear to the score reader the moment
he looked at it by a striking display of colour, and only the fact that I could not get any
green ink made this picturesque idea impossible. I employed black ink for the brass instruments
alone, the strings were to have red and the wind green ink. This extraordinary score I gave
for perusal to Heinrich Dorn, who was at that time musical director of the Leipzig theatre.
He was very young, and impressed me as being a very clever musician and a witty man of the
world, whom the Leipzig public made much of.

Nevertheless, I have never been able to understand how he could have granted my request to
produce this overture.

Some time afterwards I was rather inclined to believe with others, who knew how much he enjoyed
a good joke, that he intended to treat himself to a little fun. At the time, however, he vowed
that he thought the work interesting, and maintained that if it were only brought out as a
hitherto unknown work by Beethoven, the public would receive it with respect, though without
understanding.

It was the Christmas of the fateful year 1830; as usual, there would be no performance at the
theatre on Christmas Eve, but instead a concert for the poor had been organised, which received
but scant support. The first item on the programme was called by the exciting title 'New Overture'--nothing
more! I had surreptitiously listened to the rehearsal with some misgiving. I was very much
impressed by the coolness with which Dorn fenced with the apparent confusion which the members
of the orchestra showed with regard to this mysterious composition. The principal theme of
the Allegro was contained in four bars; after every fourth bar, however, a fifth bar had been
inserted, which had nothing to do with the melody, and which was announced by a loud bang on
the kettle-drum on the second beat. As this drum-beat stood out alone, the drummer, who continually
thought he was making a mistake, got confused, and did not give the right sharpness to the
accent as prescribed by the score. Listening from my hidden corner, and frightened at my original
intention, this accidentally different rendering did not displease me. To my genuine annoyance,
however, Dorn called the drummer to the front and insisted on his playing the accents with
the prescribed sharpness. When, after the rehearsal, I told the musical director of my misgivings
about this important fact, I could not get him to promise a milder interpretation of the fatal
drum-beat; he stuck to it that the thing would sound very well as it was. In spite of this
assurance my restlessness grew, and I had not the courage to introduce myself to my friends
in advance as the author of the 'New Overture.'

My sister Ottilie, who had already been forced to survive the secret readings of Leubald und
Adelaide, was the only person willing to come with me to hear my work. It was Christmas Eve,
and there was to be the usual Christmas tree, presents, etc., at my brother-in-law's, Friedrich
Brockhaus, and both of us naturally wanted to be there. My sister, in particular, who lived
there, had a good deal to do with the arrangements, and could only get away for a short while,
and that with great difficulty; our amiable relation accordingly had the carriage ready for
her so that she might get back more quickly. I made use of this opportunity to inaugurate,
as it were, my entree into the musical world in a festive manner. The carriage drew up in front
of the theatre. Ottilie went into my brother-in-law's box, which forced me to try and find
a seat in the pit. I had forgotten to buy a ticket, and was refused admission by the man at
the door. Suddenly the tuning up of the orchestra grew louder and louder, and I thought I should
have to miss the beginning of my work. In my anxiety I revealed myself to the man at the door
as the composer of the 'New Overture,' and in this way succeeded in passing without a ticket.
I pushed my way through to one of the first rows of the pit, and sat down in terrible anxiety.

The Overture began: after the theme of the 'black' brass instruments had made itself heard
with great emphasis, the 'red' Allegro theme started, in which, as I have already mentioned,
every fifth bar was interrupted by the drum-beat from the 'black' world. What kind of effect
the 'green' theme of the wind instruments, which joined in afterwards, produced upon the listeners,
and what they must have thought when 'black,' 'red,' and 'green' themes became intermingled,
has always remained a mystery to me, for the fatal drum-beat, brutally hammered out, entirely
deprived me of my senses, especially as this prolonged and continually recurring effect now
began to rouse, not only the attention, but the merriment of the audience. I heard my neighbours
calculating the return of this effect; knowing the absolute correctness of their calculation,
I suffered ten thousand torments, and became almost unconscious. At last I awoke from my nightmare
when the Overture, to which I had disdained to give what I considered a trite ending, came
to a standstill most unexpectedly.

No phantoms like those in Hoffmann's Tales could have succeeded in producing the extraordinary
state in which I came to my senses on noticing the astonishment of the audience at the end
of the performance. I heard no exclamations of disapproval, no hissing, no remarks, not even
laughter; all I saw was intense astonishment at such a strange occurrence, which impressed
them, as it did me, like a horrible nightmare. The worst moment, however, came when I had to
leave the pit and take my sister home. To get up and pass through the people in the pit was
horrible indeed. Nothing, however, equalled the pain of coming face to face with the man at
the door; the strange look he gave me haunted me ever afterwards, and for a considerable time
I avoided the pit of the Leipzig theatre.

My next step was to find my sister, who had gone through the whole sad experience with infinite
pity; in silence we drove home to be present at a brilliant family festivity, which contrasted
with grim irony with the gloom of my bewilderment.

In spite of it all I tried to believe in myself, and thought I could find comfort in my overture
to the Braut von Messina, which I believed to be a better work than the fatal one I had just
heard. A reinstatement, however, was out of the question, for the directors of the Leipzig
theatre regarded me for a long time as a very doubtful person, in spite of Dorn's friendship.
It is true that I still tried my hand at sketching out compositions to Goethe's Faust, some
of which have been preserved to this day: but soon my wild student's life resumed its sway
and drowned the last remnant of serious musical study in me.

I now began to imagine that because I had become a student I ought to attend the University
lectures. From Traugott Krug, who was well known to me on account of his having suppressed
the student's revolt, I tried to learn the first principles of philosophy; a single lesson
sufficed to make me give this up. Two or three times, however, I attended the lectures on aesthetics
given by one of the younger professors, a man called Weiss. This perseverance was due to the
interest which Weiss immediately aroused in me. When I made his acquaintance at my uncle Adolph's
house, Weiss had just translated the metaphysics of Aristotle, and, if I am not mistaken, dedicated
them in a controversial spirit to Hegel.

On this occasion I had listened to the conversation of these two men on philosophy and philosophers,
which made a tremendous impression on me. I remember that Weiss was an absent-minded man, with
a hasty and abrupt manner of speaking; he had an interesting and pensive expression which impressed
me immensely. I recollect how, on being accused of a want of clearness in his writing and style,
he justified himself by saying that the deep problems of the human mind could not in any case
be solved by the mob. This maxim, which struck me as being very plausible, I at once accepted
as the principle for all my future writing. I remember that my eldest brother Albert, to whom
I once had to write for my mother, grew so disgusted with my letter and style that he said
he thought I must be going mad.

In spite of my hopes that Weiss's lectures would do me much good, I was not capable of continuing
to attend them, as my desires in those days drove me to anything but the study of aesthetics.
Nevertheless, my mother's anxiety at this time on my behalf made me try to take up music again.
As Muller, the teacher under whom I had studied till that time, had not been able to inspire
me with a permanent love of study, it was necessary to discover whether another teacher might
not be better able to induce me to do serious work.

Theodor Weinlich, who was choirmaster and musical director at St. Thomas's Church, held at
that time this important and ancient post which was afterwards occupied by Schicht, and before
him by no less a person than Sebastian Bach. By education he belonged to the old Italian school
of music, and had studied in Bologna under Pater Martini. He had made a name for himself in
this art by his vocal compositions, in which his fine manner of treating the parts was much
praised. He himself told me one day that a Leipzig publisher had offered him a very substantial
fee if he would write for his firm another book of vocal exercises similar to the one which
had proved so profitable to his first publisher. Weinlich told him that he had not got any
exercises of the kind ready at the moment, but offered him instead a new Mass, which the publisher
refused with the words: 'Let him who got the meat gnaw the bones.' The modesty with which Weinlich
told me this little story showed how excellent a man he was. As he was in a very bad and weak
state of health when my mother introduced me to him, he at first refused to take me as a pupil.
But, after having resisted all persuasions, he at last took pity on my musical education, which,
as he soon discovered from a fugue which I had brought with me, was exceedingly faulty. He
accordingly promised to teach me, on condition that I should give up all attempts at composing
for six months, and follow his instructions implicitly. To the first part of my promise I remained
faithful, thanks to the vast vortex of dissipation into which my life as a student had drawn me.

When, however, I had to occupy myself for any length of time with nothing but four-part harmony
exercises in strictly rigorous style, it was not only the student in me, but also the composer
of so many overtures and sonatas, that was thoroughly disgusted. Weinlich, too, had his grievances
against me, and decided to give me up.

During this period I came to the crisis of my life, which led to the catastrophe of that terrible
evening at the gambling den. But an even greater blow than this fearful experience awaited
me when Weinlich decided not to have anything more to do with me. Deeply humiliated and miserable,
I besought the gentle old man, whom I loved dearly, to forgive me, and I promised him from
that moment to work with unflagging energy. One morning at seven o'clock Weinlich sent for
me to begin the rough sketch for a fugue; he devoted the whole morning to me, following my
work bar by bar with the greatest attention, and giving me his valuable advice. At twelve o'clock
he dismissed me with the instruction to perfect and finish the sketch by filling in the remaining
parts at home.

When I brought him the fugue finished, he handed me his own treatment of the same theme for
comparison. This common task of fugue writing established between me and my good-natured teacher
the tenderest of ties, for, from that moment, we both enjoyed the lessons. I was astonished
how quickly the time flew. In eight weeks I had not only gone through a number of the most
intricate fugues, but had also waded through all kinds of difficult evolutions in counterpoint,
when one day, on bringing him an extremely elaborate double fugue, he took my breath away by
telling me that after this there was nothing left for him to teach me.

As I was not aware of any great effort on my part, I often wondered whether I had really become
a well-equipped musician. Weinlich himself did not seem to attach much importance to what he
had taught me: he said, 'Probably you will never write fugues or canons; but what you have
mastered is Independence: you can now stand alone and rely upon having a fine technique at
your fingers' ends if you should want it.'

The principal result of his influence over me was certainly the growing love of clearness and
fluency to which he had trained me. I had already had to write the above-mentioned fugue for
ordinary voices; my feeling for the melodious and vocal had in this way been awakened. In order
to keep me strictly under his calming and friendly influence, he had at the same time given
me a sonata to write which, as a proof of my friendship for him, I had to build up on strictly
harmonic and thematic lines, for which he recommended me a very early and childlike sonata
by Pleyel as a model.

Those who had only recently heard my Overture must, indeed, have wondered how I ever wrote
this sonata, which has been published through the indiscretion of Messrs. Breitkopf and Hartel
(to reward me for my abstemiousness, Weinlich induced them to publish this poor composition).
From that moment he gave me a free hand. To begin with I was allowed to compose a Fantasia
for the pianoforte (in F sharp minor) which I wrote in a quite informal style by treating the
melody in recitative form; this gave me intense satisfaction because it won me praise from
Weinlich.

Soon afterwards I wrote three overtures which all met with his entire approval. In the following
winter (1831-1832) I succeeded in getting the first of them, in D minor, performed at one of
the Gewandhaus concerts.

At that time a very simple and homely tone reigned supreme in this institution. The instrumental
works were not conducted by what we call 'a conductor of the orchestra,' but were simply played
to the audience by the leader of the orchestra. As soon as the singing began, Pohlenz took
his place at the conductor's desk; he belonged to the type of fat and pleasant musical directors,
and was a great favourite with the Leipzig public. He used to come on the platform with a very
important-looking blue baton in his hand.

One of the strangest events which occurred at that time was the yearly production of the Ninth
Symphony of Beethoven; after the first three movements had been played straight through like
a Haydn symphony, as well as the orchestra could manage it, Pohlenz, instead of having to conduct
a vocal quartette, a cantata, or an Italian aria, took his place at the desk to undertake this
highly complicated instrumental work, with its particularly enigmatical and incoherent opening,
one of the most difficult tasks that could possibly be found for a musical conductor. I shall
never forget the impression produced upon me at the first rehearsal by the anxiously and carefully
played 3/4 time, and the way in which the wild shrieks of the trumpet (with which this movement
begins) resulted in the most extraordinary confusion of sound.

He had evidently chosen this tempo in order, in some way, to manage the recitative of the double
basses; but it was utterly hopeless. Pohlenz was in a bath of perspiration, the recitative
did not come off, and I really began to think that Beethoven must have written nonsense; the
double bass player, Temmler, a faithful veteran of the orchestra, prevailed upon Pohlenz at
last, in rather coarse and energetic language, to put down the baton, and in this way the recitative
really proceeded properly. All the same, I felt at this time that I had come to the humble
conclusion, in a way I can hardly explain, that this extraordinary work was still beyond my
comprehension. For a long time I gave up brooding over this composition, and I turned my thoughts
with simple longing towards a clearer and calmer musical form.

My study of counterpoint had taught me to appreciate, above all, Mozart's light and flowing
treatment of the most difficult technical problems, and the last movement of his great Symphony
in C major in particular served me as example for my own work. My D minor Overture, which clearly
showed the influence of Beethoven's Coriolanus Overture, had been favourably received by the
public; my mother began to have faith in me again, and I started at once on a second overture
(in C major), which really ended with a 'Fugato' that did more credit to my new model than
I had ever hoped to accomplish.

This overture, also, was soon afterwards performed at a recital given by the favourite singer,
Mlle. Palazzesi (of the Dresden Italian Opera). Before this I had already introduced it at
a concert given by a private musical society called 'Euterpe', when I had conducted it myself.

I remember the strange impression I received from a remark that my mother made on that occasion;
as a matter of fact this work, which was written in a counterpoint style, without any real
passion or emotion, had produced a strange effect upon her. She gave vent to her astonishment
by warmly praising the Egmont Overture, which was played at the same concert, maintaining that
'this kind of music was after all more fascinating than any stupid fugue.'

At this time I also wrote (as my third opus) an overture to Raupach's drama, Konig Enzio, in
which again Beethoven's influence made itself even more strongly felt. My sister Rosalie succeeded
in getting it performed at the theatre before the play; for the sake of prudence they did not
announce it on the programme the first time. Dorn conducted it, and as the performance went
off all right, and the public showed no dissatisfaction, my overture was played with my full
name on the programme several times during the run of the above-mentioned drama.

After this I tried my hand at a big Symphony (in C major); in this work I showed what I had
learnt by using the influence of my study of Beethoven and Mozart towards the achievement of
a really pleasant and intelligible work, in which the fugue was again present at the end, while
the themes of the various movements were so constructed that they could be played consecutively.

Nevertheless, the passionate and bold element of the Sinfonia Eroica was distinctly discernible,
especially in the first movement. The slow movement, on the contrary, contained reminiscences
of my former musical mysticism. A kind of repeated interrogative exclamation of the minor third
merging into the fifth connected in my mind this work (which I had finished with the utmost
effort at clearness) with my very earliest period of boyish sentimentality.

When, in the following year, I called on Friedrich Rochlitz, at that time the 'Nestor' of the
musical aesthetes in Leipzig, and president of the Gewandhaus, I prevailed upon him to promise
me a performance of my work. As he had been given my score for perusal before seeing me, he
was quite astonished to find that I was a very young man, for the character of my music had
prepared him to see a much older and more experienced musician. Before this performance took
place many things happened which I must first mention, as they were of great importance to my life.

My short and stormy career as a student had drowned in me not only all longing for further
development, but also all interest in intellectual and spiritual pursuits. Although, as I have
pointed out, I had never alienated myself entirely from music, my revived interest in politics
aroused my first real disgust for my senseless student's life, which soon left no deeper traces
on my mind than the remembrance of a terrible nightmare.

The Polish War of Independence against Russian supremacy filled me with growing enthusiasm.
The victories which the Poles obtained for a short period during May, 1831, aroused my enthusiastic
admiration: it seemed to me as though the world had, by some miracle, been created anew. As
a contrast to this, the news of the battle of Ostrolenka made it appear as if the end of the
world had come. To my astonishment, my boon companions scoffed at me when I commented upon
some of these events; the terrible lack of all fellow-feeling and comradeship amongst the students
struck me very forcibly. Any kind of enthusiasm had to be smothered or turned into pedantic
bravado, which showed itself in the form of affectation and indifference. To get drunk with
deliberate cold-bloodedness, without even a glimpse of humour, was reckoned almost as brave
a feat as duelling. Not until much later did I understand the far nobler spirit which animated
the lower classes in Germany in comparison with the sadly degenerate state of the University
students. In those days I felt terribly indignant at the insulting remarks which I brought
upon myself when I deplored the battle of Ostrolenka.

To my honour be it said, that these and similar impressions helped to make me give up my low
associates. During my studies with Weinlich the only little dissipation I allowed myself was
my daily evening visit to Kintschy, the confectioner in the Klostergasse, where I passionately
devoured the latest newspapers. Here I found many men who held the same political views as
myself, and I specially loved to listen to the eager political discussions of some of the old
men who frequented the place. The literary journals, too, began to interest me; I read a great
deal, but was not very particular in my choice. Nevertheless, I now began to appreciate intelligence
and wit, whereas before only the grotesque and the fantastic had had any attraction for me.

My interest in the issue of the Polish war, however, remained paramount. I felt the siege and
capture of Warsaw as a personal calamity. My excitement when the remains of the Polish army
began to pass through Leipzig on their way to France was indescribable, and I shall never forget
the impression produced upon me by the first batch of these unfortunate soldiers on the occasion
of their being quartered at the Green Shield, a public-house in the Meat Market. Much as this
depressed me, I was soon roused to a high pitch of enthusiasm, for in the lounge of the Leipzig
Gewandhaus, where that night Beethoven's C minor Symphony was being played, a group of heroic
figures, the principal leaders of the Polish revolution, excited my admiration. I felt more
particularly attracted by Count Vincenz Tyszkiewitcz, a man of exceptionally powerful physique
and noble appearance, who impressed me by his dignified and aristocratic manner and his quiet
self-reliance--qualities with which I had not met before. When I saw a man of such kingly bearing
in a tight-fitting coat and red velvet cap, I at once realised my foolishness in ever having
worshipped the ludicrously dressed up little heroes of our students' world. I was delighted
to meet this gentleman again at the house of my brother-in-law, Friedrich Brockhaus, where
I saw him frequently.

My brother-in-law had the greatest pity and sympathy for the Polish rebels, and was the president
of a committee whose task it was to look after their interests, and for a long time he made
many personal sacrifices for their cause.

The Brockhaus establishment now became tremendously attractive to me. Around Count Vincenz
Tyszkiewitcz, who remained the lodestar of this small Polish world, gathered a great many other
wealthy exiles, amongst whom I chiefly remember a cavalry captain of the name of Bansemer,
a man of unlimited kindness, but of a rather frivolous nature; he possessed a marvellous team
of four horses which he drove at such breakneck speed as to cause great annoyance to the people
of Leipzig. Another man of importance with whom I remember dining was General Bem, whose artillery
had made such a gallant stand at Ostrolenka.

Many other exiles passed through this hospitable house, some of whom impressed us by their
melancholy, warlike bearing, others by their refined behaviour. Vincenz Tyszkiewitcz, however,
remained my ideal of a true man, and I loved him with a profound adoration. He, too, began
to be interested in me; I used to call upon him nearly every day, and was sometimes present
at a sort of martial feast, from which he often withdrew in order to be able to open his heart
to me about the anxieties which oppressed him. He had, in fact, received absolutely no news
of the whereabouts of his wife and little son since they separated at Volhynien. Besides this,
he was under the shadow of a great sorrow which drew all sympathetic natures to him. To my
sister Louise he had confided the terrible calamity that had once befallen him. He had been
married before, and while staying with his wife in one of his lonely castles, in the dead of
night he had seen a ghostly apparition at the window of his bedroom. Hearing his name called
several times, he had taken up a revolver to protect himself from possible danger, and had
shot his own wife, who had had the eccentric idea of teasing him by pretending to be a ghost.
I had the pleasure of sharing his joy on hearing that his family was safe. His wife joined
him in Leipzig with their beautiful boy, Janusz. I felt sorry not to be able to feel the same
sympathy for this lady as I did for her husband; perhaps one of the reasons of my antipathy
was the obvious and conspicuous way in which she made herself up, by means of which the poor
woman probably tried to hide how much her beauty had suffered through the terrible strain of
the past events. She soon went back to Galicia to try and save what she could of their property,
and also to provide her husband with a pass from the Austrian Government, by means of which
he could follow her.

Then came the third of May. Eighteen of the Poles who were still in Leipzig met together at
a festive dinner in a hotel outside the town; on this day was to be celebrated the first anniversary
of the third of May, so dear to the memory of the Poles. Only the chiefs of the Leipzig Polish
Committee received invitations, and as a special favour I also was asked. I shall never forget
that occasion. The dinner became an orgy; throughout the evening a brass band from the town
played Polish folksongs, and these were sung by the whole company, led by a Lithuanian called
Zan, in a manner now triumphant and now mournful. The beautiful 'Third of May' song more particularly
drew forth a positive uproar of enthusiasm. Tears and shouts of joy grew into a terrible tumult;
the excited men grouped themselves on the grass swearing eternal friendship in the most extravagant
terms, for which the word 'Oiczisna' (Fatherland) provided the principal theme, until at last
night threw her veil over this wild debauch.

That evening afterwards served me as the theme for an orchestral composition (in the form of
an overture) named Polonia; I shall recount the fate of this work later on. My friend Tyszkiewitcz's
passport now arrived, and he made up his mind to go back to Galicia via Brunn, although his
friends considered it was very rash of him to do so. I very much wanted to see something of
the world, and Tyszkiewitcz's offer to take me with him, induced my mother to consent to my
going to Vienna, a place that I had long wished to visit. I took with me the scores of my three
overtures which had already been performed, and also that of my great symphony as yet unproduced,
and had a grand time with my Polish patron, who took me in his luxurious travelling-coach as
far as the capital of Moravia. During a short stop at Dresden the exiles of all classes gave
our beloved Count a friendly farewell dinner in Pirna, at which the champagne flowed freely,
while the health was drunk of the future 'Dictator of Poland.'

At last we separated at Brunn, from which place I continued my journey to Vienna by coach.
During the afternoon and night, which I was obliged to spend in Brunn by myself, I went through
terrible agonies from fear of the cholera which, as I unexpectedly heard, had broken out in
this place. There I was all alone in a strange place, my faithful friend just departed, and
on hearing of the epidemic I felt as if a malicious demon had caught me in his snare in order
to annihilate me. I did not betray my terror to the people in the hotel, but when I was shown
into a very lonely wing of the house and left by myself in this wilderness, I hid myself in
bed with my clothes on, and lived once again through all the horrors of ghost stories as I
had done in my boyhood. The cholera stood before me like a living thing; I could see and touch
it; it lay in my bed and embraced me. My limbs turned to ice, I felt frozen to the very marrow.
Whether I was awake or asleep I never knew; I only remember how astonished I was when, on awakening,
I felt thoroughly well and healthy.

At last I arrived in Vienna, where I escaped the epidemic which had penetrated as far as that
town. It was midsummer of the year 1832. Owing to the introductions I had with me, I found
myself very much at home in this lively city, in which I made a pleasant stay of six weeks.
As my sojourn, however, had no really practical purpose, my mother looked upon the cost of
this holiday, short as it seemed, as an unnecessary extravagance on my part. I visited the
theatres, heard Strauss, made excursions, and altogether had a very good time. I am afraid
I contracted a few debts as well, which I paid off later on when I was conductor of the Dresden
orchestra. I had received very pleasant impressions of musical and theatrical life, and for
a long time Vienna lived in my memory as the acme of that extraordinarily productive spirit
peculiar to its people. I enjoyed most of all the performances at the Theater an der Wien,
at which they were acting a grotesque fairy play called Die Abenteuer Fortunat's zu Wasser
und zu Land, in which a cab was called on the shores of the Black Sea and which made a tremendous
impression on me. About the music I was more doubtful. A young friend of mine took me with
immense pride to a performance of Gluck's Iphigenia in Tauris, which was made doubly attractive
by a first-rate cast including Wild, Staudigl and Binder: I must confess that on the whole
I was bored by this work, but I did not dare say so. My ideas of Gluck had attained gigantic
proportions from my reading of Hoffmann's well-known Phantasies; my anticipation of this work
therefore, which I had not studied yet, had led me to expect a treatment full of overpowering
dramatic force. It is possible that Schroder-Devrient's acting in Fidelio had taught me to
judge everything by her exalted standard.

With the greatest trouble I worked myself up to some kind of enthusiasm for the great scene
between Orestes and the Furies. I hoped against hope that I should be able to admire the remainder
of the opera. I began to understand the Viennese taste, however, when I saw how great a favourite
the opera Zampa became with the public, both at the Karnthner Thor and at the Josephstadt.
Both theatres competed vigorously in the production of this popular work, and although the
public had seemed mad about Iphigenia, nothing equalled their enthusiasm for Zampa. No sooner
had they left the Josephstadt Theatre in the greatest ecstasies about Zampa than they proceeded
to the public-house called the Strausslein. Here they were immediately greeted by the strains
of selections from Zampa which drove the audience to feverish excitement. I shall never forget
the extraordinary playing of Johann Strauss, who put equal enthusiasm into everything he played,
and very often made the audience almost frantic with delight.

At the beginning of a new waltz this demon of the Viennese musical spirit shook like a Pythian
priestess on the tripod, and veritable groans of ecstasy (which, without doubt, were more due
to his music than to the drinks in which the audience had indulged) raised their worship for
the magic violinist to almost bewildering heights of frenzy.

The hot summer air of Vienna was absolutely impregnated with Zampa and Strauss. A very poor
students' rehearsal at the Conservatoire, at which they performed a Mass by Cherubini, seemed
to me like an alms paid begrudgingly to the study of classical music. At the same rehearsal
one of the professors, to whom I was introduced, tried to make the students play my Overture
in D minor (the one already performed in Leipzig). I do not know what his opinion was, nor
that of the students, with regard to this attempt; I only know they soon gave it up.

On the whole I had wandered into doubtful musical bypaths; and I now withdrew from this first
educational visit to a great European art centre in order to start on a cheap, but long and
monotonous return journey to Bohemia, by stage-coach. My next move was a visit to the house
of Count Pachta, of whom I had pleasant recollections from my boyhood days. His estate, Pravonin,
was about eight miles from Prague. Received in the kindest possible way by the old gentleman
and his beautiful daughters, I enjoyed his delightful hospitality until late into the autumn.
A youth of nineteen, as I then was, with a fast- growing beard (for which my sisters had already
prepared the young ladies by letter), the continual and close intimacy with such kind and pretty
girls could hardly fail to make a strong impression on my imagination. Jenny, the elder of
the two, was slim, with black hair, blue eyes, and wonderfully noble features; the younger
one, Auguste, was a little smaller, and stouter, with a magnificent complexion, fair hair,
and brown eyes. The natural and sisterly manner with which both girls treated me and conversed
with me did not blind me to the fact that I was expected to fall in love with one or the other
of them. It amused them to see how embarrassed I got in my efforts to choose between them,
and consequently they teased me tremendously.

Unfortunately, I did not act judiciously with regard to the daughters of my host: in spite
of their homely education, they belonged to a very aristocratic house, and consequently hesitated
between the hope of marrying men of eminent position in their own sphere, and the necessity
of choosing husbands amongst the higher middle classes, who could afford to keep them in comfort.
The shockingly poor, almost mediaeval, education of the Austrian so- called cavalier, made
me rather despise the latter; the girls, too, had suffered from the same lack of proper training.
I soon noticed with disgust how little they knew about things artistic, and how much value
they attached to superficial things. However much I might try to interest them in those higher
pursuits which had become necessary to me, they were incapable of appreciating them. I advocated
a complete change from the bad library novels, which represented their only reading, from the
Italian operatic arias, sung by Auguste, and, last but not least, from the horsy, insipid cavaliers,
who paid their court to both Jenny and her sister in the most coarse and offensive manner.
My zeal in this latter respect soon gave rise to great unpleasantness. I became hard and insulting,
harangued them about the French Revolution, and begged them with fatherly admonitions 'for
the love of heaven' to be content with well-educated middle-class men, and give up those impertinent
suitors who could only harm their reputation. The indignation provoked by my friendly advice
I often had to ward off with the harshest retorts. I never apologised, but tried by dint of
real or feigned jealousy to get our friendship back on the old footing. In this way, undecided,
half in love and half angry, one cold November day I said good- bye to these pretty children.
I soon met the whole family again at Prague, where I made a long sojourn, without, however,
staying at the Count's residence.

My stay at Prague was to be of great musical importance to me. I knew the director of the Conservatoire,
Dionys Weber, who promised to bring my symphony before the public; I also spent much of my
time with an actor called Moritz, to whom, as an old friend of our family, I had been recommended,
and there I made the acquaintance of the young musician Kittl.

Moritz, who noticed that not a day passed but what I went to the much-feared chief of the Conservatoire
upon some pressing musical business, once despatched me with an improvised parody on Schiller's
Burgschaft:--

     Zu Dionys dem Direktor schlich
     Wagner, die Partitur im Gewande;
     Ihn schlugen die Schuler im Bande:
     'Was wolltest du mit den Noten sprich?'
     Entgegnet ihm finster der Wutherich:
     'Die Stadt vom schlechten Geschmacke befreien!
     Das sollst du in den Rezensionen bereuen.'

     [Footnote: To Dionys, the Director,
     crept Wagner, the score in his pocket;
     The students arrested him forthwith:
     'What do'st thou with that music, say?'
     Thus asked him the angry tyrant:
     'To free the town from taste too vile!
     For this the critics will make thee suffer.' ]

Truly I had to deal with a kind of 'Dionysius the Tyrant.' A man who did not acknowledge Beethoven's
genius beyond his Second Symphony, a man who looked upon the Eroica as the acme of bad taste
on the master's part; who praised Mozart alone, and next to him tolerated only Lindpaintner:
such a man was not easy to approach, and I had to learn the art of making use of tyrants for
one's own purposes. I dissimulated; I pretended to be struck by the novelty of his ideas, never
contradicted him, and, to point out the similarity of our standpoints, I referred him to the
end fugue in my Overture and in my Symphony (both in C major), which I had only succeeded in
making what they were through having studied Mozart. My reward soon followed: Dionys set to
work to study my orchestral creations with almost youthful energy.

The students of the Conservatoire were compelled to practise with the greatest exactitude my
new symphony under his dry and terribly noisy baton. In the presence of several of my friends,
amongst whom was also the dear old Count Pachta in his capacity of President of the Conservatoire
Committee, we actually held a first performance of the greatest work that I had written up
to that date.

During these musical successes I went on with my love-making in the attractive house of Count
Pachta, under the most curious circumstances. A confectioner of the name of Hascha was my rival.
He was a tall, lanky young man who, like most Bohemians, had taken up music as a hobby; he
played the accompaniments to Auguste's songs, and naturally fell in love with her. Like myself,
he hated the frequent visits of the cavaliers, which seemed to be quite the custom in this
city; but while my displeasure expressed itself in humour, his showed itself in gloomy melancholy.
This mood made him behave boorishly in public: for instance, one evening, when the chandelier
was to be lighted for the reception of one of these gentlemen, he ran his head purposely against
this ornament and broke it. The festive illumination was thus rendered impossible; the Countess
was furious, and Hascha had to leave the house never to return.

I well remember that the first time I was conscious of any feelings of love, these manifested
themselves as pangs of jealousy, which had, however, nothing to do with real love: this happened
one evening when I called at the house. The Countess kept me by her side in an ante-room, while
the girls, beautifully dressed and gay, flirted in the reception-room with those hateful young
noblemen. All I had ever read in Hoffmann's Tales of certain demoniacal intrigues, which until
that moment had been obscure to me, now became really tangible facts, and I left Prague with
an obviously unjust and exaggerated opinion of those things and those people, through whom
I had suddenly been dragged into an unknown world of elementary passions.

On the other hand I had gained by my stay at Pravonin: I had written poetry as well as musical
compositions. My musical work was a setting of Glockentone, a poem by the friend of my youth,
Theodor Apel. I had already written an aria for soprano which had been performed the winter
before at one of the theatre concerts. But my new work was decidedly the first vocal piece
I had written with real inspiration; generally speaking, I suppose it owed its' characteristics
to the influence of Beethoven's Liederkreis: all the same, the impression that it has left
on my mind is that it was absolutely part of myself, and pervaded by a delicate sentimentality
which was brought into relief by the dreaminess of the accompaniment. My poetical efforts lay
in the direction of a sketch of a tragi-operatic subject, which I finished in its entirety
in Prague under the title of Die Hochzeit ('The Wedding'). I wrote it without anybody's knowledge,
and this was no easy matter, seeing that I could not write in my chilly little hotel-room,
and had therefore to go to the house of Moritz, where I generally spent my mornings. I remember
how I used quickly to hide my manuscript behind the sofa as soon as I heard my host's footsteps.

An extraordinary episode was connected with the plot of this work.

Already years ago I had come across a tragic story, whilst perusing Busching's book on chivalry,
the like of which I have never since read. A lady of noble birth had been assaulted one night
by a man who secretly cherished a passionate love for her, and in the struggle to defend her
honour superhuman strength was given her to fling him into the courtyard below. The mystery
of his death remained unexplained until the day of his solemn obsequies, when the lady herself,
who attended them and was kneeling in solemn prayer, suddenly fell forward and expired. The
mysterious strength of this profound and passionate story made an indelible impression upon
my mind. Fascinated, moreover, by the peculiar treatment of similar phenomena in Hoffmann's
Tales, I sketched a novel in which musical mysticism, which I still loved so deeply, played
an important part. The action was supposed to take place on the estate of a rich patron of
the fine arts: a young couple was going to be married, and had invited the friend of the bride-groom,
an interesting but melancholy and mysterious young man, to their wedding. Intimately connected
with the whole affair was a strange old organist. The mystic relations which gradually developed
between the old musician, the melancholy young man and the bride, were to grow out of the unravelment
of certain intricate events, in a somewhat similar manner to that of the mediaeval story above
related. Here was the same idea: the young man mysteriously killed, the equally strange sudden
death of his friend's bride, and the old organist found dead on his bench after the playing
of an impressive requiem, the last chord of which was inordinately prolonged as if it never
would end.

I never finished this novel: but as I wanted to write the libretto for an opera, I took up
the theme again in its original shape, and built on this (as far as the principal features
went) the following dramatic plot:--

Two great houses had lived in enmity, and had at last decided to end the family feud. The aged
head of one of these houses invited the son of his former enemy to the wedding of his daughter
with one of his faithful partisans. The wedding feast is thus used as an opportunity for reconciling
the two families. Whilst the guests are full of the suspicion and fear of treachery, their
young leader falls violently in love with the bride of his newly found ally. His tragic glance
deeply affects her; the festive escort accompanies her to the bridal chamber, where she is
to await her beloved; leaning against her tower-window she sees the same passionate eyes fixed
on her, and realises that she is face to face with a tragedy.

When he penetrates into her chamber, and embraces her with frantic passion, she pushes him
backwards towards the balcony, and throws him over the parapet into the abyss, from whence
his mutilated remains are dragged by his companions. They at once arm themselves against the
presumed treachery, and call for vengeance; tumult and confusion fill the courtyard: the interrupted
wedding feast threatens to end in a night of slaughter. The venerable head of the house at
last succeeds in averting the catastrophe. Messengers are sent to bear the tidings of the mysterious
calamity to the relatives of the victim: the corpse itself shall be the medium of reconciliation,
for, in the presence of the different generations of the suspected family, Providence itself
shall decide which of its members has been guilty of treason. During the preparations for the
obsequies the bride shows signs of approaching madness; she flies from her bridegroom, refuses
to be united to him, and locks herself up in her tower-chamber. Only when, at night, the gloomy
though gorgeous ceremony commences, does she appear at the head of her women to be present
at the burial service, the gruesome solemnity of which is interrupted by the news of the approach
of hostile forces and then by the armed attack of the kinsmen of the murdered man. When the
avengers of the presumed treachery penetrate into the chapel and call upon the murderer to
declare himself, the horrified lord of the manor points towards his daughter who, turning away
from her bridegroom, falls lifeless by the coffin of her victim. This nocturnal drama, through
which ran reminiscences of Leubald und Adelaide (the work of my far-off boyhood), I wrote in
the darkest vein, but in a more polished and more noble style, disdaining all light-effects,
and especially all operatic embellishments. Tender passages occurred here and there all the
same, and Weinlich, to whom I had already shown the beginning of my work on my return to Leipzig,
praised me for the clearness and good vocal quality of the introduction I had composed to the
first act; this was an Adagio for a vocal septette, in which I had tried to express the reconciliation
of the hostile families, together with the emotions of the wedded couple and the sinister passion
of the secret lover. My principal object was, all the same, to win my sister Rosalie's approval.
My poem, however, did not find favour in her eyes: she missed all that which I had purposely
avoided, insisted on the ornamentation and development of the simple situation, and desired
more brightness generally. I made up my mind in an instant: I took the manuscript, and without
a suggestion of ill-temper, destroyed it there and then. This action had nothing whatever to
do with wounded vanity. It was prompted merely by my desire honestly to prove to my sister
how little I thought of my own work and how much I cared for her opinion. She was held in great
and loving esteem by my mother and by the rest of our family, for she was their principal breadwinner:
the important salary she earned as an actress constituted nearly the whole income out of which
my mother had to defray the household expenses. For the sake of her profession she enjoyed
many advantages at home. Her part of the house had been specially arranged so that she should
have all the necessary comfort and peace for her studies; on marketing days, when the others
had to put up with the simplest fare, she had to have the same dainty food as usual. But more
than any of these things did her charming gravity and her refined way of speaking place her
above the younger children. She was thoughtful and gentle and never joined us in our rather
loud conversation. Of course, I had been the one member of the family who had caused the greatest
anxieties both to my mother and to my motherly sister, and during my life as a student the
strained relations between us had made a terrible impression on me. When therefore they tried
to believe in me again, and once more showed some interest in my work, I was full of gratitude
and happiness. The thought of getting this sister to look kindly upon my aspirations, and even
to expect great things of me, had become a special stimulus to my ambition. Under these circumstances
a tender and almost sentimental relationship grew up between Rosalie and myself, which in its
purity and sincerity could vie with the noblest form of friendship between man and woman. This
was principally due to her exceptional individuality. She had not any real talent, at least
not for acting, which had often been considered stagey and unnatural. Nevertheless she was
much appreciated owing to her charming appearance as well as to her pure and dignified womanliness,
and I remember many tokens of esteem which she received in those days. All the same, none of
these advances ever seemed to lead to the prospect of a marriage, and year by year went by
without bringing her hopes of a suitable match--a fact which to me appeared quite unaccountable.
From time to time I thought I noticed that Rosalie suffered from this state of affairs. I remember
one evening when, believing herself to be alone, I heard her sobbing and moaning; I stole away
unnoticed, but her grief made such an impression upon me that from that moment I vowed to bring
some joy into her life, principally by making a name for myself. Not without reason had our
stepfather Geyer given my gentle sister the nickname of 'Geistchen' (little spirit), for if
her talent as an actress was not great, her imagination and her love of art and of all high
and noble things were perhaps, on that account alone, all the greater. From her lips I had
first heard expressions of admiration and delight concerning those subjects which became dear
to me later on, and she moved amongst a circle of serious and interesting people who loved
the higher things of life without this attitude ever degenerating into affectation.

On my return from my long journey I was introduced to Heinrich Laube, whom my sister had added
to her list of intimate friends. It was at the time when the after-effects of the July revolution
were beginning to make themselves felt amongst the younger men of intellect in Germany, and
of these Laube was one of the most conspicuous. As a young man he came from Silesia to Leipzig,
his principal object being to try and form connections in this publishing centre which might
be of use to him in Paris, whither he was going, and from which place Borne also made a sensation
amongst us by his letters. On this occasion Laube was present at a representation of a play
by Ludwig Robert, Die Macht der Verhallnisse ('The Power of Circumstances'). This induced him
to write a criticism for the Leipzig Tageblatt, which made such a sensation through its terse
and lively style that he was at once offered, in addition to other literary work, the post
of editor of Die elegante Welt. In our house he was looked upon as a genius; his curt and often
biting manner of speaking, which seemed to exclude all attempt at poetic expression, made him
appear both original and daring: his sense of justice, his sincerity and fearless bluntness
made one respect his character, hardened as it had been in youth by great adversity. On me
he had a very inspiring effect, and I was very much astonished to find that he thought so much
of me as to write a flattering notice about my talent in his paper after hearing the first
performance of my symphony.

This performance took place in the beginning of the year 1833 at the Leipzig Schneider-Herberge.
It was, by the bye, in this dignified old hall that the society 'Euterpe' held its concerts!
The place was dirty, narrow, and poorly lighted, and it was here that my work was introduced
to the Leipzig public for the first time, and by means of an orchestra that interpreted it
simply disgracefully. I can only think of that evening as a gruesome nightmare; and my astonishment
was therefore all the greater at seeing the important notice which Laube wrote about the performance.
Full of hope, I therefore looked forward to a performance of the same work at the Gewandhaus
concert, which followed soon after, and which came off brilliantly in every way. It was well
received and well spoken of in all the papers; of real malice there was not a trace--on the
contrary, several notices wore encouraging, and Laube, who had quickly become celebrated, confided
to me that he was going to offer me a libretto for an opera, which he had first written for
Meyerbeer. This staggered me somewhat, for I was not in the least prepared to pose as a poet,
and my only idea was to write a real plot for an opera. As to the precise manner, however,
in which such a book had to be written, I already had a very definite and instinctive notion,
and I was strengthened in the certainty of my own feelings in the matter when Laube now explained
the nature of his plot to me. He told me that he wanted to arrange nothing less than Kosziusko
into a libretto for grand opera! Once again I had qualms, for I felt at once that Laube had
a mistaken idea about the character of a dramatic subject. When I inquired into the real action
of the play, Laube was astonished that I should expect more than the story of the Polish hero,
whose life was crowded with incident; in any case, he thought there was quite sufficient action
in it to describe the unhappy fate of a whole nation. Of course the usual heroine was not missing;
she was a Polish girl who had a love affair with a Russian; and in this way some sentimental
situations were also to be found in the plot. Without a moment's delay I assured my sister
Rosalie that I would not set this story to music: she agreed with me, and begged me only to
postpone my answer to Laube. My journey to Wurzburg was of great help to me in this respect,
for it was easier to write my decision to Laube than to announce it to him personally. He accepted
the slight rebuff with good grace, but he never forgave me, either then or afterwards, for
writing my own words!

When he heard what subject I had preferred to his brilliant political poem, he made no effort
to conceal his contempt for my choice. I had borrowed the plot from a dramatic fairy tale by
Gozzi, La Donna Serpente, and called it Die Feen ('The Fairies'). The names of my heroes I
chose from different Ossian and similar poems: my prince was called Arindal; he was loved by
a fairy called Ada, who held him under her spell and kept him in fairyland, away from his realm,
until his faithful friends at last found him and induced him to return, for his country was
going to rack and ruin, and even its capital had fallen into the enemy's hands. The loving
fairy herself sends the prince back to his country; for the oracle has decreed that she shall
lay upon her lover the severest of tasks. Only by performing this task triumphantly can he
make it possible for her to leave the immortal world of fairies in order to share the fate
of her earthly lover, as his wife. In a moment of deepest despair about the state of his country,
the fairy queen appears to him and purposely destroys his faith in her by deeds of the most
cruel and inexplicable nature. Driven mad by a thousand fears, Arindal begins to imagine that
all the time he has been dealing with a wicked sorceress, and tries to escape the fatal spell
by pronouncing a curse upon Ada. Wild with sorrow, the unhappy fairy sinks down, and reveals
their mutual fate to the lover, now lost to her for ever, and tells him that, as a punishment
for having disobeyed the decree of Fate, she is doomed to be turned into stone (in Gozzi's
version she becomes a serpent). Immediately afterwards it appears that all the catastrophes
which the fairy had prophesied were but deceptions: victory over the enemy as well as the growing
prosperity and welfare of the kingdom now follow in quick succession: Ada is taken away by
the Fates, and Arindal, a raving madman, remains behind alone. The terrible sufferings of his
madness do not, however, satisfy the Fates: to bring about his utter ruin they appear before
the repentant man and invite him to follow them to the nether world, on the pretext of enabling
him to free Ada from the spell. Through the treacherous promises of the wicked fairies Arindal's
madness grows into sublime exaltation; and one of his household magicians, a faithful friend,
having in the meantime equipped him with magic weapons and charms, he now follows the traitresses.
The latter cannot get over their astonishment when they see how Arindal overcomes one after
the other of the monsters of the infernal regions: only when they arrive at the vault in which
they show him the stone in human shape do they recover their hope of vanquishing the valiant
prince, for, unless he can break the charm which binds Ada, he must share her fate and be doomed
to remain a stone for ever. Arindal, who until then has been using the dagger and the shield
given him by the friendly magician, now makes use of an instrument--a lyre--which he has brought
with him, and the meaning of which he had not yet understood. To the sounds of this instrument
he now expresses his plaintive moans, his remorse, and his overpowering longing for his enchanted
queen. The stone is moved by the magic of his love: the beloved one is released. Fairyland
with all its marvels opens its portals, and the mortal learns that, owing to his former inconstancy,
Ada has lost the right to become his wife on earth, but that her beloved, through his great
and magic power, has earned the right to live for ever by her side in fairyland.

Although I had written Die Hochzeit in the darkest vein, without operatic embellishments, I
painted this subject with the utmost colour and variety. In contrast to the lovers out of fairyland
I depicted a more ordinary couple, and I even introduced a third pair that belonged to the
coarser and more comical servant world. I purposely went to no pains in the matter of the poetic
diction and the verse. My idea was not to encourage my former hopes of making a name as a poet;
I was now really a 'musician' and a 'composer,' and wished to write a decent opera libretto
simply because I was sure that nobody else could write one for me; the reason being that such
a book is something quite unique and cannot be written either by a poet or by a mere man of
letters. With the intention of setting this libretto to music, I left Leipzig in January, 1833,
to stay in Wurzburg with my eldest brother Albert, who at the time held an appointment at the
theatre. It now seemed necessary for me to begin to apply my musical knowledge to a practical
purpose, and to this end my brother had promised to help me in getting some kind of post at
the small Wurzburg theatre. I travelled by post to Bamberg via Hof, and in Bamberg I stayed
a few days in the company of a young man called Schunke, who from a player on the horn had
become an actor. With the greatest interest I learned the story of Caspar Hauser, who at that
time was very well known, and who (if I am not mistaken) was pointed out to me. In addition
to this, I admired the peculiar costumes of the market-women, thought with much interest of
Hoffmann's stay at this place, and of how it had led to the writing of his Tales, and resumed
my journey (to Wurzburg) with a man called Hauderer, and suffered miserably from the cold all
the way.

My brother Albert, who was almost a new acquaintance to me, did his best to make me feel at
home in his not over luxurious establishment. He was pleased to find me less mad than he had
expected me to be from a certain letter with which I had succeeded in frightening him some
time previously, and he really managed to procure me an exceptional occupation as choir-master
at the theatre, for which I received the monthly fee of ten guilders. The remainder of the
winter was devoted to the serious study of the duties required of a musical director: in a
very short time I had to tackle two new grand operas, namely, Marschner's Vampir and Meyerbeer's
Robert der Teufel, in both of which the chorus played a considerable part. At first I felt
absolutely like a beginner, and had to start on Camilla von Paer, the score of which was utterly
unknown to me. I still remember that I felt I was doing a thing which I had no right to undertake:
I felt quite an amateur at the work. Soon, however, Marschner's score interested me sufficiently
to make the labour seem worth my while. The score of Robert was a great disappointment to me:
from the newspapers I had expected plenty of originality and novelty; I could find no trace
of either in this transparent work, and an opera with a finale like that of the second act
could not be named in the same breath with any of my favourite works. The only thing that impressed
me was the unearthly keyed trumpet which, in the last act, represented the voice of the mother's
ghost.

It was remarkable to observe the aesthetic demoralisation into which I now fell through having
daily to deal with such a work. I gradually lost my dislike for this shallow and exceedingly
uninteresting composition (a dislike I shared with many German musicians) in the growing interest
which I was compelled to take in its interpretation; and thus it happened that the insipidness
and affectation of the commonplace melodies ceased to concern me save from the standpoint of
their capability of eliciting applause or the reverse. As, moreover, my future career as musical
conductor was at stake, my brother, who was very anxious on my behalf, looked favourably on
this lack of classical obstinacy on my part, and thus the ground was gradually prepared for
that decline in my classical taste which was destined to last some considerable time.

All the same, this did not occur before I had given some proof of my great inexperience in
the lighter style of writing. My brother wanted to introduce a 'Cavatine' from the Piraten,
by Bellini, into the same composer's opera, Straniera; the score was not to be had, and he
entrusted me with the instrumentation of this work. From the piano score alone I could not
possibly detect the heavy and noisy instrumentation of the ritornelles and intermezzi which,
musically, were so very thin; the composer of a great C major Symphony with an end fugue could
only help himself out of the difficulty by the use of a few flutes and clarinets playing in
thirds. At the rehearsal the 'Cavatine' sounded so frightfully thin and shallow that my brother
made me serious reproaches about the waste of copying expenses. But I had my revenge: to the
tenor aria of 'Aubry' in Marschner's Vampir I added an Allegro, for which I also wrote the words.

My work succeeded splendidly, and earned the praise of both the public and my brother. In a
similar German style I wrote the music to my Feen in the course of the year 1833. My brother
and his wife left Wurzburg after Easter in order to avail themselves of several invitations
at friends' houses; I stayed behind with the children--three little girls of tender years--which
placed me in the extraordinary position of a responsible guardian, a post for which I was not
in the least suited at that time of my life. My time was divided between my work and pleasure,
and in consequence I neglected my charges. Amongst the friends I made there, Alexander Muller
had much influence over me; he was a good musician and pianist, and I used to listen for hours
to his improvisations on given themes--an accomplishment in which he so greatly excelled, that
I could not fail to be impressed. With him and some other friends, amongst whom was also Valentin
Hamm, I often made excursions in the neighbourhood, on which occasions the Bavarian beer and
the Frankish wine were wont to fly. Valentin Hamm was a grotesque individual, who entertained
us often with his excellent violin playing; he had an enormous stretch on the piano, for he
could reach an interval of a twelfth. Der Letzte Hieb, a public beer-garden situated on a pleasant
height, was a daily witness of my fits of wild and often enthusiastic boisterousness; never
once during those mild summer nights did I return to my charges without having waxed enthusiastic
over art and the world in general. I also remember a wicked trick which has always remained
a blot in my memory. Amongst my friends was a fair and very enthusiastic Swabian called Frohlich,
with whom I had exchanged my score of the C minor Symphony for his, which he had copied out
with his own hand. This very gentle, but rather irritable young man had taken such a violent
dislike to one Andre, whose malicious face I also detested, that he declared that this person
spoilt his evenings for him, merely by being in the same room with him. The unfortunate object
of his hatred tried all the same to meet us whenever he could: friction ensued, but Andre would
insist upon aggravating us. One evening Frohlich lost patience. After some insulting retort,
he tried to chase him from our table by striking him with a stick: the result was a fight in
which Frolich's friends felt they must take part, though they all seemed to do so with some
reluctance. A mad longing to join the fray also took possession of me. With the others I helped
in knocking our poor victim about, and I even heard the sound of one terrible blow which I
struck Andre on the head, whilst he fixed his eyes on me in bewilderment.

I relate this incident to atone for a sin which has weighed very heavily on my conscience ever
since. I can compare this sad experience only with one out of my earliest boyhood days, namely
the drowning of some puppies in a shallow pool behind my uncle's house in Eisleben. Even to
this day I cannot think of the slow death of these poor little creatures without horror. I
have never quite forgotten some of my thoughtless and reckless actions; for the sorrows of
others, and in particular those of animals, have always affected me deeply to the extent of
filling me with a disgust of life.

My first love affair stands out in strong contrast against these recollections. It was only
natural that one of the young chorus ladies with whom I had to practise daily should know how
to attract my attentions. Therese Ringelmann, the daughter of a grave-digger, thanks to her
beautiful soprano voice, led me to believe that I could make a great singer of her. After I
told her of this ambitious scheme, she paid much attention to her appearance, and dressed elegantly
for the rehearsals, and a row of white pearls which she wound through her hair specially fascinated
me. During the summer holidays I gave Therese regular lessons in singing, according to a method
which has always remained a mystery to me ever since. I also called on her very often at her
house, where, fortunately, I never met her unpleasant father, but always her mother and her
sisters. We also met in the public gardens, but false vanity always kept me from telling my
friends of our relations. I do not know whether the fault lay with her lowly birth, her lack
of education, or my own doubt about the sincerity of my affections; but in any case when, in
addition to the fact that I had my reasons for being jealous, they also tried to urge me to
a formal engagement, this love affair came quietly to an end.

An infinitely more genuine affair was my love for Friederike Galvani, the daughter of a mechanic,
who was undoubtedly of Italian origin. She was very musical, and had a lovely voice; my brother
had patronised her and helped her to a debut at his theatre, which test she stood brilliantly.
She was rather small, but had large dark eyes and a sweet disposition. The first oboist of
the orchestra, a good fellow as well as a clever musician, was thoroughly devoted to her. He
was looked upon as her fiance, but, owing to some incident in his past, he was not allowed
to visit at her parents' house, and the marriage was not to take place for a long time yet.
When the autumn of my year in Wurzburg drew near, I received an invitation from friends to
be present at a country wedding at a little distance from Wurzburg; the oboist and his fiancee
had also been invited. It was a jolly, though primitive affair; we drank and danced, and I
even tried my hand at violin playing, but I must have forgotten it badly, for even with the
second violin I could not manage to satisfy the other musicians. But my success with Friederike
was all the greater; we danced like mad through the many couples of peasants until at one moment
we got so excited that, losing all self-control, we embraced each other while her real lover
was playing the dance music. For the first time in my life I began to feel a flattering sensation
of self-respect when Friederike's fiance, on seeing how we two flirted, accepted the situation
with good grace, if not without some sadness. I had never had the chance of thinking that I
could make a favourable impression on any young girl. I never imagined myself good-looking,
neither had I ever thought it possible that I could attract the attention of pretty girls.

On the other hand, I had gradually acquired a certain self- reliance in mixing with men of
my own age. Owing to the exceptional vivacity and innate susceptibility of my nature-- qualities
which were brought home to me in my relations with members of my circle--I gradually became
conscious of a certain power of transporting or bewildering my more indolent companions.

From my poor oboist's silent self-control on becoming aware of the ardent advances of his betrothed
towards me, I acquired, as I have said, the first suggestion of the fact that I might count
for something, not only among men, but also among women. The Frankish wine helped to bring
about a state of ever greater confusion, and under the cover of its influence I at length declared
myself, quite openly, to be Friederike's lover. Ever so far into the night, in fact, when day
was already breaking, we set off home together to Wurzburg in an open wagon. This was the crowning
triumph of my delightful adventure; for while all the others, including, in the end, the jealous
oboist, slept off their debauch in the face of the dawning day, I, with my cheek against Friederike's,
and listening to the warbling of the larks, watched the coming of the rising sun.

On the following day we had scarcely any idea of what had happened. A certain sense of shame,
which was not unbecoming, held us aloof from one another: and yet I easily won access to Friederike's
family, and from that time forward was daily a welcome guest, when for some hours I would linger
in unconcealed intimate intercourse with the same domestic circle from which the unhappy betrothed
remained excluded. No word was ever mentioned of this last connection; never once did it even
dawn upon Friederike to effect any change in the state of affairs, and it seemed to strike
no one that I ought, so to speak, to take the fiance's place. The confiding manner in which
I was received by all, and especially by the girl herself, was exactly similar to one of Nature's
great processes, as, for instance, when spring steps in and winter passes silently away. Not
one of them ever considered the material consequences of the change, and this is precisely
the most charming and flattering feature of this first youthful love affair, which was never
to degenerate into an attitude which might give rise to suspicion or concern. These relations
ended only with my departure from Wurzburg, which was marked by the most touching and most
tearful leavetaking.

For some time, although I kept up no correspondence, the memory of this episode remained firmly
imprinted on my mind. Two years later, while making a rapid journey through the old district,
I once more visited Friederike: the poor child approached me utterly shamefaced. Her oboist
was still her lover, and though his position rendered marriage impossible, the unfortunate
young woman had become a mother. I have heard nothing more of her since.

Amid all this traffic of love I worked hard at my opera, and, thanks to the loving sympathy
of my sister Rosalie, I was able to find the necessary good spirits for the task. When at the
commencement of the summer my earnings as a conductor came to an end, this same sister again
made it her business loyally to provide me with ample pocket-money, so that I might devote
myself solely to the completion of my work, without troubling about anything or being a burden
to any one. At a much later date I came across a letter of mine written to Rosalie in those
days, which were full of a tender, almost adoring love for that noble creature.

When the winter was at hand my brother returned, and the theatre reopened. Truth to tell, I
did not again become connected with it, but acquired a position, which was even more prominent,
in the concerts of the Musical Society in which I produced my great overture in C major, my
symphony, and eventually portions of my new opera as well. An amateur with a splendid voice,
Mademoiselle Friedel, sang the great aria from Ada. In addition to this, a trio was given which,
in one of its passages, had such a moving effect upon my brother, who took part in it, that,
to his astonishment, as he himself admitted, he completely lost his cue on account of it.

By Christmas my work had come to an end, my score was written out complete with the most laudable
neatness, and now I was to return to Leipzig for the New Year, in order to get my opera accepted
by the theatre there. On the way home I visited Nuremberg, where I stayed a week with my sister
Clara and with her husband, who were engaged at the theatre there. I well remember how happy
and comfortable I felt during this pleasant visit to the very same relatives who a few years
previously, when I had stayed with them at Magdeburg, had been upset by my resolve to adopt
music as a calling. Now I had become a real musician, had written a grand opera, and had already
brought out many things without coming to grief. The sense of all this was a great joy to me,
while it was no less flattering to my relatives, who could not fail to see that the supposed
misfortune had in the end proved to my advantage. I was in a jolly mood and quite unrestrained--a
state of mind which was very largely the result not only of my brother- in-law's cheerful and
sociable household, but also of the pleasant tavern life of the place. In a much more confident
and elated spirit I returned to Leipzig, where I was able to lay the three huge volumes of
my score before my highly delighted mother and sister.

Just then my family was the richer for the return of my brother Julius from his long wanderings.
He had worked a good while in Paris as a goldsmith, and had now set up for himself in that
capacity in Leipzig. He too, like the rest, was eager to hear something out of my opera, which,
to be sure, was not so easy, as I entirely lacked the gift of playing anything of the sort
in an easy and intelligible way. Only when I was able to work myself into a state of absolute
ecstasy was it possible for me to render something with any effect. Rosalie knew that I meant
it to draw a sort of declaration of love from her; but I have never felt certain whether the
embrace and the sisterly kiss which were awarded me after I had sung my great aria from Ada,
were bestowed on me from real emotion or rather out of affectionate regard. On the other hand,
the zeal with which she urged my opera on the director of the theatre, Ringelhardt, the conductor
and the manager was unmistakable, and she did it so effectually that she obtained their consent
for its performance, and that very speedily. I was particularly interested to learn that the
management immediately showed themselves eager to try to settle the matter of the costumes
for my drama: but I was astonished to hear that the choice was in favour of oriental attire,
whereas I had intended, by the names I had selected, to suggest a northern character for the
setting. But it was precisely these names which they found unsuitable, as fairy personages
are not seen in the North, but only in the East; while apart from this, the original by Gozzi,
which formed the basis of the work, undoubtedly bore an oriental character. It was with the
utmost indignation that I opposed the insufferable turban and caftan style of dress, and vehemently
advocated the knightly garb worn in the early years of the Middle Ages. I then had to come
to a thorough understanding with the conductor, Stegmayer, on the subject of my score. He was
a remarkable, short, fat man, with fair curly hair, and an exceptionally jovial disposition;
he was, however, very hard to bring to a point. When over our wine we always arrived at an
understanding very quickly, but as soon as we sat at the piano, I had to listen to the most
extraordinary objections concerning the trend of which I was for some time extremely puzzled.
As the matter was much delayed by this vacillation, I put myself into closer communication
with the stage manager of the opera, Hauser, who at that time was much appreciated as a singer
and patron of art by the people of Leipzig.

With this man, too, I had the strangest experiences: he who had captivated the audiences of
Leipzig, more especially with his impersonation of the barber and the Englishman in Fra Diavolo,
suddenly revealed himself in his own house as the most fanatical adherent of the most old-fashioned
music. I listened with astonishment to the scarcely veiled contempt with which he treated even
Mozart, and the only thing he seemed to regret was that we had no operas by Sebastian Bach.
After he had explained to me that dramatic music had not actually been written yet, and that
properly speaking Gluck alone had shown any ability for it, he proceeded to what seemed an
exhaustive examination of my own opera, concerning which all I had wished to hear from him
was whether it was fit to be performed. Instead of this, however, his object seemed to be to
point out the failure of my purpose in every number. I sweated blood under the unparalleled
torture of going through my work with this man; and I told my mother and sister of my grave
depression. All these delays had already succeeded in making it impossible to perform my opera
at the date originally fixed, and now it was postponed until August of the current year (1834).

An incident which I shall never forget inspired me with fresh courage. Old Bierey, an experienced
and excellent musician, and in his day a successful composer, who, thanks more particularly
to his long practice as a conductor at the Breslau theatre, had acquired a perfectly practical
knowledge of such things, was then living at Leipzig, and was a good friend of my people. My
mother and sister begged him to give his opinion about the fitness of my opera for the stage,
and I duly submitted the score to him. I cannot say how deeply affected and impressed I was
to see this old gentleman appear one day among my relatives, and to hear him declare with genuine
enthusiasm that he simply could not understand how so young a man could have composed such
a score. His remarks concerning the greatness which he had recognised in my talent were really
irresistible, and positively amazed me. When asked whether he considered the work presentable
and calculated to produce an effect, he declared his only regret was that he was no longer
at the head of a theatre, because, had he been, he would have thought himself extremely lucky
to secure such a man as myself permanently for his enterprise. At this announcement my family
was overcome with joy, and their feelings were all the more justified seeing that, as they
all knew, Bierey was by no means an amiable romancer, but a practical musician well seasoned
by a life full of experience.

The delay was now borne with better spirits, and for a long time I was able to wait hopefully
for what the future might bring. Among other things, I now began to enjoy the company of a
new friend in the person of Laube, who at that time, although I had not set his Kosziusko to
music, was at the zenith of his fame. The first portion of his novel, Young Europe, the form
of which was epistolary, had appeared, and had a most stimulating effect on me, more particularly
in conjunction with all the youthful hopefulness which at that time pulsated in my veins. Though
his teaching was essentially only a repetition of that in Heinse's Ardinghello, the forces
that then surged in young breasts were given full and eloquent expression. The guiding spirit
of this tendency was followed in literary criticism, which was aimed mainly at the supposed
or actual incapacity of the semi-classical occupants of our various literary thrones. Without
the slightest mercy the pedants, [Footnote: Zopfe in the German text.-- TRANSLATOR.] among
whom Tieck for one was numbered, were treated as sheer encumbrances and hindrances to the rise
of a new literature. That which led to a remarkable revulsion of my feelings with regard to
those German composers who hitherto had been admired and respected, was partly the influence
of these critical skirmishes, and the luring sprightliness of their tone; but mainly the impression
made by a fresh visit of Schroder- Devrient to Leipzig, when her rendering of Borneo in Bellini's
Romeo and Juliet carried every one by storm. The effect of it was not to be compared with anything
that had been witnessed theretofore. To see the daring, romantic figure of the youthful lover
against a background of such obviously shallow and empty music prompted one, at all events,
to meditate doubtfully upon the cause of the great lack of effect in solid German music as
it had been applied hitherto to the drama. Without for the moment plunging too deeply into
this meditation, I allowed myself to be borne along with the current of my youthful feelings,
then roused to ardour, and turned involuntarily to the task of working off all that brooding
seriousness which in my earlier years had driven me to such pathetic mysticism.

What Pohlenz had not done by his conducting of the Ninth Symphony, what the Vienna Conservatoire,
Dionys Weber, and many other clumsy performances (which had led me to regard classical music
as absolutely colourless) had not fully accomplished, was achieved by the inconceivable charm
of the most unclassical Italian music, thanks to the wonderful, thrilling, and entrancing impersonation
of Romeo by Schroder-Devrient. What effect such powerful, and as regards their causes, incomprehensible,
effects had upon my opinion was shown in the frivolous way in which I was able to contrive
a short criticism of Weber's Euryanthe for the Elegante Zeitung. This opera had been performed
by the Leipzig company shortly before the appearance of Schroder-Devrient: cold and colourless
performers, among whom the singer in the title- role, appearing in the wilderness with the
full sleeves which were then the pink of fashion, is still a disagreeable memory. Very laboriously,
and without verve, but simply with the object of satisfying the demands of classical rules,
this company did its utmost to dispel even the enthusiastic impressions of Weber's music which
I had formed in my youth. I did not know what answer to make to a brother critic of Laube's,
when he pointed out to me the laboured character of this operatic performance, as soon as he
was able to contrast it with the entrancing effect of that Romeo evening. Here I found myself
confronted with a problem, the solving of which I was just at that time disposed to take as
easily as possible, and displayed my courage by discarding all prejudice, and that daringly,
in the short criticism just mentioned in which I simply scoffed at Euryanthe. Just as I had
had my season of wild oat sowing as a student, so now I boldly rushed into the same courses
in the development of my artistic taste.

It was May, and beautiful spring weather, and a pleasure trip that I now undertook with a friend
into the promised land of my youthful romance, Bohemia, was destined to bring the unrestrained
'Young-European' mood in me to full maturity. This friend was Theodor Apel. I had known him
a long while, and had always felt particularly flattered by the fact that I had won his hearty
affection; for, as the son of the gifted master of metre and imitator of Greek forms of poetry,
August Apel, I felt that admiring deference for him which I had never yet been able to bestow
upon the descendant of a famous man. Being well-to-do and of a good family, his friendship
gave me such opportunities of coming into touch with the easy circumstances of the upper classes
as were not of frequent occurrence in my station of life. While my mother, for instance, regarded
my association with this highly respectable family with great satisfaction, I for my part was
extremely gratified at the thought of the cordiality with which I was received in such circles.

Apel's earnest wish was to become a poet, and I took it for granted that he had all that was
needed for such a calling; above all, what seemed to me so important, the complete freedom
that his considerable fortune assured him by liberating him from all need of earning his living
or of adopting a profession for a livelihood. Strange to say, his mother, who on the death
of his distinguished father had married a Leipzig lawyer, was very anxious about the vocation
he should choose, and wished her son to make a fine career in the law, as she was not at all
disposed to favour his poetical gifts. And it was to her attempts to convert me to her view,
in order that by my influence I might avert the calamity of a second poet in the family, in
the person of the son, that I owed the specially friendly relations that obtained between herself
and me. All her suggestions succeeded in doing, however, was to stimulate me, even more than
my own favourable opinion of his talent could, to confirm my friend in his desire to be a poet,
and thus to support him in his rebellious attitude towards his family.

He was not displeased at this. As he was also studying music and composed quite nicely, I succeeded
in being on terms of the greatest intimacy with him. The fact that he had spent the very year
in which I had sunk into the lowest depths of undergraduate madness, studying at Heidelberg
and not at Leipzig, had kept him unsullied by any share in my strange excesses, and when we
now met again at Leipzig, in the spring of 1834, the only thing that we still had in common
was the aesthetic aspiration of our lives, which we now strove by way of experiment to divert
into the direction of the enjoyment of life. Gladly would we have flung ourselves into lively
adventures if only the conditions of our environment and of the whole middle-class world in
which we lived had in any way admitted of such things. Despite all the promptings of our instincts,
however, we got no further than planning this excursion to Bohemia. At all events, it was something
that we made the journey not by the post, but in our own carriage, and our genuine pleasure
continued to lie in the fact that at Teplitz, for instance, we daily took long drives in a
fine carriage. When in the evening we had supped off trout at the Wilhelmsburg, drunk good
Czernosek wine with Bilin water, and duly excited ourselves over Hoffmann, Beethoven, Shakespeare,
Heinse's Ardinghello, and other matters, and then, with our limbs comfortably outstretched
in our elegant carriage, drove back in the summer twilight to the 'King of Prussia,' where
we occupied the large balcony-room on the first floor, we felt that we had spent the day like
young gods, and for sheer exuberance could think of nothing better to do than to indulge in
the most frightful quarrels which, especially when the windows were open, would collect numbers
of alarmed listeners in the square before the inn.

One fine morning I stole away from my friend in order to take my breakfast alone at the 'Schlackenburg,'
and also to seize an opportunity of jotting down the plan of a new operatic composition in
my note-book. With this end in view, I had mastered the subject of Shakespeare's Measure for
Measure, which, in accordance with my present mood, I soon transformed pretty freely into a
libretto entitled Liebesverbot. Young Europe and Ardinghello, and the strange frame of mind
into which I had fallen with regard to classical operatic music, furnished me with the keynote
of my conception, which was directed more particularly against puritanical hypocrisy, and which
thus tended boldly to exalt 'unrestrained sensuality.' I took care to understand the grave
Shakespearean theme only in this sense. I could see only the gloomy strait-laced viceroy, his
heart aflame with the most passionate love for the beautiful novice, who, while she beseeches
him to pardon her brother condemned to death for illicit love, at the same time kindles the
most dangerous fire in the stubborn Puritan's breast by infecting him with the lovely warmth
of her human emotion.

The fact that these powerful features are so richly developed in Shakespeare's creation only
in order that, in the end, they may be weighed all the more gravely in the scales of justice,
was no concern of mine: all I cared about was to expose the sinfulness of hypocrisy and the
unnaturalness of such cruel moral censure. Thus I completely dropped Measure for Measure, and
made the hypocrite be brought to justice only by the avenging power of love. I transferred
the theme from the fabulous city of Vienna to the capital of sunny Sicily, in which a German
viceroy, indignant at the inconceivably loose morals of the people, attempts to introduce a
puritanical reform, and comes miserably to grief over it. Die Stumme von Portici probably contributed
to some extent to this theme, as did also certain memories of Die Sizilianische Vesper. When
I remember that at last even the gentle Sicilian Bellini constituted a factor in this composition,
I cannot, to be sure, help smiling at the strange medley in which the most extraordinary misunderstandings
here took shape.

This remained for the present a mere draft. Studies from life destined for my work were first
to be carried out on this delightful excursion to Bohemia. I led my friend in triumph to Prague,
in the hope of securing the same impressions for him which had stirred me so profoundly when
I was there. We met my fair friends in the city itself; for, owing to the death of old Count
Pachta, material changes had taken place in the family, and the surviving daughters no longer
went to Pravonin. My behaviour was full of arrogance, and by means of it I doubtless wished
to vent a certain capricious lust of revenge for the feelings of bitterness with which I had
taken leave of this circle some years previously. My friend was well received. The changed
family circumstances forced the charming girls ever more and more imperatively to come to some
decision as to their future, and a wealthy bourgeois, though not exactly in trade himself,
but in possession of ample means, seemed to the anxious mother, at all events, a good adviser.
Without either showing or feeling any malice in the matter, I expressed my pleasure at the
sight of the strange confusion caused by Theodor's introduction into the family by the merriest
and wildest jests: for my only intercourse with the ladies consisted purely of jokes and friendly
chaff. They could not understand how it was that I had altered so strangely. There was no longer
any of that love of wrangling, that rage for instructing, and that zeal in converting in me
which formerly they had found so irritating. But at the same time not a sensible word could
I be made to utter, and they who were now wanting to talk over many things seriously could
get nothing out of me save the wildest tomfoolery. As on this occasion, in my character of
an uncaged bird, I boldly allowed myself many a liberty against which they felt themselves
powerless, my exuberant spirits were excited all the more when my friend, who was led away
by my example, tried to imitate me--a thing they took in very bad part from him.

Only once was there any attempt at seriousness between us: I was sitting at the piano, and
was listening to my companion, who was telling the ladies that in a conversation at the hotel
I had found occasion to express myself most warmly to some one who appeared to be surprised
on hearing of the domestic and industrious qualities of my lady friends. I was deeply moved
when, as the outcome of my companion's remarks, I gathered what unpleasant experiences the
poor things had already been through: for what seemed to me a very natural action on my part,
appeared to fill them with unexpected pleasure. Jenny, for instance, came up to me and hugged
me with great warmth. By general consent I was now granted the right of behaving with almost
studied rudeness, and I replied even to Jenny's warm outburst only with my usual banter.

In our hotel, the 'Black Horse,' which was so famous in those days, I found the playground
in which I was able to carry the mischievous spirit not exhausted at the Pachta's house to
the point of recklessness. Out of the most accidental material in table and travelling guests
we succeeded in gathering a company around us which allowed us, until far into the night, to
lead it into the most inconceivable follies. To all this I was incited more particularly by
the personality of a very timid and undersized business man from Frankfort on the Oder, who
longed to seem of a daring disposition; and his presence stimulated me, if only owing to the
remarkable chance it gave me of coming into contact with some one who was at home in Frankfort
'on the Oder.' Any one who knows how things then stood in Austria can form some idea of my
recklessness when I say that I once went so far as to cause our symposium in the public room
to bellow the Marseillaise out loud into the night. Therefore, when after this heroic exploit
was over, and while I was undressing, I clambered on the outer ledges of the windows from one
room to the other on the second floor, I naturally horrified those who did not know of the
love of acrobatic feats which I had cultivated in my earliest boyhood.

Even if I had exposed myself without fear to such dangers, I was soon sobered down next morning
by a summons from the police. When, in addition to this, I recalled the singing of the Marseillaise,
I was filled with the gravest fears. After having been detained at the station a long time,
owing to a strange misunderstanding, the upshot of it was that the inspector who was told off
to examine me found that there was not sufficient time left for a serious hearing, and, to
my great relief, I was allowed to go after replying to a few harmless questions concerning
the intended length of my stay. Nevertheless, we thought it advisable not to yield to the temptation
of playing any more pranks beneath the spread wings of the double eagle.

By means of a circuitous route into which we were led by our insatiable longing for adventures--adventures
which, as a matter of fact, occurred only in our imagination, and which to all intents and
purposes were but modest diversions on the road--we at length got back to Leipzig. And with
this return home the really cheerful period of my life as a youth definitely closed. If, up
to that time, I had not been free from serious errors and moments of passion, it was only now
that care cast its first shadow across my path.

My family had anxiously awaited my return in order to inform me that the post of conductor
had been offered to me by the Magdeburg Theatre Company. This company during the current summer
month was performing at a watering place called Lauchstadt. The manager could not get on with
an incompetent conductor that had been sent to him, and in his extremity had applied to Leipzig
in the hope of getting a substitute forthwith. Stegmayer, the conductor, who had no inclination
to practise my score Feen during the hot summer weather, as he had promised to do, promptly
recommended me for the post, and in that way really managed to shake off a very troublesome
tormentor. For although, on the one hand, I really desired to be able to abandon myself freely
and without restraint to the torrent of adventures that constitute the artist's life, yet a
longing for independence, which could be won only by my earning my own living, had been greatly
strengthened in me by the state of my affairs. Albeit, I had the feeling that a solid basis
for the gratification of this desire was not to be laid in Lauchstadt; nor did I find it easy
to assist the plot concocted against the production of my Feen. I therefore determined to make
a preliminary visit to the place just to see how things stood.

This little watering-place had, in the days of Goethe and Schiller, acquired a very wide reputation,
its wooden theatre had been built according to the design of the former, and the first performance
of the Braut von Messina had been given there. But although I repeated all this to myself,
the place made me feel rather doubtful. I asked for the house of the director of the theatre.
He proved to be out, but a small dirty boy, his son, was told to take me to the theatre to
find 'Papa.' Papa, however, met us on the way. He was an elderly man; he wore a dressing-gown,
and on his head a cap. His delight at greeting me was interrupted by complaints about a serious
indisposition, for which his son was to fetch him a cordial from a shop close by. Before despatching
the boy on this errand he pressed a real silver penny into his hand with a certain ostentation
which was obviously for my benefit. This person was Heinrich Bethmann, surviving husband of
the famous actress of that name, who, having lived in the heyday of the German stage, had won
the favour of the King of Prussia; and won it so lastingly, that long after her death it had
continued to be extended to her spouse. He always drew a nice pension from the Prussian court,
and permanently enjoyed its support without ever being able to forfeit its protection by his
irregular and dissipated ways.

At the time of which I am speaking he had sunk to his lowest, owing to continued theatre management.
His speech and manners revealed the sugary refinement of a bygone day, while all that he did
and everything about him testified to the most shameful neglect. He took me back to his house,
where he presented me to his second wife, who, crippled in one foot, lay on an extraordinary
couch while an elderly bass, concerning whose excessive devotion Bethmann had already complained
to me quite openly, smoked his pipe beside her. From there the director took me to his stage
manager, who lived in the same house.

With the latter, who was just engaged in a consultation about the repertory with the theatre
attendant, a toothless old skeleton, he left me to settle the necessary arrangements. As soon
as Bethmann had gone, Schmale, the stage manager, shrugged his shoulders and smiled, assuring
me that that was just the way of the director, to put everything on his back and trouble himself
about nothing. There he had been sitting for over an hour, discussing with Kroge what should
be put on next Sunday: it was all very well his starting Don Juan, but how could he get a rehearsal
carried out, when the Merseburg town bandsmen, who formed the orchestra, would not come over
on Saturday to rehearse?

All the time Schmale kept reaching out through the open window to a cherry tree from which
he picked and persistently ate the fruit, ejecting the stones with a disagreeable noise. Now
it was this last circumstance in particular which decided me; for, strange to say, I have an
innate aversion from fruit. I informed the stage manager that he need not trouble at all about
Don Juan for Sunday, since for my part, if they had reckoned on my making my first appearance
at this performance, I must anyhow disappoint the director, as I had no choice but to return
at once to Leipzig, where I had to put my affairs in order. This polite manner of tendering
my absolute refusal to accept the appointment--a conclusion I had quickly arrived at in my
own mind--forced me to practise some dissimulation, and made it necessary for me to appear
as if I really had some other purpose in coming to Lauchstadt. This pretence in itself was
quite unnecessary, seeing that I was quite determined never to return there again.

People offered to help me in finding a lodging, and a young actor whom I had chanced to know
at Wurzburg undertook to be my guide in the matter. While he was taking me to the best lodging
he knew, he told me that presently he would do me the kindness of making me the housemate of
the prettiest and nicest girl to be found in the place at the time. She was the junior lead
of the company, Mademoiselle Minna Planer, of whom doubtless I had already heard.

As luck would have it, the promised damsel met us at the door of the house in question. Her
appearance and bearing formed the most striking contrast possible to all the unpleasant impressions
of the theatre which it had been my lot to receive on this fateful morning. Looking very charming
and fresh, the young actress's general manner and movements were full of a certain majesty
and grave assurance which lent an agreeable and captivating air of dignity to her otherwise
pleasant expression. Her scrupulously clean and tidy dress completed the startling effect of
the unexpected encounter. After I had been introduced to her in the hall as the new conductor,
and after she had done regarding with astonishment the stranger who seemed so young for such
a title, she recommended me kindly to the landlady of the house, and begged that I might be
well looked after; whereupon she walked proudly and serenely across the street to her rehearsal.

I engaged a room on the spot, agreed to Don Juan for Sunday, regretted greatly that I had not
brought my luggage with me from Leipzig, and hastened to return thither as quickly as possible
in order to get back to Lauchstadt all the sooner. The die was cast. The serious side of life
at once confronted me in the form of significant experiences. At Leipzig I had to take a furtive
leave of Laube. At the instance of Prussia he had been warned off Saxon soil, and he half guessed
at the meaning which was to be attached to this move. The time of undisguised reaction against
the Liberal movement of the early 'thirties had set in: the fact that Laube was concerned in
no sort of political work, but had devoted himself merely to literary activity, always aiming
simply at aesthetic objects, made the action of the police quite incomprehensible to us for
the time being. The disgusting ambiguity with which the Leipzig authorities answered all his
questions as to the cause of his expulsion soon gave him the strongest suspicions as to what
their intentions towards him actually were.

Leipzig, as the scene of his literary labours, being inestimably precious, it mattered greatly
to him to keep within reach of it. My friend Apel owned a fine estate on Prussian soil, within
but a few hours' distance of Leipzig, and we conceived the wish of seeing Laube hospitably
harboured there. My friend, who without infringing the legal stipulations was in a position
to give the persecuted man a place of refuge, immediately assented, and with great readiness,
to our desire, but confessed to us next day, after having communicated with his family, that
he thought he might incur some unpleasantnesses if he entertained Laube. At this the latter
smiled, and in a manner I shall never forget, though I have noticed in the course of my life
that the expression which I then saw in his face was one which has often flitted over my own
features. He took his leave, and in a short time we heard that he had been arrested, owing
to having undertaken fresh proceedings against former members of the Burschenschaft (Students'
League), and had been lodged in the municipal prison at Berlin. I had thus had two experiences
which weighed me down like lead, so I packed my scanty portmanteau, took leave of my mother
and sister, and, with a stout heart, started on my career as a conductor.

In order to be able to look upon the little room under Minna's lodging as my new home, I was
forced also to make the best of Bethmann's theatrical enterprise. As a matter of fact, a performance
of Don Juan was given at once, for the director, who prided himself on being a connoisseur
of things artistic, suggested that opera to me as one with which it would be wise for an aspiring
young artist, of a good family, to make his debut. Despite the fact that, apart from some of
my own instrumental compositions, I had never yet conducted, and least of all in opera, the
rehearsal and the performance went off fairly well. Only once or twice did discrepancies appear
in the recitative of Donna Anna; yet this did not involve me in any kind of hostility, and
when I took my place unabashed and calm for the production of Lumpaci Vagabundus, which I had
practised very thoroughly, the people generally seemed to have gained full confidence in the
theatre's new acquisition.

The fact that I submitted without bitterness and even with some cheerfulness to this unworthy
use of my musical talent, was due less to my taste being at this period, as I called it, in
its salad days, than to my intercourse with Minna Planer, who was employed in that magic trifle
as the Amorous Fairy. Indeed, in the midst of this dust-cloud of frivolity and vulgarity, she
always seemed very much like a fairy, the reasons of whose descent into this giddy whirl, which
of a truth seemed neither to carry her away nor even to affect her, remained an absolute mystery.
For while I could discover nothing in the opera singers save the familiar stage caricatures
and grimaces, this fair actress differed wholly from those about her in her unaffected soberness
and dainty modesty, as also in the absence of all theatrical pretence and stiltedness. There
was only one young man whom I could place beside Minna on the ground of qualities like those
I recognised in her. This fellow was Friedrich Schmitt, who had only just adopted the stage
as a career in the hope of making a 'hit' in opera, to which, as the possessor of an excellent
tenor voice, he felt himself called. He too differed from the rest of the company, especially
in the earnestness which he brought to bear upon his studies and his work in general: the soulful
manly pitch of his chest voice, his clear, noble enunciation and intelligent rendering of his
words, have always remained as standards in my memory. Owing to the fact that he was wholly
devoid of theatrical talent, and acted clumsily and awkwardly, a check was soon put to his
progress, but he always remained dear to me as a clever and original man of trustworthy and
upright character--my only associate.

But my dealings with my kind housemate soon became a cherished habit, while she returned the
ingenuously impetuous advances of the conductor of one-and-twenty with a certain tolerant astonishment
which, remote as it was from all coquetry and ulterior motives, soon made familiar and friendly
intercourse possible with her. When, one evening, I returned late to my ground-floor room,
by climbing through the window, for I had no latch-key, the noise of my entry brought Minna
to her window just over mine. Standing on my window ledge I begged her to allow me to bid her
good-night once more. She had not the slightest objection to this, but declared it must be
done from the window, as she always had her door locked by the people of the house, and nobody
could get in that way. She kindly facilitated the handshake by leaning far out of her window,
so that I could take her hand as I stood on my ledge. When later on I had an attack of erysipelas,
from which I often suffered, and with my face all swollen and frightfully distorted concealed
myself from the world in my gloomy room, Minna visited me repeatedly, nursed me, and assured
me that my distorted features did not matter in the least. On recovering, I paid her a visit
and complained of a rash that had remained round my mouth, and which seemed so unpleasant that
I apologised for showing it to her. This also she made light of. Then I inferred she would
not give me a kiss, whereupon she at once gave me practical proof that she did not shrink from
that either.

This was all done with a friendly serenity and composure that had something almost motherly
about it, and it was free from all suggestion of frivolity or of heartlessness. In a few weeks
the company had to leave Lauchstadt to proceed to Rudolstadt and fulfil a special engagement
there. I was particularly anxious to make this journey, which in those days was an arduous
undertaking, in Minna's company, and if only I had succeeded in getting my well-earned salary
duly paid by Bethmann, nothing would have hindered the fulfilment of my wish. But in this matter
I encountered exceptional difficulties, which in the course of eventful years grew in chronic
fashion into the strangest of ailments. Even at Lauchstadt I had discovered that there was
only one man who drew his salary in full, namely the bass Kneisel, whom I had seen smoking
his pipe beside the couch of the director's lame wife. I was assured that if I cared greatly
about getting some of my wages from time to time, I could obtain this favour only by paying
court to Mme. Bethmann. This time I preferred once more to appeal to my family for help, and
therefore travelled to Rudolstadt through Leipzig, where, to the sad astonishment of my mother,
I had to replenish my coffer with the necessary supplies. On the way to Leipzig I had travelled
with Apel through his estate, he having fetched me from Lauchstadt for the purpose. His arrival
was fixed in my memory by a noisy banquet which my wealthy friend gave at the hotel in my honour.
It was on this occasion that I and one of the other guests succeeded in completely destroying
a huge, massively built Dutch-tile stove, such as we had in our room at the inn. Next morning
none of us could understand how it had happened.

It was on this journey to Rudolstadt that I first passed through Weimar, where on a rainy day
I strolled with curiosity, but without emotion, towards Goethe's house. I had pictured something
rather different, and thought I should experience livelier impressions from the active theatre
life of Rudolstadt, to which I felt strongly attracted. In spite of the fact that I was not
to be conductor myself, this post having been entrusted to the leader of the royal orchestra,
who had been specially engaged for our performances, yet I was so fully occupied with rehearsals
for the many operas and musical comedies required to regale the frivolous public of the principality
that I found no leisure for excursions into the charming regions of this little land. In addition
to these severe and ill-paid labours, two passions held me chained during the six weeks of
my stay in Rudolstadt. These were, first, a longing to write the libretto of Liebesverbot;
and secondly, my growing attachment to Minna. It is true, I sketched out a musical composition
about this time, a symphony in E major, whose first movement (3/4 time) I completed as a separate
piece. As regards style and design, this work was suggested by Beethoven's Seventh and Eighth
Symphonies, and, so far as I can remember, I should have had no need to be ashamed of it, had
I been able to complete it, or keep the part I had actually finished. But I had already begun
at this time to form the opinion that, to produce anything fresh and truly noteworthy in the
realm of symphony, and according to Beethoven's methods, was an impossibility. Whereas opera,
to which I felt inwardly drawn, though I had no real example I wished to copy, presented itself
to my mind in varied and alluring shapes as a most fascinating form of art. Thus, amid manifold
and passionate agitations, and in the few leisure hours which were left to me, I completed
the greater part of my operatic poem, taking infinitely more pains, both as regards words and
versification, than with the text of my earlier Feen. Moreover, I found myself possessed of
incomparably greater assurance in the arrangement and partial invention of situations than
when writing that earlier work.

On the other hand, I now began for the first time to experience the cares and worries of a
lover's jealousy. A change, to me inexplicable, manifested itself in Minna's hitherto unaffected
and gentle manner towards me. It appears that my artless solicitations for her favour, by which
at that time I meant nothing serious, and in which a man of the world would merely have seen
the exuberance of a youthful and easily satisfied infatuation, had given rise to certain remarks
and comments upon the popular actress. I was astonished to learn, first from her reserved manner,
and later from her own lips, that she felt compelled to inquire into the seriousness of my
intentions, and to consider their consequences. She was at that time, as I had already discovered,
on very intimate terms with a young nobleman, whose acquaintance I first made in Lauchstadt,
where he used to visit her. I had already realised on that occasion that he was unfeignedly
and cordially attached to her; in fact, in the circle of her friends she was regarded as engaged
to Herr von O., although it was obvious that marriage was out of the question, as the young
lover was quite without means, and owing to the high standing of his family it was essential
that he should sacrifice himself to a marriage of convenience, both on account of his social
position and of the career which he would have to adopt. During this stay at Rudolstadt Minna
appears to have gathered certain information on this point which troubled and depressed her,
thus rendering her more inclined to treat my impetuous attempts at courtship with cool reserve.

After mature deliberation I recognised that, in any case, Young Europe, Ardinghello, and Liebesverbot
could not be produced at Rudolstadt; but it was a very different matter for the Fee Amorosa,
with its merry theatrical mood, and an Ehrlicher Burger Kind to seek a decent livelihood. Therefore,
greatly discouraged, I proceeded to accentuate the more extravagant situations of my Liebesverbot
by rioting with a few comrades in the sausage- scented atmosphere of the Rudolstadt Vogelwiese.
At this time my troubles again brought me more or less into contact with the vice of gambling,
although on this occasion it only cast temporary fetters about me in the very harmless form
of the dice and roulette-tables out on the open market-place.

We were looking forward to the time when we should leave Rudolstadt for the half-yearly winter
season at the capital, Magdeburg, mainly because I should there resume my place at the head
of the orchestra, and might in any case count on a better reward for my musical efforts. But
before returning to Magdeburg I had to endure a trying interval at Bernburg, where Bethmann,
the director, in addition to his other undertakings, had also promised sundry theatrical performances.
During our brief stay in the town I had to arrange for the presentation, with a mere fraction
of the company, of several operas, which were again to be conducted by the royal conductor
of the place. But in addition to these professional labours, I had to endure such a meagre,
ill-provided and grievously farcical existence as was enough to disgust me, if not for ever,
at any rate for the time being, with the wretched profession of a theatrical conductor. Yet
I survived even this, and Magdeburg was destined to lead me eventually to the real glory of
my adopted profession.

The sensation of sitting in command at the very conductor's desk from which, not many years
before, the great master Kuhnlein had so moved the perplexed young enthusiast by the weighty
wisdom of his musical directorship, was not without its charm for me, and, indeed, I very quickly
succeeded in obtaining perfect confidence in conducting an orchestra. I was soon a persona
grata with the excellent musicians of the orchestra. Their splendid combination in spirited
overtures, which, especially towards the finale, I generally took at an unheard-of speed, often
earned for us all the intoxicating applause of the public. The achievements of my fiery and
often exuberant zeal won me recognition from the singers, and were greeted by the audience
with rapturous appreciation. As in Magdeburg, at least in those days, the art of theatrical
criticism was but slightly developed, this universal satisfaction was a great encouragement,
and at the end of the first three months of my Magdeburg conductorship I felt sustained by
the flattering and comforting assurance that I was one of the bigwigs of opera. Under these
circumstances, Schmale, the stage manager, who has been my good friend ever since, proposed
a special gala performance for New Year's Day, which he felt sure would be a triumph. I was
to compose the necessary music. This was very speedily done; a rousing overture, several melodramas
and choruses were all greeted with enthusiasm, and brought us such ample applause that we repeated
the performance with great success, although such repetitions after the actual gala day were
quite contrary to usage.

With the new year (1835) there came a decisive turning-point in my life. After the rupture
between Minna and myself at Rudolstadt, we had been to some extent lost to one another; but
our friendship was resumed on our meeting again in Magdeburg; this time, however, it remained
cool and purposely indifferent. When she first appeared in the town, a year before, her beauty
had attracted considerable notice, and I now learned that she was the object of great attention
from several young noblemen, and had shown herself not unmoved by the compliment implied by
their visits. Although her reputation, thanks to her absolute discretion and self-respect,
remained beyond reproach, my objection to her receiving such attentions grew very strong, owing
possibly, in some degree, to the memory of the sorrows I had endured in Pachta's house in Prague.
Although Minna assured me that the conduct of these gentlemen was much more discreet and decent
than that of theatre-goers of the bourgeois class, and especially than that of certain young
musical conductors, she never succeeded in soothing the bitterness and insistence with which
I protested against her acceptance of such attentions. So we spent three unhappy months in
ever-increasing estrangement, and at the same time, in half-frantic despair, I pretended to
be fond of the most undesirable associates, and acted in every way with such blatant levity
that Minna, as she told me afterwards, was filled with the deepest anxiety and solicitude concerning
me. Moreover, as the ladies of the opera company were not slow to pay court to their youthful
conductor, and especially as one young woman, whose reputation was not spotless, openly set
her cap at me, this anxiety of Minna's seems at last to have culminated in a definite decision.
I hit upon the idea of treating the elite of our opera company to oysters and punch in my own
room on New Year's Eve. The married couples were invited, and then came the question whether
Fraulein Planer would consent to take part in such a festivity. She accepted quite ingenuously,
and presented herself, as neatly and becomingly dressed as ever, in my bachelor apartments,
where things soon grew pretty lively. I had already warned my landlord that we were not likely
to be very quiet, and reassured him as to any possible damage to his furniture. What the champagne
failed to accomplish, the punch eventually succeeded in doing; all the restraints of petty
conventionality, which the company usually endeavoured to observe, were cast aside, giving
place to an unreserved demeanour all round, to which no one objected. And then it was that
Minna's queenly dignity distinguished her from all her companions. She never lost her self-respect;
and whilst no one ventured to take the slightest liberty with her, every one very clearly recognised
the simple candour with which she responded to my kindly and solicitous attentions. They could
not fail to see that the link existing between us was not to be compared to any ordinary liaison,
and we had the satisfaction of seeing the flighty young lady who had so openly angled for me
fall into a fit over the discovery.

From that time onward I remained permanently on the best of terms with Minna. I do not believe
that she ever felt any sort of passion or genuine love for me, or, indeed, that she was capable
of such a thing, and I can therefore only describe her feeling for me as one of heartfelt goodwill,
and the sincerest desire for my success and prosperity, inspired as she was with the kindest
sympathy, and genuine delight at, and admiration for, my talents. All this at last became part
of her nature. She obviously had a very favourable opinion of my abilities, though she was
surprised at the rapidity of my success. My eccentric nature, which she knew so well how to
humour pleasantly by her gentleness, stimulated her to the continual exercise of the power,
so flattering to her own vanity, and without ever betraying any desire or ardour herself, she
never met my impetuous advances with coldness.

At the Magdeburg theatre I had already made the acquaintance of a very interesting woman called
Mme. Haas. She was an actress, no longer in her first youth, and played so-called 'chaperone's
parts.' This lady won my sympathy by telling me she had been friendly ever since her youth
with Laube, in whose destiny she continued to take a heartfelt and cordial interest. She was
clever, but far from happy, and an unprepossessing exterior, which with the lapse of years
grew more uninviting, did not tend to make her any happier. She lived in meagre circumstances,
with one child, and appeared to remember her better days with a bitter grief. My first visit
to her was paid merely to inquire after Laube's fate, but I soon became a frequent and familiar
caller. As she and Minna speedily became fast friends, we three often spent pleasant evenings
talking together. But when, later on, a certain jealousy manifested itself on the part of the
elder woman towards the younger, our confidential relations were more or less disturbed, for
it particularly grieved me to hear Minna's talents and mental gifts criticised by the other.
One evening I had promised Minna to have tea with her and Mme. Haas, but I had thoughtlessly
promised to go to a whist party first. This engagement I purposely prolonged, much as it wearied
me, in the deliberate hope that her companion--who had already grown irksome to me--might have
left before my arrival. The only way in which I could do this was by drinking hard, so that
I had the very unusual experience of rising from a sober whist party in a completely fuddled
condition, into which I had imperceptibly fallen, and in which I refused to believe. This incredulity
deluded me into keeping my engagement for tea, although it was so late. To my intense disgust
the elder woman was still there when I arrived, and her presence at once had the effect of
rousing my tipsiness to a violent outbreak; for she seemed astonished at my rowdy and unseemly
behaviour, and made several remarks upon it intended for jokes, whereupon I scoffed at her
in the coarsest manner, so that she immediately left the house in high dudgeon. I had still
sense enough to be conscious of Minna's astonished laughter at my outrageous conduct. As soon
as she realised, however, that my condition was such as to render my removal impossible without
great commotion, she rapidly formed a resolution which must indeed have cost her an effort,
though it was carried out with the utmost calmness and good-humour. She did all she could for
me, and procured me the necessary relief, and when I sank into a heavy slumber, unhesitatingly
resigned her own bed to my use. There I slept until awakened by the wonderful grey of dawn.
On recognising where I was, I at once realised and grew ever more convinced of the fact that
this morning's sunrise marked the starting-point of an infinitely momentous period of my life.
The demon of care had at last entered into my existence.

Without any light-hearted jests, without gaiety or joking of any description, we breakfasted
quietly and decorously together, and at an hour when, in view of the compromising circumstances
of the previous evening, we could set out without attracting undue notice, I set off with Minna
for a long walk beyond the city gates. Then we parted, and from that day forward freely and
openly gratified our desires as an acknowledged pair of lovers.

The peculiar direction which my musical activities had gradually taken continued to receive
ever fresh impetus, not only from the successes, but also from the disasters which about this
time befell my efforts. I produced the overture to my Feen with very satisfactory results at
a concert given by the Logengesellschaft, and thereby earned considerable applause. On the
other hand, news came from Leipzig confirming the shabby action of the directors of the theatre
in that place with regard to the promised presentation of this opera. But, happily for me,
I had begun the music for my Liebesverbot, an occupation which so absorbed my thoughts that
I lost all interest in the earlier work, and abstained with proud indifference from all further
effort to secure its performance in Leipzig. The success of its overture alone amply repaid
me for the composition of my first opera.

Meanwhile, in spite of numerous other distractions, I found time, during the brief six months
of this theatrical season in Magdeburg, to complete a large portion of my new opera, besides
doing other work. I ventured to introduce two duets from it at a concert given in the theatre,
and their reception encouraged me to proceed hopefully with the rest of the opera.

During the second half of this season my friend Apel came to sun himself enthusiastically in
the splendour of my musical directorship. He had written a drama, Columbus, which I recommended
to our management for production. This was a peculiarly easy favour to win, as Apel volunteered
to have a new scene, representing the Alhambra, painted at his own expense. Besides this, he
proposed to effect many welcome improvements in the condition of the actors taking part in
his play; for, owing to the continued preference displayed by the directress for Kneisel, the
bass, they had all suffered very much from uncertainty about their wages. The piece itself
appeared to me to contain much that was good. It described the difficulties and struggles of
the great navigator before he set sail on his first voyage of discovery. The drama ended with
the momentous departure of his ships from the harbour of Palos, an episode whose results are
known to all the world. At my desire Apel submitted his play to my uncle Adolph, and even in
his critical opinion it was remarkable for its lively and characteristic popular scenes. On
the other hand, a love romance, which he had woven into the plot, struck me as unnecessary
and dull. In addition to a brief chorus for some Moors who were expelled from Granada, to be
sung on their departure from the familiar home country, and a short orchestral piece by way
of conclusion, I also dashed off an overture for my friend's play. I sketched out the complete
draft of this one evening at Minna's house, while Apel was left free to talk to her as much
and as loudly as he liked. The effect this composition was calculated to produce rested on
a fundamental idea which was quite simple, yet startling in its development. Unfortunately
I worked it out rather hurriedly. In not very carefully chosen phrasing the orchestra was to
represent the ocean, and, as far as might be, the ship upon it. A forcible, pathetically yearning
and aspiring theme was the only comprehensible idea amid the swirl of enveloping sound. When
the whole had been repeated, there was a sudden jump to a different theme in extreme pianissimo,
accompanied by the swelling vibrations of the first violins, which was intended to represent
a Fata Morgana. I had secured three pairs of trumpets in different keys, in order to produce
this exquisite, gradually dawning and seductive theme with the utmost niceties of shade and
variety of modulation. This was intended to represent the land of desire towards which the
hero's eyes are turned, and whose shores seem continually to rise before him only to sink elusively
beneath the waves, until at last they soar in very deed above the western horizon, the crown
of all his toil and search, and stand clearly and unmistakably revealed to all the sailors,
a vast continent of the future. My six trumpets were now to combine in one key, in order that
the theme assigned to them might re-echo in glorious jubilation. Familiar as I was with the
excellence of the Prussian regimental trumpeters, I could rely upon a startling effect, especially
in this concluding passage. My overture astonished every one, and was tumultuously applauded.
The play itself, however, was acted without dignity. A conceited comedian, named Ludwig Meyer,
completely ruined the title part, for which he excused himself on the ground that, having to
act as stage manager also, he had been unable to commit his lines to memory. Nevertheless,
he managed to enrich his wardrobe with several splendid costumes at Apel's expense, wearing
them, as Columbus, one after the other. At all events, Apel had lived to see a play of his
own actually performed, and although this was never repeated, yet it afforded me an opportunity
of increasing my personal popularity with the people of Magdeburg, as the overture was several
times repeated at concerts by special request.

But the chief event of this theatrical season occurred towards its close. I induced Mme. Schroder-Devrient,
who was staying in Leipzig, to come to us for a few special performances, when, on two occasions,
I had the great satisfaction and stimulating experience of myself conducting the operas in
which she sang, and thus entering into immediate artistic collaboration with her. She appeared
as Desdemona and Romeo. In the latter role particularly she surpassed herself, and kindled
a fresh flame in my breast. This visit brought us also into closer personal contact. So kindly
disposed and sympathetic did she show herself towards me, that she even volunteered to lend
me her services at a concert which I proposed to give for my own benefit, although this would
necessitate her returning after a brief absence. Under circumstances so auspicious I could
only expect the best possible results from my concert, and in my situation at that time its
proceeds were a matter of vital importance to me. My scanty salary from the Magdeburg opera
company had become altogether illusory, being paid only in small and irregular instalments,
so that I could see but one way of meeting my daily expenses. These included frequent entertainment
of a large circle of friends, consisting of singers and players, and the situation had become
unpleasantly accentuated by no small number of debts. True, I did not know their exact amount;
but reckoned that I could at least form an advantageous, if indefinite, estimate of the sum
to be realized by my concert, whereby the two unknown quantities might balance each other.
I therefore consoled my creditors with the tale of these fabulous receipts, which were to pay
them all in full the day after the concert. I even went so far as to invite them to come and
be paid at the hotel to which I had moved at the close of the season.

And, indeed, there was nothing unreasonable in my counting on the highest imaginable receipts,
when supported by so great and popular a singer, who, moreover, was returning to Magdeburg
on purpose for the event. I consequently acted with reckless prodigality as regards cost, launching
out into all manner of musical extravagance, such as engaging an excellent and much larger
orchestra, and arranging many rehearsals. Unfortunately for me, however, nobody would believe
that such a famous actress, whose time was so precious, would really return again to please
a little Magdeburg conductor. My pompous announcement of her appearance was almost universally
regarded as a deceitful manoeuvre, and people took offence at the high prices charged for seats.
The result was that the hall was only very scantily filled, a fact which particularly grieved
me on account of my generous patroness. Her promise I had never doubted. Punctually on the
day appointed she reappeared to support me, and now had the painful and unaccustomed experience
of performing before a small audience. Fortunately, she treated the matter with great good-humour
(which, I learned later, was prompted by other motives, not personally concerning me). Among
several pieces she sang Beethoven's Adelaide most exquisitely, wherein, to my own astonishment,
I accompanied her on the piano. But, alas! another and more unexpected mishap befell my concert,
through our unfortunate selection of pieces. Owing to the excessive reverberation of the saloon
in the Hotel 'The City of London,' the noise was unbearable. My Columbus Overture, with its
six trumpets, had early in the evening filled the audience with terror; and now, at the end,
came Beethoven's Schlacht bei Vittoria, for which, in enthusiastic expectation of limitless
receipts, I had provided every imaginable orchestral luxury. The firing of cannon and musketry
was organised with the utmost elaboration, on both the French and English sides, by means of
specially constructed and costly apparatus; while trumpets and bugles had been doubled and
trebled. Then began a battle, such as has seldom been more cruelly fought in a concert-room.
The orchestra flung itself, so to speak, upon the scanty audience with such an overwhelming
superiority of numbers that the latter speedily gave up all thought of resistance and literally
took to flight. Mme. Schroder-Devrient had kindly taken a front seat, that she might hear the
concert to an end. Much as she may have been inured to terrors of this kind, this was more
than she could stand, even out of friendship for me. When, therefore, the English made a fresh
desperate assault upon the French position, she took to flight, almost wringing her hands.
Her action became the signal for a panic-stricken stampede. Every one rushed out; and Wellington's
victory was finally celebrated in a confidential outburst between myself and the orchestra
alone. Thus ended this wonderful musical festival. Schroder-Devrient at once departed, deeply
regretting the ill-success of her well-meant effort, and kindly left me to my fate. After seeking
comfort in the arms of my sorrowing sweetheart, and attempting to nerve myself for the morrow's
battle, which did not seem likely to end in a victorious symphony, I returned next morning
to the hotel. I found I could only reach my rooms by running the gauntlet between long rows
of men and women in double file, who had all been specially invited thither for the settlement
of their respective affairs. Reserving the right to select individuals from among my visitors
for separate interview, I first of all led in the second trumpeter of the orchestra, whose
duty it had been to look after the cash and the music. From his account I learned that, owing
to the high fees which, in my generous enthusiasm, I had promised to the orchestra, a few more
shillings and sixpences would still have to come out of my own pocket to meet these charges
alone. When this was settled, the position of affairs was plain. The next person I invited
to come in was Mme. Gottschalk, a trustworthy Jewess, with whom I wanted to come to some arrangement
respecting the present crisis. She perceived at once that more than ordinary help was required
in this case, but did not doubt that I should be able to obtain it from my opulent connections
in Leipzig. She undertook, therefore, to appease the other creditors with tranquillising assurances,
and railed, or pretended to rail, against their indecent conduct with great vigour. Thus at
last we succeeded, though not without some difficulty, in making the corridor outside my door
once more passable.

The theatrical season was now over, our company on the point of dissolution, and I myself free
from my appointment. But meanwhile the unhappy director of our theatre had passed from a state
of chronic to one of acute bankruptcy. He paid with paper money, that is to say, with whole
sheets of box-tickets for performances which he guaranteed should take place. By dint of great
craft Minna managed to extract some profit even from these singular treasury-bonds. She was
living at this time most frugally and economically. Moreover, as the dramatic company still
continued its efforts on behalf of its members--only the opera troupe having been dissolved--she
remained at the theatre. Thus, when I started out on my compulsory return to Leipzig, she saw
me off with hearty good-wishes for our speedy reunion, promising to spend the next holidays
in visiting her parents in Dresden, on which occasion she hoped also to look me up in Leipzig.

Thus it came about that early in May I once more went home to my own folk, in order that after
this abortive first attempt at civic independence, I might finally lift the load of debt with
which my efforts in Magdeburg had burdened me. An intelligent brown poodle faithfully accompanied
me, and was entrusted to my family for food and entertainment as the only visible property
I had acquired. Nevertheless, my mother and Rosalie succeeded in founding good hopes for my
future career upon the bare fact of my being able to conduct an orchestra. To me, on the other
hand, the thought of returning once more to my former life with my family was very discomfiting.
My relation to Minna in particular spurred me on to resume my interrupted career as speedily
as possible. The great change which had come over me in this respect was more apparent than
ever when Minna spent a few days with me in Leipzig on her way home. Her familiar and genial
presence proclaimed that my days of parental dependence were past and gone. We discussed the
renewal of my Magdeburg engagement, and I promised her an early visit in Dresden. I obtained
permission from my mother and sister to invite her one evening to tea, and in this way I introduced
her to my family. Rosalie saw at once how matters stood with me, but made no further use of
the discovery than to tease me about being in love. To her the affair did not appear dangerous;
but to me things wore a very different aspect, for this love-lorn attachment was entirely in
keeping with my independent spirit, and my ambition to win myself a place in the world of art.

My distaste for Leipzig itself was furthermore strengthened by a change which occurred there
at this time in the realm of music. At the very time that I, in Magdeburg, was attempting to
make my reputation as a musical conductor by thoughtless submission to the frivolous taste
of the day, Mendelssohn-Bartholdy was conducting the Gewandhaus concerts, and inaugurating
a momentous epoch for himself and the musical taste of Leipzig. His influence had put an end
to the simple ingenuousness with which the Leipzig public had hitherto judged the productions
of its sociable subscription concerts. Through the influence of my good old friend Pohlenz,
who was not yet altogether laid on the shelf, I managed to produce my Columbus Overture at
a benefit concert given by the favourite young singer, Livia Gerhart. But, to my amazement,
I found that the taste of the musical public in Leipzig had been given a different bent, which
not even my rapturously applauded overture, with its brilliant combination of six trumpets,
could influence. This experience deepened my dislike of everything approaching a classical
tone, in which sentiment I found myself in complete accord with honest Pohlenz, who sighed
good-naturedly over the downfall of the good old times.

Arrangements for a musical festival at Dessau, under Friedrich Schneider's conductorship, offered
me a welcome chance of quitting Leipzig. For this journey, which could be performed on foot
in seven hours, I had to procure a passport for eight days. This document was destined to play
an important part in my life for many years to come; for on several occasions and in various
European countries it was the only paper I possessed to prove my identity. In fact, owing to
my evasion of military duty in Saxony, I never again succeeded in obtaining a regular pass
until I was appointed musical conductor in Dresden. I derived very little artistic pleasure
or benefit of any kind from this occasion; on the contrary, it gave a fresh impetus to my hatred
of the classical. I heard Beethoven's Symphony in C minor conducted by a man whose physiognomy,
resembling that of a drunken satyr, filled me with unconquerable disgust. In spite of an interminable
row of contrabassi, with which a conductor usually coquettes at musical festivals, his performance
was so expressionless and inane that I turned away in disgust as from an alarming and repulsive
problem, and desisted from all attempts to explain the impassable gulf which, as I again perceived,
yawned between my own vivid and imaginative conception of this work and the only living presentations
of it which I had ever heard. But for the present my tormented spirits were cheered and calmed
by hearing the classical Schneider's oratorio Absalom rendered as an absolute burlesque.

It was in Dessau that Minna had made her first debut on the stage, and while there I heard
her spoken of by frivolous young men in the tone usual in such circles when discussing young
and beautiful actresses. My eagerness in contradicting this chatter and confounding the scandalmongers
revealed to me more clearly than ever the strength of the passion which drew me to her.

I therefore returned to Leipzig without calling on my relatives, and there procured means for
an immediate journey to Dresden. On the way (the journey was still performed by express coach)
I met Minna, accompanied by one of her sisters, already on the way back to Magdeburg. Promptly
procuring a posting ticket for the return journey to Leipzig, I actually set off thither with
my dear girl; but by the time we reached the next station I had succeeded in persuading her
to turn back with me to Dresden. By this time the mail-coach was far ahead of us, and we had
to travel by special post-chaise. This lively bustling to and fro seemed to astonish the two
girls, and put them into high spirits. The extravagance of my conduct had evidently roused
them to the expectation of adventures, and it now behoved me to fulfil this expectation. Procuring
from a Dresden acquaintance the necessary cash, I conducted my two lady friends through the
Saxon Alps, where we spent several right merry days of innocent and youthful gaiety. Only once
was this disturbed by a passing fit of jealousy on my part, for which, indeed, there was no
occasion, but which fed itself in my heart on a nervous apprehension of the future, and upon
the experience I had already gained of womenkind. Yet, despite this blot, our excursion still
lingers in my memory as the sweetest and almost sole remembrance of unalloyed happiness in
the whole of my life as a young man. One evening in particular stands out in bright relief,
during which we sat together almost all night at the watering-place of Schandau in glorious
summer weather. Indeed, my subsequent long and anxious connection with Minna, interwoven as
it was with the most painful and bitter vicissitudes, has often appeared to me as a persistently
prolonged expiation of the brief and harmless enjoyment of those few days.

After accompanying Minna to Leipzig, whence she continued her journey to Magdeburg, I presented
myself to my family, but told them nothing of my Dresden excursion. I now braced my energies,
as though under the stern compulsion of a strange and deep sense of duty, to the task of making
such arrangements as would speedily restore me to my dear one's side. To this end a fresh engagement
had to be negotiated with Director Bethmann for the coming winter season. Unable to await the
conclusion of our contract in Leipzig, I availed myself of Laube's presence at the baths in
Kosen, near Naumburg, to pay him a visit. Laube had only recently been discharged from the
Berlin municipal gaol, after a tormenting inquisition of nearly a year's duration. On giving
his parole not to leave the country until the verdict had been given, he had been permitted
to retire to Kosen, from which place he, one evening, paid us a secret visit in Leipzig. I
can still call his woebegone appearance to mind. He seemed hopelessly resigned, though he spoke
cheerfully with regard to all his earlier dreams of better things; and owing to my own worries
at that time about the critical state of my affairs, this impression still remains one of my
saddest and most painful recollections. While at Kosen I showed him a good many of the verses
for my Liebesverbot, and although he spoke coldly of my presumption in wishing to write my
own libretto, I was slightly encouraged by his appreciation of my work.

Meanwhile I impatiently awaited letters from Magdeburg. Not that I had any doubt as to the
renewal of my engagement; on the contrary, I had every reason to regard myself as a good acquisition
for Bethmann; but I felt as though nothing which tended to bring me nearer to Minna could move
fast enough. As soon as I received the necessary tidings, I hurried away to make all needful
arrangements on the spot for ensuring a magnificent success in the coming Magdeburg operatic
season.

Through the tireless munificence of the King of Prussia fresh and final assistance had been
granted to our perennially bankrupt theatrical director. His Majesty had assigned a not inconsiderable
sum to a committee consisting of substantial Magdeburg citizens, as a subsidy to be expended
on the theatre under Bethmann's management. What this meant, and the respect with which I thereupon
regarded the artistic conditions of Magdeburg, may be best imagined if one remembers the neglected
and forlorn surroundings amid which such provincial theatres usually drag out their lives.
I offered at once to undertake a long journey in search of good operatic singers. I said I
would find the means for this at my own risk, and the only guarantee I demanded from the management
for eventual reimbursement was that they should assign me the proceeds of a future benefit
performance. This offer was gladly accepted, and in pompous tones the director furnished me
with the necessary powers, and moreover gave me his parting blessing. During this brief interval
I lived once more in intimate communion with Minna--who now had her mother with her--and then
took fresh leave of her for my venturesome enterprise.

But when I got to Leipzig I found it by no means easy to procure the funds, so confidently
counted on when in Magdeburg, for the expenses of my projected journey. The glamour of the
royal protection of Prussia for our theatrical undertaking, which I portrayed in the liveliest
colours to my good brother-in-law Brockhaus, quite failed to dazzle him, and it was at the
cost of great pains and humiliation that I finally got my ship of discovery under weigh.

I was naturally drawn first of all to my old wonderland of Bohemia. There I merely touched
at Prague and, without visiting my lovely lady friends, I hurried forward so that I might first
sample the opera company then playing for the season at Karlsbad. Impatient to discover as
many talents as I could as soon as possible, so as not to exhaust my funds to no purpose, I
attended a performance of La Dame Blanche, sincerely hoping to find the whole performance first
class. But not until much later did I fully realise how wretched was the quality of all these
singers. I selected one of them, a bass named Graf, who was singing Gaveston. When in due course
he made his debut at Magdeburg, he provoked so much well-founded dissatisfaction, that I could
not find a word to say in reply to the mockery which this acquisition brought upon me.

But the small success with which the real object of my tour was attended was counterbalanced
by the pleasantness of the journey itself. The trip through Eger, over the Fichtel mountains,
and the entry into Bayreuth, gloriously illuminated by the setting sun, have remained happy
memories to this day.

My next goal was Nuremberg, where my sister Clara and her husband were acting, and from whom
I might reckon on sound information as to the object of my search. It was particularly nice
to be hospitably received in my sister's house, where I hoped to revive my somewhat exhausted
means of travel. In this hope I reckoned chiefly upon the sale of a snuff-box presented to
me by a friend, which I had secret reasons to suppose was made of platinum. To this I could
add a gold signet-ring, given me by my friend Apel for composing the overture to his Columbus.
The value of the snuff-box unfortunately proved to be entirely imaginary; but by pawning these
two jewels, the only ones I had left, I hoped to provide myself with the bare necessaries for
continuing my journey to Frankfort. It was to this place and the Rhine district that the information
I had gathered led me to direct my steps. Before leaving I persuaded my sister and brother-in-law
to accept engagements in Magdeburg; but I still lacked a first tenor and a soprano, whom hitherto
I had altogether failed to discover.

My stay in Nuremberg was most agreeably prolonged through a renewed meeting with Schroder-Devrient,
who just at that time was fulfilling a short engagement in that town. Meeting her again was
like seeing the clouds disperse, which, since our last meeting, had darkened my artistic horizon.

The Nuremberg operatic company had a very limited repertoire. Besides Fidelio they could produce
nothing save Die Schweizerfamilie, a fact about which this great singer complained, as this
was one of her first parts sung in early youth, for which she was hardly any longer suited,
and which, in addition, she had played ad nauseam. I also looked forward to the performance
of Die Schweizerfamilie with misgivings, and even with anxiety, for I feared lest this tame
opera and the old- fashioned sentimental part of Emmeline would weaken the great impression
the public, as well as myself, had formed up to that moment of the work of this sublime artist.
Imagine, therefore, how deeply moved and astonished I was, on the evening of the performance,
to find that it was in this very part that I first realised the truly transcendental genius
of this extraordinary woman. That anything so great as her interpretation of the character
of the Swiss maiden could not be handed down to posterity as a monument for all time can only
be looked upon as one of the most sublime sacrifices demanded by dramatic art, and as one of
its highest manifestations. When, therefore, such phenomena appear, we cannot hold them in
too great reverence, nor look upon them as too sacred.

Apart from all these new experiences which were to become of so much value to my whole life
and to my artistic development, the impressions I received at Nuremberg, though they were apparently
trivial in their origin, left such indelible traces on my mind, that they revived within me
later on, though in quite a different and novel form.

My brother-in-law, Wolfram, was a great favourite with the Nuremberg theatrical world; he was
witty and sociable, and as such made himself much liked in theatrical circles. On this occasion
I received singularly delightful proofs of the spirit of extravagant gaiety manifested on these
evenings at the inn, in which I also took part. A master carpenter, named Lauermann, a little
thick-set man, no longer young, of comical appearance and gifted only with the roughest dialect,
was pointed out to me in one of the inns visited by our friends as one of those oddities who
involuntarily contributed most to the amusement of the local wags. Lauermann, it seems, imagined
himself an excellent singer, and as a result of this presumption, evinced interest only in
those in whom he thought he recognised a like talent. In spite of the fact that, owing to this
singular peculiarity, he became the butt of constant jest and scornful mockery, he never failed
to appear every evening among his laughter-loving persecutors. So often had he been laughed
at and hurt by their scorn, that it became very difficult to persuade him to give a display
of his artistic skill, and this at last could only be effected by artfully devised traps, so
laid as to appeal to his vanity. My arrival as an unknown stranger was utilised for a manoeuvre
of this kind. How poor was the opinion they held of the unfortunate mastersinger's judgment
was revealed when, to my great amazement, my brother-in-law introduced me to him as the great
Italian singer, Lablache. To his credit I must confess that Lauermann surveyed me for a long
time with incredulous distrust, and commented with cautious suspicion on my juvenile appearance,
but especially on the evidently tenor character of my voice. But the whole art of these tavern
associates and their principal enjoyment consisted in leading this poor enthusiast to believe
the incredible, a task on which they spared neither time nor pains.

My brother-in-law succeeded in making the carpenter believe that I, while receiving fabulous
sums for my performances, wished by a singular act of dissimulation, and by visiting public
inns, to withdraw from the general public; and that, moreover, when it came to a meeting between
'Lauermann' and 'Lablache,' the only real interest could be to hear Lauermann and not Lablache,
seeing that the former had nothing to learn from the latter, but only Lablache from him. So
singular was the conflict between incredulity, on the one hand, and keenly excited vanity on
the other, that finally the poor carpenter became really attractive to me. I began to play
the role assigned me with all the skill I could command, and after a couple of hours, which
were relieved by the strangest antics, we at last gained our end. The wondrous mortal, whose
flashing eyes had long been fixed on me in the greatest excitement, worked his muscles in the
peculiarly fantastic fashion which we are accustomed to associate with a music-making automaton,
the mechanism of which has been duly wound up: his lips quivered, his teeth gnashed, his eyes
rolled convulsively, until finally there broke forth, in a hoarse oily voice, an uncommonly
trivial street-ballad. Its delivery, accompanied by a regular movement of his outstretched
thumbs behind the ears, and during which his fat face glowed the brightest red, was unhappily
greeted with a wild burst of laughter from all present, which excited the unlucky master to
the most furious wrath. With studied cruelty this wrath was greeted by those, who until then
had shamelessly flattered him, with the most extravagant mockery, until the poor wretch at
last absolutely foamed with rage.

As he was leaving the inn amid a hail of curses from his infamous friends, an impulse of genuine
pity prompted me to follow him, that I might beg his forgiveness and seek in some way to pacify
him, a task all the more difficult since he was especially bitter against me as the latest
of his enemies, and the one who had so deeply deceived his eager hope of hearing the genuine
Lablache. Nevertheless, I succeeded in stopping him on the threshold; and now the riotous company
silently entered into an extraordinary conspiracy to induce Lauermann to sing again that very
evening. How they managed this I can as little remember as I can call to mind the effect of
the spirituous liquors I imbibed. In any case, I suspect that drink must eventually have been
the means of subduing Lauermann, just as it also rendered my own recollections of the wonderful
events of that prolonged evening at the inn extremely vague. After Lauermann had for the second
time suffered the same mockery, the whole company felt itself bound to accompany the unhappy
man to his home. They carried him thither in a wheelbarrow, which they found outside the house,
and in this he arrived, in triumph, at his own door, in one of those marvellous narrow alleys
peculiar to the old city. Frau Lauermann, who was aroused from slumber to receive her husband,
enabled us, by her torrent of curses, to form some idea of the nature of their marital and
domestic relations. Mockery of her husband's vocal talents was with her also a familiar theme;
but to this she now added the most dreadful reproaches for the worthless scamps who, by encouraging
him in this delusion, kept him from profitably following his trade, and even led him to such
scenes as the present one. Thereupon the pride of the suffering mastersinger reasserted itself;
for while his wife painfully assisted him to mount the stairs, he harshly denied her right
to sit in judgment upon his vocal gifts, and sternly ordered her to be silent. But even now
this wonderful night-adventure was by no means over. The entire swarm moved once more in the
direction of the inn. Before the house, however, we found a number of fellows congregated,
among them several workmen, against whom, owing to police regulations as to closing hours,
the doors were shut. But the regular guests of the house, who were of our party, and who were
on terms of old friendship with the host, thought that it was nevertheless permissible and
possible to demand entrance. The host was troubled at having to bar his door against friends,
whose voices he recognised; yet it was necessary to prevent the new arrivals from forcing a
way in with them. Out of this situation a mighty confusion arose, which, what with shouting
and clamour and an inexplicable growth in the number of the disputants, soon assumed a truly
demoniacal character. It seemed to me as though in a few moments the whole town would break
into a tumult, and I thought I should once more have to witness a revolution, the real origin
of which no man could comprehend. Then suddenly I heard some one fall, and, as though by magic,
the whole mass scattered in every direction. One of the regular guests, who was familiar with
an ancient Nuremberg boxing trick, desiring to put an end to the interminable riot and to cut
his way home through the crowd, gave one of the noisiest shouters a blow with his fist between
the eyes, laying him senseless on the ground, though without seriously injuring him. And this
it was that so speedily broke up the whole throng. Within little more than a minute of the
most violent uproar of hundreds of human voices, my brother-in-law and I were able to stroll
arm-in-arm through the moonlit streets, quietly jesting and laughing, on our way home; and
then it was that, to my amazement and relief, he informed me that he was accustomed to this
sort of life every evening.

At last, however, it became necessary seriously to attend to the purpose of my journey. Only
in passing did I touch at Wurzburg for a day. I remember nothing of the meeting with my relations
and acquaintance beyond the melancholy visit to Friederike Galvani already mentioned. On reaching
Frankfort I was obliged to seek at once the shelter of a decent hotel, in order to await there
the result of my solicitations for subsidies from the directorate of the Magdeburg theatre.
My hopes of securing the real stars of our operatic undertaking were formed with a view to
a season at Wiesbaden, where, I was told, a good operatic company was on the point of dissolution.
I found it extremely difficult to arrange the short journey thither; yet I managed to be present
at a rehearsal of Robert der Teufel, in which the tenor Freimuller distinguished himself. I
interviewed him at once, and found him willing to entertain my proposals for Magdeburg. We
concluded the necessary agreement, and I then returned with all speed to my headquarters, the
Weidenbusch Hotel in Frankfort. There I had to spend another anxious week, during which I waited
in vain for the necessary travelling expenses to arrive from Magdeburg. To kill time I had
recourse, among other things, to a large red pocket-book which I carried about with me in my
portmanteau, and in which I entered, with exact details of dates, etc., notes for my future
biography--the selfsame book which now lies before me to freshen my memory, and which I have
ever since added to at various periods of my life, without leaving any gaps. Through the neglect
of the Magdeburg managers my situation, which was already serious, became literally desperate,
when I made an acquisition in Frankfort which gave me almost more pleasure than I was able
to bear. I had been present at a production of the Zauberflote under the direction of Guhr,
then wonderfully renowned as 'a conductor of genius,' and was agreeably surprised at the truly
excellent quality of the company. It was, of course, useless to think of luring one of the
leading stars into my net; on the other hand, I saw clearly enough that the youthful Fraulein
Limbach, who sang the 'first boy's' part, possessed a desirable talent. She accepted my offer
of an engagement, and, indeed, seemed so anxious to be rid of her Frankfort engagement that
she resolved to escape from it surreptitiously. She revealed her plans to me, and begged me
to assist her in carrying them out; for, inasmuch as the directors might get wind of the affair,
there was no time to lose. At all events, the young lady assumed that I had abundant credit,
supplied for my official business journey by the Magdeburg theatre committee, whose praises
I had so diligently sung. But already I had been compelled to pledge my scanty travelling gear
in order to provide for my own departure. To this point I had persuaded the host, but now found
him by no means inclined to advance me the additional funds needed for carrying off a young
singer. To cloak the bad behaviour of my directors I was compelled to invent some tale of misfortune,
and to leave the astonished and indignant young lady behind. Heartily ashamed of this adventure,
I travelled through rain and storm via Leipzig, where I picked up my brown poodle, and reaching
Magdeburg, there resumed my work as musical director on the 1st of September.

The result of my business labours gave me but little joy. The director, it is true, proved
triumphantly that he had sent five whole golden louis to my address in Frankfort, and that
my tenor and the youthful lady-singer had also been provided with proper contracts, but not
with the fares and advances demanded. Neither of them came; only the basso Graf arrived with
pedantic punctuality from Karlsbad, and immediately provoked the chaff of our theatrical wags.
He sang at a rehearsal of the Schweizerfamilie with such a schoolmasterly drone that I completely
lost my composure. The arrival of my excellent brother-in-law Wolfram with my sister Clara
was of more advantage for musical comedy than for grand opera, and caused me considerable trouble
into the bargain; for, being honest folk and used to decent living, they speedily perceived
that, in spite of royal protection, the condition of the theatre was but very insecure, as
was natural under so unscrupulous a management as that of Bethmann, and recognised with alarm
that they had seriously compromised their family position. My courage had already begun to
sink when a happy chance brought us a young woman, Mme. Pollert (nee Zeibig), who was passing
through Magdeburg with her husband, an actor, in order to fulfil a special engagement in that
town; she was gifted with a beautiful voice, was a talented singer, and well suited for the
chief roles. Necessity had at last driven the directors to action, and at the eleventh hour
they sent for the tenor Freimuller. But I was particularly gratified when the love which had
arisen between him and young Limbach in Frankfort enabled the enterprising tenor to carry away
this singer, to whom I had behaved so miserably. Both arrived radiant with joy. Along with
them we engaged Mme. Pollert, who, in spite of her pretentiousness, met with favour from the
public. A well-trained and musically competent baritone, Herr Krug, afterwards the conductor
of a choir in Karlsruhe, had also been discovered, so that all at once I stood at the head
of a really good operatic company, among which the basso Graf could be fitted in only with
great difficulty, by being kept as much as possible in the background. We succeeded quickly
with a series of operatic performances which were by no means ordinary, and our repertory included
everything of this nature that had ever been written for the theatre. I was particularly pleased
with the presentation of Spohr's Jessonda, which was truly not without sublimity, and raised
us high in the esteem of all cultured lovers of music. I was untiring in my endeavours to discover
some means of elevating our performances above the usual level of excellence compatible with
the meagre resources of provincial theatres. I persistently fell foul of the director Bethmann
by strengthening my orchestra, which he had to pay; but, on the other hand, I won his complete
goodwill by strengthening the chorus and the theatre music, which cost him nothing, and which
lent such splendour to our presentations that subscriptions and audiences increased enormously.
For instance, I secured the regimental band, and also the military singers, who in the Prussian
army are admirably organised, and who assisted in our performances in return for free passes
to the gallery granted to their relatives. Thus I managed to furnish with the utmost completeness
the specially strong orchestral accompaniment demanded by the score of Bellini's Norma, and
was able to dispose of a body of male voices for the impressive unison portion of the male
chorus in the introduction of that work such as even the greatest theatres could rarely command.
In later years I was able to assure Auber, whom I often met over an ice in Tortoni's cafe in
Paris, that in his Lestocq I had been able to render the part of the mutinous soldiery, when
seduced into conspiracy, with an absolutely full number of voices, a fact for which he thanked
me with astonishment and delight.

Amid such circumstances of encouragement the composition of my Liebesverbot made rapid strides
towards completion. I intended the presentation of this piece for the benefit performance which
had been promised me as a means of defraying my expenses, and I worked hard in the hope of
improving my reputation, and at the same time of accomplishing something by no means less desirable,
and that was the betterment of my financial position. Even the few hours which I could snatch
from business to spend at Minna's side were devoted with unexampled zeal to the completion
of my score. My diligence moved even Minna's mother, who looked with some uneasiness upon our
love affair. She had remained over the summer on a visit to her daughter, and managed the house
for her. Owing to her interference a new and urgent anxiety had entered into our relations,
which pressed for serious settlement. It was natural that we should begin to think of what
it was all going to lead to. I must confess that the idea of marriage, especially in view of
my youth, filled me with dismay, and without indeed reflecting on the matter, or seriously
weighing its pros and cons, a naive and instinctive feeling prevented me even from considering
the possibility of a step which would have such serious consequences upon my whole life. Moreover,
our modest circumstances were in so alarming and uncertain a state that even Minna declared
that she was more anxious to see these improved than to get me to marry her. But she was also
driven to think of herself, and that promptly, for trouble arose with regard to her own position
in the Magdeburg theatre. There she had met with a rival in her own speciality, and as this
woman's husband became chief stage manager, and consequently had supreme power, she grew to
be a source of great danger. Seeing, therefore, that at this very moment Minna received advantageous
offers from the managers of the Konigstadt theatre in Berlin, then doing a splendid business,
she seized the opportunity to break off her connection with the Magdeburg theatre, and thus
plunged me, whom she did not appear to consider in the matter, into the depths of despair.
I could not hinder Minna from going to Berlin to fulfil a special engagement there, although
this was not in accordance with her agreement, and so she departed, leaving me behind, overcome
with grief and doubt as to the meaning of her conduct. At last, mad with passion, I wrote to
her urging her to return, and the better to move her and not to separate her fate from my own,
I proposed to her in a strictly formal manner, and hinted at the hope of early marriage. About
the same time my brother-in-law, Wolfram, having quarrelled with the director Bethmann and
cancelled his contract with him, also went to the Konigstadt theatre to fulfil a special engagement.
My good sister Clara, who had remained behind for a while amid the somewhat unpleasant conditions
of Magdeburg, soon perceived the anxious and troubled temper in which her otherwise cheerful
brother was rapidly consuming himself. One day she thought it advisable to show me a letter
from her husband, with news from Berlin, and especially concerning Minna, in which he earnestly
deplored my passion for this girl, who was acting quite unworthily of me. As she lodged at
his hotel, he was able to observe that not only the company she kept, but also her own conduct,
were perfectly scandalous. The extraordinary impression which this dreadful communication made
upon me decided me to abandon the reserve I had hitherto shown towards my relatives with regard
to my love affairs. I wrote to my brother-in-law in Berlin, telling him how matters stood with
me, and that my plans greatly depended on Minna, and further, how extremely important it was
for me to learn from him the indubitable truth concerning her of whom he had sent so evil an
account. From my brother-in-law, usually so dry and given to joking, I received a reply which
filled my heart to overflowing again. He confessed that he had accused Minna too hastily, and
regretted that he had allowed idle chatter to influence him in founding a charge, which, on
investigation, had proved to be altogether groundless and unjust; he declared, moreover, that
on nearer acquaintance and conversation with her he had been so fully convinced of the genuineness
and uprightness of her character, that he hoped with all his heart that I might see my way
to marry her. And now a storm raged in my heart. I implored Minna to return at once, and was
glad to learn that, for her part, she was not inclined to renew her engagement at the Berlin
theatre, as she had now acquired a more intimate knowledge of the life there, and found it
too frivolous. All that remained, then, was for me to facilitate the resumption of her Magdeburg
engagement. To this end, therefore, at a meeting of the theatre committee, I attacked the director
and his detested stage manager with such energy, and defended Minna against the wrong done
her by them both with such passion and fervour, that the other members, astonished at the frank
confession of my affection, yielded to my wishes without any further ado. And now I set off
by extra post in the depth of night and in dreadful winter weather to meet my returning sweetheart.
I greeted her with tears of deepest joy, and led her back in triumph to her cosy Magdeburg
home, already become so dear to me.

Meanwhile, as our two lives, thus severed for a while, were being drawn more and more closely
together, I finished the score of my Liebesverbot about New Year 1836. For the development
of my future plans I depended not a little upon the success of this work; and Minna herself
seemed not disinclined to yield to my hopes in this respect. We had reason to be concerned
as to how matters would pan out for us at the beginning of the spring, for this season is always
a bad one in which to start such precarious theatrical enterprises. In spite of royal support
and the participation of the theatre committee in the general management of the theatre, our
worthy director's state of perennial bankruptcy suffered no alteration, and it seemed as if
his theatrical undertaking could not possibly last much longer in any form. Nevertheless, with
the help of the really first-rate company of singers at my disposal, the production of my opera
was to mark a complete change in my unsatisfactory circumstances. With the view of recovering
the travelling expenses I had incurred during the previous summer, I was entitled to a benefit
performance. I naturally fixed this for the presentation of my own work, and did my utmost
so that this favour granted me by the directors should prove as inexpensive to them as possible.
As they would nevertheless be compelled to incur some expense in the production of the new
opera, I agreed that the proceeds of the first presentation should be left to them, while I
should claim only those of the second. I did not consider it altogether unsatisfactory that
the time for the rehearsals was postponed until the very end of the season, for it was reasonable
to suppose that our company, which was often greeted with unusual applause, would receive special
attention and favour from the public during its concluding performances. Unfortunately, however,
contrary to our expectations, we never reached the proper close of this season, which had been
fixed for the end of April; for already in March, owing to irregularity in the payment of salaries,
the most popular members of the company, having found better employment elsewhere, tendered
their resignations to the management, and the director, who was unable to raise the necessary
cash, was compelled to bow to the inevitable. Now, indeed, my spirits sank, for it seemed more
than doubtful whether my Liebesverbot would ever be produced at all. I owed it entirely to
the warm affection felt for me personally by all members of the opera company, that the singers
consented not only to remain until the end of March, but also to undertake the toil of studying
and rehearsing my opera, a task which, considering the very limited time, promised to be extremely
arduous. In the event of our having to give two representations, the time at our disposal was
so very short that, for all the rehearsals, we had but ten days before us. And since we were
concerned not with a light comedy or farce, but with a grand opera, and one which, in spite
of the trifling character of its music, contained numerous and powerful concerted passages,
the undertaking might have been regarded almost as foolhardy. Nevertheless, I built my hopes
upon the extraordinary exertions which the singers so willingly made in order to please me;
for they studied continuously, morning, noon, and night. But seeing that, in spite of all this,
it was quite impossible to attain to perfection, especially in the matter of words, in the
case of every one of these harassed performers, I reckoned further on my own acquired skill
as conductor to achieve the final miracle of success. The peculiar ability I possessed of helping
the singers and of making them, in spite of much uncertainty, seem to flow smoothly onwards,
was clearly demonstrated in our orchestral rehearsals, in which, by dint of constant prompting,
loud singing with the performers and vigorous directions as to necessary action, I got the
whole thing to run so easily that it seemed quite possible that the performance might be a
reasonable success after all. Unfortunately, we did not consider that in front of the public
all these drastic methods of moving the dramatic and musical machinery would be restricted
to the movements of my baton and to my facial expression. As a matter of fact the singers,
and especially the men, were so extraordinarily uncertain that from beginning to end their
embarrassment crippled the effectiveness of every one of their parts. Freimuller, the tenor,
whose memory was most defective, sought to patch up the lively and emotional character of his
badly learned rule of the madcap Luzio by means of routine work learned in Fra Diavolo and
Zampa, and especially by the aid of an enormously thick, brightly coloured and fluttering plume
of feathers. Consequently, as the directors failed to have the book of words printed in time,
it was impossible to blame the public for being in doubt as to the main outlines of the story,
seeing that they had only the sung words to guide them. With the exception of a few portions
played by the lady singers, which were favourably received, the whole performance, which I
had made to depend largely upon bold, energetic action and speech, remained but a musical shadow-play,
to which the orchestra contributed its own inexplicable effusions, sometimes with exaggerated
noise. As characteristic of the treatment of my tone-colour, I may mention that the band- master
of a Prussian military band, who, by the bye, had been well pleased with the performance, felt
it incumbent upon him to give me some well-meant hints for my future guidance, as to the manipulation
of the Turkish drum. Before I relate the further history of this wonderful work of my youth,
I will pause a moment briefly to describe its character, and especially its poetical elements.

Shakespeare's play, which I kept throughout in mind as the foundation of my story, was worked
out in the following manner:--

An unnamed king of Sicily leaves his country, as I suggest, for a journey to Naples, and hands
over to the Regent appointed--whom I simply call Friedrich, with the view of making him appear
as German as possible--full authority to exercise all the royal power in order to effect a
complete reform in the social habits of his capital, which had provoked the indignation of
the Council. At the opening of the play we see the servants of the public authority busily
employed either in shutting up or in pulling down the houses of popular amusement in a suburb
of Palermo, and in carrying off the inmates, including hosts and servants, as prisoners. The
populace oppose this first step, and much scuffling ensues. In the thickest of the throng the
chief of the sbirri, Brighella (basso-buffo), after a preliminary roll of drums for silence,
reads out the Regent's proclamation, according to which the acts just performed are declared
to be directed towards establishing a higher moral tone in the manners and customs of the people.
A general outburst of scorn and a mocking chorus meets this announcement. Luzio, a young nobleman
and juvenile scape-grace (tenor), seems inclined to thrust himself forward as leader of the
mob, and at once finds an occasion for playing a more active part in the cause of the oppressed
people on discovering his friend Claudio (also a tenor) being led away to prison. From him
he learns that, in pursuance of some musty old law unearthed by Friedrich, he is to suffer
the penalty of death for a certain love escapade in which he is involved. His sweetheart, union
with whom had been prevented by the enmity of their parents, has borne him a child. Friedrich's
puritanical zeal joins cause with the parents' hatred; he fears the worst, and sees no way
of escape save through mercy, provided his sister Isabella may be able, by her entreaties,
to melt the Regent's hard heart. Claudio implores his friend at once to seek out Isabella in
the convent of the Sisters of St. Elizabeth, which she has recently entered as novice. There,
between the quiet walls of the convent, we first meet this sister, in confidential intercourse
with her friend Marianne, also a novice. Marianne reveals to her friend, from whom she has
long been parted, the unhappy fate which has brought her to the place. Under vows of eternal
fidelity she had been persuaded to a secret liaison with a man of high rank. But finally, when
in extreme need she found herself not only forsaken, but threatened by her betrayer, she discovered
him to be the mightiest man in the state, none other than the King's Regent himself. Isabella's
indignation finds vent in impassioned words, and is only pacified by her determination to forsake
a world in which so vile a crime can go unpunished.-- When now Luzio brings her tidings of
her own brother's fate, her disgust at her brother's misconduct is turned at once to scorn
for the villainy of the hypocritical Regent, who presumes so cruelly to punish the comparatively
venial offence of her brother, which, at least, was not stained by treachery. Her violent outburst
imprudently reveals her to Luzio in a seductive aspect; smitten with sudden love, he urges
her to quit the convent for ever and to accept his hand. She contrives to check his boldness,
but resolves at once to avail herself of his escort to the Regent's court of justice.--Here
the trial scene is prepared, and I introduce it by a burlesque hearing of several persons charged
by the sbirro captain with offences against morality. The earnestness of the situation becomes
more marked when the gloomy form of Friedrich strides through the inrushing and unruly crowd,
commanding silence, and he himself undertakes the hearing of Claudio's case in the sternest
manner possible. The implacable judge is already on the point of pronouncing sentence when
Isabella enters, and requests, before them all, a private interview with the Regent. In this
interview she behaves with noble moderation towards the dreaded, yet despised man before her,
and appeals at first only to his mildness and mercy. His interruptions merely serve to stimulate
her ardour: she speaks of her brother's offence in melting accents, and implores forgiveness
for so human and by no means unpardonable a crime. Seeing the effect of her moving appeal,
she continues with increasing ardour to plead with the judge's hard and unresponsive heart,
which can certainly not have remained untouched by sentiments such as those which had actuated
her brother, and she calls upon his memory of these to support her desperate plea for pity.
At last the ice of his heart is broken. Friedrich, deeply stirred by Isabella's beauty, can
no longer contain himself, and promises to grant her petition at the price of her own love.
Scarcely has she become aware of the unexpected effect of her words when, filled with indignation
at such incredible villainy, she cries to the people through doors and windows to come in,
that she may unmask the hypocrite before the world. The crowd is already rushing tumultuously
into the hall of judgment, when, by a few significant hints, Friedrich, with frantic energy,
succeeds in making Isabella realise the impossibility of her plan. He would simply deny her
charge, boldly pretend that his offer was merely made to test her, and would doubtless be readily
believed so soon as it became only a question of rebutting a charge of lightly making love
to her. Isabella, ashamed and confounded, recognises the madness of her first step, and gnashes
her teeth in silent despair. While then Friedrich once more announces his stern resolve to
the people, and pronounces sentence on the prisoner, it suddenly occurs to Isabella, spurred
by the painful recollection of Marianne's fate, that what she has failed to procure by open
means she might possibly obtain by craft. This thought suffices to dispel her sorrow, and to
fill her with utmost gaiety. Turning to her sorrowing brother, her agitated friends, and the
perplexed crowd, she assures them all that she is ready to provide them with the most amusing
of adventures. She declares that the carnival festivities, which the Regent has just strictly
forbidden, are to be celebrated this year with unusual licence; for this dreaded ruler only
pretends to be so cruel, in order the more pleasantly to astonish them by himself taking a
merry part in all that he has just forbidden. They all believe that she has gone mad, and Friedrich
in particular reproves her incomprehensible folly with passionate severity. But a few words
on her part suffice to transport the Regent himself with ecstasy; for in a whisper she promises
to grant his desire, and that on the following night she will send him such a message as shall
ensure his happiness.--And so ends the first act in a whirl of excitement.

We learn the nature of the heroine's hastily formed plan at the beginning of the second act,
in which she visits her brother in his cell, with the object of discovering whether he is worthy
of rescue. She reveals Friedrich's shameful proposal to him, and asks if he would wish to save
his life at the price of his sister's dishonour. Then follow Claudio's fury and fervent declaration
of his readiness to die; whereupon, bidding farewell to his sister, at least for this life,
he makes her the bearer of the most tender messages to the dear girl whom he leaves behind.
After this, sinking into a softer mood, the unhappy man declines from a state of melancholy
to one of weakness. Isabella, who had already determined to inform him of his rescue, hesitates
in dismay when she sees him fall in this way from the heights of noble enthusiasm to a muttered
confession of a love of life still as strong as ever, and even to a stammering query as to
whether the suggested price of his salvation is altogether impossible. Disgusted, she springs
to her feet, thrusts the unworthy man from her, and declares that to the shame of his death
he has further added her most hearty contempt. After having handed him over again to his gaoler,
her mood once more changes swiftly to one of wanton gaiety. True, she resolves to punish the
waverer by leaving him for a time in uncertainty as to his fate; but stands firm by her resolve
to rid the world of the abominable seducer who dared to dictate laws to his fellow-men. She
tells Marianne that she must take her place at the nocturnal rendezvous, at which Friedrich
so treacherously expected to meet her (Isabella), and sends Friedrich an invitation to this
meeting. In order to entangle the latter even more deeply in ruin, she stipulates that he must
come disguised and masked, and fixes the rendezvous in one of those pleasure resorts which
he has just suppressed. To the madcap Luzio, whom she also desires to punish for his saucy
suggestion to a novice, she relates the story of Friedrich's proposal, and her pretended intention
of complying, from sheer necessity, with his desires. This she does in a fashion so incomprehensively
light-hearted that the otherwise frivolous man, first dumb with amazement, ultimately yields
to a fit of desperate rage. He swears that, even if the noble maiden herself can endure such
shame, he will himself strive by every means in his power to avert it, and would prefer to
set all Palermo on fire and in tumult rather than allow such a thing to happen. And, indeed,
he arranges things in such a manner that on the appointed evening all his friends and acquaintances
assemble at the end of the Corso, as though for the opening of the prohibited carnival procession.
At nightfall, as things are beginning to grow wild and merry, Luzio appears, and sings an extravagant
carnival song, with the refrain:

    Who joins us not in frolic jest 
    Shall have a dagger in his breast;

by which means he seeks to stir the crowd to bloody revolt. When a band of sbirri approaches,
under Brighella's leadership, to scatter the gay throng, the mutinous project seems on the
point of being accomplished. But for the present Luzio prefers to yield, and to scatter about
the neighbourhood, as he must first of all win the real leader of their enterprise: for here
was the spot which Isabella had mischievously revealed to him as the place of her pretended
meeting with the Regent. For the latter Luzio therefore lies in wait. Recognising him in an
elaborate disguise, he blocks his way, and as Friedrich violently breaks loose, is on the point
of following him with shouts and drawn sword, when, on a sign from Isabella, who is hidden
among some bushes, he is himself stopped and led away. Isabella then advances, rejoicing in
the thought of having restored the betrayed Marianne to her faithless spouse. Believing that
she holds in her hand the promised pardon for her brother, she is just on the point of abandoning
all thought of further vengeance when, breaking the seal, to her intense horror she recognises
by the light of a torch that the paper contains but a still more severe order of execution,
which, owing to her desire not to disclose to her brother the fact of his pardon, a mere chance
had now delivered into her hand, through the agency of the bribed gaoler. After a hard fight
with the tempestuous passion of love, and recognising his helplessness against this enemy of
his peace, Friedrich has in fact already resolved to face his ruin, even though as a criminal,
yet still as a man of honour. An hour on Isabella's breast, and then--his own death by the
same law whose implacable severity shall also claim Claudio's life. Isabella, perceiving in
this conduct only a further proof of the hypocrite's villainy, breaks out once more into a
tempest of agonised despair. Upon her cry for immediate revolt against the scoundrelly tyrant,
the people collect together and form a motley and passionate crowd. Luzio, who also returns,
counsels the people with stinging bitterness to pay no heed to the woman's fury; he points
out that she is only tricking them, as she has already tricked him--for he still believes in
her shameless infidelity. Fresh confusion; increased despair of Isabella; suddenly from the
background comes the burlesque cry of Brighella for help, who, himself suffering from the pangs
of jealousy, has by mistake arrested the masked Regent, and thus led to the latter's discovery.
Friedrich is recognised, and Marianne, trembling on his breast, is also unmasked. Amazement,
indignation! Cries of joy burst forth all round; the needful explanations are quickly given,
and Friedrich sullenly demands to be set before the judgment-seat of the returning King. Claudio,
released from prison by the jubilant populace, informs him that the sentence of death for crimes
of love is not intended for all times; messengers arrive to announce the unexpected arrival
in harbour of the King; it is resolved to march in full masked procession to meet the beloved
Prince, and joyously to pay him homage, all being convinced that he will heartily rejoice to
see how ill the gloomy puritanism of Germany is suited to his hot- blooded Sicily. Of him it
is said:

Your merry festals please him more Than gloomy laws or legal lore.

Friedrich, with his freshly affianced wife, Marianne, must lead the procession, followed by
Luzio and the novice, who is for ever lost to the convent.

These spirited and, in many respects, boldly devised scenes I had clothed in suitable language
and carefully written verse, which had already been noticed by Laube. The police at first took
exception to the title of the work, which, had I not changed it, would have led to the complete
failure of my plans for its presentation. It was the week before Easter, and the theatre was
consequently forbidden to produce jolly, or at least frivolous, plays during this period. Luckily
the magistrate, with whom I had to treat concerning the matter, did not show any inclination
to examine the libretto himself; and when I assured him that it was modelled upon a very serious
play of Shakespeare's, the authorities contented themselves merely with changing the somewhat
startling title. Die Novize van Palermo, which was the new title, had nothing suspicious about
it, and was therefore approved as correct without further scruple. I fared quite otherwise
in Leipzig, where I attempted to introduce this work in the place of my Feen, when the latter
was withdrawn. The director, Ringelhardt, whom I sought to win over to my cause by assigning
the part of Marianne to his daughter, then making her debut in opera, chose to reject my work
on the apparently very reasonable grounds that the tendency of the theme displeased him. He
assured me that, even if the Leipzig magistrates had consented to its production--a fact concerning
which his high esteem for that body led him to have serious doubts--he himself, as a conscientious
father, could certainly not permit his daughter to take part in it.

Strange to say, I suffered nothing from the suspicious nature of the libretto of my opera on
the occasion of its production in Magdeburg; for, as I have said, thanks to the unintelligible
manner in which it was produced, the story remained a complete mystery to the public. This
circumstance, and the fact that no opposition had been raised on the ground of its TENDENCY,
made a second performance possible, and as nobody seemed to care one way or the other, no objections
were raised. Feeling sure that my opera had made no impression, and had left the public completely
undecided about its merits, I reckoned that, in view of this being the farewell performance
of our opera company, we should have good, not to say large, takings. Consequently I did not
hesitate to charge 'full' prices for admittance. I cannot rightly judge whether, up to the
commencement of the overture, any people had taken their places in the auditorium; but about
a quarter of an hour before the time fixed for beginning, I saw only Mme. Gottschalk and her
husband, and, curiously enough, a Polish Jew in full dress, seated in the stalls. Despite this,
I was still hoping for an increase in the audience, when suddenly the most incredible commotion
occurred behind the scenes. Herr Pollert, the husband of my prima donna (who was acting Isabella),
was assaulting Schreiber, the second tenor, a very young and handsome man taking the part of
Claudio, and against whom the injured husband had for some time been nursing a secret rancour
born of jealousy. It appeared that the singer's husband, who had surveyed the theatre from
behind the drop-scene with me, had satisfied himself as to the style of the audience, and decided
that the longed-for hour was at hand when, without injuring the operatic enterprise, he could
wreak vengeance on his wife's lover. Claudio was so severely used by him that the unfortunate
fellow had to seek refuge in the dressing-room, his face covered with blood. Isabella was told
of this, and rushed despairingly to her raging spouse, only to be so soundly cuffed by him
that she went into convulsions. The confusion that ensued amongst the company soon knew no
bounds: they took sides in the quarrel, and little was wanting for it to turn into a general
fight, as everybody seemed to regard this unhappy evening as particularly favourable for the
paying off of any old scores and supposed insults. This much was clear, that the couple suffering
from the effects of Herr Pollert's conjugal resentment were unfit to appear that evening. The
manager was sent before the drop-scene to inform the small and strangely assorted audience
gathered in the theatre that, owing to unforeseen circumstances, the representation would not
take place.

This was the end of my career as director and composer in Magdeburg, which in the beginning
had seemed so full of promise and had been started at the cost of considerable sacrifice. The
serenity of art now gave way completely before the stern realities of life. My position gave
food for meditation, and the outlook was not a cheerful one. All the hopes that I and Minna
had founded upon the success of my work had been utterly destroyed. My creditors, who had been
appeased by the anticipation of the expected harvest, lost faith in my talents, and now counted
solely on obtaining bodily possession of me, which they endeavoured to do by speedily instituting
legal proceedings. Now that every time I came home I found a summons nailed to my door, my
little dwelling in the Breiter Weg became unbearable; I avoided going there, especially since
my brown poodle, who had hitherto enlivened this retreat, had vanished, leaving no trace. This
I looked upon as a bad sign, indicating my complete downfall.

At this time Minna, with her truly comforting assurance and firmness of bearing, was a tower
of strength to me and the one thing I had left to fall back upon. Always full of resource,
she had first of all provided for her own future, and was on the point of signing a not unfavourable
contract with the directors of the theatre at Konigsberg in Prussia. It was now a question
of finding me an appointment in the same place as musical conductor; this post was already
filled. The Konigsberg director, however, gathering from our correspondence that Minna's acceptance
of the engagement depended upon the possibility of my being taken on at the same theatre, held
out the prospect of an approaching vacancy, and expressed his willingness to allow it to be
filled by me. On the strength of this assurance it was decided that Minna should go on to Konigsberg
and pave the way for my arrival there.

Ere these plans could be carried out, we had still to spend a time of dreadful and acute anxiety,
which I shall never forget, within the walls of Magdeburg. It is true I made one more personal
attempt in Leipzig to improve my position, on which occasion I entered into the transactions
mentioned above with the director of the theatre regarding my new opera. But I soon realised
that it was out of the question for me to remain in my native town, and in the disquieting
proximity of my family, from which I was restlessly anxious to get away. My excitability and
depression were noticed by my relations. My mother entreated me, whatever else I might decide
to do, on no account to be drawn into marriage while still so young. To this I made no reply.
When I took my leave, Rosalie accompanied me to the head of the stairs. I spoke of returning
as soon as I had attended to certain important business matters, and wanted to wish her a hurried
good-bye: she grasped my hand, and gazing into my face, exclaimed, "God alone knows when I
shall see you again!" This cut me to the heart, and I felt conscience-stricken. The fact that
she was expressing the presentiment she felt of her early death I only realised when, barely
two years later, without having seen her again, I received the news that she had died very
suddenly.

I spent a few more weeks with Minna in the strictest retirement in Magdeburg: she endeavoured
to the best of her ability to relieve the embarrassment of my position. In view of our approaching
separation, and the length of time we might be parted, I hardly left her side, our only relaxation
being the walks we took together round the outskirts of the town. Anxious forebodings weighed
upon us; the May sun which lit the sad streets of Magdeburg, as if in mockery of our forlorn
condition, was one day more clouded over than I have ever seen it since, and filled me with
a positive dread. On our way home from one of these walks, as we were approaching the bridge
crossing the Elbe, we caught sight of a man flinging himself from it into the water beneath.
We ran to the bank, called for help, and persuaded a miller, whose mill was situated on the
river, to hold out a rake to the drowning man, who was being swept in his direction by the
current. With indescribable anxiety we waited for the decisive moment--saw the sinking man
stretch out his hands towards the rake, but he failed to grasp it, and at the same moment disappeared
under the mill, never to be seen again. On the morning that I accompanied Minna to the stage-coach
to bid her a most sorrowful farewell, the whole population was pouring from one of the gateways
of the town towards a big field, to witness the execution of a man condemned to be put to death
on the wheel 'from below.'

[Footnote: Durch das Rod van unten. The punishment of the wheel was usually inflicted upon
murderers, incendiaries, highwaymen and church robbers. There were two methods of inflicting
this: (1) 'from above downwards' (von oben nach unten), in which the condemned man was despatched
instantly owing to his neck getting broken from the start; and (2) 'from below upwards' (von
unten nach oben), which is the method referred to above, and in which all the limbs of the
victim were broken previous to his body being actually twisted through the spokes of the wheel.--Editor
]

The culprit was a soldier who had murdered his sweetheart in a fit of jealousy. When, later
in the day, I sat down to my last dinner at the inn, I heard the dreadful details of the Prussian
mode of execution being discussed on all sides. A young magistrate, who was a great lover of
music, told us about a conversation he had had with the executioner, who had been procured
from Halle, and with whom he had discussed the most humane method of hastening the death of
the victim; in telling us about him, he recalled the elegant dress and manners of this ill-
omened person with a shudder.

These were the last impressions I carried away from the scene of my first artistic efforts
and of my attempts at earning an independent livelihood. Often since then on my departure from
places where I had expected to find prosperity, and to which I knew I should never return,
those impressions have recurred to my mind with singular persistence. I have always had much
the same feelings upon leaving any place where I had stayed in the hope of improving my position.

Thus I arrived in Berlin for the first time on the 18th May, 1836, and made acquaintance with
the peculiar features of that pretentious royal capital. While my position was an uncertain
one, I sought a modest shelter at the Crown Prince in the Konigstrasse, where Minna had stayed
a few months before. I found a friend on whom I could rely when I came across Laube again,
who, while awaiting his verdict, was busying himself with private and literary work in Berlin.
He was much interested in the fate of my work Liebesverbot, and advised me to turn my present
situation to account for the purpose of obtaining the production of this opera at the Konigstadt
theatre. This theatre was under the direction of one of the most curious creatures in Berlin:
he was called 'Cerf,' and the title of Commissionsrath had been conferred upon him by the King
of Prussia. To account for the favours bestowed upon him by royalty, many reasons of a not
very edifying nature were circulated. Through this royal patronage he had succeeded in extending
considerably the privileges already enjoyed by the suburban theatre. The decline of grand opera
at the Theatre Royal had brought light opera, which was performed with great success at the
Konigstadt theatre, into public favour. The director, puffed up by success, openly laboured
under the delusion that he was the right man in the right place, and expressed his entire agreement
with those who declared that one could only expect a theatre to be successfully managed by
common and uneducated men, and continued to cling to his blissful and boundless state of ignorance
in the most amusing manner. Relying absolutely upon his own insight, he had assumed an entirely
dictatorial attitude towards the officially appointed artists of his theatre, and allowed himself
to deal with them according to his likes and dislikes. I seemed destined to be favoured by
this mode of procedure: at my very first visit Cerf expressed his satisfaction with me, but
wished to make use of me as a 'tenor.' He offered no objection whatever to my request for the
production of my opera, but, on the contrary, promised to have it staged immediately. He seemed
particularly anxious to appoint me conductor of the orchestra. As he was on the point of changing
his operatic company, he foresaw that his present conductor, Glaser, the composer of Adlershorst,
would hinder his plans by taking the part of the older singers: he was therefore anxious to
have me associated with his theatre, that he might have some one to support him who was favourably
disposed towards the new singers.

All this sounded so plausible, that I could scarcely be blamed
for believing that the wheel of fortune had taken a favourable
 turn for me, and for feeling a sense of lightheartedness at the
thought of such rosy prospects. I had scarcely allowed myself the
few modifications in my manner of living which these improved
circumstances seemed to justify, ere it was made clear to me that
my hopes were built upon sand. I was filled with positive dread
when I soon fully realised how nearly Cerf had come to defrauding
me, merely it would seem for his own amusement. After the manner
of despots, he had given his favours personally and
autocratically; the withdrawal and annulment of his promises,
however, he made known to me through his servants and
secretaries, thus placing his strange conduct towards me in the
light of the inevitable result of his dependence upon
officialdom.

As Cerf wished to rid himself of me without even offering me compensation, I was obliged to
try to come to some understanding regarding all that had been definitely arranged between us,
and this with the very people against whom he had previously warned me and had wanted me to
side with him. The conductor, stage manager, secretary, etc., had to make it clear to me that
my wishes could not be satisfied, and that the director owed me no compensation whatever for
the time he had made me waste while awaiting the fulfilment of his promises. This unpleasant
experience has been a source of pain to me ever since.

Owing to all this my position was very much worse than it had been before. Minna wrote to me
frequently from Konigsberg, but she had nothing encouraging to tell me with regard to my hopes
in that direction. The director of the theatre there seemed unable to come to any clear understanding
with his conductor, a circumstance which I was afterwards able to understand, but which at
the time appeared to me inexplicable, and made my chance of obtaining the coveted appointment
seem exceedingly remote. It seemed certain, however, that the post would be vacant in the autumn,
and as I was drifting about aimlessly in Berlin and refused for a moment to entertain the thought
of returning to Leipzig, I snatched at this faint hope, and in imagination soared above the
Berlin quicksands to the safety of the harbour on the Baltic.

I only succeeded in doing so, however, after I had struggled
 through difficult and serious inward conflicts to which my
relations with Minna gave rise. An incomprehensible feature in
the character of this otherwise apparently simple-minded woman
had thrown my young heart into a turmoil. A good-natured, well-
to-do tradesman of Jewish extraction, named Schwabe, who till
that time had been established in Magdeburg, made friendly
advances to me in Berlin, and I soon discovered that his sympathy
was chiefly due to the passionate interest which he had conceived
for Minna. It afterwards became clear to me that an intimacy had
existed between this man and Minna, which in itself could hardly
be considered as a breach of faith towards me, since it had ended
in a decided repulse of my rival's courtship in my favour. But
the fact of this episode having been kept so secret that I had
not had the faintest idea of it before, and also the suspicion I
could not avoid harbouring that Minna's comfortable circumstances
were in part due to this man's friendship, filled me with gloomy
misgivings. But as I have said, although I could find no real
cause to complain of infidelity, I was distracted and alarmed,
and was at last driven to the half-desperate resolve of regaining
my balance in this respect by obtaining complete possession of
Minna. It seemed to me as though my stability as a citizen as
well as my professional success would be assured by a recognised
union with Minna. The two years spent in the theatrical world
had, in fact, kept me in a constant state of distraction, of
which in my heart of hearts I was most painfully conscious. I
realised vaguely that I was on the wrong path; I longed for peace
and quiet, and hoped to find these most effectually by getting
married, and so putting an end to the state of things that had
become the source of so much anxiety to me.

It was not surprising that Laube noticed by my untidy, passionate, and wasted appearance that
something unusual was amiss with me. It was only in his company, which I always found comforting,
that I gained the only impressions of Berlin which compensated me in any way for my misfortunes.
The most important artistic experience I had, came to me through the performance of Ferdinand
Cortez, conducted by Spontini himself, the spirit of which astonished me more than anything
I had ever heard before. Though the actual production, especially as regards the chief characters,
who as a whole could not be regarded as belonging to the flower of Berlin opera, left me unmoved,
and though the effect never reached a point that could be even distantly compared to that produced
upon me by Schroder-Devrient, yet the exceptional precision, fire, and richly organised rendering
of the whole was new to me. I gained a fresh insight into the peculiar dignity of big theatrical
representations, which in their several parts could, by well-accentuated rhythm, be made to
attain the highest pinnacle of art. This extraordinarily distinct impression took a drastic
hold of me, and above all served to guide me in my conception of Rienzi, so that, speaking
from an artistic point of view, Berlin may be said to have left its traces on my development.

For the present, however, my chief concern was to extricate myself from my extremely helpless
position. I was determined to turn my steps to Konigsberg, and communicated my decision, and
the hopes founded upon it, to Laube. This excellent friend, without further inquiry, made a
point of exerting his energies to free me from my present state of despair, and to help me
to reach my next destination, an object which, through the assistance of several of his friends,
he succeeded in accomplishing. When he said good-bye to me, Laube with sympathetic foresight
warned me, should I succeed in my desired career of musical conductor, not to allow myself
to be entangled in the shallowness of stage life, and advised me, after fatiguing rehearsals,
instead of going to my sweetheart, to take a serious book in hand, in order that my greater
gifts might not go uncultivated. I did not tell him that by taking an early and decisive step
in this direction I intended to protect myself effectually against the dangers of theatrical
intrigues. On the 7th of July, therefore, I started on what was at that time an extremely troublesome
and fatiguing journey to the distant town of Konigsberg.

It seemed to me as though I were leaving the world, as I
travelled on day after day through the desert marches. Then
followed a sad and humiliating impression of Konigsberg, where,
in one of the poorest-looking suburbs, Tragheim, near the
theatre, and in a lane such as one would expect to find in a
 village, I found the ugly house in which Minna lodged. The
friendly and quiet kindness of manner, however, which was
peculiar to her, soon made me feel at home. She was popular at
the theatre, and was respected by the managers and actors, a fact
which seemed to augur well for her betrothed, the part I was now
openly to assume.

Though as yet there seemed no distinct prospect of my getting the appointment I had come for,
yet we agreed that I could hold out a little longer, and that the matter would certainly be
arranged in the end. This was also the opinion of the eccentric Abraham Moller, a worthy citizen
of Konigsberg, who was devoted to the theatre, and who took a very friendly interest in Minna,
and finally also in me. This man, who was already well advanced in life, belonged to the type
of theatre lovers now probably completely extinct in Germany, but of whom so much is recorded
in the history of actors of earlier times. One could not spend an hour in the company of this
man, who at one time had gone in for the most reckless speculations, without having to listen
to his account of the glory of the stage in former times, described in most lively terms. As
a man of means he had at one time made the acquaintance of nearly all the great actors and
actresses of his day, and had even known how to win their friendship. Through too great a liberality
he unfortunately found himself in reduced circumstances, and was now obliged to procure the
means to satisfy his craving for the theatre and his desire to protect those belonging to it
by entering into all kinds of strange business transactions, in which, without running any
real risk, he felt there was something to be gained. He was accordingly only able to afford
the theatre a very meagre support, but one which was quite in keeping with its decrepit condition.

This strange man, of whom the theatre director, Anton Hubsch, stood to a certain extent in
awe, undertook to procure me my appointment. The only circumstance against me was the fact
that Louis Schubert, the famous musician whom I had known from very early times as the first
violoncellist of the Magdeburg orchestra, had come to Konigsberg from Riga, where the theatre
had been closed for a time, and where he had left his wife, in order to fill the post of musical
conductor here until the new theatre in Riga was opened, and he could return. The reopening
of the Riga theatre, which had already been fixed for the Easter of this year, had been postponed,
and he was now anxious not to leave Konigsberg. Since Schubert was a thorough master in his
art, and since his choosing to remain or go depended entirely on circumstances over which he
had no control, the theatre director found himself in the embarrassing position of having to
secure some one who would be willing to wait to enter upon his appointment till Schubert's
business called him away. Consequently a young musical conductor who was anxious to remain
in Konigsberg at any price could but be heartily welcomed as a reserve and substitute in case
of emergency. Indeed, the director declared himself willing to give me a small retaining fee
till the time should arrive for my definite entrance upon my duties.

Schubert, on the contrary, was furious at my arrival; there was no longer any necessity for
his speedy return to Riga, since the reopening of the theatre there had been postponed indefinitely.
Moreover, he had a special interest in remaining in Konigsberg, as he had conceived a passion
for the prima donna there, which considerably lessened his desire to return to his wife. So
at the last moment he clung to his Konigsberg post with great eagerness, regarded me as his
deadly enemy, and, spurred on by his instinct of self-preservation, used every means in his
power to make my stay in Konigsberg, and the already painful position I occupied while awaiting
his departure, a veritable hell to me.

While in Magdeburg I had been on the friendliest footing with both musicians and singers, and
had been shown the greatest consideration by the public, I here found I had to defend myself
on all sides against the most mortifying ill-will. This hostility towards me, which soon made
itself apparent, contributed in no small degree to make me feel as though in coming to Konigsberg
I had gone into exile. In spite of my eagerness, I realised that under the circumstances my
marriage with Minna would prove a hazardous undertaking. At the beginning of August the company
went to Memel for a time, to open the summer season there, and I followed Minna a few days
later. We went most of the way by sea, and crossed the Kurische Haff in a sailing vessel in
bad weather with the wind against us--one of the most melancholy crossings I have ever experienced.
As we passed the thin strip of sand that divides this bay from the Baltic Sea, the castle of
Runsitten, where Hoffmann laid the scene of one of his most gruesome tales (Das Majorat), was
pointed out to me. The fact that in this desolate neighbourhood, of all places in the world,
I should after so long a lapse of time be once more brought in contact with the fantastic impressions
of my youth, had a singular and depressing effect on my mind. The unhappy sojourn in Memel,
the lamentable role I played there, everything in short, contributed to make me find my only
consolation in Minna, who, after all, was the cause of my having placed myself in this unpleasant
position. Our friend Abraham followed us from Konigsberg and did all kinds of queer things
to promote my interests, and was obviously anxious to put the director and conductor at variance
with each other. One day Schubert, in consequence of a dispute with Hubsch on the previous
night, actually declared himself too unwell to attend a rehearsal of Euryanthe, in order to
force the manager to summon me suddenly to take his place. In doing this my rival maliciously
hoped that as I was totally unprepared to conduct this difficult opera, which was seldom played,
I would expose my incapacity in a manner most welcome to his hostile intentions. Although I
had never really had a score of Euryanthe before me, his wish was so little gratified, that
he elected to get well for the representation in order to conduct it himself, which he would
not have done if it had been found necessary to cancel the performance on account of my incompetence.
In this wretched position, vexed in mind, exposed to the severe climate, which even on summer
evenings struck me as horribly cold, and occupied merely in warding off the most painful troubles
of life, my time, as far as any professional advancement was concerned, was completely lost.
At last, on our return to Konigsberg, and particularly under the guardianship of Moller, the
question as to what was to be done was more earnestly considered. Finally, Minna and I were
offered a fairly good engagement in Danzig, through the influence of my brother-in-law Wolfram
and his wife, who had gone there.

Moller seized this opportunity to induce the director Hubsch, who was anxious not to lose Minna,
to sign a contract including us both, and by which it was understood that under any circumstances
I should be officially appointed as conductor at his theatre from the following Easter. Moreover,
for our wedding, a benefit performance was promised, for which we chose Die Stumme von Portici,
to be conducted by me in person. For, as Moller remarked, it was absolutely necessary for us
to get married, and to have a due celebration of the event; there was no getting out of it.
Minna made no objection, and all my past endeavours and resolutions seemed to prove that my
one desire was to take anchor in the haven of matrimony. In spite of this, however, a strange
conflict was going on within me at this time. I had become sufficiently intimate with Minna's
life and character to realise the wide difference between our two natures as fully as the important
step I was about to take necessitated; but my powers of judgment were not yet sufficiently matured.

My future wife was the child of poor parents, natives of Oederan in the Erzgebirge in Saxony.
Her father was no ordinary man; he possessed enormous vitality, but in his old age showed traces
of some feebleness of mind. In his young days he had been a trumpeter in Saxony, and in this
capacity had taken part in a campaign against the French, and had also been present at the
battle of Wagram. He afterwards became a mechanic, and took up the trade of manufacturing cards
for carding wool, and as he invented an improvement in the process of their production, he
is said to have made a very good business of it for some time. A rich manufacturer of Chemnitz
once gave him a large order to be delivered at the end of the year: the children, whose pliable
fingers had already proved serviceable in this respect, had to work hard day and night, and
in return the father promised them an exceptionally happy Christmas, as he expected to get
a large sum of money. When the longed-for time arrived, however, he received the announcement
of his client's bankruptcy. The goods that had already been delivered were lost, and the material
that remained on his hands there was no prospect of selling. The family never succeeded in
recovering from the state of confusion into which this misfortune had thrown them; they went
to Dresden, where the father hoped to find remunerative employment as a skilled mechanic, especially
in the manufacture of pianos, of which he supplied separate parts. He also brought away with
him a large quantity of the fine wire which had been destined for the manufacture of the cards,
and which he hoped to be able to sell at a profit. The ten-year-old Minna was commissioned
to sell separate lots of it to the milliners for making flowers. She would set out with a heavy
basketful of wire, and had such a gift for persuading people to buy that she soon disposed
of the whole supply to the best advantage. From this time the desire was awakened in her to
be of active use to her impoverished family, and to earn her own living as soon as possible,
in order not to be a burden on her parents. As she grew up and developed into a strikingly
beautiful woman, she attracted the attention of men at a very early age. A certain Herr von
Einsiedel fell passionately in love with her, and took advantage of the inexperienced young
girl when she was off her guard. Her family was thrown into the utmost consternation, and only
her mother and elder sister could be told of the terrible position in which Minna found herself.
Her father, from whose anger the worst consequences were to be feared, was never informed that
his barely seventeen-year-old daughter had become a mother, and under conditions that had threatened
her life, had given birth to a girl. Minna, who could obtain no redress from her seducer, now
felt doubly called upon to earn her own livelihood and leave her father's house. Through the
influence of friends, she had been brought into contact with an amateur theatrical society:
while acting in a performance given there, she attracted the notice of members of the Royal
Court Theatre, and in particular drew the attention of the director of the Dessau Court Theatre,
who was present, and who immediately offered her an engagement. She gladly caught at this way
of escape from her trying position, as it opened up the possibility of a brilliant stage career,
and of some day being able to provide amply for her family. She had not the slightest passion
for the stage, and utterly devoid as she was of any levity or coquetry, she merely saw in a
theatrical career the means of earning a quick, and possibly even a rich, livelihood. Without
any artistic training, the theatre merely meant for her the company of actors and actresses.
Whether she pleased or not seemed of importance in her eyes only in so far as it affected her
realisation of a comfortable independence. To use all the means at her disposal to assure this
end seemed to her as necessary as it is for a tradesman to expose his goods to the best advantage.

The friendship of the director, manager, and favourite members of the theatre she regarded
as indispensable, whilst those frequenters of the theatre who, through their criticism or taste,
influenced the public, and thus also had weight with the management, she recognised as beings
upon whom the attainment of her most fervent desires depended. Never to make enemies of them
appeared so natural and so necessary that, in order to maintain her popularity, she was prepared
to sacrifice even her self- respect. She had in this way created for herself a certain peculiar
code of behaviour, that on the one hand prompted her to avoid scandals, but on the other hand
found excuses even for making herself conspicuous as long as she herself knew that she was
doing nothing wrong. Hence arose a mixture of inconsistencies, the questionable sense of which
she was incapable of grasping. It was clearly impossible for her not to lose all real sense
of delicacy; she showed, however, a sense of the fitness of things, which made her have regard
to what was considered proper, though she could not understand that mere appearances were a
mockery when they only served to cloak the absence of a real sense of delicacy. As she was
without idealism, she had no artistic feeling; neither did she possess any talent for acting,
and her power of pleasing was due entirely to her charming appearance. Whether in time routine
would have made her become a good actress it is impossible for me to say. The strange power
she exercised over me from the very first was in no wise due to the fact that I regarded her
in any way as the embodiment of my ideal; on the contrary, she attracted me by the soberness
and seriousness of her character, which supplemented what I felt to be wanting in my own, and
afforded me the support that in my wanderings after the ideal I knew to be necessary for me.

I had soon accustomed myself never to betray my craving after the ideal before Minna: unable
to account for this even to myself, I always made a point of avoiding the subject by passing
it over with a laugh and a joke; but, on this account, it was all the more natural for me to
feel qualms when fears arose in my mind as to her really possessing the qualities to which
I had attributed her superiority over me. Her strange tolerance with regard to certain familiarities
and even importunities on the part of patrons of the theatre, directed even against her person,
hurt me considerably; and on my reproaching her for this, I was driven to despair by her assuming
an injured expression as though I had insulted her. It was quite by chance that I came across
Schwabe's letters, and thus gained an astonishing insight into her intimacy with that man,
of which she had left me in ignorance, and allowed me to gain my first knowledge during my
stay in Berlin. All my latent jealousy, all my inmost doubts concerning Minna's character,
found vent in my sudden determination to leave the girl at once. There was a violent scene
between us, which was typical of all our subsequent altercations. I had obviously gone too
far in treating a woman who was not passionately in love with me, as if I had a real right
over her; for, after all, she had merely yielded to my importunity, and in no way belonged
to me. To add to my perplexity, Minna only needed to remind me that from a worldly point of
view she had refused very good offers in order to give way to the impetuosity of a penniless
young man, whose talent had not yet been put to any real test, and to whom she had nevertheless
shown sympathy and kindness.

What she could least forgive in me was the raging vehemence with which I spoke, and by which
she felt so insulted, that upon realising to what excesses I had gone, there was nothing I
could do but try and pacify her by owning myself in the wrong, and begging her forgiveness.
Such was the end of this and all subsequent scenes, outwardly; at least, always to her advantage.
But peace was undermined for ever, and by the frequent recurrence of such quarrels, Minna's
character underwent a considerable change. Just as in later times she became perplexed by what
she considered my incomprehensible conception of art and its proportions, which upset her ideas
about everything connected with it, so now she grew more and more confused by my greater delicacy
in regard to morality, which was very different from hers, especially as in many other respects
I displayed a freedom of opinion which the could neither comprehend nor approve.

A feeling of passionate resentment was accordingly roused in her otherwise tranquil disposition.
It was not surprising that this resentment increased as the years went on, and manifested itself
in a manner characteristic of a girl sprung from the lower middle class, in whom mere superficial
polish had taken the place of any true culture. The real torment of our subsequent life together
lay in the fact that, owing to her violence, I had lost the last support I had hitherto found
in her exceptionally sweet disposition. At that time I was filled only with a dim foreboding
of the fateful step I was taking in marrying her. Her agreeable and soothing qualities still
had such a beneficial effect upon me, that with the frivolity natural to me, as well as the
obstinacy with which I met all opposition, I silenced the inner voice that darkly foreboded
disaster.

Since my journey to Konigsberg I had broken off all communication with my family, that is to
say, with my mother and Rosalie, and I told no one of the step I had decided to take. Under
my old friend Moller's audacious guidance I overcame all the legal difficulties that stood
in the way of our union. According to Prussian law, a man who has reached his majority no longer
requires his parents' consent to his marriage: but since, according to this same provision,
I was not yet of age, I had recourse to the law of Saxony, to which country I belonged by birth,
and by whose regulations I had already attained my majority at the age of twenty-one. Our banns
had to be published at the place where we had been living during the past year, and this formality
was carried out in Magdeburg without any further objections being raised. As Minna's parents
had given their consent, the only thing that still remained to be done to make everything quite
in order was for us to go together to the clergyman of the parish of Tragheim. This proved
a strange enough visit. It took place the morning preceding the performance to be given for
our benefit, in which Minna had chosen, the pantomimic role of Fenella; her costume was not
ready yet, and there was still a great deal to be done. The rainy cold November weather made
us feel out of humour, when, to add to our vexation, we were kept standing in the hall of the
vicarage for an unreasonable time. Then an altercation arose between us which speedily led
to such bitter vituperation that we were just on the point of separating and going each our
own way, when the clergyman opened the door. Not a little embarrassed at having surprised us
in the act of quarrelling, he invited us in. We were obliged to put a good face on the matter,
however; and the absurdity of the situation so tickled our sense of humour that we laughed;
the parson was appeased, and the wedding fixed for eleven o'clock the next morning.

Another fruitful source of irritation, which often led to the outbreak of violent quarrelling
between us, was the arrangement of our future home, in the interior comfort and beauty of which
I hoped to find a guarantee of happiness. The economical ideas of my bride filled me with impatience.
I was determined that the inauguration of a series of prosperous years which I saw before me
must be celebrated by a correspondingly comfortable home. Furniture, household utensils, and
all necessaries were obtained on credit, to be paid for by instalment. There was, of course,
no question of a dowry, a wedding outfit, or any of the things that are generally considered
indispensable to a well-founded establishment. Our witnesses and guests were drawn from the
company of actors accidentally brought together by their engagement at the Konigsberg theatre.
My friend Moller made us a present of a silver sugar-basin, which was supplemented by a silver
cake-basket from another stage friend, a peculiar and, as far as I can remember, rather interesting
young man named Ernst Castell. The benefit performance of the Die Stumme von Portici, which
I conducted with great enthusiasm, went off well, and brought us in as large a sum as we had
counted upon. After spending the rest of the day before our wedding very quietly, as we were
tired out after our return from the theatre, I took up my abode for the first time in our new
home. Not wishing to use the bridal bed, decorated for the occasion, I lay down on a hard sofa,
without even sufficient covering on me, and froze valiantly while awaiting the happiness of
the following day. I was pleasantly excited the next morning by the arrival of Minna's belongings,
packed in boxes and baskets. The weather, too, had quite cleared up, and the sun was shining
brightly; only our sitting-room refused to get properly warm, which for some time drew down
Minna's reproaches upon my head for my supposed carelessness in not having seen to the heating
arrangements. At last I dressed myself in my new suit, a dark blue frock-coat with gold buttons.
The carriage drove up, and I set out to fetch my bride. The bright sky had put us all in good
spirits, and in the best of humour I met Minna, who was dressed in a splendid gown chosen by
me. She greeted me with sincere cordiality and pleasure shining from her eyes; and taking the
fine weather as a good omen, we started off for what now seemed to us a most cheerful wedding.
We enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing the church as over-crowded as if a brilliant theatrical
representation were being given; it was quite a difficult matter to make our way to the altar,
where a group no less worldly than the rest, consisting of our witnesses, dressed in all their
theatrical finery, were assembled to receive us. There was not one real friend amongst all
those present, for even our strange old friend Moller was absent, because no suitable partner
had been found for him. I was not for a single moment insensible to the chilling frivolity
of the congregation, who seemed to impart their tone to the whole ceremony. I listened like
one in a dream to the nuptial address of the parson, who, I was afterwards told, had had a
share in producing the spirit of bigotry which at this time was so prevalent in Konigsberg,
and which exercised such a disquieting influence on its population.

A few days later I was told that a rumour had got about the town that I had taken action against
the parson for some gross insults contained in his sermon; I did not quite see what was meant,
but supposed that the exaggerated report arose from a passage in his address which I in my
excitement had misunderstood. The preacher, in speaking of the dark days, of which we were
to expect our share, bade us look to an unknown friend, and I glanced up inquiringly for further
particulars of this mysterious and influential patron who chose so strange a way of announcing
himself. Reproachfully, and with peculiar emphasis, the pastor then pronounced the name of
this unknown friend: Jesus. Now I was not in any way insulted by this, as people imagined,
but was simply disappointed; at the same time, I thought that such exhortations were probably
usual in nuptial addresses.

But, on the whole, I was so absent-minded during this ceremony, which was double Dutch to me,
that when the parson held out the closed prayer-book for us to place our wedding rings upon,
Minna had to nudge me forcibly to make me follow her example.

At that moment I saw, as clearly as in a vision, my whole being divided into two cross-currents
that dragged me in different directions; the upper one faced the sun and carried me onward
like a dreamer, whilst the lower one held my nature captive, a prey to some inexplicable fear.
The extraordinary levity with which I chased away the conviction which kept forcing itself
upon me, that I was committing a twofold sin, was amply accounted for by the really genuine
affection with which I looked upon the young girl whose truly exceptional character (so rare
in the environment in which she had been placed) led her thus to bind herself to a young man
without any means of support. It was eleven o'clock on the morning of the 24th of November,
1836, and I was twenty-three and a half.

On the way home from church, and afterwards, my good spirits rose superior to all my doubts.

Minna at once took upon herself the duty of receiving and entertaining her guests. The table
was spread, and a rich feast, at which Abraham Moller, the energetic promoter of our marriage,
also took part, although he had been rather put out by his exclusion from the church ceremony,
made up for the coldness of the room, which for a long time refused to get warm, to the great
distress of the young hostess.

Everything went off in the usual uneventful way. Nevertheless, I retained my good spirits till
the next morning, when I had to present myself at the magistrate's court to meet the demands
of my creditors, which had been forwarded to me from Magdeburg to Konigsburg.

My friend Moller, whom I had retained for my defence, had foolishly advised me to meet my creditors'
demands by pleading infancy according to the law of Prussia, at all events until actual assistance
for the settlement of the claims could be obtained.

The magistrate, to whom I stated this plea as I had been advised, was astonished, being probably
well aware of my marriage on the previous day, which could only have taken place on the production
of documentary proof of my majority. I naturally only gained a brief respite by this manoeuvre,
and the troubles which beset me for a long time afterwards had their origin on the first day
of my marriage.

During the period when I held no appointment at the theatre I suffered various humiliations.
Nevertheless, I thought it wise to make the most of my leisure in the interests of my art,
and I finished a few pieces, among which was a grand overture on Rule Britannia.

When I was still in Berlin I had written the overture entitled Polonia, which has already been
mentioned in connection with the Polish festival. Rule Britannia was a further and deliberate
step in the direction of mass effects; at the close a strong military band was to be added
to the already over-full orchestra, and I intended to have the whole thing performed at the
Musical Festival in Konigsberg in the summer.

To these two overtures I added a supplement--an overture entitled Napoleon. The point to which
I devoted my chief attention was the selection of the means for producing certain effects,
and I carefully considered whether I should express the annihilating stroke of fate that befell
the French Emperor in Russia by a beat on the tom-tom or not. I believe it was to a great extent
my scruples about the introduction of this beat that prevented me from carrying out my plan
just then.

On the other hand, the conclusions which I had reached regarding the ill-success of Liebesverbot
resulted in an operatic sketch in which the demands made on the chorus and the staff of singers
should be more in proportion to the known capacity of the local company, as this small theatre
was the only one at my disposal.

