"De place was jis' a farm, 'cause dey didn't know nothin' 'bout plantations up dere in Kentucky.
Dey raise corn and wheat and garlic and fast hosses. Dey used to have big hoss races and dey
had big tracks and I's stood in de middle of dat big track in Lexington and watch dem ex'cise
de hosses. Sometimes I got to help dem groom some dem grand hosses and dat was de big day for
me. I don't 'member dem hosses names, no, suh, but I knowed one big bay hoss what won de race
nearly every time.

"I had two sisters name Jeanette and Fanny and a brother, Henry, and after my daddy die, my
mother marries a man name Paris and I had one half-brother call Alfred Paris.

"Old massa was good to us and give us plenty food. He never beat us hard. He had a son what
jis' one month older'n me and we run 'round and play lots. Old massa, he whip me and he own
son jis' de same when we bad. He didn't whip us no more'n he ought to, though. Dey was good
massas and some mean ones, and some worthless cullud folks, too.

"Durin' de war de cholera broke out 'mongst de people and everybody scairt dey gwine cotch
it. Dey say it start with de hurtin' in de stomach and every time us hurt in de stomach, missus
make us come quick to de big house. Dat suit us jis' right and when dey sends Will and me to
hoe or do somethin' us didn't want to do, pretty soon I say, 'Willie, I think my stomach 'ginnin
to hurt. I think dis mis'ry a sign I gittin' de cholera.' Den him say, 'Us better go to de
big house like ma say,' and with dat, us quit workin'. Us git out lots of work dat way, but
us ain't ever took de cholera yit.

"Durin' de war John Morgan's men come and took all de hosses. Dey left two and Willie and me
took dem to hide in de plum thicket, but us jis' git out de gate when de sojers come 'gain
and dey head us off and take de last two hosses.

"My mother she wore de Yankee flag under her dress like a petticoat when de 'federates come
raidin'. Other times she wore it top de dress. When dey hears de 'federates comin' de white
folks makes us bury all de gold and de silver spoons out in de garden. Old massa, he in de
Yankee army, 'cause dey 'script him, but he sons, John and Joe, dey volunteers.

"Old massa he never sold none of he slaves. I used to hear him and missus fussin' 'bout de
niggers, 'cause some 'long to her and some to him and dey have de time keepin' dem straighten' out.

Us boys have good time playin'. Us draw de line and some git on one side and some de other.
Den one sing out

"'Chickama, Chickama, craney crow,
  Went to de well to wash my toe;
  When I git back my chicken was gone,
      What time, old witch?'

"Den somebody holler out, 'One o'clock' or 'Two o'clock' or any time, and dem on one side try
to cotch dem on de other side.

"When I's young I didn't mind plowin', but I didn't like to ride at fust, but dey make me larn
anyhow. Course, dat white boy and me, us like most anything what not too much work. Us go down
to de watermelon patch and plug dem melons, den us run hide in de woods and eat watermelon.
Course, dey lots of time dey 'low us to play jis' by ourselves. Us play one game where us choose
sides and den sing:

"'Can, can, candio,
  Old man Dandio,
  How many men you got?
  More'n you're able to cotch.'

"Endurin' de war us git whip many a time for playin' with shells what us find in de woods.
Us heered de cannons shootin' in Lexington and lots of dem shells drap in de woods.

"What did I think when I seed all dem sojers? I wants to be one, too. I didn't care what side,
I jis' wants a gun and a hoss and be a sojer. John Morgan, he used to own de hemp factory in
Lexington. When young massa jine Woolford's 11th Kentucky Cavalry, dey come to de place and
halt befo' de big house in de turnpike. Dey have shotguns and blind bridles on dere hosses,
not open bridle like on de race hosses. Dey jis' in reg'lar clothes but next time dey come
through dey in blue uniforms. All my white folks come back from de war and didn't git kilt.
Nobody ever telt me I's free. I's happy dere and never left dem till 1872. All de others gone
befo' dat, but I gits all I wants and I didn't need no money. I didn't know what paper money
was and one time massa's son give me a paper dime to git some squab and I didn't know what
money was and I burned it up.

"Dey's jis' one thing I like to do most and dat's eat. Dey allus had plenty of everything and
dey had a big, wooden tray, or trough and dey put potlicker and cornbread in dat trough and
set it under de big locust tree and all us li'l niggers jis' set 'round and eat and eat. Jis'
eat all us wants. Den when us git full us fall over and go to sleep. Us jis' git fat and lazy.
When us see dat bowl comin', dat bowl call us jis' like hawgs runnin' to de trough.

"Dey was great on gingerbread and us go for dat. Dey couldn't leave it in de kitchen or de
pantry so old missus git a big tin box and hide de gingerbread under her bed and kept de switch
on us to keep us 'way from it. But sometime us sneak up in de bedroom and git some, even den.

"When I 'bout 17 I left Kentucky and goes to Indiana and white folks sends me to school to
larn readin' and writin', but I got tired of dat and run off and jine de army. Dat in 1876
and dey sends me to Arizona. After dat I's at Fort Sill in what used to be Indian Territory
and den at Fort Clark and Fort Davis, dat in Garfield's 'ministration, den in Fort Quitman
on de Rio Grande. I's in skirmishes with de Indians on Devil's River and in de Brazos Canyon,
and in de Rattlesnake Range and in de Guadalupe Mountains. De troops was de Eighth Cavalry
and de Tenth Infantry. De white and de cullud folks was altogether and I have three hosses
in de cavalry. De fust one plays out, de next one shot down on campaign and one was condemn.
On dat campaign us have de White Mountain 'paches with us for scouts.

"When I git discharge' from de Army I come to Texas and work on de S.P. Railroad and I been
in Texas ever since, and when I's in Dallas I got 'flicted and got de pension 'cause I been
in de army. I ain't done much work in ten year.

"I gits married in San Antonio on December 14, 1882 and I marries Dolly Gross and dat her right
dere. Us have de nice weddin', plenty to eat and drink. Us have only one chile, a gal, and
she dead, but us 'dopt sev'ral chillen.

"Us come to Beaumont in 1903 and I works 'round Spindletop and I works for de gas people and
de waterworks people. I's been a carpenter and done lots of common work wherever I could find it.

"It's been long time since slavery and I's old, but me and my old lady's in good health and
us manage to git 'long fairly well. Dat's 'bout all I can 'member 'bout de old times.

420236

     MARTHA SPENCE BUNTON, 81, was born a slave, Jan. 1, 1856, on the
     John Bell plantation, in Murphfreesboro, Tennessee. Mr. Bell sold
     Martha, her mother and four sisters to Joseph Spence, who brought
     them to Texas. Martha married Andy Bunton in 1880, and they had
     nine children. Martha now lives with her sister, Susan, on twelve
     acres of land which their father bought for $25.00 an acre. The
     farm is picturesquely located on a thickly wooded hill about six
     miles east of Austin, Texas.

"I was born on New Year's Day. Yes, suh, in 1856, on Massa Bell's plantation over in Tennessee.
De name of de town was Murphreesboro, and my mammy and my four sisters and me all 'longed to
Massa John Bell, but he done sold us to Massa Joseph Spence, and dat how I come by my name.

"I 'members how Massa Spence brung us to Texas in wagons, and the way we knowed when we hit
Texas am 'cause massa 'gin to talk 'bout a norther. When dat norther done strike, all de weeds
and leaves jus' starts rollin'. Us poor, ig'rant niggers thunk at first dey was rabbits, 'cause
we'd never seed a rabbit den. Massa Spence rid his hoss and Missie Spence come 'long in de
richer way, in a coach. De chillen walked mornin's and de older folks walked afternoons.

"Massa Spence come to Montopolis, right nigh to Austin, and settled down. I helped carry dinner
pails to de field workers, and dey was full of meat and cabbage and biscuit. Pappy wasn't dere
then, 'cause he was own by Massa Burrows, over in Tennessee. But when his massa died, my massa
bought pappy and he come out to Texas. Befo' I's a sizeable child, mammy took sick with diphtheria
and died and pappy had to be mammy and pappy to us. Pappy was a big-bodied man and on Sunday
mornin' he'd git out of bed and make a big fire and say, 'Jiminy cripes! You chillen stay in
you beds and I'll make de biscuits.' He would, too. I laughs when I thinks 'bout dem big, rye
biscuits, what was so big we called dem 'Nigger heels.' Dey sho' was big biscuits, but dey
was good. We never did git no butter, though, and sometimes we'd ask the white chillen to give
us a piece of biscuit with butter on it. We got plenty other eats--sliced meat and roastin'
ears and sweet milk.

"After freedom pappy sent us to school to de white teacher, and dat's why I can read and write.
I went to de sixth grade and quit. Pappy was drinkin' a lot then. He'd take alcohol and mix
it with 'lasses and water. But he was good to us. Sometimes a Texas norther come up and we'd
be on the way home and we'd see something comin' what look like a elephant and it was pappy,
with a bundle of coats.

"I was twenty-four years old when I married Andy Bunton and he jes' rented farms here and yonder.
We had a big weddin' and pork and turkey and cake. Aunt Lucy Hubbard, what weighed three hundred
pounds, done de cookin' dat day. We had such a good time nobody knowed when one de guests stole
a whole turkey.

"I was mother of nine chillen and three of dem is livin' now. Andy made a purty good livin
till he had a paral'sis stroke. Poor old feller! In de end, I took care of him and had to work
like I was young again. I cut wood and carried water and washed and cooked. I had to feed him.

"I owns my place here. It am twelve acres and pappy bought it long ago for $25.00 de acre.
My sister lives here too, and my son, Howard, comes home sometimes, but he's got eight houn'
dogs he can't feed. I sho' can't feed dem on dat $11.00 pension what I gits.

420080

     ELLEN BUTLER was born a slave to Richmond Butler, near Whiska
     Chitto, in the northern part of Calcasieu Parish (now a part of
     Beauregard Parish), in Louisiana. Ellen is about 78 years old. She
     now lives in Beaumont, Texas.

"My old massa was name Richmond Butler and he used to have a big plantation over on Whiska
Chitto, in Louisiana, and that's where I was born. They used to call the place Bagdad. I was
his slave till I six year old and then freedom come.

"I don't 'member my daddy, but my mammy was name Dicey Ann Butler. I have seven sister and
three brudder, and they was Anderson and Charlie and Willie, and the girls was Laura and Rosa
and Rachel and Fannie and Adeline and Sottie and Nora.

"Us used to live in a li'l log house with one room. The floor was dirt and the house was make
jus' like they used to make 'tater house. They was a little window in the back. When I was
a baby they wrop me up in cotton and put me in a coffee pot--that how li'l I was. But I grows
to be more sizable.

"The plantation were a good, big place and they have 'bout 200 head of niggers. When I gets
big enough they start me to totin' water to the field. I gits the water out the spring and
totes it in gourds. They cut the gourds so that a strip was left round and cross the top and
that the handle. They was about a foot 'cross and a foot deep. Us used to have one good gourd
us kep' lard in and li'l gourds to drink out of.

"Massa never 'lowed us slaves go to church but they have big holes in the fields they gits
down in and prays. They done that way 'cause the white folks didn't want them to pray. They
used to pray for freedom.

"When the white folks go off they writes on the meal and flour with they fingers. That the
way they know if us steal meal. Sometime they take a stick and write in front of the door so
if anybody go out they step on that writin' and the massa know. That the way us larn how to write.

"Old massa didn't give 'em much to eat. When they comes in out of the field they goes work
for other folks for something to eat.

"They jus' have a old frame with planks to sleep on and no mattress or nothin'. In winter they
have to keep the fire goin' all night to keep from freezin'. They put a old quilt down on the
floor for the li'l folks. They have a li'l trough us used to eat out of with a li'l wooden
paddle. Us didn't know nothin' 'bout knives and forks.

"I never did git nothin' much to eat. My sister she de cook and sometime when the white folks
gone us go up to the big house and she give us somethin'. But she make us wash the mouth after
us finish eatin', so they won't be no crumbs in our mouth.

"Massa used to beat 'em all the time. My brudder tell old massa sometime he git hongry and
gwine have to come ask de niggers for somethin' to eat. He say he never do that, but he did,
'cause after freedom he go to West Texas and some niggers with him and he los' everything and,
sho' 'nough, old massa have to go to my brudder and ask him for food and a shelter to sleep
under. Then he say if he had it to do over, he wouldn't treat the hands so bad.

"One time my brudder slip off de plantation and they almost beat him to death. He told 'em
he had to do somethin' to git somethin' to eat. They used to put 'em 'cross a log or barrel
to beat 'em. My mammy had a strop 'bout eight inch wide they used to beat 'em with.

"Most clothes what we git is from the Iles, what was rich folks and lives close by. They folks
lives in DeRidder, in Louisiana, I hears. They treated the slaves like white folks.

"On Christmas time they give us a meal. I 'member that. I don't 'member no other holidays.

"When us git sick us go to the woods and git herbs and roots and make tea and medicine. We
used to git Blackhaw root and cherry bark and dogwood and chinquapin bark, what make good tonic.
Black snakeroot and swamproot make good medicine, too.

"My mammy told us we was free and we starts right off and walks to Sugartown, 'bout 8 mile
away. I 'member my brudder wades 'cross a pool totin' me.

"I used to nuss Dr. Frasier. He used to be the high sheriff in DeRidder.

420182

     HENRY H. BUTTLER, 87, venerable graduate of Washburn College,
     Topeka, Kansas, and ex-school teacher, was born a slave to Mr.
     George Sullivan on his 300 acre plantation in Farquier Co.,
     Virginia. Henry and a number of other slaves were transported to
     Arkansas in 1863, and Henry escaped and joined the Union Army. He
     now lives at 1308 E. Bessie St., Fort Worth, Texas.

"My name is Henry H. Buttler and I am past 87 years of age. That figure may not be accurate,
but you must realize that there were no authentic records made of slave births. I estimate
my age on the work I was doing at the commencement of the Civil War and the fact that I was
large enough to be accepted as a soldier in the Union Army, in the year of 1864.

"I was born on the plantation of George Sullivan, in Farquier Co., Virginia. The plantation
was situated in the valley at the base of Bull Mountain, and presented a beautiful picture.
The plantation consisted of about 30 acres, with about 30 slaves, though this number varied
and sometimes reached 50. Mr. Sullivan owned my mother and her children, but my father was
owned by Mr. John Rector, whose place was adjacent to ours.

"The slave quarters consisted of a group of one-room log cabins, with no flooring, and very
crude furnishings. There were bunks and benches and a table and the fireplace provided the
means for cooking and heating.

"The food was wholesome and of sufficient quantity. In that period about all the food was produced
and processed on the plantation, which eliminated any reason for failure to provide ample food.
The meat was home cured and the ham and bacon had a superior flavor.

"On the Sullivan place there existed consideration for human feelings but on the Rector place
neither the master nor the overseer seemed to understand that slaves were human beings. One
old slave called Jim, on the Rector place, disobeyed some rule and early one morning they ordered
him to strip. They tied him to the whipping post and from morning until noon, at intervals,
the lash was applied to his back. I, myself, saw and heard many of the lashes and his cries
for mercy.

"One morning a number of slaves were ordered to lay a fence row on the Rector place. The overseer
said, 'This row must be laid to the Branch and left in time to roll those logs out in the back
woods.' It was sundown when we laid the last rail but the overseer put us to rolling logs without
any supper and it was eleven when we completed the task. Old Pete, the ox driver, became so
exhausted that he fell asleep without unyoking the oxen. For that, he was given 100 lashes.

"The slaves were allowed to marry but were compelled to first obtain permission from the master.
The main factor involved in securing the master's consent was his desire to rear negroes with
perfect physiques. On neither plantation was there any thought or compassion when a sale or
trade was in question. I have seen the separation of husband and wife, child and mother, and
the extreme grief of those involved, and the lash administered to a grieving slave for neglecting
their work. All this made the marriages a farce.

"In 1863 Mr. Sullivan transported about 40 of us slaves to Arkansas, locating us on a farm
near Pine Bluff, so we would not be taken by the Federal soldiers. The general faithfulness
of the slave was noticeable then, as they had a chance to desert and go to free states. But
I think I was the only one who deserted Mr. Sullivan. I went to Federal Headquarters at Fort
Smith, Arkansas, and was received into the army. We campaigned in Arkansas and nearby territory.
The major battle I fought in was that of Pine Bluff, which lasted one day and part of one night.

"After I was mustered out of the army, I set out to get an education and entered a grade school
at Pine Bluff. I worked after school at any job I could secure and managed to enter Washburn
College, in Topeka, Kansas. After I graduated I followed steam engineering for four years,
but later I went to Fort Worth and spent 22 years in educational work among my people. I exerted
my best efforts to advance my race.

"I married Lucia Brown in 1880 and we had three children, all of whom are dead. There is just
my wife and me left of the family, and we have a $75.00 per month Union soldier's pension.

420283

     WILLIAM BYRD, 97, was born a slave of Sam Byrd, near Madisonville,
     Texas. William was with his master during the Civil War. The old
     Negro is very feeble, but enjoyed talking about old times. He lives
     in Madisonville.

"I has a bill of sale what say I's born in 1840, so I knows I's ninety-seven years old, and
I's owned by Marse Sam Byrd. My mother's name was Fannie and I dunno pappy's name, 'cause my
mother allus say she found me a stray in the woods. I allus 'lieves my master was my pappy,
but I never did know for sho'.

"Our quarters was log and the bed built with poles stuck in the cracks and cowhide stretched
over, and we'd gather moss 'bout once a month and make it soft. When it was real cold we'd
git close together and I don't care how cold it got, we'd sleep jes' as warm as these here
feather beds.

"I split rails and chopped cotton and plowed with a wooden plow and druv Marse Byrd lots, 'cause
he was a trader, slave trade most the time. He was good to us and give us lots to eat. He had
a big garden and plenty sugar cane, and brown sugar. We'd press the juice out the cane 'tween
two logs and cook it in the big washpot.

"We had sheepskin clothes in cold weather, with the fur part inside, no shoes less'n we wropped
our feet in fur hides. But them clothes was warmer than these here cotton overalls. They're
plumb cold!

Marse Sam was full of life and Missus Josie was real good. They had a nice home of that day,
made out split logs and four rooms and a hall two ways through it.

"That great iron piece hung jes' outside the door and Marse Sam hit it at 3:30 every mornin'.
If we didn't muster out he come round with that cat-o-nine-tails and let us have it, and we
knowed what that bell was for nex' mornin'. Sometimes when Marse Sam was gone, we'd have a
overseer. He'd let us go swimmin' in the creek when the work was done.

"If a nigger was mean Marse Sam give him fifty licks over a log the first time and seventy-five
licks the second time and 'bout that time he most gen'rally had a good nigger. If they was
real mean and he couldn't do nothin' with 'em, he put them in the jail with a chain on the
feets for three days, and fed 'em through a crack in the wall.

"On Christmas Marse Sam had a great big eggnog and kilt a big beef and had fireworks, and the
nigger, he know Christmas was come. We had plenty to eat and eggnog and did 'bout what we pleased
that day and New Year's. The white folks allus said what we'd do on them days we'd do all year.
That's all foolishment, but some still believes in it.

"They give a big dance and all night supper when war started. Then Marse Sam, he carries me
for waterboy and cook and to tend his hosses. He had two, and rid one this day and the other
nex' day. He was 'fraid one git kilt and then he wouldn't be slam a-foot.

"When them big guns went to poppin', I jes' couldn't stand it without gittin' in a brush top.
Then marse goes and gits shot and I has to be his nuss. But, Lawd-a-me, one them Yankee gals,
she falls in love with marse whilst he lays nearly dead, and she say, 'William, he's mine,
so you got to take good care of him.' And him with a plumb good wife back home!

"When Marse Sam git well, he say he's goin' to 'nother place to fight. He was with General
Lee when that old war was over and that there Yankee General Grant takes General Lee prisoner,
and Marse Sam won't leave his general, and he say to me, 'William, you got to go home alone.'

"I lights out a-foot to Texas and it's most a year befo' I gits home. I travels day and night
at first. I buys some things to eat but every time I goes by a farmhouse I steals a chicken.
Sometimes I sho' gits hongry. When I git to the house, Missus Josie faints, 'cause she thunk
Marse Sam ain't with me and he mus' be dead. I tells her he's in prison and she say she'll
give me $2.00 a month to stay till he gits back. I's plumb crazy 'bout a little gal called
'Cricket,' 'cause she so pert and full of live, so I stays. We gits us a cabin and that's all
to our weddin'. We stays a year befo' Marse Sam comes back.

"He was the plumb awfulest sight you ever done seed! His clothes is tore offen his body and
he ain't shaved in three months and he's mos' starved to death. Missus Josie she don't even
rec'nize him and wouldn't 'low him in till I tells her dat am Marse Sam, all right. He stays
sick a whole year.

"I thinks if them Yankees didn't 'tend to fix some way for us pore niggers, dey oughtn't turn
us a-loose. Iffen de white folks in de South hadn't been jes' what they is, us niggers been
lots worser off than we was. In slavery time when the nigger am sick, his master pay de bills,
but when nigger sick now, that's his own lookout.

"I never done nothin' but farm and odd jobs. I been married five times, but only my las' wife
am livin' now. My four boys and two gals is all farmin' right here in the county and they helps
us out. We gits by somehow.

420277

     LOUIS CAIN, 88, was born in North Carolina, a slave of Samuel Cain.
     After Louis was freed, he came to Texas, and has farmed near
     Madisonville over sixty years.

"I knows I's birthed in 1849, 'cause I had a bill of sale. It say that. My master traded me
to Massa Joe Cutt for a hundred acres of land. That's in 1861, and I 'members it well. My daddy
was Sam Cain, name after old Massa Cain, and mammy was Josie Jones, 'cause she owned by 'nother
master. Mammy was birthed in North Carolina, but daddy allus say he come from Africy. He say
they didn't work hard over there, 'cause all they et come out the jungle, and they had all
the wives they wanted. That was the 'ligion over there.

"Our quarters was made of logs, in a long shed six rooms long, like cowsheds or chicken houses,
and one door to each room. The bed was a hole dug in a corner and poles around and shucks and
straw. We'd sleep warm all night long, but it wouldn't do in this country in summertime.

"Massa give us plenty to eat. Our cornbread was what you calls water pone bread and cooked
in the ashes. We didn't have no stove. Massa was a great hunter and allus had venison and game.
They was plenty fish, too.

"Massa Cain was purty good to his slaves and mean to them if they didn't behave. Missy was
a good woman. They lived in a two-story rock house with plenty trees all 'round.

"We worked long as we could see, from four o'clock in the mornin', and them milked twenty cows
and fed the work stock. They was fifty acres and not 'nough niggers to work it easy.

"If some niggers was mean they'd git it. Massa tied they hands to they feet and tied them to
a tree and hit 'bout twenty-five or fifty licks with a rawhide belt. Hide and blood flew then.
Next mornin' he'd turn them loose and they'd have to work all day without nothin' to eat. He
had a cabin called jail for the nigger women, and chain them in with cornbread and one glass
of water.

"One nigger run to the woods to be a jungle nigger, but massa cotched him with the dogs and
took a hot iron and brands him. Then he put a bell on him, in a wooden frame what slip over
the shoulders and under the arms. He made that nigger wear the bell a year and took it off
on Christmas for a present to him. It sho' did make a good nigger out of him.

"In the summer time they had camp meetin' and baptized in the creek, white folks first while
the old nigger mammies shouts, and then the niggers.

"On Saturday mornin' us men grated corn for bread the next week and the women washed massa's
clothes and our'n. On Saturday night we'd have a dance all night long, and Sunday the men went
to see they wives or sweethearts and us young'uns went swimmin' in the creek. Every night but
Saturday we had to go to bed at nine o'clock. Massa hit the big steel piece and we knowed it
was time to put out the torches and pile in.

"On Christmas I'd stand by the gate, to open it for the company, and they'd throw nuts and
candy to me. That night all the slaves what could brung they banjoes and fiddles and played
for the white folks to dance all night. Them great old days are done gone. Most the men be
full that good, old eggnog.

"After war come they ain't no more dances and fun, and not much to eat or nothin'. Massa git
kilt in a big battle and missy took four slaves and brung him home and buried him under a big
shade tree in the yard. That the saddes' time I ever seen, nobody there to do anythin' but
missy and neighbor women and some real young niggers like me. She was cryin' and all us slaves
takin' on. It's a wonder we ever did git massa buried. We carried him on our backs to the grave.

"After that we had to carry missy to the mountains and hide her, 'cause everything, house and
sheds and all, was burnt, and all her stock kilt by sojers and outlaws. When she come out of
hidin' she didn't have a thing, not even a bed.

"But she was a brave woman, and said, 'Louis, we'll fix some kind of quarters for you.' She
went to work to rebuild the place. She said, 'You niggers is free, but I need you and I'll
pay you $2.00 a month.' She did, too. She cut some logs and builded her one room and then we
all build us a room and that was the best we could do. I 'lieve the Lawd blessed that woman.
After freedom, that's how I lived the first year, and she paid me every cent she promised.
I stayed with her three years.

"Then I heared of a railroad job in Texas, and married Josie Sewel in a big weddin' and we
had a great time. I gits a job on that railroad for fifty cents a day and it never lasted more'n
a year, so I goes to farmin'.

"We had fourteen chillun, four dead now, and the rest farmin' all over Texas. I has more'n
a hundred grandchillun. Josie, she done die twenty years ago.

"I don't know as I 'spected massa's land to be 'vided and give us, but they was plenty of land
for everybody, and missy allus treated us right. Wages was terrible small for a long time after
I married and sometimes they wouldn't pay us, and we had to beg or steal. I's went a whole
two days without nothin' to eat. If it hadn't been for them there Klu Klux, sometimes the niggers
would have went on the warpath for starvin'. But the Klu Kluxers wouldn't let 'em roam none,
if they tried they stretch them out over a log and hit them with rawhide, but never say a word.
That was got the niggers--they was so silent, not a sound out of them, and the nigger he can't
stand that.

"I gits a pension and works when I can and gits by. Some the young niggers is purty sorry,
they's had so much and don't 'preciate none of it. I's glad for what I can git, 'cause I 'members
them old times after the war when it was worse'n now.

420178

     JEFF CALHOUN, about 98, was born a slave of the Calhoun family, in
     Alton, Alabama. After his master died, a son-in-law, Jim Robinson,
     brought Jeff and 200 other slaves to Austin, Texas. Jeff was 22
     when the Civil War began. He stayed with his old master, who had
     moved to Stewart Mills Texas, after he was freed, and raised 23
     children. He says, "I 'spect I has near a thous- children,
     grandchildren and great grandchildren." He makes his home among
     them, drifting over five states when and as he wishes.

"My name am Jeff Calhoun and I was born in Alton, in Alabama, about 1838, 'cause I's told by
my massa. Dat makes me 'bout 98 year old now. My father was Henry Robinson and my mammy, she
Mary Robinson. She was born in Maryland, in Virginia, but didn't know much 'bout her folks,
'cause she was sold off young. Dere was four of us brothers and ten sisters, but dey all dead
now but me.

"We makes our beds out of forked saplings drove in the ground, 'cause de floors was dirt. We
sets de pole in dat ground and it run to de top of de cabin and we makes one bed down low and
one bed above. De big folks sleeps in de low beds and de chillun above, 'cause dey can climb.

"My massa had 15 chillun and my mamma suckled every one of dem, 'cause his wife was no good
to give milk.

"We allus had lots to eat, but for meat we has to go to de woods and git deer and turkey and
buffalo and some bear. I have eat hoss and skunk and crow and hawk.

"We has a big fire to cook on, and to make de corn cakes we put one leaf down and put batter
on dat and put another leaf over it and cover with hot ashes and by noon it was done. Same
thing for supper. We never have biscuits 'cept on Sunday or Christmas.

