Admirers of the Dutch master may miss some well-known pictures. For obvious reasons the Lecture
in Anatomy is deemed unsuitable for this place, and the Hundred Guilder Print contains too
many figures to be reproduced here clearly. The Syndics of the Cloth Guild and the print of
Christ Preaching will compensate for these omissions, and show Rembrandt at his best, both
with brush and burin.

There are perhaps no paintings in the world more difficult to reproduce satisfactorily in black
and white than those of Rembrandt. His marvelous effects of chiaroscuro leave in darkness portions
of the composition, which appear in the photograph as unintelligible blurs. With these difficulties
to meet, great pains have been taken to select for the reproductions of this book the best
photographs made direct from the original paintings. A comparative study of the available material
has resulted in making use of an almost equal number from Messrs. Hanfstaengl & Co. and Messrs.
Braun & Cie.

In reproducing the etchings the publishers have been most fortunate in being able to use for
the purpose original prints in the Harvey D. Parker Collection of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.

ESTELLE M. HURLL.

NEW BEDFORD, MASS.

November, 1899.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS AND LIST OF PICTURES

PORTRAIT OF REMBRANDT. PAINTED BY HIMSELF.       Frontispiece.

FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE.   ISRAEL BLESSING THE SONS OF JOSEPH

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANZ HANFSTAENGL

III.  THE ANGEL RAPHAEL LEAVING THE FAMILY OF TOBIT

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE

IV.   THE RAT KILLER

      PICTURE FROM ORIGINAL ETCHING IN THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON

V.    THE PHILOSOPHER IN MEDITATION

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE

VI.   THE GOOD SAMARITAN

      PICTURE FROM ORIGINAL ETCHING IN THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON

VII.  THE PRESENTATION IN THE TEMPLE

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANZ HANFSTAENGL

VIII. CHRIST PREACHING

      PICTURE FROM ORIGINAL ETCHING IN THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON

IX.   CHRIST AT EMMAUS

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE

X.    PORTRAIT OF SASKIA

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANZ HANFSTAENGL

XI.   THE SORTIE OF THE CIVIC GUARD

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE

XII.  PORTRAIT OF JAN SIX

      PICTURE FROM ORIGINAL ETCHING IN THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON

XIII. PORTRAIT OF AN OLD WOMAN

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY MAISON AD. BRAUN & CIE

XIV.  THE SYNDICS OF THE CLOTH GUILD

      PICTURE FROM PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANZ HANFSTAENGL

XV.   THE THREE TREES

      PICTURE FROM ORIGINAL ETCHING IN THE MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON

XVI. He is the idol of the connoisseur because of his superb mastery of technique, his miracles
of chiaroscuro, his blending of colors. Those who do not understand these matters must, it
is supposed, stand quite without the pale of his admirers. Too many people, accepting this
as a dictum, take no pains to make the acquaintance of the great Dutch master. It may be that
they are repelled at the outset by Rembrandt's indifference to beauty. His pictures lack altogether
those superficial qualities which to some are the first requisites of a picture. Weary of the
familiar commonplaces of daily life, the popular imagination looks to art for happier scenes
and fairer forms. This taste, so completely gratified by Raphael, is at first strangely disappointed
by Rembrandt. While Raphael peoples his canvases with beautiful creatures of another realm,
Rembrandt draws his material from the common world about us. In place of the fair women and
charming children with whom Raphael delights us, he chooses his models from wrinkled old men
and beggars. Rembrandt is nevertheless a poet and a visionary in his own way. "For physical
beauty he substitutes moral expression," says Fromentin. If in the first glance at his picture
we see only a transcript of common life, a second look discovers something in this common life
that we have never before seen there. We look again, and we see behind the commonplace exterior
the poetry of the inner life. A vision of the ideal hovers just beyond the real. Thus we gain
refreshment, not by being lifted out of the world, but by a revelation of the beauty which
is in the world. Rembrandt becomes to us henceforth an interpreter of the secrets of humanity.
As Raphael has been surnamed "the divine," for the godlike beauty of his creations, so Rembrandt
is "the human," for his sympathetic insight into the lives of his fellow men.

Even for those who are slow to catch the higher meaning of Rembrandt's work, there is still
much to entertain and interest in his rare story-telling power--a gift which should in some
measure compensate for his lack of superficial beauty. His story themes are almost exclusively
Biblical, and his style is not less simple and direct than the narrative itself. Every detail
counts for something in the development of the dramatic action. Probably no other artist has
understood so well the pictorial qualities of patriarchal history. That singular union of poetry
and prose, of mysticism and practical common sense, so striking in the Hebrew character, appealed
powerfully to Rembrandt's imagination. It was peculiarly well represented in the scenes of
angelic visitation. Jacob wrestling with the Angel affords a fine contrast between the strenuous
realities of life and the pure white ideal rising majestically beyond. The homely group of
Tobit's family is glorified by the light of the radiant angel soaring into heaven from the
midst of them.

Rembrandt's New Testament scenes are equally well adapted to emphasize the eternal immanence
of the supernatural in the natural. The Presentation in the Temple is invested with solemn
significance; the simple Supper at Emmaus is raised into a sacrament by the transfigured countenance
of the Christ. For all these contrasts between the actual and the ideal, Rembrandt had a perfect
vehicle of artistic expression in chiaroscuro. In the mastery of the art of light and shade
he is supreme. His entire artistic career was devoted to this great problem, and we can trace
his success through all the great pictures from the Presentation to the Syndics.

Rembrandt apparently cared very little for the nude, for the delicate curves of the body and
the exquisite colors of flesh. Yet to overbalance this disregard of beautiful form was his
strong predilection for finery. None ever loved better the play of light upon jewels and satin
and armor, the rich effectiveness of Oriental stuffs and ecclesiastical vestments. Unable to
gratify this taste in the portraits which he painted to order, he took every opportunity to
paint both himself and his wife, Saskia, in costume. Wherever the subject admitted, he introduced
what he could of rich detail. In the picture of Israel Blessing the Sons of Joseph, Asenath,
as the wife of an Egyptian official, is appropriately adorned with jewels and finery. In the
Sortie of the Civic Guard, Captain Cocq is resplendent in his military regalia.

With all this fondness for pretty things, Rembrandt never allowed his fancy to carry him beyond
the limits of fitness in sacred art. The Venetian masters had represented the most solemn scenes
of the New Testament with a pomp and magnificence entirely at variance with their meaning.
Rembrandt understood better the real significance of Christianity, and made no such mistake.
His Supper at Emmaus is the simple evening meal of three peasant pilgrims precisely as it is
represented in the Gospel. His Christ Preaching includes a motley company of humble folk, such
as the great Teacher loved to gather about him.

It was perhaps the obverse side of his fondness for finery, that Rembrandt had a strong leaning
towards the picturesqueness of rags. A very interesting class of his etchings is devoted to
genre studies and beggars. Here his disregard of the beautiful in the passion for expression
reached an extreme. His subjects are often grotesque--sometimes repulsive--but always intensely
human. Reading human character with rare sympathy, he was profoundly touched by the poetry
and the pathos of these miserable lives. Through all these studies runs a quaint vein of humor,
relieving the pathos of the situations. The picturesque costume of the old Rat Killer tickles
the sense of humor, and conveys somehow a delightful suggestion of his humbuggery which offsets
the touching squalor of the grotesque little apprentice. And none but a humorist could have
created the swaggering hostler's boy holding the Good Samaritan's horse.

As a revealer of character, Rembrandt reaches the climax of his power in his portraits. From
this class of his pictures alone one can repeople Holland with the spirits of the seventeenth
century. All classes and conditions and all ages came within the range of his magic brush and
burin. The fresh girlhood of Saskia, the sturdy manhood of the Syndics, and the storied old
age of his favorite old woman model show the scope of his power, and in Israel Blessing the
Sons of Joseph he shows the whole range in a single composition. He is manifestly at his best
when his sitter has pronounced features and wrinkled skin, a face full of character, which
he understood so well how to depict. Obstacles stimulated him to his highest endeavor. Given
the prosaic and hackneyed motif of the Syndics' composition, he rose to the highest point of
artistic expression in a portrait group, in which a grand simplicity of technical style is
united with a profound and intimate knowledge of human nature.

II. ON BOOKS OF REFERENCE

The history of modern Rembrandt bibliography properly begins with the famous work by C. Vosmaer,
"Rembrandt Harmens van Rijn, sa Vie et ses Œuvres." Vosmaer profited by the researches of Kolloff
and Burger to bring out a book which opened a new era in the appreciation of the great Dutch
master. It was first issued in 1868, and was republished in 1877 in an enlarged edition. This
book was practically alone in the field until the recent work of Emile Michel appeared. In
the English translation (by Florence Simmonds) edited by Walter Armstrong, Michel's "Rembrandt"
is at the present moment our standard authority on the subject. It is in two large illustrated
volumes full of historical information and criticism and containing a complete classified list
of Rembrandt's works--paintings, drawings, and etchings.

The "Complete Work of Rembrandt," by Wilhelm Bode, is now issuing from the press (1899), and
will consist of eight volumes containing reproductions of all the master's pictures, with historical
and descriptive text. It is to be hoped that this mammoth and costly work will be put into
many large reference libraries, where students may consult it to see Rembrandt's work in its
entirety.

The series of small German monographs edited by H. Knackfuss and now translated into English
has one number devoted to Rembrandt, containing nearly one hundred and sixty reproductions
from his works, with descriptive text. Kugler's "Handbook of the German, Flemish, and Dutch
Schools," revised by J. A. Crowe, includes a brief account of Rembrandt's life and work, which
may be taken as valuable and trustworthy. For a critical estimate of the character of Rembrandt's
art, its strength and weaknesses, and its peculiarities, nothing can be more interesting than
what Eugene Fromentin, French painter and critic, has written in his "Old Masters of Belgium
and Holland."

Rembrandt's etchings have been the exclusive subject of many books. There are voluminous descriptive
catalogues by Bartsch ("Le Peintre Graveur") Claussin, Wilson, Charles Blanc, Middleton, and
Dutuit. A short monograph on "The Etchings of Rembrandt," by Philip Gilbert Hamerton (London,
1896), reviews the most famous prints in a very pleasant way.

There are valuable prints from the original plates of Rembrandt in the Harvey D. Parker collection
of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and in the Gray collection of the Fogg Museum at Cambridge,
Massachusetts. Those who are not fortunate enough to have access to original prints will derive
much satisfaction from the complete set of reproductions published in St. Petersburg (1890)
with catalogue by Rovinski, and from the excellent reproductions of Amand Durand, Paris.

To come in touch with the spirit of the times and of the country of Rembrandt, the reader is
referred to Motley's "Rise of the Dutch Republic," condensed and continued by W. E. Griffis.

III. HISTORICAL DIRECTORY OF THE PICTURES OF THIS COLLECTION

Portrait Frontispiece. National Gallery, London. Signed and dated 1640.

1. Jacob Wrestling with the Angel. Berlin Gallery. Signed and dated 1659. Figures life size.
Size: 4 ft. 5-1/16 in. by 3 ft. 9-5/8 in.

2. Israel Blessing the Sons of Joseph. Cassel Gallery. Signed and dated 1656. Figures life
size. Size: 5 ft. 8-9/16 in. by 6 ft. 6-3/4 in.

3. The Angel Raphael Leaving the Family of Tobit. Louvre, Paris. Signed and dated 1637. Size:
2 ft. 2-13/16 in. by 1 ft. 8-1/2 in.

4. The Rat Killer. Etching. Signed and dated 1632. Size: 5-1/2 in. by 4-9/16 in.

5. The Philosopher in Meditation. Louvre, Paris. Signed and dated 1633. Size: 11-7/16 in. by 13 in.

6. The Good Samaritan. Etching. Signed and dated 1633. Size: 10-1/5 in. by 8-3/5 in.

7. The Presentation in the Temple. At the Hague. Signed and dated 1631. Size: 2 ft. 4-11/16
in. by 1 ft. 6-7/8 in.

8. Christ Preaching. Etching. Date assigned by Michel, about 1652. Size: 6-1/5 in. by 8-1/5 in.

9. Christ at Emmaus. Louvre, Paris. Signed and dated 1648. Size: 2 ft. 2-13/16 in. by 2 ft.
1-5/8 in.

10. Portrait of Saskia. Cassel Gallery. Painted about 1632-1634. Life size. Size: 3 ft. 2-11/16
in. by 2 ft. 1-3/5 in.

11. Sortie of the Civic Guard. Ryks Museum (Trippenhuis), Amsterdam. Signed and dated 1642.
Life size figures. Size: 11 ft. 9-3/8 in. by 14 ft. 3-5/16 in.

12. Portrait of Jan Six. Etching. Signed and dated 1647. Size: about 9-3/8 in. by 7-3/8 in.

13. Portrait of an Old Woman. Hermitage Gallery, St. Petersburg. Signed and dated 1654. Size:
3 ft. 6-7/8 in. by 2 ft. 9 in.

14. The Syndics of the Cloth Guild. Ryks Museum (Trippenhuis), Amsterdam. Signed and dated
1661. Life size figures. Size: 6 ft. 7/8 in. by 8 ft. 11-15/16 in.

15. The Three Trees. Etching, 1643. Size: 8-2/5 in. by 11 in.

IV. OUTLINE TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL EVENTS IN REMBRANDT'S LIFE

1606.[1] Rembrandt born in Leyden.

1621. Rembrandt apprenticed to the painter, Jacob van Swanenburch.

1624. Rembrandt studied six months with Pieter Lastman in Amsterdam.

1627. Rembrandt's earliest known works, St. Paul in Prison, (Stuttgart Museum); The Money Changers
(Berlin Gallery).

1631. Rembrandt removed to Amsterdam.

1631. The Presentation painted.

1632. The Anatomy Lecture painted.

1633. The portrait of the Shipbuilder and his Wife painted.

1634. Rembrandt married Saskia van Uylenborch, June 22, in Bildt.

1635. Rembrandt's son Rombertus baptized December 15. (Died in infancy.)

1637. Angel Raphael Leaving Family of Tobit painted.

1638. Rembrandt's daughter Cornelia born. (Died in early childhood.)

1639. Rembrandt bought a house in the Joden Breestraat.

1640. Rembrandt's second daughter born and died.

1640. Rembrandt's mother died.

1640. The Carpenter's Household painted.

1641. Manoah's Prayer painted.

1641. Rembrandt's son Titus baptized.

1642. Sortie of the Civic Guard (The Night Watch) painted for the hall of the Amsterdam Musketeers.

[Footnote 1: Authorities are not entirely unanimous as to the date of Rembrandt's birth.]

1642. Rembrandt's wife, Saskia, died.

1648. Christ at Emmaus painted.

1649. The Hundred Guilder print etched.

1651. Christ Appearing to Magdalen painted.

1652. Christ Preaching etched.

1656. Rembrandt's bankruptcy.

1656. Israel Blessing the Sons of Joseph painted.

1661. Portrait of the Syndics painted for the Guild of Drapers, Amsterdam.

1668. Rembrandt's son Titus died.

1669. Rembrandt died.

V. SOME OF REMBRANDT'S FAMOUS CONTEMPORARIES IN HOLLAND

Frederick Henry of Orange, stadtholder, 1625. Princess Amalia of Solms, wife of Frederick Henry,
built the Huis ten Bosch (House in the Woods) at the Hague, 1647.

William II of Orange, stadtholder, 1647. In 1650 the stadt-holderate was suppressed, and John
de Witt became in 1653 chief executive of the republic for twenty years. Murdered in 1672.

John of Barneveld, Grand Pensioner, "the greatest statesman in all the history of the Netherlands"
(Griffis). Executed May 24, 1619.

Michael de Ruyter, "the Dutch Nelson," died 1676.

Marten Harpertzoon von Tromp, admiral. Born 1597; died 1691. (He defeated the English fleet
under Blake.)

Cornelius Evertsen, admiral.

Floriszoon, admiral.

Witte de With, admiral.

Hendrik Hudson, navigator and discoverer; first voyage, 1607, last voyage, 1610.

Captain Zeachen, discoverer.

Hugo Grotius, father of international law, 1583-1645.

Jan Six, burgomaster, bibliophile, art connoisseur, and dramatist, 1618-1700.

Spinoza, philosopher, 1622-1677.

Joost van den Vondel, poet and dramatist, 1587-1679.

Jacob Cats, Grand Pensionary and poet, 1577-1660.

Constantine Huyghens, poet.

Gysbart Voet (Latin, Voetius) 1588-1678, professor of theology at Utrecht.

Cornelis Jansen, born 1585. Professor of scripture interpretation at Louvain.

Johannes Koch (Latin, Coccejus), 1603-1669, professor of theology at Leyden and, "after Erasmus,
the father of modern Biblical criticism."

J. van Kampen, architect, built the Het Palais (Royal Palace) in Amsterdam, 1648.

Jansz Vinckenbrink, sculptor.

Hendrik de Keyser, sculptor.

Crabeth brothers, designers of stained glass.

Albert Cuyp, 1605-1691.

Jan van Goyen, 1596-1656.

Jacob Ruysdael, 1625-1682.

Paul Potter, 1625-1654.

Jan Lievens, born 1607; died after 1672.

Salomon Koning, 1609-1668.

Gerard Terburg, 1608-1681.

Nicolas Berghem, 1620-1683.

Jan Steen, 1626-1679.

Adrian van Ostade, 1610-1685.

Rembrandt's pupils:--

Ferdinand Bol, 1616-1680.

Govert Flinck, 1615-1660.

Van den Eeckhont, 1620-1674.

Gerard Don, 1613-1680.

Nicolas Maes, 1632-1693.

Juriaen Ovens, 1623.

Hendrick Heerschop, born 1620, entered Rembrandt's studio, 1644.

Carl Fabritius, 1624-1654.

Samuel van Hoogstraaten, born 1627, with Rembrandt, 1640-1650.

Aert de Gelder, 1645-1727.

Less important names: Jan van Glabbeck, Jacobus Levecq, Heyman Dullaert, Johan Hendricksen,
Adriaen Verdael, Cornelis Drost.

VI. FOREIGN CONTEMPORARY PAINTERS

Flemish:--

Peter Paul Rubens, 1577-1640.

Anthony Van Dyck, 1599-1641.

Jacob Jordaens, 1594-1678.

Franz Snyders, 1574-1657.

Gaspard de Craeyer, 1582-1669.

David Teniers, 1610-1690.

Spanish:--

Velasquez, 1599-1660.

Pacheco, 1571-1654.

Cano, 1601-1676.

Herrera, 1576-1656.

Zurbaran, 1598-1662.

Charles Le Brun, 1619-1690.

Eustache Le Sueur, 1617-1655.

Italian:--

Carlo Dolci, 1616-1686.

Guido Reni, 1575-1642.

Domenichino, 1581-1641.

Francesco Albani, 1578-1660.

Guercino, 1591-1666.

Sassoferrato, 1605-1685.

I

JACOB WRESTLING WITH THE ANGEL

The history of the Old Testament patriarch Jacob reads like a romance. He was the younger of
the two sons of Isaac, and was at a great disadvantage on this account. Among his people the
eldest son always became the family heir and also received the choicest blessing from the father,
a privilege coveted as much as wealth. In this case therefore the privileged son was Jacob's
brother Esau. Jacob resented keenly the inequality of his lot; and his mother sympathized with
him, as he was her favorite. A feeling of enmity grew up between the brothers, and in the end
Jacob did Esau a great wrong.

One day Esau came in from hunting, nearly starved, and finding his younger brother cooking
some lentils, begged a portion of it for himself. Jacob seized the chance to make a sharp bargain.
He offered his brother the food--which is called in the quaint Bible language a "mess of pottage"--making
him promise in return that he would let their father give his blessing to the younger instead
of the older son. Esau was a careless fellow, too hungry to think what he was saying, and so
readily yielded.

But though Esau might sell his birthright in this fashion, the father would not have been willing
to give the blessing to the younger son, had it not been for a trick planned by the mother.
The old man was nearly blind, and knew his sons apart by the touch of their skin, as Esau had
a rough, hairy skin and Jacob a smooth one. The mother put skins of kids upon Jacob's hands
and neck and bade him go to his father pretending to be Esau, and seek his blessing. The trick
was successful, and when a little later Esau himself came to his father on the same errand,
he found that he had been superseded. Naturally he was very angry, and vowed vengeance on his
brother. Jacob, fearing for his life, fled into a place called Padanaram.

In this place he became a prosperous cattle farmer and grew very rich. He married there also
and had a large family of children. After fourteen years he bethought himself of his brother
Esau and the great wrong he had done him. He resolved to remove his family to his old home,
and to be reconciled with his brother. Hardly daring to expect to be favorably received, he
sent in advance a large number of cattle in three droves as a gift to Esau. Then he awaited
over night some news or message from his brother. In the night a strange adventure befell him.
This is the way the story is told in the book of Genesis.[2]

[Footnote 2: Genesis, chapter xxxii. verses 24-31.]

"There wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. And as he passed over Penuel,
the sun rose upon him and he halted upon his thigh;" that is, he walked halt, or lame.

The crisis in Jacob's life was passed, for hardly had he set forth on this morning when he
saw his brother whom he had wronged advancing with four hundred men to meet him.

So were the brothers reconciled.

The picture represents Jacob wrestling with his mysterious adversary. We have seen from his
history how determined he was to have his own way, and how he wrested worldly prosperity even
from misfortunes. Now he is equally determined in this higher and more spiritual conflict.
It is a very real struggle, and Jacob has prevailed only by putting forth his utmost energy.
It is the moment when the grand angel, pressing one knee into the hollow of Jacob's left thigh
and laying his hand on his right side, looks into his face and grants the blessing demanded
as a condition for release. Strong and tender is his gaze, and the gift he bestows is a new
name, in token of the new character of brotherly love of which this victory is the beginning.

The story of St. Michael and the Dragon, which Raphael has painted, stands for the everlasting
conflict between good and evil in the world. There is a like meaning in the story of Jacob's
wrestling with the angel. The struggle is in the human heart between selfish impulses and higher
ideals. The day when one can hold on to the good angel long enough to win a blessing, is the
day which begins a new chapter in a man's life.

II

ISRAEL BLESSING THE SONS OF JOSEPH

When Jacob wrestled with the angel he received a new name, Israel, or a prince, a champion of God.

Israel became the founder of the great Israelite nation, and from his twelve sons grew up the
twelve tribes of Israel, among whom was distributed the country now called Palestine. Among
these sons the father's favorite was Joseph, who was next to the youngest. This favoritism
aroused the anger and jealousy of the older brothers, and they plotted to get rid of him. One
day when they were all out with some flocks in a field quite distant from their home, they
thought they were rid forever of the hated Joseph by selling him to a company of men who were
journeying to Egypt. Then they dipped the lad's coat in goat's blood and carried it to Israel,
who, supposing his son to have been devoured by a wild beast, mourned him as dead.

When Joseph had grown to manhood in Egypt, a singular chain of circumstances brought the brothers
together again. There was a sore famine, and Egypt was the headquarters for the sale of corn.
Joseph had shown himself so able and trustworthy that he was given charge of selling and distributing
the stores of food. So when Israel's older sons came from their home to Egypt to buy corn they
had to apply to Joseph, whom they little suspected of being the brother they had so cruelly
wronged. There is a pretty story, too long to repeat here, of how Joseph disclosed himself
to his astonished brethren, and forgave them their cruelty, how he sent for his father to come
to Egypt to live near him, how there was a joyful reunion, and how "they all lived happily
ever after."

When the time drew near for Israel to die, he desired to bestow his last blessing on his sons.
And first of all his beloved son Joseph brought him his own two boys, Ephraim and Manasseh.

Now according to the traditions of the patriarchs, it was the eldest son who should receive
the choicest blessing from his father. Israel, however, had found among his own sons that it
was a younger one, Joseph, who had proved himself the most worthy of love. This may have shaken
his faith in the wisdom of the old custom. Perhaps, too, he remembered how his own boyhood
had been made unhappy because he was the younger son, and how he had on that account been tempted
to deceit.

Whatever the reason, he surprised Joseph at the last moment by showing a preference for the
younger of the two grandsons, Ephraim, expressing this preference by laying the right hand,
instead of the left, on his head.

[Footnote 3: Genesis, chapter xlviii. verses 17-20.]

As we compare the picture with the story, it is easy to identify the figures. We are naturally
interested in Joseph as the hero of so many romantic adventures. As a high Egyptian official,
he makes a dignified appearance and wears a rich turban. His face is gentle and amiable, as
we should expect of a loving son and forgiving brother.

In the old man we see the same Jacob who wrestled by night with the Angel and was redeemed
from his life of selfishness. The same strong face is here, softened by sorrow and made tender
by love. The years have cut deep lines of character in the forehead, and the flowing beard
has become snowy white.

The dying patriarch has "strengthened himself," to sit up on the bed for his last duty, and
his son Joseph supports him. The children kneel together by the bedside, the little Ephraim
bending his fair head humbly to receive his grandfather's right hand, Manasseh looking up alertly,
almost resentfully, as he sees that hand passing over his own head to his brother's. Joseph's
wife Asenath, the children's mother, stands beyond, looking on musingly. We see that it is
a moment of very solemn interest to all concerned. Though the patriarch's eyes are dim and
his hand trembles, his old determined spirit makes itself manifest. Joseph is in perplexity
between his filial respect and his solicitude for his first-born. He puts his fingers gently
under his father's wrist, trying to lift the hand to the other head. The mother seems to smile
as if well content. Perhaps she shares the grandfather's preference for little Ephraim.

The picture is a study in the three ages of man, childhood, manhood, and old age, brought together
by the most tender and sacred ties of human life, in the circle of the family.

III

THE ANGEL RAPHAEL LEAVING THE FAMILY OF TOBIT

The story of Tobit is found in what is called the Apocrypha, that is, a collection of books
written very much in the manner of the Bible, and formerly bound in Bibles between the Old
and the New Testament.

The story goes that when Enemessar, King of Assyria, conquered the people of Israel, he led
away many of them captive into Assyria, among them the family of Tobit, his wife Anna, and
their son Tobias. They settled in Nineveh, and Tobit, being an honest man, was made purveyor
to the king. That is, it was his business to provide food for the king's household.

In this office he was able to lay up a good deal of money, which he placed for safe keeping
in the hands of Gabael, an Israelite who lived at Rages in Media. Tobit was a generous man,
and he did many kind deeds for his less fortunate fellow exiles; he delighted in feeding the
hungry and clothing the naked.

When Sennacherib was king of Assyria, many Jews were slain and left lying in the street, and
Tobit, finding their neglected bodies, buried them secretly. One night, after some such deed
of mercy, a sad affliction befell him. White films came over his eyes, causing total blindness.
In his distress he prayed that he might die, and began to make preparations for death. He called
his son Tobias to him and gave him much good advice as to his manner of life, and then desired
him to go to Rages to obtain the money left there with Gabael. But Tobias must first seek a
guide for the journey. "Therefore," says the story, "when he went to seek a man, he found Raphael
that was an angel. But he knew not; and he said unto him, 'Canst thou go with me to Rages?
and knowest thou those places well?' To whom the angel said, 'I will go with thee, and I know
the way well: for I have lodged with our brother Gabael,'" The angel gave himself the name
Azarias. "So they went forth both, and the young man's dog with them."

"As they went on their journey, they came in the evening to the river Tigris, and they lodged
there. And when the young man went down to wash himself, a fish leaped out of the river, and
would have devoured him. Then the angel said unto him, 'Take the fish,' And the young man laid
hold of the fish, and drew it to land. To whom the angel said, 'Open the fish and take the
gall, and put it up safely.' So the young man did as the angel commanded him, and when they
had roasted the fish, they did eat it: then they both went on their way, till they drew near
to Ecbatane. Then the young man said to the angel, 'Brother Azarias, to what use is the gall
of the fish?' And he said unto him, 'It is good to anoint a man that hath whiteness in his
eyes, and he shall be healed.'"

After this curious incident there were no further adventures till they came to Ecbatane. Here
they lodged with Raguel, a kinsman of Tobit, and when Tobias saw Sara, the daughter, he loved
her and determined to make her his wife. He therefore tarried fourteen days at Ecbatane, sending
Azarias on to Rages for the money. This delay lengthened the time allotted for the journey,
but at last the company drew near to Nineveh,--Azarias or Raphael, and Tobias, with the bride,
the treasure, and the precious fishgall. Raphael then gave Tobias directions to use the gall
for his father's eyes. Their arrival was the cause of great excitement. "Anna ran forth, and
fell upon the neck of her son. Tobit also went forth toward the door, and stumbled: but his
son ran unto him, and took hold of his father: and he strake of the gall on his father's eyes,
saying, 'Be of good hope, my father.' And when his eyes began to smart, he rubbed them; and
the whiteness pilled away from the corners of his eyes: and when he saw his son, he fell upon
his neck."

Now Tobit and Tobias were full of gratitude to Azarias for all that he had done for them, and,
consulting together as to how they could reward him, decided to give him half the treasure.
So the old man called the angel, and said, "Take half of all that ye have brought, and go away
in safety." Then Raphael took them both apart, and said unto them, "Bless God, praise him,
and magnify him, and praise him for the things which he hath done unto you in the sight of
all that live."

With this solemn introduction the angel goes on to tell Tobit that he had been with him when
he had buried his dead countrymen, and that his good deeds were not hid from him, and that
his prayers were remembered. He concludes by showing who he really is.

"I am Raphael, one of the seven holy angels, which present the prayers of the saints, and which
go in and out before the glory of the Holy One."

"Then they were both troubled, and fell upon their faces: for they feared God. But he said
unto them, 'Fear not, for it shall go well with you; praise God therefore. For not of any favor
of mine, but by the will of our God I came; wherefore praise him for ever. All these days I
did appear unto you; but I did neither eat nor drink, but ye did see a vision. Now therefore
give God thanks: for I go up to him that sent me.'" "And when they arose, they saw him no more."

The picture shows us the moment when the angel suddenly rises from the midst of the little
company and strikes out on his flight through the air like a strong swimmer. Tobit and Tobias
fall on their knees without, while Anna and the bride Sara stand in the open door with the
frightened little dog cowering beside them. The older people are overcome with wonder and awe,
but Tobias and Sara, more bold, follow the radiant vision with rapturous gaze.

IV

THE RAT KILLER

The pictures we have examined thus far in this collection have been reproductions from Rembrandt's
paintings. You will see at once that the picture of the Rat Killer is of another kind. The
figures and objects are indicated by lines instead of by masses of color. You would call it
a drawing, and it is in fact a drawing of one kind, but properly speaking, an etching. An etching
is a drawing made on copper by means of a needle. The etcher first covers the surface of the
metal with a layer of some waxy substance and draws his picture through this coating, or "etching
ground," as it is called. Next he immerses the copper plate in an acid bath which "bites,"
or grooves, the metal along the lines he has drawn without affecting the parts protected by
the etching ground.

The plate thus has a picture cut into its surface, and impressions of this picture may be taken
by filling the lines with ink and pressing wet paper to the surface of the plate. You will
notice that the difference between the work of an engraver and that of an etcher is that the
former cuts the lines in his plate with engraving tools, while the latter only draws his picture
on the plate and the acid cuts the lines. The word etching is derived from the Dutch etzen,
and the most famous etchers in the world have been among Dutch and German artists.

Rembrandt is easily first of these, and we should have but a limited idea of his work if we
did not examine some of his pictures of this kind. Impressions made directly from the original
plates, over two centuries ago, are, of course, very rare and valuable, and are carefully preserved
in the great libraries and museums of the world. There is a collection in the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, where this etching of the Rat Killer may be seen.

The Rat Killer is one of many subjects from the scenes of common life which surrounded the
artist. In smaller towns and villages, then as well as now, there were no large shops where
goods were to be bought. Instead, all sorts of peddlers and traveling mechanics went from house
to house--the knife grinder, the ragman, the fiddler, and many others. This picture of the
Rat Killer suggests a very odd occupation. The pest of rats is, of course, much greater in
old than in new countries. In Europe, and perhaps particularly in the northern countries of
Holland and Germany, the old towns and villages have long been infested with these troublesome
creatures.

There are some curious legends about them. One relates how a certain Bishop Hatto, as a judgment
for his sins, was attacked by an army of rats which swam across the Rhine and invaded him in
his island tower, where they made short work of their victim.[4] Another tells how a town called
Hamelin was overrun with rats until a magic piper appeared who so charmed them with his enchanted
music that they gathered about him and followed his leading till they came to the river and
were drowned.[5]

[Footnote 4: See Southey's poem, Bishop Hatto.]

[Footnote 5: See Browning's poem, The Pied Piper of Hamelin.]

The old Rat Killer in the picture looks suspiciously like a magician. It seems as if he must
have bewitched the rats which crawl friskily about him, one perching on his shoulders. He reminds
one of some ogre out of a fairy tale, with his strange tall cap, his kilted coat, and baggy
trousers, the money pouch at his belt, the fur mantle flung over one shoulder, and the fierce-looking
sword dangling at his side. But there is no magic in his way of killing rats. He has some rat
poison to sell which his apprentice, a miserable little creature, carries in a large box.

The picture gives us an idea of an old Dutch village street. The cottages are built very low,
with steep overhanging roofs. The walls are of thick masonry, for these were days when in small
villages and outlying districts "every man's house was his castle," that is, every man's house
was intended, first of all, as a place of defense against outlawry.

The entrance doors were made in two sections, an upper and a lower part, or wing, each swinging
on its own hinges. Whenever a knock came, the householder could open the upper wing and address
the caller as through a window, first learning who he was and what his errand, before opening
the lower part to admit him. Thus an unwelcome intruder could not press his way into the house
by the door's being opened at his knock, and the family need not be taken unawares. In many
of our modern houses we see doors made after the same plan, and known as "Dutch doors."

The cautious old man in the picture has no intention of being imposed upon by wandering fakirs.
He has opened only the upper door and leans on the lower wing, as on a gate, while he listens
to the Rat Killer's story. The latter must have a marvellous tale to tell of the effects of
the poison, from the collection of dead rats which he carries as trophies in the basket fastened
to the long pole in his hand. But the householder impatiently pushes his hand back, and turns
away as if with disgust. The apprentice, grotesque little rat himself, looks up rather awestruck
at this grand, turbaned figure above him.

V

THE PHILOSOPHER IN MEDITATION

Ever since the beginning of human history there have been people who puzzled their brains about
the reasons of things. Why things are as they are, whence we came, and whither we are going
are some of the perplexing questions they have tried to answer. Some men have given all their
lives to the study of these problems as a single occupation or profession. Among the ancient
Greeks, who were a very intellectual nation, such men were quite numerous and were held in
great esteem as teachers. They were called philosophers, that is, lovers of wisdom, and this
word has been passed down to our own times in various modern languages.

In the passing of the centuries men found more and more subjects to think about. Some studied
the movements of the stars and tried to discover if they had any influence in human affairs.
These men were called astrologers, and they drew plans, known as horoscopes, mapping out the
future destiny of persons as revealed by the position of the constellations. There were other
men who examined the various substances of which the earth is composed, putting them together
to make new things. These were alchemists, and their great ambition was to find some preparation
which would change baser metals into gold. This hoped-for preparation was spoken of as the
"philosopher's stone."

Now modern learning has changed these vague experiments into exact science; astronomy has replaced
astrology, and chemistry has taken the place of alchemy. Nevertheless these changes were brought
about only very gradually, and in the 17th century, when Rembrandt lived and painted this picture,
a great stir was made by the new ideas of astronomy taught by Galileo in Italy, and the new
discoveries in chemistry made by Van Helmont in Belgium. Many philosophers still held to the
old beliefs of astrology and alchemy.

It is not likely that Rembrandt had any one philosopher in mind as the subject of his picture.
That his philosopher is something of a scholar, we judge from the table at which he sits, littered
with writing materials. Yet he seems to care less for reading than for thinking, as he sits
with hands clasped in his lap and his head sunk upon his breast. He wears a loose, flowing
garment like a dressing-gown, and his bald head is protected by a small skull cap. His is an
ideal place for a philosopher's musings. The walls are so thick that they shut out all the
confusing noise of the world. A single window lets in light enough to read by through its many
tiny panes. It is a bare little room, to be sure, with its ungarnished walls and stone-paved
floor, but if a philosopher has the ordinary needs of life supplied he wants no luxuries. He
asks for nothing more than quiet and uninterrupted leisure in which to pursue his meditations.

Our philosopher is well taken care of; for while his thoughts are on higher things and eternal
truths, an old woman is busy at the fire in the corner. Evidently she looks after the material
and temporal things of life. She kneels on the hearth and hangs a kettle over the cheerful
blaze. The firelight glows on her face and gleams here and there on the brasses hanging in
the chimney-piece above. Here is promise of something good to come, and when the philosopher
is roused from his musings there will be a hot supper ready for him.

There are two mysteries in the room which arouse our curiosity. In the wall behind the philosopher's
chair is a low, arched door heavily built with large hinges. Does this lead to some subterranean
cavern, and what secret does it contain? Is it a laboratory where, with alembic and crucible,
the philosopher searches the secrets of alchemy and tries to find the "philosopher's stone?"
Is some hid treasure stored up there, as precious and as hard to reach as the hidden truths
the philosopher tries to discover?

At the right side of the room a broad, winding staircase rises in large spirals and disappears
in the gloom above. We follow it with wondering eyes which try to pierce the darkness and see
whither it leads. Perhaps there is an upper chamber with windows open to the sky whence the
philosopher studies the stars. This place with its winding staircase would be just such an
observatory as an astrologer would like. Indeed it suggests at once the tower on the hillside
near Florence where Galileo passed his declining years.

Our philosopher, too, is an old man; his hair has been whitened by many winters, his face traced
over with many lines of thought. Even if his problems have not all been solved he has found
rich satisfaction in his thinking; the end of his meditations is peace. The day is drawing
to a close. The waning light falls through the window and illumines the philosopher's venerable
face. It throws the upper spiral of the stairway into bold relief, and brings out all the beautiful
curves in its structure. The bare little room is transfigured. This is indeed a fit dwelling-place
for a philosopher whose thoughts, penetrating dark mysteries, are at last lighted by some gleams
of the ideal.

VI

THE GOOD SAMARITAN

The story of the Good Samaritan was related by Jesus to a certain lawyer as a parable, that
is, a story to teach a moral lesson.

[Footnote 6: St. Luke, chapter x. verses 30-37.]

The point of the story is very plain, and when Jesus asked the lawyer which one of the three
passers-by was a neighbor to the wounded man, he was forced to reply, "He that shewed mercy."
Then said Jesus simply, "Go, and do thou likewise."

Though the scene of the story is laid in Palestine, it is the sort of incident which one can
imagine taking place in any country or period of time. So it seems perfectly proper that Rembrandt,
in representing the subject, should show us an old Dutch scene. The etching illustrates that
moment when the Good Samaritan arrives at the inn, followed by the wounded traveler mounted
on his horse.

The building is a quaint piece of architecture with arched doors and windows. That it was built
with an eye to possible attacks from thieves and outlaws, we may see from the small windows
and thick walls of masonry, which make it look like a miniature fortress. This is a lonely
spot, and inns are few and far between. The plaster is cracking and crumbling from the surface,
and the whole appearance of the place does not betoken great thrift on the part of the owners.
On the present occasion, during the working hours of the day, doors and windows are open after
the hospitable manner of an inn.

The host stands in the doorway, greeting the strangers, and the Good Samaritan is explaining
the situation to him. In the mean time the inn servants have come forward: the hostler's boy
holds the horse by the bridle, while a man lifts off the wounded traveler.

About the dooryard are the usual signs of life. In the rear a woman draws water from a well,
lowering the bucket from the end of a long well-sweep, heedless of the stir about the door.
Fowl scratch about in search of food, and there is a dog at one side. Some one within looks
with idle curiosity from the window into the yard. It is little touches like these which give
the scene such vividness and reality.

There is also a remarkable expressiveness in the figures which tells the story at a glance.
You can see just what the Good Samaritan is saying, as he gestures with his left hand, and
you can guess the inn-keeper's reply. Already he has put the proffered money into the wallet
he carries at his belt, and listens attentively to the orders given him. He may privately wonder
at his guest's singular kindness to a stranger, but with him business is business, and his
place is to carry out his guest's wishes.

You see how the hostler's boy magnifies his office, swaggering with legs wide apart. Even the
feather in his cap bristles with importance. This bit of comedy contrasts with the almost tragic
expression of the wounded man. The stolid fellow who lifts him seems to hurt him very much,
and he clasps his hands in an agony of pain. He seems to be telling the gentleman at the window
of his recent misfortune.

To study the picture more critically, it will be interesting to notice how the important figures
are massed together in the centre, and how the composition is built into a pyramid. Draw a
line from the inn-keeper's head down the stairway at the left, and follow the outline of the
Good Samaritan's right shoulder along the body of the wounded traveler, and you have the figure.
This pyramidal form is emphasized again by the wainscot of the stairway at the left, and the
well-sweep at the right.

To appreciate fully the character of the etching, one must examine attentively all the different
kinds of lines which produce the varying effects of light and shadow. Below the picture Rembrandt
wrote his name and the date 1633, with two Latin words meaning that he designed and etched
the plate himself. This would seem to show that he was well pleased with his work, and it is
interesting to learn that the great German poet, Goethe, admired the composition extravagantly.

VII

THE PRESENTATION IN THE TEMPLE

The story which the picture of the Presentation illustrates is a story of the infancy of Jesus
Christ. According to the custom of the Jews at that time, every male child was "presented,"
or dedicated, to the Lord when about a month old. Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judæa, a small
town about four miles from the city of Jerusalem, the Jewish capital, where the temple was.
When he was about a month old, his mother Mary and her husband Joseph, who were devout Jews,
brought him to the great city for the ceremony of the presentation in the temple. Now the temple
was a great place of worship where many religious ceremonies were taking place all the time.

Ordinarily, a party coming up from the country for some religious observance would not attract
any special attention among the worshippers. But on the day when the infant Jesus was presented
in the temple, a very strange thing occurred. The evangelist St. Luke[7] relates the circumstances.

In the picture we find ourselves, as it were, among the worshippers in the temple, looking
at the group on the pavement in front of us--Mary and Joseph and Simeon, kneeling before a
priest, with two or three onlookers. It is a Gothic cathedral, in whose dim recesses many people
move hither and thither. At the right is a long flight of steps leading to a throne, which
is overshadowed by a huge canopy. At the top of the steps we see the high priest seated with
hands outstretched, receiving the people who throng up the stairway. It was towards this stairway
that Mary and Joseph were making their way, when the aged Simeon first saw them, and recognized
in the child they carried the one he had long expected. Taking the babe from his mother's arms,
he kneels on the marble-tiled pavement and raises his face to heaven in thanksgiving. His embroidered
cymar, or robe, falls about him in rich folds as he clasps his arms about the tiny swaddled figure.

Mary has dropped on her knees beside him, listening to his words with happy wonder. Joseph,
just beyond, looks on with an expression of inquiry. He carries two turtle doves as the thank
offering required of the mother by the religious law. His unkempt appearance and bare feet
contrast with the neat dress of Mary. The tall priest standing before them extends his hands
towards the group in a gesture of benediction. A broad ray of light gleams on his strange headdress,
lights up his outstretched hand, and falls with dazzling brilliancy upon the soft round face
of the babe, the smiling mother, and the venerable Simeon with flowing white hair and beard.

There are but few people to pay any heed to the strange incident. Two or three of those who
climb the stairway turn about and stare curiously at the group below. There are three others
still more interested. One man behind puts his turbaned head over Simeon's shoulders, peering
inquisitively at the child, as if trying to see what the old man finds so remarkable in him.
Beyond, two old beggars approach with a sort of good-natured interest. They are quaintly dressed,
one of them wearing a very tall cap. Such humble folk as these alone seem to have time to notice
others' affairs.

It must not be supposed that this scene very closely represents the actual event it illustrates.
The painter Rembrandt knew nothing about the architecture of the old Jewish temple destroyed
many centuries before. A Gothic cathedral was the finest house of worship known to him, so
he thought out the scene as it would look in such surroundings. The people coming and going
were such as he saw about him daily; the beggars looking at the Christ-child were the beggars
of Amsterdam, and the men seated in the wooden settle at the right were like the respectable
Dutch burghers of his acquaintance. It was like translating the story from Aramaic to Dutch,
but in the process nothing is lost of its original touching beauty.

In studying the picture, you must notice how carefully all the figures are painted, even the
very small ones in the darkest parts of the composition. The beautiful contrast, between the
light on the central group and the soft dimness of the remoter parts of the cathedral, illustrates
a style of work for which Rembrandt was very famous, and which we shall often see in his pictures.

VIII

CHRIST PREACHING

We read in the evangelists' record of the life of Jesus that he went about the country preaching
the gospel (or the good news) of the kingdom of Heaven. Sometimes he preached in the synagogue
on the Sabbath day; but more often he talked to the people in the open air, sometimes on the
mountain-side, sometimes on the shore of the lake Gennesaret, or again in the streets of their
towns.

The scribes and Pharisees were jealous of his popularity, and angry because he exposed their
hypocrisy. The proud and rich found many of his sayings too hard to accept. So it was the poor
and unhappy who were most eager to hear him, and they often formed a large part of his audience.
Jesus himself rejoiced in this class of followers, and when John the Baptist's messengers came
to him to inquire into his mission, he sent back the message, "The poor have the gospel preached
to them."

In this picture of Christ Preaching, we see that his hearers are of just the kind that the
preacher's message is intended for,--the weary and heavy-laden whom he called to himself. There
are a few dignitaries in the gathering, it is true, standing pompously by in the hope of finding
something to criticise. But Jesus pays no attention to them as he looks down into the faces
of the listeners who most need his words. His pulpit is a square coping-stone in a courtyard,
and the people gather about him in a circle in the positions most convenient to them.

There is no formality here, no ceremony; each one may come and go as he pleases. Here is a
mother sitting on the ground directly in front of the speaker, holding a babe in her arms,
while a little fellow sprawls out on the ground beside her, drawing on the sand with his finger.
Though we cannot see her face, we know that she is an absorbed listener, and Jesus seems to
speak directly to her.

A pathetic-looking man beyond her is trying to take in the message in a wondering way, and
a long-bearded man behind him is so aroused that he leans eagerly forward to catch every word.
There are others, as is always the case, who listen very stolidly as if quite indifferent.

Again there are two who ponder the subject thoughtfully. One of these is in the rear,--a young
man, perhaps one of Jesus' disciples; the other sits in front, crossing his legs, and supporting
his chin with his hand. In the group at the right of Jesus we can easily pick out the scoffers
and critics, listening intently, some of them more interested, perhaps, than they had expected
to be.

As we look at Jesus himself, so gentle and tender, raising both hands as if to bless the company,
we feel sure that he is speaking some message of comfort. One day when he was reading the Scriptures
in the synagogue at Capernaum, he selected a passage which described his own work, and which
perfectly applies to this picture.

It is a noticeable fact that the figures in this picture of Christ preaching are Dutch types.
If you think that this is a strange way to illustrate scenes which took place in Palestine
many centuries ago, you must remember that the picture was drawn by a Dutchman who knew nothing
of Palestine, and indeed little of any country outside his own Holland. He wished to make the
life of Christ seem real and vivid to his own countrymen; and the only way he could do this
was to represent the scenes in the surroundings most familiar to himself and to them. The artist
was simply trying to imagine what Jesus would do if he had come to Amsterdam in the seventeenth
century, instead of to Jerusalem in the first century; somewhat as certain modern writers have
tried to think what would take place "If Jesus came to Chicago," or "If Jesus came to Boston,"
in the nineteenth century. The sweet gentleness in the face of Christ and the eager attention
of the people show how well Rembrandt understood the real meaning of the New Testament.

This picture is worthy of very special study because it is reckoned by critics one of the best
of Rembrandt's etchings. One enthusiastic writer[8] says that "the full maturity of his genius
is expressed in every feature." One must know a great deal about the technical processes of
etching to appreciate fully all these excellencies; but even an inexperienced eye can see how
few and simple are the lines which produce such striking effects of light and shadow: a scratch
or two here, a few parallel lines drawn diagonally there; some coarse cross-hatching in one
place, closer hatching in another; now and then a spot of the black ink itself,--and the whole
scene is made alive, with Jesus standing in the midst, the light gleaming full upon his figure.

[Footnote 8: Michel.]

IX

CHRIST AT EMMAUS

The picture of Christ at Emmaus illustrates an event in the narrative of Christ's life which
took place on the evening of the first Easter Sunday. It was now three days since the Crucifixion
of Christ just outside Jerusalem, and the terrible scene was still very fresh in the minds
of his disciples. It happened that late in the day two of them were going to a village called
Emmaus, not very far from Jerusalem. Then followed a conversation in which they told the stranger
something of Jesus, and he in turn explained to them many things about the life and character
of Jesus which they had never understood. And they said one to another, 'Did not our hearts
burn within us, while he talked with us by the way?'"

The picture suggests vividly to us that wonderful moment at Emmaus when the eyes of the disciples
were opened, and they recognized their guest as Jesus, whom they had so recently seen crucified.
The table is laid in a great bare room with the commonest furnishings, and the disciples appear
to be laboring men, accustomed to "plain living and high thinking." They are coarsely dressed,
and their feet are bare, as are also the feet of Jesus. One seems to have grasped the situation
more quickly than the other, for he folds his hands together, reverently gazing directly into
the face of Jesus. His companion, an older man, at the other end of the table, looks up astonished
and mystified. The boy who is bringing food to the table is busy with his task, and does not
notice any change in Jesus.

In the midst is Christ, "pale, emaciated, sitting facing us, breaking the bread as on the evening
of the Last Supper, in his pilgrim robe, with his blackened lips, on which the torture has
left its traces, his great brown eyes soft, widely opened, and raised towards heaven, with
his cold nimbus, a sort of phosphorescence around him which envelops him in an indefinable
glory, and that inexplicable look of a breathing human being who certainly has passed through
death."

This description is by a celebrated French critic,[10] himself a painter, who knows whereof
he speaks. He says that this picture alone is enough to establish the reputation of a man.

[Footnote 10: Fromentin, in Old Masters of Belgium and Holland.]

There is one artistic quality in the picture to which we must pay careful attention, as it
is particularly characteristic of Rembrandt. This is the way in which the light and shadow
are arranged, or what a critic would call the chiaroscuro of the picture. The heart of the
composition glows with a golden light which comes from some unseen source. It falls on the
white tablecloth with a dazzling brilliancy as if from some bright lamp. It gleams on the faces
of the company, bringing out their expressions clearly. The arched recess behind the table
is thrown into heavy shadow, against which the centrally lighted group is sharply contrasted.

This singular manner of bringing light and darkness into striking opposition makes the objects
in a picture stand out very vividly. Some one has defined chiaroscuro as the "art of rendering
the atmosphere visible and of painting an object enveloped in air." The art was carried to
perfection by Rembrandt. You will notice it more or less in every picture of this collection,
but nowhere is it more appropriate than here, where the appearance of Christ, as the source
of light, emphasizes the mystery of the event and makes something sacred of this common scene.

As we compare this picture with the etching of Christ Preaching, we get a better idea of Rembrandt's
aim in representing Christ. He did not try to make his face beautiful with regular classical
features, after the manner of the old Italian painters. He did not even think it necessary
to make his figure grand and imposing. Something still better Rembrandt sought to put into
his picture, and this was a gentle expression of love.

X

PORTRAIT OF SASKIA

We should have but a very imperfect idea of Rembrandt's work if we did not learn something
about the portraits he painted. It was for these that he was most esteemed in his own day,
being the fashionable portrait painter of Amsterdam at a time when every person of means wished
to have his likeness painted. A collection of his works of this kind would almost bring back
again the citizens of Amsterdam in the seventeenth century, so life-like are these wonderful
canvases. Among them we should find the various members of his family, his father and mother,
his sister, his servant, his son, and most interesting of all, his beloved wife, Saskia.

Saskia was born in Friesland, one of nine children of a wealthy patrician family. Her father,
Rombertus van Uylenborch, was a distinguished lawyer, who had had several important political
missions intrusted to him. At one time he was sent as a messenger to William of Orange, and
was sitting at table with that prince just before his assassination. He died in 1624, leaving
Saskia an orphan, as she had lost her mother five years before. The little girl of twelve now
began to live in turn with her married sisters. At the age of twenty she came to Amsterdam
to live for a while with her cousin, the wife of a minister, Jan Cornelis Sylvius, whose face
we know from one of Rembrandt's etchings. Saskia had also another cousin living in Amsterdam,
Hendrick van Uylenborch, a man of artistic tastes, who had not succeeded as a painter, and
had become a dealer in bric-à-brac and engravings. He was an old friend of Rembrandt; and when
the young painter came to seek his fortune in the great city in 1631, he had made his home
for a while with the art dealer.

It was doubtless Hendrick who introduced Rembrandt to Saskia. Probably the beginning of their
acquaintance was through Rembrandt's painting Saskia's portrait in 1632. The relation between
them soon grew quite friendly, for in the same year the young girl sat two or three times again
to the painter. The friendship presently ended in courtship, and when Rembrandt pressed his
suit the marriage seemed a very proper one. Saskia was of a fine family and had a sufficient dowry.

Rembrandt, though the son of a miller, was already a famous painter, much sought after for
portraits, and with a promising career before him. The engagement was therefore approved by
her guardians, but marriage being deferred till she came of age, the courtship lasted two happy
years. During this time Rembrandt painted his lady love over and over again. It was one of
his artistic methods to paint the same person many times. He was not one of the superficial
painters who turn constantly from one model to another in search of new effects. He liked to
make an exhaustive study of a single face in many moods, with many expressions and varied by
different costumes.

Saskia had small eyes and a round nose, and was not at all beautiful according to classical
standards. Rembrandt, however, cared less for beauty than for expression, and Saskia's face
was very expressive, at times merry and almost roguish, and again quite serious. She had also
a brilliant complexion and an abundance of silky hair, waving from her forehead. The painter
had collected in his studio many pretty and fantastic things to use in his pictures,--velvets
and gold embroidered cloaks, Oriental stuffs, laces, necklaces, and jewels. With these he loved
to deck Saskia, heightening her girlish charms with the play of light upon these adornments.

One of the most famous of the many portraits of Saskia at this time is the picture we have
here. Because it is not signed and dated, after Rembrandt's usual custom, it is thought that
it was intended as a gift for Saskia herself, and thus it has a romantic interest for us. Also
it is painted with extreme care, as the work of a lover offering the choicest fruit of his art.

The artist has arranged a picturesque costume for his sitter,--a broad-brimmed hat of red velvet
with a sweeping white feather, an elaborate dress with embroidered yoke and full sleeves, a
rich mantle draped over one shoulder, necklace, earrings, and bracelets of pearls. Her expression
is more serious here than usual, though very happy, as if she was thinking of her lover; and
in her hand she carries a sprig of rosemary, which in Holland is the symbol of betrothal, holding
it near her heart.

The marriage finally took place in June, 1634, in the town of Bildt. The bridal pair then returned
to Amsterdam to a happy home life. Rembrandt had no greater pleasure than in the quiet family
circle, and Saskia had a simple loving nature, entirely devoted to her husband's happiness.
A few years later Rembrandt moved into a fine house in the Breestraat, which he furnished richly
with choice paintings and works of art.

A succession of portraits shows that the painter continued to paint his wife with loving pride.
He represented her as a Jewish bride, as Flora, as an Odalisque, a Judith, a Susanna, and a
Bathsheba. There is one painting of the husband and wife together, Saskia perched like a child
on Rembrandt's knee, as he flourishes a wine-glass in the air. In another picture (an etching)
they sit together at a table about the evening lamp, the wife with her needle-work, the artist
with his engraving. The love between them is the brightest spot in Rembrandt's history, clouded
as it was with many disappointments and troubles. As a celebrated writer has expressed it,
Saskia was "a ray of sunshine in the perpetual chiaroscuro of his life."

XI

THE SORTIE OF THE CIVIC GUARD, OR THE NIGHT WATCH

The patriotism of the Dutch is seen through the entire history of "brave little Holland." Early
in the sixteenth century every town of considerable size had a military company composed of
the most prominent citizens. Each company, or guild, had a place of assembly, or doelen, and
a drilling-ground. The officers were chosen for a year, and the highest appointments were those
of captain, lieutenant, and ensign. Upon these civic guards rested the responsibility of maintaining
the order and safety of the town. Sterner duties than these were theirs when in the late sixteenth
century (1573), at the call of William of Orange, the various guilds formed themselves into
volunteer companies to resist the Spanish. How well they acquitted themselves is a matter of
history, and Spain recognized the republic in the treaty of 1609. After the war, many of the
corporations were reorganized and continued to be of great importance in the seventeenth century.

The picture we have here represents the Civic Guard of Amsterdam during the captaincy of Frans
Banning Cocq in 1642. Cocq was a man of wealth and influence who had purchased the estate of
Purmerland in 1618 and had also been granted a patent of nobility. So it was natural that Lord
Purmerland, one of the most distinguished citizens of the town, should be called to a term
of office as captain of the Civic Guard. His magnificent stature and manly bearing show him
well fitted for the honor.

The picture represents an occasion when the guard issues from the assembly hall, or doelen,
in a sudden call to action. Captain Cocq leads the way with Lieutenant Willem van Ruytenberg,
of Vlaerdingen, and as he advances gives orders to his fellow officer. The drum beats, the
ensign unfurls the standard, every man carries a weapon of some sort. One is priming a musket,
another loading his gun, another firing. A mass of lance-bearers press on from the rear. In
the confusion a dog scampers into the midst and barks furiously at the drum. A little girl
slips into the crowd on the other side, oddly out of place in such company, but quite fearless.
It has been suggested that she may have been the bearer of the tidings which calls the guard
forth. The quaint figure is clad in a long dress of some shimmering stuff, and she has the
air of a small princess. From her belt hangs a cock, and she turns her face admiringly towards
the great captain.

We do not know of any historical incident which precisely corresponds to the action in the
picture. Indeed, it is not strictly speaking an historical picture at all, but rather a portrait
group of the Civic Guard, in attitudes appropriate to their character as a military body. They
may be going out for target practice or for a shooting match such as was held annually as a
trial of skill; it may be a parade, or it may be, as some have fancied, a call to arms against
a sudden attack from the enemy. In any case the noticeable thing is the readiness with which
all respond to the call--the spirit of patriotism which animates the body. The Dutch are not
naturally warlike, but rather a peace-loving people; lacking the quick impulsiveness of a more
nervous race, they are of a somewhat heavy and deliberate temper; yet they have the solid worth
which can be counted on in an emergency, and in love of country they are united to a man. Benjamin
Franklin once said of Holland, "In love of liberty, and bravery in the defense of it, she has
been our great example."

The picture cannot be fully understood without some knowledge of its history. Painted for the
hall of the Amsterdam Musketeers, it was to take its place among others by contemporary painters,
as a portrait group in honor of the officers of the year, and as a lasting memorial of their
services. The other pictures had been stiff groups about a table, and the novelty of Rembrandt's
composition displeased some of the members of the guild. Each person who figures in the scene
had subscribed a certain sum towards the cost of the picture for his own portrait, and was
anxious to get his money's worth. Consequently, there were many who did not at all relish their
insignificance in the background, quite overshadowed by the glory of the captain and lieutenant.
They thought they would have shown to much better advantage arranged in rows.

It was Rembrandt's way when painting a portrait to give life and reality to the figure, by
showing the leading element in the character or occupation of the person. Thus his shipbuilder
is designing a ship, the writing master, Coppenol, is mending a pen, the architect has his
drawing utensils, and the preacher his Bible. So in the Civic Guard each man carries a weapon,
and the figures are united in spirited action. All this artistic motive was lost upon those
for whom the picture was painted, because of their petty vanity. So the great painting, now
so highly esteemed, was not a success at the time.

In the following century it was removed to the town hall; and in order to fit it into a particular
place on the wall, a strip was cut off each side the canvas. It is the loss of these margins
which gives the composition the crowded appearance which so long seemed a strange fault in
a great artist like Rembrandt.

The original colors of the painting grew so dark with the accumulation of smoke in the hall
that the critics supposed the scene occurred at night, hence the incorrect name of the Night
Watch was given to it. Since the picture was cleaned, in 1889, it is apparent that the incident
occurred in the daytime, and if you look carefully you can plainly see the shadow of Captain
Cocq's hand on the lieutenant's tunic.

XII

PORTRAIT OF JAN SIX

When the painter Rembrandt came to Amsterdam in 1631, a young man seeking his fortune in the
great city, a lad of twelve years was living in his father's country seat, near by, who was
later to become one of his warm friends. This was Jan Six, the subject of the portrait etching
reproduced here. There was a great contrast in the circumstances of life in which the two friends
grew up. Rembrandt was the son of a miller, and had his own way to make in the world. Jan Six
was surrounded from his earliest years with everything which tended to the gratification of
his natural taste for culture. Rembrandt's rare talent, however, overbalanced any lack of early
advantages, and made him a friend worth having.

Six had come of Huguenot ancestry. His grandfather had fled to Holland during the Huguenot
persecution in France, and had become a resident in Amsterdam in 1585. Jan's father, another
Jan, had married a Dutch lady of good family, whose maiden name was Anna Wijmer. It was in
the service of this good lady that we first hear of Rembrandt's connection with the Six family.
He was called to paint her portrait in 1641, and must have then, if not before, made the acquaintance
of her young son, Jan. Jan united to a great love of learning a love of everything beautiful,
and was an ardent collector of objects of art. Paintings of the old Italian and early Dutch
schools, rare prints and curios of various kinds, were his delight. He found in Rembrandt a
man after his own heart. Already the painter had gone far beyond his means in filling his own
house with costly works of art. So the two men, having a hobby in common, found a strong bond
of union in their congenial tastes. We may be sure that they were often together, to show their
new purchases and discuss their beauty.

Rembrandt, as an older and more experienced collector, would doubtless have good advice to
offer his younger friend, and, an artist himself, would know how to judge correctly a work
of art. One record of their friendship in these years is a little etched landscape which Rembrandt
made in 1641, showing a bridge near the country estate of the Six family, a place called Elsbroek,
near the village of Hillegom.

It was in 1647 that Rembrandt made this portrait of his friend, then twenty-nine years of age.
Six had now begun to make a name for himself in the world of letters as a scholar and poet.
He had already published a poem on Muiderberg (a village near Amsterdam), and by this time,
doubtless, had under way his great literary work, the tragedy of Medæa. Many were the times
when Rembrandt, coming to his house to talk over some new treasure-trove, found him in his
library with his head buried in a book, and his thoughts far away. It was in such a moment
that he must have had the idea of this beautiful portrait. He catches his friend one day in
the corner of his library, standing with his back to the window to get the light on the book
he is reading. He transfers the picture to a copper plate and hands it down to future generations.

The slender figure of the young man is clad in the picturesque dress of a gentleman of his
time, with knee-breeches and low shoes, with wide white collar and cuffs. His abundant wavy
blond hair falls to his shoulders; he has the air of a true poet. In his eagerness to read,
he has flung his cavalier's cloak on the window seat behind him, a part of it dropping upon
a chair beyond. Its voluminous folds make a cushion for him, as he leans gracefully against
the window ledge. His sword and belt lie on the chair with the cloak. For the moment the pen
is mightier than the sword. The furnishings of the room show the owner's tastes; a pile of
folio volumes fill a low chair, an antique picture hangs on the wall.

The young man's face is seen by the light reflected from the pages of his open book. It is
a refined, sensitive face, of high intellectual cast, amiable withal, and full of imagination.
He is completely absorbed in his reading, a smile playing about his mouth. How little of a
fop and how much of a poet he is, we see from his disordered collar. Breathing quickly as he
bends over his book, in his excitement he cannot endure the restraint of a close collar. He
has unloosed it, as, quite oblivious of any untidiness in his appearance, he hurries on, ruthlessly
crushing the pages of the folio back, as he grasps it in his hand.

The friendship between Six and Rembrandt seemed to grow apace; for when the tragedy of Medæa
was published, in 1648, it was illustrated by a magnificent etching by Rembrandt, representing
the Marriage of Jason and Creusa.

The literary work of Jan Six led the way to various public honors. In 1656 he became commissioner
of marriages; in 1667, a member of the Council of the States General of Holland, and in 1691,
burgomaster of Amsterdam. His continued friendship for Rembrandt was shown in his purchasing
a number of the latter's paintings. Rembrandt at length painted a magnificent portrait of his
friend in his old age, which, with the portrait of his mother and the original plate for this
etching, still remains in the Six family in Amsterdam. Referring to the portrait of Jan Six,
the famous Dutch poet, Vondel, contemporary of Rembrandt and Six, paid a fitting tribute to
the great burgomaster, as a "lover of science, art, and virtue."

XII

PORTRAIT OF AN OLD WOMAN

The story is told of a little child who, upon being introduced to a kind-faced lady, looked
up brightly into her eyes with the question, "Whose mother are you?" When we look into the
wrinkled old face of this picture, the same sort of a question springs to mind, and we involuntarily
ask, "Whose grandmother are you?" We are sure that children and grandchildren have leaned upon
that capacious lap. The name of the subject is not known, though the same face appears many
times in Rembrandt's works. But there are many people whose names we can quote, of whom we
know much less than of this old woman.

The story of her life is written in the picture. Those clasped hands, large and knotted, have
done much hard work. They have ministered to the needs of two generations. They have dandled
the baby on her knee, and supported the little toddler taking his first steps. They have tended
the child and wrought for the youth. They have built the fire on the hearth and swept out the
house; they have kneaded the bread and filled the kettle; they have spun and woven, and sewed
and mended. They have not even shrunk from the coarser labors of dooryard and field, the care
of the cattle, the planting and harvesting. But labor has done nothing to coarsen the innate
refinement of the soul which looks out of the fine old face.

She is resting now. The children and grandchildren have grown up to take care of themselves
and their grandmother also. She has time to sit down in the twilight of life, just as she used
to sit down at the close of each day's work, to think over what has happened. She has a large
comfortable chair, and she is neatly dressed, as befits an old woman whose life work is done.
A white kerchief is folded across her bosom, a shawl is wrapped about her shoulders, and a
hood droops over her forehead. Her thoughts are far away from her present surroundings; something
sad occupies them. She dreams of the past and perhaps also of the future. Sorrow as well as
work has had a large share in her life, but she has borne it all with patient resignation.
She is not one to complain, and does not mean to trouble others with her sadness. But left
all alone with her musings, a look of yearning comes into her eyes as for something beautiful
and much loved, lost long ago.

Some painters have been at great pains to fashion a countenance sorrowful enough and patient
enough to represent the subject of the Mater Dolorosa, that is, the Sorrowing Mother of Christ.
Perhaps they would have succeeded better if they had turned away from their own imaginations
to some mother in real life, who has loved and worked and suffered like this one. The face
answers in part our first question. A woman like this is capable of mothering great sons. Industrious,
patient, self-sacrificing, she would spare herself nothing to train them faithfully. And the
life of which her face speaks--a life of self-denying toil, ennobled by high ideals of duty--is
the stuff of which heroes are made. Some of the great men of history had such mothers.

The picture illustrates the fact that a face may be interesting and even artistic, if not beautiful.
This idea may surprise many, for when one calls a person "as pretty as a picture," it seems
to be understood that it is only pretty people who make suitable models for pictures. Rembrandt,
however, was of quite another mind. He was a student of character as well as a painter, and
he cared to paint faces more for their expression than for beauty of feature.

Now the expression of a face is to a great extent the index of character. We say that the child
has "no character in his face," meaning that his skin is still fair and smooth, before his
thoughts and feelings have made any record there. Gradually the character impresses itself
on his face. Experience acts almost like a sculptor's chisel, carving lines of care and grooving
furrows of sorrow, shaping the mouth and the setting of the eyes.

The longer this process continues, the more expressive the face becomes, so that it is the
old whose faces tell the most interesting stories of life. Rembrandt understood this perfectly,
and none ever succeeded better than he in revealing the poetry and beauty of old age.

His way of showing the character in the face of this old woman is very common with him. The
high light of the picture is concentrated on the face and is continued down upon the snowy
kerchief. This forms a diamond of light shading by gradations into darker tints. It was the
skillful use of light and shadow in the picture, which made a poetic and artistic work of a
subject which another painter might have made very commonplace.

XIV

THE SYNDICS OF THE CLOTH GUILD

The word syndic is a name applied to an officer of a corporation, and this is its meaning in
the title of the picture, The Syndics of the Cloth Guild. In Holland, as in England and France
and elsewhere in Europe, guilds were associations of tradesmen or artisans united for purposes
of mutual help and for the interests of their respective industries. In some points they were
the forerunners of modern trades unions, except that the members were proprietary merchants
and master craftsmen instead of employees, and their purpose was the advancement of commercial
interests in municipal affairs, instead of the protection of labor against capital. There were
guilds of mercers, wine merchants, goldsmiths, painters and many others.

Now the wool industry was one of the most important in Holland, hence the Guild of Drapers
or Cloth Workers was a dignified association in several cities. There was one in Leyden, where
Rembrandt was born, and another in Amsterdam, where he passed the most of his life. Amsterdam
was at that time the foremost commercial city of Europe. Its guilds had fine halls, ornamented
with works of art painted by the best contemporary artists. It was for this purpose that Rembrandt
received from the Amsterdam Cloth Guild the commission to paint a portrait group of their five
officers, and he accordingly delivered to them in 1661 the great picture of which we have this
little reproduction to examine.

Just as in the picture of the Civic Guard he had given life to the portraits, by showing the
members in some action appropriate to their military character, so here he represents the officers
of the guild in surroundings suggestive of their duties. They are gathered about a table covered
with a rich scarlet cloth, on which rests the great ledger of the corporation. They are engaged
in balancing their accounts and preparing a report for the year, and a servant awaits their
order in the rear of the apartment. Their task seems a pleasant one, for whatever difficulties
have arisen during their administration, it is evident that the outcome is successful. They
take a quiet satisfaction in the year's record.

It is as if in the midst of their consultations, as they turn the leaves of the ledger, we
suddenly open the door into the room. They are surprised but not disturbed by the intrusion,
and look genially towards the newcomers. The younger man at the end welcomes us with a smile.
Next to him is one who has been leaning over the book. He raises his head and meets our eyes
frankly and cordially. His companion continues his discourse, gesturing with the right hand.
The older men at one side give more attention to the arrival. One seated in the armchair smiles
good naturedly; the other, rising and leaning on the table, peers forward with a look of keen
inquiry.

As we examine the faces one by one, we could almost write a character study of each man, so
wonderfully does the portrait reveal the inner life--the placid amiability of one, the quiet
humor of another, the keen, incisive insight of a third. That they are all men of sound judgment
we may well believe, and they are plainly men to be trusted. The motto of the guild is a key
to their character: "Conform to your vows in all matters clearly within their jurisdiction;
live honestly; be not influenced in your judgments by favor, hatred, or personal interest."
These principles are at the foundation of the commercial prosperity for which Holland is noted.

The picture may be taken to illustrate a page in American history. It was the Dutch, as we
all remember, who founded the State of New York, and the fifty years of their occupation (1614-1664)
fell within the lifetime of Rembrandt. The fifteen thousand settlers, who came during this
time from Holland to America, brought with them the manners and customs of their home country.
The citizens of New Amsterdam were the counterparts of their contemporaries in the old Amsterdam.
We may see, then, in this picture of the Cloth Merchants of Amsterdam just such men as were
to be seen among our own colonists. In the broad-brimmed hat and the wide white collar we find
the same peculiarities of dress, and in their honest faces we read the same national traits.
It was to men like these that we owe a debt of gratitude for some of the best elements in our
national life. In the words of a historian,[11] "The republican Dutchmen gave New York its
tolerant and cosmopolitan character, insured its commercial supremacy, introduced the common
schools, founded the oldest day school and the first Protestant church in the United States,
and were pioneers in most of the ideas and institutions we boast of as distinctly American."

[Footnote 11: W. E. Griffis, in Brave Little Holland, pp. 212-213.]

If you fancy that it was quite accidental that the six figures of this picture are so well
arranged, and wonder why the art of Rembrandt should be so praised here, you may try an experiment
with your camera upon a group of six figures. In posing six persons in any order which is not
stiff, and getting them all to look with one accord and quite naturally towards a single point,
you will understand some of the many difficulties which Rembrandt overcame so simply.

XV

THE THREE TREES

Holland, as is well known, is a country built upon marshes, which have been drained and filled
in by the patient industry of many generations of workers. The land is consequently very low,
almost perfectly level, and is covered by a network of canals. It lacks many of the features
which make up the natural scenery of other countries,--mountains and ravines, rocks and rivers,--but
it is, nevertheless, a very picturesque country. Artists love it for the quiet beauty of its
landscape. Though this is not grand and awe-inspiring, it is restful and attractive.

We may well believe that the artistic nature of Rembrandt was sensitive to the influences of
his native Dutch scenery. Though his great forte in art lay in other directions, he paused
from time to time to paint or etch a landscape.

Even in this unaccustomed work he proved himself a master. He treated the subject much as he
did a portrait,--trying to bring out the character of the scene just as he brought out the
character in a face. How much of a story he could tell in a single picture we see in this famous
etching called The Three Trees.

One can tell at a glance that this is Holland. We look across a wide level stretch of land,
and the eye travels on and on into an almost endless distance. Far away we see the windmills
of a Dutch town outlined against the sky,--a sign of industry as important in Holland as are
factory chimneys in some other parts of the world. Beyond this, another endless level stretch
meets the sky at the horizon line. It is hard to distinguish the land and water, which seem
to lie in alternate strips. The pastures are surrounded by canals as by fences.

Here and there are cows grazing, and we are reminded of the fine dairy farms for which Holland
is noted, the rich butter and cheese, which are the product of these vast flat lands, apparently
so useless and unproductive. Directly in front of us, at the left, is a still pool, and on
the farther bank stands a fisherman holding a rod over the water. A woman seated on the bank
watches the process with intense interest. There are two other figures near by which can hardly
be discerned.

The wide outlook of flat country is the setting for the little tree-crowned hill which rises
near us at the right. It would seem a very small hillock anywhere else, but in these level
surroundings it has a distinct character. It is the one striking feature which gives expression
to the face of the landscape. The eye turns with pleasure to its grassy slopes and leafy trees.
The trees have the symmetrical grace so characteristic of Dutch vegetation. Nothing is allowed
to grow wild in this country. Every growing thing is carefully nurtured and trained. We see
that the distances between these trees were carefully spaced in the planting, so that each
one might develop independently and perfectly without injury to the others. The branches grow
from their straight trunks at the same height, and they are plainly of the same age. Their
outer branches interlace in brotherly companionship to make a solid leafy arbor, beneath which
the wayfarer may find a shady retreat. On the summit of the hill, outlined against the sky,
is a hay wagon followed by a man with a rake. At a distance, also clearly seen against the
sky, on the ridge of the hill, sits a man, alone and idle.

The sky is a wonderful part of the picture. Rembrandt, it appears, almost never ventured to
represent the clouds. He had the true artist's reverence for subjects which were beyond his
skill, and preferred to leave untouched what he could not do well. Now in this case, lacking
the experience to draw a sky as finished in workmanship as his landscape, he suggested in a
few lines the effect which he wished to produce. At the left a few diagonal strokes show a
smart shower just at hand. A whirl of dark-colored clouds comes next, and in the upper air
beyond, a stratum of clouds is indicated by a mass of lines crossing and recrossing in long
swirling curves.

With these few lines Rembrandt conveys perfectly the idea that a storm is approaching. The
clouds seem to be in motion, scurrying across the sky in advance of the rain. One imaginative
critic has thought that he could discern in the cloud-whirl a dim phantom figure as of the
spirit of the on-coming storm. Like the clouds we often see in nature, it takes some new fantastic
shape every time we look at it. Altogether the impression we receive is that of vivid reality.
The artist's few lines have produced with perfect success an effect, which might have been
entirely spoiled had he tried to finish it carefully.

We look once more at the landscape to see what influence the coming storm has upon it. The
fisherman pays no heed. The clouding of the sky only makes the fish bite better, and absorbed
in his sport he cares nothing for weather. The haymaker on the hilltop has a better chance
to read the face of the sky, and starts up his wagon. The three trees seem to feel the impending
danger. Their leafage is already darkening in the changed light, and they toss their branches
in the wind, as if to wrestle with the spirit of the storm.

XVI

THE PORTRAIT OF REMBRANDT

In studying the fifteen pictures of this collection, we have seen something of the work of
the great Dutch master, Rembrandt, and have learned a little of the man himself, of his love
for the sweet wife, Saskia, of his friendship with the cultured burgomaster, Jan Six, of his
faithful and reverent study of the Bible, of his rare insight into people's character. We are
ready now to look directly into the artist's own face, in a portrait by his own hand.

There are a great many portraits of Rembrandt etched and painted by himself. We have noticed
how fond he was of painting the same model many times, in order to make a thorough study of
the face, in varying moods and expressions. Now there was one sitter who was always at hand,
and ready to do his bidding. He had only to take a position in front of a mirror, and there
was this model willing to pose in any position and with any expression he desired. So obliging
a sitter could nowhere else be found; and thus it is that there is such a large collection
of his self-made portraits.

His habit of painting his own portrait gave him an opportunity to study all sorts of costume
effects. His patrons were plain, slow-going Dutchmen who did not want any "fancy" effects in
their portraits. They wished first of all a faithful likeness in such clothing as they ordinarily
wore. It was chiefly in his own portraits that Rembrandt had the satisfaction of painting the
rich and fanciful costumes he loved so well. He wore in turn all sorts of hats and caps, many
jewels and ornaments, and every variety of mantle, doublet, and cuirass. In this he was somewhat
like an actor taking the parts of many different characters. Sometimes he is an officer with
mustaches fiercely twisted, carrying his head with a dashing military air. Again he is a cavalier
wearing his velvet mantle, and plumed hat, with the languid elegance of a gentleman of leisure.
Sometimes he seems a mere country boor, a rough, unkempt fellow, with coarse features and a
heavy expression.

As we see him acting so many rôles, we may well wonder what the character of the man really
was. As a matter of fact, he was full of singular contradictions. In his personal habits he
was frugal and temperate to the last degree, preferring the simplest fare, and contenting himself
with a lunch of herring and cheese when occupied with his work. On the other hand, his artistic
tastes led him into reckless extravagance. He thought no price too great to pay for a choice
painting, or rare print, upon which he had set his heart. He was generous to a fault, fond
of his friends, yet living much alone.

In the portrait we have chosen for our frontispiece, we like to believe that we see Rembrandt,
the man himself. He wears one of his rich studio costumes, but the face which he turns to ours
is quite free from any affectation; a spirit of sincerity looks out of his kindly eyes. The
portrait is signed and dated 1640, so that the man is between thirty and thirty-five years
of age. This was the happiest period of Rembrandt's life, while his wife Saskia was still living
to brighten his home.

We see his contentment in his face. He has large mobile features, which have here settled into
an expression of genial repose. He has the dignified bearing of one whose professional success
entitles him to a just sense of self-satisfaction, but he is not posing as a great man. He
is still a simple-hearted miller's son, a man whom we should like to meet in his own family
circle, with his little ones playing about him. He is a man to whom children might run, sure
of a friendly welcome; he is a man whom strangers might trust, sure of his sincerity. It is,
in short, Rembrandt, with all the kindliest human qualities uppermost, which show us, behind
the artist, the man himself.

Amsterdam (Ăm'stẽrdăm).

Apocrypha (ȧ pŏḱrĭ fȧ).

Aramaic (Ărȧmā'ĭc̵).

Asenath (Āsē'năth).

Assyria (Ăssy̆r'ĭȧ).

Azarias (Ăzȧrī'ăs).

Bathsheba (Băthshē'bȧ).

Bethlehem (Bĕth'lēhĕm).

Bildt (bēlt).

Braun (brown). ̄ Breestraat (brā'strät).

burgher (bẽr'gẽr).

Capernaum (c̵āpẽr'nāŭm).

Cassel (käs'sĕl).

chiaroscuro (kyä rṓ sk[=oo]'rṓ).

Cleopas (c̵lē'ōpăs).

Cocq (kōk̄).

Coppenol (kŏp'pḗ nŏ).

Creusa (c̵rēū́sȧ).

cuirass (kwē räs').

cymar (sī mär').

doelen (d[=oo]'lĕn).

Ecbatane (ĕk băt'ȧ nŭ).

Elsbroek (ĕls'br[=oo]k).

Emmaus (Emmā'ŭs (or ĕm'mā ŭs)).

Enemessar (Enēmĕs'săr).

Ephraim (E'phrāĭm).

etzn (ĕt'zn̆).

Friesland (frēz'lȧnd).

Fromentin (frṓ-mŏN-tăN').

Gabael (Găb'ā̇ĕl (or gā̇'bā̇ ĕl)).

Galileo (Gălĭlē'ṓ).

Gennesaret (Ġĕnnĕs'ȧrĕt).

Goethe (ḡẽ'tŭ).

Hague (hāg).

Hamelin (hä'mĕ lĭn).

Hanfstaengl, Franz (hänf'stāngl fränts).

Hatto (hăt'ṓ).

Hillegom (hĭl'lḗ gŏm).

Israel (ĭz'rā̇-ĕl).

Jason (Jā'sŏn).

Jericho (Jĕr'ĭc̵hō).

Joden (yō'dĕn).

Lastman, Pieter (läst'män pē'tẽr).

Leyden (lī'dĕn).

Louvre (l[=oo]́vr).

Manasseh (mȧ năs'sŭ).

Manoah (Mā̇nō'ȧh).

Medæa (mḗ dē'ȧ).

Media (mē'dĭ ȧ).

Michel (mḗ shĕl').

Muiderberg (moi'de̯r bĕrg).

Nazareth (Năz'ȧrĕth).

Nineveh (nĭn'ḗ vŭ).

Odalisque (ō'dȧ lĭsk).

Padanaram (Pādȧnā'rȧm).

Palestine (Păl'ĕstīne).

Peniel (Pḗnī'ḗl).

Penuel (Pḗnū'ĕl).

Purmerland (Pŭr'mẽrlănd).

Rages (Rā'gēs).

Raguel (Rā̇gū'ĕl (or răg'ū ĕl)).

Raphael (rä'fā-ĕl).

Rembrandt (rĕm'brănt).

Ruytenberg, Willem van (roi'te̯n bĕrg wĭl'lĕm vän).

Ryks (Rȳks).

Saskia (säs'kḗ ȧ).

Sennacherib (Sĕnnăch'ḗrĭb).

Simeon (Sĭm'ē̇ŏn).

Six, Jan (sēx yän).

Stuttgart (st[)oo]t'gärt).

Sylvius, Jan Cornelis (sĭl'vḗ [)oo]s yän kṓr nē'lĭs).

Syndic (Sy̆n'dĭc̵).

Swanenburch (swä'nĕn b[)oo]rK).

Tigris (Tī'grĭs).

Tobias (Tṓbī'ăs).

Tobit (Tō'bĭt).

Trippenhuis (trĭp'pĕn hois).

Uylenborch, Rombertus van (oi'lĕn bṓrK rŏm bĕr't[)oo]s vän).

Vlaerdingen (vlär'dĭng ĕn).

Vondel (vŏn'dĕl).

Wijmer (wī'mẽr).

       *       *       *       *       *

