There was war on the bosom of Lake Champlain, in Northern New York, in the fall of 1776. The
British were about to invade the colonies from Canada by way of that lake. To meet the danger,
the Americans built a small flotilla of gun-boats and gondolas in its upper waters. The British
constructed a flotilla at its foot. The former sailed from Ticonderoga, under the command of
Benedict Arnold, to confront the foe at the foot of the lake. They met not far from Plattsburg,
fought desperately, but not decisively, and during the ensuing dark night Arnold with his vessels
escaped up the lake. The British pursued, and gained a complete victory, but did not begin
the invasion until the next year.

In May, 1777, Captain Conyngham sailed from Dunkirk, France, in the brig Surprise, with one
of Franklin's commissions, and soon returned to port with a British brig and packet as prizes.
The French were embarrassed. They desired to help the Americans, but did not wish to provoke
an open quarrel with the English just then. The English Ambassador at Paris protested, and
Conyngham and his crew were imprisoned. They were soon released, and sailed in the Revenge
for British waters, where they spread havoc among the English shipping. The British were so
scared that they were at their wits' end. Insurance rose to twenty per centum; and so unwilling
were English merchants to risk their goods in British bottoms that at one time forty French
vessels were taking in cargoes in the Thames. The Revenge tried to intercept the British transports
taking hired German troops to America, but failed.

After the treaty of alliance with France was signed, the French openly assisted the Americans,
whose cruisers and privateers became more active than ever. The story of their exploits in
detail forms a most romantic chapter of American history.

In the spring of 1778, John Paul Jones first appeared in European waters. With the Ranger,
of eighteen guns, he went up the western coast of England to Whitehaven; seized the fort, spiked
the cannons, set fire to the shipping, and departed as quickly as he came. Then he attempted
to make his father's old friend, the Scotch Earl of Selkirk, a prisoner, but failed. His men
carried off the family plate, which Jones restored to Lady Selkirk. Sweeping around Ireland,
he made several prizes, and sailed for France. This raid greatly frightened the people of the
English coasts. To their imagination Jones seemed like a revived old Sea King of the North.

Jones was again in British waters in September, 1779. Dr. Franklin and the French King had
jointly fitted out an expedition to cruise in the British Channel and the German Ocean, and
placed Jones in command. His flagship was the Bon Homme Richard. With his little squadron he
went far up the eastern coast of Great Britain; and on a moon-lit evening had a desperate battle
with the Serapis, the larger of two armed vessels just started to convoy the English Baltic
fleet across the German Ocean.

Jones ran the Richard alongside the Serapis, lashed them together; and so, muzzle to muzzle,
they poured destructive broadsides into each other for an hour and a half. Sometimes both vessels
were on fire. When for a minute the Richard ceased firing, the Captain of the Serapis called
out, "Have you struck your colors?" "I have not yet begun to fight," answered Jones. The struggle
was fierce for a few minutes longer, when the colors of the Serapis were hauled down. When
the vessels were separated, the Richard was sinking, and soon went to the bottom of the sea.
Her people took refuge on the Serapis, and she and her consort were taken into the Texel, in
Holland. When, afterward, Jones heard that the King had knighted the commander of the Serapis,
he said, "He deserves it; and if I fall in with him again, I'll make a lord of him."

The fame of this victory soon spread abroad. The Congress gave Jones a gold medal. European
monarchs gave him tokens of high regard. At a grand court banquet the King of France made him
a Knight of the "Military Order of Merit," and decorated him with its jewel. He is known in
history as the "Chevalier John Paul Jones."

Among the younger naval heroes of the war for independence, who afterward became renowned,
was Joshua Barney. At the close of 1780, when he was less than twenty-two years of age, he
was made Captain, put in command of the frigate Alliance, and conveyed to France John Laurens,
a special envoy of the Congress. On his return Barney was attacked by two armed English vessels,
and after a severe engagement captured both of them.

In the spring of 1782, Barney, in command of the Hyder Ali, a Pennsylvania cruiser keeping
the Delaware clear of English marauders, honored the infant American navy by a brilliant exploit.
He was convoying some merchant vessels, and while at anchor near Cape May was attacked by an
English cruiser with two companions. He sent the merchantmen up the river, and by an expert
movement got the Hyder Ali entangled with her antagonist in such a way that her great guns
swept the decks of the foe with a destructive raking fire. In less than half an hour the British
vessel (which proved to be the brig General Monk) surrendered. She was badly bruised, and had
lost fifty men. This was "one of the most brilliant actions that ever occurred under the American
flag," wrote Cooper, fifty years afterward.

The war for independence was now about to close with triumph for the Americans and their cause.
The little Continental Navy had fully justified the faith of the stout-hearted people by its
grand performances. This little David had fought the Goliath of England most valiantly for
seven years, and in the might of right its "pebbles from the brook" had been equal in efficiency
to the huge "spear" of the boastful oppressor. Divine help gave final victory to the patriots.

During the war the Americans had thirty-six public vessels afloat, besides swarms of active
and efficient privateers. They had also built a large 74-gun ship (the America), but before
she was put to sea she was presented to the French government. The veteran Manly, the pioneer
of the naval warfare on the part of the Americans, after a long captivity, cruised in the Hague
among the West India Islands, until the preliminary treaty of peace was signed in the fall
of 1782. He there closed the regular maritime operations which he had opened in 1775. The cruisers
were recalled, the commissions of the privateers were revoked, and of all the vessels of the
remarkable little Continental Navy only the Alliance remained in 1783. Nothing but the recollection
of the services and sufferings of the navy was left behind. The Alliance was reluctantly sold
in 1785 to save the expense of repairs. The exhausted Americans craved the enjoyment of peace,
and felt no need of a navy.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

MR. MARTIN'S EYE.

BY JIMMY BROWN.

I've made up my mind to one thing, and that is, I'll never have anything to do with Mr. Martin
again. He ought to be ashamed of himself, going around and getting boys into scrapes, just
because he's put together so miserably. Sue says she believes it's mucilage, and I think she's
right. If he couldn't afford to get himself made like other people, why don't he stay at home?
His father and mother must have been awfully ashamed of him. Why, he's liable to fall apart
at any time, Mr. Travers says, and some of these days he'll have to be swept up off the floor,
and carried home in three or four baskets.

