Overlines indicating abbreviations | | are shown like this, D[=n]e, meaning a line over the
letter n. | | Archaic spellings and hyphenation inconsistencies have been    | | left as originally
printed.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 182.] SATURDAY, APRIL 23.                                                  406

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Bishop of Oxford
    in 1164--Roman Inscription found at Battle Bridge--
    Blow-shoppes--Bishop Hesketh--Form of Prayer for
    Prisoners                                                      409

  REPLIES:--
    Edmund Spenser, and Spensers, or Spencers, of Hurstwood,
      by J. B. Spencer, &c.                                        410
    Throwing old Shoes for Luck, by John Thrupp                    411
    Orkneys in Pawn                                                412
    Hogarth's Pictures, by E. G. Ballard and W. D. Haggard         412
    Phantom Bells and Lost Churches                                413

  PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES:--Photographic
    Collodion--Filtering Collodion--Photographic Notes
    --Colouring Collodion Pictures--Gutta Percha Baths             414

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Pilgrimages to the Holy
    Land--"A Letter to a Convocation Man"--King
    Robert Bruce's Coffin-plate--Eulenspiegel or Howleglas
    --Sir Edwin Sadleir--Belfry Towers separate from
    the Body of the Church--God's Marks--"The Whippiad"
    --The Axe that beheaded Anne Boleyn, &c.                       415

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                   417
    Notices to Correspondents                                      418
    Advertisements                                                 418

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

POETICAL EPITHETS OF THE NIGHTINGALE.

Having lately been making some research among our British poets, as to the character of the
nightingale's song, I was much struck with the great quantity and diversity of epithets that
I found applied to the bird. The difference of opinion that has existed with regard to the
quality of its song, has of course led the poetical adherents of either side to couple the
nightingale's name with that very great variety of adjectives which I shall presently set down
in a tabular form, with the names of the poetical sponsors attached thereto. And, in making
this the subject of a Note, I am only opening up an old Query; for the character of the nightingale's
song has often been a matter for discussion, not only for poets and scribblers, but even for
great statesmen like Fox, who, amid all the anxieties of a political life, could yet find time
to defend the nightingale from being a "most musical, most melancholy" bird.

The fable of the nightingale's origin would, of course, in classical times, give the character
of melancholy to its song; and it is rather remarkable that Æschylus makes Cassandra speak
of the happy chirp of the nightingale, and the Chorus to remark upon this as a further proof
of her insanity. (Shakspeare makes Edgar say, "The foul fiend haunted poor Tom in the voice
of a nightingale."--King Lear, Act III. Sc. 6.)

Tennyson seems to be almost the only poet who has thoroughly recognised
the great variety of epithets that may be applied to the nightingale's
song, through the very opposite feelings which it {398} seems to
possess the power to awaken. Fierce extremes employ
       Thy spirit in the dusking leaf,
       And in the midmost heart of grief
     Thy passion clasps a secret joy."

With which compare these lines in The Gardener's Daughter:

    "Yet might I tell of meetings, of farewells,--
     Of that which came between, more sweet than each,
     In whispers, like the whispers of the leaves
     That tremble round a nightingale--in sighs
     Which perfect Joy, perplexed for utterance,
     Stole from her sister Sorrow."

But the most singular proof that, I think, I have met with, concerning the diversity of opinion
touching the song of the nightingale, is to be found in the following example. When Shelley
(Prometheus Unbound) is describing the luxurious pleasures of the Grove of Daphne, he mentions
(in some of the finest lines he has ever written) "the voluptuous nightingales, sick with sweet
love," to be among the great attractions of the place: while Dean Milman (Martyrs of Antioch),
in describing the very same "dim, licentious Daphne," is particular in mention that everything
there

                              "Ministers
    Voluptuous to man's transgressions"

(even including the "winds, and flowers, and waters"); everything, in short,

    "Save thou, sweet nightingale!"

The question is indeed a case of "fierce extremes," as we may see by the following table of
epithets, which are taken from the British poets only:

    Amorous. Milton.
    Artless. Drummond of Hawthornden.
    Attick ("Attica aedon"). Gray.
    Beautiful. Mackay.
    Charmer. Michael Drayton, Philip Ayres.
    Charming. Sir Roger L'Estrange.
    Cheerful. Philip Ayres.
    Complaining. Shakspeare.
    Conqueror. Ford
    Dainty. Carshaw, Giles Fletcher.
    Darkling. Milton.
    Dear. Ben Jonson, Drummond of Hawthornden.
    Deep. Mrs. Hemans.
    Delicious. Crashaw, Coleridge.
    Doleful. Shakspeare.
    Dusk. Barry Cornwall.
    Enchanting. Mrs. T. Welsh.
    Enthusiast. Crashaw.
    Evening. Chaucer.
    Ever-varying. Wordsworth.
    Fervent. Mrs. Hemans.
    Fond. Moore.
    Forlorn. Shakspeare, Darwin, Hood.
    Full-hearted. Author of The Naiad (1816).
    Full-throated. Keats.
    Gentle. The Spanish Tragedy, Dunbar (Laureate to James IV.
       Scot.), Mrs Charlotte Smith.
    Good. Chaucer, Ben Jonson.
    Gushing. Campbell.
    Hapless. Milton.
    Happy. Keats, Mackay.
    Harmless. Crashaw, Browne.
    Harmonious. Browne.
    Heavenly.[1] Chaucer, Dryden, Wordsworth.
    Holy. Campbell.
    Hopeful. Crashaw.
    Immortal. Keats.
    Joyful. Moore.
    Joyous. Keble.
    Lamenting. Shakspeare, Michael Drayton, Drummond of Hawthornden.
    Light-foot. Crashaw.
    Light-winged. Keats.
    Liquid. Milton, Bishop Heber, Tennyson.
    Listening. Crashaw, Thomson.
    Little. James I. Scot., Philip Ayres, Crashaw.
    Lone. Beattie, Mrs. Hemans, Miss London, Mrs. Fanny Kemble, Milman.
    Lonely. Countess of Winchilsea (1715), Barry Cornwall.
    Loud. Shelley.
    Loved. Mason.
    Lovely. Bloomfield.
    Love-lorn. Milton, Scott, Collins.
    Lowly. Mrs. Thompson. {399}
    Lusty. Chaucer.
    Melancholy. Milton, Milman.
    Melodious. Chris. Smart, Ld. Lyttelton, Southey.
    Merry. Red Book of Ossory, fourteenth century (quoted in
       "N. & Q.," Vol. ii., No. 54.), Chaucer, Dunbar, Coleridge.
    Minstrel. Mrs. Charlotte Smith.
    Modest. Keble.
    Mournful. Shakspeare, Theo. Lee, Pope, Lord Thurlow, Byron.
    Musical. Milton.
    Music-panting. Shelley.
    New-abashed.[2]Chaucer.
    Night-warbling. Milton, Milman.
    Pale. Author of Raffaelle and Fornarina (1826).
    Panting. Crashaw.
    Passionate. Lady E. S. Wortley.
    Pensive. Mrs. Charlotte Smith.
    Piteous. Ambrose Philips.
    Pity-pleading (used ironically). Coleridge.
    Plaintive. Lord Lyttelton, Thomson, Keats, Hood.
    Pleasant. An old but unknown author, quoted in Todd's
    Illustrations to Gower and Chaucer, p. 291., ed. 1810.
    Poor. Shakspeare, Ford.
    Rapt. Hon. Julian Fane (1852).
    Ravished. Lilly.
    Responsive. Darwin.
    Restless. T. Lovell Beddoes (in The Bride's Tragedy, 1822).
    Richly-toned. Southey.
    Sad. Milton, Giles Fletcher, Drummond of Hawthornden, Graves,
       Darwin, Collins, Beattie, Byron, Mrs. Hemans, Mrs Fanny Kemble,
       Hood, T. L. Beddoes.
    Shrill. Chaucer, Crashaw.
    Silver-sounding. Richard Barnfield.
    Single.[3] Southey.
    Skilled. Ford.
    Sleepless.[4] Atherstone.
    Sober-suited. Thomson.
    Soft. Milton, James I. Scot., Crashaw, Mrs. Charlotte Smith, Byron.
    Solemn. Milton, Otway, Graingle.
    Sole-sitting. Thomson.
    Sorrowing. Shakspeare.
    Soul-entrancing. Bishop Heber.
    Supple. Crashaw.
    Sweet. Chaucer, James I. Scot., Milton, Spenser, Crashaw, Drummond,
       Richard Barnfield, Ambrose Philips, Shelley, Cowper, Thomson,
       Young, Darwin, Lord Lyttelton, Mrs. Charlotte Smith, Moore,
       Coleridge, Wordsworth, L. E. L., Milman, Hood, Tennyson, P. J.
       Bailey, Kenny, Hon. J. Fane.
    Sweetest. Milton, Browne, Thomson, Turnbull, Beattie.
    Sweet-voiced. Wither.
    Syren. Crashaw.
    Tawny. Cary.
    Tender. Crashaw, Turnbull.
    Thrilling. Hon. Mrs. Wrottesley (1847).
    Tuneful. Dyer, Grainger.
    Unseen. Byron.
    Vaunting. Bloomfield.
    Voluptuous. Shelley.
    Wakeful. Milton, Coleridge.
    Wailing. Miss Landon.
    Wandering. Mrs. Charlotte Smith, Hon. Mrs. Wrottesley.
    Wanton. Coleridge.
    Warbling. Milton, Ford, Chris. Smart, Pope, Smollett, Lord
       Lyttelton, Jos. Warton, Gray, Cowper.
    Welcome. Wordsworth.
    Wild. Moore, Tennyson, J. Westwood (1840).
    Wise. Waller.
    Wondrous. Mrs. Fanny Kemble.

In addition to these 109 epithets, others might be added of a fuller character; such as "Queen
of all the quire" (Chaucer), "Night-music's king" (Richard Barnfield, 1549), "Angel of the
spring" (Ben Jonson), "Music's best seed-plot" (Crashaw), "Best poet of the grove" (Thomson),
"Sweet poet of the woods" (Mrs. Charlotte Smith), "Dryad of the trees" (Keats), "Sappho of
the dell" (Hood); but the foregoing list of simple adjectives (which doubtless could be greatly
increased by a more extended poetical reading) sufficiently demonstrates the popularity of
the nightingale as a poetical embellishment, and would, perhaps, tend to prove that a greater
diversity of epithets have been bestowed upon the nightingale than have been given to any other
song-bird.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

[Footnote 1: The epithets "heavenly," "holy," "solemn," &c., represent the nightingale's song,
as spoken of by Keats, as the bird's "plaintive anthem;" by Mackay, as its

    "Hymn of gratitude and love;"

and by Moore also, in his account of the Vale of Cashmere, as

    "The nightingale's hymn from the Isle of Chenars."

In A Proper New Boke of the Armony of Byrdes (quoted by Dibdin, Top. Antiq., iv. 381.), of
unknown date, though probably before 1580, the nightingale is represented as singing its Te Deum:

        "Tibi Cherubin
         Et Seraphin
    Full goodly she dyd chaunt,
         With notes merely
         Incessabile
    Voce Proeclamant."]

[Footnote 2: Chaucer (Troilus and Creseide) imagines the nightingale to "stint" at the beginning
of its song, and to be frightened at the least noise.]

[Footnote 3: This, and the epithets of "sole-sitting" and "unseen," refer to the nightingale's
love of solitary seclusion.]

[Footnote 4:

    "He slep no more than doth the nightingale."

    Chaucer, Cant. Pil.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN OROSIUS.

In King Alfred's version of Orosius, book ii. chap. iv. p. 68., Barrington, we have an account
of an unsuccessful attempt made by one of Cyrus the Great's officers to swim across a river
"mid twam tyncenum," with two tynkens. What was a tyncen? That was the question nearly a hundred
years ago, when Barrington was working out his translation; and the only answer to be found
then was contained in the great dictionary published by Lye and Manning, but is not found now
in Dr. Bosworth's second edition of his Dictionary: "Tynce, a tench."

How the Persian nobleman was to be supported by two little fishes, which were more likely to
land their passenger at the bottom of the river than on the opposite bank, we are left to guess.
But, before we proceed with the experiment, let us see that we have got the fishes. That tench
was in the Gyndis we have no authority for denying; but, if its Anglian or Saxon name was such
as the dictionary exhibits, we have no trace of it {400} in the text of Alfred; for under no
form of declension, acknowledged in grammar, will tynce ever give tyncenum. We have no need,
then, to spend time in calculating the chance of success, when we have not the means of making
the experiment.

As either tync or tynce would give tyncum, not tyncenum, the latter must come out of tyncen
(query, tynkin or tunkin, a little tun, a barrel, or a cask?). Such was the form in which the
question presented itself to my mind, upon my first examination of the passage three or four
years ago, but which was given up without sufficient investigation, owing to an impression
that if such had been the meaning, it was so simple and obvious that nobody could have missed it.

An emergency, which I need not explain here, has within these few days recalled my attention
to the subject; and I have no reason to be ashamed, or to make a secret, of the result.

Tyncen, the diminutive of tunne, is not only a genuine Anglo-Saxon word, but the type of a
class, of whose existence in that language no Saxonist, I may say no Teutonist, not even the
perspicacious and indefatigable Jacob Grimm himself, seems to be aware. The word is exactly
analogous to Ger. tönnchen, from tonne, and proves three things:--1. That our ancestors formed
diminutives in cen, as well as their neighbours in ken, kin, chen; 2. That the radical vowel
was modified: for y is the umlaut of u; 3. That these properties of the dialect were known
to Alfred the Great when he added this curious statement to the narrative of Orosius.

E. THOMSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS.

(Continued from p. 376.)

Imperseverant, undiscerning. This word I have never met with but twice,--in Shakspeare's Cymbeline,
with the sense above given; and in Bishop Andrewes' Sermon preached before Queen Elizabeth
at Hampton Court, A.D. 1594, in the sense of unenduring:

     "For the Sodomites are an example of impenitent wilful sinners; and
     Lot's wife of imperseverant and relapsing righteous
     persons."--Library of Ang.-Cath. Theology, vol. ii. p. 62.

Perseverant, discerning, and persevers, discerns, occur respectively at pp. 43. and 92. of
Hawes's Pastime of Pleasure (Percy Society's edition). The noun substantive perseverance=discernment
is as common a word as any of the like length in the English language. To omit the examples
that might be cited out of Hawes's Pastime of Pleasure, I will adduce a dozen other instances;
and if those should not be enough to justify my assertion, I will undertake to heap together
two dozen more. Mr. Dyce, in his Critique of Knight and Collier's Shakspeare, rightly explains
the meaning of the word in Cymbeline; and quotes an example of perseverance from The Widow,
to which the reader is referred. Mr. Dyce had, however, previously corrupted a passage in his
edition of Rob. Greene's Dramatic Works, by substituting, "perceivance" for perseverance, the
word in the original quarto of the Pinner of Wakefield, vol. ii. p. 184.:

    "Why this is wondrous being blind of sight,
     His deep perseuerance should be such to know us."

I subjoin the promised dozen:

     "For his dyet he was verie temperate, and a great enemie of excesse
     and surfetting; and so carelesse of delicates, as though he had had
     no perseuerance in the tast of meates," &c.--"The Life of
     Ariosto," Sir John Harington's Translation of Orlando Furioso, p.
     418.

     "In regarde whereof they are tyed vnto these duties: First by a
     prudent, diligent, and faithfull care to obserue by what things the
     state may be most benefited; and to haue perseuerance where such
     marchandize that the state most vseth and desireth may be had with
     greatest ease," &c.--The Trauailer, by Thomas Palmer: London,
     1606.

     "There are certain kinds of frogs in Egypt, about the floud of
     Nilus, that have this percewerance, that when by chance they
     happen to come where a fish called Varus is, which is great a
     murtherer and spoiler of frogs, they use to bear in their mouths
     overthwart a long reed, which groweth about the banks of Nile; and
     as this fish doth gape, thinking to feed upon the frog, the reed is
     so long that by no means he can swallow the frog; and so they save
     their lives."--"The Pilgrimage of Kings and Princes," chap. xliii.
     p. 294. of Lloyd's Marrow of History, corrected and revised by R.
     C., Master of Arts: London, 1653.

     "This fashion of countinge the monthe endured to the ccccl yere of
     the citie, and was kepte secrete among the byshops of theyr
     religion tyl the time that C. Flauius, P. Sulpitius Auarrio, and P.
     Sempronius Sophuilongus, then beinge Consuls, against the mynde of
     the Senatours disclosed all their solemne feates, published th[=e]
     in a table that euery man might haue perseuera[=u]ce of them."--An
     Abridgemente of the Notable Worke of Polidore Vergile, &c., by
     Thomas Langley, fol. xlii.

     "And some there be that thinke men toke occasion of God to make
     ymages, whiche wylling to shewe to the grosse wyttes of men some
     perceiueraunce of hymselfe, toke on him the shape of man, as
     Abraham sawe him and Jacob also."--Id., fol. lxi.

In this passage, as in others presently to be alleged, "notification" seems to be the drift
of the word.

     "Of this vnreuerent religi[=o], Mahomete, a noble ma[=n]e, borne in
     Arabie, or, as some report, in Persie, was authour: and his father
     was an heathen idolater, and his mother an Ismaelite; wherfore she
     had more perceuerance of the Hebrues law."--Id., fol. cxlii.

     "Where all feelyng and perseuer[=a]ce of euill is awaie, nothyng
     there is euill or found a misse. As if a manne {401} be fallen into
     a sound slepe, he feleth not the hardenesse or other incommoditie of
     his cabon or couche."--"The Saiynges of Publius, No. 58.," The
     Precepts of Cato, &c., with Erasmus Annotations: London, 1550.

     "Wherfore both Philip and Alexander (if ye dead haue anie
     perceuerance) woulde not that the rootes (rooters) out of them
     and theyre issue, but rather that the punnishers of those traitors,
     should enioye the kingdom of Macedone."--"The XVI Booke of
     Justine," fol. 86., Golding's Translation of the Abridgement of
     the Historyes of Trojus Pompeius: London, 1578.

     "And morouer bycause his setting of vs here in this world is to
     aduaunce vs aloft, that is, to witte to the heauenly life, whereof
     he giueth vs some perceyuerance and feeling afore hande."--Io.
     Calvin. "Sermon XLI., on the Tenth Chap. of Job," p. 209.,
     Golding's Translation: London, 1574.

     "And so farre are wee off from being able to atteine to such
     knowledge through our owne power, that we flee it as much as is
     possible, and blindfold our own eyes, to the intent we might put
     away all perceyuerance and feeling of God's judgement from
     vs."--Id., "Sermon XLII.," p. 218.

     "For (as I haue touched already) God of his goodnesse doth not
     vtterly barre vs from hauing any perceyuerance at all of his
     wisdome: but it behoueth vs to keepe measure."--Id., "Sermon
     XLIII.," p. 219.

I shall not cite any more from Golding, but simply observe that the word occurs again and again
in his translations. The remaining three examples exhibit the noun in a somewhat different
sense, viz. "notification," or "means of discerning:"

     "The time most apt in all the yeare, and affoording greatest
     perseuerance for the finding out of the heads of wells and
     fountaines, are the moneths of August or September."--The First
     Booke of the Countrie Farme, p. 8., by Stevens and Liebault,
     translated by Svrflet, and edited by G. Markham: London, 1616.

     "He may also gather some perceiuerance by the other markes before
     specified; that is to say, by the prints of his foote vpon the
     grasse, by the carriages of his head, his dung, gate," &c.--Id.,
     booke vii. p. 685.

    "And this lyfe to men is an high perseveraunce,
     Or a lyght of faythe wherby they shall be saved."

     "God's Promises," by John Bale; Dodsley's Old Plays (Collier's
     edition), vol. i. Part II. Act I.

By-the-bye, as a specimen of the value of this edition, take the following passage of this
very play:

     "O perfyght keye of David, and hygh scepture of the kyndred of
     Jacob; whych openest and no man speareth, that speakest and no
     man openeth."--Act VII. p. 40.

On the word speareth the commentator treats his reader to a note; in which he informs him that
speareth means "asketh," and in proof of this cites one passage from Chaucer, and two from
Douglas's Virgil. It might almost appear to be upbraiding the reader with stupidity to mention
that speareth signifieth "bolteth, shutteth;" and that "speaketh" is a misprint for speareth.
This verb was a favourite with Bale. One word more closes my budget for the present.

More, a root. Still in use in Gloucestershire, once of frequent occurrence. To the examples
alleged by Richardson, in his Dictionary, add the following:

    "I se it by ensaunple
     In somer tyme on trowes;
     Ther some bowes ben leved,
     And some bereth none,
     There is a meschief in the more
     Of swiche manere bowes."
         The Vision of Piers Ploughman, edited by Thomas
            Wright, vol. ii. p. 300.

At p. 302. you find the sentiment in Latin:

     "Sicut cum videris arborem pallidam et marcidam, intelligis
     quod vitium habet in radice"--"a meschief in the more."

The Glossary of the editor is silent.

    "It is a ful trie tree, quod he,
     Trewely to telle;
     Mercy is the more therof,
     The myddul stok is ruthe;
     The leves ben lele wordes,
     The lawe of holy chirche;
     The blosmes beth buxom speche,
     And benigne lokynge;
     Pacience hatte the pure tree," &c.
                         Id., vol. ii. p. 330.

    "It groweth in a gardyn, quod he,
     That God made hymselve,
     Amyddes mannes body,
     The more is of that stokke,
     Herte highte the herber,
     That it inne groweth."
                   Id., vol. ii. p. 331.

There should not be any comma, or other stop, at body, because the sense is--"The root of that
stock is amid man's body."

Mr. Wright's Glossary refers to these last two instances as follows:

     "More (A.-S.) 330, 331., the main or larger part, body (?)"

At p. 334. we meet with the word again:

     "On o more thei growed."

And again, at p. 416.:

     "And bite a-two the mores."

May I, in passing, venture to inquire of the editor on what authority he explains waselede
(p. 476.) to be "the pret. of waselen (A.-S.) to become dirty, dirty oneself?"

    "This Troilus withouten rede or lore,
     As man that hath his joies eke forlore,
     Was waiting on his lady evermore,
     As she that was sothfast croppe and more,
     Of all his lust or joyes here tofore."
              Chaucer's Troilus and Creseide, b.v.

{402} Afterwards, in the same book, a few stanzas further on, he joins "crop" and "root" together.

     "Last of all, if these thinges auayle not the cure, I do commend
     and allow above all the rest, that you take the iuyce of Celendine
     rootes, making them cleane from the earth that doth vse to hang to
     the moores."--The Booke of Falconrie, by George Turbervile,
     1611, p. 236.

     "Chiefely, if the moare of vertue be not cropped, but dayly
     rooted deepelyer."--The Fyrste Booke of the Nobles or of
     Nobilitye, translated from Laurence Humfrey.

The next and last example from the "Second Booke" of this interesting little volume I will
quote more at large:

     "Aristotle mencioneth in his Politikes an horrible othe vsed in
     certaine states, consistinge of the regimente of fewe nobles, in
     maner thus: I will hate the people, and to my power persecute them.
     Which is the croppe and more of al sedition. Yet too much
     practised in oure liues. But what cause is there why a noble man
     should eyther despise the people? or hate them? or wrong them?
     What? know they not, no tiranny maye bee trusty? Nor how yll
     gard[=e] of c[=o]tinuance, feare is? Further, no more may nobilitie
     misse the people, then in man's body, the heade, the hande. For of
     trueth, the common people are the handes of the nobles, sith them
     selues bee handlesse. They labour and sweate for them, with
     tillinge, saylinge, running, toylinge: by sea, by l[=a]d, with
     h[=a]ds, w't feete, serue them. So as w'oute theyr seruice, they
     nor eate, nor drink, nor are clothed, no nor liue. We reade in ye
     taleteller Esope, a doue was saued by the helpe of an ant. A lyon
     escaped by the benefit of a mowse. We rede agayne, that euen ants
     haue theyr choler. And not altogether quite, the egle angered the
     bytle bee."

The reader will notice in this citation another instance of the verb miss, to dispense with.
I have now done for the present; but should the collation of sundry passages, to illustrate
the meaning of a word, appear as agreeable to the laws of a sound philology, as conducive to
the integrity of our ancient writers, and as instructive to the public as brainspun emendations,
whether of a remote or modern date, which now-a-days are pouring in like a flood--to corrupt
long recognised readings in our idolised poet Shakspeare, in order to make his phraseology
square with the language of the times and his readers' capacities--I will not decline to continue
endeavours such as the present essay exhibits with a view to stem and roll back the tide.

W. R. ARROWSMITH.

Broad Heath, Presteign, Herefordshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WORK ON THE MACROCOSM.

I intended to have contributed a series of papers to "N. & Q." on the brute creation, on plants
and flowers, &c.; and in a Note on the latter subject I promised to follow it up. However,
as circumstances have changed my intentions, I think it may be well to mention that I have
in hand a work on Macrocosm, or World of Nature around us, which shall be published in three
separate parts or volumes. The first shall be devoted to the Brute Creation; the second shall
be an Herbal, with a Calendar of dedicated Flowers prefixed; the third shall contain Chapters
on the Mineral Kingdom: in the last I shall treat of the symbolism of stones, and the superstitions
respecting them. I purpose in each case, as far as possible, to go to the fountain-head, and
shall give copious extracts from such writers as St. Ildefonso of Toledo, St. Isidore of Seville,
Vincent of Beauvais, St. Basil, Origen, Epiphanius, and the Christian Fathers.

As the work I have sketched out for myself will require time to mature, I shall publish very
shortly a small volume, containing a breviary of the former, which will give some idea of the
manner in which I shall treat the proposed subject.

Many correspondents of "N. & Q." have evinced great interest in the line I intend to enter
upon. (See Vol. i., pp. 173. 457.; Vol. iv., p. 175.; Vol. vi., pp. 101. 272. 462. 518.) Their
Queries have produced no satisfactory result. I myself made a Query in my "Chapter on Flowers,"
some months ago, respecting Catholic floral directories, and two works in particular, about
which I was most anxious, and which were quoted in The Catholic Florist, London, 1851, and
I have received no answer. Mr. Oakley, indeed, wrote to me to say that he "only edited it,
and wrote a preface," and that he forwarded my Query "to the compiler:" the latter personage,
however, has not favoured me with a reply.

In spite of all these discouragements, I have taken the step of bringing my contemplated work
before the readers of "N. & Q.," and I shall gratefully acknowledge any communications relative
to legends, folk-lore, superstitions, symbolism, &c. bearing on the subjects proposed. As I
intend inserting a bibliographical list of the chief works which come under the scope of each
volume, I might receive much valuable assistance on this point, especially as regards Oriental
and other foreign books, which might escape my researches. As regards the brute creation, I
have gotten, with the kind assistance of the editor of "N. & Q.," Hildrop's famous reply to
Father Bougeant; and I have sent to Germany for Dr. Kraus's recent work on the subject.

EIRIONNACH.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. SOUTH'S LATIN TRACT AGAINST SHERLOCK.

None of South's compositions are more striking or characteristic than his two English tracts
against Sherlock, his Animadversions on Sherlock's Vindication of the Trinity, 1693-94, 4to.,
{403} and his Tritheism charged on Sherlock's new Notion of the Trinity, 1694, 4to. For caustic
wit and tremendous power of vituperation, I scarcely know any controversial works which surpass,
or even equal them. South looked upon Sherlock with profound scorn as a Sciolist, and hated
him most cordially as a heretic and a political renegade. He accordingly gives him no quarter,
and seems determined to draw blood at every stroke. Mrs. Sherlock is of course not forgotten,
and one of the happiest passages in the Tritheism charged is the well-known humorous illustration
of Socrates and Xantippe, p. 129. It is somewhat curious that, notwithstanding these two works
of South have attracted so much notice, it seems to be quite unknown that he also published
a Latin tract against Sherlock, in further continuation of the controversy, in which the attack
is carried on with equal severity. The title of the tract in question is, Decreti Oxoniensis
Vindicatio in Tribus ad Modestum ejusdem examinatorem modestioribus Epistolis a Theologo Transmarino.
Excusa Anno Domini 1696, 4to., pp. 92. The tract, of which I have a copy, is anonymous, but
it is ascribed to South in the following passages in The Agreement of the Unitarians with the
Catholic Church, part i. 1697, 4to., which is included in vol. v. of the 4to. Unitarian Tracts,
and evidently written by one who had full information on the subject. His expressions (p. 62.)
are--"Dr. South, in his Latin Letters, under the name of a Transmarine Divine;" and a little
further on, "Dr. South, in two (English) books by him written, and in three Latin letters,
excepts against this (Sherlock's) explication of the Trinity." In confirmation of this ascription,
I may observe that the Latin tract is contained in an extensive collection of the tracts in
the Trinitarian Controversy formed by Dr. John Wallis, which I possess, and in which he has
written the names of the authors of the various anonymous pieces. He took, as is well known,
a leading part in the controversy, and published himself an anonymous pamphlet (not noticed
by his biographers), also in defence of Oxford decrees. On the title-page of the Latin tract
he has written "By Dr. South." I have likewise another copy in a volume which belonged to Stephen
Nye, one of the ablest writers in the controversy, and who ascribes it in the list of contents
in the fly-leaf, in his handwriting, to Dr. South. These grounds would appear to be sufficient
to authorise our including this tract in the list of South's works, though, from the internal
evidence of the tract itself alone, I should scarcely have felt justified in ascribing it to him.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

Parallel Passages.--

                        "You leaden messengers,
    That ride upon the violent wings of fire,
    Fly with false aim; move the still-piecing air,
    That sings with piercing,--do not touch my lord!"
            All's Well that Ends Well, Act III. Sc. 2.

                           "the elements,
    Of whom your swords are tempered, may as well
    Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd at stabs
    Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
    One dowle that's in my plume."
                       The Tempest, Act III. Sc. 3.

There can be little doubt that the clever corrector of  MR. COLLIER'S folio had the last of
these passages in view when he altered the word move of the first, into wound of the second:
but in this instance he overshot the mark, in not perceiving the nice and subtle distinction
which exists between them. The first implies possibility: the second impossibility.

In the second, the mention of, to "wound the loud wind, or kill the still-closing water," is
to set forth the absurdness of the attempt; but in the first passage there is a direct injunction
to a possible act: "Fly with false aim, move the still-piecing air." To say "wound the still-piecing
air" would be to direct to be done, in one passage, that which the other passage declares to
be absurd to expect!

If it were necessary to disturb move at all, the word cleave would be, all to nothing, a better
substitution than wound.

Whether the annotating of MR. COLLIER'S folio be a real or a pseudo-antique, it is impossible
to deny that its executor must have been a clever, as he was certainly a slashing hitter. It
cannot, therefore, be wondered that he should sometimes reach the mark: but that these corrections
should be received with that blind and superstitious faith, so strangely exacted for them,
can scarcely be expected. Indeed, it is to be regretted that they have been introduced to the
public with such an uncompromising claim to authority; as the natural repugnance against enforced
opinion may endanger the success of the few suggestive emendations, to be found amongst them,
which are really new and valuable.

A. E. B.

Leeds.

P.S.--With reference to the above Note, which, although not before printed, has been for some
time in the Editor's hands, I have observed in a Dublin paper of Saturday, April 9th, a very
singular coincidence; viz. the recurrence of the self-same misprint corrected by Malone, but
retained by Messrs. Collier and Knight in their respective editions of Shakspeare. Had the
parallel expressions still-closing, still-piecing, which I have compared in the above paper,
been noticed by these {404} editors, they would no more have hesitated in accepting Malone's
correction than they would object to the same correction in the misprint I am about to point
out; viz. (Vol. vii., pp. 5. 111. 183.).--Is an old Shakspearian to talk rashly in "N. & Q."
without being called to account? "If 'we can,'" says MR. SINGER, "'by no means part with have,'
we must interpolate been after it, to make it any way intelligible, to the marring of the verse."
Now, besides the passage in the same scene--

                        ----"my loyalty,
    Which ever has, and ever shall be growing,"

pointed out by your Leeds correspondent, there is another equally in point in All's Well that
Ends Well, Act II. Sc. 5., which, being in prose, settles the question as to whether the omission
of the past participle after the auxiliary was customary in Shakspeare's time. It is Lafeu's
farewell to Parolles:

     "Farewell, Monsieur: I have spoken better of you, than you have or
     will deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil."

Either this is "unintelligible," and "we must interpolate" deserved, or (the only possible
alternative) all three passages are free from MR. SINGER'S objection.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Should not the third line be--

    "Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps its sell!"

Sell is saddle (Latin, sella; French, selle), and is used by Spenser in this sense.

"O'erleaping itself" is manifest nonsense; whereas the whole passage has evident reference
to horsemanship; and to "vault" is "to carry one's body cleverly over anything of a considerable
height, resting one hand upon the thing itself,"--exactly the manner in which some persons
mount a horse, resting one hand on the pommel of the saddle.

It would then be perfectly intelligible, thus--

    "Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps its saddle (sell),
    And falls on the other (side of the horse)."

Does MR. COLLIER'S "New Text," or any other old copy, prove this?

S. SINGLETON.

Greenwich.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Robert Weston.--I copy the following from a letter of R. L. Kingston to Dr. Ducarel in Nichols's
Literary History, vol. iii. p. 629.:

     "Robert Weston was Lord of Manor of Kilmington in Devon, and
     divided his estate among four daughters, reserving to the eldest
     son the royalties of his courts. In his will or deed of settlement
     is this clause:--'That the Abbot of Newnhams, near Axminster, had
     nothing to do in the highway any further than to his land of
     Studhays, and that he should stand without the court gate of his
     land of Studhays, and take his right ear in his left hand, and put
     his right arm next to his body under his left across, and so cast
     his reap-hook from him; and so far he shall come.'"

BALLIOLENSIS.

Sonnet on the Rev. Joseph Blanco White.--Some years ago, I copied the following sonnet from
a newspaper. Can you say where it first made its appearance? After the annexed testimony of
Coleridge, it is needless to say anything in its praise.

      "SONNET ON THE REV. JOSEPH BLANCO WHITE.

Coleridge is said to have pronounced this "The finest and most grandly conceived in our language;
at least, it is only in Milton's and in Wordsworth's sonnets that I recollect any rival."

BALLIOLENSIS.

English and American Booksellers.--It is rather curious to note, that whilst English booksellers
are emulously vying with one another to publish editions of Uncle Toms, Queechys, Wide Wide
Worlds, &c., they neglect to issue English works which the superior shrewdness of {405} Uncle
Sam deems worthy of reprinting. Southey's Chronicle of the Cid, which was published by Longman
in 1808, and not since printed in England, was brought out in a very handsome octavo form at
Lowell, U. S., in 1846. And this, the "first American edition," as it is called on the title-page,
can be readily procured from the booksellers in London; whereas the English original is not
to be met with. In like manner, Macaulay's Essays were collected and published first in America;
and so with Praed's Poems, and many others. Uncle Sam has lately announced collections of Dr.
Maginn's and De Quincey's scattered Essays, for which we owe him our most grateful acknowledgments.

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

Odd Mistake.--

     "One of the houses on Mount Ephraim formerly belonged to Judge
     Jeffries, a man who has rendered his name infamous in the annals
     of history by the cruelty and injustice he manifested in presiding
     at the trial of King Charles I."--Descriptive Sketches of
     Tunbridge Wells, by John Britton, F.S.A., p. 59.

Voilà comment on fait l'histoire!

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

Thomas Shakspeare.--In the year 1597 there resided in Lutterworth in Leicestershire, only distant
from Stratford-upon-Avon, the birth-town of Shakspeare, a very few miles, one Thomas Shakspeare,
who appears to have been employed by William Glover, of Hillendon in Northamptonshire, gentleman,
as his agent to receive for him and give an acquittance for a considerable sum of money.

Having regard to the age in which this Thomas Shakspeare lived, coupled with his place of residence,
is it not probable he was a relative of the great Bard?

CHARLECOTE.

Early Winters.--I heard it mentioned, when in St. Petersburg very lately, that they have never
had so early a commencement of winter as this last year since the French were at Moscow.

I find in accounts of the war, that the winter commenced then (1812) on November 7, N. S.,
with deep snow. Last year (1852) it commenced at St. Petersburg on October 16, N. S., as noted
in my diary, with snow, which has remained on the ground ever since, accompanied at times with
very severe frost.

Query: Can November 7, N. S., be the correct date? If it is, this last winter's commencement
must be unprecedented; as I have always heard it remarked, that the winter began unusually
early the year the French were at Moscow.

I may mention as a note, that by the last accounts from Russia, they say the ice in the Gulf
of Finland was four and a half feet thick.

J. S. A.

Old Broad Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

SATIRICAL PLAYING CARDS.

I have lately been much interested in a pack of cards, complete (fifty-two) in their number
and suits, engraved in the time of the Commonwealth at the Hague, and representing the chief
personages and the principal events of that period. I have been able, by reference to historical
authorities, and, in particular, to the Ballads and Broadsides in the British Museum, forming
the collection presented to the nation by George III., to explain the whole pack, with the
exception of two. These are "Parry, Father and Sonne," and "Simonias slandering the High Priest,
to get his Place." The former simply represents two figures, without any thing to offer a clue
to any event; the latter gives the representation of six Puritans, forming an assembly, who
are being addressed by one of the body. I cannot find any notice of Simonias, or to whom such
a name has been applied, in any of the Commonwealth tracts with which I am acquainted. Probably
some of your readers can help me in this matter. Of these cards I can find no notice: they
are not mentioned by Singer, and appear to have escaped the indefatigable research of Mr. Chatto.
They were purchased at the Hague, more than thirty years since, for thirty-three guineas, and
are exceedingly curious: indeed they form a bundle of Commonwealth tracts. All the principal
persons of the time figure in some characteristic representation, and the private scandal is
also recognised in them. Thus, Oliver is to be found under a strong conflict with Lady Lambert;
Sir Harry Mildmay solicits a citizen's wife, for which his own corrects him; and he is also
being beaten by a footboy,--which event is alluded to in Butler's Posthumous Works. General
Lambert, of whom your pages have given some interesting information, is represented as "The
Knight of the Golden Tulip," evidently in reference to his withdrawal with a pension to Holland,
where he is known to have ardently cultivated flowers, and to have drawn them in a very superior
manner. I hope this communication may enable me to complete my account of these cards, the
explanation of which may probably throw light upon some of the stirring events of that extraordinary
period of our history.

T. J. PETTIGREW.

Saville Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOVABLE METAL TYPES ANNO 1435.

A vellum MS. has lately come into my possession, containing the Service for the Dead, Prayers,
&c., with the tones for chanting, &c., in Latin, written for a German Order, apparently about
the year 1430.

This tome, which is in small 4to., is very remarkable and valuable on account of the binding.
This is red leather, stamped with double lines forming lozenges, and powdered with additional
stamps, Or, a lion, a fleur-de-lys, an eagle, and a star. The whole is on the plain leather,
without any gilding.

But in addition hereto, a full inscription runs along each back, at top and bottom and each
side, stamped with movable metal types applied by hand, {406} without gold, as is done by the
bookbinder to this day in blind stamping.

The legend on the first back is as follows:

     At top.--"DIEZ . PUCHLE[=I]
     Continued to the right.--IST . S. . MARGRETEN .
     At the bottom.--SCHUEST . AB[=T] . ZU .
     Continued to the left.--S. . KATHERE[=I] . ZU . MUR."

That is,--

     "Diez puchlein ist schwester Margreten, sehuest abtisse zu
     Sankt Katherein zu Mur."

The legend on the last back is,--

    At top.--"NACH . CRIST .
    Continued to the right.--GEPURT . MCCCCXXXV .
    At bottom.--UVART . GEPUN
    Continued to the left.--D[=E] . DIEZ . PUCH ... K."

That is,--

    "Nach Crist gepurt MCCCCXXXV uvart gepunden diez puch ... k."

The whole inscription will therefore be, in English,--

    THIS BOOKLET
    IS SISTER MARGARET'S,
    SISTER-ABBESS AT
    SAINT CATHERINE'S AT MUR.

    AFTER CHRIST'S
    BIRTH, 1435,
    WAS BOUN-
    DEN THIS BOOK ... K.

A letter or two is illegible, from the injury made by the clasp, before the last K. Both the
clasps are torn away, perhaps from their having been of some precious metal. Has this K anything
to do with Köster?

Can any particulars be given of the abbess, monastery, and town mentioned?

Is any other specimen of movable metal types known of so early a date?

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Copenhagen.

       *       *       *       *       *

PORTRAITS AT BRICKWALL HOUSE.

Among the pictures at Brickwall House, Northiam, Sussex, are the following portraits by artists
whose names are not mentioned either in Bryan, or Pilkington, or Horace Walpole's notices of
painters. I shall be thankful for any information respecting them.

    1. A full-length portrait in oils (small size) on canvas (29 inches
    by 24) of a gentleman seated, dressed in a handsome loose gown, red
    slippers, and on his head a handsome, but very peculiar velvet cap;
    on the ground, near him, a squirrel; and on a table by his side, a
    ground plan of some fortification. "John Sommer pinxit, 1700."

N. B.--The late Capt. Marryatt, and subsequently another gentleman, guessed it to be a portrait
of Wortley Montague from the peculiar dress; but the fortification would seem to indicate a
military personage. The picture is well painted.

    2. A half-length portrait in oils (small size) on canvas (20-1/2
    inches by 17), of an old lady seated; a landscape in the background.
    A highly finished and excellent picture; the lace in her cap is most
    elaborate. "T. Vander Wilt, 1701."

N. B.--I conclude this is the artist's name, though possibly it may be the subject's.

    3. A pair of portraits (Kit Kat size), of John Knight of Slapton,
    Northamptonshire, aged seventy-two; and Catherine his wife, aged
    thirty-seven. "Lucas Whittonus pinxit, 1736."

N. B.--Inferior portraits by some provincial artist. I conclude Lucas is the surname, and Whittonus
indicates his locality; if so, what place?

Whilst on this subject, I would add another Query respecting a picture in this house: a very
highly finished portrait (small size) by Terburgh, of a gentleman standing, in black gown,
long brown wig, and a book on a table by him. "Andries de Græff. Obiit lxxiii., MDCLXXIIII."

Can you tell me anything about this old gentleman?

T. F.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Christian Names.--Can any of your correspondents inform me when it became a common practice
to have more than one Christian name? Lord Coke says (Co. Litt. 3 a):

     "And regularly it is requisite that the purchaser be named by the
     name of baptism and his surname, and that special heed be taken to
     the name of baptism; for that a man cannot have two names of
     baptism as he may have divers surnames."

It appears, then, that during the first half of the seventeenth century a man could not have
two Christian names.

Also, at what period did the custom arise of using as Christian names words which are properly
surnames?

ERICAS.

Lake of Geneva.--The chronicler Marius (in the second volume of Dom Bouquet) mentions that,
in the reign of the sons of Clotaire, an earthquake or landslip, in the valley of the Upper
Rhone, enlarged the Lemannus, or Genevese Lake, by thirty miles of length and twenty of breadth,
destroying towns and villages. Montfaucon, in his Monumens de la Monarchie, i. p. 63., {407}
states that the Lake of Geneva was formed on this occasion: absurdly, unless he means that
upon this occasion its limits were extended to Geneva, having previously terminated further
east. What vestiges of this catastrophe are now perceptible?

A. N.

Clerical Portrait.--May I request the assistance of "N. & Q." in discovering the name of a
reverend person whose portrait I have recently met with in my parish? The individual from whom
I procured it could give me no other history of it, but that he had bought it at the sale of
the effects of a respectable pawnbroker in the village many years ago.

Afterwards I learned from another resident in the parish that he well remembered visiting the
shop of the same broker, in company with another gentleman still living, when this identical
portrait was the subject of conversation, and the broker went into his private room and brought
out a book, conceived to be a magazine, from which he read a description of the person of whom
this was the portrait, to the following effect, viz., "That he was born of obscure parentage
in the parish of Glemham, Suffolk; that he was sent to school, and afterwards became a great
man and a dignitary of the church, if not a bishop; and became so wealthy that he gave a large
sum for the repairs of Norwich Cathedral."

These are the only particulars which I have yet ascertained as to the portrait, for neither
of the gentlemen who were present at this transaction with the broker, though they agree in
the circumstances which I have above narrated, can remember the name of my great unknown.

I look, however, with confidence to the wide range of your correspondents, and hope to receive
some clue which may guide me to the wished-for discovery.

The portrait is an oil painting, a fine full florid face, with a long wig of black curly hair
resting on the shoulders, gown and band, date probably from Queen Anne to George II.

J. T. A.

Arms: Battle-axe.--With some quarterings of Welsh arms in Bisham (Marlow) of Hobey, is one
of three battle-axes. The same appear near Denbigh, supposed taken in with a L. R. from Vaughan.
Query, What family or families bore three battle-axes?

A. C.

Bullinger's Sermons.--Will some of your correspondents kindly give me some information regarding
a volume of sermons by Henry Bullinger, which I have reason to believe is of rather rare occurrence?
It is Festorum dierum Domini et Servatoris nostri Jesu Christi Sermones Ecclesiastici: Heinrycho
Bullingero, Authore. There is a vignette, short preface (on title-page), with a Scripture motto,
Matt. xvii. Date is, "Tiguri apud Christoph. Froschoverum a. MDLVIII." I believe there is a
copy in the University Library, Cambridge.

ENIVRI.

Monkstown, Dublin.

Gibbon's Library.--Matthews, in his Diary of an Invalid, says, when visiting Gibbon's house
at Lausanne, "His library still remains; but it is buried and lost to the world. It is the
property of Mr. Beckford, and lies locked up in an uninhabited house at Lausanne" (1st edit.
1820, p. 319.). This was written about 1817. Was the library ever transferred to Fonthill or
to Bath, or does it still remain at Lausanne?

J. H. M.

Dr. Timothy Bright.--Can any of your correspondents inform me whether this gentleman, author
of a Treatise on Melancholy, an edition of Fox's Martyrs, &c., was an ancestor of the Rev.
Henry Bright, prebend of Worcester Cathedral, and instructor of Samuel Butler, author of Hudibras?

H. A. B.

Townley MSS.--I request to know, where are the Townley MSS.?* They are quoted by Nicolas in
the Scope and Grosvenor Rolls? Also, where are the MSS. often referred to in the History of
the House of Yvery as then penes the Earl of Egmont; and also a folio of Pedigrees by Camden
Russet?

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

    [* For a notice of the Townley MSS., see "N. & Q.," Vol. iv., p.
    103.]

Order of St. John of Jerusalem.--1. Who were the members of the British Language of St. John
of Jerusalem, when Elizabeth took away their property?

2. What members of the British Language were present when, in 1546, the English commander Upton
attacked and defeated the famous Corsair Dragut at Tarschien in Malta? Also, what members of
it were present when the Chevalier Repton, Grand Prior of England in 1551, was killed, after
signally defeating the Turks in another attack which they made on the island?

3. What became of the records of the Language?

N.B.--Some of them, belonging to the Irish branch of it, were lately bought of a Jew by a private
gentleman in the Grand Duchy of Baden. They are supposed to have been deposited for security
at Heidersheim near Fribourg, which was the chief seat of the German Language of the Order.

R. L. P.

Wartensee, Lake of Constance.

Consecrated Roses, Swords, &c.--Where will any account be found of the origin of the custom,
which has long prevailed at Rome, of the Pope's blessing, on the eve at certain festivals,
roses and {408} other articles, and which were afterwards frequently presented to sovereigns
and potentates as tokens of friendship and amity?

G.

West, Kipling, and Millbourne.--In 1752 there was a firm of West and Kipling in Holborn: the
Christian name of West was Thomas; and there is reason to believe that he had two sons, Francis
and Thomas. A George Millbourne, Esq., of Spring Gardens, married a cousin of Thomas West,
the partner of Kipling: these facts are referred to in the will of a lady proved A.D. 1764.
Can any reader of "N. & Q." furnish me with materials or references from which I may gather
information of these families of West and Millbourne? The smallest contribution will be thankfully
received by

F. S.

Font Inscriptions.--I would request the favour of any such of ancient date. A collection of
them would be interesting. I can give three.

At Lullington, Somerset, on a Norman font, in characters of that date:

     "In hoc Fontu sacro pereunt delicta lavacro."

At Bourn, Lincoln:

     "Su[=p] o[=m]e no[=m] I H C est no[=m] q[=d]e."

At Melton Mowbray:

     "Sancta Trinitas misere nobis."

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Welsh Genealogical Queries.--Can JOHN AP WILLIAM AP JOHN (Vol. vii., p. 292.), or some other
reader, enlighten me as to who the following personages were, or where a pedigree of them is
to be found:

    1. Gwladys, da. of Ithel ap Rhys ap Morgan, of Ewias ap Morgan Hîr
    ap Testyn ap Gwrgant, of 4th royal tribe, who ma. Madog ap
    Griffith.--Burke's Landed Gentry, "Hughes of Gwerclas."

    2. Beatrix, da. of Eignion ap David ap Myles ap Griffith ap Owen,
    lord of Bromfield; and Honet ap Jago ap Ydwall, prince of Wales, who
    ma. William Belward, baron of Malpas.

    3. Gwernwy, cousin of Bleddyn ap Cynfyn, called prince of the 14th
    royal tribe, whose grand-da. Hunydd ma. Meredith ap Bleddyn.--V.
    Burke, as above.

    4. Gwentlian, wife of the above Gwernwy, da. of Rhys ap Morgan.

    5. Griffin, son of Wenovewyn, whose da. ma. Fulke Fitzwarine, a
    baron, 1295--1314.--V. Burke's Extinct Peerage.

    6. Gladys, da. of Rygwallon, prince of Wales, said by Sir Wm. Segar
    to be wife of Walter FitzOther, ancestor of Lords Windsor; and what
    authority is there for this match?--V. Collins, &c.

As these Queries are not of general interest, I inclose a stamped envelope for the answers.

E. H. Y.

The Butler and his Man William.--These mythological personages, the grotesque creation of Mr.
Grosvenor Bedford's fertile imagination, are frequently referred to and dilated on in the letters
addressed to him by Southey (Life of Southey, by his Son, vol. ii. p. 335., &c.), when urging
Mr. Bedford to write a Pantagruelian romance on their lives and adventures, which however was
never accomplished. What therefore is the meaning of the following paragraph, which appears
at the conclusion of the review of volume ii. of Southey's Life, contained in the Gent.'s Mag.
for April, 1850, p. 359.?

     "We will only add, that with respect to the Butler mentioned at
     p. 335., the editor seems but imperfectly informed. His portrait,
     and that of his man William, are now hanging on the walls of our
     study. His Life is on our table. He himself has long since returned
     to the 'august abode' from which he came."

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

Longhi's Portraits of Guidiccioni.--The Count Alessandro Cappi of Ravenna is about to publish
an elaborate life of his fellow-townsman Luca Longhi, with very copious illustrations from
that painter's works.

He has ransacked Italy in vain for a portrait of Monsignor Giovanni Guidiccioni, President
of Romagna, painted by Luca Longhi in 1540. This portrait possesses more than ordinary interest,
since (to use the words of Armenini, author of Veri Precetti della Pittura) "fu predicato per
maraviglioso in Roma da Michelangelo Buonarrotti." Count Cappi, supposing that the picture
may have found its way to England, hopes by the publication of this notice to discover its
whereabouts. Any correspondent who shall be kind enough to furnish him, through this journal,
with the desired information, may be assured of his "più vera riconoscenza."

W. G. C.

Sir George Carr.--Wanted, pedigree and arms, wife's name and family, of Sir George Carr, who
was joint clerk of the council of Munster from 1620 to 1663, or thereabouts. Sir George had
two sons at least, William and Thomas; William was alive in 1673. Whom did he marry, and what
family had he?

Y. S. M.

Dublin.

Dean Pratt.--DR. HESSEY will feel obliged to any reader of "N. & Q." who can answer the following
questions.

At what College of what University did Dr. Samuel Pratt, Dean of Rochester, receive his education,
and by whom was he ordained?

He was born in 1658, left Merchant Taylors' school (where he passed his early years) in 1677,
and was created D.D. by royal mandate, at Cambridge, in 1697, but no college is attached to
his {409} name in the list of Cambridge graduates. Still, if he was of neither university,
it seems difficult to account for his having had the successive preferments of Chaplain to
the Princess of Denmark, Almoner to the Duke of Gloucester, Clerk of the Closet to the Queen,
and in 1706 Dean of Rochester. He died in 1728, aged seventy-one.

Merchant Taylors'.

Portrait of Franklin.--I have heard of a story to the effect that when Franklin left England,
he presented a portrait of himself, by West, to Thurlow. I am exceedingly anxious to know if
there is any foundation for this, as during the last week I saw in a shop near the chapel here,
a portrait of the philosopher which I rather suspect to be the one alluded to.

H. G. D.

Knightsbridge.

"Enquiry into the State of the Union."--A book of much importance has fallen into my hands,
entitled--

     "An Enquiry into the State of the Union of Great Britain. The past
     and present State of the public Revenues. By the Wednesday's Club
     in Friday Street. London: printed for A. and W. Bell, at the
     Cross Keys, Cornhill; J. Watts, in Bow Street, Covent Garden: and
     sold by B. Barker and C. King, in Westminster Hall; W. Mears and J.
     Brown, without Temple Bar; and W. Taylor, in Paternoster Row.
     1717."

Can any of your correspondents throw a light upon this Wednesday's Club, in Friday Street?
Was it a real club or fictitious?

By so doing you would greatly oblige me, and afford important information to this office.

JAMES A. DAVIES.

National Debt Office.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS.

Bishop of Oxford in 1164.--Among the names of the bishops who signed the Constitutions of Clarendon
I see "Bartholomeus Oxoniensis Episcopus." How is this signature accounted for? There are no
other signatures of suffragan or inferior bishops attached.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

     [Clearly a misprint for Bartholomeus Exoniensis Episcopus, the
     celebrated Bartholomew Iscanus, the opponent of Thomas à Becket.
     Our correspondent should have given the title of the work where he
     found the signatures, as they are not appended to the
     "Constitutions" in Matthew Paris, Spelman, or Wilkins.]

Roman Inscription found at Battle Bridge.--I shall be very much obliged if any one of your
numerous readers or correspondents will be so kind as to furnish me with an authentic copy
of the inscription on the Roman stone which in July 1842 was found at Battle Bridge, St. Pancras,
and also state where the original stone is to be seen. The account of the discovery of the
stone is mentioned in a paragraph which appeared in The Times newspaper of the 30th July, 1842,
in the following manner:

     "ANTIQUITIES DISCOVERED.--A Roman inscription has within these few
     days past been discovered at Battle Bridge, otherwise, by an absurd
     change of denomination, known as King's Cross, New Road, St.
     Pancras. This discovery appears fully to justify the conjectures of
     Stukeley and other antiquaries, that the great battle between the
     Britons under Boadicea and the Romans under Suetonius Paulinus took
     place at this spot. Faithful tradition, in the absence of all
     decisive evidence, still pointed to the place by the appellation of
     Battle Bridge. The inscription, which in parts is much obliterated,
     bears distinctly the letters 'LEG. XX.' The writer of this notice
     has not yet had an opportunity personally to examine it, but speaks
     from the information of an antiquarian friend. The twentieth
     legion, it is well known, was one of the four which came into
     Britain in the reign of Claudius, and contributed to its
     subjugation: the vexillation of this legion was in the army of
     Suetonius Paulinus when he made that victorious stand in a
     fortified pass, with a forest in his rear, against the insurgent
     Britons. The position is sketched by Tacitus, and antiquaries well
     know that on the high ground above Battle Bridge there are vestiges
     of Roman works, and that the tract of land to the north was
     formerly a forest. The veracity of the following passage of Tacitus
     is therefore fully confirmed:--'Deligitque locum artis
     faucibus, et a tergo sylva clausum; satis cognito, nihil hostium,
     nisi in fronte, et apertam planitiem esse, sine metu insidiarum.'
     He further tells us that the force of Suetonius was composed of
     'Quartadecima legio cum vexillariis vicessimariis et e proximis
     auxiliares.'"

S. R.

     [A sketch of this fragment of stone, discovered by Mr. E. B. Price,
     is given in the Gentleman's Magazine for August, 1842, p. 144.]

Blow-shoppes.--

     "Wild bores, bulls, and falcons bredde there in times paste; now,
     for lakke of woodde, blow-shoppes decay there."--Leland's Itin.,
     Hearne's edit., vol. vii. p. 42.

What is the meaning of blow-shoppe?

J. B.

     [Leland appears to refer to blacksmiths' forges, which decayed for
     lack of wood.]

Bishop Hesketh (Vol. vii., p 209.).--There is evidently an error in your note respecting the
death of Bishop Hesketh, but it is one common to all the lists of Manx bishops to which I have
access. You state that he died in 1510: it is certain that he was living in 1520.

He was a son of Robert Hesketh, of Rufford, co. Lanc., and his brother Richard Hesketh, "learned
in the lawe," and who is stated by Kimber to have been Attorney-General to King Hen. VIII.,
{410} by his will, dated 15th August, 1520, appointed his "trusty brethren Hugh, bishopp of
Manne, and Thomas Hesketh, esquier," executors, and proceeded:

     "I wyll that the said Bishopp shall haue a goblett of syluer w't a
     couir, and my said brothir Thomas to haue a pouncid bool of syluer,
     a counterpoynt, and a cordyn gemnete bedde w't the hangings, a
     paire of fustyan blanketts, and a paire of shetys, and a fether
     bedde that lyeth uppon the same bedde, for their labours."

So that the vacancy, if there really was any, between his death and the consecration of Bishop
Stanley, is much less than is generally supposed.

H. A.

     [Our authority for the date of Bishop Hesketh's death was Bishop
     Hildesley's MS. list of the Manx bishops, which he presented to the
     British Museum, and which appears to have been carefully compiled.
     His words are, "Huan Hesketh died 1510, and was buried in his
     cathedral of St. Germans in Peel." It is clear, however, there is
     an error somewhere, which did not escape the notice of William
     Cole, the Cambridge antiquary; for in his MS. Collections, vol.
     xxvi. p. 24., he has the following entry:--"Huan Hesketh was living
     13 Henry VIII., 1531, at which time Thomas Earl of Derby appointed,
     among others, Sir Hugh Hesketh, Bishop of Man, to be one of his
     executors. (See Collins's Peerage, vol. ii. p. 33.) Wolsey was
     appointed supervisor of the will, and is in it called Lord
     Chancellor: he was so made 1516, which proves that he was alive
     after 1510. The will of Richard Hesketh, Esq.--to be buried in his
     chapel at Rufford: executors, Hugh Hesketh, Bishop of Man, his
     brother; and Thomas Hesketh, Esq.--was proved Nov. 13, 1520. (In
     Reg. Manwaring, 3.) He continued bishop, I presume, forty-three
     years, from 1487 to 1530. It is plain he was so thirty-four
     years."]

Form of Prayer for Prisoners.--

     "It is not, perhaps, generally known, that we have a form of prayer
     for prisoners, which is printed in the Irish Common Prayer-Book,
     though not in ours. Mrs. Berkeley, in whose preface of prefaces to
     her son's poems I first saw this mentioned, regrets the omission;
     observing, that the very fine prayer for those under sentence of
     death, might, being read by the children of the poor, at least keep
     them from the gallows. The remark is just."--Southey's Omniana,
     vol. i. p. 50.

What Irish Common Prayer-Book is here meant? I have the books issued by the late Ecclesiastical
History Society, but do not see the service among them. Could the prayer referred to be transferred
to "N. & Q.;" or where is the said Irish Prayer-Book to be found?

THOMAS LAWRENCE.

Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

     [The Book of Common Prayer according to the use of the Church of
     Ireland, we believe, may frequently be met with. An edition in
     folio, 1740, is in the British Museum, containing "The Form of
     Prayer for the Visitation of Prisoners, treated upon by the
     Archbishops and Bishops, and the rest of the Clergy of Ireland, and
     agreed upon by Her Majesty's License in their Synod, holden at
     Dublin in the Year 1711." We are inclined to think that Mrs.
     Berkeley must have intended its beautiful exhortation--not the
     prayer--for the use of the poor. See "N. & Q.," Vol. vi., p. 246.]

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

EDMUND SPENSER, AND SPENSERS, OR SPENCERS, OF HURSTWOOD.

(Vol. vii., pp. 303. 362.)

Without entering on the question as to possible connexion of the poet with the family above
mentioned, the discussion may be simplified by solving a difficulty suggested by CLIVIGER (p.
362.), arising from Hurstwood Hall (another estate in Hurstwood) having been possessed by Townley,
and by explaining, 1st, The identity of the tenement once owned by Spencers; 2ndly, The seeming
cause of Whitaker's silence; and, 3rdly, The certainty of possession by the Spencers.

I. The former estate of the Spencers in Hurstwood is a tenement which was purchased by the
late Rev. John Hargreaves from the representatives of William Ormerod, of Foxstones, in Cliviger,
in 1803, and which had been conveyed in 1690, by John Spencer, then of Marsden, to Oliver Ormerod
of Hurstwood, and his son Laurence; the former of these being youngest son, by a second marriage,
of Peter Ormerod of Ormerod, and co-executor of his will in 1650. So much for the locality.

II. As for Dr. Whitaker's silence, I know, from correspondence with him (1808-1816), that,
from an irregularity in the Prerogative Office, he was not aware of this will, and uninformed
as to this second marriage, or the connexion of this purchaser's family with the parent house;
and I think it as probable that he was as unaware of the ancient possession of the purchased
tenement by Spencers, as it is certain that this theory as to the connexion of the poet with
it was then unknown. If otherwise, he would doubtless have extended his scale, and included it.

III. As to the certainty of possession by Spencers, I have brief extracts from deeds as to
this tenement as follows:--

1677. Indenture of covenants for a fine, between John Spencer the elder, and Oliver Ormerod
of Cliviger, and note of fine.

1687. Will of same John Spencer, late of Hurstwood, mentioning possession of this tenement
as the inheritance of his great-grandfather, Edmund Spencer.

1689. Family arrangements of John Spencer (the son) as to same tenement, then in occupation
of "Oliver Ormeroyde" before mentioned.

{411} 1690. Conveyance from John Spencer to O. and L. O., as before mentioned.

In Gentleman's Magazine, August, 1842 (pp. 141, 142.), will be found numerous notices of these
Spencers or Spensers, with identified localities from registers.

I think that this explanation will solve the difficulty suggested by CLIVIGER. On the main
question I have not grounds sufficient for an opinion, but add a reference to Gentleman's Magazine,
March, 1848, p. 286., for a general objection by MR. CROSSLEY, President of the Chetham Society,
who is well acquainted with the locality.

LANCASTRIENSIS.

I was about to address some photographic Queries to the correspondents of "N. & Q." when a
note caught my attention relating to Edmund Spenser (in the Number dated March 26.). The Mr.
F. F. Spenser mentioned therein was related to me, being my late father's half-brother. I regret
to say that he died very suddenly at Manchester, Nov. 2, 1852. During his lifetime, he took
much pains to clear up the doubts about the locality of the poet's retirement, and his relatives
in the North; and has made out a very clear case, I imagine. On a visit to Yorkshire in 1851,
I spent a few days with him, and took occasion to urge the necessity of arranging the mass
of information he had accumulated on the subject; which I have no doubt he would have done,
had not his sudden death occurred to prevent it. These facts may be of some interest to biographers
of the poet, and with this object I have ventured to trouble you with this communication.

J. B. SPENCER.

11. Montpellier Road, Blackheath.

       *       *       *       *       *

THROWING OLD SHOES FOR LUCK.

(Vol. ii., p. 196.; Vol. v., p. 413.; Vol. vii., pp. 193. 288.)

I do not know whether you will permit me to occupy a small portion of your valuable space in
an attempt to suggest an origin of the custom of throwing an old shoe after a newly married bride.

Your correspondents assume that the old shoe was thrown after the bride for luck, and for luck
only. I doubt whether it was so in its origin.

Among barbarous nations, all transfers of property, all assertions and relinquishments of rights
of dominion, were marked by some external ceremony or rite; by which, in the absence of written
documents, the memory of the vulgar might be impressed. When, among Scandinavian nations, land
was bought or sold, a turf was delivered by the trader to the purchaser: and among the Jews,
and probably among other oriental nations, a shoe answered the same purpose.

In Psalm lx., beginning with "O God, thou hast cast me off," there occurs the phrase, "Moab
is my washpot, over Edom have I cast out my shoe." Immediately after it occurs the exclamation,
"O God! who has cast us off!" A similar passage occurs in Psalm cix.

By this passage I understand the Psalmist to mean, that God would thoroughly cast off Edom,
and cease to aid him in war or peace. This interpretation is consistent with the whole tenor
of the Psalm.

The receiving of a shoe was an evidence and symbol of asserting or accepting dominion or ownership;
the giving back a shoe, the symbol of rejecting or resigning it.

Among the Jews, the brother of a childless man was bound to marry his widow: or, at least,
he "had the refusal of her," and the lady could not marry again till her husband's brother
had formally rejected her. The ceremony by which this rejection was performed took place in
open court, and is mentioned in Deut. xxv. If the brother publicly refused her, "she loosed
his shoe from off his foot, and spat in his face;" or, as great Hebraists translate it, "spat
before his face." His giving up the shoe was a symbol that he abandoned all dominion over her;
and her spitting before him was a defiance, and an assertion of independence. This construction
is in accordance with the opinions of Michaelis, as stated in his Laws of Moses, vol. ii. p. 31.

This practice is still further illustrated by the story of Ruth. Her nearest kinsman refused
to marry her, and to redeem her inheritance: he was publicly called on so to do by Boaz, and
as publicly refused. And the Bible adds, "as it was the custom in Israel concerning changing,
that a man plucked off his shoe and delivered it to his neighbour," the kinsman plucked off
his shoe and delivered it to Boaz as a public renunciation of Ruth, of all dominion over her,
and of his right of pre-marriage.

These ceremonies were evidently not unknown to the early Christians. When the Emperor Wladimir
made proposals of marriage to the daughter of Raguald, she refused him, saying, "That she would
not take off her shoe to the son of a slave."

There is a passage in Gregory of Tours (c. 20.) where, speaking of espousals, he says, "The
bridegroom having given a ring to the fiancée, presents her with a shoe."

From Michelet's Life of Luther we learn, that the great reformer was at the wedding of Jean
Luffte. After supper, he conducted the bride to bed, and told the bridegroom that, according
to common custom, he ought to be master in his own house when his wife was not there: and for
a symbol, he took off the husband's shoe, and put it upon the head of the bed--"afin qu'il
prit ainsi la domination et gouvernement."

{412} I would suggest for the consideration of your correspondents that the throwing a shoe
after a bride was a symbol of renunciation of dominion and authority over her by her father
or guardian; and the receipt of the shoe by the bridegroom, even if accidental, was an omen
that that authority was transferred to him.

JOHN THRUPP.

Surbiton.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORKNEYS IN PAWN.

(Vol. vii., pp. 105. 183.)

That the Orkney and Zetland Islands were transferred by Denmark to Scotland in 1468, in pledge
for payment of part of the dower of the Princess of Denmark, who was married to James III.,
King of Scotland, under right of redemption by Denmark, is an admitted historic fact; but it
is asserted by the Scottish, and denied by the Danish historians, that Denmark renounced her
right of redemption of these Islands. The question is fully discussed, with references to every
work and passage treating of the matter, in the first introductory note to the edition of The
General Grievances and Oppressions of the Isles of Orkney and Shetland, published at Edinburgh,
1836. And the writer of the note is led to the conclusion that there was no renunciation, and
that Denmark still retains her right of redemption. Mr. Samuel Laing, in his Journal of a Residence
in Norway, remarks, that the object of Torfæus' historical work, Orcades, seu Rerum Orcadensium
Historiæ libri tres, compiled by the express command of Christian V., King of Denmark, was
to vindicate the right of the Danish monarch to redeem the mortgage of the sovereignty of these
islands; and he adds, that in 1804, Bonaparte, in a proclamation addressed to the army assembled
at Boulogne for the invasion of England, descanted on the claim of Denmark to this portion
of the British dominions. In a note he has the farther statement, that in 1549 an assessment
for paying off the sum for which Orkney and Zetland were pledged was levied in Norway by Christian
III. (Vide Laing's Norway, 1837, pp. 352, 353.) From the preceding notice, it would appear,
that Denmark never renounced her right of redemption, now merely a matter of antiquarian curiosity.
And it is pertinent to mention, that the connexion of Orkney and Zetland was with Norway, not
Denmark. I observe in the Catalogue of MSS., in the Cottonian Library in the British Museum
(Titus C. VII. art. 71. f. 134.), "Notes on King of Denmark's Demand of the Orcades, 1587-8,"
which may throw some light on the matter.

In the historical sketch given by Broctuna, Kenneth II., King of Scotland, is said to have
taken the Orkneys from the Picts A.D. 838; and that they remained attached to that kingdom
till 1099, when Donald Bain, in recompense of aid given to him by Magnus, King of Norway, gifted
all the Scotch isles, including the Orkneys, to Norway. This is not what is understood to be
the history of Orkney.

In the middle of the ninth century, Harold Harfager, one of the reguli of Norway, subdued the
other petty rulers, and made himself king of the whole country. The defeated party fled to
Orkney, and other islands of the west: whence, betaking themselves to piracy, they returned
to ravage the coast of Norway. Harold pursued them to their places of refuge, and conquered
and colonised Orkney about A.D. 875. The Norwegians at that time destroyed or expelled the
race then inhabiting these islands. They are supposed to have been Picts, and to have received
Christianity at an earlier date, but it is doubtful if there were Christians in Orkney at that
period: however, Depping says expressly, that Earl Segurd, the second Norwegian earl, expelled
the Christians from these isles. I may remark, that the names of places in Orkney and Zetland
are Norse, and bear descriptive and applicable meanings in that tongue; but hesitate to extend
these names beyond the Norwegian colonisation, and to connect them with the Picts or other
earlier inhabitants. No argument can be founded on the rude and miserable subterraneous buildings
called Picts' houses, which, if they ever were habitations, or anything else than places of
refuge, must have belonged to a people in a very low grade of civilisation. Be this as it may,
Orkney and Zetland remained under the Norwegian dominion from the time of Harold Harfager till
they were transferred to Scotland by the marriage treaty in 1468, a period of about six hundred
years. What cannot easily be accounted for, is the discovery of two Orkney and Zetland deeds
of the beginning of the fifteenth century prior to the transfer, written not in Norse, but
in the Scottish language.

R. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOGARTH'S PICTURES.

(Vol. vii., p. 339.)

The numerous and interesting inquiries of AN AMATEUR respecting a catalogue of Hogarth's works
has brought to my recollection the discovery of one of them, which I was so fortunate as to
see in its original situation. About the year 1815 I was invited by a friend, who was an artist,
to visit a small public-house in Leadenhall Street, to see a picture by Hogarth: it was "The
Elephant," since, I believe, pulled down, being in a ruinous condition. In the tap-room, on
the wall, almost obscured by the dirt and smoke, and grimed by the rubbing of numberless foul
jackets, was an indisputable picture by the renowned Hogarth. It represented the meeting of
the committee of the {413} South Sea Company, and doubtless the figures were all portraits.
It was painted in his roughest manner; but every head was stamped with that character for which
he stood unrivalled. I have since heard that, when the house was pulled down, this picture
was sold as one of the lots, in the sale of furniture, and bought by a dealer. It was painted
on the wall, like a fresco; and how to remove it was the difficulty. On sounding the wall it
was found to be lath and plaster, with timber framework (the usual style of building in the
reign of Elizabeth). It was therefore determined to cut it out in substance, which was accordingly
performed; and by the help of chisels, thin crowbars, and other instruments, it was safely
detached. The plaster was then removed from the back down to the priming, and the picture was
backed with strong canvas. It was then cleaned from all its defilement, and, on being offered
for sale at a good price, was bought by a nobleman, whose name I have not heard, and is now
in his collection.

I do not know whether your correspondent has heard of Hogarth's portrait of Fielding. The story,
as I have heard or read it, is as follows:--Hogarth and Garrick sitting together after dinner,
Hogarth was lamenting there was no portrait of Fielding, when Garrick said, "I think I can
make his face."--"Pray, try my dear Davy," said the other. Garrick then made the attempt, and
so well did he succeed, that Hogarth immediately caught the likeness, and exclaimed with exultation,
"Now I have him: keep still, my dear Davy." To work he went with pen and ink, and the likeness
was finished by their mutual recollections. This sketch has been engraved from the original
drawing, and is preserved among several original drawings and prints in the illustrated copy
of Lysons's Environs, vol. i. p. 544., in the King's Library, British Museum.

While I am writing about unnoticed pictures by what may be called erratic artists, I may mention
that in the parlour of the "King's Head," corner of New Road and Hampstead Road, on the panel
of a cupboard, is a half-length of a farmer's boy, most probably the work of G. Morland, who
visited this house on his way to Hampstead, and probably paid his score by painting this picture;
which is well known to have been his usual way of paying such debts.

E. G. BALLARD.

Agreeably to the suggestion of AN AMATEUR, I beg to send you the following list of pictures,
from a catalogue in my possession:

     CATALOGUE of the Pictures and Prints, the property of the late Mrs.
     Hogarth, deceased, sold by Mr. Greenwood, the Golden Head,
     Leicester Square, Saturday, April 24, 1790.

Pictures by Mr. Hogarth.

    41. Two portraits of Ann and Mary Hogarth.
    42. A daughter of Mr. Rich the comedian, finely coloured.
    43. The original portrait of Sir James Thornhill.
    44. The heads of six servants of Mr. Hogarth's family.
    45. His own portrait--a head.
    46. A ditto--a whole-length painting.
    47. A ditto, Kit Kat, with the favourite dog, exceeding fine.
    48. Two portraits of Lady Thornhill and Mrs. Hogarth.
    49. The first sketch of the Rake's Progress.
    50. A ditto of the altar of Bristol Church.
    51. The Shrimp Girl--a sketch.
    52. Sigismunda.
    53. A historical sketch, by Sir James Thornhill.
    54. Two sketches of Lady Pembroke and Mr. John Thornhill.
    55. Three old pictures.
    56. The bust of Sir Isaac Newton, terra cotta.
    57. Ditto of Mr. Hogarth, by Roubilliac.
    58. Ditto of the favourite dog, and cast of Mr. Hogarth's hand.

W. D. HAGGARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHANTOM BELLS AND LOST CHURCHES.

(Vol. vii., pp. 128. 200. 328.)

In a little brochure entitled Christmas, its History and Antiquity, published by Slater, London,
1850, the writer says that--

     "In Berkshire it is confidently asserted, that if any one watches
     on Christmas Eve he will hear subterranean bells; and in the
     mining districts the workmen declare that at this sacred season
     high mass is performed with the greatest solemnity on that evening
     in the mine which contains the most valuable lobe of ore, which is
     supernaturally lighted up with candles in the most brilliant
     manner, and the service changed by unseen choristers."--P. 46.

The poet Uhland has a beautiful poem entitled Die Verlorne Kirche. Lord Lindsay says:

     "I subjoin, in illustration of the symbolism, and the peculiar
     emotions born of Gothic architecture, The Lost Church of the poet
     Uhland, founded, I apprehend, on an ancient tradition of the
     Sinaitic peninsula."--Sketches of Christian Art.

I give the first stanza of his translation:

    "Oft in the forest far one hears
     A passing sound of distant bells;
     Nor legends old, nor human wit,
     Can tell us whence the music swells.
     From the Lost Church 'tis thought that soft
     Faint ringing cometh on the wind:
     Once many pilgrims trod the path,
     But no one now the way can find."

See also Das Versunkene Kloster, by the same sweet poet, commencing:

    "Ein Kloster ist versunken
     Tief in den wilden See."

After Port Royal (in the West Indies) was submerged, at the close of the seventeenth century,
sailors in those parts for many years had {414} stories of anchoring in the chimneys and steeples,
and would declare they heard the church bells ringing beneath the water, agitated by the waves
or spirits of the deep.

The case of the Round Towers seen in Lough Neagh, I need not bring forward, as no sound of
bells has ever been heard from them.

There is one lost church so famous as to occur to the mind of every reader, I mean that of
the Ten Tribes of Israel. After the lapse of thousands of years, we have here an historical
problem, which time, perhaps, will never solve. We have a less famous, but still most interesting,
instance of a lost church in Greenland. Soon after the introduction of Christianity, about
the year 1000, a number of churches and a monastery were erected along the east coast of Greenland,
and a bishop was ordained for the spiritual guidance of the colony. For some four hundred years
an intercourse was maintained between this colony and Norway and Denmark. In the year 1406
the last bishop was sent over to Greenland. Since then the colony has not been heard of. Many
have been the attempts to recover this lost church of East Greenland, but hitherto in vain.

I could send you a Note on a cognate subject, but I fear it would occupy too much of your space,--that
of Happy Isles, or Islands of the Blessed. The tradition respecting these happy isles is very
wide-spread, and obtains amongst nearly every nation of the globe; it is, perhaps, a relic
of a primeval tradition of Eden. Some have caught glimpses of these isles, and some more favoured
mortals have even landed, and returned again with senses dazzled at the ravishing sights they
have seen. But in every case after these rare favours, these mystic lands have remained invisible
as before, and the way to them has been sought for in vain. Such are the tales told with reverent
earnestness, and listened to with breathless interest, not only by the Egyptians, Greeks, and
Romans of old, but by the Irishman, the Welshman, the Hindoo, and the Red Indian of to-day.

EIRIONNACH.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES.

Photographic Collodion (Vol. vii., p. 314.).--In a former communication I pointed out the wide
differences in the various manipulations prescribed for making the photographic gun cotton
by several photographers: differences most perplexing to persons of small leisure, and who
are likely to lose half the opportunities of a photographic season, whilst puzzling over these
diversities of proceeding. Suffer me now to entreat some one to whom all may look up (perhaps
your kind and experienced correspondent DR. DIAMOND will do this service, so valuable to young
photographers) to clear up the differences I will now "make a note of," viz. as to the amount
of dry photographic gun cotton to be used in forming the prepared collodion.

On comparing various authors, and reducing their directions to a standard of one ounce of ether,
I find the following differences: viz., DR. DIAMOND (Vol. vi., p. 277.) prescribes about three
grains of gun cotton; Mr. Hennah (Directions, &c., p. 5.) about seven grains; the Count de
Montizon (Journ. of Phot. Soc., p. 23.) eight grains; whilst Mr. Bingham (Supplement to Phot.
Manip., p. 2.) directs about thirty-four grains! in each case to a single ounce of ether.

These differences are too wide to come within even Mr. Archer's "long range," that "the proportions
... must depend entirely upon the strength and the thickness required ... the skill of the
operator and the season of the year." (Archer's Manual, p. 17.)

COKELY.

Filtering Collodion.--Count de Montizon, in his valuable paper on the collodion process, published
in the second number of the Journal of the Photographic Society, objects to filtration on the
ground that the silver solution is often injured by impurities contained in the paper. It may
be worth while to state, that lime, and other impurities, may be removed by soaking the filter
for a day or two, before it is used, in water acidulated with nitric acid; after which it should
be washed with hot water and dried.

T. D. EATON.

Photographic Notes (Vol. vii., p. 363.).--I wish to correct an error in my communication in
"N. & Q." of April 9: in speaking of "a more even film," I meant a film more evenly sensitive.
I am sorry I have misled MR. SHADBOLT as to my meaning. I have very rarely any "spottings"
in my pictures; but I always drop the plates once or twice into the bath, after the two minutes'
immersion, to wash off any loose particles. I also drain off all I can of the nitrate of silver
solution before placing the glass in the camera, and for three reasons:--1. Because it saves
material; 2. Because the lower part of dark frame is kept free from liquid; 3. Because a "flowing
sheet" of liquid must interfere somewhat with the passage of light to the film, and consequently
with the sharpness of the picture. I think it is clear, from MR. SHADBOLT'S directions to MR.
MERITT, that it is no very easy thing to cement a glass bath with marine glue.

J. L. SISSON. The error arose, in all {415} probability, from my having used the contractions
20" to 30".

It may appear somewhat droll for any one to answer a question on which
he has not had experience; but I beg to offer as a suggestion to
 PHOTO, that if he wishes to use collodion pictures for the purpose of
dissolving views, he should first copy them in the camera as transparent
objects so as to reverse the light and shade, then varnish them with
DR. DIAMOND'S solution of amber in chloroform, when they will bear the
application of transparent colours ground in varnish, such as are used
for painting magic-lantern slides.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Gutta Percha Baths (Vol. vii., p. 314.).--In "N. & Q." for March 26, I ventured to recommend
to H. HENDERSON gutta percha, as a material for nitrate of silver baths. I did this from a
knowledge that hundreds of them were in use, but chiefly because I have found them answer so
well. In the same Number the Editor gives MR. HENDERSON very opposite advice; and, had I seen
his opinion before my notes appeared, I should certainly have kept them back. But it is, I
think, a matter of some importance, especially to beginners, to have it settled, whether gutta
percha has the effect of causing "unpleasant markings" in collodion pictures or not. With all
due deference to the Editor's opinion, I do not believe that gutta percha baths are injurious
to the finished picture. I have never any markings in my glass positives now, but what may
be traced with certainty to some unevenness in the film or dirtiness on the glass. And I hope
that the number of beginners who are using gutta percha baths, and who are troubled with these
unpleasant markings (as all beginners are, whether they use glass or gutta percha), will not,
without some very careful experiments, lay the fault upon the gutta percha. In the Number for
April 2, the Editor thanks me for what he is pleased to call "the very beautiful specimen of
my skill." This was a small glass positive, which I sent him in accordance with an offer of
mine in a former note. Now, that was rendered sensitive in a gutta percha bath, which I have
had in use for months; and I think I may appeal to the Editor as to the absence of all unpleasant
markings in it. Probably it may be a good plan for those who make the baths for themselves
to adopt the following simple method of cleaning them at first. Fill the bath with water, changing
it every day for a week or so. Then wash it with strong nitric acid, and wash once or twice
afterwards. Always keep the nitrate of silver solution in the bath, with a cover over it. Never
filter, unless there is a great deal of extraneous matter at the bottom. If glass baths are
used, cemented together with sealing-wax, &c., I imagine they might be as objectionable as
gutta percha. The number of inquiries for a diagram of my head-rest, &c., from all parts of
the kingdom--Glasgow, Paisley, Manchester, Leicester, Leeds, Newcastle, Durham, &c. &c.--proves
the very large number of photographic subscribers "N. & Q." possesses. I think, therefore,
it cannot but prove useful to discuss in its pages the question of the advantage or disadvantage
of gutta percha.

J. L. SISSON.

Edingthorpe Rectory, North Walsham.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Pilgrimages to the Holy Land (Vol. v., p. 289.).--I beg to inform W. M. R. E. (Vol. vii., p.
341.) that, though I have never met with a printed copy of the "Itinerary to the Holy Land"
of Gabriele Capodilista (the Perugia edition of 1472, mentioned by Brunet, being undoubtedly
a book of very great rarity, and perhaps the only one ever printed), I have in my possession
a very beautiful manuscript of the work on vellum, which appears to have been presented by
the author to the nuns of St. Bernardino of Padua. It is a small folio; and the first page
is illuminated in a good Italian style of the fifteenth century. It is very well written in
the Venetian dialect, and commences thus:

     "Venerabilibus ac Devotissimis D[=n]e Abbatissæ et
     Monialibus Ecclesiæ Sancti Bernardini de Padua salut[=e] in
     D[=NO].--Ritrovandomi ne li tempi in questa mia opereta descripti,
     Io Gabriel Capodelista Cavalier Padoano dal su[=m]o Idio inspirato
     et dentro al mio cor concesso fermo proposito di vistare
     personalmente el Sanctissimo loco di Jerusalem," &c.

This MS., which was formerly in the library of the Abbati Canonici, I purchased, with others,
at Venice in 1835.

If W. M. R. E. has any wish to see it, and will communicate such wish to me through the medium
of the publisher of "N. & Q.," I shall be happy to gratify his curiosity. I do not know whether
there is any MS. of Capodilista's Itinerary in the British Museum.

W. SNEYD.

"A Letter to a Convocation Man" (Vol vii., p. 358.).--The authorship of the tract concerning
which MR. FRASER inquires, is assigned to Sir Bartholomew Shower, not by the Bodleian Catalogue
only, but also by Sir Walter Scott, in his edition of the Somers' Tracts (vol. ix. p. 411.),
as well as by Dr. Watt, in his Bibliotheca Britannica. The only authorities for ascribing it
to Dr. Binckes which I have been able to discover, are Dr. Edmund Calamy, in his Life and Times
(vol. i. p. 397.), and the Rev. Thomas Lathbury, in his History of the Convocation of the Church
of England (p. 283.); but neither of those authors gives the source from which his information
is {416} derived: and Mr. Lathbury, who appears perfectly unaware that the tract had ever been
ascribed to Sir Bartholomew Shower, a lawyer, remarks: "It is worthy of observation that the
author of the letter professes to be a lawyer, though such was not the case, Dr. Binckes being
a clergyman." Dr. Kennett also, in his Ecclesiastical Synods, p. 19., referred to by Mr. Lathbury,
speaking of Archbishop Wake's reply, says: "I remember one little prejudice to it, that it
was wrote by a divine, whereas the argument required an able lawyer; and the very writer of
the Letter to a Convocation Man suggesting himself to be of that profession, there was the
greater equity, there should be the like council of one side as there had been of the other."--It
has occurred to me that the mistake of assigning the tract to Dr. Binckes may possibly have
been occasioned by the circumstance that another tract, with the following title, published
in 1701, has the initials W. B. at the end of it,--A Letter to a Convocation Man, by a Clergyman
in the Country. I have examined both tracts, and they are quite different, and leave no appearance
of having proceeded from the same hand.

TYRO.

Dublin.

King Robert Bruce's Coffin-plate (Vol vii., p. 356.) was a modern forgery, but not discovered
to be so, of course, until after publication of the beautiful engraving of it in the Transactions
of the Scottish Society of Antiquaries, which was made at the expense of, and presented to
the Society by, the barons of the Exchequer.

I believe that a notice of the forgery was published in a subsequent volume.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Eulenspiegel or Howleglas (Vol. vii., p. 357.).--The following extract from my note-book may
be of use:

     "The German Rogue, or the Life and Merry Adventures, Cheats,
     Stratagems, and Contrivances of Tiel Eulenspiegle.

    'Let none Eulenspiegle's artifices blame,
     For Rogues of every country are the same.'

     London, printed in the year MDCCIX. The only copy of this edition I
     ever saw was one which had formerly belonged to Ritson, and which I
     purchased of Thomas Rodd, but afterwards relinquished to my old
     friend Mr. Douce."

This copy, therefore, is no doubt now in the Bodleian. I have never heard of any other.

While on the subject of Eulenspiegel, I would call your correspondent's attention to some curious
remarks on the Protestant and Romanist versions of it in the Quarterly Review, vol. xxi. p. 108.

I may also take this opportunity of informing him that a very cleverly illustrated edition
of it was published by Scheible of Stuttgart in 1838, and that a passage in the Hettlingischen
Sassenchronik (Caspar Abel's Sammlung, p. 185.), written in 1455, goes to prove that Dyll Ulnspiegel,
as the wag is styled in the Augsburgh edition of 1540, is no imaginary personage, inasmuch
as under the date of 1350 the chronicler tells of a very grievous pestilence which raged through
the whole world, and that "dosulfest sterff Ulenspeygel to Möllen."

I am unable to answer the Query respecting Murner's visit to England. The most complete account
of his life and writings is, I believe, that prefixed by Scheible to his edition of Murner's
Narrenbeschwörung, and his satirical dissertation Ob der König von England ein Lügner sey,
oder der Luther.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

Sir Edwin Sadleir (Vol. vii., p. 357.).--Sir Edwin Sadleir, of Temple Dinsley, in the county
of Hertford, Bart., was the third son of Sir Edwin Sadleir (created a baronet by Charles II.),
by Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Walter Walker, Knt., LL.D. His elder brothers having died in
infancy, he succeeded, on his father's death in 1672, to his honour and estates, and subsequently
married Mary, daughter and coheiress of John Lorymer, citizen and apothecary of London, and
widow of William Croone, M.D. This lady founded the algebra lectures at Cambridge, and also
lectures in the College of Physicians and the Royal Society. (See Chauncy's Historical Antiquities
of Hertfordshire, folio edit., 397, or 8vo. edit., ii. 179, 180.; Ward's Lives of the Gresham
Professors, 322. 325.; Sir Ralph Sadler's State Papers, ii. 610.; Weld's History of the Royal
Society, i. 289.) In the Sadler State Papers, Sir Edwin Sadleir is stated to have died 30th
September, 1706: but that was the date of Lady Sadleir's death; and, according to Ward, Sir
Edwin Sadleir survived her. He died without issue, and thereupon the baronetcy became extinct.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

Belfry Towers separate from the Body of the Church (Vol. vii., p. 333.).--The tower of the
parish church of Llangyfelach, in Glamorganshire, is raised at some little distance from the
building. In the legends of the place, this is accounted for by a belief that the devil, in
his desire to prevent the erection of the church, carried off a portion of it as often as it
was commenced; and that he was at length only defeated by the two parts being built separate.

SELEUCUS.

In addition to the bell towers unconnected with the church, noticed in "N. & Q." (Vol. vii.,
p. 333.), I beg to call the attention of J. S. A. to those of Woburn in Bedfordshire, and Henllan
in Denbighshire. The tower of the former church stands at six yards distance from it, and is
a small square building with large buttresses and four pinnacles: it {417} looks picturesque,
from being entirely covered with ivy. The tower, or rather the steeple, at Henllan, near Denbigh,
is still more remarkable, from its being built on the top of a hill, and looking down upon
the church, which stands in the valley at its foot.

CAMBRENSIS.

God's Marks (Vol. vii., p. 134.).--These are probably the "yellow spots" frequently spoken
of in old writings, as appearing on the finger-nails, the hands, and elsewhere, before death.
(See Brand's Popular Ant., vol. iii. p. 177., Bohn's edit.) In Denmark they were known under
the name Döding-knib (dead man's nips, ghost-pinches), and tokened the approaching end of some
friend or kinsman. Another Danish name was Dödninge-pletter (dead man's spots); and in Holberg's
Peder Paars (book i. song, 4.) Dödning-knæp. See S. Aspach, Dissertatio de Variis Superstitionibus,
4to., Hafniæ, 1697, p. 7., who says they are of scorbutic origin; and F. Oldenburg, Om Gjenfærd
ellen Gjengangere, 8vo., Kjöbenhavn, 1818, p. 23.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Copenhagen.

"The Whippiad" (Vol. vii., p. 393.).--The mention of The Whippiad by B. N. C. brought to my
recollection a MS. copy of that satire in this library, and now lying before me, with the autograph
of "Snelson, Trin. Coll. Oxon., 1802." There are notes appended to this copy of the verses,
and not knowing where to look in Blackwood's Magazine for the satire, or having a copy at hand
in order to ascertain if the notes are printed there also, or whether they are only to be found
in the MS., perhaps your correspondent B. N. C. will have the goodness to state if the printed
copy has notes, because, if there are none, I would copy out for the "N. & Q." those that are
written in the MS., as no doubt they would be found interesting and curious by all who value
whatever fell from the pen of the highly-gifted Reginald Heber.

Perhaps the notes may be the elucidations of some college cotemporary, and not written by Heber.

J. M.

Sir R. Taylor's Library, Oxford.

The Axe that beheaded Anne Boleyn (Vol. vii., p. 332.).--In Britton and Brayley's Memoirs of
the Tower of London, they mention (in describing the Spanish Armoury) the axe which tradition
says beheaded Anne Boleyn and the Earl of Essex; but a foot-note is added from Stow's Chronicle,
stating that the hangman cut off the head of Anne with one stroke of his sword.

THOS. LAWRENCE.

Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

Palindromical Lines (Vol. vii., pp. 178. 366.).--Besides the habitats already given for the
Greek inscription on a font, I have notes of the like at Melton Mowbray; St. Mary's, Nottingham;
in the private chapel at Longley Castle; and at Hadleigh. At this last place, it is noted in
a church book to be taken out of Gregory Nazienzen (but I never could find it), and a reference
is made to Jeremy Taylor's Great Exemplar, "Discourse on Baptism," p. 120. sect. 17.

It may be worth noticing that this Gregory was, for a short time, in the fourth century, bishop
of Constantinople; and in the Moslemised cathedral of St. Sophia, in that city, according to
Grelot, quoted in Collier's Dictionary, the same words--with the difference that "sin" is put
in the plural, sic:

    "~NIPSON ANOMÊMATA MÊ MONAN OPSIN~"--

were written in letters of gold over the place at the entrance of the church, between two porphyry
pillars, where stood two urns of marble filled with water, the use of which, when it was a
Christian temple, must be well known. The Turks now use them for holding drinking water, and
have probably done so since the time when the church was turned into a mosque, after the conquest
of Constantinople by Mahomet II., in the fifteenth century. What could induce  ZEUS (p. 366.)
to call this inscription "sotadic?" It may more fitly be called holy.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George.

These lines also are to be found on the marble basins for containing holy water, in one of
the churches at Paris.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

The Greek inscription mentioned by Jeremy Taylor is on the font in Rufford Church.

H. A.

Heuristisch (Vol. vii., p. 237.).--In reply to H. B. C. of the U. U. Club, I beg to give the
explanation of the word heuristisch, with its cognate terms, from Heyse's Allgemeines Fremdwörterbuch,
10th edition, Hanover, 1848:

    "Heuréka, gr. (von heuriskein, finden), ich hab' es gefunden,
    gefunden! Heuristik, f. die Erfindungskunst; heuristisch,
    erfindungskünstlich, erfinderisch; heuristische Methode,
    entwickelnde Lehrart, welche den Schüler zum Selbstfinden der
    Lehrsätze anleitet."

J. M.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

E. P. Schiller's Wallenstein and Ghost-Seer, Goethe's Faust, and Kant's Philosophy, have been
translated into English.

RECNAC. We cannot undertake to tell our Correspondent what is the distinction between Epic
and Ballad Poetry.

Y. S. M., who writes respecting Fees for searching Parish Registers, is referred to our 4th
Vol., p. 473., and our 5th Vol., pp. 36. 207.

S. A. S. (Bridgewater). Will our Correspondent repeat his Query respecting Loselerius Vilerius?

QUESOR. Lord Bacon's History of Henry VII. was first published in 1622.

W. B. The mercury does not lose its power by use, but should when it becomes oxydized, be strained
by squeezing it through wash-leather.

PROTOSULPH. The gilding would have been wasted. Our observations respecting blowing on the
glass apply equally when the protosulphate is used. That developing solution will keep. Stains
may be removed from the finger by cyanide of potassium; but this must be used cautiously, as
it is very poisonous.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAITLAND ON THE DARK AGES--NEW EDITION.

In 8vo., price 10s. By
the REV. S. R. MAITLAND, F.R.S. and F.S.A., some time Librarian to the
late Archbishop of Canterbury, and Keeper of the MSS. at Lambeth. ESSAYS ON THE REFORMATION in ENGLAND. 13s.
    2. EIGHT ESSAYS ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS (1852). 4s. 6d.
    3. ERUVIN; ESSAYS on Subjects connected with the NATURE, HISTORY,
         and DESTINY of MAN. Second Edition. 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUTZ'S ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY AND HISTORY, BY ARNOLD AND PAUL.

Now ready, in 12mo., price 6s. 6d., the Second Edition of

HANDBOOK OF ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY and HISTORY. With Questions. Translated from the German of Putz,
by the REV. R. B. PAUL, M.A., and edited by the late REV. THOMAS KERCHEVER ARNOLD, M.A.

Also, by the same Editors,

    1. HANDBOOK OF MEDIÆVAL HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY. 4s. 6d.
    2. HANDBOOK OF MODERN HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY. 5s. 6d.

     "The leading characteristic of these Handbooks is their exceeding
     simplicity, the excellent order with which they are arranged, the
     completeness of their details, and the remarkable accuracy and
     elaborate erudition which they exhibit in every page. They have
     this further advantage, which it is impossible to
     over-estimate--that they bring down their respective subjects to
     the very latest period, and present us with the results of the most
     recent investigations of the critics and antiquaries by whom they
     have been discussed."--Dublin Review.

RIVINGTONS. St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

EURIPIDIS BACCHÆ WITH ENGLISH NOTES.

Now ready, in 12mo., price 3s.

EURIPIDIS BACCHÆ, with ENGLISH NOTES, from the German of SCHÖNE. By the REV. HENRY BROWNE,
M.A., Canon of Waltham in the Cathedral Church, and Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Chichester.
(Forming a New Volume of ARNOLD'S SCHOOL CLASSICS.)

Recently published in this Series, edited by the late REV. T. K. ARNOLD, M.A.

    1. EURIPIDIS HIPPOLYTUS. With ENGLISH NOTES. 3s.
    2. ---- HECUBA. With ENGLISH NOTES. 3s.
    3. SOPHOCLIS OEDIPUS COLONEUS. 4s.
    4. ---- OEDIPUS TYRANNUS. 4s.
    5. ---- PHILOCTETES. 3s.
    6. ---- AJAX, 3s.
    7. ---- ANTIGONE. 4s.

*** The last five with English Notes, translated from the German of SCHNEIDEWIN.

    8. ECLOGÆ ARISTOPHANICÆ, The CLOUDS. 3s. 6d.
    9. ECLOGÆ ARISTOPHANICÆ, The BIRDS. 3s. 6d.

*** With English Notes by PROFESSOR FELTON.

RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, Fourth Edition, enlarged, with numerous Illustrations and Diagrams, price 1s. in
wrappers, cloth gilt 1s. 6d.

A PRACTICAL MANUAL of PHOTOGRAPHY. With the latest Improvements in the Collodion Process, and
Microscopic and Stereoscopic Pictures, &c. Published by CLARK, 17. Warwick Lane, London: and
sold by all Booksellers. Upon receipt of 18 Postage Stamps a Copy can be forwarded free.

       *       *       *       *       *

On May 2nd will be published, Part I. of MR. PARKER'S NEW MAGAZINE, THE NATIONAL MISCELLANY.
A New Monthly Periodical of General Literature.

On the Second of May it is designed to commence the publication of a New Monthly Periodical,
to be entitled THE NATIONAL MISCELLANY. As its name imports, it will be a Magazine of General
Literature, giving itself free range over every subject likely to be of general interest.

THE NATIONAL MISCELLANY is an attempt to supply high-principled and high-toned Literature of
a secular kind, which may be safely taken up by thoughtful persons when their more serious
reading is over, and which may also indirectly act for good on those who thrust all religious
works aside.

It will be issued in Shilling Monthly Parts, and the type and paper will be of a superior kind.

All communications and books for review must be addressed to the Editor, under cover to Mr.
Parker, 377. Strand.

London: JOHN HENRY PARKER, 377. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. KINGSLEY'S NEW WORK.

     "Deum timeto: regem honorato: virtutem colito disciplinis
     bonis operam dato."--Stat. Acad. Cantab.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMICABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, 50. Fleet Street, London.

Incorporated by Charter of Queen Anne, A.D. 1706.

      Directors.

    G. Baillie, Esq.
    The Hon. F. Byng.
    R. H. Coote, Esq.
    J. E. Davies, Esq.
    G. De Morgan, Esq.
    W. Everett, Esq.
    G. Ogle, Esq.
    M. B. Peacock, Esq.
    C. Phillips, Esq.
    J. Round, Esq.
    The Rt. Hon. Sir E. Ryan.
    T. Thompson. M.D., F.R.S.

Physician.--Francis Boott, M.D., 24. Gower Street, Bedford Square. Solicitor.--Charles Rivington,
Esq., Fenchurch Buildings. Bankers.--Messrs. Goslings & Sharpe, Fleet Street.

This Society has been established nearly a century and a half, and is the oldest Life Assurance
Institution in existence. Its principles are essentially those of Mutual Assurance, and the
whole of the profits are divided among the Members.

Assurances are granted, if desired, without participation in Profits, at reduced rates of Premium,
and upon every contingency depending on human life.

The Tables of Mortality, deduced from the Society's own experience, having satisfied the Directors
that the Rates of Premium on Single Lives might be reduced with perfect safety, a new Table
has accordingly been prepared, and the terms upon which Assurances are now effected with this
Office are shown in the subjoined extract:--

--------------------------------------------
   Age.  | With Profits. | Without Profits.
--------------------------------------------
         |  £  s.  d.    |  £  s.  d.
   15    |  1  15  3     |  1  11  9
   20    |  1  19  7     |  1  15  8
   25    |  2   4  2     |  1  19  9
   30    |  2   9  9     |  2   4  9
   35    |  2  16 10     |  2  11  2
   40    |  3   5  0     |  2  18  6
   45    |  3  15  9     |  3   8  2
   50    |  4   9  9     |  4   0  9
   55    |  5   8  9     |  4  17 10
   60    |  6  15  0     |  6   1  6
--------------------------------------------

Prospectuses and every information may be obtained at the Office.

HENRY THOS. THOMSON, Registrar.

       *       *       *       *       *{420}

THE PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION,

168. NEW BOND STREET, NEXT THE CLARENDON.

               *       *       *

An Exhibition of Photographic Pictures

By the best English and Continental Artists will be opened at the PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION,
168. NEW BOND STREET, on THURSDAY, APRIL 28. The Collection will include a great variety of
new and important Pictures recently taken by eminent Photographers, and some of the best specimens
from the late Exhibition at the Society of Arts.--Admission 6d.

               *       *       *

CALOTYPE PORTRAITS.

(By Licence of the Patentee.)

MR. PHILIP DELAMOTTE begs to announce that he has concluded an arrangement with the Patentee,
Mr. H. F. Talbot, which enables him to take Portraits by the newly-discovered Collodion Process.
The advantages which this process offers are,--Excellence of Likeness, great Convenience, and
the opportunity of Multiplying copies of the same Portrait to any extent. These Portraits have
the appearance of beautiful mezzotint engravings, with the superior accuracy which Sun-painting
must insure. One moment suffices to obtain the likeness, and no constrained position is required.
Hence a happy expression of face is instantly caught, and young children may be taken without
difficulty. To those who wish for several copies of the same Portrait, the Calotype offers
every facility, as an unlimited number of impressions may be printed, by the agency of the
sun, from the glass plate. These will all be exactly equal to the first, and may be had at
a moderate cost.

TO ARTISTS AND SCULPTORS.

MR. DELAMOTTE will be happy to photograph Artist' Paintings and Statues, and supply two or
more impressions as may be desired. He also undertakes to photograph, under the superintendence
of the Artist, the Life Model, Costume, or any required object, and to deliver the negative plate.

TO ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS.

MR. DELAMOTTE is ready to enter into engagements to photograph Buildings and Engineering Works
of all kinds, either in progress or when completed. In illustration of the advantages to be
derived by Engineers from Photography, MR. DELAMOTTE begs to refer to Mr. Fenton's Views of
Mr. Vignolles' Bridge across the Dnieper at Kieff, and to his own views of the Progress of
the Crystal Palace at Sydenham.

TO THE NOBILITY AND GENTRY.

MR. DELAMOTTE has made arrangements which enable him to take photographic views of Country
Mansions, Ancient Castles and Ruins, Villas, Cottages, Bridges or Picturesque Scenery of any
description, and to supply as many copies as may be desired.

TO THE CLERGY.

MR. DELAMOTTE will be happy to receive commissions to take photographic views of Churches--either
Exterior or Interiors--Rectories or School-houses. He will also be willing to make special
arrangements for Portraits of Clergymen, when several copies of the same portrait are required.

TO AMATEURS AND STUDENTS.

MR. DELAMOTTE gives lessons in every branch of the Photographic Art, but more especially in
the Collodion Process, which he undertakes to teach, together with the best method of Printing,
in Six Lessons.

For Terms apply to MR. PHILIP DELAMOTTE, Photographic Institution, 168. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 10s. 6d.

THE PHOTOGRAPHIC ALBUM.

PART III.

Containing Four Pictures.

    TINTERN ABBEY. By ROGER FENTON.
    THE BOY IN THE ARCH. By PHILIP DELAMOTTE.
    BURNHAM BEECHES. By ROGER FENTON.
    KENILWORTH CASTLE. By PHILIP DELAMOTTE.

Parts I. and II. are now reprinted and good impressions of the pictures are guaranteed. Part
IV. will be ready in May.

*** The Publisher apologizes for the long delay in issuing Part III. and reprinting the two
former Parts. Photographers will readily understand why no quantity of good impressions could
have been printed during the last four months.

               *       *       *

Now ready, price 16s.

PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIES.

By GEORGE SHAW, Esq. (of Queen's College, Birmingham).

Comprising,

    A MILL STREAM,
    A FOREST SCENE,
    A RUSTIC BRIDGE,
    A WELSH GLEN.

These Pictures are of large size, and are very carefully printed.

*** Should this Number meeting with the approbation of the Public, Professor Shaw will continue
the Series.

               *       *       *

Nearly ready,

THE PRACTICE OF PHOTOGRAPHY.

A MANUAL for STUDENTS and AMATEURS.

Edited by PHILIP DELAMOTTE, F.S.A.

Illustrated with a Photographic Picture taken by the Collodion Process, and a Diagram of Six
Colours, with its result in a Photographic impression.

This Manual will contain much practical information of a valuable nature.

               *       *       *

Preparing for Publication, in Parts, price One Guinea each,

PROGRESS OF THE CRYSTAL PALACE AT SYDENHAM.

Exhibited in a Series of Photographic Views taken by PHILIP DELAMOTTE.

This Work will be found of much service to Engineers and Architects, and all who are interested
in the Crystal Palace.

*** Some of these Views may be had for the Stereoscope.

               *       *       *

Preparing for Publication,

A SERIES OF PHOTOGRAPHIC PICTURES.

By HUGH OWEN, ESQ. 1853.

