  "When the inflammation of the lungs is very severe, he frequently dies
  on the third day. I know one instance of a dog dying within
  twenty-four hours after the seizure; and in that short space of time
  the greater portion of the lungs was, from exudation, converted into a
  substance nearly as solid as the liver of a sound animal. In this case
  the liver itself was considerably inflamed, and the eyes and flesh
  universally were tinged with yellow, though I did not observe anything
  obstructing the biliary ducts. In other instances I have also observed
  the eyes looking yellow.

  "The above is a description of the disease in its several forms; but
  in this, as in the diseases of the human body, there is every
  gradation in its violence.

  "There is also another affinity to some human diseases, viz., that the
  animal which has once gone through it very rarely meets with a second
  attack. Fortunately this distemper is not communicable to man. Neither
  the effluvia from the diseased dog nor the bite have proved in any
  instance infectious; but, as it has often been confounded with canine
  madness, as I have before observed, it is to be wished that it were
  more generally understood; for those who are bitten by a dog in this
  state are sometimes thrown into such perturbation that hydrophobia
  symptoms have actually arisen from the workings of the imagination.
  Mr. John Hunter used to speak of a case somewhat of this description
  in his lectures.

  "A gentleman who received a severe bite from a dog, soon after fancied
  the animal was mad. He felt a horror at the sight of liquids, and was
  actually convulsed on attempting to swallow them. So uncontrollable
  were his prepossessions, that Mr. Hunter conceived he would have died
  had not the dog which inflicted the wound been found and brought into
  his room in perfect health. This soon restored his mind to a state of
  tranquillity. The sight of water no longer afflicted him, and he
  quickly recovered." [2]

Palsy, more or less complete, is sometimes the termination of the distemper in dogs.

It is usually accompanied by chorea, and it is then, in the majority of cases, hopeless. Setons
should be inserted in the poll, being then, as nearly as possible, at the commencement of the
spinal cord. They should be well stimulated and worn a considerable time. If they fail, a plaster
composed of common pitch, with a very small quantity of yellow wax and some powdered cantharides,
spread on sheep's-skin, should be placed over the whole of the lumbar and sacral regions, extending
half-way down the thigh on either side. The bowels should be kept open by mild aperients, in
order that every source of irritation may be removed from the intestinal canal. Some mild and
general tonic will likewise be useful, such as gentian and ginger.

[Footnote 1: The following is a very frequent and unexaggerated history of distemper, when
calomel has been given in too powerful doses:

'August 30, 1828'.--A spaniel, six months old, has been ailing a fortnight, and three doses
of calomel have been given by the owner. He has violent purging, with tenesmus and blood. Half
an ounce of caster-oil administered.

'31st.' Astringents, morning, noon, and night.

'Sept. 6.' The astringents have little effect, or, if the purging is restrained one day, it
returns with increased violence on the following day. Getting rapidly thin. Begins to husk.
Astringents continued.

'10th'. The purging is at last overcome, but the huskiness has rapidly increased, accompanied
by laborious and hurried respiration.--Bleed to the extent of three ounces.

'11th'. The breathing relieved, but he obstinately refuses to eat, and is forced several times
in the day with arrow-root or strong soup.

'18th'. He had become much thinner and weaker, and died in the evening. No appearance of inflammation
on the thoracic viscera, nor in any part of the alimentary canal. The intestines are contracted
through the whole extent.

'Veterinarian', ii. 290.]

[Footnote 2: 'Medico-Chirurgical Transitions', 31st March, 1809.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XV.

SMALL-POX; MANGE; WARTS; CANCER; FUNGUS HAEMATODES; SORE FEET.

SMALL-POX.

In 1809, there was observed, at the Royal Veterinary School at Lyons, an eruptive malady among
the dogs, to which they gave the name of 'small-pox'. It appeared to be propagated from dog
to dog by contagion. It was not difficult of cure; and it quickly disappeared when no other
remedies were employed than mild aperients and diaphoretics. A sheep was inoculated from one
of these dogs. There was a slight eruption of pustules formed on the place of inoculation,
but nowhere else; nor was there the least fever.

At another time, also, at the school at Lyons, a sheep died of the regular sheep-pox. A part
of the skin was fastened, during four-and-twenty hours, on a healthy sheep, and the other part
of it on a dog, both of them being in apparent good health. No effect was produced on the dog,
but the sheep died of confluent sheep-pox.

The essential symptoms of small-pox in dogs succeed each other in the following order: the
skin of the belly, the groin, and the inside of the fore arm, becomes of a redder colour than
in its natural state, and sprinkled with small red spots irregularly rounded. They are sometimes
isolated, sometimes clustered together. The near approach of this eruption is announced by
an increase of fever.

On the second day the spots are larger, and the integument is slightly tumefied at the centre
of each.

On the third day the spots are generally enlarged, and the skin is still more prominent at
the centre.

On the fourth day the summit of the tumour is yet more prominent. Towards the end of that day,
the redness of the centre begins to assume a somewhat gray colour. On the following days, the
pustules take on their peculiar characteristic appearance, and cannot be confounded with any
other eruption, On the summit is a white circular point, corresponding with a certain quantity
of nearly transparent fluid which it contains, and covered by a thin and transparent pellicle.
This fluid becomes less and less transparent, until it acquires the colour and consistence
of pus. The pustule, during its serous state, is of a rounded form. It is flattened when the
fluid acquires a purulent character, and even slightly depressed towards the close of the period
of suppuration, and when that of desiccation is about to commence, which ordinarily happens
towards the ninth or tenth day of the eruption. The desiccation and the desquamation occupy
an exceedingly variable length of time; and so, indeed, do all the different periods of the
disease. What is the least inconstant, is the duration of the serous eruption, which is about
four days, if it has been distinctly produced and guarded from all friction. If the general
character of the pustules is considered, it will be observed, that, while some of them are
in a state of serous secretion, others will only have begun to appear.

The eruption terminates when desiccation commences in the first pustules; and, if some red
spots show themselves at that period of the malady, they disappear without being followed by
the development of pustules. They are a species of abortive pustules. After the desiccation,
the skin remains covered by brown spots, which, by degrees, die away. There remains no trace
of the disease, except a few superficial cicatrices on which the hair does not grow.

The causes which produce the greatest variation in the periods of the eruption are, the age
of the dog, and the temperature of the situation and of the season. The eruption runs through
its different stages with much more rapidity in dogs from one to five months old than in those
of greater age. I have never seen it in dogs more than eighteen months old. An elevated temperature
singularly favours the eruption, and also renders it confluent and of a serous character. A
cold atmosphere is unfavourable to the eruption, or even prevents it altogether. Death is almost
constantly the result of the exposure of dogs having small-pox to any considerable degree of
cold. A moderate temperature is most favourable to the recovery of the animal. A frequent renewal
or change of air, the temperature remaining nearly the same, is highly favourable to the patient;
consequently close boxes or kennels should be altogether avoided.

I have often observed, that the perspiration or breath of dogs labouring under variola emits
a very unpleasant odour. This smell is particularly observed at the commencement of the desiccation
of the pustules, and when the animals are lying upon dry straw; for the friction of the bed
against the pustules destroys their pellicles, and permits the purulent matter to escape; and
the influence of this purulent matter is most pernicious. The fever is increased, and also
the unpleasant smell from the mouth, and that of the faeces. In this state there is a disposition
which is rapidly developed in the lungs to assume the character of pneumonia. This last complication
is a most serious one, and almost always terminates fatally. It has a peculiar character. It
shows itself suddenly, and with all its alarming symptoms. It is almost immediately accompanied
by a purulent secretion from the bronchi, and the second day does not pass without the characters
of pneumonia being completely developed. The respiration is accompanied by a mucous 'rale'
which often becomes sibilant. The nasal cavities are filled with a purulent fluid. The dog
that coughs violently at the commencement of the disease, employs himself, probably, on the
following day, in ejecting, by a forcible expulsion from the nostrils, the purulent secretion
which is soon and plentifully developed. When he is lying quiet, and even when he seems to
be asleep, there is a loud, stertorous, guttural breathing.

MANGE.

The existence of certain insects found burrowing under the skin of the human being, and of
various tribes of animals, has been acknowledged from the 12th century. In the 17th century,
correct engravings of these insects were produced. On the other hand many doubted their existence,
because it had not been their lot to see them. In 1812, Gales, a pupil in the hospital of St.
Louis, pretended to have found some of them. They were put into the hands of M. Raspail, of
Paris, who proved that they were nothing more than the common cheese-mites; and substituted
by Gales for those seen by Bonomo.

Professor Hertwig, of Berlin, has given a graphic sketch of these insects (Veterinarian, vol.
xi. pp. 373, 489).

Mr. Holthouse states that, "placed on the skin of a healthy individual, they excite a disease
in the part to which they were confined, having all the characters of scabies; that insects
taken from mangy sheep, horses, and dogs, and transplanted to healthy individuals of the same
species, produce in them a disease analogous to that in the animals from which they were taken;
and that there are too many well-attested cases on record to permit us to doubt of scabies
having been communicated from animals to man."

Mange may in some degree be considered as an hereditary disease. A mangy dog is liable to produce
mangy puppies, and the progeny of a mangy bitch will certainly become affected sooner or later.
In many cases a propensity to the disease will be speedily produced. If the puppies are numerous,
and confined in close situations, the effluvia of their transpiration and faecal discharges
will often be productive of mange very difficult to be removed. Close confinement, salted food,
and little exercise, are frequent causes of mange.

'The Scabby Mange' is a frequent form which this disease assumes. It assumes a pustular and
scabby form in the red mange, particularly in white-haired dogs, when there is much and painful
inflammation. A peculiar eruption, termed surfeit, which resembles mange, is sometimes the
consequence of exposure to cold after a hot sultry day. Large blotches appear, from which the
hair falls and leaves the skin bare and rough. Acute mange sometimes takes on the character
of erysipelas; at other times there is considerable inflammation. The animal exhibits heat
and restlessness, and ulcerations of different kinds appear in various parts, superficial but
extensive. Bleeding, aperient and cooling medicines are indicated, and also applications of
the subacetate of lead, or spermaceti ointment. A weak infusion of tobacco may be resorted
to when other things fail, but it must be used with much caution. The same may be said of all
mercurial preparations. The tanner's pit has little efficacy, except in slight cases. Slight
bleedings may be serviceable, and especially in full habits; setons may be resorted to in obstinate
cases. A change in the mode of feeding will often be useful. Mild purgatives, and especially
Epsom salts, are often beneficial, and also mercurial alternatives, as AEthiop's mineral with
cream of tartar and nitre. The external applications require considerable caution. If mercury
is used, care must be taken that the dog does not lick it. The diarrhoea produced by mercury
often has a fatal effect.

Unguents are useful, but considerable care must be taken in their application. They must be
applied to the actual skin, not over the hair. In old and bad cases much time and patience
will be requisite. Mr. Blaine had a favourite setter who had virulent mange five years. He
was ordered to be dressed every day, or every second day, before the disease was complete conquered.

Cutaneous affections have lately been prevalent to an extent altogether unprecedented on this
and on the other side of the channel. In the latter part of 1843 the disease assumed a character
which had not been known among us for many years. The common mange, which we used to think
we could easily grapple with, was now little seen: even the usual red mange with the fox-coloured
stain was not of more frequent occurrence than usual, but an intolerable itchiness with comparatively
little redness of skin, and rarely sufficient to account for the torture which the animal seemed
to endure, and often with not the slightest discoloration of the integument, came before us
almost every day, and under its influence the dog became ill-tempered, dispirited, and emaciated,
until he sunk under its influence. All unguents were thrown away here. Lotions of corrosive
sublimate, decoction of bark, infusion of digitalis or tobacco, effected some little good;
but the persevering use of the iodine of potassium, purgatives, and the abstraction of blood
very generally succeeded.

The sudden appearance of redness of the skin, and exudation from it, and actual sores attending
the falling off of the hair, and itching, that seemed to be intolerable, have also been prevalent
to an unprecedented extent. This mange, however, is to a certain degree manageable. A dose
or two of physic should he given, with an application of a calamine powder, and the administration
of the iodide of potassium.

Mr. Blaine gives a most valuable account of mange in the dog, part of which I shall quote somewhat
at length. Mange exerts a morbid constitutional action on the skin; it is infectious from various
miasmata, and it is contagious from personal communication. In some animals it may be produced
by momentary contact; it descends to other animals of various descriptions; there is no doubt
that it is occasionally hereditary: it is generated by effluvia of many various kinds; almost
every kind of rancid or stimulating food is the parent of it. High living with little exercise
is a frequent cause of it, and the near approach of starvation is not unfavorable to it. The
scabby mange is the common form under which it generally appears. In red mange the whole integument
is in a state of acute inflammation; surfeit, or blotches, a kind of cuticular eruption breaks
out on particular parts of the body without the slightest notice, and, worse than all, a direct
febrile attack, with swelling and ulceration, occurs, under which the dog evidently suffers
peculiar heat and pain. Last of all comes local mange. Almost every eruptive disease, whether
arising from the eye, the ear, the scrotum, or the feet, is injurious to the quality as well
as the health of every sporting dog: the scent invariably becomes diseased, and the general
powers are impaired.

There are several accounts of persons who, having handled mangy dogs, have been affected with
an eruption very similar to the mange. A gentleman and his wife who had been in the habit of
fondling a mangy pug dog, were almost covered with an eruption resembling mange. Several of
my servants in the dog-hospital have experienced a similar attack; and the disease was once
communicated to a horse by a cat that was accustomed to lie on his back as he stood in the stall.

WARTS.

These are often unpleasant things to have to do with. A Newfoundland dog had the whole of the
inside of his mouth lined with warts. I applied the following caustic:--Hyd. suc-corrosivi
[Symbol: ounce] j., acidi mur. [Symbol: ounce], alcoholis [Symbol: ounce] iiij., aquae [Symbol:
ounce] ij. The warts were touched twice every day, and in less than a fortnight they had all
disappeared.

Another dog had its mouth filled with warts, and the above solution was applied. In four days
considerable salivation came on, and lasted a week, but at the expiration of that time the
warts had vanished. The owner of the dog had applied the solution with the tip of her finger;
she experienced some salivation, which she attributed to this cause.

The skin of the dog, from the feebleness of its perspiratory functions, is little sensible
to the influence of diaphoretics: therefore we trust so much to external applications for the
cure of diseases of the skin of that animal.

CANCER

This is a disease too frequent among females of the dog tribe, and occasionally seen in the
male. Its symptoms, local and general, are various. They are usually very obscure in their
commencement; they increase without any limit; they are exasperated by irritants of any kind;
and in the majority of cases their reproduction is almost constant, and perfectly incurable.

With regard to the female, it is mostly connected with the secretion of milk. Two or three
years may pass, and at almost every return of the period of oestrum, there will be some degree
of enlargement or inflammation of the teats. Some degree of fever also appears; but, after
a few weeks have passed away, and one or two physic balls have been administered, everything
goes on well. In process of time, however, the period of oestrum is attended by a greater degree
of fever and enlargement of the teats, and at length some diminutive hardened nuclei, not exceeding
in size the tip of a finger, are felt within one of the teats. By degrees they increase in
size; they become hard, hot, and tender. A considerable degree of redness begins to appear.
Some small enlargements are visible. The animal evidently exhibits considerable pain when these
enlargements are pressed upon. They rapidly increase, they become more hot and red, various
shining protuberances appear about the projection, and at length the tumour ulcerates. A considerable
degree of sanious matter flows from the aperture.

The tumours, however, after a while diminish in size; the heat and redness diminish; the ulcer
partly or entirely closes, but, after a while, and especially when the next period of oestrum
arrives, the tumour again increases, and with far greater rapidity than before, and then comes
the necessity of the removal of the tumour, or if not, the destruction of the animal. In the
great majority of cases, the removal of the cancer does not destroy the dog, but lessens its
torture. The knife and the forceps must usually be resorted to, and in the hands of a skilful
surgeon the life of the animal will be saved.

When the cancer is attached to the neighbouring parts by cellular substance alone, no difficulty
will be experienced in detaching the whole of it. The operation will be speedily performed,
and there will be an end of the matter; but, if the tumour has been neglected, and the muscular,
the cellular, or even the superficial parts have been attacked, the utmost caution is requisite
that every diseased portion shall be removed. Mr. Blaine adds to this that

  "it must also be taken into the account, that, although in the canine
  cancer ulceration does not often reappear in the intermediate part,
  when the operation has been judiciously performed, yet, when the
  constitution has been long affected with this ulcerative action, it is
  very apt to show itself in some neighbouring part soon after."

FUNGUS HAEMATODES.

In the month of March, 1836, a valuable pointer dog was sent to Mr. Adam of Beaufort, quite
emaciated, with total loss of appetite and with a large fungus haematodes about the middle
of the right side of his neck. It had begun to appear about five months before, and was not
at first larger than a pea. Mr. Adam gave him a purgative of Barbadoes aloes, which caused
the discharge of much fetid matter from the intestines. At the expiration of three days he
removed the tumour with the knife. There was a full discharge of healthy matter from the wound.
During the period of its healing the animal was well fed, and ferruginous tonics were given.
In a little more than three weeks the wound had completely filled up with healthy granulations,
and the dog was sent home to all appearance quite well.

At the expiration of three months another tumour made its appearance near the situation of
the former one, growing fast; it had attained nearly the size of the other. Mr. Adam removed
it immediately, ordering a system of nutritive feeding and tonics. It appeared at first to
go on favourable; but, five days after the removal of the second one, a third made its appearance.

This was removed at the expiration of another five days; but the animal was totally unable
to walk, with very laborious breathing and cold extremities. A cathartic was given and the
legs bandaged; but the wounds made no progress towards healing, and at the end of three days
he died. On exposing the cavity of the thorax it was almost covered with variously formed tumours,
from the size of a pigeon's egg to that of a small pea. The intercostal muscles had many of
these adhering to them, and a few small ones were developed on the heart. There were three
on the diaphragm, in the centre of which matter was formed. The blood-vessels, kidneys, &c.,
were free from disease. These tumours were white, or nearly so, rather hard, and of a glandular
substance. The external ones were soft, red, and almost destitute of blood-vessels, except
the first, which bled considerably. There was dropsy of the abdomen.

SORE FEET

Sore feet constitute a frequent and troublesome complaint. It consists of inflammation of the
vascular substance, between the epidermis and the parts beneath. It is the result of numerous
slight contusions, produced by long travelling in dry weather, or hunting over a hard and rough
country, or one covered with frost and snow. The irritation with which it commences continues
to increase and a certain portion of fluid is determined to the feet, and tubercles are formed,
hard, hot, and tender, until the whole foot is in a diseased state, considerably enlarged.
The animal sadly suffers, and is scarcely able to stand up for a minute. Sometimes the ardour
of the chase will make him for a while forget all this; but on his return, and when he endeavours
to repose himself, it is with difficulty that he can be got up again. The toes become enlarged,
the skin red and tender, and the horny sole becomes detached and drops. Local fever, and that
to a considerable extent, becomes established; it reacts on the general economy of the animal,
who scarcely moves from his bed, and at length refuses all food. At other times a separation
takes place between the dermis and the epidermis, which is a perfect mass of serosity.

Still, however, it is only when all this has much increased, or has been neglected, that any
permanently dangerous consequences take place. When violent inflammation has set in, the feet
must be carefully attended to, or the dog may be lamed for life. One or two physic-balls may
be given; all salted meat should be removed, and the animal supplied with food without being
compelled to move from his bed. The feet should be bathed with warm water, and a poultice of
linseed meal applied to them twice in the day. If, as is too often the case, he should tear
this off, the feet should be often fomented. It is bad practice in any master of dogs to suffer
them to be at all neglected when there are any tokens of inflammation of the feet. The neglect
of even a few days may render a dog a cripple for life. If there are evident appearances of
pus collecting about the claws, or any part of the feet, the abscess should be opened, well
bathed with warm water, and friar's balsam applied to the feet.

When the feet have been neglected, the nail is apt to grow very rapidly, and curve round and
penetrate into the foot. The forceps should he applied, and the claws reduced to their proper size.

If there are any indications of fever, or if the dog should be continually lying down, or he
should hold up his feet, and keep them apart as much as he can, scarifications or poultices,
or both, should be resorted to.

When the feet of a dog become sore in travelling, the foolish habit of washing them with brine
should never be permitted, although it is very commonly resorted to. Warm fomentations, or
warm pot-liquor, or poultices of linseed meal should be applied, or, if matter is apparently
forming, the lancet may be resorted to.

Dogs are frequently sent to the hospital with considerable redness between the toes, and ichorous
discharge, and the toes thickened round the base of the nails, as if they were inclined to
drop off. The common alterative medicine should be given, and a lotion composed of hydrarg.
oxym. gr. vi., alcohol [Symbol: ounce] j., et aq. calcis [Symbol: ounce] iiij., should he applied
to the feet three times every day. Leathern gloves should be sewn on them. These cases are
often very obstinate.

Generally speaking, the dog has five toes on the fore feet, and four on the hind feet, with
a mere rudiment of a fifth metatarsal bone in some feet; but, in others, the fifth bone is
long and well proportioned, and advances as far as the origin of the first phalanx of the neighbouring
toe.

[The editor begs leave to add a more detailed and systematic treatise of the affections generally
attacking the feet and limbs of our dogs.

DISEASES OF THE FEET.

SORE FEET.

Inflammation of the feet, a disease somewhat analogous to founder in horses, and often attended
with equally bad results, particularly in the English kennels, is comparatively rare with us,
although there are few sportsmen but have met with some cases among their dogs. The feet become
tender, swollen, and hot, violent inflammatory action sets in, the toes become sore, the claws
diseased, and the balls very painful, and often suppurate.

The animal is thus speedily rendered useless; not being able to support his body, owing to
the intense pain, he remains in his house, and employs the most of his time in temporarily
assuaging his sufferings by constantly licking the diseased members.

'Causes'.--Running long distances over frozen or stony grounds, hunting over a rough and ill-cleaned
country, over-feeding, confinement, and lazy habits, are all conducive in some measure to this
affection.

This form of disease is not uncommon among those dogs used in toling ducks on the Chesapeake
bay, these animals being obliged to run incessantly to and fro over the gravel shores, in their
efforts to attract the canvass-back.  We have seen many dogs that have been made cripples by
this arduous work, and rendered prematurely old while yet in their prime. It would certainly
be wise and humane on the part of those who pursue this sport either for pleasure or gain,
to provide suitable boots for these sagacious animals, who in return would repay such kindness
by increased ardour and length of service. These articles might be made of leather, or some
other durable substance, in such a manner that they could be laced on every morning before
commencing their labours.

The claws should be allowed to project through openings in the boot, as this arrangement will
give much more freedom to the feet, and the boot itself will not be destroyed so soon by the
penetration of the toes through its substance. Boots thus neatly made will neither interfere
with his locomotive nor swimming powers, but add greatly to the comfort of the animal, and
secure his services for many years.

'Treatment'.--No stimulating applications to the feet are to be used, such as salt water, ley,
fish brine, or urine, but rather emollient poultices and cooling washes. These last-mentioned
remedies should be carefully applied, and the dog confined to his house as much as possible:
in fact, there is little difficulty in restraining him in this respect, as he has but little
inclination or ability to move about.

Purging balls should be administered every night, and blood abstracted if there be much fever,
as indicated in the heat, swelling, and pain of the limbs.

If the balls continue to swell, and there is a collection of pus within them, they may be opened
by the lancet, and the contents evacuated, after which apply a linseed poultice. When the inflammation
has subsided, simple dressings of melted butter or fresh lard will generally effect a cure.

PUSTULAR AFFECTION OF THE FEET.

Dogs frequently have a pustular eruption between the toes, either accompanying mange or some
other skin disease, or entirely independent of any other affection.

'Causes'.--Want of cleanliness, bad housing, improper food, vermin, and depraved constitution.

'Treatment'.--Frequent washing with castile soap and water will correct this disease; the feet
and legs after washing should be rubbed dry, particularly between the toes.  When the pustules
are large, they may be opened with the lancet and a poultice applied. If the disease appears
complicated with mange, or dependent upon other general causes, the primary affection must
be removed by the proper remedies, which generally carries off with the secondary disease.

SPRAINS

It is not an uncommon occurrence for dogs, while running, climbing fences, or jumping ditches,
to sprain themselves very severely in the knee, or more frequently in the shoulder-joint; and
if not properly attended to, will remain cripples for life, owing to enlargement of the tendon
and deposition of matter.

We once had a fine, large, powerful bull-dog, that sprained himself in the shoulder while running
very violently in the street after another dog, and in some way, owing to the great eagerness
to overtake the other, tripped up when at the top of his speed, fell on his chest, and when
he arose commenced limping, and evidently suffered from considerable pain. On taking him home,
we examined his feet, limbs, and chest very particularly, expecting to find a luxation or fracture
of some of the bones of the leg or feet, or perhaps the presence of a piece of glass or other
article deeply imbedded in the ball. None of the above accidents, however, being brought to
light by our examination, or that of a medical friend who expressed a wish to see our patient,
we concluded that a simple sprain of some of the tendons had taken place.

On the following day there was slight swelling and tenderness of the shoulder-joint, accompanied
by great unwillingness to put the foot to the ground, owing to the pain that seemed to be produced
by the extension of the leg. The limb was fomented, and the dog confined for several days,
till the swelling and tenderness disappeared; but, greatly to our astonishment and that of
others, he still remained lame as before.

This lameness continued for several months, when we parted with him, sending him to a relative
in the country, who informed us that he never recovered the use of his limb, but that it became
shrivelled and deformed for want of use.

The cause of lameness in this dog is as unaccountable as some cases of lameness we see in horses.
We are convinced that there was neither fracture nor luxation, nor any other unnatural displacement
of the parts, and can attribute it to nothing but enlargement of one of the tendons of the
shoulder-joint resulting from inflammation. If it had been in our power, we should have liked
to have examined this animal after death.

'Treatment'.--Hot fomentations to the part affected, together with purging balls and bleeding,
if there be great tenderness and swelling of the limb. When the inflammation and tumefaction
have disappeared, rub the parts with opodeldoc, or other stimulating mixtures.

WOUNDS OF THE FEET.

Dogs are apt to cut their feet by stepping upon sharp tools, bits of oyster-shell, old iron,
&c., or by the introduction of thorns, burrs, nails, bits of glass, and other articles, into
their balls.

'Treatment'.--If the cut be very deep, or divides the ball, the foot must be washed in tepid
water, and the edges of the wound drawn together and retained in their position by a couple
of sutures or a strap or two of adhesive plaster, and the animal confined.

Where thorns or sand-burrs have pierced the foot, diligent search should be made to extract
them, or the wound will suppurate, and the dog continue lame for a long time. This caution
is particularly necessary when minute particles of glass have entered the foot. A poultice
in such cases should be applied, after removing every particle within our reach, and the, foot
be wrapped up, or, what is better, enclosed in a boot of some kind, sufficiently strong to
protect it from the dirt or other small particles which otherwise would enter the wound and
prevent its healing. In a case of great emergency, one of our friends hunted a setter dog three
successive days in a leather boot, which we instructed a country cobbler to put on him to protect
his foot from a recent and deep cut, that he had received from treading upon some farming utensils.
The boot was taken off every night, the foot nicely cleaned, the leather oiled and replaced
ready for the following day. The wound afterwards healed up, and no trace of the incision now
remains. The boot should be made of stout, flexible leather, and extend beyond the first joint;
the seam must be in front, so as not to interfere with the dog's tread. There should be openings
for the claws, and the sole large enough to allow the expansion of the ball pads when in motion:
a small layer of tow had better be laid on the bottom of the foot before putting on the boot.

