RED MEN AND WHITE

 BY

 OWEN WISTER

 ILLUSTRATED

 BY FREDERIC REMINGTON

 NEW YORK AND LONDON
 HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS

 Copyright, 1895, by HARPER & BROTHERS.

 Printed in the United States of America.

 TO

 S. B. W. AND O. J. W.

 FROM THEIR SON

PREFACE

These eight stories are made from our Western Frontier as it was in a past as near as yesterday
and almost as by-gone as the Revolution; so swiftly do we proceed. They belong to each other
in a kinship of life and manners, and a little through the nearer tie of having here and there
a character in common. Thus they resemble faintly the separate parts of a whole, and gain,
perhaps, something of the invaluable weight of length; and they have been received by my closest
friends with suspicion.

Many sorts of Americans live in America; and the Atlantic American, it is to be feared, often
has a cautious and conventional imagination. In his routine he has lived unaware of the violent
and romantic era in eruption upon his soil. Only the elk-hunter has at times returned with
tales at which the other Atlantic Americans have deported themselves politely; and similarly,
but for the assurances of Western readers, I should have come to doubt the truth of my own
impressions. All this is most natural.

If you will look upon the term "United States" as describing what we are, you must put upon
it a strict and Federal construction. We undoubtedly use the city of Washington for our general
business office, and in the event of a foreign enemy upon our coasts we should stand bound
together more stoutly than we have shown ourselves since 1776. But as we are now, seldom has
a great commonwealth been seen less united in its stages of progress, more uneven in its degrees
of enlightenment. Never, indeed, it would seem, have such various centuries been jostled together
as they are to-day upon this continent, and within the boundaries of our nation. We have taken
the ages out of their processional arrangement and set them marching disorderly abreast in
our wide territory, a harlequin platoon. We citizens of the United States date our letters
18--, and speak of ourselves as living in the present era; but the accuracy of that custom
depends upon where we happen to be writing. While portions of New York, Chicago, and San Francisco
are of this nineteenth century, we have many ancient periods surviving among us. What do you
say, for example, to the Kentucky and Tennessee mountaineers, with their vendettas of blood
descending from father to son? That was once the prevailing fashion of revenge. Yet even before
the day when Columbus sailed had certain communities matured beyond it. This sprout of the
Middle Ages flourishes fresh and green some five hundred miles and five hundred years from
New York. In the single State of Texas you will find a contrast more violent still. There,
not long ago, an African was led upon a platform in a public place for people to see, and tortured
slowly to death with knives and fire. To witness this scene young men and women came in crowds.
It is said that the railroad ran a special train for spectators from a distance. How might
that audience of Paris, Texas, appropriately date its letters? Not Anno Domini, but many years
B.C. The African deserves no pity. His hideous crime was enough to drive a father to any madness,
and too many such monsters have by their acts made Texas justly desperate. But for American
citizens to crowd to the retribution, and look on as at a holiday show, reveals the Inquisition,
the Pagans, the Stone Age, unreclaimed in our republic. On the other hand, the young men and
women who will watch side by side the burning of a negro shrink from using such words as bull
or stallion in polite society; many in Texas will say, instead, male cow and caviard horse
(a term spelled as they pronounce it), and consider that delicacy is thus achieved. Yet in
this lump Texas holds leaven as sterling as in any State; but it has far to spread.

It were easy to proceed from Maine to California instancing the remote centuries that are daily
colliding within our domain, but this is enough to show how little we cohere in opinions. How
many States and Territories is it that we count united under our Stars and Stripes? I know
that there are some forty-five or more, and that though I belong among the original thirteen,
it has been my happiness to journey in all the others, in most of them, indeed, many times,
for the sake of making my country's acquaintance. With no spread-eagle brag do I gather conviction
each year that we Americans, judged not hastily, are sound at heart, kind, courageous, often
of the truest delicacy, and always ultimately of excellent good-sense. With such belief, or,
rather, knowledge, it is sorrowful to see our fatal complacence, our as yet undisciplined folly,
in sending to our State Legislatures and to that general business office of ours at Washington
a herd of mismanagers that seems each year to grow more inefficient and contemptible, whether
branded Republican or Democrat. But I take heart, because often and oftener I hear upon my
journey the citizens high and low muttering, "There's too much politics in this country"; and
we shake hands.

But all this is growing too serious for a book of short stories. They are about Indians and
soldiers and events west of the Missouri. They belong to the past thirty years of our development,
but you will find some of those ancient surviving centuries in them if you take my view. In
certain ones the incidents, and even some of the names, are left unchanged from their original
reality. The visit of Young-man-afraid-of-his-horses to the Little Big Horn and the rise and
fall of the young Crow impostor, General Crook's surprise of E-egante, and many other occurrences,
noble and ignoble, are told as they were told to me by those who saw them. When our national
life, our own soil, is so rich in adventures to record, what need is there for one to call
upon his invention save to draw, if he can, characters who shall fit these strange and dramatic
scenes? One cannot improve upon such realities. If this fiction is at all faithful to the truth
from which it springs, let the thanks be given to the patience and boundless hospitality of
the Army friends and other friends across the Missouri who have housed my body and instructed
my mind. And if the stories entertain the ignorant without grieving the judicious I am content.

CONTENTS

                                                       PAGE

 LITTLE BIG HORN MEDICINE                                3

 SPECIMEN JONES                                         36

 THE SERENADE AT SISKIYOU                               64

 THE GENERAL'S BLUFF                                    82

 SALVATION GAP                                         115

 THE SECOND MISSOURI COMPROMISE                        131

 LA TINAJA BONITA                                      159

 A PILGRIM ON THE GILA                                 211

ILLUSTRATIONS

 SPECIMEN JONES                             Frontispiece

 "BOASTING IN INDIAN FASHION"              Facing page 6

 "HIS HORSE DREW CLOSE, SHOVING THE HORSE
 OF THE MEDICINE-MAN"                            "      14

 "THE HEAD LAY IN THE WATER"                     "      34

 AN APACHE                                       "      38

 CUMNOR'S AWAKENING                              "      52

 THE MEXICAN FREIGHT-WAGON                       "      58

 "'AIN'T Y'U GOT SOMETHING TO SELL?'"            "      90

 THE CHARGE                                      "     102

 "HE HESITATED TO KILL THE WOMAN"                "     112

 THE SHOT-GUN MESSENGER                          "     122

 "'I'D LIKE TO HAVE IT OVER'"                    "     128

 "HIS PLAN WAS TO WALK AND KEEP QUIET"           "     148

 "'DON'T NOBODY HURT ANYBODY,' SAID SPECIMEN
 JONES"                                          "     156

 "'YOU DON'T WANT TO TALK THIS WAY.
 YOU'RE ALONE'"                                  "     204

 "EACH BLACK-HAIRED DESERT FIGURE"               "     238

RED MEN AND WHITE

LITTLE BIG HORN MEDICINE

Something new was happening among the Crow Indians. A young pretender had appeared in the tribe.
What this might lead to was unknown alike to white man and to red; but the old Crow chiefs
discussed it in their councils, and the soldiers at Fort Custer, and the civilians at the agency
twelve miles up the river, and all the white settlers in the valley discussed it also. Lieutenants
Stirling and Haines, of the First Cavalry, were speculating upon it as they rode one afternoon.

"Can't tell about Indians," said Stirling. "But I think the Crows are too reasonable to go
on the war-path."

"Reasonable!" said Haines. He was young, and new to Indians.

"Just so. Until you come to his superstitions, the Indian can reason as straight as you or
I. He's perfectly logical."

"Logical!" echoed Haines again. He held the regulation Eastern view that the Indian knows nothing
but the three blind appetites.

"You'd know better," remarked Stirling, "if you'd been fighting 'em for fifteen years. They're
as shrewd as Æsop's fables."

Just then two Indians appeared round a bluff--one old and shabby, the other young and very
gaudy--riding side by side.

"That's Cheschapah," said Stirling. "That's the agitator in all his feathers. His father, you
see, dresses more conservatively."

The feathered dandy now did a singular thing. He galloped towards the two officers almost as
if to bear them down, and, steering much too close, flashed by yelling, amid a clatter of gravel.

"Nice manners," commented Haines. "Seems to have a chip on his shoulder."

But Stirling looked thoughtful. "Yes," he muttered, "he has a chip."

Meanwhile the shabby father was approaching. His face was mild and sad, and he might be seventy.
He made a gesture of greeting. "How!" he said, pleasantly, and ambled on his way.

"Now there you have an object-lesson," said Stirling. "Old Pounded Meat has no chip. The question
is, are the fathers or the sons going to run the Crow Nation?"

"Why did the young chap have a dog on his saddle?" inquired Haines.

"I didn't notice it. For his supper, probably--probably he's getting up a dance. He is scheming
to be a chief. Says he is a medicine-man, and can make water boil without fire; but the big
men of the tribe take no stock in him--not yet. They've seen soda-water before. But I'm told
this water-boiling astonishes the young."

"You say the old chiefs take no stock in him yet?"

"Ah, that's the puzzle. I told you just now Indians could reason."

"And I was amused."

"Because you're an Eastern man. I tell you, Haines, if it wasn't my business to shoot Indians
I'd study them."

"You're a crank," said Haines.

But Stirling was not a crank. He knew that so far from being a mere animal, the Indian is of
a subtlety more ancient than the Sphinx. In his primal brain--nearer nature than our own--the
directness of a child mingles with the profoundest cunning. He believes easily in powers of
light and darkness, yet is a sceptic all the while. Stirling knew this; but he could not know
just when, if ever, the young charlatan Cheschapah would succeed in cheating the older chiefs;
just when, if ever, he would strike the chord of their superstition. Till then they would reason
that the white man was more comfortable as a friend than as a foe, that rations and gifts of
clothes and farming implements were better than battles and prisons. Once their superstition
was set alight, these three thousand Crows might suddenly follow Cheschapah to burn and kill
and destroy.

"How does he manage his soda-water, do you suppose?" inquired Haines.

"That's mysterious. He has never been known to buy drugs, and he's careful where he does his
trick. He's still a little afraid of his father. All Indians are. It's queer where he was going
with that dog."

Hard galloping sounded behind them, and a courier from the Indian agency overtook and passed
them, hurrying to Fort Custer. The officers hurried too, and, arriving, received news and orders.
Forty Sioux were reported up the river coming to visit the Crows. It was peaceable, but untimely.
The Sioux agent over at Pine Ridge had given these forty permission to go, without first finding
out if it would be convenient to the Crow agent to have them come. It is a rule of the Indian
Bureau that if one tribe desire to visit another, the agents of both must consent. Now, most
of the Crows were farming and quiet, and it was not wise that a visit from the Sioux and a
season of feasting should tempt their hearts and minds away from the tilling of the soil. The
visitors must be taken charge of and sent home.

"Very awkward, though," said Stirling to Haines. He had been ordered to take two troops and
arrest the unoffending visitors on their way. "The Sioux will be mad, and the Crows will be
madder. What a bungle! and how like the way we manage Indian affairs!" And so they started.

Thirty miles away, by a stream towards which Stirling with his command was steadily marching
through the night, the visitors were gathered. There was a cook-fire and a pot, and a stewing
dog leaped in the froth. Old men in blankets and feathers sat near it, listening to young Cheschapah's
talk in the flighty lustre of the flames. An old squaw acted as interpreter between Crow and
Sioux. Round about, at a certain distance, the figures of the crowd lounged at the edge of
the darkness. Two grizzled squaws stirred the pot, spreading a clawed fist to their eyes against
the red heat of the coals, while young Cheschapah harangued the older chiefs.

"And more than that, I, Cheschapah, can do," said he, boasting in Indian fashion. "I know how
to make the white man's heart soft so he cannot fight." He paused for effect, but his hearers
seemed uninterested. "You have come pretty far to see us," resumed the orator, "and I, and
my friend Two Whistles, and my father, Pounded Meat, have come a day to meet you and bring
you to our place. I have brought you a fat dog. I say it is good the Crow and the Sioux shall
be friends. All the Crow chiefs are glad. Pretty Eagle is a big chief, and he will tell you
what I tell you. But I am bigger than Pretty Eagle. I am a medicine-man."

He paused again; but the grim old chiefs were looking at the fire, and not at him. He got a
friendly glance from his henchman, Two Whistles, but he heard his father give a grunt.

That enraged him. "I am a medicine-man," he repeated, defiantly. "I have been in the big hole
in the mountains where the river goes, and spoken there with the old man who makes the thunder.
I talked with him as one chief to another. I am going to kill all the white men."

At this old Pounded Meat looked at his son angrily, but the son was not afraid of his father
just then. "I can make medicine to bring the rain," he continued. "I can make water boil when
it is cold. With this I can strike the white man blind when he is so far that his eyes do not
show his face."

He swept out from his blanket an old cavalry sabre painted scarlet. Young Two Whistles made
a movement of awe, but Pounded Meat said, "My son's tongue has grown longer than his sword."

Laughter sounded among the old chiefs. Cheschapah turned his impudent yet somewhat visionary
face upon his father. "What do you know of medicine?" said he. "Two sorts of Indians are among
the Crows to-day," he continued to the chiefs. "One sort are the fathers, and the sons are
the other. The young warriors are not afraid of the white man. The old plant corn with the
squaws. Is this the way with the Sioux?"

"With the Sioux," remarked a grim visitor, "no one fears the white man. But the young warriors
do not talk much in council."

Pounded Meat put out his hand gently, as if in remonstrance. Other people must not chide his son.

"You say you can make water boil with no fire?" pursued the Sioux, who was named Young-man-afraid-of-his-horses,
and had been young once.

Pounded Meat came between. "My son is a good man," said he. "These words of his are not made
in the heart, but are head words you need not count. Cheschapah does not like peace. He has
heard us sing our wars and the enemies we have killed, and he remembers that he has no deeds,
being young. When he thinks of this sometimes he talks words without sense. But my son is a
good man."

The father again extended his hand, which trembled a little. The Sioux had listened, looking
at him with respect, and forgetful of Cheschapah, who now stood before them with a cup of cold
water.

"You shall see," he said, "who it is that talks words without sense."

Two Whistles and the young bucks crowded to watch, but the old men sat where they were. As
Cheschapah stood relishing his audience, Pounded Meat stepped up suddenly and upset the cup.
He went to the stream and refilled it himself. "Now make it boil," said he.

Cheschapah smiled, and as he spread his hand quickly over the cup, the water foamed up.

"Huh!" said Two Whistles, startled.

The medicine-man quickly seized his moment. "What does Pounded Meat know of my medicine?" said
he. "The dog is cooked. Let the dance begin."

The drums set up their dull, blunt beating, and the crowd of young and less important bucks
came from the outer circle nearer to the council. Cheschapah set the pot in the midst of the
flat camp, to be the centre of the dance. None of the old chiefs said more to him, but sat
apart with the empty cup, having words among themselves. The flame reared high into the dark,
and showed the rock wall towering close, and at its feet the light lay red on the streaming
water. The young Sioux stripped naked of their blankets, hanging them in a screen against the
wind from the jaws of the cañon, with more constant shouts as the drumming beat louder, and
strokes of echo fell from the black cliffs. The figures twinkled across each other in the glare,
drifting and alert, till the dog-dance shaped itself into twelve dancers with a united sway
of body and arms, one and another singing his song against the lifted sound of the drums. The
twelve sank crouching in simulated hunt for an enemy back and forth over the same space, swinging
together.

Presently they sprang with a shout upon their feet, for they had taken the enemy. Cheschapah,
leading the line closer to the central pot, began a new figure, dancing the pursuit of the
bear. This went faster; and after the bear was taken, followed the elk-hunt, and a new sway
and crouch of the twelve gesturing bodies. The thudding drums were ceaseless; and as the dance
went always faster and always nearer the dog pot, the steady blows of sound inflamed the dancers;
their chests heaved, and their arms and bodies swung alike as the excited crew filed and circled
closer to the pot, following Cheschapah, and shouting uncontrollably. They came to firing pistols
and slashing the air with knives, when suddenly Cheschapah caught up a piece of steaming dog
from the pot, gave it to his best friend, and the dance was done. The dripping figures sat
quietly, shining and smooth with sweat, eating their dog-flesh in the ardent light of the fire
and the cool splendor of the moon. By-and-by they lay in their blankets to sleep at ease.

The elder chiefs had looked with distrust at Cheschapah as he led the dance; now that the entertainment
was over, they rose with gravity to go to their beds.

"It is good for the Sioux and the Crows to be friends," said Pounded Meat to Young-man-afraid-of-his-horses.
"But we want no war with the white man. It is a few young men who say that war is good now."

"We have not come for war," replied the Sioux. "We have come to eat much meat together, and
remember that day when war was good on the Little Horn, and our warriors killed Yellow Hair
and all his soldiers."

Pounded Meat came to where he and Cheschapah had their blankets.

"We shall have war," said the confident son to his father. "My medicine is good."

"Peace is also pretty good," said Pounded Meat. "Get new thoughts. My son, do you not care
any more for my words?"

Cheschapah did not reply.

"I have lived a long while. Yet one man may be wrong. But all cannot be. The other chiefs say
what I say. The white men are too strong."

"They would not be too strong if the old men were not cowards."

"Have done," said the father, sternly. "If you are a medicine-man, do not talk like a light fool."

The Indian has an "honor thy father" deep in his religion too, and Cheschapah was silent. But
after he was asleep, Pounded Meat lay brooding. He felt himself dishonored, and his son to
be an evil in the tribe. With these sore notions keeping him awake, he saw the night wane into
gray, and then he heard the distant snort of a horse. He looked, and started from his blankets,
for the soldiers had come, and he ran to wake the sleeping Indians. Frightened, and ignorant
why they should be surrounded, the Sioux leaped to their feet; and Stirling, from where he
sat on his horse, saw their rushing, frantic figures.

"Go quick, Kinney," he said to the interpreter, "and tell them it's peace, or they'll be firing
on us."

Kinney rode forward alone, with one hand raised; and seeing that sign, they paused, and crept
nearer, like crafty rabbits, while the sun rose and turned the place pink. And then came the
parley, and the long explanation; and Stirling thanked his stars to see they were going to
allow themselves to be peaceably arrested. Bullets you get used to; but after the firing's
done, you must justify it to important personages who live comfortably in Eastern towns and
have never seen an Indian in their lives, and are rancid with philanthropy and ignorance.

Stirling would sooner have faced Sioux than sentimentalists, and he was fervently grateful
to these savages for coming with him quietly without obliging him to shoot them. Cheschapah
was not behaving so amiably; and recognizing him, Stirling understood about the dog. The medicine-man,
with his faithful Two Whistles, was endeavoring to excite the prisoners as they were marched
down the river to the Crow Agency.

Stirling sent for Kinney. "Send that rascal away," he said. "I'll not have him bothering here."

The interpreter obeyed, but with a singular smile to himself. When he had ordered Cheschapah
away, he rode so as to overhear Stirling and Haines talking. When they speculated about the
soda-water, Kinney smiled again. He was a quiet sort of man. The people in the valley admired
his business head. He supplied grain and steers to Fort Custer, and used to say that business
was always slow in time of peace.

By evening Stirling had brought his prisoners to the agency, and there was the lieutenant of
Indian police of the Sioux come over from Pine Ridge to bring them home. There was restlessness
in the air as night fell round the prisoners and their guard. It was Cheschapah's hour, and
the young Crows listened while he declaimed against the white man for thwarting their hospitality.
The strong chain of sentinels was kept busy preventing these hosts from breaking through to
fraternize with their guests. Cheschapah did not care that the old Crow chiefs would not listen.
When Pretty Eagle remarked laconically that peace was good, the agitator laughed; he was gaining
a faction, and the faction was feeling its oats. Accordingly, next morning, though the prisoners
were meek on being started home by Stirling with twenty soldiers, and the majority of the Crows
were meek at seeing them thus started, this was not all. Cheschapah, with a yelling swarm of
his young friends, began to buzz about the column as it marched up the river. All had rifles.

"It's an interesting state of affairs," said Stirling to Haines. "There are at least fifty
of these devils at our heels now, and more coming. We've got twenty men. Haines, your Indian
experiences may begin quite early in your career."

"Yes, especially if our prisoners take to kicking."

"Well, to compensate for spoiling their dinner-party, the agent gave them some rations and
his parting blessing. It may suffice."

The line of march had been taken up by ten men in advance, followed in the usual straggling
fashion by the prisoners, and the rear-guard was composed of the other ten soldiers under Stirling
and Haines. With them rode the chief of the Crow police and the lieutenant of the Sioux. This
little band was, of course, far separated from the advance-guard, and it listened to the young
Crow bucks yelling at its heels. They yelled in English. Every Indian knows at least two English
words; they are pungent, and far from complimentary.

"It's got to stop here," said Stirling, as they came to a ford known as Reno's Crossing. "They've
got to be kept on this side."

"Can it be done without gunpowder?" Haines asked.

"If a shot is fired now, my friend, it's war, and a court of inquiry in Washington for you
and me, if we're not buried here. Sergeant, you will take five men and see the column is kept
moving. The rest remain with me. The prisoners must be got across and away from their friends."

The fording began, and the two officers went over to the east bank to see that the instructions
were carried out.

"See that?" observed Stirling. As the last of the rear-guard stepped into the stream, the shore
they were leaving filled instantly with the Crows. "Every man jack of them is armed. And here's
an interesting development," he continued.

It was Cheschapah riding out into the water, and with him Two Whistles. The rear guard passed
up the trail, and the little knot of men with the officers stood halted on the bank. There
were nine--the two Indian police, the two lieutenants, and five long muscular boys of K troop
of the First Cavalry. They remained on the bank, looking at the thick painted swarm that yelled
across the ford.

"Bet you there's a hundred," remarked Haines.

"You forget I never gamble," murmured Stirling. Two of the five long boys overheard this, and
grinned at each other, which Stirling noted; and he loved them. It was curious to mark the
two shores: the feathered multitude and its yells and its fifty yards of rifles that fronted
a small spot of white men sitting easily in the saddle, and the clear, pleasant water speeding
between. Cheschapah and Two Whistles came tauntingly towards this spot, and the mass of Crows
on the other side drew forward a little.

"You tell them," said Stirling to the chief of the Crow police, "that they must go back."

Cheschapah came nearer, by way of obedience.

"Take them over, then," the officer ordered.

The chief of Crow police rode to Cheschapah, speaking and pointing. His horse drew close, shoving
the horse of the medicine-man, who now launched an insult that with Indians calls for blood.
He struck the man's horse with his whip, and at that a volume of yells chorussed from the other
bank.

"Looks like the court of inquiry," remarked Stirling. "Don't shoot, boys," he commanded aloud.

The amazed Sioux policeman gasped. "You not shoot?" he said. "But he hit that man's horse--all
the same hit your horse, all the same hit you."

"Right. Quite right," growled Stirling. "All the same hit Uncle Sam. But we soldier devils
have orders to temporize." His eye rested hard and serious on the party in the water as he
went on speaking with jocular unconcern. "Tem-po-rize, Johnny," said he. "You savvy temporize?"

"Ump! Me no savvy."

"Bully for you, Johnny. Too many syllables. Well, now! he's hit that horse again. One more
for the court of inquiry. Steady, men! There's Two Whistles switching now. They ought to call
that lad Young Dog Tray. And there's a chap in paint fooling with his gun. If any more do that--it's
very catching--Yes, we're going to have a circus. Attention! Now what's that, do you suppose?"

An apparition, an old chief, came suddenly on the other bank, pushing through the crowd, grizzled
and little and lean, among the smooth, full-limbed young blood. They turned and saw him, and
slunk from the tones of his voice and the light in his ancient eye. They swerved and melted
among the cottonwoods, so that the ford's edge grew bare of dusky bodies and looked sandy and
green again. Cheschapah saw the wrinkled figure coming, and his face sank tame. He stood uncertain
in the stream, seeing his banded companions gone and the few white soldiers firm on the bank.
The old chief rode to him through the water, his face brightened with a last flare of command.

"Make your medicine!" he said. "Why are the white men not blind? Is the medicine bad to-day?"
And he whipped his son's horse to the right, and to the left he slashed the horse of Two Whistles,
and, whirling the leather quirt, drove them cowed before him and out of the stream, with never
a look or word to the white men. He crossed the sandy margin, and as a man drives steers to
the corral, striking spurs to his horse and following the frightened animals close when they
would twist aside, so did old Pounded Meat herd his son down the valley.

"Useful old man," remarked Stirling; "and brings up his children carefully. Let's get these
prisoners along."

"How rural the river looks now!" Haines said, as they left the deserted bank.

So the Sioux went home in peace, the lieutenants, with their command of twenty, returned to
the post, and all white people felt much obliged to Pounded Meat for his act of timely parental
discipline--all except one white person.

Sol Kinney sauntered into the agency store one evening. "I want ten pounds of sugar," said
he, "and navy plug as usual. And say, I'll take another bottle of the Seltzer fizz salts. Since
I quit whiskey," he explained, "my liver's poorly."

He returned with his purchase to his cabin, and set a lamp in the window. Presently the door
opened noiselessly, and Cheschapah came in.

"Maybe you got that now?" he said, in English.

The interpreter fumbled among bottles of liniment and vaseline, and from among these household
remedies brought the blue one he had just bought. Cheschapah watched him like a child, following
his steps round the cabin. Kinney tore a half-page from an old Sunday World, and poured a little
heap of salts into it. The Indian touched the heap timidly with his finger. "Maybe no good,"
he suggested.

"Heap good!" said the interpreter, throwing a pinch into a glass. When Cheschapah saw the water
effervesce, he folded his newspaper with the salt into a tight lump, stuck the talisman into
his clothes, and departed, leaving Mr. Kinney well content. He was doing his best to nourish
the sinews of war, for business in the country was discouragingly slack.

Now the Crows were a tribe that had never warred with us, but only with other tribes; they
had been valiant enough to steal our cattle, but sufficiently discreet to stop there; and Kinney
realized that he had uphill work before him. His dearest hopes hung upon Cheschapah, in whom
he thought he saw a development. From being a mere humbug, the young Indian seemed to be getting
a belief in himself as something genuinely out of the common. His success in creating a party
had greatly increased his conceit, and he walked with a strut, and his face was more unsettled
and visionary than ever. One clear sign of his mental change was that he no longer respected
his father at all, though the lonely old man looked at him often with what in one of our race
would have been tenderness. Cheschapah had been secretly maturing a plot ever since his humiliation
at the crossing, and now he was ready. With his lump of newspaper carefully treasured, he came
to Two Whistles.

"Now we go," he said. "We shall fight with the Piegans. I will make big medicine, so that we
shall get many of their horses and women. Then Pretty Eagle will be afraid to go against me
in the council. Pounded Meat whipped my horse. Pounded Meat can cut his hay without Cheschapah,
since he is so strong."

But little Two Whistles wavered. "I will stay here," he ventured to say to the prophet.

"Does Two Whistles think I cannot do what I say?"

"I think you make good medicine."

"You are afraid of the Piegans."

"No, I am not afraid. I have hay the white man will pay me for. If I go, he will not pay me.
If I had a father, I would not leave him." He spoke pleadingly, and his prophet bore him down
by ridicule. Two Whistles believed, but he did not want to lose the money the agent was to
pay for his hay. And so, not so much because he believed as because he was afraid, he resigned
his personal desires.

The next morning the whole band had disappeared with Cheschapah. The agent was taken aback
at this marked challenge to his authority--of course they had gone without permission--and
even the old Crow chiefs held a council.

Pretty Eagle resorted to sarcasm. "He has taken his friends to the old man who makes the thunder,"
he said. But others did not feel sarcastic, and one observed, "Cheschapah knows more than we know."

"Let him make rain, then," said Pretty Eagle. "Let him make the white man's heart soft."

The situation was assisted by a step of the careful Kinney. He took a private journey to Junction
City, through which place he expected Cheschapah to return, and there he made arrangements
to have as much whiskey furnished to the Indian and his friends as they should ask for. It
was certainly a good stroke of business. The victorious raiders did return that way, and Junction
City was most hospitable to their thirst. The valley of the Big Horn was resonant with their
homeward yells. They swept up the river, and the agent heard them coming, and he locked his
door immediately. He listened to their descent upon his fold, and he peeped out and saw them
ride round the tightly shut buildings in their war-paint and the pride of utter success. They
had taken booty from the Piegans, and now, knocking at the store, they demanded ammunition,
proclaiming at the same time in English that Cheschapah was a big man, and knew a "big heap
medicine." The agent told them from inside that they could not have any ammunition. He also
informed them that he knew who they were, and that they were under arrest. This touched their
primitive sense of the incongruous. On the buoyancy of the whiskey they rode round and round
the store containing the agent, and then rushed away, firing shots at the buildings and shots
in the air, and so gloriously home among their tribe, while the agent sent a courier packing
to Fort Custer.

