"Peace!" she cried. "You came here to make good an accusation, not to intrude upon our patience
with these remarks." Then turning to Gomez Arias, she continued in a tone of mingled sternness
and compassion--

"Don Lope, you gave this ring to the Moor?"

"I did," replied Gomez Arias, gloomily, but dauntless.

"An oath," resumed the renegade, "will surely be held sacred with a Christian. Let one be taken
by that man," he added, pointing to Roque, who was now endeavouring to effect his escape, as
he beheld, with dismay, the unexpected and serious turn the affair was taking, and felt repugnant
to criminate his former master, for whom he still preserved a feeling of respect.

"Secure the man," continued Bermudo, "and we will then see how far I am justified in my assertions."

"Silence!" again exclaimed the queen, inwardly grieved at the evidence that was pressing against
Don Lope. "Silence, Moor: we need not thy instructions."

A mixture of pity and amazement prevailed throughout the assembly. They met to congratulate
a victor, and they were now to consider him as one who had not scrupled to outrage the laws
of his country, and for the purpose of accomplishing a detestable crime. So extraordinary and
contradictory a situation appeared to some impossible; yet nothing is beyond the compass of
the passions when unrestrained in their headlong career.

The feelings of the unfortunate Theodora were such as to beggar description. There she was
obliged to stand and witness the accusation of her husband, brought by her means into this
dreadful situation. But her dismay was doubly augmented when she observed the queen rise, and
in a solemn manner, address the surrounding train.

"Christians," she said, "I bitterly deplore this melancholy event, which changes a day of triumph
into one of sorrow. Governor of Granada," she then added, turning to Count de Tendilla, "to
you I commit the person of Don Lope Gomez Arias, accused of treason to the state. See that
he be safely guarded, though respectfully treated--and you, Don Lope, prepare to stand a trial
for your life."

"For his life!" exclaimed Theodora with horror; and she fixed her imploring eyes on the queen.

Gomez Arias heard the decision of his sovereign with more indignation than fear, and in the
bitterness of his soul, he said, turning to his adherents--

"My friends, be zealous to serve your country, for you perceive the recompense and encouragement
which await you in a day of triumph."

"Don Lope," cried the queen with warmth, "charge not to your country what has been the effect
of your unrestrained passions and imprudence; nor carry your insolence so far as to imagine
and insinuate that I can wantonly sport with the life of the meanest of my subjects, much less
with yours. You shall be judged by your peers, who will not neglect any extenuation in your
favor, and it shall be only on irresistible evidence that the decree of justice shall be pronounced."

She then made a signal for the assembly to disperse, and every one retired in deep consternation.
A deadly silence prevailed as they slowly left the hall, and to the joyful sounds of popular
feeling which had lately been heard, now succeeded the murmurs of grief and astonishment.

As it was feared that the friends of Gomez Arias might be tempted to some rash act, proper
precautions were taken, that the public tranquillity should not be disturbed. Mohabed and the
other prisoners were confined in dungeons, and Monteblanco and his wretched daughter, by the
desire of the queen, remained at the palace until the fate of Gomez Arias should be decided.

CHAPTER X.

    A do el favor antiguo? a do la gloria
      De mi pasado tiempo y venturoso?
    A do tantos despojos y vitoria!

                                Herrera.

    I am merrier to die, than thou art to live.

                                Shakespeare.

The fatal day of the trial arrived; the evidence was heard, the facts fully substantiated.
Gomez Arias convicted of treason and condemned to lose his head on a scaffold! This sentence
filled the inhabitants of Granada with indescribable horror. The man, who a few days before
had been the theme of general admiration; he, who came victorious, borne on the wings of fortune
to the highest pinnacle of honor, was now, by the same capricious turn of fate, shorn of all
his dignity and splendor, and condemned to the horrors of an ignominious death. He, who had
so long awakened the jealousy of the great, was now the object of general compassion.

Theodora had been schooled in affliction, and familiarized with suffering, yet when she was
apprised of the result of the trial, many circumstances conspired to add to the intensity of
her grief. She considered herself as the primary, though innocent cause of her husband's untimely
fate; all his ingratitude and cruelty; all the treachery of which he had been guilty towards
her, were now forgotten, and her vivid fancy, excited by the extent of the danger, now saw
nothing but his brilliant qualities, and his untimely fate. Doubly dear was Gomez Arias to
Theodora, when she perceived him on the brink of destruction. Hope, however, did not entirely
forsake her, though the boding voice of grief, which floated on the air, soon dissolved so
enchanting an illusion. If expectation had been great, the disappointment was now doubly terrible;
the sentence had been pronounced, and the queen alone could mitigate its rigour by virtue of
the royal prerogative. To this last hope Theodora clung with fond expectation; Isabella was
humane and a woman; she had, it was true, acquired celebrity by the rigid and unimpeachable
justice of her decisions, but could she send to the scaffold, a young and gallant nobleman,
to whom she stood indebted for a brilliant victory, without infringing the sacred principles
of that justice. She was a woman, and though heroic and high-minded, still nature must have
planted in her bosom the genuine attributes of her sex. Pity, humanity, generosity, would stifle
the sterner voice of duty, and she could not repel from her throne, the humble, yet noble supplicants
for mercy; she would be deeply moved by the tears of one, whom but lately she had made a bride,
and whom another word would make a widow. Besides, the application of many intimate friends,
and many of the first families in the kingdom, could not be utterly disregarded by the queen,
to whom their services had been so important.

These soothing ideas in some measure lulled Theodora's apprehensions, and she successfully
combated the idea of losing him for ever. Unfortunate woman! soon she was doomed to learn the
fallacy of her expectations! Several strong appeals had already been made to the queen; the
first families of Granada had deeply interested themselves in favor of Gomez Arias, but all
applications had met with a disheartening and absolute repulse. Nor indeed could the queen
be taxed with ingratitude and cruelty, for she adduced powerful reasons in her answer to the
supplicants, to prove her inability to comply with their request, without at the same time
giving her subjects an example of unjustifiable partiality. A week had not elapsed, since six
men had been executed in the Plaza de Bivarrambla, on account of the same offence for which
Don Lope stood condemned. With this melancholy precedent, even the most sanguine in their expectations
began to droop, and the death of Gomez Arias was looked upon as an inevitable misfortune.

