A bas-relief at Kabah, described in Mr. Stephens' account of his second journey, bears considerable
resemblance to that on the so-called "sacrificial stone" of Mexico; and the warrior has the
characteristic Mexican maquahuitl, or "Hand-wood," a mace set with rows of obsidian teeth.

A curious ornament is met with in the Central American sculptures, representing a serpent with
a man's face looking out from between its distended jaws; and we find a similar design in the
Aztec picture-writings, sculptures, and pottery.

A remarkable peculiarity in the Aztec picture-writings is that the personages represented often
have one or more figures of tongues suspended in mid-air near their mouths, indicating that
they are speaking, or that they are persons in authority. Such tongues are to be seen on the
Yucatan sculptures.

One of the panels on the Pyramid of Xochicalco seems to have a bearing upon this subject, I
mean that of the cross-legged chief, of which I have just spoken.

In the first place, sitting cross-legged is not an Aztec custom. I do not think we ever saw
an Indian in Mexico sitting cross-legged. In the picture-writings of the Aztecs, the men sit
doubled up, with their chins almost touching their knees; while the women have their legs tucked
under them, and their feet sticking out on the left side. On the other hand, this attitude
is quite characteristic of the Yucatan sculptures. At Copan there is an altar, with sixteen
chiefs sitting cross-legged round it; and, moreover, one of them has a head-dress very much
like that of the Xochicalco chief (except that it has no serpent), and others are more or less
similar; while I do not recollect anything like it in the Mexican picture-writings. The curious
perforated eye-plates of the Xochicalco chief, which he wore--apparently--to keep arrows and
javelins out of his eyes, are part of the equipment of the Aztec warrior in the picture-writings,
while Palenque and Copan seemed to afford no instance of them; so that in two peculiarities
the remarkable sculpture before us seems to belong rather to Yucatan than to Mexico, and in
one to Mexico rather than to Yucatan.

It is not even possible in all cases to distinguish Central American sculptures from those
of Mexican origin. Among the numerous stone figures in Mr. Christy's museum, some are unmistakably
of Central American origin, and some as certainly Mexican; but beside these, there are many
which both their owner and myself, though we had handled hundreds of such things, were obliged
to leave on the debatable ground between the two classes.

So much for the resemblances. But the differences are of much greater weight. The pear-shaped
heads of most of the Central American figures, whose peculiar configuration is only approached
by the wildest caricatures of Louis Philippe, are perfectly distinctive. So are the hieroglyphics
arranged in squares, found on the sculptures of Central America and in the Dresden Codex. So
is the general character of the architecture and sculpture, as any one may see at a glance.

It is quite true that the so-called Aztec Astronomical Calendar was in use in Central America,
and that many of the religious observances in both countries, such as the method of sacrificing
the human victims, and the practice of the worshippers drawing blood from themselves in honour
of the gods, are identical. But there were several ways in which this might have been brought
about, and it is no real proof that the civilization of either country was an offshoot from
that of the other. To consider it as such would be like arguing that the negroes of Cuba and
the Indians of Yucatan had derived their civilization one from the other, because both peoples
are Roman Catholics, and use the same almanac. On the whole I am disposed to conclude that
the civilizations of Mexico and Central America were originally independent, but that they
came much into contact, and thus modified one another to no small extent.

At the risk of being prosy, I will mention the a priori grounds upon which we may argue that
the civilization of Central America did not grow up there, but was brought ready-made by a
people who emigrated there from some other country. There is a theory afloat, that it is only
in temperate climates that barbarous nations make much progress in civilizing themselves. In
tropical countries the intensity of the heat makes man little disposed for exertion, and the
luxuriance of the vegetation supplies him with the little he requires. In such climates--say
the advocates of this theory--man acknowledges the supremacy of nature over himself, and gives
up the attempt to shape her to his own purposes; and thus, in these countries, the inhabitants
go on from generation to generation, lazily enjoying their existence, making no effort, and
indeed feeling no desire to raise themselves in the social scale. Upon this theory, therefore,
when we find a high civilization in hot countries, as in the plains of India, we have to account
for it by supposing an immigration of races bringing their civilization with them from more
temperate climates. This theory of civilization favours the idea of the Central American cities
having been built by a people from Mexico. The climate of the Mexican highlands, which may
be taken in a rough way to correspond with that of North Italy, is well suited to a nation's
development. But the cities of Yucatan and Chiapas, though geographically not far removed from
the Mexican plateau, are brought by their small elevation above the sea into a very different
climate. They are in the land of tropical heat and the rankest vegetation, in the midst of
dense forests where pestilential fevers and overwhelming lassitude make it almost impossible
for Europeans to live, and where the Indians who still inhabit the neighbourhood of the ruined
cities are the merest savages sunk in the lowest depths of lazy ignorance.

If this climate-theory of progress have any truth in it, no barbarous tribe could have raised
itself in such a country to the social state which is indicated by the ruins of such temples
and cities. They must have been settlers from some more temperate region.

While wandering about the hill of Xochicalco we came upon a spot that strongly excited our
curiosity. It was simply a small paved oval space with a little altar at one end, and, lying
round about it, some fragments of what seemed to have been a hideous grotesque idol of baked
clay. Perhaps it was a shrine dedicated to one of the inferior deities, such as often surrounded
the greater temples; for, in Mexico, astronomy, astrology, and religion had become mixed up
together, as they have been in other quarters of the globe, and even the astronomical signs
of days and months had temples of their own.

Xochicalco means "In the House of Flowers." The word "flower,"--xochitl,--is often a part of
the names of Mexican places and people, such as the lake of Xochimilco--"In the Flower-plantation."
Tlilxochitl, literally "black flower," is the Aztec name for vanilla, so that the name of that
famous Mexican historian, Ixtlilxochitl, whose name sticks in the throats of readers of Prescott,
means "Vanilla-face." Why the place was called "In the House of Flowers" is not clear. The
usual explanation seems not unlikely, that it was because offerings of flowers and first-fruits
were made upon its shrines. The Toltecs, say the Mexican chroniclers, did not sacrifice human
victims; and it was not until long after other tribes had taken possession of their deserted
temples, that the Aztecs introduced the custom by sacrificing their prisoners of war. It seems
odd, however, that one of the Toltec kings should have been called Topiltzin, which was the
title of the chief priest among the Aztecs, whose duty it was to cut open the breasts of the
human victims and tear out their hearts.

The Indians always delighted in carrying flowers in their solemn processions, crowning themselves
with garlands, and decorating their houses and temples with them; and, while they worshipped
their gods according to the simple rites which tradition says their prophet, Quetzalcoatl,
("Feathered Snake,") appointed, before he left them and embarked in his canoe on the Eastern
ocean, no name could have been more appropriate for their temple. This pleasant custom did
not disappear after the Conquest; and to this day the churches in the Indian districts are
beautiful with their brilliant garlands and nosegays, and are as emphatically "houses of flowers"
as were the temples in ages long past.

Since writing the above notice of the Pyramid of Xochicalco, I have come upon a new piece of
evidence, which, if it may be depended on, proves more about the history of this remarkable
monument than all the rest put together. Dupaix made a drawing of the ruins at Xochicalco in
1805, which is to be found in Lord Kingsborough's 'Antiquities of Mexico,' and among the sculptures
of the upper tier of blocks is represented a reed, with its leaves set in a square frame, with
three small circles underneath; the whole forming, in the most unmistakable way, the sign 3
Acatl (3 Cane) of the Mexican Astronomical Calendar.

Now it must be admitted that Dupaix's drawing of these ruins is most grossly incorrect; but
still no amount of mere carelessness in an artist will justify us in supposing him to have
invented and put in out of his own head a design so entirely sui generis as this. It does not
even follow that the drawing is wrong because the sign may not be found there now; for it was
in an upper tier, and no doubt many stones have been removed since 1805, for building-purposes.

If the existence of the sign 3 Acatl on the pyramid may be considered as certain, it will fit
in perfectly with the accounts of the Mexican historians, who state that Xochicalco was built
by a king of the Toltec race, and also that the Aztecs adopted the astronomical calendars of
years and days in use among the Toltecs.

It was afternoon when we left Xochicalco and rode on over a gently undulating country, crossing
streams here and there, and had our breakfast at Miacatlán under a shed in front of the village
shop, where all the activity of the little Indian town seemed to be concentrated. By the road-side
were beautiful tamarind-trees with their dark green foliage, and the mamei-tree as large as
a fine English horse-chestnut, and not unlike it at a distance. On the branches were hanging
the great mameis, just like the inside of cocoa-nuts when the inner shell has been cracked
off. It appeared that Nature was not acquainted with M. De La Fontaine's works, or she would
probably have got a hint from the fable of the acorn and the pumpkin, and not have hung mameis
and cocoa-nuts at such a dangerous height.

CHAPTER VIII.

COCOYOTLA. CACAHUAMILPÁN. CHALMA. OCULAN. TENANCINGO. TOLUCA.

A little before dark we came to the hacienda of Santa Rosita de Cocoyotla, another sugar-plantation
which was to be our head-quarters for some days to come. We presented our letter of introduction
from the owner of the estate, and the two administradors received us with open arms. We were
conducted into the strangers' sleeping-room, a long barrack-like apartment with stone walls
and a stone floor that seemed refreshingly dark and cool; we could look out through its barred
windows into the garden, where a rapid little stream of water running along the channel just
outside made a pleasant gurgling sound. Appearances were delusive, however, and it was only
the change from the outside that made us feel the inside cool and pleasant. For days our clothes
clung to us as if we had been drowned, and the pocket-handkerchiefs with which we mopped our
faces had to be hung on chair-backs to dry. Except in the early morning, there was no coolness
in that sweltering place.

In one corner of our room I discerned a brown toad of monstrous size squatting in great comfort
on the damp flags. He was as big as a trussed chicken, and looked something like one in the
twilight. We pointed him out to the administrador, who brought in two fierce watchdogs, but
the toad set up his back and spirted his acrid liquor, and the dogs could not be got to go
near him. We stirred him up with a bamboo and drove him into the garden, but he left his portrait
painted in slime upon our floor.

The Indian choir chanted the Oración as we had heard it the night before at Temisco, and then
came the calling over of the raya. After that we walked about the place, and sat talking in
the open corridor. Owners of estates, and indeed all white folks living in this part of the
country were beginning to feel very anxious about their position, and not without reason. Ordinary
political events excite but little interest in these Indian districts, and so trifling a matter
as a revolution and a change of people in power does not affect them perceptibly. The Indians
are absolutely free, and have their votes and their civil privileges like any other citizens.
All that the owners of the plantations ask of them is to work for high wages, and hitherto
they have done this, but for years it has been becoming more and more difficult to get them
to work. All they do with the money when they get it, is to spend it in drinking and gambling,
if they are of an extravagant turn of mind; or to bury it in some out-of-the-way place, if
they are given to saving. If they were whites or half-caste Mexicans they would spend their
money upon fine clothes and horses, but the Indian keeps to the white cotton dress of his fathers,
and is never seen on horseback. Now this being the case, it does not seem unreasonable that
they should not much care about working hard for money that is of so little use to them when
they have got it, and that they should prefer living in their little huts walled with canes
and thatched with palm-leaves, and cultivating the little patch of garden-ground that lies
round it--which will produce enough fruit and vegetables for their own subsistence, and more
besides, which they can sell for clothes and tobacco. A day or two of this pleasant easy work
at their own ground will provide this, and they do not see why they should labour as hired
servants to get more. This is bad enough, think the hacendados, but there is worse behind.
The Indians have been of late years becoming gradually aware that the government of the country
is quite rotten and powerless, and that in their own districts at least, the power is very
much in their own hands, for the few scattered whites could offer but slight resistance. The
doctrine of "America for the Americans" is rapidly spreading among them, and active emissaries
are going about reminding them that the Spaniards only got their lands by the right of the
strongest, and that now is the time for them to reassert their rights.

The name of Alvarez is circulated among them, as the man who is to lead them in the coming
struggle--Alvarez the mulatto general, whose hideous portrait is in every print-shop in Mexico.
He was President before Comonfort, and is now established with his Indian regiments in the
hot pestilential regions of the Pacific coast.

The undisguised contempt with which the Indians have been treated for ages by the whites and
the mestizos has not been without its effect. The revolution, and the abolition of all legal
distinctions of caste still left the Indians mere senseless unreasoning creatures in the eyes
of the whiter races; and, if the original race once get the upper hand, it will go hard with
the whites and their estates in these parts. Only a day or two before we came down from Mexico,
the government had endeavoured to quarter some troops in one of the little Indian towns which
we passed through on our way from Temisco. But the inhabitants saluted them with volleys of
stones from the church-steeple and the house-tops, and they had to retreat most ignominiously
into their old quarters among "reasonable people."

I have put down our notions on the "Indian Question," just as they presented themselves to
us at the time. The dismal forebodings of the planters seem to have been fulfilled to some
extent at least, for we heard, not long after our return to Europe, that the Indians had plundered
and set fire to numbers of the haciendas of the south country, and that our friends the administradors
of Cocoyotla had escaped with their lives. The hacienda itself, if our information is correct,
which I can hardly doubt, is now a blackened deserted ruin.

At supper appeared two more guests besides ourselves, apparently traders carrying goods to
sell at the villages and haciendas on the road. In such places the hacienda offers its hospitality
to all travellers, and there was room in our caravanserai for yet more visitors if they had
come. Our beds were like those in general use in the tropics, where mattresses would be unendurable,
and even the pillows become a nuisance. The frame of the bed has a piece of coarse cloth stretched
tightly over it; a sheet is laid upon this, and another sheet covers the sleeper. This compromise
between a bed and a hammock answers the purpose better than anything else, and admits of some
circulation of air, especially when you have kicked off the sheet and lie fully exposed to
the air and the mosquitos.

I cannot say that it is pleasant to wake an hour or two after going to bed, with your exact
profile depicted in a wet patch on the pillow; nor is it agreeable to become conscious at the
same time of an intolerable itching, and to find, on lighting a candle, that an army of small
ants are walking over you, and biting furiously. These were my experiences during my first
night at Cocoyotla; and I finished the night, lying half-dressed on my bed, with the ends of
my trousers-legs tied close with handkerchiefs to keep the creatures out. But when we got into
our saddles in the early morning, we forgot all these little miseries, and started merrily
on our expedition to the great stalactitic cave of Cacahuamilpán.

Our day's journey had two objects; one was to see the cave, and the other to visit the village
close by,--one of the genuine unmixed Indian communities, where even the Alcalde and the Cura,
the temporal and spiritual heads of the society, are both of pure Indian blood, and white influence
has never been much felt.

A ride of two or three hours from the hacienda brought us into a mountainous district, and
there we found the village of Cacahuamilpán on the slope of a hill. In the midst of neat trim
gardens stood the little white church, and the ranches of the inhabitants, cottages of one
room, with walls of canes which one can see through in all directions, and roofs of thatch,
with the ground smoothed and trodden hard for a floor. Everything seemed clean and prosperous,
and there was a bright sunny look about the whole place; but to Englishmen, accustomed to the
innumerable appliances of civilized life, it seems surprising how very few and simple are the
wants of these people. The inventory of their whole possessions will only occupy a few lines.
The metate for grinding or rubbing down the maize to be patted out into tortillas, a few calabashes
for bottles, and pieces of calabashes for bowls and cups, prettily ornamented and painted,
and hanging on pegs round the walls. A few palm-leaf mats (petates) to sleep upon, some pots
of thin unglazed earthenware for the cooking, which is done over a wood-fire in the middle
of the floor. A chimney is not necessary in houses which are like the Irishman's coat, consisting
principally of holes. A wooden box, somewhere, contains such of the clothes of the family as
are not in wear. There is really hardly anything I can think of to add to this catalogue, except
the agricultural implements, which consist of a wooden spade, a hoe, some sharp stakes to make
the drills with, and the machete--which is an iron bill-hook, and serves for pruning, woodcutting,
and now and then for less peaceful purposes. Sometimes one sees women weaving cotton-cloth,
or manta, as it is called, in a loom of the simplest possible construction; or sitting at their
doors in groups, spinning cotton-thread with the malacates, and apparently finding as much
material for gossip here as elsewhere.

The Mexicans spun and wove their cotton-cloth just in this way before the Conquest, and malacates
of baked clay are found in great numbers in the neighbourhood of the old Mexican cities. They
are simple, like very large button-moulds, and a thin wooden skewer stuck in the hole in the
middle makes them ready for use. Such spindles were used by the lake-men of Switzerland, but
the earthen heads were not quite the same in shape, being like balls pierced with a hole, as
are those at present used in Mexico.

The Indians here had not the dull sullen look we saw among those who inhabit the colder regions;
and, though belonging to the same race, they were better formed and had a much freer bearing
than their less fortunate countrymen of the colder districts.

Our business in the village was to get guides for the cavern. While some men were gone to look
for the Alcalde, we walked about the village, and finally encamped under a tree. One of our
men had got us a bag full of fruit,--limes, zapotes, and nisperos, which last are a large kind
of medlar, besides a number of other kinds of fruit, which we ate without knowing what they
were. Though rather insipid, the limes are deliciously refreshing in this thirsty country;
and they do no harm, however enormously one may indulge in them. The whole neighbourhood abounds
in fruit, and its name Cacahuamilpán means "the plantation of cacahuate nuts."

It soon became evident that the Alcalde was keeping us waiting as a matter of dignity, and
to show that, though the white men might be held in great estimation elsewhere, they did not
think so much of them in this free and independent village. At last a man came to summon us
to a solemn audience. In a hut of canes, the Alcalde, a little lame Indian, was sitting on
a mat spread on the ground in the middle, with his escribano or secretary at his left hand.
Other Indians were standing outside at the door. The little man scarcely condescended to take
any notice of us when we saluted him, but sat bolt upright, positively bursting with suppressed
dignity, and the escribano inquired in a loud voice what our business was. We told him we wanted
guides to the cave, which he knew as well as we did; but instead of answering, he began to
talk to the Alcalde. We quite appreciated the pleasure it must have been to the two functionaries
to show off before us and their assembled countrymen, who were looking on at the proceedings
with great respect; and we had not minded affording them this cheap satisfaction; but at last
the joke seemed to be getting stale, so we proceeded some to sit and some to lie down at full
length, and to go on eating limes in the presence of the August company. Thereupon they informed
us what would be the cost of guides and candles, and we eventually made a bargain with them
and started on foot.

On looking at the map of the State of Mexico, there is to be seen a river which stops suddenly
on reaching the mountains of Cacahuamilpán, and begins again on the other side, having found
a passage for itself through caves in the mountain for six or seven miles. Not far from the
place where this river flows out of the side of the hill, is a path which leads to the entrance
of the cave. A long downward slope brought us into the first great vaulted chamber, perhaps
a quarter of a mile long and eighty feet high; then a long scramble through a narrow passage,
and another hall still grander than the first. At the end of this hall is another passage leading
on into another chamber. Beyond this we did not go. As it was, we must have walked between
one and two miles into the cavern, but people have explored it to twice this distance, always
finding a repetition of the same arrangement, great vaulted chambers alternating with long
passages almost choked by fallen rocks. In one of the passages, I think the last we came to,
the roaring of the river in its subterranean bed was distinctly audible below us.

Excepting the great cave of Kentucky, I believe there is no stalactitic cavern known so vast
and beautiful as this. The appearance of the largest hall was wonderful when some twenty of
our Indian guides stationed themselves on pinnacles of stalagmite, each one holding up a blazing
torch, while two more climbed upon a great mass at one end called the altar, and burnt Bengal
lights there; the rest stood at the other extremity of the cave sending up rockets in rapid
succession into the vaulted roof, and making the millions of grotesque incrustations glitter
as if they had been masses of diamonds: All the quaint shapes that are found in such caverns
were to be seen here on the grandest scale, columns, arched roof, organ-pipes, trees, altars,
and squatting monsters ranged in long lines like idols in a temple. There may very well be
some truth in the notion that the origin of Gothic architecture was in stalactites of a limestone
cavern, so numerous and perfect are the long slender columns crowned with pointed Gothic arches.

Our procession through the cave was a picturesque one. We carried long wax altar-candles and
our guides huge torches made of threads of aloe-fibre soaked in resin and wrapped round with
cloth, in appearance and texture exactly like the legs and arms of mummies. As we went, the
Indians sang Mexican songs to strange, monotonous, plaintive tunes, or raced about into dark
corners shouting with laughter. They talked about adventures in the cave, to them of course
the great phenomenon of the whole world; but it did not seem, as far as we could hear, that
they associated with it any recollections of the old Aztec divinities and the mystic rites
performed in their honour.

No fossil bones have been found in the cavern, nor human remains except in one of the passages
far within, where a little wooden cross still marks the spot where the skeleton of an Indian
was found. Whether he went alone for mere curiosity to explore the cave, or, what is more likely,
with an idea of finding treasure, is not known; nothing is certain but that his candle was
burnt out while he was still far from the entrance, and that he died there. I said no fossil
remains had been found, but the level floors of the great halls are continually being raised
by fresh layers of stalagmite from the water dropping from the roof, and no one knows what
may lie under them. These floors are in many places covered with little loose concretions like
marbles, and these concretions in the course of time are imbedded in the horizontal layers
of the same material.

As we left the entrance hall and began to ascend the sloping passage that leads to daylight,
we saw an optical appearance which, had we not seen it with our own eyes, we could never have
believed to be a natural effect of light and shade. To us, still far down in the cave, the
entrance was only illuminated by reflected light; but as the Indians reached it, the direct
rays of sunlight fell upon them, and their white dresses shone with an intense phosphoric light,
as though they had been self-luminous. It is just such an effect that is wanting in our pictures
of the Transfiguration, but I fear it is as impossible to paint it upon canvas as to describe
it in words.

Next morning our friend Don Guillermo said good-bye to us, and started to return post-haste
to his affairs in the capital. We stayed a few days longer at Cocoyotla, never tiring of the
beautiful garden with its groves of orange-trees and cocoanut-palms, and the river which, running
through it, joins the stream that we heard rushing along in the cavern, to flow down into the
Pacific.

On Sunday morning the priest arrived on an ambling mule, the favourite clerical animal. They
say it is impossible to ride a mule unless you are either an arriero or a priest. Not that
it is by any means necessary, however, that he should ride a mule. I shall not soon forget
the jaunty young monk we saw at Tezcuco, just setting out for a country festival, mounted on
a splendid little horse, with his frock tucked up, and a pair of hairy goat-skin chaparreros
underneath, a broad Mexican hat, a pair of monstrous silver spurs, and a very large cigar in
his mouth. The girls came out of the cottage doors to look at him, as he made the fiery little
beast curvet and prance along the road; and he was evidently not insensible to the looks of
admiration of these young ladies, as they muffled up their faces in their blue rebozos and
looked at him through the narrow opening.

Nearly two hundred Indians crowded into the church to mass, and went through the service with
evident devotion. There are no more sincere Catholics in the world than the Indians, though,
as I have said, they are apt to keep up some of their old rites in holes and corners. The administradors
did not trouble themselves to attend mass, but went on posting up their books just outside
the church-door; in this, as in a great many other little matters, showing their contempt for
the brown men, and adding something every day to the feeling of dislike they are regarded with.

We speak of the Indians still keeping up their ancient superstitious rites in secret, as we
often heard it said so in Mexico, though we ourselves never saw anything of it. The Abbé Clavigero,
who wrote in the last century, declares the charge to be untrue, except perhaps in a few isolated
cases. "The few examples of idolatry," he says, "which can be produced are partly excusable;
since it is not to be wondered at that rude uncultured men should not be able to distinguish
the idolatrous worship of a rough figure of wood or stone from that which is rightly paid to
the holy images." (There are people who would quite agree with the good Abbé that the distinction
is rather a difficult one to make.) "But how often has prejudice against them declared things
to be idols which were really images of the saints, though shapeless ones! In 1754 I saw some
images found in a cave, which were thought to be idols; but I had no doubt that they were figures
representing the mystery of the Holy Nativity."

A good illustration of the wholesale way in which the early Catholic missionaries went about
the work of conversion is given in a remark of Clavigero's. There is one part of the order
of baptism which proceeds thus: "Then the Priest, wetting his right thumb with spittle from
his mouth, and touching therewith in the form of a cross the right ear of the person to be
baptized, &c." The Mexican missionaries, it seems, had to leave out this ceremony, from sheer
inability to provide enough of the requisite material for their crowds of converts.

After mass we rode out to a mound that had attracted our attention a day or two before, and
which proved to be a fort or temple, or probably both combined. There were no remains to be
found there except the usual fragments of pottery and obsidian. Then we returned to the hacienda
to say good-bye to our friends there, before starting on our journey back to Mexico. All the
population were hard at work amusing themselves, and the shop was doing a roaring trade in
glasses of aguardiente. The Indian who had been our guide for some days past had opened a Monté
bank with the dollars we had given him, and was sitting on the ground solemnly dealing cards
one by one from the bottom of a dirty pack, a crowd of gamblers standing or sitting in a semicircle
before him, silently watching the cards and keeping a vigilant eye upon their stakes which
lay on the ground before the banker. Other parties were busy at the same game in other parts
of the open space before the shop, which served as the great square for the colony.

Under the arcades in front of the shop a fandango was going on, though it was quite early in
the afternoon. A man and a woman stood facing each other, an old man tinkled a guitar, producing
a strange, endless, monotonous tune, and the two dancers stamped with their feet, and moved
their arms and bodies about in time to the music, throwing themselves into affected and voluptuous
attitudes which evidently met with the approval of the bystanders, though to us, who did not
see with Indian eyes, they seemed anything but beautiful. When the danseuse had tired out one
partner, another took his place. An admiring crowd stood round or sat on the stone benches,
smoking cigarettes, and looking on gravely and silently, with evident enjoyment. Just as we
saw it, it would go on probably through half the night, one couple, or perhaps two, keeping
it up constantly, the rest looking on and refreshing themselves from time to time with raw
spirits. Though inferior to the Eastern dancing, it resembled it most strikingly, my companion
said. It has little to do with the really beautiful and artistic dancing of Old Spain, but
seems to be the same that the people delighted in long before they ever saw a white man. Montezuma's
palace contained a perfect colony of professional dancers, whose sole business was to entertain
him with their performances, which only resembled those of the Old World because human nature
is similar everywhere, and the same wants and instincts often find their development in the
same way among nations totally separated from each other.

We left the natives to their amusement, and started on our twenty miles ride. By the time the
evening had fairly begun to close in upon us, we crossed the crest of a hill and had a dim
view of a valley below us, but there were no signs of Chalma or its convent. We let our horses
find their way as well as they could along the rocky path, and got down into the valley. A
light behind us made us turn round, and we saw a grand sight. The coarse grass on a large hill
further down the valley had been set fire to, and a broad band of flame stretched right across
the base of the hill, and was slowly moving upwards towards its top, throwing a lurid glare
over the surrounding country, and upon the clouds of smoke that were rising from the flames.
Every now and then we turned to watch the line of fire as it rose higher and higher, till at
last it closed in together at the summit with one final blaze, and left us in the darkness.
We dismounted and stumbled along, leading our horses down the precipitous sides of the deep
ravines that run into the valley, mounting again to cross the streams at the bottom, and clambering
up on the other side to the level of the road. At last a turn in the valley showed lights just
before us, and we entered the village of Chalma, which was illuminated with flaring oil-lamps
in the streets, where men were hard at work setting up stalls and booths of planks. It seemed
there was to be a fair next day.

