IN THE SOUTH SEAS

PART 1:  THE MARQUESAS

CHAPTER I--AN ISLAND LANDFALL

For nearly ten years my health had been declining; and for some while before I set forth upon
my voyage, I believed I was come to the afterpiece of life, and had only the nurse and undertaker
to expect.  It was suggested that I should try the South Seas; and I was not unwilling to visit
like a ghost, and be carried like a bale, among scenes that had attracted me in youth and health.
I chartered accordingly Dr. Merrit's schooner yacht, the Casco, seventy-four tons register;
sailed from San Francisco towards the end of June 1888, visited the eastern islands, and was
left early the next year at Honolulu.  Hence, lacking courage to return to my old life of the
house and sick-room, I set forth to leeward in a trading schooner, the Equator, of a little
over seventy tons, spent four months among the atolls (low coral islands) of the Gilbert group,
and reached Samoa towards the close of '89.  By that time gratitude and habit were beginning
to attach me to the islands; I had gained a competency of strength; I had made friends; I had
learned new interests; the time of my voyages had passed like days in fairyland; and I decided
to remain.  I began to prepare these pages at sea, on a third cruise, in the trading steamer
Janet Nicoll.  If more days are granted me, they shall be passed where I have found life most
pleasant and man most interesting; the axes of my black boys are already clearing the foundations
of my future house; and I must learn to address readers from the uttermost parts of the sea.

That I should thus have reversed the verdict of Lord Tennyson's hero is less eccentric than
appears.  Few men who come to the islands leave them; they grow grey where they alighted; the
palm shades and the trade-wind fans them till they die, perhaps cherishing to the last the
fancy of a visit home, which is rarely made, more rarely enjoyed, and yet more rarely repeated.
No part of the world exerts the same attractive power upon the visitor, and the task before
me is to communicate to fireside travellers some sense of its seduction, and to describe the
life, at sea and ashore, of many hundred thousand persons, some of our own blood and language,
all our contemporaries, and yet as remote in thought and habit as Rob Roy or Barbarossa, the
Apostles or the Caesars.

The first experience can never be repeated.  The first love, the first sunrise, the first South
Sea island, are memories apart and touched a virginity of sense.  On the 28th of July 1888
the moon was an hour down by four in the morning.  In the east a radiating centre of brightness
told of the day; and beneath, on the skyline, the morning bank was already building, black
as ink.  We have all read of the swiftness of the day's coming and departure in low latitudes;
it is a point on which the scientific and sentimental tourist are at one, and has inspired
some tasteful poetry.  The period certainly varies with the season; but here is one case exactly
noted.  Although the dawn was thus preparing by four, the sun was not up till six; and it was
half-past five before we could distinguish our expected islands from the clouds on the horizon.
Eight degrees south, and the day two hours a-coming.  The interval was passed on deck in the
silence of expectation, the customary thrill of landfall heightened by the strangeness of the
shores that we were then approaching.  Slowly they took shape in the attenuating darkness.
Ua-huna, piling up to a truncated summit, appeared the first upon the starboard bow; almost
abeam arose our destination, Nuka-hiva, whelmed in cloud; and betwixt and to the southward,
the first rays of the sun displayed the needles of Ua- pu.  These pricked about the line of
the horizon; like the pinnacles of some ornate and monstrous church, they stood there, in the
sparkling brightness of the morning, the fit signboard of a world of wonders.  The land heaved
up in peaks and rising vales; it fell in cliffs and buttresses; its colour ran through fifty
modulations in a scale of pearl and rose and olive; and it was crowned above by opalescent
clouds.  The suffusion of vague hues deceived the eye; the shadows of clouds were confounded
with the articulations of the mountains; and the isle and its unsubstantial canopy rose and
shimmered before us like a single mass.  There was no beacon, no smoke of towns to be expected,
no plying pilot. Somewhere, in that pale phantasmagoria of cliff and cloud, our haven lay concealed;
and somewhere to the east of it--the only sea- mark given--a certain headland, known indifferently
as Cape Adam and Eve, or Cape Jack and Jane, and distinguished by two colossal figures, the
gross statuary of nature.  These we were to find; for these we craned and stared, focused glasses,
and wrangled over charts; and the sun was overhead and the land close ahead before we found
them.  To a ship approaching, like the Casco, from the north, they proved indeed the least
conspicuous features of a striking coast; the surf flying high above its base; strange, austere,
and feathered mountains rising behind; and Jack and Jane, or Adam and Eve, impending like a
pair of warts above the breakers.

Thence we bore away along shore.  On our port beam we might hear the explosions of the surf;
a few birds flew fishing under the prow; there was no other sound or mark of life, whether
of man or beast, in all that quarter of the island.  Winged by her own impetus and the dying
breeze, the Casco skimmed under cliffs, opened out a cove, showed us a beach and some green
trees, and flitted by again, bowing to the swell.  The trees, from our distance, might have
been hazel; the beach might have been in Europe; the mountain forms behind modelled in little
from the Alps, and the forest which clustered on their ramparts a growth no more considerable
than our Scottish heath.  Again the cliff yawned, but now with a deeper entry; and the Casco,
hauling her wind, began to slide into the bay of Anaho.  The cocoa-palm, that giraffe of vegetables,
so graceful, so ungainly, to the European eye so foreign, was to be seen crowding on the beach,
and climbing and fringing the steep sides of mountains.  Rude and bare hills embraced the inlet
upon either hand; it was enclosed to the landward by a bulk of shattered mountains.  In every
crevice of that barrier the forest harboured, roosting and nestling there like birds about
a ruin; and far above, it greened and roughened the razor edges of the summit.

Under the eastern shore, our schooner, now bereft of any breeze, continued to creep in:  the
smart creature, when once under way, appearing motive in herself.  From close aboard arose
the bleating of young lambs; a bird sang in the hillside; the scent of the land and of a hundred
fruits or flowers flowed forth to meet us; and, presently, a house or two appeared, standing
high upon the ankles of the hills, and one of these surrounded with what seemed a garden. 
These conspicuous habitations, that patch of culture, had we but known it, were a mark of the
passage of whites; and we might have approached a hundred islands and not found their parallel.
It was longer ere we spied the native village, standing (in the universal fashion) close upon
a curve of beach, close under a grove of palms; the sea in front growling and whitening on
a concave arc of reef.  For the cocoa-tree and the island man are both lovers and neighbours
of the surf.  'The coral waxes, the palm grows, but man departs,' says the sad Tahitian proverb;
but they are all three, so long as they endure, co-haunters of the beach.  The mark of anchorage
was a blow-hole in the rocks, near the south-easterly corner of the bay.  Punctually to our
use, the blow-hole spouted; the schooner turned upon her heel; the anchor plunged.  It was
a small sound, a great event; my soul went down with these moorings whence no windlass may
extract nor any diver fish it up; and I, and some part of my ship's company, were from that
hour the bondslaves of the isles of Vivien.  'Captain, is it permitted to come on board?' were
the first words we heard among the islands.  There was no word of welcome; no show of civility;
no hand extended save that of the chief and Mr. Regler.  As we still continued to refuse the
proffered articles, complaint ran high and rude; and one, the jester of the party, railed upon
our meanness amid jeering laughter.  Amongst other angry pleasantries--'Here is a mighty fine
ship,' said he, 'to have no money on board!'  I own I was inspired with sensible repugnance;
even with alarm.  The ship was manifestly in their power; we had women on board; I knew nothing
of my guests beyond the fact that they were cannibals; the Directory (my only guide) was full
of timid cautions; and as for the trader, whose presence might else have reassured me, were
not whites in the Pacific the usual instigators and accomplices of native outrage?  When he
reads this confession, our kind friend, Mr. Regler, can afford to smile.

Later in the day, as I sat writing up my journal, the cabin was filled from end to end with
Marquesans:  three brown-skinned generations, squatted cross-legged upon the floor, and regarding
me in silence with embarrassing eyes.  The eyes of all Polynesians are large, luminous, and
melting; they are like the eyes of animals and some Italians.  A kind of despair came over
me, to sit there helpless under all these staring orbs, and be thus blocked in a corner of
my cabin by this speechless crowd:  and a kind of rage to think they were beyond the reach
of articulate communication, like furred animals, or folk born deaf, or the dwellers of some
alien planet.

To cross the Channel is, for a boy of twelve, to change heavens; to cross the Atlantic, for
a man of twenty-four, is hardly to modify his diet.  But I was now escaped out of the shadow
of the Roman empire, under whose toppling monuments we were all cradled, whose laws and letters
are on every hand of us, constraining and preventing.  I was now to see what men might be whose
fathers had never studied Virgil, had never been conquered by Caesar, and never been ruled
by the wisdom of Gaius or Papinian.  By the same step I had journeyed forth out of that comfortable
zone of kindred languages, where the curse of Babel is so easy to be remedied; and my new fellow-creatures
sat before me dumb like images.  Methought, in my travels, all human relation was to be excluded;
and when I returned home (for in those days I still projected my return) I should have but
dipped into a picture-book without a text.  Nay, and I even questioned if my travels should
be much prolonged; perhaps they were destined to a speedy end; perhaps my subsequent friend,
Kauanui, whom I remarked there, sitting silent with the rest, for a man of some authority,
might leap from his hams with an ear-splitting signal, the ship be carried at a rush, and the
ship's company butchered for the table.

There could be nothing more natural than these apprehensions, nor anything more groundless.
In my experience of the islands, I had never again so menacing a reception; were I to meet
with such to- day, I should be more alarmed and tenfold more surprised.  The majority of Polynesians
are easy folk to get in touch with, frank, fond of notice, greedy of the least affection, like
amiable, fawning dogs; and even with the Marquesans, so recently and so imperfectly redeemed
from a blood-boltered barbarism, all were to become our intimates, and one, at least, was to
mourn sincerely our departure.

CHAPTER II--MAKING FRIENDS

The impediment of tongues was one that I particularly over- estimated.  The languages of Polynesia
are easy to smatter, though hard to speak with elegance.  And they are extremely similar, so
that a person who has a tincture of one or two may risk, not without hope, an attempt upon
the others.

And again, not only is Polynesian easy to smatter, but interpreters abound.  Missionaries,
traders, and broken white folk living on the bounty of the natives, are to be found in almost
every isle and hamlet; and even where these are unserviceable, the natives themselves have
often scraped up a little English, and in the French zone (though far less commonly) a little
French-English, or an efficient pidgin, what is called to the westward 'Beach-la-Mar,' comes
easy to the Polynesian; it is now taught, besides, in the schools of Hawaii; and from the multiplicity
of British ships, and the nearness of the States on the one hand and the colonies on the other,
it may be called, and will almost certainly become, the tongue of the Pacific.  I will instance
a few examples.  I met in Majuro a Marshall Island boy who spoke excellent English; this he
had learned in the German firm in Jaluit, yet did not speak one word of German.  I heard from
a gendarme who had taught school in Rapa-iti that while the children had the utmost difficulty
or reluctance to learn French, they picked up English on the wayside, and as if by accident.
On one of the most out-of-the-way atolls in the Carolines, my friend Mr. Benjamin Hird was
amazed to find the lads playing cricket on the beach and talking English; and it was in English
that the crew of the Janet Nicoll, a set of black boys from different Melanesian islands, communicated
with other natives throughout the cruise, transmitted orders, and sometimes jested together
on the fore-hatch.  But what struck me perhaps most of all was a word I heard on the verandah
of the Tribunal at Noumea.  A case had just been heard--a trial for infanticide against an
ape- like native woman; and the audience were smoking cigarettes as they awaited the verdict.
An anxious, amiable French lady, not far from tears, was eager for acquittal, and declared
she would engage the prisoner to be her children's nurse.  The bystanders exclaimed at the
proposal; the woman was a savage, said they, and spoke no language.  'Mais, vous savez,' objected
the fair sentimentalist; 'ils apprennent si vite l'anglais!'

But to be able to speak to people is not all.  And in the first stage of my relations with
natives I was helped by two things.  To begin with, I was the show-man of the Casco.  She,
her fine lines, tall spars, and snowy decks, the crimson fittings of the saloon, and the white,
the gilt, and the repeating mirrors of the tiny cabin, brought us a hundred visitors.  The
men fathomed out her dimensions with their arms, as their fathers fathomed out the ships of
Cook; the women declared the cabins more lovely than a church; bouncing Junos were never weary
of sitting in the chairs and contemplating in the glass their own bland images; and I have
seen one lady strip up her dress, and, with cries of wonder and delight, rub herself bare-breeched
upon the velvet cushions.  Biscuit, jam, and syrup was the entertainment; and, as in European
parlours, the photograph album went the round.  This sober gallery, their everyday costumes
and physiognomies, had become transformed, in three weeks' sailing, into things wonderful and
rich and foreign; alien faces, barbaric dresses, they were now beheld and fingered, in the
swerving cabin, with innocent excitement and surprise.  Her Majesty was often recognised, and
I have seen French subjects kiss her photograph; Captain Speedy--in an Abyssinian war-dress,
supposed to be the uniform of the British army--met with much acceptance; and the effigies
of Mr. Andrew Lang were admired in the Marquesas.  There is the place for him to go when he
shall be weary of Middlesex and Homer.

It was perhaps yet more important that I had enjoyed in my youth some knowledge of our Scots
folk of the Highlands and the Islands. Not much beyond a century has passed since these were
in the same convulsive and transitionary state as the Marquesans of to-day.  In both cases
an alien authority enforced, the clans disarmed, the chiefs deposed, new customs introduced,
and chiefly that fashion of regarding money as the means and object of existence.  The commercial
age, in each, succeeding at a bound to an age of war abroad and patriarchal communism at home.
In one the cherished practice of tattooing, in the other a cherished costume, proscribed. 
In each a main luxury cut off:  beef, driven under cloud of night from Lowland pastures, denied
to the meat-loving Highlander; long-pig, pirated from the next village, to the man- eating
Kanaka.  The grumbling, the secret ferment, the fears and resentments, the alarms and sudden
councils of Marquesan chiefs, reminded me continually of the days of Lovat and Struan. Hospitality,
tact, natural fine manners, and a touchy punctilio, are common to both races:  common to both
tongues the trick of dropping medial consonants.  Here is a table of two widespread Polynesian
words:-

              House.   Love.

Tahitian      FARE     AROHA

New Zealand   WHARE

Samoan        FALE     TALOFA

Manihiki      FALE     ALOHA

Hawaiian      HALE     ALOHA

Marquesan     HA'E     KAOHA

The elision of medial consonants, so marked in these Marquesan instances, is no less common
both in Gaelic and the Lowland Scots. Stranger still, that prevalent Polynesian sound, the
so-called catch, written with an apostrophe, and often or always the gravestone of a perished
consonant, is to be heard in Scotland to this day.  When a Scot pronounces water, better, or
bottle--wa'er, be'er, or bo'le--the sound is precisely that of the catch; and I think we may
go beyond, and say, that if such a population could be isolated, and this mispronunciation
should become the rule, it might prove the first stage of transition from t to k, which is
the disease of Polynesian languages.  The tendency of the Marquesans, however, is to urge against
consonants, or at least on the very common letter l, a war of mere extermination.  A hiatus
is agreeable to any Polynesian ear; the ear even of the stranger soon grows used to these barbaric
voids; but only in the Marquesan will you find such names as Haaii and Paaaeua, when each individual
vowel must be separately uttered.

These points of similarity between a South Sea people and some of my own folk at home ran much
in my head in the islands; and not only inclined me to view my fresh acquaintances with favour,
but continually modified my judgment.  A polite Englishman comes to-day to the Marquesans and
is amazed to find the men tattooed; polite Italians came not long ago to England and found
our fathers stained with woad; and when I paid the return visit as a little boy, I was highly
diverted with the backwardness of Italy:  so insecure, so much a matter of the day and hour,
is the pre-eminence of race.  It was so that I hit upon a means of communication which I recommend
to travellers.  When I desired any detail of savage custom, or of superstitious belief, I cast
back in the story of my fathers, and fished for what I wanted with some trait of equal barbarism:
Michael Scott, Lord Derwentwater's head, the second-sight, the Water Kelpie,--each of these
I have found to be a killing bait; the black bull's head of Stirling procured me the legend
of Rahero; and what I knew of the Cluny Macphersons, or the Appin Stewarts, enabled me to learn,
and helped me to understand, about the Tevas of Tahiti.  The native was no longer ashamed,
his sense of kinship grew warmer, and his lips were opened.  It is this sense of kinship that
the traveller must rouse and share; or he had better content himself with travels from the
blue bed to the brown.  And the presence of one Cockney titterer will cause a whole party to
walk in clouds of darkness.

The hamlet of Anaho stands on a margin of flat land between the west of the beach and the spring
of the impending mountains.  A grove of palms, perpetually ruffling its green fans, carpets
it (as for a triumph) with fallen branches, and shades it like an arbour. A road runs from
end to end of the covert among beds of flowers, the milliner's shop of the community; and here
and there, in the grateful twilight, in an air filled with a diversity of scents, and still
within hearing of the surf upon the reef, the native houses stand in scattered neighbourhood.
The same word, as we have seen, represents in many tongues of Polynesia, with scarce a shade
of difference, the abode of man.  But although the word be the same, the structure itself continually
varies; and the Marquesan, among the most backward and barbarous of islanders, is yet the most
commodiously lodged.  The grass huts of Hawaii, the birdcage houses of Tahiti, or the open
shed, with the crazy Venetian blinds, of the polite Samoan--none of these can be compared with
the Marquesan paepae-hae, or dwelling platform.  The paepae is an oblong terrace built without
cement or black volcanic stone, from twenty to fifty feet in length, raised from four to eight
feet from the earth, and accessible by a broad stair.  Along the back of this, and coming to
about half its width, runs the open front of the house, like a covered gallery:  the interior
sometimes neat and almost elegant in its bareness, the sleeping space divided off by an endlong
coaming, some bright raiment perhaps hanging from a nail, and a lamp and one of White's sewing-machines
the only marks of civilization.  On the outside, at one end of the terrace, burns the cooking-fire
under a shed; at the other there is perhaps a pen for pigs; the remainder is the evening lounge
and al fresco banquet-hall of the inhabitants.  To some houses water is brought down the mountains
in bamboo pipes, perforated for the sake of sweetness.  With the Highland comparison in my
mind, I was struck to remember the sluttish mounds of turf and stone in which I have sat and
been entertained in the Hebrides and the North Islands.  Two things, I suppose, explain the
contrast.  In Scotland wood is rare, and with materials so rude as turf and stone the very
hope of neatness is excluded.  And in Scotland it is cold.  Shelter and a hearth are needs
so pressing that a man looks not beyond; he is out all day after a bare bellyful, and at night
when he saith, 'Aha, it is warm!' he has not appetite for more.  Or if for something else,
then something higher; a fine school of poetry and song arose in these rough shelters, and
an air like 'Lochaber no more' is an evidence of refinement more convincing, as well as more
imperishable, than a palace.

To one such dwelling platform a considerable troop of relatives and dependants resort.  In
the hour of the dusk, when the fire blazes, and the scent of the cooked breadfruit fills the
air, and perhaps the lamp glints already between the pillars and the house, you shall behold
them silently assemble to this meal, men, women, and children; and the dogs and pigs frisk
together up the terrace stairway, switching rival tails.  The strangers from the ship were
soon equally welcome:  welcome to dip their fingers in the wooden dish, to drink cocoanuts,
to share the circulating pipe, and to hear and hold high debate about the misdeeds of the French,
the Panama Canal, or the geographical position of San Francisco and New Yo'ko.  In a Highland
hamlet, quite out of reach of any tourist, I have met the same plain and dignified hospitality.

I have mentioned two facts--the distasteful behaviour of our earliest visitors, and the case
of the lady who rubbed herself upon the cushions--which would give a very false opinion of
Marquesan manners.  The great majority of Polynesians are excellently mannered; but the Marquesan
stands apart, annoying and attractive, wild, shy, and refined.  If you make him a present he
affects to forget it, and it must be offered him again at his going:  a pretty formality I
have found nowhere else.  A hint will get rid of any one or any number; they are so fiercely
proud and modest; while many of the more lovable but blunter islanders crowd upon a stranger,
and can be no more driven off than flies.  A slight or an insult the Marquesan seems never
to forget.  I was one day talking by the wayside with my friend Hoka, when I perceived his
eyes suddenly to flash and his stature to swell.  A white horseman was coming down the mountain,
and as he passed, and while he paused to exchange salutations with myself, Hoka was still staring
and ruffling like a gamecock.  It was a Corsican who had years before called him cochon sauvage--cocon
chauvage, as Hoka mispronounced it.  With people so nice and so touchy, it was scarce to be
supposed that our company of greenhorns should not blunder into offences.  Hoka, on one of
his visits, fell suddenly in a brooding silence, and presently after left the ship with cold
formality. When he took me back into favour, he adroitly and pointedly explained the nature
of my offence:  I had asked him to sell cocoa- nuts; and in Hoka's view articles of food were
things that a gentleman should give, not sell; or at least that he should not sell to any friend.
On another occasion I gave my boat's crew a luncheon of chocolate and biscuits.  I had sinned,
I could never learn how, against some point of observance; and though I was drily thanked,
my offerings were left upon the beach.  But our worst mistake was a slight we put on Toma,
Hoka's adoptive father, and in his own eyes the rightful chief of Anaho.  In the first place,
we did not call upon him, as perhaps we should, in his fine new European house, the only one
in the hamlet.  In the second, when we came ashore upon a visit to his rival, Taipi-Kikino,
it was Toma whom we saw standing at the head of the beach, a magnificent figure of a man, magnificently
tattooed; and it was of Toma that we asked our question:  'Where is the chief?'  'What chief?'
cried Toma, and turned his back on the blasphemers.  Nor did he forgive us.  Hoka came and
went with us daily; but, alone I believe of all the countryside, neither Toma nor his wife
set foot on board the Casco. The temptation resisted it is hard for a European to compute.
The flying city of Laputa moored for a fortnight in St. James's Park affords but a pale figure
of the Casco anchored before Anaho; for the Londoner has still his change of pleasures, but
the Marquesan passes to his grave through an unbroken uniformity of days.

On the afternoon before it was intended we should sail, a valedictory party came on board:
nine of our particular friends equipped with gifts and dressed as for a festival.  Hoka, the
chief dancer and singer, the greatest dandy of Anaho, and one of the handsomest young fellows
in the world-sullen, showy, dramatic, light as a feather and strong as an ox--it would have
been hard, on that occasion, to recognise, as he sat there stooped and silent, his face heavy
and grey.  It was strange to see the lad so much affected; stranger still to recognise in his
last gift one of the curios we had refused on the first day, and to know our friend, so gaily
dressed, so plainly moved at our departure, for one of the half-naked crew that had besieged
and insulted us on our arrival: strangest of all, perhaps, to find, in that carved handle of
a fan, the last of those curiosities of the first day which had now all been given to us by
their possessors--their chief merchandise, for which they had sought to ransom us as long as
we were strangers, which they pressed on us for nothing as soon as we were friends. The last
visit was not long protracted.  One after another they shook hands and got down into their
canoe; when Hoka turned his back immediately upon the ship, so that we saw his face no more.
Taipi, on the other hand, remained standing and facing us with gracious valedictory gestures;
and when Captain Otis dipped the ensign, the whole party saluted with their hats.  This was
the farewell; the episode of our visit to Anaho was held concluded; and though the Casco remained
nearly forty hours at her moorings, not one returned on board, and I am inclined to think they
avoided appearing on the beach.  This reserve and dignity is the finest trait of the Marquesan.

CHAPTER III--THE MAROON

Of the beauties of Anaho books might be written.  I remember waking about three, to find the
air temperate and scented.  The long swell brimmed into the bay, and seemed to fill it full
and then subside. Gently, deeply, and silently the Casco rolled; only at times a block piped
like a bird.  Oceanward, the heaven was bright with stars and the sea with their reflections.
If I looked to that side, I might have sung with the Hawaiian poet:

Ua maomao ka lani, ua kahaea luna, Ua pipi ka maka o ka hoku. (The heavens were fair, they
stretched above, Many were the eyes of the stars.)

And then I turned shoreward, and high squalls were overhead; the mountains loomed up black;
and I could have fancied I had slipped ten thousand miles away and was anchored in a Highland
loch; that when the day came, it would show pine, and heather, and green fern, and roofs of
turf sending up the smoke of peats; and the alien speech that should next greet my ears must
be Gaelic, not Kanaka.

And day, when it came, brought other sights and thoughts.  I have watched the morning break
in many quarters of the world; it has been certainly one of the chief joys of my existence,
and the dawn that I saw with most emotion shone upon the bay of Anaho.  The mountains abruptly
overhang the port with every variety of surface and of inclination, lawn, and cliff, and forest.
Not one of these but wore its proper tint of saffron, of sulphur, of the clove, and of the
rose.  The lustre was like that of satin; on the lighter hues there seemed to float an efflorescence;
a solemn bloom appeared on the more dark.  The light itself was the ordinary light of morning,
colourless and clean; and on this ground of jewels, pencilled out the least detail of drawing.
Meanwhile, around the hamlet, under the palms, where the blue shadow lingered, the red coals
of cocoa husk and the light trails of smoke betrayed the awakening business of the day; along
the beach men and women, lads and lasses, were returning from the bath in bright raiment, red
and blue and green, such as we delighted to see in the coloured little pictures of our childhood;
and presently the sun had cleared the eastern hill, and the glow of the day was over all.

The glow continued and increased, the business, from the main part, ceased before it had begun.
Twice in the day there was a certain stir of shepherding along the seaward hills.  At times
a canoe went out to fish.  At times a woman or two languidly filled a basket in the cotton
patch.  At times a pipe would sound out of the shadow of a house, ringing the changes on its
three notes, with an effect like Que le jour me dure, repeated endlessly.  Or at times, across
a corner of the bay, two natives might communicate in the Marquesan manner with conventional
whistlings.  All else was sleep and silence.  The surf broke and shone around the shores; a
species of black crane fished in the broken water; the black pigs were continually galloping
by on some affair; but the people might never have awaked, or they might all be dead.

My favourite haunt was opposite the hamlet, where was a landing in a cove under a lianaed cliff.
The beach was lined with palms and a tree called the purao, something between the fig and mulberry
in growth, and bearing a flower like a great yellow poppy with a maroon heart.  In places rocks
encroached upon the sand; the beach would be all submerged; and the surf would bubble warmly
as high as to my knees, and play with cocoa-nut husks as our more homely ocean plays with wreck
and wrack and bottles.  As the reflux drew down, marvels of colour and design streamed between
my feet; which I would grasp at, miss, or seize:  now to find them what they promised, shells
to grace a cabinet or be set in gold upon a lady's finger; now to catch only maya of coloured
sand, pounded fragments and pebbles, that, as soon as they were dry, became as dull and homely
as the flints upon a garden path.  I have toiled at this childish pleasure for hours in the
strong sun, conscious of my incurable ignorance; but too keenly pleased to be ashamed. Meanwhile,
the blackbird (or his tropical understudy) would be fluting in the thickets overhead.

A little further, in the turn of the bay, a streamlet trickled in the bottom of a den, thence
spilling down a stair of rock into the sea.  The draught of air drew down under the foliage
in the very bottom of the den, which was a perfect arbour for coolness.  In front it stood
open on the blue bay and the Casco lying there under her awning and her cheerful colours. 
Overhead was a thatch of puraos, and over these again palms brandished their bright fans, as
I have seen a conjurer make himself a halo out of naked swords. For in this spot, over a neck
of low land at the foot of the mountains, the trade-wind streams into Anaho Bay in a flood
of almost constant volume and velocity, and of a heavenly coolness.

It chanced one day that I was ashore in the cove, with Mrs. Stevenson and the ship's cook.
Except for the Casco lying outside, and a crane or two, and the ever-busy wind and sea, the
face of the world was of a prehistoric emptiness; life appeared to stand stock- still, and
the sense of isolation was profound and refreshing.  On a sudden, the trade-wind, coming in
a gust over the isthmus, struck and scattered the fans of the palms above the den; and, behold!
in two of the tops there sat a native, motionless as an idol and watching us, you would have
said, without a wink.  The next moment the tree closed, and the glimpse was gone.  This discovery
of human presences latent overhead in a place where we had supposed ourselves alone, the immobility
of our tree-top spies, and the thought that perhaps at all hours we were similarly supervised,
struck us with a chill.  Talk languished on the beach.  As for the cook (whose conscience was
not clear), he never afterwards set foot on shore, and twice, when the Casco appeared to be
driving on the rocks, it was amusing to observe that man's alacrity; death, he was persuaded,
awaiting him upon the beach.  It was more than a year later, in the Gilberts, that the explanation
dawned upon myself. The natives were drawing palm-tree wine, a thing forbidden by law; and
when the wind thus suddenly revealed them, they were doubtless more troubled than ourselves.

At the top of the den there dwelt an old, melancholy, grizzled man of the name of Tari (Charlie)
Coffin.  He was a native of Oahu, in the Sandwich Islands; and had gone to sea in his youth
in the American whalers; a circumstance to which he owed his name, his English, his down-east
twang, and the misfortune of his innocent life.  For one captain, sailing out of New Bedford,
carried him to Nuka-hiva and marooned him there among the cannibals.  The motive for this act
was inconceivably small; poor Tari's wages, which were thus economised, would scarce have shook
the credit of the New Bedford owners.  And the act itself was simply murder.  Tari's life must
have hung in the beginning by a hair.  In the grief and terror of that time, it is not unlikely
he went mad, an infirmity to which he was still liable; or perhaps a child may have taken a
fancy to him and ordained him to be spared.  He escaped at least alive, married in the island,
and when I knew him was a widower with a married son and a granddaughter.  But the thought
of Oahu haunted him; its praise was for ever on his lips; he beheld it, looking back, as a
place of ceaseless feasting, song, and dance; and in his dreams I daresay he revisits it with
joy.  I wonder what he would think if he could be carried there indeed, and see the modern
town of Honolulu brisk with traffic, and the palace with its guards, and the great hotel, and
Mr. Berger's band with their uniforms and outlandish instruments; or what he would think to
see the brown faces grown so few and the white so many; and his father's land sold, for planting
sugar, and his father's house quite perished, or perhaps the last of them struck leprous and
immured between the surf and the cliffs on Molokai?  So simply, even in South Sea Islands,
and so sadly, the changes come.

Tari was poor, and poorly lodged.  His house was a wooden frame, run up by Europeans; it was
indeed his official residence, for Tari was the shepherd of the promontory sheep.  I can give
a perfect inventory of its contents:  three kegs, a tin biscuit-box, an iron saucepan, several
cocoa-shell cups, a lantern, and three bottles, probably containing oil; while the clothes
of the family and a few mats were thrown across the open rafters.  Upon my first meeting with
this exile he had conceived for me one of the baseless island friendships, had given me nuts
to drink, and carried me up the den 'to see my house'--the only entertainment that he had to
offer.  He liked the 'Amelican,' he said, and the 'Inglisman,' but the 'Flessman' was his abhorrence;
and he was careful to explain that if he had thought us 'Fless,' we should have had none of
his nuts, and never a sight of his house.  His distaste for the French I can partly understand,
but not at all his toleration of the Anglo- Saxon.  The next day he brought me a pig, and some
days later one of our party going ashore found him in act to bring a second.  We were still
strange to the islands; we were pained by the poor man's generosity, which he could ill afford,
and, by a natural enough but quite unpardonable blunder, we refused the pig.  Had Tari been
a Marquesan we should have seen him no more; being what he was, the most mild, long-suffering,
melancholy man, he took a revenge a hundred times more painful.  Scarce had the canoe with
the nine villagers put off from their farewell before the Casco was boarded from the other
side.  It was Tari; coming thus late because he had no canoe of his own, and had found it hard
to borrow one; coming thus solitary (as indeed we always saw him), because he was a stranger
in the land, and the dreariest of company.  The rest of my family basely fled from the encounter.
I must receive our injured friend alone; and the interview must have lasted hard upon an hour,
for he was loath to tear himself away.  'You go 'way.  I see you no more--no, sir!' he lamented;
and then looking about him with rueful admiration, 'This goodee ship--no, sir!--goodee ship!'
he would exclaim:  the 'no, sir,' thrown out sharply through the nose upon a rising inflection,
an echo from New Bedford and the fallacious whaler.  From these expressions of grief and praise,
he would return continually to the case of the rejected pig.  'I like give present all 'e same
you,' he complained; 'only got pig:  you no take him!'  He was a poor man; he had no choice
of gifts; he had only a pig, he repeated; and I had refused it.  I have rarely been more wretched
than to see him sitting there, so old, so grey, so poor, so hardly fortuned, of so rueful a
countenance, and to appreciate, with growing keenness, the affront which I had so innocently
dealt him; but it was one of those cases in which speech is vain.

Tari's son was smiling and inert; his daughter-in-law, a girl of sixteen, pretty, gentle, and
grave, more intelligent than most Anaho women, and with a fair share of French; his grandchild,
a mite of a creature at the breast.  I went up the den one day when Tari was from home, and
found the son making a cotton sack, and madame suckling mademoiselle.  When I had sat down
with them on the floor, the girl began to question me about England; which I tried to describe,
piling the pan and the cocoa shells one upon another to represent the houses, and explaining,
as best I was able, and by word and gesture, the over-population, the hunger, and the perpetual
toil.  'Pas de cocotiers? pas do popoi?' she asked.  I told her it was too cold, and went through
an elaborate performance, shutting out draughts, and crouching over an imaginary fire, to make
sure she understood.  But she understood right well; remarked it must be bad for the health,
and sat a while gravely reflecting on that picture of unwonted sorrows.  I am sure it roused
her pity, for it struck in her another thought always uppermost in the Marquesan bosom; and
she began with a smiling sadness, and looking on me out of melancholy eyes, to lament the decease
of her own people.  'Ici pas de Kanaques,' said she; and taking the baby from her breast, she
held it out to me with both her hands.  'Tenez--a little baby like this; then dead.  All the
Kanaques die.  Then no more.'  The smile, and this instancing by the girl-mother of her own
tiny flesh and blood, affected me strangely; they spoke of so tranquil a despair.  Meanwhile
the husband smilingly made his sack; and the unconscious babe struggled to reach a pot of raspberry
jam, friendship's offering, which I had just brought up the den; and in a perspective of centuries
I saw their case as ours, death coming in like a tide, and the day already numbered when there
should be no more Beretani, and no more of any race whatever, and (what oddly touched me) no
more literary works and no more readers.

CHAPTER IV--DEATH

The thought of death, I have said, is uppermost in the mind of the Marquesan.  It would be
strange if it were otherwise.  The race is perhaps the handsomest extant.  Six feet is about
the middle height of males; they are strongly muscled, free from fat, swift in action, graceful
in repose; and the women, though fatter and duller, are still comely animals.  To judge by
the eye, there is no race more viable; and yet death reaps them with both hands.  When Bishop
Dordillon first came to Tai-o-hae, he reckoned the inhabitants at many thousands; he was but
newly dead, and in the same bay Stanislao Moanatini counted on his fingers eight residual natives.
Or take the valley of Hapaa, known to readers of Herman Melville under the grotesque misspelling
of Hapar.  There are but two writers who have touched the South Seas with any genius, both
Americans:  Melville and Charles Warren Stoddard; and at the christening of the first and greatest,
some influential fairy must have been neglected:  'He shall be able to see,' 'He shall be able
to tell,' 'He shall be able to charm,' said the friendly godmothers; 'But he shall not be able
to hear,' exclaimed the last. The tribe of Hapaa is said to have numbered some four hundred,
when the small-pox came and reduced them by one-fourth.  Six months later a woman developed
tubercular consumption; the disease spread like a fire about the valley, and in less than a
year two survivors, a man and a woman, fled from that new-created solitude. A similar Adam
and Eve may some day wither among new races, the tragic residue of Britain.  When I first heard
this story the date staggered me; but I am now inclined to think it possible.  Early in the
year of my visit, for example, or late the year before, a first case of phthisis appeared in
a household of seventeen persons, and by the month of August, when the tale was told me, one
soul survived, and that was a boy who had been absent at his schooling. And depopulation works
both ways, the doors of death being set wide open, and the door of birth almost closed.  Thus,
in the half-year ending July 1888 there were twelve deaths and but one birth in the district
of the Hatiheu.  Seven or eight more deaths were to be looked for in the ordinary course; and
M. Aussel, the observant gendarme, knew of but one likely birth.  At this rate it is no matter
of surprise if the population in that part should have declined in forty years from six thousand
to less than four hundred; which are, once more on the authority of M. Aussel, the estimated
figures.  And the rate of decline must have even accelerated towards the end.

A good way to appreciate the depopulation is to go by land from Anaho to Hatiheu on the adjacent
bay.  The road is good travelling, but cruelly steep.  We seemed scarce to have passed the
deserted house which stands highest in Anaho before we were looking dizzily down upon its roof;
the Casco well out in the bay, and rolling for a wager, shrank visibly; and presently through
the gap of Tari's isthmus, Ua-huna was seen to hang cloudlike on the horizon.  Over the summit,
where the wind blew really chill, and whistled in the reed-like grass, and tossed the grassy
fell of the pandanus, we stepped suddenly, as through a door, into the next vale and bay of
Hatiheu.  A bowl of mountains encloses it upon three sides.  On the fourth this rampart has
been bombarded into ruins, runs down to seaward in imminent and shattered crags, and presents
the one practicable breach of the blue bay.  The interior of this vessel is crowded with lovely
and valuable trees,--orange, breadfruit, mummy- apple, cocoa, the island chestnut, and for
weeds, the pine and the banana.  Four perennial streams water and keep it green; and along
the dell, first of one, then of another, of these, the road, for a considerable distance, descends
into this fortunate valley.  The song of the waters and the familiar disarray of boulders gave
us a strong sense of home, which the exotic foliage, the daft-like growth of the pandanus,
the buttressed trunk of the banyan, the black pigs galloping in the bush, and the architecture
of the native houses dissipated ere it could be enjoyed.

The houses on the Hatiheu side begin high up; higher yet, the more melancholy spectacle of
empty paepaes.  When a native habitation is deserted, the superstructure--pandanus thatch,
wattle, unstable tropical timber--speedily rots, and is speedily scattered by the wind.  Only
the stones of the terrace endure; nor can any ruin, cairn, or standing stone, or vitrified
fort present a more stern appearance of antiquity.  We must have passed from six to eight of
these now houseless platforms.  On the main road of the island, where it crosses the valley
of Taipi, Mr. Osbourne tells me they are to be reckoned by the dozen; and as the roads have
been made long posterior to their erection, perhaps to their desertion, and must simply be
regarded as lines drawn at random through the bush, the forest on either hand must be equally
filled with these survivals:  the gravestones of whole families.  Such ruins are tapu in the
strictest sense; no native must approach them; they have become outposts of the kingdom of
the grave.  It might appear a natural and pious custom in the hundreds who are left, the rearguard
of perished thousands, that their feet should leave untrod these hearthstones of their fathers.
I believe, in fact, the custom rests on different and more grim conceptions.  But the house,
the grave, and even the body of the dead, have been always particularly honoured by Marquesans.
Until recently the corpse was sometimes kept in the family and daily oiled and sunned, until,
by gradual and revolting stages, it dried into a kind of mummy. Offerings are still laid upon
the grave.  In Traitor's Bay, Mr. Osbourne saw a man buy a looking-glass to lay upon his son's.
And the sentiment against the desecration of tombs, thoughtlessly ruffled in the laying down
of the new roads, is a chief ingredient in the native hatred for the French.

The Marquesan beholds with dismay the approaching extinction of his race.  The thought of death
sits down with him to meat, and rises with him from his bed; he lives and breathes under a
shadow of mortality awful to support; and he is so inured to the apprehension that he greets
the reality with relief.  He does not even seek to support a disappointment; at an affront,
at a breach of one of his fleeting and communistic love-affairs, he seeks an instant refuge
in the grave.  Hanging is now the fashion.  I heard of three who had hanged themselves in the
west end of Hiva-oa during the first half of 1888; but though this be a common form of suicide
in other parts of the South Seas, I cannot think it will continue popular in the Marquesas.
Far more suitable to Marquesan sentiment is the old form of poisoning with the fruit of the
eva, which offers to the native suicide a cruel but deliberate death, and gives time for those
decencies of the last hour, to which he attaches such remarkable importance.  The coffin can
thus be at hand, the pigs killed, the cry of the mourners sounding already through the house;
and then it is, and not before, that the Marquesan is conscious of achievement, his life all
rounded in, his robes (like Caesar's) adjusted for the final act.  Praise not any man till
he is dead, said the ancients; envy not any man till you hear the mourners, might be the Marquesan
parody.  The coffin, though of late introduction, strangely engages their attention.  It is
to the mature Marquesan what a watch is to the European schoolboy.  For ten years Queen Vaekehu
had dunned the fathers; at last, but the other day, they let her have her will, gave her her
coffin, and the woman's soul is at rest.  I was told a droll instance of the force of this
preoccupation.  The Polynesians are subject to a disease seemingly rather of the will than
of the body.  I was told the Tahitians have a word for it, erimatua, but cannot find it in
my dictionary.  A gendarme, M. Nouveau, has seen men beginning to succumb to this insubstantial
malady, has routed them from their houses, turned them on to do their trick upon the roads,
and in two days has seen them cured.  But this other remedy is more original: a Marquesan,
dying of this discouragement--perhaps I should rather say this acquiescence--has been known,
at the fulfilment of his crowning wish, on the mere sight of that desired hermitage, his coffin--to
revive, recover, shake off the hand of death, and be restored for years to his occupations--carving
tikis (idols), let us say, or braiding old men's beards.  From all this it may be conceived
how easily they meet death when it approaches naturally. I heard one example, grim and picturesque.
In the time of the small-pox in Hapaa, an old man was seized with the disease; he had no thought
of recovery; had his grave dug by a wayside, and lived in it for near a fortnight, eating,
drinking, and smoking with the passers-by, talking mostly of his end, and equally unconcerned
for himself and careless of the friends whom he infected.

This proneness to suicide, and loose seat in life, is not peculiar to the Marquesan.  What
is peculiar is the widespread depression and acceptance of the national end.  Pleasures are
neglected, the dance languishes, the songs are forgotten.  It is true that some, and perhaps
too many, of them are proscribed; but many remain, if there were spirit to support or to revive
them.  At the last feast of the Bastille, Stanislao Moanatini shed tears when he beheld the
inanimate performance of the dancers.  When the people sang for us in Anaho, they must apologise
for the smallness of their repertory. They were only young folk present, they said, and it
was only the old that knew the songs.  The whole body of Marquesan poetry and music was being
suffered to die out with a single dispirited generation.  The full import is apparent only
to one acquainted with other Polynesian races; who knows how the Samoan coins a fresh song
for every trifling incident, or who has heard (on Penrhyn, for instance) a band of little stripling
maids from eight to twelve keep up their minstrelsy for hours upon a stretch, one song following
another without pause.  In like manner, the Marquesan, never industrious, begins now to cease
altogether from production. The exports of the group decline out of all proportion even with
the death-rate of the islanders.  'The coral waxes, the palm grows, and man departs,' says
the Marquesan; and he folds his hands.  And surely this is nature.  Fond as it may appear,
we labour and refrain, not for the rewards of any single life, but with a timid eye upon the
lives and memories of our successors; and where no one is to succeed, of his own family, or
his own tongue, I doubt whether Rothschilds would make money or Cato practise virtue.  It is
natural, also, that a temporary stimulus should sometimes rouse the Marquesan from his lethargy.
Over all the landward shore of Anaho cotton runs like a wild weed; man or woman, whoever comes
to pick it, may earn a dollar in the day; yet when we arrived, the trader's store-house was
entirely empty; and before we left it was near full.  So long as the circus was there, so long
as the Casco was yet anchored in the bay, it behoved every one to make his visit; and to this
end every woman must have a new dress, and every man a shirt and trousers.  Never before, in
Mr. Regler's experience, had they displayed so much activity.

In their despondency there is an element of dread.  The fear of ghosts and of the dark is very
deeply written in the mind of the Polynesian; not least of the Marquesan.  Poor Taipi, the
chief of Anaho, was condemned to ride to Hatiheu on a moonless night.  He borrowed a lantern,
sat a long while nerving himself for the adventure, and when he at last departed, wrung the
Cascos by the hand as for a final separation.  Certain presences, called Vehinehae, frequent
and make terrible the nocturnal roadside; I was told by one they were like so much mist, and
as the traveller walked into them dispersed and dissipated; another described them as being
shaped like men and having eyes like cats; from none could I obtain the smallest clearness
as to what they did, or wherefore they were dreaded.  We may be sure at least they represent
the dead; for the dead, in the minds of the islanders, are all- pervasive.  'When a native
says that he is a man,' writes Dr. Codrington, 'he means that he is a man and not a ghost;
not that he is a man and not a beast.  The intelligent agents of this world are to his mind
the men who are alive, and the ghosts the men who are dead.'  Dr. Codrington speaks of Melanesia;
from what I have learned his words are equally true of the Polynesian.  And yet more.  Among
cannibal Polynesians a dreadful suspicion rests generally on the dead; and the Marquesans,
the greatest cannibals of all, are scarce likely to be free from similar beliefs.  I hazard
the guess that the Vehinehae are the hungry spirits of the dead, continuing their life's business
of the cannibal ambuscade, and lying everywhere unseen, and eager to devour the living. Another
superstition I picked up through the troubled medium of Tari Coffin's English.  The dead, he
told me, came and danced by night around the paepae of their former family; the family were
thereupon overcome by some emotion (but whether of pious sorrow or of fear I could not gather),
and must 'make a feast,' of which fish, pig, and popoi were indispensable ingredients.  So
far this is clear enough.  But here Tari went on to instance the new house of Toma and the
house-warming feast which was just then in preparation as instances in point.  Dare we indeed
string them together, and add the case of the deserted ruin, as though the dead continually
besieged the paepaes of the living:  were kept at arm's-length, even from the first foundation,
only by propitiatory feasts, and, so soon as the fire of life went out upon the hearth, swarmed
back into possession of their ancient seat?

I speak by guess of these Marquesan superstitions.  On the cannibal ghost I shall return elsewhere
with certainty.  And it is enough, for the present purpose, to remark that the men of the Marquesas,
from whatever reason, fear and shrink from the presence of ghosts. Conceive how this must tell
upon the nerves in islands where the number of the dead already so far exceeds that of the
living, and the dead multiply and the living dwindle at so swift a rate. Conceive how the remnant
huddles about the embers of the fire of life; even as old Red Indians, deserted on the march
and in the snow, the kindly tribe all gone, the last flame expiring, and the night around populous
with wolves.  We may accept some of the ideas of Mr. Darwin's theory of coral islands, and
suppose a rise of the sea, or the subsidence of some former continental area, to have driven
into the tops of the mountains multitudes of refugees.  Or we may suppose, more soberly, a
people of sea-rovers, emigrants from a crowded country, to strike upon and settle island after
island, and as time went on to multiply exceedingly in their new seats.  In either case the
end must be the same; soon or late it must grow apparent that the crew are too numerous, and
that famine is at hand.  The Polynesians met this emergent danger with various expedients of
activity and prevention.  A way was found to preserve breadfruit by packing it in artificial
pits; pits forty feet in depth and of proportionate bore are still to be seen, I am told, in
the Marquesas; and yet even these were insufficient for the teeming people, and the annals
of the past are gloomy with famine and cannibalism.  Among the Hawaiians--a hardier people,
in a more exacting climate--agriculture was carried far; the land was irrigated with canals;
and the fish-ponds of Molokai prove the number and diligence of the old inhabitants.  Meanwhile,
over all the island world, abortion and infanticide prevailed.  On coral atolls, where the
danger was most plainly obvious, these were enforced by law and sanctioned by punishment. 
On Vaitupu, in the Ellices, only two children were allowed to a couple; on Nukufetau, but one.
On the latter the punishment was by fine; and it is related that the fine was sometimes paid,
and the child spared.

This is characteristic.  For no people in the world are so fond or so long-suffering with children--children
make the mirth and the adornment of their homes, serving them for playthings and for picture-galleries.
'Happy is the man that has his quiver full of them.'  The stray bastard is contended for by
rival families; and the natural and the adopted children play and grow up together undistinguished.
The spoiling, and I may almost say the deification, of the child, is nowhere carried so far
as in the eastern islands; and furthest, according to my opportunities of observation, in the
Paumotu group, the so-called Low or Dangerous Archipelago.  I have seen a Paumotuan native
turn from me with embarrassment and disaffection because I suggested that a brat would be the
better for a beating.  It is a daily matter in some eastern islands to see a child strike or
even stone its mother, and the mother, so far from punishing, scarce ventures to resist.  In
some, when his child was born, a chief was superseded and resigned his name; as though, like
a drone, he had then fulfilled the occasion of his being.  And in some the lightest words of
children had the weight of oracles.  Only the other day, in the Marquesas, if a child conceived
a distaste to any stranger, I am assured the stranger would be slain.  And I shall have to
tell in another place an instance of the opposite:  how a child in Manihiki having taken a
fancy to myself, her adoptive parents at once accepted the situation and loaded me with gifts.

With such sentiments the necessity for child-destruction would not fail to clash, and I believe
we find the trace of divided feeling in the Tahitian brotherhood of Oro.  At a certain date
a new god was added to the Society-Island Olympus, or an old one refurbished and made popular.
Oro was his name, and he may be compared with the Bacchus of the ancients.  His zealots sailed
from bay to bay, and from island to island; they were everywhere received with feasting; wore
fine clothes; sang, danced, acted; gave exhibitions of dexterity and strength; and were the
artists, the acrobats, the bards, and the harlots of the group.  Their life was public and
epicurean; their initiation a mystery; and the highest in the land aspired to join the brotherhood.
If a couple stood next in line to a high-chieftaincy, they were suffered, on grounds of policy,
to spare one child; all other children, who had a father or a mother in the company of Oro,
stood condemned from the moment of conception.  A freemasonry, an agnostic sect, a company
of artists, its members all under oath to spread unchastity, and all forbidden to leave offspring--I
do not know how it may appear to others, but to me the design seems obvious.  Famine menacing
the islands, and the needful remedy repulsive, it was recommended to the native mind by these
trappings of mystery, pleasure, and parade.  This is the more probable, and the secret, serious
purpose of the institution appears the more plainly, if it be true that, after a certain period
of life, the obligation of the votary was changed; at first, bound to be profligate:  afterwards,
expected to be chaste.

Here, then, we have one side of the case.  Man-eating among kindly men, child-murder among
child-lovers, industry in a race the most idle, invention in a race the least progressive,
this grim, pagan salvation-army of the brotherhood of Oro, the report of early voyagers, the
widespread vestiges of former habitation, and the universal tradition of the islands, all point
to the same fact of former crowding and alarm.  And to-day we are face to face with the reverse.
To-day in the Marquesas, in the Eight Islands of Hawaii, in Mangareva, in Easter Island, we
find the same race perishing like flies.  Why this change?  Or, grant that the coming of the
whites, the change of habits, and the introduction of new maladies and vices, fully explain
the depopulation, why is that depopulation not universal?  The population of Tahiti, after
a period of alarming decrease, has again become stationary.  I hear of a similar result among
some Maori tribes; in many of the Paumotus a slight increase is to be observed; and the Samoans
are to-day as healthy and at least as fruitful as before the change.  Grant that the Tahitians,
the Maoris, and the Paumotuans have become inured to the new conditions; and what are we to
make of the Samoans, who have never suffered?

Those who are acquainted only with a single group are apt to be ready with solutions.  Thus
I have heard the mortality of the Maoris attributed to their change of residence--from fortified
hill-tops to the low, marshy vicinity of their plantations.  How plausible!  And yet the Marquesans
are dying out in the same houses where their fathers multiplied.  Or take opium.  The Marquesas
and Hawaii are the two groups the most infected with this vice; the population of the one is
the most civilised, that of the other by far the most barbarous, of Polynesians; and they are
two of those that perish the most rapidly.  Here is a strong case against opium. But let us
take unchastity, and we shall find the Marquesas and Hawaii figuring again upon another count.
Thus, Samoans are the most chaste of Polynesians, and they are to this day entirely fertile;
Marquesans are the most debauched:  we have seen how they are perishing; Hawaiians are notoriously
lax, and they begin to be dotted among deserts.  So here is a case stronger still against unchastity;
and here also we have a correction to apply.  Whatever the virtues of the Tahitian, neither
friend nor enemy dares call him chaste; and yet he seems to have outlived the time of danger.
One last example:  syphilis has been plausibly credited with much of the sterility.  But the
Samoans are, by all accounts, as fruitful as at first; by some accounts more so; and it is
not seriously to be argued that the Samoans have escaped syphilis.

These examples show how dangerous it is to reason from any particular cause, or even from many
in a single group.  I have in my eye an able and amiable pamphlet by the Rev. S. E. Bishop:
'Why are the Hawaiians Dying Out?'  Any one interested in the subject ought to read this tract,
which contains real information; and yet Mr. Bishop's views would have been changed by an acquaintance
with other groups.  Samoa is, for the moment, the main and the most instructive exception to
the rule.  The people are the most chaste and one of the most temperate of island peoples.
They have never been tried and depressed with any grave pestilence.  Their clothing has scarce
been tampered with; at the simple and becoming tabard of the girls, Tartuffe, in many another
island, would have cried out; for the cool, healthy, and modest lava-lava or kilt, Tartuffe
has managed in many another island to substitute stifling and inconvenient trousers.  Lastly,
and perhaps chiefly, so far from their amusements having been curtailed, I think they have
been, upon the whole, extended.  The Polynesian falls easily into despondency:  bereavement,
disappointment, the fear of novel visitations, the decay or proscription of ancient pleasures,
easily incline him to be sad; and sadness detaches him from life.  The melancholy of the Hawaiian
and the emptiness of his new life are striking; and the remark is yet more apposite to the
Marquesas.  In Samoa, on the other hand, perpetual song and dance, perpetual games, journeys,
and pleasures, make an animated and a smiling picture of the island life.  And the Samoans
are to-day the gayest and the best entertained inhabitants of our planet.  The importance of
this can scarcely be exaggerated.  In a climate and upon a soil where a livelihood can be had
for the stooping, entertainment is a prime necessity.  It is otherwise with us, where life
presents us with a daily problem, and there is a serious interest, and some of the heat of
conflict, in the mere continuing to be.  So, in certain atolls, where there is no great gaiety,
but man must bestir himself with some vigour for his daily bread, public health and the population
are maintained; but in the lotos islands, with the decay of pleasures, life itself decays.
It is from this point of view that we may instance, among other causes of depression, the decay
of war.  We have been so long used in Europe to that dreary business of war on the great scale,
trailing epidemics and leaving pestilential corpses in its train, that we have almost forgotten
its original, the most healthful, if not the most humane, of all field sports--hedge-warfare.
From this, as well as from the rest of his amusements and interests, the islander, upon a hundred
islands, has been recently cut off.  And to this, as well as to so many others, the Samoan
still makes good a special title.

Upon the whole, the problem seems to me to stand thus:- Where there have been fewest changes,
important or unimportant, salutary or hurtful, there the race survives.  Where there have been
most, important or unimportant, salutary or hurtful, there it perishes. Each change, however
small, augments the sum of new conditions to which the race has to become inured.  There may
seem, a priori, no comparison between the change from 'sour toddy' to bad gin, and that from
the island kilt to a pair of European trousers.  Yet I am far from persuaded that the one is
any more hurtful than the other; and the unaccustomed race will sometimes die of pin-pricks.
We are here face to face with one of the difficulties of the missionary. In Polynesian islands
he easily obtains pre-eminent authority; the king becomes his mairedupalais; he can proscribe,
he can command; and the temptation is ever towards too much.  Thus (by all accounts) the Catholics
in Mangareva, and thus (to my own knowledge) the Protestants in Hawaii, have rendered life
in a more or less degree unliveable to their converts.  And the mild, uncomplaining creatures
(like children in a prison) yawn and await death.  It is easy to blame the missionary.  But
it is his business to make changes.  It is surely his business, for example, to prevent war;
and yet I have instanced war itself as one of the elements of health.  On the other hand, it
were, perhaps, easy for the missionary to proceed more gently, and to regard every change as
an affair of weight.  I take the average missionary; I am sure I do him no more than justice
when I suppose that he would hesitate to bombard a village, even in order to convert an archipelago.
Experience begins to show us (at least in Polynesian islands) that change of habit is bloodier
than a bombardment.

There is one point, ere I have done, where I may go to meet criticism.  I have said nothing
of faulty hygiene, bathing during fevers, mistaken treatment of children, native doctoring,
or abortion--all causes frequently adduced.  And I have said nothing of them because they are
conditions common to both epochs, and even more efficient in the past than in the present.
Was it not the same with unchastity, it may be asked?  Was not the Polynesian always unchaste?
Doubtless he was so always:  doubtless he is more so since the coming of his remarkably chaste
visitors from Europe. Take the Hawaiian account of Cook:  I have no doubt it is entirely fair.
Take Krusenstern's candid, almost innocent, description of a Russian man-of-war at the Marquesas;
consider the disgraceful history of missions in Hawaii itself, where (in the war of lust) the
American missionaries were once shelled by an English adventurer, and once raided and mishandled
by the crew of an American warship; add the practice of whaling fleets to call at the Marquesas,
and carry off a complement of women for the cruise; consider, besides, how the whites were
at first regarded in the light of demi-gods, as appears plainly in the reception of Cook upon
Hawaii; and again, in the story of the discovery of Tutuila, when the really decent women of
Samoa prostituted themselves in public to the French; and bear in mind how it was the custom
of the adventurers, and we may almost say the business of the missionaries, to deride and infract
even the most salutary tapus. Here we see every engine of dissolution directed at once against
a virtue never and nowhere very strong or popular; and the result, even in the most degraded
islands, has been further degradation. Mr. Lawes, the missionary of Savage Island, told me
the standard of female chastity had declined there since the coming of the whites. In heathen
time, if a girl gave birth to a bastard, her father or brother would dash the infant down the
cliffs; and to-day the scandal would be small.  Or take the Marquesas.  Stanislao Moanatini
told me that in his own recollection, the young were strictly guarded; they were not suffered
so much as to look upon one another in the street, but passed (so my informant put it) like
dogs; and the other day the whole school-children of Nuka-hiva and Ua-pu escaped in a body
to the woods, and lived there for a fortnight in promiscuous liberty.  Readers of travels may
perhaps exclaim at my authority, and declare themselves better informed.  I should prefer the
statement of an intelligent native like Stanislao (even if it stood alone, which it is far
from doing) to the report of the most honest traveller.  A ship of war comes to a haven, anchors,
lands a party, receives and returns a visit, and the captain writes a chapter on the manners
of the island.  It is not considered what class is mostly seen.  Yet we should not be pleased
if a Lascar foremast hand were to judge England by the ladies who parade Ratcliffe Highway,
and the gentlemen who share with them their hire.  Stanislao's opinion of a decay of virtue
even in these unvirtuous islands has been supported to me by others; his very example, the
progress of dissolution amongst the young, is adduced by Mr. Bishop in Hawaii.  And so far
as Marquesans are concerned, we might have hazarded a guess of some decline in manners.  I
do not think that any race could ever have prospered or multiplied with such as now obtain;
I am sure they would have been never at the pains to count paternal kinship.  It is not possible
to give details; suffice it that their manners appear to be imitated from the dreams of ignorant
and vicious children, and their debauches persevered in until energy, reason, and almost life
itself are in abeyance.

CHAPTER VI--CHIEFS AND TAPUS

We used to admire exceedingly the bland and gallant manners of the chief called Taipi-Kikino.
An elegant guest at table, skilled in the use of knife and fork, a brave figure when he shouldered
a gun and started for the woods after wild chickens, always serviceable, always ingratiating
and gay, I would sometimes wonder where he found his cheerfulness.  He had enough to sober
him, I thought, in his official budget.  His expenses--for he was always seen attired in virgin
white--must have by far exceeded his income of six dollars in the year, or say two shillings
a month.  And he was himself a man of no substance; his house the poorest in the village. 
It was currently supposed that his elder brother, Kauanui, must have helped him out.  But how
comes it that the elder brother should succeed to the family estate, and be a wealthy commoner,
and the younger be a poor man, and yet rule as chief in Anaho?  That the one should be wealthy,
and the other almost indigent is probably to be explained by some adoption; for comparatively
few children are brought up in the house or succeed to the estates of their natural begetters.
That the one should be chief instead of the other must be explained (in a very Irish fashion)
on the ground that neither of them is a chief at all.

Since the return and the wars of the French, many chiefs have been deposed, and many so-called
chiefs appointed.  We have seen, in the same house, one such upstart drinking in the company
of two such extruded island Bourbons, men, whose word a few years ago was life and death, now
sunk to be peasants like their neighbours.  So when the French overthrew hereditary tyrants,
dubbed the commons of the Marquesas freeborn citizens of the republic, and endowed them with
a vote for a conseiller-general at Tahiti, they probably conceived themselves upon the path
to popularity; and so far from that, they were revolting public sentiment.  The deposition
of the chiefs was perhaps sometimes needful; the appointment of others may have been needful
also; it was at least a delicate business.  The Government of George II. exiled many Highland
magnates.  It never occurred to them to manufacture substitutes; and if the French have been
more bold, we have yet to see with what success.

Our chief at Anaho was always called, he always called himself, Taipi-Kikino; and yet that
was not his name, but only the wand of his false position.  As soon as he was appointed chief,
his name-- which signified, if I remember exactly, PRINCE BORN AMONG FLOWERS-- fell in abeyance,
and he was dubbed instead by the expressive byword, Taipi-Kikino--HIGHWATER MAN-OF-NO-ACCOUNT--or,
Englishing more boldly, BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK--a witty and a wicked cut.  A nickname in Polynesia
destroys almost the memory of the original name.  To-day, if we were Polynesians, Gladstone
would be no more heard of.  We should speak of and address our Nestor as the Grand Old Man,
and it is so that himself would sign his correspondence. Not the prevalence, then, but the
significancy of the nickname is to be noted here.  The new authority began with small prestige.
Taipi has now been some time in office; from all I saw he seemed a person very fit.  He is
not the least unpopular, and yet his power is nothing.  He is a chief to the French, and goes
to breakfast with the Resident; but for any practical end of chieftaincy a rag doll were equally
efficient.

We had been but three days in Anaho when we received the visit of the chief of Hatiheu, a man
of weight and fame, late leader of a war upon the French, late prisoner in Tahiti, and the
last eater of long-pig in Nuka-hiva.  Not many years have elapsed since he was seen striding
on the beach of Anaho, a dead man's arm across his shoulder.  'So does Kooamua to his enemies!'
he roared to the passers-by, and took a bite from the raw flesh.  And now behold this gentleman,
very wisely replaced in office by the French, paying us a morning visit in European clothes.
He was the man of the most character we had yet seen:  his manners genial and decisive, his
person tall, his face rugged, astute, formidable, and with a certain similarity to Mr. Gladstone's--only
for the brownness of the skin, and the high-chief's tattooing, all one side and much of the
other being of an even blue.  Further acquaintance increased our opinion of his sense.  He
viewed the Casco in a manner then quite new to us, examining her lines and the running of the
gear; to a piece of knitting on which one of the party was engaged, he must have devoted ten
minutes' patient study; nor did he desist before he had divined the principles; and he was
interested even to excitement by a type-writer, which he learned to work.  When he departed
he carried away with him a list of his family, with his own name printed by his own hand at
the bottom.  I should add that he was plainly much of a humorist, and not a little of a humbug.
He told us, for instance, that he was a person of exact sobriety; such being the obligation
of his high estate:  the commons might be sots, but the chief could not stoop so low.  And
not many days after he was to be observed in a state of smiling and lop-sided imbecility, the
Casco ribbon upside down on his dishonoured hat.

But his business that morning in Anaho is what concerns us here. The devil-fish, it seems,
were growing scarce upon the reef; it was judged fit to interpose what we should call a close
season; for that end, in Polynesia, a tapu (vulgarly spelt 'taboo') has to be declared, and
who was to declare it?  Taipi might; he ought; it was a chief part of his duty; but would any
one regard the inhibition of a Beggar on Horse-back?  He might plant palm branches:  it did
not in the least follow that the spot was sacred.  He might recite the spell:  it was shrewdly
supposed the spirits would not hearken. And so the old, legitimate cannibal must ride over
the mountains to do it for him; and the respectable official in white clothes could but look
on and envy.  At about the same time, though in a different manner, Kooamua established a forest
law.  It was observed the cocoa-palms were suffering, for the plucking of green nuts impoverishes
and at last endangers the tree.  Now Kooamua could tapu the reef, which was public property,
but he could not tapu other people's palms; and the expedient adopted was interesting.  He
tapu'd his own trees, and his example was imitated over all Hatiheu and Anaho.  I fear Taipi
might have tapu'd all that he possessed and found none to follow him.  So much for the esteem
in which the dignity of an appointed chief is held by others; a single circumstance will show
what he thinks of it himself.  I never met one, but he took an early opportunity to explain
his situation.  True, he was only an appointed chief when I beheld him; but somewhere else,
perhaps upon some other isle, he was a chieftain by descent:  upon which ground, he asked me
(so to say it) to excuse his mushroom honours.

It will be observed with surprise that both these tapus are for thoroughly sensible ends. 
With surprise, I say, because the nature of that institution is much misunderstood in Europe.
It is taken usually in the sense of a meaningless or wanton prohibition, such as that which
to-day prevents women in some countries from smoking, or yesterday prevented any one in Scotland
from taking a walk on Sunday.  The error is no less natural than it is unjust.  The Polynesians
have not been trained in the bracing, practical thought of ancient Rome; with them the idea
of law has not been disengaged from that of morals or propriety; so that tapu has to cover
the whole field, and implies indifferently that an act is criminal, immoral, against sound
public policy, unbecoming or (as we say) 'not in good form.'  Many tapus were in consequence
absurd enough, such as those which deleted words out of the language, and particularly those
which related to women.  Tapu encircled women upon all hands.  Many things were forbidden to
men; to women we may say that few were permitted.  They must not sit on the paepae; they must
not go up to it by the stair; they must not eat pork; they must not approach a boat; they must
not cook at a fire which any male had kindled.  The other day, after the roads were made, it
was observed the women plunged along margin through the bush, and when they came to a bridge
waded through the water:  roads and bridges were the work of men's hands, and tapu for the
foot of women.  Even a man's saddle, if the man be native, is a thing no self-respecting lady
dares to use.  Thus on the Anaho side of the island, only two white men, Mr. Regler and the
gendarme, M. Aussel, possess saddles; and when a woman has a journey to make she must borrow
from one or other.  It will be noticed that these prohibitions tend, most of them, to an increased
reserve between the sexes.  Regard for female chastity is the usual excuse for these disabilities
that men delight to lay upon their wives and mothers.  Here the regard is absent; and behold
the women still bound hand and foot with meaningless proprieties!  The women themselves, who
are survivors of the old regimen, admit that in those days life was not worth living.  And
yet even then there were exceptions.  There were female chiefs and (I am assured) priestesses
besides; nice customs curtseyed to great dames, and in the most sacred enclosure of a High
Place, Father Simeon Delmar was shown a stone, and told it was the throne of some well-descended
lady.  How exactly parallel is this with European practice, when princesses were suffered to
penetrate the strictest cloister, and women could rule over a land in which they were denied
the control of their own children.

But the tapu is more often the instrument of wise and needful restrictions.  We have seen it
as the organ of paternal government. It serves besides to enforce, in the rare case of some
one wishing to enforce them, rights of private property.  Thus a man, weary of the coming and
going of Marquesan visitors, tapus his door; and to this day you may see the palm-branch signal,
even as our great- grandfathers saw the peeled wand before a Highland inn.  Or take another
case.  Anaho is known as 'the country without popoi.'  The word popoi serves in different islands
to indicate the main food of the people:  thus, in Hawaii, it implies a preparation of taro;
in the Marquesas, of breadfruit.  And a Marquesan does not readily conceive life possible without
his favourite diet.  A few years ago a drought killed the breadfruit trees and the bananas
in the district of Anaho; and from this calamity, and the open-handed customs of the island,
a singular state of things arose.  Well- watered Hatiheu had escaped the drought; every householder
of Anaho accordingly crossed the pass, chose some one in Hatiheu, 'gave him his name'--an onerous
gift, but one not to be rejected--and from this improvised relative proceeded to draw his supplies,
for all the world as though he had paid for them.  Hence a continued traffic on the road. 
Some stalwart fellow, in a loin-cloth, and glistening with sweat, may be seen at all hours
of the day, a stick across his bare shoulders, tripping nervously under a double burthen of
green fruits.  And on the far side of the gap a dozen stone posts on the wayside in the shadow
of a grove mark the breathing-space of the popoi-carriers.  A little back from the beach, and
not half a mile from Anaho, I was the more amazed to find a cluster of well-doing breadfruits
heavy with their harvest. 'Why do you not take these?' I asked.  'Tapu,' said Hoka; and I thought
to myself (after the manner of dull travellers) what children and fools these people were to
toil over the mountain and despoil innocent neighbours when the staff of life was thus growing
at their door.  I was the more in error.  In the general destruction these surviving trees
were enough only for the family of the proprietor, and by the simple expedient of declaring
a tapu he enforced his right.

The sanction of the tapu is superstitious; and the punishment of infraction either a wasting
or a deadly sickness.  A slow disease follows on the eating of tapu fish, and can only be cured
with the bones of the same fish burned with the due mysteries.  The cocoa- nut and breadfruit
tapu works more swiftly.  Suppose you have eaten tapu fruit at the evening meal, at night your
sleep will be uneasy; in the morning, swelling and a dark discoloration will have attacked
your neck, whence they spread upward to the face; and in two days, unless the cure be interjected,
you must die.  This cure is prepared from the rubbed leaves of the tree from which the patient
stole; so that he cannot be saved without confessing to the Tahuku the person whom he wronged.
In the experience of my informant, almost no tapu had been put in use, except the two described:
he had thus no opportunity to learn the nature and operation of the others; and, as the art
of making them was jealously guarded amongst the old men, he believed the mystery would soon
die out.  I should add that he was no Marquesan, but a Chinaman, a resident in the group from
boyhood, and a reverent believer in the spells which he described.  White men, amongst whom
Ah Fu included himself, were exempt; but he had a tale of a Tahitian woman, who had come to
the Marquesas, eaten tapu fish, and, although uninformed of her offence and danger, had been
afflicted and cured exactly like a native.

Doubtless the belief is strong; doubtless, with this weakly and fanciful race, it is in many
cases strong enough to kill; it should be strong indeed in those who tapu their trees secretly,
so that they may detect a depredator by his sickness.  Or, perhaps, we should understand the
idea of the hidden tapu otherwise, as a politic device to spread uneasiness and extort confessions:
so that, when a man is ailing, he shall ransack his brain for any possible offence, and send
at once for any proprietor whose rights he has invaded.  'Had you hidden a tapu?' we may conceive
him asking; and I cannot imagine the proprietor gainsaying it; and this is perhaps the strangest
feature of the system--that it should be regarded from without with such a mental and implicit
awe, and, when examined from within, should present so many apparent evidences of design.

We read in Dr. Campbell's Poenamo of a New Zealand girl, who was foolishly told that she had
eaten a tapu yam, and who instantly sickened, and died in the two days of simple terror.  The
period is the same as in the Marquesas; doubtless the symptoms were so too. How singular to
consider that a superstition of such sway is possibly a manufactured article; and that, even
if it were not originally invented, its details have plainly been arranged by the authorities
of some Polynesian Scotland Yard.  Fitly enough, the belief is to-day--and was probably always--far
from universal. Hell at home is a strong deterrent with some; a passing thought with others;
with others, again, a theme of public mockery, not always well assured; and so in the Marquesas
with the tapu.  Mr. Regler has seen the two extremes of scepticism and implicit fear. In the
tapu grove he found one fellow stealing breadfruit, cheerful and impudent as a street arab;
and it was only on a menace of exposure that he showed himself the least discountenanced. 
The other case was opposed in every point.  Mr. Regler asked a native to accompany him upon
a voyage; the man went gladly enough, but suddenly perceiving a dead tapu fish in the bottom
of the boat, leaped back with a scream; nor could the promise of a dollar prevail upon him
to advance.

The Marquesan, it will be observed, adheres to the old idea of the local circumscription of
beliefs and duties.  Not only are the whites exempt from consequences; but their transgressions
seem to be viewed without horror.  It was Mr. Regler who had killed the fish; yet the devout
native was not shocked at Mr. Regler--only refused to join him in his boat.  A white is a white:
the servant (so to speak) of other and more liberal gods; and not to be blamed if he profit
by his liberty.  The Jews were perhaps the first to interrupt this ancient comity of faiths;
and the Jewish virus is still strong in Christianity.  All the world must respect our tapus,
or we gnash our teeth.

CHAPTER VII--HATIHEU

The bays of Anaho and Hatiheu are divided at their roots by the knife-edge of a single hill--the
pass so often mentioned; but this isthmus expands to the seaward in a considerable peninsula:
very bare and grassy; haunted by sheep and, at night and morning, by the piercing cries of
the shepherds; wandered over by a few wild goats; and on its sea-front indented with long,
clamorous caves, and faced with cliffs of the colour and ruinous outline of an old peat-stack.
In one of these echoing and sunless gullies we saw, clustered like sea-birds on a splashing
ledge, shrill as sea-birds in their salutation to the passing boat, a group of fisherwomen,
stripped to their gaudy under-clothes.  (The clash of the surf and the thin female voices echo
in my memory.)  We had that day a native crew and steersman, Kauanui; it was our first experience
of Polynesian seamanship, which consists in hugging every point of land.  There is no thought
in this of saving time, for they will pull a long way in to skirt a point that is embayed.
It seems that, as they can never get their houses near enough the surf upon the one side, so
they can never get their boats near enough upon the other.  The practice in bold water is not
so dangerous as it looks--the reflex from the rocks sending the boat off.  Near beaches with
a heavy run of sea, I continue to think it very hazardous, and find the composure of the natives
annoying to behold.  We took unmingled pleasure, on the way out, to see so near at hand the
beach and the wonderful colours of the surf.  On the way back, when the sea had risen and was
running strong against us, the fineness of the steersman's aim grew more embarrassing.  As
we came abreast of the sea-front, where the surf broke highest, Kauanui embraced the occasion
to light his pipe, which then made the circuit of the boat--each man taking a whiff or two,
and, ere he passed it on, filling his lungs and cheeks with smoke.  Their faces were all puffed
out like apples as we came abreast of the cliff foot, and the bursting surge fell back into
the boat in showers.  At the next point 'cocanetti' was the word, and the stroke borrowed my
knife, and desisted from his labours to open nuts.  These untimely indulgences may be compared
to the tot of grog served out before a ship goes into action.

My purpose in this visit led me first to the boys' school, for Hatiheu is the university of
the north islands.  The hum of the lesson came out to meet us.  Close by the door, where the
draught blew coolest, sat the lay brother; around him, in a packed half- circle, some sixty
high-coloured faces set with staring eyes; and in the background of the barn-like room benches
were to be seen, and blackboards with sums on them in chalk.  The brother rose to greet us,
sensibly humble.  Thirty years he had been there, he said, and fingered his white locks as
a bashful child pulls out his pinafore. 'Et point de resultats, monsieur, presque pas de resultats.'
He pointed to the scholars:  'You see, sir, all the youth of Nuka-hiva and Ua-pu.  Between
the ages of six and fifteen this is all that remains; and it is but a few years since we had
a hundred and twenty from Nuka-hiva alone.  Oui, monsieur, cela se deperit.'  Prayers, and
reading and writing, prayers again and arithmetic, and more prayers to conclude:  such appeared
to be the dreary nature of the course.  For arithmetic all island people have a natural taste.
In Hawaii they make good progress in mathematics. In one of the villages on Majuro, and generally
in the Marshall group, the whole population sit about the trader when he is weighing copra,
and each on his own slate takes down the figures and computes the total.  The trader, finding
them so apt, introduced fractions, for which they had been taught no rule.  At first they were
quite gravelled but ultimately, by sheer hard thinking, reasoned out the result, and came one
after another to assure the trader he was right.  Not many people in Europe could have done
the like.  The course at Hatiheu is therefore less dispiriting to Polynesians than a stranger
might have guessed; and yet how bald it is at best!  I asked the brother if he did not tell
them stories, and he stared at me; if he did not teach them history, and he said, 'O yes, they
had a little Scripture history-- from the New Testament'; and repeated his lamentations over
the lack of results.  I had not the heart to put more questions; I could but say it must be
very discouraging, and resist the impulse to add that it seemed also very natural.  He looked
up--'My days are far spent,' he said; 'heaven awaits me.'  May that heaven forgive me, but
I was angry with the old man and his simple consolation.  For think of his opportunity!  The
youth, from six to fifteen, are taken from their homes by Government, centralised at Hatiheu,
where they are supported by a weekly tax of food; and, with the exception of one month in every
year, surrendered wholly to the direction of the priests.  Since the escapade already mentioned
the holiday occurs at a different period for the girls and for the boys; so that a Marquesan
brother and sister meet again, after their education is complete, a pair of strangers.  It
is a harsh law, and highly unpopular; but what a power it places in the hands of the instructors,
and how languidly and dully is that power employed by the mission!  Too much concern to make
the natives pious, a design in which they all confess defeat, is, I suppose, the explanation
of their miserable system.  But they might see in the girls' school at Tai-o-hae, under the
brisk, housewifely sisters, a different picture of efficiency, and a scene of neatness, airiness,
and spirited and mirthful occupation that should shame them into cheerier methods.  The sisters
themselves lament their failure.  They complain the annual holiday undoes the whole year's
work; they complain particularly of the heartless indifference of the girls.  Out of so many
pretty and apparently affectionate pupils whom they have taught and reared, only two have ever
returned to pay a visit of remembrance to their teachers. These, indeed, come regularly, but
the rest, so soon as their school-days are over, disappear into the woods like captive insects.
It is hard to imagine anything more discouraging; and yet I do not believe these ladies need
despair.  For a certain interval they keep the girls alive and innocently busy; and if it be
at all possible to save the race, this would be the means.  No such praise can be given to
the boys' school at Hatiheu.  The day is numbered already for them all; alike for the teacher
and the scholars death is girt; he is afoot upon the march; and in the frequent interval they
sit and yawn.  But in life there seems a thread of purpose through the least significant; the
drowsiest endeavour is not lost, and even the school at Hatiheu may be more useful than it seems.

Hatiheu is a place of some pretensions.  The end of the bay towards Anaho may be called the
civil compound, for it boasts the house of Kooamua, and close on the beach, under a great tree,
that of the gendarme, M. Armand Aussel, with his garden, his pictures, his books, and his excellent
table, to which strangers are made welcome.  No more singular contrast is possible than between
the gendarmerie and the priesthood, who are besides in smouldering opposition and full of mutual
complaints.  A priest's kitchen in the eastern islands is a depressing spot to see; and many,
or most of them, make no attempt to keep a garden, sparsely subsisting on their rations.  But
you will never dine with a gendarme without smacking your lips; and M. Aussel's home-made sausage
and the salad from his garden are unforgotten delicacies.  Pierre Loti may like to know that
he is M. Aussel's favourite author, and that his books are read in the fit scenery of Hatiheu bay.

The other end is all religious.  It is here that an overhanging and tip-tilted horn, a good
sea-mark for Hatiheu, bursts naked from the verdure of the climbing forest, and breaks down
shoreward in steep taluses and cliffs.  From the edge of one of the highest, perhaps seven
hundred or a thousand feet above the beach, a Virgin looks insignificantly down, like a poor
lost doll, forgotten there by a giant child.  This laborious symbol of the Catholics is always
strange to Protestants; we conceive with wonder that men should think it worth while to toil
so many days, and clamber so much about the face of precipices, for an end that makes us smile;
and yet I believe it was the wise Bishop Dordillon who chose the place, and I know that those
who had a hand in the enterprise look back with pride upon its vanquished dangers.  The boys'
school is a recent importation; it was at first in Tai-o-hae, beside the girls'; and it was
only of late, after their joint escapade, that the width of the island was interposed between
the sexes.  But Hatiheu must have been a place of missionary importance from before.  About
midway of the beach no less than three churches stand grouped in a patch of bananas, intermingled
with some pine- apples.  Two are of wood:  the original church, now in disuse; and a second
that, for some mysterious reason, has never been used. The new church is of stone, with twin
towers, walls flangeing into buttresses, and sculptured front.  The design itself is good,
simple, and shapely; but the character is all in the detail, where the architect has bloomed
into the sculptor.  It is impossible to tell in words of the angels (although they are more
like winged archbishops) that stand guard upon the door, of the cherubs in the corners, of
the scapegoat gargoyles, or the quaint and spirited relief, where St. Michael (the artist's
patron) makes short work of a protesting Lucifer.  We were never weary of viewing the imagery,
so innocent, sometimes so funny, and yet in the best sense--in the sense of inventive gusto
and expression--so artistic.  I know not whether it was more strange to find a building of
such merit in a corner of a barbarous isle, or to see a building so antique still bright with
novelty.  The architect, a French lay brother, still alive and well, and meditating fresh foundations,
must have surely drawn his descent from a master-builder in the age of the cathedrals; and
it was in looking on the church of Hatiheu that I seemed to perceive the secret charm of mediaeval
sculpture; that combination of the childish courage of the amateur, attempting all things,
like the schoolboy on his slate, with the manly perseverance of the artist who does not know
when he is conquered.

I had always afterwards a strong wish to meet the architect, Brother Michel; and one day, when
I was talking with the Resident in Tai-o-hae (the chief port of the island), there were shown
in to us an old, worn, purblind, ascetic-looking priest, and a lay brother, a type of all that
is most sound in France, with a broad, clever, honest, humorous countenance, an eye very large
and bright, and a strong and healthy body inclining to obesity.  But that his blouse was black
and his face shaven clean, you might pick such a man to-day, toiling cheerfully in his own
patch of vines, from half a dozen provinces of France; and yet he had always for me a haunting
resemblance to an old kind friend of my boyhood, whom I name in case any of my readers should
share with me that memory-- Dr. Paul, of the West Kirk.  Almost at the first word I was sure
it was my architect, and in a moment we were deep in a discussion of Hatiheu church.  Brother
Michel spoke always of his labours with a twinkle of humour, underlying which it was possible
to spy a serious pride, and the change from one to another was often very human and diverting.
'Et vos gargouilles moyen-age,' cried I; 'comme elles sont originates!'  'N'est-ce pas?  Elles
sont bien droles!' he said, smiling broadly; and the next moment, with a sudden gravity:  'Cependant
il y en a une qui a une patte de casse; il faut que je voie cela.'  I asked if he had any model--a
point we much discussed.  'Non,' said he simply; 'c'est une eglise ideale.' The relievo was
his favourite performance, and very justly so.  The angels at the door, he owned, he would
like to destroy and replace. 'Ils n'ont pas de vie, ils manquent de vie.  Vous devriez voir
mon eglise a la Dominique; j'ai la une Vierge qui est vraiment gentille.'  'Ah,' I cried, 'they
told me you had said you would never build another church, and I wrote in my journal I could
not believe it.'  'Oui, j'aimerais bien en fairs une autre,' he confessed, and smiled at the
confession.  An artist will understand how much I was attracted by this conversation.  There
is no bond so near as a community in that unaffected interest and slightly shame- faced pride
which mark the intelligent man enamoured of an art.  He sees the limitations of his aim, the
defects of his practice; he smiles to be so employed upon the shores of death, yet sees in
his own devotion something worthy.  Artists, if they had the same sense of humour with the
Augurs, would smile like them on meeting, but the smile would not be scornful.

I had occasion to see much of this excellent man.  He sailed with us from Tai-o-hae to Hiva-oa,
a dead beat of ninety miles against a heavy sea.  It was what is called a good passage, and
a feather in the Casco's cap; but among the most miserable forty hours that any one of us had
ever passed.  We were swung and tossed together all that time like shot in a stage thunder-box.
The mate was thrown down and had his head cut open; the captain was sick on deck; the cook
sick in the galley.  Of all our party only two sat down to dinner.  I was one.  I own that
I felt wretchedly; and I can only say of the other, who professed to feel quite well, that
she fled at an early moment from the table.  It was in these circumstances that we skirted
the windward shore of that indescribable island of Ua-pu; viewing with dizzy eyes the coves,
the capes, the breakers, the climbing forests, and the inaccessible stone needles that surmount
the mountains.  The place persists, in a dark corner of our memories, like a piece of the scenery
of nightmares.  The end of this distressful passage, where we were to land our passengers,
was in a similar vein of roughness.  The surf ran high on the beach at Taahauku; the boat broached-to
and capsized; and all hands were submerged.  Only the brother himself, who was well used to
the experience, skipped ashore, by some miracle of agility, with scarce a sprinkling.  Thenceforward,
during our stay at Hiva-oa, he was our cicerone and patron; introducing us, taking us excursions,
serving us in every way, and making himself daily more beloved.

Michel Blanc had been a carpenter by trade; had made money and retired, supposing his active
days quite over; and it was only when he found idleness dangerous that he placed his capital
and acquirements at the service of the mission.  He became their carpenter, mason, architect,
and engineer; added sculpture to his accomplishments, and was famous for his skill in gardening.
He wore an enviable air of having found a port from life's contentions and lying there strongly
anchored; went about his business with a jolly simplicity; complained of no lack of results--perhaps
shyly thinking his own statuary result enough; and was altogether a pattern of the missionary
layman.

CHAPTER VIII--THE PORT OF ENTRY

The port--the mart, the civil and religious capital of these rude islands--is called Tai-o-hae,
and lies strung along the beach of a precipitous green bay in Nuka-hiva.  It was midwinter
when we came thither, and the weather was sultry, boisterous, and inconstant. Now the wind
blew squally from the land down gaps of splintered precipice; now, between the sentinel islets
of the entry, it came in gusts from seaward.  Heavy and dark clouds impended on the summits;
the rain roared and ceased; the scuppers of the mountain gushed; and the next day we would
see the sides of the amphitheatre bearded with white falls.  Along the beach the town shows
a thin file of houses, mostly white, and all ensconced in the foliage of an avenue of green
puraos; a pier gives access from the sea across the belt of breakers; to the eastward there
stands, on a projecting bushy hill, the old fort which is now the calaboose, or prison; eastward
still, alone in a garden, the Residency flies the colours of France.  Just off Calaboose Hill,
the tiny Government schooner rides almost permanently at anchor, marks eight bells in the morning
(there or thereabout) with the unfurling of her flag, and salutes the setting sun with the
report of a musket.

Here dwell together, and share the comforts of a club (which may be enumerated as a billiard-board,
absinthe, a map of the world on Mercator's projection, and one of the most agreeable verandahs
in the tropics), a handful of whites of varying nationality, mostly French officials, German
and Scottish merchant clerks, and the agents of the opium monopoly.  There are besides three
tavern- keepers, the shrewd Scot who runs the cotton gin-mill, two white ladies, and a sprinkling
of people 'on the beach'--a South Sea expression for which there is no exact equivalent.  It
is a pleasant society, and a hospitable.  But one man, who was often to be seen seated on the
logs at the pier-head, merits a word for the singularity of his history and appearance.  Long
ago, it seems, he fell in love with a native lady, a High Chiefess in Ua-pu.  She, on being
approached, declared she could never marry a man who was untattooed; it looked so naked; whereupon,
with some greatness of soul, our hero put himself in the hands of the Tahukus, and, with still
greater, persevered until the process was complete.  He had certainly to bear a great expense,
for the Tahuku will not work without reward; and certainly exquisite pain.  Kooamua, high chief
as he was, and one of the old school, was only part tattooed; he could not, he told us with
lively pantomime, endure the torture to an end.  Our enamoured countryman was more resolved;
he was tattooed from head to foot in the most approved methods of the art; and at last presented
himself before his mistress a new man.  The fickle fair one could never behold him from that
day except with laughter.  For my part, I could never see the man without a kind of admiration;
of him it might be said, if ever of any, that he had loved not wisely, but too well.

The Residency stands by itself, Calaboose Hill screening it from the fringe of town along the
further bay.  The house is commodious, with wide verandahs; all day it stands open, back and
front, and the trade blows copiously over its bare floors.  On a week-day the garden offers
a scene of most untropical animation, half a dozen convicts toiling there cheerfully with spade
and barrow, and touching hats and smiling to the visitor like old attached family servants.
On Sunday these are gone, and nothing to be seen but dogs of all ranks and sizes peacefully
slumbering in the shady grounds; for the dogs of Tai-o-hae are very courtly-minded, and make
the seat of Government their promenade and place of siesta. In front and beyond, a strip of
green down loses itself in a low wood of many species of acacia; and deep in the wood a ruinous
wall encloses the cemetery of the Europeans.  English and Scottish sleep there, and Scandinavians,
and French maitres de manoeuvres and maitres ouvriers:  mingling alien dust.  Back in the woods,
perhaps, the blackbird, or (as they call him there) the island nightingale, will be singing
home strains; and the ceaseless requiem of the surf hangs on the ear.  I have never seen a
resting- place more quiet; but it was a long thought how far these sleepers had all travelled,
and from what diverse homes they had set forth, to lie here in the end together.

On the summit of its promontory hill, the calaboose stands all day with doors and window-shutters
open to the trade.  On my first visit a dog was the only guardian visible.  He, indeed, rose
with an attitude so menacing that I was glad to lay hands on an old barrel-hoop; and I think
the weapon must have been familiar, for the champion instantly retreated, and as I wandered
round the court and through the building, I could see him, with a couple of companions, humbly
dodging me about the corners.  The prisoners' dormitory was a spacious, airy room, devoid of
any furniture; its whitewashed walls covered with inscriptions in Marquesan and rude drawings:
one of the pier, not badly done; one of a murder; several of French soldiers in uniform.  There
was one legend in French:  'Je n'est' (sic) 'pas le sou.'  From this noontide quietude it must
not be supposed the prison was untenanted; the calaboose at Tai-o-hae does a good business.
But some of its occupants were gardening at the Residency, and the rest were probably at work
upon the streets, as free as our scavengers at home, although not so industrious.  On the approach
of evening they would be called in like children from play; and the harbour-master (who is
also the jailer) would go through the form of locking them up until six the next morning. 
Should a prisoner have any call in town, whether of pleasure or affairs, he has but to unhook
the window-shutters; and if he is back again, and the shutter decently replaced, by the hour
of call on the morrow, he may have met the harbour-master in the avenue, and there will be
no complaint, far less any punishment.  But this is not all.  The charming French Resident,
M. Delaruelle, carried me one day to the calaboose on an official visit.  In the green court,
a very ragged gentleman, his legs deformed with the island elephantiasis, saluted us smiling.
'One of our political prisoners--an insurgent from Raiatea,' said the Resident; and then to
the jailer:  'I thought I had ordered him a new pair of trousers.'  Meanwhile no other convict
was to be seen--'Eh bien,' said the Resident, 'ou sont vos prisonniers?' 'Monsieur le Resident,'
replied the jailer, saluting with soldierly formality, 'comme c'est jour de fete, je les ai
laisse aller a la chasse.'  They were all upon the mountains hunting goats! Presently we came
to the quarters of the women, likewise deserted-- 'Ou sont vos bonnes femmes?' asked the Resident;
and the jailer cheerfully responded:  'Je crois, Monsieur le Resident, qu'elles sont allees
quelquepart faire une visite.'  It had been the design of M. Delaruelle, who was much in love
with the whimsicalities of his small realm, to elicit something comical; but not even he expected
anything so perfect as the last.  To complete the picture of convict life in Tai-o-hae, it
remains to be added that these criminals draw a salary as regularly as the President of the
Republic.  Ten sous a day is their hire.  Thus they have money, food, shelter, clothing, and,
I was about to write, their liberty. The French are certainly a good-natured people, and make
easy masters.  They are besides inclined to view the Marquesans with an eye of humorous indulgence.
'They are dying, poor devils!' said M. Delaruelle:  'the main thing is to let them die in peace.'
And it was not only well said, but I believe expressed the general thought.  Yet there is another
element to be considered; for these convicts are not merely useful, they are almost essential
to the French existence.  With a people incurably idle, dispirited by what can only be called
endemic pestilence, and inflamed with ill- feeling against their new masters, crime and convict
labour are a godsend to the Government.

Theft is practically the sole crime.  Originally petty pilferers, the men of Tai-o-hae now
begin to force locks and attack strong- boxes.  Hundreds of dollars have been taken at a time;
though, with that redeeming moderation so common in Polynesian theft, the Marquesan burglar
will always take a part and leave a part, sharing (so to speak) with the proprietor.  If it
be Chilian coin--the island currency--he will escape; if the sum is in gold, French silver,
or bank-notes, the police wait until the money begins to come in circulation, and then easily
pick out their man.  And now comes the shameful part.  In plain English, the prisoner is tortured
until he confesses and (if that be possible) restores the money.  To keep him alone, day and
night, in the black hole, is to inflict on the Marquesan torture inexpressible.  Even his robberies
are carried on in the plain daylight, under the open sky, with the stimulus of enterprise,
and the countenance of an accomplice; his terror of the dark is still insurmountable; conceive,
then, what he endures in his solitary dungeon; conceive how he longs to confess, become a full-fledged
convict, and be allowed to sleep beside his comrades.  While we were in Tai-o-hae a thief was
under prevention. He had entered a house about eight in the morning, forced a trunk, and stolen
eleven hundred francs; and now, under the horrors of darkness, solitude, and a bedevilled cannibal
imagination, he was reluctantly confessing and giving up his spoil.  From one cache, which
he had already pointed out, three hundred francs had been recovered, and it was expected that
he would presently disgorge the rest.  This would be ugly enough if it were all; but I am bound
to say, because it is a matter the French should set at rest, that worse is continually hinted.
I heard that one man was kept six days with his arms bound backward round a barrel; and it
is the universal report that every gendarme in the South Seas is equipped with something in
the nature of a thumbscrew.  I do not know this. I never had the face to ask any of the gendarmes--pleasant,
intelligent, and kindly fellows--with whom I have been intimate, and whose hospitality I have
enjoyed; and perhaps the tale reposes (as I hope it does) on a misconstruction of that ingenious
cat's- cradle with which the French agent of police so readily secures a prisoner.  But whether
physical or moral, torture is certainly employed; and by a barbarous injustice, the state of
accusation (in which a man may very well be innocently placed) is positively painful; the state
of conviction (in which all are supposed guilty) is comparatively free, and positively pleasant.
Perhaps worse still,--not only the accused, but sometimes his wife, his mistress, or his friend,
is subjected to the same hardships.  I was admiring, in the tapu system, the ingenuity of native
methods of detection; there is not much to admire in those of the French, and to lock up a
timid child in a dark room, and, if he proved obstinate, lock up his sister in the next, is
neither novel nor humane.

The main occasion of these thefts is the new vice of opium-eating. 'Here nobody ever works,
and all eat opium,' said a gendarme; and Ah Fu knew a woman who ate a dollar's worth in a day.
The successful thief will give a handful of money to each of his friends, a dress to a woman,
pass an evening in one of the taverns of Tai-o-hae, during which he treats all comers, produce
a big lump of opium, and retire to the bush to eat and sleep it off.  A trader, who did not
sell opium, confessed to me that he was at his wit's end.  'I do not sell it, but others do,'
said he.  'The natives only work to buy it; if they walk over to me to sell their cotton, they
have just to walk over to some one else to buy their opium with my money.  And why should they
be at the bother of two walks?  There is no use talking,' he added--'opium is the currency
of this country.'

The man under prevention during my stay at Tai-o-hae lost patience while the Chinese opium-seller
was being examined in his presence. 'Of course he sold me opium!' he broke out; 'all the Chinese
here sell opium.  It was only to buy opium that I stole; it is only to buy opium that anybody
steals.  And what you ought to do is to let no opium come here, and no Chinamen.'  This is
precisely what is done in Samoa by a native Government; but the French have bound their own
hands, and for forty thousand francs sold native subjects to crime and death.  This horrid
traffic may be said to have sprung up by accident.  It was Captain Hart who had the misfortune
to be the means of beginning it, at a time when his plantations flourished in the Marquesas,
and he found a difficulty in keeping Chinese coolies.  To-day the plantations are practically
deserted and the Chinese gone; but in the meanwhile the natives have learned the vice, the
patent brings in a round sum, and the needy Government at Papeete shut their eyes and open
their pockets.  Of course, the patentee is supposed to sell to Chinamen alone; equally of course,
no one could afford to pay forty thousand francs for the privilege of supplying a scattered
handful of Chinese; and every one knows the truth, and all are ashamed of it.  French officials
shake their heads when opium is mentioned; and the agents of the farmer blush for their employment.
Those that live in glass houses should not throw stones; as a subject of the British crown,
I am an unwilling shareholder in the largest opium business under heaven. But the British case
is highly complicated; it implies the livelihood of millions; and must be reformed, when it
can be reformed at all, with prudence.  This French business, on the other hand, is a nostrum
and a mere excrescence.  No native industry was to be encouraged:  the poison is solemnly imported.
No native habit was to be considered:  the vice has been gratuitously introduced.  And no creature
profits, save the Government at Papeete--the not very enviable gentlemen who pay them, and
the Chinese underlings who do the dirty work.

CHAPTER IX--THE HOUSE OF TEMOANA

The history of the Marquesas is, of late years, much confused by the coming and going of the
French.  At least twice they have seized the archipelago, at least once deserted it; and in
the meanwhile the natives pursued almost without interruption their desultory cannibal wars.
Through these events and changing dynasties, a single considerable figure may be seen to move:
that of the high chief, a king, Temoana.  Odds and ends of his history came to my ears:  how
he was at first a convert to the Protestant mission; how he was kidnapped or exiled from his
native land, served as cook aboard a whaler, and was shown, for small charge, in English seaports;
how he returned at last to the Marquesas, fell under the strong and benign influence of the
late bishop, extended his influence in the group, was for a while joint ruler with the prelate,
and died at last the chief supporter of Catholicism and the French.  His widow remains in receipt
of two pounds a month from the French Government.  Queen she is usually called, but in the
official almanac she figures as 'Madame Vaekehu, Grande Chefesse.'  His son (natural or adoptive,
I know not which), Stanislao Moanatini, chief of Akaui, serves in Tai-o-hae as a kind of Minister
of Public Works; and the daughter of Stanislao is High Chiefess of the southern island of Tauata.
These, then, are the greatest folk of the archipelago; we thought them also the most estimable.
This is the rule in Polynesia, with few exceptions; the higher the family, the better the man--better
in sense, better in manners, and usually taller and stronger in body.  A stranger advances
blindfold.  He scrapes acquaintance as he can.  Save the tattoo in the Marquesas, nothing indicates
the difference of rank; and yet almost invariably we found, after we had made them, that our
friends were persons of station.  I have said 'usually taller and stronger.'  I might have
been more absolute,--over all Polynesia, and a part of Micronesia, the rule holds good; the
great ones of the isle, and even of the village, are greater of bone and muscle, and often
heavier of flesh, than any commoner.  The usual explanation--that the high-born child is more
industriously shampooed, is probably the true one.  In New Caledonia, at least, where the difference
does not exist, has never been remarked, the practice of shampooing seems to be itself unknown.
Doctors would be well employed in a study of the point.

Vaekehu lives at the other end of the town from the Residency, beyond the buildings of the
mission.  Her house is on the European plan:  a table in the midst of the chief room; photographs
and religious pictures on the wall.  It commands to either hand a charming vista:  through
the front door, a peep of green lawn, scurrying pigs, the pendent fans of the coco-palm and
splendour of the bursting surf:  through the back, mounting forest glades and coronals of precipice.
Here, in the strong thorough-draught, Her Majesty received us in a simple gown of print, and
with no mark of royalty but the exquisite finish of her tattooed mittens, the elaboration of
her manners, and the gentle falsetto in which all the highly refined among Marquesan ladies
(and Vaekehu above all others) delight to sing their language.  An adopted daughter interpreted,
while we gave the news, and rehearsed by name our friends of Anaho.  As we talked, we could
see, through the landward door, another lady of the household at her toilet under the green
trees; who presently, when her hair was arranged, and her hat wreathed with flowers, appeared
upon the back verandah with gracious salutations.

Vaekehu is very deaf; 'merci' is her only word of French; and I do not know that she seemed
clever.  An exquisite, kind refinement, with a shade of quietism, gathered perhaps from the
nuns, was what chiefly struck us.  Or rather, upon that first occasion, we were conscious of
a sense as of district-visiting on our part, and reduced evangelical gentility on the part
of our hostess.  The other impression followed after she was more at ease, and came with Stanislao
and his little girl to dine on board the Casco.  She had dressed for the occasion:  wore white,
which very well became her strong brown face; and sat among us, eating or smoking her cigarette,
quite cut off from all society, or only now and then included through the intermediary of her
son.  It was a position that might have been ridiculous, and she made it ornamental; making
believe to hear and to be entertained; her face, whenever she met our eyes, lighting with the
smile of good society; her contributions to the talk, when she made any, and that was seldom,
always complimentary and pleasing.  No attention was paid to the child, for instance, but what
she remarked and thanked us for.  Her parting with each, when she came to leave, was gracious
and pretty, as had been every step of her behaviour.  When Mrs. Stevenson held out her hand
to say good-bye, Vaekehu took it, held it, and a moment smiled upon her; dropped it, and then,
as upon a kindly after-thought, and with a sort of warmth of condescension, held out both hands
and kissed my wife upon both cheeks.  Given the same relation of years and of rank, the thing
would have been so done on the boards of the Comedie Francaise; just so might Madame Brohan
have warmed and condescended to Madame Broisat in the Marquis de Villemer.  It was my part
to accompany our guests ashore:  when I kissed the little girl good-bye at the pier steps,
Vaekehu gave a cry of gratification, reached down her hand into the boat, took mine, and pressed
it with that flattering softness which seems the coquetry of the old lady in every quarter
of the earth.  The next moment she had taken Stanislao's arm, and they moved off along the
pier in the moonlight, leaving me bewildered.  This was a queen of cannibals; she was tattooed
from hand to foot, and perhaps the greatest masterpiece of that art now extant, so that a while
ago, before she was grown prim, her leg was one of the sights of Tai-o- hae; she had been passed
from chief to chief; she had been fought for and taken in war; perhaps, being so great a lady,
she had sat on the high place, and throned it there, alone of her sex, while the drums were
going twenty strong and the priests carried up the blood-stained baskets of long-pig.  And
now behold her, out of that past of violence and sickening feasts, step forth, in her age,
a quiet, smooth, elaborate old lady, such as you might find at home (mittened also, but not
often so well-mannered) in a score of country houses.  Only Vaekehu's mittens were of dye,
not of silk; and they had been paid for, not in money, but the cooked flesh of men.  It came
in my mind with a clap, what she could think of it herself, and whether at heart, perhaps,
she might not regret and aspire after the barbarous and stirring past.  But when I asked Stanislao--'Ah!'
said he, 'she is content; she is religious, she passes all her days with the sisters.'

Stanislao (Stanislaos, with the final consonant evaded after the Polynesian habit) was sent
by Bishop Dordillon to South America, and there educated by the fathers.  His French is fluent,
his talk sensible and spirited, and in his capacity of ganger-in-chief, he is of excellent
service to the French.  With the prestige of his name and family, and with the stick when needful,
he keeps the natives working and the roads passable.  Without Stanislao and the convicts, I
am in doubt what would become of the present regimen in Nuka-hiva; whether the highways might
not be suffered to close up, the pier to wash away, and the Residency to fall piecemeal about
the ears of impotent officials.  And yet though the hereditary favourer, and one of the chief
props of French authority, he has always an eye upon the past.  He showed me where the old
public place had stood, still to be traced by random piles of stone; told me how great and
fine it was, and surrounded on all sides by populous houses, whence, at the beating of the
drums, the folk crowded to make holiday.  The drum-beat of the Polynesian has a strange and
gloomy stimulation for the nerves of all.  White persons feel it--at these precipitate sounds
their hearts beat faster; and, according to old residents, its effect on the natives was extreme.
Bishop Dordillon might entreat; Temoana himself command and threaten; at the note of the drum
wild instincts triumphed.  And now it might beat upon these ruins, and who should assemble?
The houses are down, the people dead, their lineage extinct; and the sweepings and fugitives
of distant bays and islands encamp upon their graves.  The decline of the dance Stanislao especially
laments.  'Chaque pays a ses coutumes,' said he; but in the report of any gendarme, perhaps
corruptly eager to increase the number of delits and the instruments of his own power, custom
after custom is placed on the expurgatorial index.  'Tenez, une danse qui n'est pas permise,'
said Stanislao:  'je ne sais pas pourquoi, elle est tres jolie, elle va comme ca,' and sticking
his umbrella upright in the road, he sketched the steps and gestures. All his criticisms of
the present, all his regrets for the past, struck me as temperate and sensible.  The short
term of office of the Resident he thought the chief defect of the administration; that officer
having scarce begun to be efficient ere he was recalled.  I thought I gathered, too, that he
regarded with some fear the coming change from a naval to a civil governor.  I am sure at least
that I regard it so myself; for the civil servants of France have never appeared to any foreigner
as at all the flower of their country, while her naval officers may challenge competition with
the world.  In all his talk, Stanislao was particular to speak of his own country as a land
of savages; and when he stated an opinion of his own, it was with some apologetic preface,
alleging that he was 'a savage who had travelled.'  There was a deal, in this elaborate modesty,
of honest pride.  Yet there was something in the precaution that saddened me; and I could not
but fear he was only forestalling a taunt that he had heard too often.

I recall with interest two interviews with Stanislao.  The first was a certain afternoon of
tropic rain, which we passed together in the verandah of the club; talking at times with heightened
voices as the showers redoubled overhead, passing at times into the billiard-room, to consult,
in the dim, cloudy daylight, that map of the world which forms its chief adornment.  He was
naturally ignorant of English history, so that I had much of news to communicate.  The story
of Gordon I told him in full, and many episodes of the Indian Mutiny, Lucknow, the second battle
of Cawn- pore, the relief of Arrah, the death of poor Spottis-woode, and Sir Hugh Rose's hotspur,
midland campaign.  He was intent to hear; his brown face, strongly marked with small-pox, kindled
and changed with each vicissitude.  His eyes glowed with the reflected light of battle; his
questions were many and intelligent, and it was chiefly these that sent us so often to the
map.  But it is of our parting that I keep the strongest sense.  We were to sail on the morrow,
and the night had fallen, dark, gusty, and rainy, when we stumbled up the hill to bid farewell
to Stanislao.  He had already loaded us with gifts; but more were waiting.  We sat about the
table over cigars and green cocoa-nuts; claps of wind blew through the house and extinguished
the lamp, which was always instantly relighted with a single match; and these recurrent intervals
of darkness were felt as a relief.  For there was something painful and embarrassing in the
kindness of that separation.  'Ah, vous devriez rester ici, mon cher ami!' cried Stanislao.
'Vous etes les gens qu'il faut pour les Kanaques; vous etes doux, vous et votre famille; vous
seriez obeis dans toutes les iles.'  We had been civil; not always that, my conscience told
me, and never anything beyond; and all this to-do is a measure, not of our considerateness,
but of the want of it in others.  The rest of the evening, on to Vaekehu's and back as far
as to the pier, Stanislao walked with my arm and sheltered me with his umbrella; and after
the boat had put off, we could still distinguish, in the murky darkness, his gestures of farewell.
His words, if there were any, were drowned by the rain and the loud surf.

I have mentioned presents, a vexed question in the South Seas; and one which well illustrates
the common, ignorant habit of regarding races in a lump.  In many quarters the Polynesian gives
only to receive.  I have visited islands where the population mobbed me for all the world like
dogs after the waggon of cat's-meat; and where the frequent proposition, 'You my pleni (friend),'
or (with more of pathos) 'You all 'e same my father,' must be received with hearty laughter
and a shout.  And perhaps everywhere, among the greedy and rapacious, a gift is regarded as
a sprat to catch a whale.  It is the habit to give gifts and to receive returns, and such characters,
complying with the custom, will look to it nearly that they do not lose.  But for persons of
a different stamp the statement must be reversed.  The shabby Polynesian is anxious till he
has received the return gift; the generous is uneasy until he has made it.  The first is disappointed
if you have not given more than he; the second is miserable if he thinks he has given less
than you.  This is my experience; if it clash with that of others, I pity their fortune, and
praise mine:  the circumstances cannot change what I have seen, nor lessen what I have received.
And indeed I find that those who oppose me often argue from a ground of singular presumptions;
comparing Polynesians with an ideal person, compact of generosity and gratitude, whom I never
had the pleasure of encountering; and forgetting that what is almost poverty to us is wealth
almost unthinkable to them.  I will give one instance:  I chanced to speak with consideration
of these gifts of Stanislao's with a certain clever man, a great hater and contemner of Kanakas.
'Well! what were they?' he cried.  'A pack of old men's beards. Trash!'  And the same gentleman,
some half an hour later, being upon a different train of thought, dwelt at length on the esteem
in which the Marquesans held that sort of property, how they preferred it to all others except
land, and what fancy prices it would fetch. Using his own figures, I computed that, in this
commodity alone, the gifts of Vaekehu and Stanislao represented between two and three hundred
dollars; and the queen's official salary is of two hundred and forty in the year.

But generosity on the one hand, and conspicuous meanness on the other, are in the South Seas,
as at home, the exception.  It is neither with any hope of gain, nor with any lively wish to
please, that the ordinary Polynesian chooses and presents his gifts.  A plain social duty lies
before him, which he performs correctly, but without the least enthusiasm.  And we shall best
understand his attitude of mind, if we examine our own to the cognate absurdity of marriage
presents.  There we give without any special thought of a return; yet if the circumstance arise,
and the return be withheld, we shall judge ourselves insulted.  We give them usually without
affection, and almost never with a genuine desire to please; and our gift is rather a mark
of our own status than a measure of our love to the recipients.  So in a great measure and
with the common run of the Polynesians; their gifts are formal; they imply no more than social
recognition; and they are made and reciprocated, as we pay and return our morning visits. 
And the practice of marking and measuring events and sentiments by presents is universal in
the island world.  A gift plays with them the part of stamp and seal; and has entered profoundly
into the mind of islanders.  Peace and war, marriage, adoption and naturalisation, are celebrated
or declared by the acceptance or the refusal of gifts; and it is as natural for the islander
to bring a gift as for us to carry a card- case.

CHAPTER X--A PORTRAIT AND A STORY

I have had occasion several times to name the late bishop, Father Dordillon, 'Monseigneur,'
as he is still almost universally called, Vicar-Apostolic of the Marquesas and Bishop of Cambysopolis
in partibus.  Everywhere in the islands, among all classes and races, this fine, old, kindly,
cheerful fellow is remembered with affection and respect.  His influence with the natives was
paramount.  They reckoned him the highest of men--higher than an admiral; brought him their
money to keep; took his advice upon their purchases; nor would they plant trees upon their
own land till they had the approval of the father of the islands.  During the time of the French
exodus he singly represented Europe, living in the Residency, and ruling by the hand of Temoana.
The first roads were made under his auspices and by his persuasion.  The old road between Hatiheu
and Anaho was got under way from either side on the ground that it would be pleasant for an
evening promenade, and brought to completion by working on the rivalry of the two villages.
The priest would boast in Hatiheu of the progress made in Anaho, and he would tell the folk
of Anaho, 'If you don't take care, your neighbours will be over the hill before you are at
the top.'  It could not be so done to-day; it could then; death, opium, and depopulation had
not gone so far; and the people of Hatiheu, I was told, still vied with each other in fine
attire, and used to go out by families, in the cool of the evening, boat-sailing and racing
in the bay.  There seems some truth at least in the common view, that this joint reign of Temoana
and the bishop was the last and brief golden age of the Marquesas.  But the civil power returned,
the mission was packed out of the Residency at twenty- four hours' notice, new methods supervened,
and the golden age (whatever it quite was) came to an end.  It is the strongest proof of Father
Dordillon's prestige that it survived, seemingly without loss, this hasty deposition.

His method with the natives was extremely mild.  Among these barbarous children he still played
the part of the smiling father; and he was careful to observe, in all indifferent matters,
the Marquesan etiquette.  Thus, in the singular system of artificial kinship, the bishop had
been adopted by Vaekehu as a grandson; Miss Fisher, of Hatiheu, as a daughter.  From that day,
Monseigneur never addressed the young lady except as his mother, and closed his letters with
the formalities of a dutiful son.  With Europeans he could be strict, even to the extent of
harshness.  He made no distinction against heretics, with whom he was on friendly terms; but
the rules of his own Church he would see observed; and once at least he had a white man clapped
in jail for the desecration of a saint's day.  But even this rigour, so intolerable to laymen,
so irritating to Protestants, could not shake his popularity.  We shall best conceive him by
examples nearer home; we may all have known some divine of the old school in Scotland, a literal
Sabbatarian, a stickler for the letter of the law, who was yet in private modest, innocent,
genial and mirthful.  Much such a man, it seems, was Father Dordillon.  And his popularity
bore a test yet stronger.  He had the name, and probably deserved it, of a shrewd man in business
and one that made the mission pay.  Nothing so much stirs up resentment as the inmixture in
commerce of religious bodies; but even rival traders spoke well of Monseigneur.

His character is best portrayed in the story of the days of his decline.  A time came when,
from the failure of sight, he must desist from his literary labours:  his Marquesan hymns,
grammars, and dictionaries; his scientific papers, lives of saints, and devotional poetry.
He cast about for a new interest:  pitched on gardening, and was to be seen all day, with spade
and water-pot, in his childlike eagerness, actually running between the borders. Another step
of decay, and he must leave his garden also. Instantly a new occupation was devised, and he
sat in the mission cutting paper flowers and wreaths.  His diocese was not great enough for
his activity; the churches of the Marquesas were papered with his handiwork, and still he must
be making more.  'Ah,' said he, smiling, 'when I am dead what a fine time you will have clearing
out my trash!'  He had been dead about six months; but I was pleased to see some of his trophies
still exposed, and looked upon them with a smile:  the tribute (if I have read his cheerful
character aright) which he would have preferred to any useless tears.  Disease continued progressively
to disable him; he who had clambered so stalwartly over the rude rocks of the Marquesas, bringing
peace to warfaring clans, was for some time carried in a chair between the mission and the
church, and at last confined to bed, impotent with dropsy, and tormented with bed-sores and
sciatica.  Here he lay two months without complaint; and on the 11th January 1888, in the seventy-ninth
year of his life, and the thirty-fourth of his labours in the Marquesas, passed away.

Those who have a taste for hearing missions, Protestant or Catholic, decried, must seek their
pleasure elsewhere than in my pages.  Whether Catholic or Protestant, with all their gross
blots, with all their deficiency of candour, of humour, and of common sense, the missionaries
are the best and the most useful whites in the Pacific.  This is a subject which will follow
us throughout; but there is one part of it that may conveniently be treated here. The married
and the celibate missionary, each has his particular advantage and defect.  The married missionary,
taking him at the best, may offer to the native what he is much in want of--a higher picture
of domestic life; but the woman at his elbow tends to keep him in touch with Europe and out
of touch with Polynesia, and to perpetuate, and even to ingrain, parochial decencies far best
forgotten.  The celibate missionary, on the other hand, and whether at best or worst, falls
readily into native ways of life; to which he adds too commonly what is either a mark of celibate
man at large, or an inheritance from mediaeval saints--I mean slovenly habits and an unclean
person.  There are, of course, degrees in this; and the sister (of course, and all honour to
her) is as fresh as a lady at a ball.  For the diet there is nothing to be said--it must amaze
and shock the Polynesian--but for the adoption of native habits there is much.  'Chaque pays
a ses coutumes,' said Stanislao; these it is the missionary's delicate task to modify; and
the more he can do so from within, and from a native standpoint, the better he will do his
work; and here I think the Catholics have sometimes the advantage; in the Vicariate of Dordillon,
I am sure they had it.  I have heard the bishop blamed for his indulgence to the natives, and
above all because he did not rage with sufficient energy against cannibalism.  It was a part
of his policy to live among the natives like an elder brother; to follow where he could; to
lead where it was necessary; never to drive; and to encourage the growth of new habits, instead
of violently rooting up the old.  And it might be better, in the long-run, if this policy were
always followed.

It might be supposed that native missionaries would prove more indulgent, but the reverse is
found to be the case.  The new broom sweeps clean; and the white missionary of to-day is often
embarrassed by the bigotry of his native coadjutor.  What else should we expect?  On some islands,
sorcery, polygamy, human sacrifice, and tobacco-smoking have been prohibited, the dress of
the native has been modified, and himself warned in strong terms against rival sects of Christianity;
all by the same man, at the same period of time, and with the like authority.  By what criterion
is the convert to distinguish the essential from the unessential?  He swallows the nostrum
whole; there has been no play of mind, no instruction, and, except for some brute utility in
the prohibitions, no advance.  To call things by their proper names, this is teaching superstition.
It is unfortunate to use the word; so few people have read history, and so many have dipped
into little atheistic manuals, that the majority will rush to a conclusion, and suppose the
labour lost.  And far from that:  These semi-spontaneous superstitions, varying with the sect
of the original evangelist and the customs of the island, are found in practice to be highly
fructifying; and in particular those who have learned and who go forth again to teach them
offer an example to the world.  The best specimen of the Christian hero that I ever met was
one of these native missionaries.  He had saved two lives at the risk of his own; like Nathan,
he had bearded a tyrant in his hour of blood; when a whole white population fled, he alone
stood to his duty; and his behaviour under domestic sorrow with which the public has no concern
filled the beholder with sympathy and admiration.  A poor little smiling laborious man he looked;
and you would have thought he had nothing in him but that of which indeed he had too much--facile
good-nature.

It chances that the only rivals of Monseigneur and his mission in the Marquesas were certain
of these brown-skinned evangelists, natives from Hawaii.  I know not what they thought of Father
Dordillon:  they are the only class I did not question; but I suspect the prelate to have regarded
them askance, for he was eminently human.  During my stay at Tai-o-hae, the time of the yearly
holiday came round at the girls' school; and a whole fleet of whale-boats came from Ua-pu to
take the daughters of that island home.  On board of these was Kauwealoha, one of the pastors,
a fine, rugged old gentleman, of that leonine type so common in Hawaii.  He paid me a visit
in the Casco, and there entertained me with a tale of one of his colleagues, Kekela, a missionary
in the great cannibal isle of Hiva-oa.  It appears that shortly after a kidnapping visit from
a Peruvian slaver, the boats of an American whaler put into a bay upon that island, were attacked,
and made their escape with difficulty, leaving their mate, a Mr. Whalon, in the hands of the
natives.  The captive, with his arms bound behind his back, was cast into a house; and the
chief announced the capture to Kekela.  And here I begin to follow the version of Kauwealoha;
it is a good specimen of Kanaka English; and the reader is to conceive it delivered with violent
emphasis and speaking pantomime.

'"I got 'Melican mate," the chief he say.  "What you go do 'Melican mate?" Kekela he say. 
"I go make fire, I go kill, I go eat him," he say; "you come to-mollow eat piece."  "I no WANT
eat 'Melican mate!" Kekela he say; "why you want?"  "This bad shippee, this slave shippee,"
the chief he say.  "One time a shippee he come from Pelu, he take away plenty Kanaka, he take
away my son.  'Melican mate he bad man.  I go eat him; you eat piece."  "I no WANT eat 'Melican
mate!" Kekela he say; and he CLY--all night he cly!  To- mollow Kekela he get up, he put on
blackee coat, he go see chief; he see Missa Whela, him hand tie' like this.  (Pantomime.) 
Kekela he cly.  He say chief:- "Chief, you like things of mine? you like whale-boat?"  "Yes,"
he say.  "You like file-a'm?" (fire-arms). "Yes," he say.  "You like blackee coat?"  "Yes,"
he say.  Kekela he take Missa Whela by he shoul'a' (shoulder), he take him light out house;
he give chief he whale-boat, he file-a'm, he blackee coat. He take Missa Whela he house, make
him sit down with he wife and chil'en.  Missa Whela all-the-same pelison (prison); he wife,
he chil'en in Amelica; he cly--O, he cly.  Kekela he solly.  One day Kekela he see ship. (Pantomime.)
He say Missa Whela, "Ma' Whala?" Missa Whela he say, "Yes."  Kanaka they begin go down beach.
Kekela he get eleven Kanaka, get oa' (oars), get evely thing.  He say Missa Whela, "Now you
go quick."  They jump in whale-boat. "Now you low!"  Kekela he say:  "you low quick, quick!"
(Violent pantomime, and a change indicating that the narrator has left the boat and returned
to the beach.)  All the Kanaka they say, "How! 'Melican mate he go away?"--jump in boat; low
afta.  (Violent pantomime, and change again to boat.)  Kekela he say, "Low quick!"'

Here I think Kauwealoha's pantomime had confused me; I have no more of his ipsissima verba;
and can but add, in my own less spirited manner, that the ship was reached, Mr. Whalon taken
aboard, and Kekela returned to his charge among the cannibals.  But how unjust it is to repeat
the stumblings of a foreigner in a language only partly acquired!  A thoughtless reader might
conceive Kauwealoha and his colleague to be a species of amicable baboon; but I have here the
anti-dote.  In return for his act of gallant charity, Kekela was presented by the American
Government with a sum of money, and by President Lincoln personally with a gold watch.  From
his letter of thanks, written in his own tongue, I give the following extract.  I do not envy
the man who can read it without emotion.

'When I saw one of your countrymen, a citizen of your great nation, ill-treated, and about
to be baked and eaten, as a pig is eaten, I ran to save him, full of pity and grief at the
evil deed of these benighted people.  I gave my boat for the stranger's life.  This boat came
from James Hunnewell, a gift of friendship.  It became the ransom of this countryman of yours,
that he might not be eaten by the savages who knew not Jehovah.  This was Mr. Whalon, and the
date, Jan. 14, 1864.

As to this friendly deed of mine in saving Mr. Whalon, its seed came from your great land,
and was brought by certain of your countrymen, who had received the love of God.  It was planted
in Hawaii, and I brought it to plant in this land and in these dark regions, that they might
receive the root of all that is good and true, which is LOVE.

'1. Love to Jehovah.

'2. Love to self.

'3. Love to our neighbour.

'If a man have a sufficiency of these three, he is good and holy, like his God, Jehovah, in
his triune character (Father, Son, and Holy Ghost), one-three, three-one.  If he have two and
wants one, it is not well; and if he have one and wants two, indeed, is not well; but if he
cherishes all three, then is he holy, indeed, after the manner of the Bible.

'This is a great thing for your great nation to boast of, before all the nations of the earth.
From your great land a most precious seed was brought to the land of darkness.  It was planted
here, not by means of guns and men-of-war and threatening.  It was planted by means of the
ignorant, the neglected, the despised.  Such was the introduction of the word of the Almighty
God into this group of Nuuhiwa.  Great is my debt to Americans, who have taught me all things
pertaining to this life and to that which is to come.

'How shall I repay your great kindness to me?  Thus David asked of Jehovah, and thus I ask
of you, the President of the United States. This is my only payment--that which I have received
of the Lord, love--(aloha).'

CHAPTER XI--LONG-PIG--A CANNIBAL HIGH PLACE

Nothing more strongly arouses our disgust than cannibalism, nothing so surely unmortars a society;
nothing, we might plausibly argue, will so harden and degrade the minds of those that practise
it. And yet we ourselves make much the same appearance in the eyes of the Buddhist and the
vegetarian.  We consume the carcasses of creatures of like appetites, passions, and organs
with ourselves; we feed on babes, though not our own; and the slaughter-house resounds daily
with screams of pain and fear.  We distinguish, indeed; but the unwillingness of many nations
to eat the dog, an animal with whom we live on terms of the next intimacy, shows how precariously
the distinction is grounded.  The pig is the main element of animal food among the islands;
and I had many occasions, my mind being quickened by my cannibal surroundings, to observe his
character and the manner of his death.  Many islanders live with their pigs as we do with our
dogs; both crowd around the hearth with equal freedom; and the island pig is a fellow of activity,
enterprise, and sense.  He husks his own cocoa-nuts, and (I am told) rolls them into the sun
to burst; he is the terror of the shepherd.  Mrs. Stevenson, senior, has seen one fleeing to
the woods with a lamb in his mouth; and I saw another come rapidly (and erroneously) to the
conclusion that the Casco was going down, and swim through the flush water to the rail in search
of an escape. It was told us in childhood that pigs cannot swim; I have known one to leap overboard,
swim five hundred yards to shore, and return to the house of his original owner.  I was once,
at Tautira, a pig- master on a considerable scale; at first, in my pen, the utmost good feeling
prevailed; a little sow with a belly-ache came and appealed to us for help in the manner of
a child; and there was one shapely black boar, whom we called Catholicus, for he was a particular
present from the Catholics of the village, and who early displayed the marks of courage and
friendliness; no other animal, whether dog or pig, was suffered to approach him at his food,
and for human beings he showed a full measure of that toadying fondness so common in the lower
animals, and possibly their chief title to the name.  One day, on visiting my piggery, I was
amazed to see Catholicus draw back from my approach with cries of terror; and if I was amazed
at the change, I was truly embarrassed when I learnt its reason.  One of the pigs had been
that morning killed; Catholicus had seen the murder, he had discovered he was dwelling in the
shambles, and from that time his confidence and his delight in life were ended.  We still reserved
him a long while, but he could not endure the sight of any two-legged creature, nor could we,
under the circumstances, encounter his eye without confusion. I have assisted besides, by the
ear, at the act of butchery itself; the victim's cries of pain I think I could have borne,
but the execution was mismanaged, and his expression of terror was contagious:  that small
heart moved to the same tune with ours. Upon such 'dread foundations' the life of the European
reposes, and yet the European is among the less cruel of races.  The paraphernalia of murder,
the preparatory brutalities of his existence, are all hid away; an extreme sensibility reigns
upon the surface; and ladies will faint at the recital of one tithe of what they daily expect
of their butchers.  Some will be even crying out upon me in their hearts for the coarseness
of this paragraph.  And so with the island cannibals.  They were not cruel; apart from this
custom, they are a race of the most kindly; rightly speaking, to cut a man's flesh after he
is dead is far less hateful than to oppress him whilst he lives; and even the victims of their
appetite were gently used in life and suddenly and painlessly despatched at last.  In island
circles of refinement it was doubtless thought bad taste to expatiate on what was ugly in the
practice.

Cannibalism is traced from end to end of the Pacific, from the Marquesas to New Guinea, from
New Zealand to Hawaii, here in the lively haunt of its exercise, there by scanty but significant
survivals.  Hawaii is the most doubtful.  We find cannibalism chronicled in Hawaii, only in
the history of a single war, where it seems to have been thought exception, as in the case
of mountain outlaws, such as fell by the hand of Theseus.  In Tahiti, a single circumstance
survived, but that appears conclusive.  In historic times, when human oblation was made in
the marae, the eyes of the victim were formally offered to the chief:  a delicacy to the leading
guest.  All Melanesia appears tainted.  In Micronesia, in the Marshalls, with which my acquaintance
is no more than that of a tourist, I could find no trace at all; and even in the Gilbert zone
I long looked and asked in vain.  I was told tales indeed of men who had been eaten in a famine;
but these were nothing to my purpose, for the same thing is done under the same stress by all
kindreds and generations of men.  At last, in some manuscript notes of Dr. Turner's, which
I was allowed to consult at Malua, I came on one damning evidence:  on the island of Onoatoa
the punishment for theft was to be killed and eaten.  How shall we account for the universality
of the practice over so vast an area, among people of such varying civilisation, and, with
whatever intermixture, of such different blood?  What circumstance is common to them all, but
that they lived on islands destitute, or very nearly so, of animal food? I can never find it
in my appetite that man was meant to live on vegetables only.  When our stores ran low among
the islands, I grew to weary for the recurrent day when economy allowed us to open another
tin of miserable mutton.  And in at least one ocean language, a particular word denotes that
a man is 'hungry for fish,' having reached that stage when vegetables can no longer satisfy,
and his soul, like those of the Hebrews in the desert, begins to lust after flesh-pots.  Add
to this the evidences of over-population and imminent famine already adduced, and I think we
see some ground of indulgence for the island cannibal.

It is right to look at both sides of any question; but I am far from making the apology of
this worse than bestial vice.  The higher Polynesian races, such as the Tahitians, Hawaiians,
and Samoans, had one and all outgrown, and some of them had in part forgot, the practice, before
Cook or Bougainville had shown a top- sail in their waters.  It lingered only in some low islands
where life was difficult to maintain, and among inveterate savages like the New-Zealanders
or the Marquesans.  The Marquesans intertwined man-eating with the whole texture of their lives;
long-pig was in a sense their currency and sacrament; it formed the hire of the artist, illustrated
public events, and was the occasion and attraction of a feast.  To-day they are paying the
penalty of this bloody commixture.  The civil power, in its crusade against man- eating, has
had to examine one after another all Marquesan arts and pleasures, has found them one after
another tainted with a cannibal element, and one after another has placed them on the proscript
list.  Their art of tattooing stood by itself, the execution exquisite, the designs most beautiful
and intricate; nothing more handsomely sets off a handsome man; it may cost some pain in the
beginning, but I doubt if it be near so painful in the long-run, and I am sure it is far more
becoming than the ignoble European practice of tight-lacing among women.  And now it has been
found needful to forbid the art.  Their songs and dances were numerous (and the law has had
to abolish them by the dozen).  They now face empty-handed the tedium of their uneventful days;
and who shall pity them?  The least rigorous will say that they were justly served.

Death alone could not satisfy Marquesan vengeance:  the flesh must be eaten.  The chief who
seized Mr. Whalon preferred to eat him; and he thought he had justified the wish when he explained
it was a vengeance.  Two or three years ago, the people of a valley seized and slew a wretch
who had offended them.  His offence, it is to be supposed, was dire; they could not bear to
leave their vengeance incomplete, and, under the eyes of the French, they did not dare to hold
a public festival.  The body was accordingly divided; and every man retired to his own house
to consummate the rite in secret, carrying his proportion of the dreadful meat in a Swedish
match-box.  The barbarous substance of the drama and the European properties employed offer
a seizing contrast to the imagination. Yet more striking is another incident of the very year
when I was there myself, 1888.  In the spring, a man and woman skulked about the school-house
in Hiva-oa till they found a particular child alone.  Him they approached with honeyed words
and carneying manners--'You are So-and-so, son of So-and-so?' they asked; and caressed and
beguiled him deeper in the woods.  Some instinct woke in the child's bosom, or some look betrayed
the horrid purpose of his deceivers.  He sought to break from them; he screamed; and they,
casting off the mask, seized him the more strongly and began to run.  His cries were heard;
his schoolmates, playing not far off, came running to the rescue; and the sinister couple fled
and vanished in the woods.  They were never identified; no prosecution followed; but it was
currently supposed they had some grudge against the boy's father, and designed to eat him in
revenge.  All over the islands, as at home among our own ancestors, it will be observed that
the avenger takes no particular heed to strike an individual.  A family, a class, a village,
a whole valley or island, a whole race of mankind, share equally the guilt of any member. 
So, in the above story, the son was to pay the penalty for his father; so Mr. Whalon, the mate
of an American whaler, was to bleed and be eaten for the misdeeds of a Peruvian slaver.  I
am reminded of an incident in Jaluit in the Marshall group, which was told me by an eye-witness,
and which I tell here again for the strangeness of the scene.  Two men had awakened the animosity
of the Jaluit chiefs; and it was their wives who were selected to be punished.  A single native
served as executioner.  Early in the morning, in the face of a large concourse of spectators,
he waded out upon the reef between his victims.  These neither complained nor resisted; accompanied
their destroyer patiently; stooped down, when they had waded deep enough, at his command; and
he (laying one hand upon the shoulders of each) held them under water till they drowned.  Doubtless,
although my informant did not tell me so, their families would be lamenting aloud upon the beach.

It was from Hatiheu that I paid my first visit to a cannibal high place.

The day was sultry and clouded.  Drenching tropical showers succeeded bursts of sweltering
sunshine.  The green pathway of the road wound steeply upward.  As we went, our little schoolboy
guide a little ahead of us, Father Simeon had his portfolio in his hand, and named the trees
for me, and read aloud from his notes the abstract of their virtues.  Presently the road, mounting,
showed us the vale of Hatiheu, on a larger scale; and the priest, with occasional reference
to our guide, pointed out the boundaries and told me the names of the larger tribes that lived
at perpetual war in the old days:  one on the north-east, one along the beach, one behind upon
the mountain.  With a survivor of this latter clan Father Simeon had spoken; until the pacification
he had never been to the sea's edge, nor, if I remember exactly, eaten of sea-fish. Each in
its own district, the septs lived cantoned and beleaguered. One step without the boundaries
was to affront death.  If famine came, the men must out to the woods to gather chestnuts and
small fruits; even as to this day, if the parents are backward in their weekly doles, school
must be broken up and the scholars sent foraging.  But in the old days, when there was trouble
in one clan, there would be activity in all its neighbours; the woods would be laid full of
ambushes; and he who went after vegetables for himself might remain to be a joint for his hereditary
foes.  Nor was the pointed occasion needful.  A dozen different natural signs and social junctures
called this people to the war-path and the cannibal hunt.  Let one of chiefly rank have finished
his tattooing, the wife of one be near upon her time, two of the debauching streams have deviated
nearer on the beach of Hatiheu, a certain bird have been heard to sing, a certain ominous formation
of cloud observed above the northern sea; and instantly the arms were oiled, and the man-hunters
swarmed into the wood to lay their fratricidal ambuscades.  It appears besides that occasionally,
perhaps in famine, the priest would shut himself in his house, where he lay for a stated period
like a person dead.  When he came forth it was to run for three days through the territory
of the clan, naked and starving, and to sleep at night alone in the high place.  It was now
the turn of the others to keep the house, for to encounter the priest upon his rounds was death.
On the eve of the fourth day the time of the running was over; the priest returned to his roof,
the laymen came forth, and in the morning the number of the victims was announced.  I have
this tale of the priest on one authority--I think a good one,--but I set it down with diffidence.
The particulars are so striking that, had they been true, I almost think I must have heard
them oftener referred to.  Upon one point there seems to be no question:  that the feast was
sometimes furnished from within the clan.  In times of scarcity, all who were not protected
by their family connections--in the Highland expression, all the commons of the clan--had cause
to tremble.  It was vain to resist, it was useless to flee.  They were begirt upon all hands
by cannibals; and the oven was ready to smoke for them abroad in the country of their foes,
or at home in the valley of their fathers.

At a certain corner of the road our scholar-guide struck off to his left into the twilight
of the forest.  We were now on one of the ancient native roads, plunged in a high vault of
wood, and clambering, it seemed, at random over boulders and dead trees; but the lad wound
in and out and up and down without a check, for these paths are to the natives as marked as
the king's highway is to us; insomuch that, in the days of the man-hunt, it was their labour
rather to block and deface than to improve them.  In the crypt of the wood the air was clammy
and hot and cold; overhead, upon the leaves, the tropical rain uproariously poured, but only
here and there, as through holes in a leaky roof, a single drop would fall, and make a spot
upon my mackintosh.  Presently the huge trunk of a banyan hove in sight, standing upon what
seemed the ruins of an ancient fort; and our guide, halting and holding forth his arm, announced
that we had reached the paepae tapu.

Paepae signifies a floor or platform such as a native house is built on; and even such a paepae--a
paepae hae--may be called a paepae tapu in a lesser sense when it is deserted and becomes the
haunt of spirits; but the public high place, such as I was now treading, was a thing on a great
scale.  As far as my eyes could pierce through the dark undergrowth, the floor of the forest
was all paved.  Three tiers of terrace ran on the slope of the hill; in front, a crumbling
parapet contained the main arena; and the pavement of that was pierced and parcelled out with
several wells and small enclosures.  No trace remained of any superstructure, and the scheme
of the amphitheatre was difficult to seize.  I visited another in Hiva-oa, smaller but more
perfect, where it was easy to follow rows of benches, and to distinguish isolated seats of
honour for eminent persons; and where, on the upper platform, a single joist of the temple
or dead-house still remained, its uprights richly carved.  In the old days the high place was
sedulously tended.  No tree except the sacred banyan was suffered to encroach upon its grades,
no dead leaf to rot upon the pavement.  The stones were smoothly set, and I am told they were
kept bright with oil. On all sides the guardians lay encamped in their subsidiary huts to watch
and cleanse it.  No other foot of man was suffered to draw near; only the priest, in the days
of his running, came there to sleep--perhaps to dream of his ungodly errand; but, in the time
of the feast, the clan trooped to the high place in a body, and each had his appointed seat.
There were places for the chiefs, the drummers, the dancers, the women, and the priests.  The
drums-- perhaps twenty strong, and some of them twelve feet high-- continuously throbbed in
time.  In time the singers kept up their long-drawn, lugubrious, ululating song; in time, too,
the dancers, tricked out in singular finery, stepped, leaped, swayed, and gesticulated--their
plumed fingers fluttering in the air like butterflies.  The sense of time, in all these ocean
races, is extremely perfect; and I conceive in such a festival that almost every sound and
movement fell in one.  So much the more unanimously must have grown the agitation of the feasters;
so much the more wild must have been the scene to any European who could have beheld them there,
in the strong sun and the strong shadow of the banyan, rubbed with saffron to throw in a more
high relief the arabesque of the tattoo; the women bleached by days of confinement to a complexion
almost European; the chiefs crowned with silver plumes of old men's beards and girt with kirtles
of the hair of dead women.  All manner of island food was meanwhile spread for the women and
the commons; and, for those who were privileged to eat of it, there were carried up to the
dead-house the baskets of long- pig.  It is told that the feasts were long kept up; the people
came from them brutishly exhausted with debauchery, and the chiefs heavy with their beastly
food.  There are certain sentiments which we call emphatically human--denying the honour of
that name to those who lack them.  In such feasts--particularly where the victim has been slain
at home, and men banqueted on the poor clay of a comrade with whom they had played in infancy,
or a woman whose favours they had shared--the whole body of these sentiments is outraged. 
To consider it too closely is to understand, if not to excuse, the fervours of self-righteous
old ship-captains, who would man their guns, and open fire in passing, on a cannibal island.

And yet it was strange.  There, upon the spot, as I stood under the high, dripping vault of
the forest, with the young priest on the one hand, in his kilted gown, and the bright-eyed
Marquesan schoolboy on the other, the whole business appeared infinitely distant, and fallen
in the cold perspective and dry light of history.  The bearing of the priest, perhaps, affected
me. He smiled; he jested with the boy, the heir both of these feasters and their meat; he clapped
his hands, and gave me a stave of one of the old, ill-omened choruses.  Centuries might have
come and gone since this slimy theatre was last in operation; and I beheld the place with no
more emotion than I might have felt in visiting Stonehenge. In Hiva-oa, as I began to appreciate
that the thing was still living and latent about my footsteps, and that it was still within
the bounds of possibility that I might hear the cry of the trapped victim, my historic attitude
entirely failed, and I was sensible of some repugnance for the natives.  But here, too, the
priests maintained their jocular attitude:  rallying the cannibals as upon an eccentricity
rather absurd than horrible; seeking, I should say, to shame them from the practice by good-natured
ridicule, as we shame a child from stealing sugar.  We may here recognise the temperate and
sagacious mind of Bishop Dordillon.

CHAPTER XII--THE STORY OF A PLANTATION

Taahauku, on the south-westerly coast of the island of Hiva-oa-- Tahuku, say the slovenly whites--may
be called the port of Atuona. It is a narrow and small anchorage, set between low cliffy points,
and opening above upon a woody valley:  a little French fort, now disused and deserted, overhangs
the valley and the inlet.  Atuona itself, at the head of the next bay, is framed in a theatre
of mountains, which dominate the more immediate settling of Taahauku and give the salient character
of the scene.  They are reckoned at no higher than four thousand feet; but Tahiti with eight
thousand, and Hawaii with fifteen, can offer no such picture of abrupt, melancholy alps.  In
the morning, when the sun falls directly on their front, they stand like a vast wall:  green
to the summit, if by any chance the summit should be clear--water-courses here and there delineated
on their face, as narrow as cracks.  Towards afternoon, the light falls more obliquely, and
the sculpture of the range comes in relief, huge gorges sinking into shadow, huge, tortuous
buttresses standing edged with sun.  At all hours of the day they strike the eye with some
new beauty, and the mind with the same menacing gloom.

The mountains, dividing and deflecting the endless airy deluge of the Trade, are doubtless
answerable for the climate.  A strong draught of wind blew day and night over the anchorage.
Day and night the same fantastic and attenuated clouds fled across the heavens, the same dusky
cap of rain and vapour fell and rose on the mountain.  The land-breezes came very strong and
chill, and the sea, like the air, was in perpetual bustle.  The swell crowded into the narrow
anchorage like sheep into a fold; broke all along both sides, high on the one, low on the other;
kept a certain blowhole sounding and smoking like a cannon; and spent itself at last upon the
beach.

On the side away from Atuona, the sheltering promontory was a nursery of coco-trees.  Some
were mere infants, none had attained to any size, none had yet begun to shoot skyward with
that whip- like shaft of the mature palm.  In the young trees the colour alters with the age
and growth.  Now all is of a grass-like hue, infinitely dainty; next the rib grows golden,
the fronds remaining green as ferns; and then, as the trunk continues to mount and to assume
its final hue of grey, the fans put on manlier and more decided depths of verdure, stand out
dark upon the distance, glisten against the sun, and flash like silver fountains in the assault
of the wind.  In this young wood of Taahauku, all these hues and combinations were exampled
and repeated by the score.  The trees grew pleasantly spaced upon a hilly sward, here and there
interspersed with a rack for drying copra, or a tumble-down hut for storing it.  Every here
and there the stroller had a glimpse of the Casco tossing in the narrow anchorage below; and
beyond he had ever before him the dark amphitheatre of the Atuona mountains and the cliffy
bluff that closes it to seaward.  The trade-wind moving in the fans made a ceaseless noise
of summer rain; and from time to time, with the sound of a sudden and distant drum-beat, the
surf would burst in a sea-cave.

At the upper end of the inlet, its low, cliffy lining sinks, at both sides, into a beach. 
A copra warehouse stands in the shadow of the shoreside trees, flitted about for ever by a
clan of dwarfish swallows; and a line of rails on a high wooden staging bends back into the
mouth of the valley.  Walking on this, the new- landed traveller becomes aware of a broad fresh-water
lagoon (one arm of which he crosses), and beyond, of a grove of noble palms, sheltering the
house of the trader, Mr. Keane.  Overhead, the cocos join in a continuous and lofty roof; blackbirds
are heard lustily singing; the island cock springs his jubilant rattle and airs his golden
plumage; cow-bells sound far and near in the grove; and when you sit in the broad verandah,
lulled by this symphony, you may say to yourself, if you are able:  'Better fifty years of
Europe . . .' Farther on, the floor of the valley is flat and green, and dotted here and there
with stripling coco-palms.  Through the midst, with many changes of music, the river trots
and brawls; and along its course, where we should look for willows, puraos grow in clusters,
and make shadowy pools after an angler's heart.  A vale more rich and peaceful, sweeter air,
a sweeter voice of rural sounds, I have found nowhere.  One circumstance alone might strike
the experienced:  here is a convenient beach, deep soil, good water, and yet nowhere any paepaes,
nowhere any trace of island habitation.

It is but a few years since this valley was a place choked with jungle, the debatable land
and battle-ground of cannibals.  Two clans laid claim to it--neither could substantiate the
claim, and the roads lay desert, or were only visited by men in arms.  It is for this very
reason that it wears now so smiling an appearance: cleared, planted, built upon, supplied with
railways, boat-houses, and bath-houses.  For, being no man's land, it was the more readily
ceded to a stranger.  The stranger was Captain John Hart:  Ima Hati, 'Broken-arm,' the natives
call him, because when he first visited the islands his arm was in a sling.  Captain Hart,
a man of English birth, but an American subject, had conceived the idea of cotton culture in
the Marquesas during the American War, and was at first rewarded with success.  His plantation
at Anaho was highly productive; island cotton fetched a high price, and the natives used to
debate which was the stronger power, Ima Hati or the French:  deciding in favour of the captain,
because, though the French had the most ships, he had the more money.

He marked Taahauku for a suitable site, acquired it, and offered the superintendence to Mr.
Robert Stewart, a Fifeshire man, already some time in the islands, who had just been ruined
by a war on Tauata.  Mr. Stewart was somewhat averse to the adventure, having some acquaintance
with Atuona and its notorious chieftain, Moipu. He had once landed there, he told me, about
dusk, and found the remains of a man and woman partly eaten.  On his starting and sickening
at the sight, one of Moipu's young men picked up a human foot, and provocatively staring at
the stranger, grinned and nibbled at the heel.  None need be surprised if Mr. Stewart fled
incontinently to the bush, lay there all night in a great horror of mind, and got off to sea
again by daylight on the morrow.  'It was always a bad place, Atuona,' commented Mr. Stewart,
in his homely Fifeshire voice.  In spite of this dire introduction, he accepted the captain's
offer, was landed at Taahauku with three Chinamen, and proceeded to clear the jungle.

War was pursued at that time, almost without interval, between the men of Atuona and the men
of Haamau; and one day, from the opposite sides of the valley, battle--or I should rather say
the noise of battle--raged all the afternoon:  the shots and insults of the opposing clans
passing from hill to hill over the heads of Mr. Stewart and his Chinamen.  There was no genuine
fighting; it was like a bicker of schoolboys, only some fool had given the children guns. 
One man died of his exertions in running, the only casualty. With night the shots and insults
ceased; the men of Haamau withdrew; and victory, on some occult principle, was scored to Moipu.
Perhaps, in consequence, there came a day when Moipu made a feast, and a party from Haamau
came under safe-conduct to eat of it.  These passed early by Taahauku, and some of Moipu's
young men were there to be a guard of honour.  They were not long gone before there came down
from Haamau, a man, his wife, and a girl of twelve, their daughter, bringing fungus.  Several
Atuona lads were hanging round the store; but the day being one of truce none apprehended danger.
The fungus was weighed and paid for; the man of Haamau proposed he should have his axe ground
in the bargain; and Mr. Stewart demurring at the trouble, some of the Atuona lads offered to
grind it for him, and set it on the wheel.  While the axe was grinding, a friendly native whispered
Mr. Stewart to have a care of himself, for there was trouble in hand; and, all at once, the
man of Haamau was seized, and his head and arm stricken from his body, the head at one sweep
of his own newly sharpened axe.  In the first alert, the girl escaped among the cotton; and
Mr. Stewart, having thrust the wife into the house and locked her in from the outside, supposed
the affair was over.  But the business had not passed without noise, and it reached the ears
of an older girl who had loitered by the way, and who now came hastily down the valley, crying
as she came for her father.  Her, too, they seized and beheaded; I know not what they had done
with the axe, it was a blunt knife that served their butcherly turn upon the girl; and the
blood spurted in fountains and painted them from head to foot. Thus horrible from crime, the
party returned to Atuona, carrying the heads to Moipu.  It may be fancied how the feast broke
up; but it is notable that the guests were honourably suffered to retire. These passed back
through Taahauku in extreme disorder; a little after the valley began to be overrun with shouting
and triumphing braves; and a letter of warning coming at the same time to Mr. Stewart, he and
his Chinamen took refuge with the Protestant missionary in Atuona.  That night the store was
gutted, and the bodies cast in a pit and covered with leaves.  Three days later the schooner
had come in; and things appearing quieter, Mr. Stewart and the captain landed in Taahauku to
compute the damage and to view the grave, which was already indicated by the stench.  While
they were so employed, a party of Moipu's young men, decked with red flannel to indicate martial
sentiments, came over the hills from Atuona, dug up the bodies, washed them in the river, and
carried them away on sticks.  That night the feast began.

Those who knew Mr. Stewart before this experience declare the man to be quite altered.  He
stuck, however, to his post; and somewhat later, when the plantation was already well established,
and gave employment to sixty Chinamen and seventy natives, he found himself once more in dangerous
times.  The men of Haamau, it was reported, had sworn to plunder and erase the settlement;
letters came continually from the Hawaiian missionary, who acted as intelligence department;
and for six weeks Mr. Stewart and three other whites slept in the cotton-house at night in
a rampart of bales, and (what was their best defence) ostentatiously practised rifle-shooting
by day upon the beach.  Natives were often there to watch them; the practice was excellent;
and the assault was never delivered--if it ever was intended, which I doubt, for the natives
are more famous for false rumours than for deeds of energy.  I was told the late French war
was a case in point; the tribes on the beach accusing those in the mountains of designs which
they had never the hardihood to entertain.  And the same testimony to their backwardness in
open battle reached me from all sides.  Captain Hart once landed after an engagement in a certain
bay; one man had his hand hurt, an old woman and two children had been slain; and the captain
improved the occasion by poulticing the hand, and taunting both sides upon so wretched an affair.
It is true these wars were often merely formal--comparable with duels to the first blood. 
Captain Hart visited a bay where such a war was being carried on between two brothers, one
of whom had been thought wanting in civility to the guests of the other.  About one-half of
the population served day about on alternate sides, so as to be well with each when the inevitable
peace should follow.  The forts of the belligerents were over against each other, and close
by. Pigs were cooking.  Well-oiled braves, with well-oiled muskets, strutted on the paepae
or sat down to feast.  No business, however needful, could be done, and all thoughts were supposed
to be centred in this mockery of war.  A few days later, by a regrettable accident, a man was
killed; it was felt at once the thing had gone too far, and the quarrel was instantly patched
up.  But the more serious wars were prosecuted in a similar spirit; a gift of pigs and a feast
made their inevitable end; the killing of a single man was a great victory, and the murder
of defenceless solitaries counted a heroic deed.

The foot of the cliffs, about all these islands, is the place of fishing.  Between Taahauku
and Atuona we saw men, but chiefly women, some nearly naked, some in thin white or crimson
dresses, perched in little surf-beat promontories--the brown precipice overhanging them, and
the convolvulus overhanging that, as if to cut them off the more completely from assistance.
There they would angle much of the morning; and as fast as they caught any fish, eat them,
raw and living, where they stood.  It was such helpless ones that the warriors from the opposite
island of Tauata slew, and carried home and ate, and were thereupon accounted mighty men of
valour.  Of one such exploit I can give the account of an eye- witness.  'Portuguese Joe,'
Mr. Keane's cook, was once pulling an oar in an Atuona boat, when they spied a stranger in
a canoe with some fish and a piece of tapu.  The Atuona men cried upon him to draw near and
have a smoke.  He complied, because, I suppose, he had no choice; but he knew, poor devil,
what he was coming to, and (as Joe said) 'he didn't seem to care about the smoke.'  A few questions
followed, as to where he came from, and what was his business.  These he must needs answer,
as he must needs draw at the unwelcome pipe, his heart the while drying in his bosom.  And
then, of a sudden, a big fellow in Joe's boat leaned over, plucked the stranger from his canoe,
struck him with a knife in the neck-- inward and downward, as Joe showed in pantomime more
expressive than his words--and held him under water, like a fowl, until his struggles ceased.
Whereupon the long-pig was hauled on board, the boat's head turned about for Atuona, and these
Marquesan braves pulled home rejoicing.  Moipu was on the beach and rejoiced with them on their
arrival.  Poor Joe toiled at his oar that day with a white face, yet he had no fear for himself.
'They were very good to me--gave me plenty grub:  never wished to eat white man,' said he.

If the most horrible experience was Mr. Stewart's, it was Captain Hart himself who ran the
nearest danger.  He had bought a piece of land from Timau, chief of a neighbouring bay, and
put some Chinese there to work.  Visiting the station with one of the Godeffroys, he found
his Chinamen trooping to the beach in terror:  Timau had driven them out, seized their effects,
and was in war attire with his young men.  A boat was despatched to Taahauku for reinforcement;
as they awaited her return, they could see, from the deck of the schooner, Timau and his young
men dancing the war-dance on the hill-top till past twelve at night; and so soon as the boat
came (bringing three gendarmes, armed with chassepots, two white men from Taahauku station,
and some native warriors) the party set out to seize the chief before he should awake.  Day
was not come, and it was a very bright moonlight morning, when they reached the hill-top where
(in a house of palm-leaves) Timau was sleeping off his debauch.  The assailants were fully
exposed, the interior of the hut quite dark; the position far from sound.  The gendarmes knelt
with their pieces ready, and Captain Hart advanced alone.  As he drew near the door he heard
the snap of a gun cocking from within, and in sheer self-defence--there being no other escape--
sprang into the house and grappled Timau.  'Timau, come with me!' he cried.  But Timau--a great
fellow, his eyes blood-red with the abuse of kava, six foot three in stature--cast him on one
side; and the captain, instantly expecting to be either shot or brained, discharged his pistol
in the dark.  When they carried Timau out at the door into the moonlight, he was already dead,
and, upon this unlooked-for termination of their sally, the whites appeared to have lost all
conduct, and retreated to the boats, fired upon by the natives as they went.  Captain Hart,
who almost rivals Bishop Dordillon in popularity, shared with him the policy of extreme indulgence
to the natives, regarding them as children, making light of their defects, and constantly in
favour of mild measures.  The death of Timau has thus somewhat weighed upon his mind; the more
so, as the chieftain's musket was found in the house unloaded.  To a less delicate conscience
the matter will seem light.  If a drunken savage elects to cock a fire-arm, a gentleman advancing
towards him in the open cannot wait to make sure if it be charged.

I have touched on the captain's popularity.  It is one of the things that most strikes a stranger
in the Marquesas.  He comes instantly on two names, both new to him, both locally famous, both
mentioned by all with affection and respect--the bishop's and the captain's.  It gave me a
strong desire to meet with the survivor, which was subsequently gratified--to the enrichment
of these pages. Long after that again, in the Place Dolorous--Molokai--I came once more on
the traces of that affectionate popularity.  There was a blind white leper there, an old sailor--'an
old tough,' he called himself--who had long sailed among the eastern islands.  Him I used to
visit, and, being fresh from the scenes of his activity, gave him the news.  This (in the true
island style) was largely a chronicle of wrecks; and it chanced I mentioned the case of one
not very successful captain, and how he had lost a vessel for Mr. Hart; thereupon the blind
leper broke forth in lamentation.  'Did he lose a ship of John Hart's?' he cried; 'poor John
Hart!  Well, I'm sorry it was Hart's,' with needless force of epithet, which I neglect to reproduce.

Perhaps, if Captain Hart's affairs had continued to prosper, his popularity might have been
different.  Success wins glory, but it kills affection, which misfortune fosters.  And the
misfortune which overtook the captain's enterprise was truly singular.  He was at the top of
his career.  Ile Masse belonged to him, given by the French as an indemnity for the robberies
at Taahauku.  But the Ile Masse was only suitable for cattle; and his two chief stations were
Anaho, in Nuka-hiva, facing the north-east, and Taahauku in Hiva- oa, some hundred miles to
the southward, and facing the south-west. Both these were on the same day swept by a tidal
wave, which was not felt in any other bay or island of the group.  The south coast of Hiva-oa
was bestrewn with building timber and camphor-wood chests, containing goods; which, on the
promise of a reasonable salvage, the natives very honestly brought back, the chests apparently
not opened, and some of the wood after it had been built into their houses.  But the recovery
of such jetsam could not affect the result.  It was impossible the captain should withstand
this partiality of fortune; and with his fall the prosperity of the Marquesas ended.  Anaho
is truly extinct, Taahauku but a shadow of itself; nor has any new plantation arisen in their
stead.

CHAPTER XIII--CHARACTERS

There was a certain traffic in our anchorage at Atuona; different indeed from the dead inertia
and quiescence of the sister island, Nuka-hiva.  Sails were seen steering from its mouth; now
it would be a whale-boat manned with native rowdies, and heavy with copra for sale; now perhaps
a single canoe come after commodities to buy. The anchorage was besides frequented by fishers;
not only the lone females perched in niches of the cliff, but whole parties, who would sometimes
camp and build a fire upon the beach, and sometimes lie in their canoes in the midst of the
haven and jump by turns in the water; which they would cast eight or nine feet high, to drive,
as we supposed, the fish into their nets.  The goods the purchasers came to buy were sometimes
quaint.  I remarked one outrigger returning with a single ham swung from a pole in the stern.
And one day there came into Mr. Keane's store a charming lad, excellently mannered, speaking
French correctly though with a babyish accent; very handsome too, and much of a dandy, as was
shown not only in his shining raiment, but by the nature of his purchases.  These were five
ship-biscuits, a bottle of scent, and two balls of washing blue.  He was from Tauata, whither
he returned the same night in an outrigger, daring the deep with these young- ladyish treasures.
The gross of the native passengers were more ill-favoured:  tall, powerful fellows, well tattooed,
and with disquieting manners.  Something coarse and jeering distinguished them, and I was often
reminded of the slums of some great city. One night, as dusk was falling, a whale-boat put
in on that part of the beach where I chanced to be alone.  Six or seven ruffianly fellows scrambled
out; all had enough English to give me 'good- bye,' which was the ordinary salutation; or 'good-morning,'
which they seemed to regard as an intensitive; jests followed, they surrounded me with harsh
laughter and rude looks, and I was glad to move away.  I had not yet encountered Mr. Stewart,
or I should have been reminded of his first landing at Atuona and the humorist who nibbled
at the heel.  But their neighbourhood depressed me; and I felt, if I had been there a castaway
and out of reach of help, my heart would have been sick.

Nor was the traffic altogether native.  While we lay in the anchorage there befell a strange
coincidence.  A schooner was observed at sea and aiming to enter.  We knew all the schooners
in the group, but this appeared larger than any; she was rigged, besides, after the English
manner; and, coming to an anchor some way outside the Casco, showed at last the blue ensign.
There were at that time, according to rumour, no fewer than four yachts in the Pacific; but
it was strange that any two of them should thus lie side by side in that outlandish inlet:
stranger still that in the owner of the Nyanza, Captain Dewar, I should find a man of the same
country and the same county with myself, and one whom I had seen walking as a boy on the shores
of the Alpes Maritimes.

We had besides a white visitor from shore, who came and departed in a crowded whale-boat manned
by natives; having read of yachts in the Sunday papers, and being fired with the desire to
see one. Captain Chase, they called him, an old whaler-man, thickset and white-bearded, with
a strong Indiana drawl; years old in the country, a good backer in battle, and one of those
dead shots whose practice at the target struck terror in the braves of Haamau. Captain Chase
dwelt farther east in a bay called Hanamate, with a Mr. M'Callum; or rather they had dwelt
together once, and were now amicably separated.  The captain is to be found near one end of
the bay, in a wreck of a house, and waited on by a Chinese.  At the point of the opposing corner
another habitation stands on a tall paepae.  The surf runs there exceeding heavy, seas of seven
and eight feet high bursting under the walls of the house, which is thus continually filled
with their clamour, and rendered fit only for solitary, or at least for silent, inmates.  Here
it is that Mr. M'Callum, with a Shakespeare and a Burns, enjoys the society of the breakers.
His name and his Burns testify to Scottish blood; but he is an American born, somewhere far
east; followed the trade of a ship-carpenter; and was long employed, the captain of a hundred
Indians, breaking up wrecks about Cape Flattery.  Many of the whites who are to be found scattered
in the South Seas represent the more artistic portion of their class; and not only enjoy the
poetry of that new life, but came there on purpose to enjoy it.  I have been shipmates with
a man, no longer young, who sailed upon that voyage, his first time to sea, for the mere love
of Samoa; and it was a few letters in a newspaper that sent him on that pilgrimage.  Mr. M'Callum
was another instance of the same.  He had read of the South Seas; loved to read of them; and
let their image fasten in his heart:  till at length he could refrain no longer-- must set
forth, a new Rudel, for that unseen homeland--and has now dwelt for years in Hiva-oa, and will
lay his bones there in the end with full content; having no desire to behold again the places
of his boyhood, only, perhaps--once, before he dies--the rude and wintry landscape of Cape
Flattery.  Yet he is an active man, full of schemes; has bought land of the natives; has planted
five thousand coco-palms; has a desert island in his eye, which he desires to lease, and a
schooner in the stocks, which he has laid and built himself, and even hopes to finish.  Mr.
M'Callum and I did not meet, but, like gallant troubadours, corresponded in verse. I hope he
will not consider it a breach of copyright if I give here a specimen of his muse.  He and Bishop
Dordillon are the two European bards of the Marquesas.

'Sail, ho!  Ahoy!  Casco, First among the pleasure fleet That came around to greet These isles
from San Francisco,

And first, too; only one Among the literary men That this way has ever been - Welcome, then,
to Stevenson.

Please not offended be At this little notice Of the Casco, Captain Otis, With the novelist's
family.

Avoir une voyage magnifical Is our wish sincere, That you'll have from here Allant sur la Grande
Pacifical.'

But our chief visitor was one Mapiao, a great Tahuku--which seems to mean priest, wizard, tattooer,
practiser of any art, or, in a word, esoteric person--and a man famed for his eloquence on
public occasions and witty talk in private.  His first appearance was typical of the man. 
He came down clamorous to the eastern landing, where the surf was running very high; scorned
all our signals to go round the bay; carried his point, was brought aboard at some hazard to
our skiff, and set down in one corner of the cockpit to his appointed task.  He had been hired,
as one cunning in the art, to make my old men's beards into a wreath:  what a wreath for Celia's
arbour!  His own beard (which he carried, for greater safety, in a sailor's knot) was not merely
the adornment of his age, but a substantial piece of property.  One hundred dollars was the
estimated value; and as Brother Michel never knew a native to deposit a greater sum with Bishop
Dordillon, our friend was a rich man in virtue of his chin.  He had something of an East Indian
cast, but taller and stronger:  his nose hooked, his face narrow, his forehead very high, the
whole elaborately tattooed.  I may say I have never entertained a guest so trying.  In the
least particular he must be waited on; he would not go to the scuttle- butt for water; he would
not even reach to get the glass, it must be given him in his hand; if aid were denied him,
he would fold his arms, bow his head, and go without:  only the work would suffer. Early the
first forenoon he called aloud for biscuit and salmon; biscuit and ham were brought; he looked
on them inscrutably, and signed they should be set aside.  A number of considerations crowded
on my mind; how the sort of work on which he was engaged was probably tapu in a high degree;
should by rights, perhaps, be transacted on a tapu platform which no female might approach;
and it was possible that fish might be the essential diet.  Some salted fish I therefore brought
him, and along with that a glass of rum: at sight of which Mapiao displayed extraordinary animation,
pointed to the zenith, made a long speech in which I picked up umati--the word for the sun--and
signed to me once more to place these dainties out of reach.  At last I had understood, and
every day the programme was the same.  At an early period of the morning his dinner must be
set forth on the roof of the house and at a proper distance, full in view but just out of reach;
and not until the fit hour, which was the point of noon, would the artificer partake. This
solemnity was the cause of an absurd misadventure.  He was seated plaiting, as usual, at the
beards, his dinner arrayed on the roof, and not far off a glass of water standing.  It appears
he desired to drink; was of course far too great a gentleman to rise and get the water for
himself; and spying Mrs. Stevenson, imperiously signed to her to hand it.  The signal was misunderstood;
Mrs. Stevenson was, by this time, prepared for any eccentricity on the part of our guest; and
instead of passing him the water, flung his dinner overboard.  I must do Mapiao justice: all
laughed, but his laughter rang the loudest.

These troubles of service were at worst occasional; the embarrassment of the man's talk incessant.
He was plainly a practised conversationalist; the nicety of his inflections, the elegance of
his gestures, and the fine play of his expression, told us that.  We, meanwhile, sat like aliens
in a playhouse; we could see the actors were upon some material business and performing well,
but the plot of the drama remained undiscoverable.  Names of places, the name of Captain Hart,
occasional disconnected words, tantalised without enlightening us; and the less we understood,
the more gallantly, the more copiously, and with still the more explanatory gestures, Mapiao
returned to the assault.  We could see his vanity was on the rack; being come to a place where
that fine jewel of his conversational talent could earn him no respect; and he had times of
despair when he desisted from the endeavour, and instants of irritation when he regarded us
with unconcealed contempt.  Yet for me, as the practitioner of some kindred mystery to his
own, he manifested to the last a measure of respect.  As we sat under the awning in opposite
corners of the cockpit, he braiding hairs from dead men's chins, I forming runes upon a sheet
of folio paper, he would nod across to me as one Tahuku to another, or, crossing the cockpit,
study for a while my shapeless scrawl and encourage me with a heartfelt 'mitai!--good!'  So
might a deaf painter sympathise far off with a musician, as the slave and master of some uncomprehended
and yet kindred art.  A silly trade, he doubtless considered it; but a man must make allowance
for barbarians--chaque pays a ses coutumes--and he felt the principle was there.

The time came at last when his labours, which resembled those rather of Penelope than Hercules,
could be no more spun out, and nothing remained but to pay him and say farewell.  After a long,
learned argument in Marquesan, I gathered that his mind was set on fish-hooks; with three of
which, and a brace of dollars, I thought he was not ill rewarded for passing his forenoons
in our cockpit, eating, drinking, delivering his opinions, and pressing the ship's company
into his menial service.  For all that, he was a man of so high a bearing, and so like an uncle
of my own who should have gone mad and got tattooed, that I applied to him, when we were both
on shore, to know if he were satisfied.  'Mitai ehipe?' I asked.  And he, with rich unction,
offering at the same time his hand--'Mitai ehipe, mitai kaehae; kaoha nui!'--or, to translate
freely:  'The ship is good, the victuals are up to the mark, and we part in friendship.'  Which
testimonial uttered, he set off along the beach with his head bowed and the air of one deeply
injured.

I saw him go, on my side, with relief.  It would be more interesting to learn how our relation
seemed to Mapiao.  His exigence, we may suppose, was merely loyal.  He had been hired by the
ignorant to do a piece of work; and he was bound that he would do it the right way.  Countless
obstacles, continual ignorant ridicule, availed not to dissuade him.  He had his dinner laid
out; watched it, as was fit, the while he worked; ate it at the fit hour; was in all things
served and waited on; and could take his hire in the end with a clear conscience, telling himself
the mystery was performed duly, the beards rightfully braided, and we (in spite of ourselves)
correctly served.  His view of our stupidity, even he, the mighty talker, must have lacked
language to express.  He never interfered with my Tahuku work; civilly praised it, idle as
it seemed; civilly supposed that I was competent in my own mystery:  such being the attitude
of the intelligent and the polite.  And we, on the other hand--who had yet the most to gain
or lose, since the product was to be ours--who had professed our disability by the very act
of hiring him to do it--were never weary of impeding his own more important labours, and sometimes
lacked the sense and the civility to refrain from laughter.

CHAPTER XIV--IN A CANNIBAL VALLEY

The road from Taahauku to Atuona skirted the north-westerly side of the anchorage, somewhat
high up, edged, and sometimes shaded, by the splendid flowers of the flamboyant--its English
name I do not know.  At the turn of the hand, Atuona came in view:  a long beach, a heavy and
loud breach of surf, a shore-side village scattered among trees, and the guttered mountains
drawing near on both sides above a narrow and rich ravine.  Its infamous repute perhaps affected
me; but I thought it the loveliest, and by far the most ominous and gloomy, spot on earth.
Beautiful it surely was; and even more salubrious.  The healthfulness of the whole group is
amazing; that of Atuona almost in the nature of a miracle.  In Atuona, a village planted in
a shore-side marsh, the houses standing everywhere intermingled with the pools of a taro-garden,
we find every condition of tropical danger and discomfort; and yet there are not even mosquitoes--not
even the hateful day-fly of Nuka-hiva--and fever, and its concomitant, the island fe'efe'e,
are unknown.

This is the chief station of the French on the man-eating isle of Hiva-oa.  The sergeant of
gendarmerie enjoys the style of the vice- resident, and hoists the French colours over a quite
extensive compound.  A Chinaman, a waif from the plantation, keeps a restaurant in the rear
quarters of the village; and the mission is well represented by the sister's school and Brother
Michel's church.  Father Orens, a wonderful octogenarian, his frame scarce bowed, the fire
of his eye undimmed, has lived, and trembled, and suffered in this place since 1843.  Again
and again, when Moipu had made coco-brandy, he has been driven from his house into the woods.
'A mouse that dwelt in a cat's ear' had a more easy resting-place; and yet I have never seen
a man that bore less mark of years.  He must show us the church, still decorated with the bishop's
artless ornaments of paper--the last work of industrious old hands, and the last earthly amusement
of a man that was much of a hero.  In the sacristy we must see his sacred vessels, and, in
particular, a vestment which was a 'vraie curiosite,' because it had been given by a gendarme.
To the Protestant there is always something embarrassing in the eagerness with which grown
and holy men regard these trifles; but it was touching and pretty to see Orens, his aged eyes
shining in his head, display his sacred treasures.

August 26.--The vale behind the village, narrowing swiftly to a mere ravine, was choked with
profitable trees.  A river gushed in the midst.  Overhead, the tall coco-palms made a primary
covering; above that, from one wall of the mountain to another, the ravine was roofed with
cloud; so that we moved below, amid teeming vegetation, in a covered house of heat.  On either
hand, at every hundred yards, instead of the houseless, disembowelling paepaes of Nuka-hiva,
populous houses turned out their inhabitants to cry 'Kaoha!' to the passers-by.  The road,
too, was busy:  strings of girls, fair and foul, as in less favoured countries; men bearing
breadfruit; the sisters, with a little guard of pupils; a fellow bestriding a horse--passed
and greeted us continually; and now it was a Chinaman who came to the gate of his flower-yard,
and gave us 'Good-day' in excellent English; and a little farther on it would be some natives
who set us down by the wayside, made us a feast of mummy-apple, and entertained us as we ate
with drumming on a tin case.  With all this fine plenty of men and fruit, death is at work
here also.  The population, according to the highest estimate, does not exceed six hundred
in the whole vale of Atuona; and yet, when I once chanced to put the question, Brother Michel
counted up ten whom he knew to be sick beyond recovery.  It was here, too, that I could at
last gratify my curiosity with the sight of a native house in the very article of dissolution.
It had fallen flat along the paepae, its poles sprawling ungainly; the rains and the mites
contended against it; what remained seemed sound enough, but much was gone already; and it
was easy to see how the insects consumed the walls as if they had been bread, and the air and
the rain ate into them like vitriol.

A little ahead of us, a young gentleman, very well tattooed, and dressed in a pair of white
trousers and a flannel shirt, had been marching unconcernedly.  Of a sudden, without apparent
cause, he turned back, took us in possession, and led us undissuadably along a by-path to the
river's edge.  There, in a nook of the most attractive amenity, he bade us to sit down:  the
stream splashing at our elbow, a shock of nondescript greenery enshrining us from above; and
thither, after a brief absence, he brought us a cocoa- nut, a lump of sandal-wood, and a stick
he had begun to carve:  the nut for present refreshment, the sandal-wood for a precious gift,
and the stick--in the simplicity of his vanity--to harvest premature praise.  Only one section
was yet carved, although the whole was pencil-marked in lengths; and when I proposed to buy
it, Poni (for that was the artist's name) recoiled in horror.  But I was not to be moved, and
simply refused restitution, for I had long wondered why a people who displayed, in their tattooing,
so great a gift of arabesque invention, should display it nowhere else.  Here, at last, I had
found something of the same talent in another medium; and I held the incompleteness, in these
days of world-wide brummagem, for a happy mark of authenticity.  Neither my reasons nor my
purpose had I the means of making clear to Poni; I could only hold on to the stick, and bid
the artist follow me to the gendarmerie, where I should find interpreters and money; but we
gave him, in the meanwhile, a boat-call in return for his sandal- wood.  As he came behind
us down the vale he sounded upon this continually.  And continually, from the wayside houses,
there poured forth little groups of girls in crimson, or of men in white. And to these must
Poni pass the news of who the strangers were, of what they had been doing, of why it was that
Poni had a boat- whistle; and of why he was now being haled to the vice-residency, uncertain
whether to be punished or rewarded, uncertain whether he had lost a stick or made a bargain,
but hopeful on the whole, and in the meanwhile highly consoled by the boat-whistle.  Whereupon
he would tear himself away from this particular group of inquirers, and once more we would
hear the shrill call in our wake.

August 27.--I made a more extended circuit in the vale with Brother Michel.  We were mounted
on a pair of sober nags, suitable to these rude paths; the weather was exquisite, and the company
in which I found myself no less agreeable than the scenes through which I passed.  We mounted
at first by a steep grade along the summit of one of those twisted spurs that, from a distance,
mark out provinces of sun and shade upon the mountain-side.  The ground fell away on either
hand with an extreme declivity.  From either hand, out of profound ravines, mounted the song
of falling water and the smoke of household fires.  Here and there the hills of foliage would
divide, and our eye would plunge down upon one of these deep- nested habitations.  And still,
high in front, arose the precipitous barrier of the mountain, greened over where it seemed
that scarce a harebell could find root, barred with the zigzags of a human road where it seemed
that not a goat could scramble.  And in truth, for all the labour that it cost, the road is
regarded even by the Marquesans as impassable; they will not risk a horse on that ascent; and
those who lie to the westward come and go in their canoes.  I never knew a hill to lose so
little on a near approach: a consequence, I must suppose, of its surprising steepness.  When
we turned about, I was amazed to behold so deep a view behind, and so high a shoulder of blue
sea, crowned by the whale-like island of Motane.  And yet the wall of mountain had not visibly
dwindled, and I could even have fancied, as I raised my eyes to measure it, that it loomed
higher than before.

We struck now into covert paths, crossed and heard more near at hand the bickering of the streams,
and tasted the coolness of those recesses where the houses stood.  The birds sang about us
as we descended.  All along our path my guide was being hailed by voices: 'Mikael--Kaoha, Mikael!'
From the doorstep, from the cotton-patch, or out of the deep grove of island-chestnuts, these
friendly cries arose, and were cheerily answered as we passed.  In a sharp angle of a glen,
on a rushing brook and under fathoms of cool foliage, we struck a house upon a well-built paepae,
the fire brightly burning under the popoi-shed against the evening meal; and here the cries
became a chorus, and the house folk, running out, obliged us to dismount and breathe.  It seemed
a numerous family:  we saw eight at least; and one of these honoured me with a particular attention.
This was the mother, a woman naked to the waist, of an aged countenance, but with hair still
copious and black, and breasts still erect and youthful.  On our arrival I could see she remarked
me, but instead of offering any greeting, disappeared at once into the bush.  Thence she returned
with two crimson flowers.  'Good- bye!' was her salutation, uttered not without coquetry; and
as she said it she pressed the flowers into my hand--'Good-bye!  I speak Inglis.'  It was from
a whaler-man, who (she informed me) was 'a plenty good chap,' that she had learned my language;
and I could not but think how handsome she must have been in these times of her youth, and
could not but guess that some memories of the dandy whaler-man prompted her attentions to myself.
Nor could I refrain from wondering what had befallen her lover; in the rain and mire of what
sea-ports he had tramped since then; in what close and garish drinking-dens had found his pleasure;
and in the ward of what infirmary dreamed his last of the Marquesas.  But she, the more fortunate,
lived on in her green island.  The talk, in this lost house upon the mountains, ran chiefly
upon Mapiao and his visits to the Casco:  the news of which had probably gone abroad by then
to all the island, so that there was no paepae in Hiva-oa where they did not make the subject
of excited comment.

Not much beyond we came upon a high place in the foot of the ravine.  Two roads divided it,
and met in the midst.  Save for this intersection the amphitheatre was strangely perfect, and
had a certain ruder air of things Roman.  Depths of foliage and the bulk of the mountain kept
it in a grateful shadow.  On the benches several young folk sat clustered or apart.  One of
these, a girl perhaps fourteen years of age, buxom and comely, caught the eye of Brother Michel.
Why was she not at school?--she was done with school now.  What was she doing here?--she lived
here now.  Why so?--no answer but a deepening blush.  There was no severity in Brother Michel's
manner; the girl's own confusion told her story. 'Elle a honte,' was the missionary's comment,
as we rode away. Near by in the stream, a grown girl was bathing naked in a goyle between two
stepping-stones; and it amused me to see with what alacrity and real alarm she bounded on her
many-coloured under- clothes.  Even in these daughters of cannibals shame was eloquent.

It is in Hiva-oa, owing to the inveterate cannibalism of the natives, that local beliefs have
been most rudely trodden underfoot.  It was here that three religious chiefs were set under
a bridge, and the women of the valley made to defile over their heads upon the road-way:  the
poor, dishonoured fellows sitting there (all observers agree) with streaming tears.  Not only
was one road driven across the high place, but two roads intersected in its midst.  There is
no reason to suppose that the last was done of purpose, and perhaps it was impossible entirely
to avoid the numerous sacred places of the islands.  But these things are not done without
result.  I have spoken already of the regard of Marquesans for the dead, making (as it does)
so strange a contrast with their unconcern for death.  Early on this day's ride, for instance,
we encountered a petty chief, who inquired (of course) where we were going, and suggested by
way of amendment.  'Why do you not rather show him the cemetery?'  I saw it; it was but newly
opened, the third within eight years.  They are great builders here in Hiva-oa; I saw in my
ride paepaes that no European dry-stone mason could have equalled, the black volcanic stones
were laid so justly, the corners were so precise, the levels so true; but the retaining-wall
of the new graveyard stood apart, and seemed to be a work of love.  The sentiment of honour
for the dead is therefore not extinct.  And yet observe the consequence of violently countering
men's opinions.  Of the four prisoners in Atuona gaol, three were of course thieves; the fourth
was there for sacrilege. He had levelled up a piece of the graveyard--to give a feast upon,
as he informed the court--and declared he had no thought of doing wrong.  Why should he?  He
had been forced at the point of the bayonet to destroy the sacred places of his own piety;
when he had recoiled from the task, he had been jeered at for a superstitious fool.  And now
it is supposed he will respect our European superstitions as by second nature.

CHAPTER XV--THE TWO CHIEFS OF ATUONA

It had chanced (as the Casco beat through the Bordelais Straits for Taahauku) she approached
on one board very near the land in the opposite isle of Tauata, where houses were to be seen
in a grove of tall coco-palms.  Brother Michel pointed out the spot.  'I am at home now,' said
he.  'I believe I have a large share in these cocoa-nuts; and in that house madame my mother
lives with her two husbands!'  'With two husbands?' somebody inquired.  'C'est ma honte,' replied
the brother drily.

A word in passing on the two husbands.  I conceive the brother to have expressed himself loosely.
It seems common enough to find a native lady with two consorts; but these are not two husbands.
The first is still the husband; the wife continues to be referred to by his name; and the position
of the coadjutor, or pikio, although quite regular, appears undoubtedly subordinate.  We had
opportunities to observe one household of the sort.  The pikio was recognised; appeared openly
along with the husband when the lady was thought to be insulted, and the pair made common cause
like brothers.  At home the inequality was more apparent.  The husband sat to receive and entertain
visitors; the pikio was running the while to fetch cocoa-nuts like a hired servant, and I remarked
he was sent on these errands in preference even to the son.  Plainly we have here no second
husband; plainly we have the tolerated lover.  Only, in the Marquesas, instead of carrying
his lady's fan and mantle, he must turn his hand to do the husband's housework.

The sight of Brother Michel's family estate led the conversation for some while upon the method
and consequence of artificial kinship.  Our curiosity became extremely whetted; the brother
offered to have the whole of us adopted, and some two days later we became accordingly the
children of Paaaeua, appointed chief of Atuona.  I was unable to be present at the ceremony,
which was primitively simple.  The two Mrs. Stevensons and Mr. Osbourne, along with Paaaeua,
his wife, and an adopted child of theirs, son of a shipwrecked Austrian, sat down to an excellent
island meal, of which the principal and the only necessary dish was pig.  A concourse watched
them through the apertures of the house; but none, not even Brother Michel, might partake;
for the meal was sacramental, and either creative or declaratory of the new relationship. 
In Tahiti things are not so strictly ordered; when Ori and I 'made brothers,' both our families
sat with us at table, yet only he and I, who had eaten with intention were supposed to be affected
by the ceremony.  For the adoption of an infant I believe no formality to be required; the
child is handed over by the natural parents, and grows up to inherit the estates of the adoptive.
Presents are doubtless exchanged, as at all junctures of island life, social or international;
but I never heard of any banquet--the child's presence at the daily board perhaps sufficing.
We may find the rationale in the ancient Arabian idea that a common diet makes a common blood,
with its derivative axiom that 'he is the father who gives the child its morning draught.'
In the Marquesan practice, the sense would thus be evanescent; from the Tahitian, a mere survival,
it will have entirely fled.  An interesting parallel will probably occur to many of my readers.

What is the nature of the obligation assumed at such a festival? It will vary with the characters
of those engaged, and with the circumstances of the case.  Thus it would be absurd to take
too seriously our adoption at Atuona.  On the part of Paaaeua it was an affair of social ambition;
when he agreed to receive us in his family the man had not so much as seen us, and knew only
that we were inestimably rich and travelled in a floating palace.  We, upon our side, ate of
his baked meats with no true animus affiliandi, but moved by the single sentiment of curiosity.
The affair was formal, and a matter of parade, as when in Europe sovereigns call each other
cousin.  Yet, had we stayed at Atuona, Paaaeua would have held himself bound to establish us
upon his land, and to set apart young men for our service, and trees for our support.  I have
mentioned the Austrian.  He sailed in one of two sister ships, which left the Clyde in coal;
both rounded the Horn, and both, at several hundred miles of distance, though close on the
same point of time, took fire at sea on the Pacific.  One was destroyed; the derelict iron
frame of the second, after long, aimless cruising, was at length recovered, refitted, and hails
to-day from San Francisco.  A boat's crew from one of these disasters reached, after great
hardships, the isle of Hiva-oa.  Some of these men vowed they would never again confront the
chances of the sea; but alone of them all the Austrian has been exactly true to his engagement,
remains where he landed, and designs to die where he has lived.  Now, with such a man, falling
and taking root among islanders, the processes described may be compared to a gardener's graft.
He passes bodily into the native stock; ceases wholly to be alien; has entered the commune
of the blood, shares the prosperity and consideration of his new family, and is expected to
impart with the same generosity the fruits of his European skill and knowledge. It is this
implied engagement that so frequently offends the ingrafted white.  To snatch an immediate
advantage--to get (let us say) a station for his store--he will play upon the native custom
and become a son or a brother for the day, promising himself to cast down the ladder by which
he shall have ascended, and repudiate the kinship so soon as it shall grow burdensome.  And
he finds there are two parties to the bargain.  Perhaps his Polynesian relative is simple,
and conceived the blood-bond literally; perhaps he is shrewd, and himself entered the covenant
with a view to gain. And either way the store is ravaged, the house littered with lazy natives;
and the richer the man grows, the more numerous, the more idle, and the more affectionate he
finds his native relatives. Most men thus circumstanced contrive to buy or brutally manage
to enforce their independence; but many vegetate without hope, strangled by parasites.

We had no cause to blush with Brother Michel.  Our new parents were kind, gentle, well-mannered,
and generous in gifts; the wife was a most motherly woman, the husband a man who stood justly
high with his employers.  Enough has been said to show why Moipu should be deposed; and in
Paaaeua the French had found a reputable substitute.  He went always scrupulously dressed,
and looked the picture of propriety, like a dark, handsome, stupid, and probably religious
young man hot from a European funeral.  In character he seemed the ideal of what is known as
the good citizen.  He wore gravity like an ornament.  None could more nicely represent the
desired character as an appointed chief, the outpost of civilisation and reform.  And yet,
were the French to go and native manners to revive, fancy beholds him crowned with old men's
beards and crowding with the first to a man-eating festival.  But I must not seem to be unjust
to Paaaeua.  His respectability went deeper than the skin; his sense of the becoming sometimes
nerved him for unexpected rigours.

One evening Captain Otis and Mr. Osbourne were on shore in the village.  All was agog; dancing
had begun; it was plain it was to be a night of festival, and our adventurers were overjoyed
at their good fortune.  A strong fall of rain drove them for shelter to the house of Paaaeua,
where they were made welcome, wiled into a chamber, and shut in.  Presently the rain took off,
the fun was to begin in earnest, and the young bloods of Atuona came round the house and called
to my fellow-travellers through the interstices of the wall.  Late into the night the calls
were continued and resumed, and sometimes mingled with taunts; late into the night the prisoners,
tantalised by the noises of the festival, renewed their efforts to escape.  But all was vain;
right across the door lay that god-fearing householder, Paaaeua, feigning sleep; and my friends
had to forego their junketing.  In this incident, so delightfully European, we thought we could
detect three strands of sentiment.  In the first place, Paaaeua had a charge of souls: these
were young men, and he judged it right to withhold them from the primrose path.  Secondly,
he was a public character, and it was not fitting that his guests should countenance a festival
of which he disapproved.  So might some strict clergyman at home address a worldly visitor:
'Go to the theatre if you like, but, by your leave, not from my house!'  Thirdly, Paaaeua was
a man jealous, and with some cause (as shall be shown) for jealousy; and the feasters were
the satellites of his immediate rival, Moipu.

For the adoption had caused much excitement in the village; it made the strangers popular.
Paaaeua, in his difficult posture of appointed chief, drew strength and dignity from their
alliance, and only Moipu and his followers were malcontent.  For some reason nobody (except
myself) appears to dislike Moipu.  Captain Hart, who has been robbed and threatened by him;
Father Orens, whom he has fired at, and repeatedly driven to the woods; my own family, and
even the French officials--all seemed smitten with an irrepressible affection for the man.
His fall had been made soft; his son, upon his death, was to succeed Paaaeua in the chieftaincy;
and he lived, at the time of our visit, in the shoreward part of the village in a good house,
and with a strong following of young men, his late braves and pot-hunters.  In this society,
the coming of the Casco, the adoption, the return feast on board, and the presents exchanged
between the whites and their new parents, were doubtless eagerly and bitterly canvassed.  It
was felt that a few years ago the honours would have gone elsewhere.  In this unwonted business,
in this reception of some hitherto undreamed-of and outlandish potentate--some Prester John
or old Assaracus--a few years back it would have been the part of Moipu to play the hero and
the host, and his young men would have accompanied and adorned the various celebrations as
the acknowledged leaders of society.  And now, by a malign vicissitude of fortune, Moipu must
sit in his house quite unobserved; and his young men could but look in at the door while their
rivals feasted.  Perhaps M. Grevy felt a touch of bitterness towards his successor when he
beheld him figure on the broad stage of the centenary of eighty-nine; the visit of the Casco
which Moipu had missed by so few years was a more unusual occasion in Atuona than a centenary
in France; and the dethroned chief determined to reassert himself in the public eye.

Mr. Osbourne had gone into Atuona photographing; the population of the village had gathered
together for the occasion on the place before the church, and Paaaeua, highly delighted with
this new appearance of his family, played the master of ceremonies.  The church had been taken,
with its jolly architect before the door; the nuns with their pupils; sundry damsels in the
ancient and singularly unbecoming robes of tapa; and Father Orens in the midst of a group of
his parishioners.  I know not what else was in hand, when the photographer became aware of
a sensation in the crowd, and, looking around, beheld a very noble figure of a man appear upon
the margin of a thicket and stroll nonchalantly near.  The nonchalance was visibly affected;
it was plain he came there to arouse attention, and his success was instant.  He was introduced;
he was civil, he was obliging, he was always ineffably superior and certain of himself; a well-graced
actor.  It was presently suggested that he should appear in his war costume; he gracefully
consented; and returned in that strange, inappropriate and ill- omened array (which very well
became his handsome person) to strut in a circle of admirers, and be thenceforth the centre
of photography.  Thus had Moipu effected his introduction, as by accident, to the white strangers,
made it a favour to display his finery, and reduced his rival to a secondary role on the theatre
of the disputed village.  Paaaeua felt the blow; and, with a spirit which we never dreamed
he could possess, asserted his priority.  It was found impossible that day to get a photograph
of Moipu alone; for whenever he stood up before the camera his successor placed himself unbidden
by his side, and gently but firmly held to his position.  The portraits of the pair, Jacob
and Esau, standing shoulder to shoulder, one in his careful European dress, one in his barbaric
trappings, figure the past and present of their island.  A graveyard with its humble crosses
would be the aptest symbol of the future.

We are all impressed with the belief that Moipu had planned his campaign from the beginning
to the end.  It is certain that he lost no time in pushing his advantage.  Mr. Osbourne was
inveigled to his house; various gifts were fished out of an old sea-chest; Father Orens was
called into service as interpreter, and Moipu formally proposed to 'make brothers' with Mata-Galahi--Glass-Eyes,-
-the not very euphonious name under which Mr. Osbourne passed in the Marquesas.  The feast
of brotherhood took place on board the Casco.  Paaaeua had arrived with his family, like a
plain man; and his presents, which had been numerous, had followed one another, at intervals
through several days.  Moipu, as if to mark at every point the opposition, came with a certain
feudal pomp, attended by retainers bearing gifts of all descriptions, from plumes of old men's
beard to little, pious, Catholic engravings.

I had met the man before this in the village, and detested him on sight; there was something
indescribably raffish in his looks and ways that raised my gorge; and when man-eating was referred
to, and he laughed a low, cruel laugh, part boastful, part bashful, like one reminded of some
dashing peccadillo, my repugnance was mingled with nausea.  This is no very human attitude,
nor one at all becoming in a traveller.  And, seen more privately, the man improved.  Something
negroid in character and face was still displeasing; but his ugly mouth became attractive when
he smiled, his figure and bearing were certainly noble, and his eyes superb. In his appreciation
of jams and pickles, in is delight in the reverberating mirrors of the dining cabin, and consequent
endless repetition of Moipus and Mata-Galahis, he showed himself engagingly a child.  And yet
I am not sure; and what seemed childishness may have been rather courtly art.  His manners
struck me as beyond the mark; they were refined and caressing to the point of grossness, and
when I think of the serene absent-mindedness with which he first strolled in upon our party,
and then recall him running on hands and knees along the cabin sofas, pawing the velvet, dipping
into the beds, and bleating commendatory 'mitais' with exaggerated emphasis, like some enormous
over-mannered ape, I feel the more sure that both must have been calculated.  And I sometimes
wonder next, if Moipu were quite alone in this polite duplicity, and ask myself whether the
Casco were quite so much admired in the Marquesas as our visitors desired us to suppose.

I will complete this sketch of an incurable cannibal grandee with two incongruous traits. 
His favourite morsel was the human hand, of which he speaks to-day with an ill-favoured lustfulness.
And when he said good-bye to Mrs. Stevenson, holding her hand, viewing her with tearful eyes,
and chanting his farewell improvisation in the falsetto of Marquesan high society, he wrote
upon her mind a sentimental impression which I try in vain to share.

PART II:  THE PAUMOTUS

CHAPTER I--THE DANGEROUS ARCHIPELAGO--ATOLLS AT A DISTANCE

In the early morning of 4th September a whale-boat manned by natives dragged us down the green
lane of the anchorage and round the spouting promontory.  On the shore level it was a hot,
breathless, and yet crystal morning; but high overhead the hills of Atuona were all cowled
in cloud, and the ocean-river of the trades streamed without pause.  As we crawled from under
the immediate shelter of the land, we reached at last the limit of their influence.  The wind
fell upon our sails in puffs, which strengthened and grew more continuous; presently the Casco
heeled down to her day's work; the whale-boat, quite outstripped, clung for a noisy moment
to her quarter; the stipulated bread, rum, and tobacco were passed in; a moment more and the
boat was in our wake, and our late pilots were cheering our departure.

This was the more inspiriting as we were bound for scenes so different, and though on a brief
voyage, yet for a new province of creation.  That wide field of ocean, called loosely the South
Seas, extends from tropic to tropic, and from perhaps 123 degrees W. to 150 degrees E., a parallelogram
of one hundred degrees by forty- seven, where degrees are the most spacious.  Much of it lies
vacant, much is closely sown with isles, and the isles are of two sorts.  No distinction is
so continually dwelt upon in South Sea talk as that between the 'low' and the 'high' island,
and there is none more broadly marked in nature.  The Himalayas are not more different from
the Sahara.  On the one hand, and chiefly in groups of from eight to a dozen, volcanic islands
rise above the sea; few reach an altitude of less than 4000 feet; one exceeds 13,000; their
tops are often obscured in cloud, they are all clothed with various forests, all abound in
food, and are all remarkable for picturesque and solemn scenery.  On the other hand, we have
the atoll; a thing of problematic origin and history, the reputed creature of an insect apparently
unidentified; rudely annular in shape; enclosing a lagoon; rarely extending beyond a quarter
of a mile at its chief width; often rising at its highest point to less than the stature of
a man--man himself, the rat and the land crab, its chief inhabitants; not more variously supplied
with plants; and offering to the eye, even when perfect, only a ring of glittering beach and
verdant foliage, enclosing and enclosed by the blue sea.

In no quarter are the atolls so thickly congregated, in none are they so varied in size from
the greatest to the least, and in none is navigation so beset with perils, as in that archipelago
that we were now to thread.  The huge system of the trades is, for some reason, quite confounded
by this multiplicity of reefs, the wind intermits, squalls are frequent from the west and south-west,
hurricanes are known.  The currents are, besides, inextricably intermixed; dead reckoning becomes
a farce; the charts are not to be trusted; and such is the number and similarity of these islands
that, even when you have picked one up, you may be none the wiser. The reputation of the place
is consequently infamous; insurance offices exclude it from their field, and it was not without
misgiving that my captain risked the Casco in such waters.  I believe, indeed, it is almost
understood that yachts are to avoid this baffling archipelago; and it required all my instances--and
all Mr. Otis's private taste for adventure--to deflect our course across its midst.

For a few days we sailed with a steady trade, and a steady westerly current setting us to leeward;
and toward sundown of the seventh it was supposed we should have sighted Takaroa, one of Cook's
so- called King George Islands.  The sun set; yet a while longer the old moon--semi-brilliant
herself, and with a silver belly, which was her successor--sailed among gathering clouds; she,
too, deserted us; stars of every degree of sheen, and clouds of every variety of form disputed
the sub-lustrous night; and still we gazed in vain for Takaroa.  The mate stood on the bowsprit,
his tall grey figure slashing up and down against the stars, and still

'nihil astra praeter Vidit et undas.

The rest of us were grouped at the port anchor davit, staring with no less assiduity, but with
far less hope on the obscure horizon. Islands we beheld in plenty, but they were of 'such stuff
as dreams are made on,' and vanished at a wink, only to appear in other places; and by and
by not only islands, but refulgent and revolving lights began to stud the darkness; lighthouses
of the mind or of the wearied optic nerve, solemnly shining and winking as we passed. At length
the mate himself despaired, scrambled on board again from his unrestful perch, and announced
that we had missed our destination.  He was the only man of practice in these waters, our sole
pilot, shipped for that end at Tai-o-hae.  If he declared we had missed Takaroa, it was not
for us to quarrel with the fact, but, if we could, to explain it.  We had certainly run down
our southing.  Our canted wake upon the sea and our somewhat drunken- looking course upon the
chart both testified with no less certainty to an impetuous westward current.  We had no choice
but to conclude we were again set down to leeward; and the best we could do was to bring the
Casco to the wind, keep a good watch, and expect morning.

I slept that night, as was then my somewhat dangerous practice, on deck upon the cockpit bench.
A stir at last awoke me, to see all the eastern heaven dyed with faint orange, the binnacle
lamp already dulled against the brightness of the day, and the steersman leaning eagerly across
the wheel.  'There it is, sir!' he cried, and pointed in the very eyeball of the dawn.  For
awhile I could see nothing but the bluish ruins of the morning bank, which lay far along the
horizon, like melting icebergs.  Then the sun rose, pierced a gap in these debris of vapours,
and displayed an inconsiderable islet, flat as a plate upon the sea, and spiked with palms
of disproportioned altitude.

So far, so good.  Here was certainly an atoll; and we were certainly got among the archipelago.
But which?  And where?  The isle was too small for either Takaroa:  in all our neighbourhood,
indeed, there was none so inconsiderable, save only Tikei; and Tikei, one of Roggewein's so-called
Pernicious Islands, seemed beside the question.  At that rate, instead of drifting to the west,
we must have fetched up thirty miles to windward.  And how about the current?  It had been
setting us down, by observation, all these days:  by the deflection of our wake, it should
be setting us down that moment.  When had it stopped?  When had it begun again? and what kind
of torrent was that which had swept us eastward in the interval?  To these questions, so typical
of navigation in that range of isles, I have no answer.  Such were at least the facts; Tikei
our island turned out to be; and it was our first experience of the dangerous archipelago,
to make our landfall thirty miles out.

The sight of Tikei, thrown direct against the splendour of the morning, robbed of all its colour,
and deformed with disproportioned trees like bristles on a broom, had scarce prepared us to
be much in love with atolls.  Later the same day we saw under more fit conditions the island
of Taiaro.  Lost in the Sea is possibly the meaning of the name.  And it was so we saw it;
lost in blue sea and sky:  a ring of white beach, green underwood, and tossing palms, gem-like
in colour; of a fairy, of a heavenly prettiness.  The surf ran all around it, white as snow,
and broke at one point, far to seaward, on what seems an uncharted reef. There was no smoke,
no sign of man; indeed, the isle is not inhabited, only visited at intervals.  And yet a trader
(Mr.  Narii Salmon) was watching from the shore and wondering at the unexpected ship.  I have
spent since then long months upon low islands; I know the tedium of their undistinguished days;
I know the burden of their diet.  With whatever envy we may have looked from the deck on these
green coverts, it was with a tenfold greater that Mr. Salmon and his comrades saw us steer,
in our trim ship, to seaward.

The night fell lovely in the extreme.  After the moon went down, the heaven was a thing to
wonder at for stars.  And as I lay in the cockpit and looked upon the steersman I was haunted
by Emerson's verses:

'And the lone seaman all the night Sails astonished among stars.'

By this glittering and imperfect brightness, about four bells in the first watch we made our
third atoll, Raraka.  The low line of the isle lay straight along the sky; so that I was at
first reminded of a towpath, and we seemed to be mounting some engineered and navigable stream.
Presently a red star appeared, about the height and brightness of a danger signal, and with
that my simile was changed; we seemed rather to skirt the embankment of a railway, and the
eye began to look instinctively for the telegraph-posts, and the ear to expect the coming of
a train.  Here and there, but rarely, faint tree-tops broke the level.  And the sound of the
surf accompanied us, now in a drowsy monotone, now with a menacing swing.

The isle lay nearly east and west, barring our advance on Fakarava. We must, therefore, hug
the coast until we gained the western end, where, through a passage eight miles wide, we might
sail southward between Raraka and the next isle, Kauehi.  We had the wind free, a lightish
air; but clouds of an inky blackness were beginning to arise, and at times it lightened--without
thunder.  Something, I know not what, continually set us up upon the island.  We lay more and
more to the nor'ard; and you would have thought the shore copied our manoeuvre and outsailed
us. Once and twice Raraka headed us again--again, in the sea fashion, the quite innocent steersman
was abused--and again the Casco kept away.  Had I been called on, with no more light than that
of our experience, to draw the configuration of that island, I should have shown a series of
bow- window promontories, each overlapping the other to the nor'ard, and the trend of the land
from the south-east to the north-west, and behold, on the chart it lay near east and west in
a straight line.

We had but just repeated our manoeuvre and kept away--for not more than five minutes the railway
embankment had been lost to view and the surf to hearing--when I was aware of land again, not
only on the weather bow, but dead ahead.  I played the part of the judicious landsman, holding
my peace till the last moment; and presently my mariners perceived it for themselves.

'Land ahead!' said the steersman.

'By God, it's Kauehi!' cried the mate.

And so it was.  And with that I began to be sorry for cartographers.  We were scarce doing
three and a half; and they asked me to believe that (in five minutes) we had dropped an island,
passed eight miles of open water, and run almost high and dry upon the next.  But my captain
was more sorry for himself to be afloat in such a labyrinth; laid the Casco to, with the log
line up and down, and sat on the stern rail and watched it till the morning.  He had enough
of night in the Paumotus.

By daylight on the 9th we began to skirt Kauehi, and had now an opportunity to see near at
hand the geography of atolls.  Here and there, where it was high, the farther side loomed up;
here and there the near side dipped entirely and showed a broad path of water into the lagoon;
here and there both sides were equally abased, and we could look right through the discontinuous
ring to the sea horizon on the south.  Conceive, on a vast scale, the submerged hoop of the
duck-hunter, trimmed with green rushes to conceal his head--water within, water without--you
have the image of the perfect atoll.  Conceive one that has been partly plucked of its rush
fringe; you have the atoll of Kauehi.  And for either shore of it at closer quarters, conceive
the line of some old Roman highway traversing a wet morass, and here sunk out of view and there
re-arising, crowned with a green tuft of thicket; only instead of the stagnant waters of a
marsh, the live ocean now boiled against, now buried the frail barrier.  Last night's impression
in the dark was thus confirmed by day, and not corrected.  We sailed indeed by a mere causeway
in the sea, of nature's handiwork, yet of no greater magnitude than many of the works of man.

The isle was uninhabited; it was all green brush and white sand, set in transcendently blue
water; even the coco-palms were rare, though some of these completed the bright harmony of
colour by hanging out a fan of golden yellow.  For long there was no sign of life beyond the
vegetable, and no sound but the continuous grumble of the surf.  In silence and desertion these
fair shores slipped past, and were submerged and rose again with clumps of thicket from the
sea.  And then a bird or two appeared, hovering and crying; swiftly these became more numerous,
and presently, looking ahead, we were aware of a vast effervescence of winged life.  In this
place the annular isle was mostly under water, carrying here and there on its submerged line
a wooded islet.  Over one of these the birds hung and flew with an incredible density like
that of gnats or hiving bees; the mass flashed white and black, and heaved and quivered, and
the screaming of the creatures rose over the voice of the surf in a shrill clattering whirr.
As you descend some inland valley a not dissimilar sound announces the nearness of a mill and
pouring river.  Some stragglers, as I said, came to meet our approach; a few still hung about
the ship as we departed.  The crying died away, the last pair of wings was left behind, and
once more the low shores of Kauehi streamed past our eyes in silence like a picture.  I supposed
at the time that the birds lived, like ants or citizens, concentred where we saw them.  I have
been told since (I know not if correctly) that the whole isle, or much of it, is similarly
peopled; and that the effervescence at a single spot would be the mark of a boat's crew of
egg-hunters from one of the neighbouring inhabited atolls.  So that here at Kauehi, as the
day before at Taiaro, the Casco sailed by under the fire of unsuspected eyes.  And one thing
is surely true, that even on these ribbons of land an army might lie hid and no passing mariner
divine its presence.

CHAPTER II--FAKARAVA:  AN ATOLL AT HAND

By a little before noon we were running down the coast of our destination, Fakarava:  the air
very light, the sea near smooth; though still we were accompanied by a continuous murmur from
the beach, like the sound of a distant train.  The isle is of a huge longitude, the enclosed
lagoon thirty miles by ten or twelve, and the coral tow-path, which they call the land, some
eighty or ninety miles by (possibly) one furlong.  That part by which we sailed was all raised;
the underwood excellently green, the topping wood of coco-palms continuous--a mark, if I had
known it, of man's intervention.  For once more, and once more unconsciously, we were within
hail of fellow-creatures, and that vacant beach was but a pistol-shot from the capital city
of the archipelago.  But the life of an atoll, unless it be enclosed, passes wholly on the
shores of the lagoon; it is there the villages are seated, there the canoes ply and are drawn
up; and the beach of the ocean is a place accursed and deserted, the fit scene only for wizardry
and shipwreck, and in the native belief a haunting ground of murderous spectres.

By and by we might perceive a breach in the low barrier; the woods ceased; a glittering point
ran into the sea, tipped with an emerald shoal the mark of entrance.  As we drew near we met
a little run of sea--the private sea of the lagoon having there its origin and end, and here,
in the jaws of the gateway, trying vain conclusions with the more majestic heave of the Pacific.
The Casco scarce avowed a shock; but there are times and circumstances when these harbour mouths
of inland basins vomit floods, deflecting, burying, and dismasting ships.  For, conceive a
lagoon perfectly sealed but in the one point, and that of merely navigable width; conceive
the tide and wind to have heaped for hours together in that coral fold a superfluity of waters,
and the tide to change and the wind fall-- the open sluice of some great reservoirs at home
will give an image of the unstemmable effluxion.

We were scarce well headed for the pass before all heads were craned over the rail.  For the
water, shoaling under our board, became changed in a moment to surprising hues of blue and
grey; and in its transparency the coral branched and blossomed, and the fish of the inland
sea cruised visibly below us, stained and striped, and even beaked like parrots.  I have paid
in my time to view many curiosities; never one so curious as that first sight over the ship's
rail in the lagoon of Fakarava.  But let not the reader be deceived with hope.  I have since
entered, I suppose, some dozen atolls in different parts of the Pacific, and the experience
has never been repeated.  That exquisite hue and transparency of submarine day, and these shoals
of rainbow fish, have not enraptured me again.

Before we could raise our eyes from that engaging spectacle the schooner had slipped betwixt
the pierheads of the reef, and was already quite committed to the sea within.  The containing
shores are so little erected, and the lagoon itself is so great, that, for the more part, it
seemed to extend without a check to the horizon. Here and there, indeed, where the reef carried
an inlet, like a signet-ring upon a finger, there would be a pencilling of palms; here and
there, the green wall of wood ran solid for a length of miles; and on the port hand, under
the highest grove of trees, a few houses sparkled white--Rotoava, the metropolitan settlement
of the Paumotus.  Hither we beat in three tacks, and came to an anchor close in shore, in the
first smooth water since we had left San Francisco, five fathoms deep, where a man might look
overboard all day at the vanishing cable, the coral patches, and the many- coloured fish.

Fakarava was chosen to be the seat of Government from nautical considerations only.  It is
eccentrically situate; the productions, even for a low island, poor; the population neither
many nor--for Low Islanders--industrious.  But the lagoon has two good passages, one to leeward,
one to windward, so that in all states of the wind it can be left and entered, and this advantage,
for a government of scattered islands, was decisive.  A pier of coral, landing-stairs, a harbour
light upon a staff and pillar, and two spacious Government bungalows in a handsome fence, give
to the northern end of Rotoava a great air of consequence.  This is confirmed on the one hand
by an empty prison, on the other by a gendarmerie pasted over with hand-bills in Tahitian,
land-law notices from Papeete, and republican sentiments from Paris, signed (a little after
date) 'Jules Grevy, Perihidente.'  Quite at the far end a belfried Catholic chapel concludes
the town; and between, on a smooth floor of white coral sand and under the breezy canopy of
coco-palms, the houses of the natives stand irregularly scattered, now close on the lagoon
for the sake of the breeze, now back under the palms for love of shadow.

Not a soul was to be seen.  But for the thunder of the surf on the far side, it seemed you
might have heard a pin drop anywhere about that capital city.  There was something thrilling
in the unexpected silence, something yet more so in the unexpected sound.  Here before us a
sea reached to the horizon, rippling like an inland mere; and behold! close at our back another
sea assaulted with assiduous fury the reverse of the position.  At night the lantern was run
up and lit a vacant pier.  In one house lights were seen and voices heard, where the population
(I was told) sat playing cards.  A little beyond, from deep in the darkness of the palm- grove,
we saw the glow and smelt the aromatic odour of a coal of cocoa-nut husk, a relic of the evening
kitchen.  Crickets sang; some shrill thing whistled in a tuft of weeds; and the mosquito hummed
and stung.  There was no other trace that night of man, bird, or insect in the isle.  The moon,
now three days old, and as yet but a silver crescent on a still visible sphere, shone through
the palm canopy with vigorous and scattered lights.  The alleys where we walked were smoothed
and weeded like a boulevard; here and there were plants set out; here and there dusky cottages
clustered in the shadow, some with verandahs.  A public garden by night, a rich and fashionable
watering-place in a by-season, offer sights and vistas not dissimilar.  And still, on the one
side, stretched the lapping mere, and from the other the deep sea still growled in the night.
But it was most of all on board, in the dead hours, when I had been better sleeping, that the
spell of Fakarava seized and held me.  The moon was down.  The harbour lantern and two of the
greater planets drew vari-coloured wakes on the lagoon.  From shore the cheerful watch-cry
of cocks rang out at intervals above the organ-point of surf.  And the thought of this depopulated
capital, this protracted thread of annular island with its crest of coco-palms and fringe of
breakers, and that tranquil inland sea that stretched before me till it touched the stars,
ran in my head for hours with delight.

So long as I stayed upon that isle these thoughts were constant.  I lay down to sleep, and
woke again with an unblunted sense of my surroundings.  I was never weary of calling up the
image of that narrow causeway, on which I had my dwelling, lying coiled like a serpent, tail
to mouth, in the outrageous ocean, and I was never weary of passing--a mere quarter-deck parade--from
the one side to the other, from the shady, habitable shores of the lagoon to the blinding desert
and uproarious breakers of the opposite beach.  The sense of insecurity in such a thread of
residence is more than fanciful.  Hurricanes and tidal waves over-leap these humble obstacles;
Oceanus remembers his strength, and, where houses stood and palms flourished, shakes his white
beard again over the barren coral.  Fakarava itself has suffered; the trees immediately beyond
my house were all of recent replantation; and Anaa is only now recovered from a heavier stroke.
I knew one who was then dwelling in the isle.  He told me that he and two ship captains walked
to the sea beach.  There for a while they viewed the oncoming breakers, till one of the captains
clapped suddenly his hand before his eyes and cried aloud that he could endure no longer to
behold them.  This was in the afternoon; in the dark hours of the night the sea burst upon
the island like a flood; the settlement was razed all but the church and presbytery; and, when
day returned, the survivors saw themselves clinging in an abattis of uprooted coco-palms and
ruined houses.

Danger is but a small consideration.  But men are more nicely sensible of a discomfort; and
the atoll is a discomfortable home. There are some, and these probably ancient, where a deep
soil has formed and the most valuable fruit-trees prosper.  I have walked in one, with equal
admiration and surprise, through a forest of huge breadfruits, eating bananas and stumbling
among taro as I went. This was in the atoll of Namorik in the Marshall group, and stands alone
in my experience.  To give the opposite extreme, which is yet far more near the average, I
will describe the soil and productions of Fakarava.  The surface of that narrow strip is for
the more part of broken coral lime-stone, like volcanic clinkers, and excruciating to the naked
foot; in some atolls, I believe, not in Fakarava, it gives a fine metallic ring when struck.
Here and there you come upon a bank of sand, exceeding fine and white, and these parts are
the least productive.  The plants (such as they are) spring from and love the broken coral,
whence they grow with that wonderful verdancy that makes the beauty of the atoll from the sea.
The coco-palm in particular luxuriates in that stern solum, striking down his roots to the
brackish, percolated water, and bearing his green head in the wind with every evidence of health
and pleasure.  And yet even the coco-palm must be helped in infancy with some extraneous nutriment,
and through much of the low archipelago there is planted with each nut a piece of ship's biscuit
and a rusty nail.  The pandanus comes next in importance, being also a food tree; and he, too,
does bravely.  A green bush called miki runs everywhere; occasionally a purao is seen; and
there are several useless weeds.  According to M. Cuzent, the whole number of plants on an
atoll such as Fakarava will scarce exceed, even if it reaches to, one score.  Not a blade of
grass appears; not a grain of humus, save when a sack or two has been imported to make the
semblance of a garden; such gardens as bloom in cities on the window-sill.  Insect life is
sometimes dense; a cloud o' mosquitoes, and, what is far worse, a plague of flies blackening
our food, has sometimes driven us from a meal on Apemama; and even in Fakarava the mosquitoes
were a pest.  The land crab may be seen scuttling to his hole, and at night the rats besiege
the houses and the artificial gardens.  The crab is good eating; possibly so is the rat; I
have not tried.  Pandanus fruit is made, in the Gilberts, into an agreeable sweetmeat, such
as a man may trifle with at the end of a long dinner; for a substantial meal I have no use
for it.  The rest of the food-supply, in a destitute atoll such as Fakarava, can be summed
up in the favourite jest of the archipelago--cocoa-nut beefsteak.  Cocoa-nut green, cocoa-nut
ripe, cocoa-nut germinated; cocoa-nut to eat and cocoa-nut to drink; cocoa-nut raw and cooked,
cocoa-nut hot and cold--such is the bill of fare.  And some of the entrees are no doubt delicious.
The germinated nut, cooked in the shell and eaten with a spoon, forms a good pudding; cocoa-nut
milk--the expressed juice of a ripe nut, not the water of a green one--goes well in coffee,
and is a valuable adjunct in cookery through the South Seas; and cocoa-nut salad, if you be
a millionaire, and can afford to eat the value of a field of corn for your dessert, is a dish
to be remembered with affection.  But when all is done there is a sameness, and the Israelites
of the low islands murmur at their manna.

The reader may think I have forgot the sea.  The two beaches do certainly abound in life, and
they are strangely different.  In the lagoon the water shallows slowly on a bottom of the fine
slimy sand, dotted with clumps of growing coral.  Then comes a strip of tidal beach on which
the ripples lap.  In the coral clumps the great holy-water clam (Tridacna) grows plentifully;
a little deeper lie the beds of the pearl-oyster and sail the resplendent fish that charmed
us at our entrance; and these are all more or less vigorously coloured.  But the other shells
are white like lime, or faintly tinted with a little pink, the palest possible display; many
of them dead besides, and badly rolled.  On the ocean side, on the mounds of the steep beach,
over all the width of the reef right out to where the surf is bursting, in every cranny, under
every scattered fragment of the coral, an incredible plenty of marine life displays the most
wonderful variety and brilliancy of hues. The reef itself has no passage of colour but is imitated
by some shell.  Purple and red and white, and green and yellow, pied and striped and clouded,
the living shells wear in every combination the livery of the dead reef--if the reef be dead--so
that the eye is continually baffled and the collector continually deceived.  I have taken shells
for stones and stones for shells, the one as often as the other.  A prevailing character of
the coral is to be dotted with small spots of red, and it is wonderful how many varieties of
shell have adopted the same fashion and donned the disguise of the red spot.  A shell I had
found in plenty in the Marquesas I found here also unchanged in all things else, but there
were the red spots.  A lively little crab wore the same markings. The case of the hermit or
soldier crab was more conclusive, being the result of conscious choice.  This nasty little
wrecker, scavenger, and squatter has learned the value of a spotted house; so it be of the
right colour he will choose the smallest shard, tuck himself in a mere corner of a broken whorl,
and go about the world half naked; but I never found him in this imperfect armour unless it
was marked with the red spot.

Some two hundred yards distant is the beach of the lagoon.  Collect the shells from each, set
them side by side, and you would suppose they came from different hemispheres; the one so pale,
the other so brilliant; the one prevalently white, the other of a score of hues, and infected
with the scarlet spot like a disease.  This seems the more strange, since the hermit crabs
pass and repass the island, and I have met them by the Residency well, which is about central,
journeying either way.  Without doubt many of the shells in the lagoon are dead.  But why are
they dead?  Without doubt the living shells have a very different background set for imitation.
But why are these so different?  We are only on the threshold of the mysteries.

Either beach, I have said, abounds with life.  On the sea-side and in certain atolls this profusion
of vitality is even shocking:  the rock under foot is mined with it.  I have broken off--notably
in Funafuti and Arorai--great lumps of ancient weathered rock that rang under my blows like
iron, and the fracture has been full of pendent worms as long as my hand, as thick as a child's
finger, of a slightly pinkish white, and set as close as three or even four to the square inch.
Even in the lagoon, where certain shell-fish seem to sicken, others (it is notorious) prosper
exceedingly and make the riches of these islands.  Fish, too, abound; the lagoon is a closed
fish-pond, such as might rejoice the fancy of an abbot; sharks swarm there, and chiefly round
the passages, to feast upon this plenty, and you would suppose that man had only to prepare
his angle.  Alas! it is not so.  Of these painted fish that came in hordes about the entering
Casco, some bore poisonous spines, and others were poisonous if eaten.  The stranger must refrain,
or take his chance of painful and dangerous sickness.  The native, on his own isle, is a safe
guide; transplant him to the next, and he is helpless as yourself.  For it is a question both
of time and place. A fish caught in a lagoon may be deadly; the same fish caught the same day
at sea, and only a few hundred yards without the passage, will be wholesome eating:  in a neighbouring
isle perhaps the case will be reversed; and perhaps a fortnight later you shall be able to
eat of them indifferently from within and from without. According to the natives, these bewildering
vicissitudes are ruled by the movement of the heavenly bodies.  The beautiful planet Venus
plays a great part in all island tales and customs; and among other functions, some of them
more awful, she regulates the season of good fish.  With Venus in one phase, as we had her,
certain fish were poisonous in the lagoon:  with Venus in another, the same fish was harmless
and a valued article of diet.  White men explain these changes by the phases of the coral.

It adds a last touch of horror to the thought of this precarious annular gangway in the sea,
that even what there is of it is not of honest rock, but organic, part alive, part putrescent;
even the clean sea and the bright fish about it poisoned, the most stubborn boulder burrowed
in by worms, the lightest dust venomous as an apothecary's drugs.

CHAPTER III--A HOUSE TO LET IN A LOW ISLAND

Never populous, it was yet by a chapter of accidents that I found the island so deserted that
no sound of human life diversified the hours; that we walked in that trim public garden of
a town, among closed houses, without even a lodging-bill in a window to prove some tenancy
in the back quarters; and, when we visited the Government bungalow, that Mr. Donat, acting
Vice-Resident, greeted us alone, and entertained us with cocoa-nut punches in the Sessions
Hall and seat of judgment of that widespread archipelago, our glasses standing arrayed with
summonses and census returns.  The unpopularity of a late Vice-Resident had begun the movement
of exodus, his native employes resigning court appointments and retiring each to his own coco-patch
in the remoter districts of the isle.  Upon the back of that, the Governor in Papeete issued
a decree:  All land in the Paumotus must be defined and registered by a certain date.  Now,
the folk of the archipelago are half nomadic; a man can scarce be said to belong to a particular
atoll; he belongs to several, perhaps holds a stake and counts cousinship in half a score;
and the inhabitants of Rotoava in particular, man, woman, and child, and from the gendarme
to the Mormon prophet and the schoolmaster, owned--I was going to say land--owned at least
coral blocks and growing coco-palms in some adjacent isle. Thither--from the gendarme to the
babe in arms, the pastor followed by his flock, the schoolmaster carrying along with him his
scholars, and the scholars with their books and slates--they had taken ship some two days previous
to our arrival, and were all now engaged disputing boundaries.  Fancy overhears the shrillness
of their disputation mingle with the surf and scatter sea-fowl.  It was admirable to observe
the completeness of their flight, like that of hibernating birds; nothing left but empty houses,
like old nests to be reoccupied in spring; and even the harmless necessary dominie borne with
them in their transmigration.  Fifty odd set out, and only seven, I was informed, remained.
But when I made a feast on board the Casco, more than seven, and nearer seven times seven,
appeared to be my guests.  Whence they appeared, how they were summoned, whither they vanished
when the feast was eaten, I have no guess.  In view of Low Island tales, and that awful frequentation
which makes men avoid the seaward beaches of an atoll, some two score of those that ate with
us may have returned, for the occasion, from the kingdom of the dead.

It was this solitude that put it in our minds to hire a house, and become, for the time being,
indwellers of the isle--a practice I have ever since, when it was possible, adhered to.  Mr.
Donat placed us, with that intent, under the convoy of one Taniera Mahinui, who combined the
incongruous characters of catechist and convict.  The reader may smile, but I affirm he was
well qualified for either part.  For that of convict, first of all, by a good substantial felony,
such as in all lands casts the perpetrator in chains and dungeons.  Taniera was a man of birth--the
chief a while ago, as he loved to tell, of a district in Anaa of 800 souls.  In an evil hour
it occurred to the authorities in Papeete to charge the chiefs with the collection of the taxes.
It is a question if much were collected; it is certain that nothing was handed on; and Taniera,
who had distinguished himself by a visit to Papeete and some high living in restaurants, was
chosen for the scapegoat.  The reader must understand that not Taniera but the authorities
in Papeete were first in fault.  The charge imposed was disproportioned.  I have not yet heard
of any Polynesian capable of such a burden; honest and upright Hawaiians--one in particular,
who was admired even by the whites as an inflexible magistrate--have stumbled in the narrow
path of the trustee.  And Taniera, when the pinch came, scorned to denounce accomplices; others
had shared the spoil, he bore the penalty alone.  He was condemned in five years. The period,
when I had the pleasure of his friendship, was not yet expired; he still drew prison rations,
the sole and not unwelcome reminder of his chains, and, I believe, looked forward to the date
of his enfranchisement with mere alarm.  For he had no sense of shame in the position; complained
of nothing but the defective table of his place of exile; regretted nothing but the fowls and
eggs and fish of his own more favoured island.  And as for his parishioners, they did not think
one hair the less of him.  A schoolboy, mulcted in ten thousand lines of Greek and dwelling
sequestered in the dormitories, enjoys unabated consideration from his fellows.  So with Taniera:
a marked man, not a dishonoured; having fallen under the lash of the unthinkable gods; a Job,
perhaps, or say a Taniera in the den of lions.  Songs are likely made and sung about this saintly
Robin Hood.  On the other hand, he was even highly qualified for his office in the Church;
being by nature a grave, considerate, and kindly man; his face rugged and serious, his smile
bright; the master of several trades, a builder both of boats and houses; endowed with a fine
pulpit voice; endowed besides with such a gift of eloquence that at the grave of the late chief
of Fakarava he set all the assistants weeping.  I never met a man of a mind more ecclesiastical;
he loved to dispute and to inform himself of doctrine and the history of sects; and when I
showed him the cuts in a volume of Chambers's Encyclopaedia--except for one of an ape--reserved
his whole enthusiasm for cardinals' hats, censers, candlesticks, and cathedrals.  Methought
when he looked upon the cardinal's hat a voice said low in his ear:  'Your foot is on the ladder.'

Under the guidance of Taniera we were soon installed in what I believe to have been the best-appointed
private house in Fakarava. It stood just beyond the church in an oblong patch of cultivation.
More than three hundred sacks of soil were imported from Tahiti for the Residency garden; and
this must shortly be renewed, for the earth blows away, sinks in crevices of the coral, and
is sought for at last in vain.  I know not how much earth had gone to the garden of my villa;
some at least, for an alley of prosperous bananas ran to the gate, and over the rest of the
enclosure, which was covered with the usual clinker-like fragments of smashed coral, not only
coco-palms and mikis but also fig-trees flourished, all of a delicious greenness.  Of course
there was no blade of grass.  In front a picket fence divided us from the white road, the palm-
fringed margin of the lagoon, and the lagoon itself, reflecting clouds by day and stars by
night.  At the back, a bulwark of uncemented coral enclosed us from the narrow belt of bush
and the nigh ocean beach where the seas thundered, the roar and wash of them still humming
in the chambers of the house.

This itself was of one story, verandahed front and back.  It contained three rooms, three sewing-machines,
three sea-chests, chairs, tables, a pair of beds, a cradle, a double-barrelled gun, a pair
of enlarged coloured photographs, a pair of coloured prints after Wilkie and Mulready, and
a French lithograph with the legend: 'Le brigade du General Lepasset brulant son drapeau devant
Metz.' Under the stilts of the house a stove was rusting, till we drew it forth and put it
in commission.  Not far off was the burrow in the coral whence we supplied ourselves with brackish
water.  There was live stock, besides, on the estate--cocks and hens and a brace of ill-regulated
cats, whom Taniera came every morning with the sun to feed on grated cocoa-nut.  His voice
was our regular reveille, ringing pleasantly about the garden:  'Pooty--pooty--poo--poo-- poo!'

Far as we were from the public offices, the nearness of the chapel made our situation what
is called eligible in advertisements, and gave us a side look on some native life.  Every morning,
as soon as he had fed the fowls, Taniera set the bell agoing in the small belfry; and the faithful,
who were not very numerous, gathered to prayers.  I was once present:  it was the Lord's day,
and seven females and eight males composed the congregation.  A woman played precentor, starting
with a longish note; the catechist joined in upon the second bar; and then the faithful in
a body.  Some had printed hymn-books which they followed; some of the rest filled up with 'eh--eh--eh,'
the Paumotuan tol-de-rol.  After the hymn, we had an antiphonal prayer or two; and then Taniera
rose from the front bench, where he had been sitting in his catechist's robes, passed within
the altar-rails, opened his Tahitian Bible, and began to preach from notes.  I understood one
word--the name of God; but the preacher managed his voice with taste, used rare and expressive
gestures, and made a strong impression of sincerity.  The plain service, the vernacular Bible,
the hymn-tunes mostly on an English pattern--'God save the Queen,' I was informed, a special
favourite,--all, save some paper flowers upon the altar, seemed not merely but austerely Protestant.
It is thus the Catholics have met their low island proselytes half-way.

Taniera had the keys of our house; it was with him I made my bargain, if that could be called
a bargain in which all was remitted to my generosity; it was he who fed the cats and poultry,
he who came to call and pick a meal with us like an acknowledged friend; and we long fondly
supposed he was our landlord.  This belief was not to bear the test of experience; and, as
my chapter has to relate, no certainty succeeded it.

We passed some days of airless quiet and great heat; shell- gatherers were warned from the
ocean beach, where sunstroke waited them from ten till four; the highest palm hung motionless,
there was no voice audible but that of the sea on the far side.  At last, about four of a certain
afternoon, long cat's-paws flawed the face of the lagoon; and presently in the tree-tops there
awoke the grateful bustle of the trades, and all the houses and alleys of the island were fanned
out.  To more than one enchanted ship, that had lain long becalmed in view of the green shore,
the wind brought deliverance; and by daylight on the morrow a schooner and two cutters lay
moored in the port of Rotoava.  Not only in the outer sea, but in the lagoon itself, a certain
traffic woke with the reviving breeze; and among the rest one Francois, a half-blood, set sail
with the first light in his own half-decked cutter.  He had held before a court appointment;
being, I believe, the Residency sweeper-out.  Trouble arising with the unpopular Vice-Resident,
he had thrown his honours down, and fled to the far parts of the atoll to plant cabbages--or
at least coco-palms.  Thence he was now driven by such need as even a Cincinnatus must acknowledge,
and fared for the capital city, the seat of his late functions, to exchange half a ton of copra
for necessary flour.  And here, for a while, the story leaves to tell of his voyaging.

It must tell, instead, of our house, where, toward seven at night, the catechist came suddenly
in with his pleased air of being welcome; armed besides with a considerable bunch of keys.
These he proceeded to try on the sea-chests, drawing each in turn from its place against the
wall.  Heads of strangers appeared in the doorway and volunteered suggestions.  All in vain.
Either they were the wrong keys or the wrong boxes, or the wrong man was trying them. For a
little Taniera fumed and fretted; then had recourse to the more summary method of the hatchet;
one of the chests was broken open, and an armful of clothing, male and female, baled out and
handed to the strangers on the verandah.

These were Francois, his wife, and their child.  About eight a.m., in the midst of the lagoon,
their cutter had capsized in jibbing. They got her righted, and though she was still full of
water put the child on board.  The mainsail had been carried away, but the jib still drew her
sluggishly along, and Francois and the woman swam astern and worked the rudder with their hands.
The cold was cruel; the fatigue, as time went on, became excessive; and in that preserve of
sharks, fear hunted them.  Again and again, Francois, the half-breed, would have desisted and
gone down; but the woman, whole blood of an amphibious race, still supported him with cheerful
words.  I am reminded of a woman of Hawaii who swam with her husband, I dare not say how many
miles, in a high sea, and came ashore at last with his dead body in her arms.  It was about
five in the evening, after nine hours' swimming, that Francois and his wife reached land at
Rotoava.  The gallant fight was won, and instantly the more childish side of native character
appears.  They had supped, and told and retold their story, dripping as they came; the flesh
of the woman, whom Mrs. Stevenson helped to shift, was cold as stone; and Francois, having
changed to a dry cotton shirt and trousers, passed the remainder of the evening on my floor
and between open doorways, in a thorough draught.  Yet Francois, the son of a French father,
speaks excellent French himself and seems intelligent.

It was our first idea that the catechist, true to his evangelical vocation, was clothing the
naked from his superfluity.  Then it came out that Francois was but dealing with his own. 
The clothes were his, so was the chest, so was the house.  Francois was in fact the landlord.
Yet you observe he had hung back on the verandah while Taniera tried his 'prentice hand upon
the locks:  and even now, when his true character appeared, the only use he made of the estate
was to leave the clothes of his family drying on the fence. Taniera was still the friend of
the house, still fed the poultry, still came about us on his daily visits, Francois, during
the remainder of his stay, holding bashfully aloof.  And there was stranger matter.  Since
Francois had lost the whole load of his cutter, the half ton of copra, an axe, bowls, knives,
and clothes-- since he had in a manner to begin the world again, and his necessary flour was
not yet bought or paid for--I proposed to advance him what he needed on the rent.  To my enduring
amazement he refused, and the reason he gave--if that can be called a reason which but darkens
counsel--was that Taniera was his friend.  His friend, you observe; not his creditor.  I inquired
into that, and was assured that Taniera, an exile in a strange isle, might possibly be in debt
himself, but certainly was no man's creditor.

Very early one morning we were awakened by a bustling presence in the yard, and found our camp
had been surprised by a tall, lean old native lady, dressed in what were obviously widow's
weeds.  You could see at a glance she was a notable woman, a housewife, sternly practical,
alive with energy, and with fine possibilities of temper.  Indeed, there was nothing native
about her but the skin; and the type abounds, and is everywhere respected, nearer home.  It
did us good to see her scour the grounds, examining the plants and chickens; watering, feeding,
trimming them; taking angry, purpose- like possession.  When she neared the house our sympathy
abated; when she came to the broken chest I wished I were elsewhere.  We had scarce a word
in common; but her whole lean body spoke for her with indignant eloquence.  'My chest!' it
cried, with a stress on the possessive.  'My chest--broken open!  This is a fine state of things!'
I hastened to lay the blame where it belonged--on Francois and his wife--and found I had made
things worse instead of better.  She repeated the names at first with incredulity, then with
despair.  A while she seemed stunned, next fell to disembowelling the box, piling the goods
on the floor, and visibly computing the extent of Francois's ravages; and presently after she
was observed in high speech with Taniera, who seemed to hang an ear like one reproved.

Here, then, by all known marks, should be my land-lady at last; here was every character of
the proprietor fully developed.  Should I not approach her on the still depending question
of my rent?  I carried the point to an adviser.  'Nonsense!' he cried.  'That's the old woman,
the mother.  It doesn't belong to her.  I believe that's the man the house belongs to,' and
he pointed to one of the coloured photographs on the wall.  On this I gave up all desire of
understanding; and when the time came for me to leave, in the judgment-hall of the archipelago,
and with the awful countenance of the acting Governor, I duly paid my rent to Taniera.  He
was satisfied, and so was I.  But what had he to do with it?  Mr. Donat, acting magistrate
and a man of kindred blood, could throw no light upon the mystery; a plain private person,
with a taste for letters, cannot be expected to do more.

CHAPTER IV--TRAITS AND SECTS IN THE PAUMOTUS

The most careless reader must have remarked a change of air since the Marquesas.  The house,
crowded with effects, the bustling housewife counting her possessions, the serious, indoctrinated
island pastor, the long fight for life in the lagoon:  here are traits of a new world.  I read
in a pamphlet (I will not give the author's name) that the Marquesan especially resembles the
Paumotuan.  I should take the two races, though so near in neighbourhood, to be extremes of
Polynesian diversity.  The Marquesan is certainly the most beautiful of human races, and one
of the tallest--the Paumotuan averaging a good inch shorter, and not even handsome; the Marquesan
open-handed, inert, insensible to religion, childishly self-indulgent--the Paumotuan greedy,
hardy, enterprising, a religious disputant, and with a trace of the ascetic character.

Yet a few years ago, and the people of the archipelago were crafty savages.  Their isles might
be called sirens' isles, not merely from the attraction they exerted on the passing mariner,
but from the perils that awaited him on shore.  Even to this day, in certain outlying islands,
danger lingers; and the civilized Paumotuan dreads to land and hesitates to accost his backward
brother.  But, except in these, to-day the peril is a memory.  When our generation were yet
in the cradle and playroom it was still a living fact. Between 1830 and 1840, Hao, for instance,
was a place of the most dangerous approach, where ships were seized and crews kidnapped. As
late as 1856, the schooner Sarah Ann sailed from Papeete and was seen no more.  She had women
on board, and children, the captain's wife, a nursemaid, a baby, and the two young sons of
a Captain Steven on their way to the mainland for schooling.  All were supposed to have perished
in a squall.  A year later, the captain of the Julia, coasting along the island variously called
Bligh, Lagoon, and Tematangi saw armed natives follow the course of his schooner, clad in many-coloured
stuffs.  Suspicion was at once aroused; the mother of the lost children was profuse of money;
and one expedition having found the place deserted, and returned content with firing a few
shots, she raised and herself accompanied another.  None appeared to greet or to oppose them;
they roamed a while among abandoned huts and empty thickets; then formed two parties and set
forth to beat, from end to end, the pandanus jungle of the island.  One man remained alone
by the landing-place--Teina, a chief of Anaa, leader of the armed natives who made the strength
of the expedition.  Now that his comrades were departed this way and that, on their laborious
exploration, the silence fell profound; and this silence was the ruin of the islanders.  A
sound of stones rattling caught the ear of Teina.  He looked, thinking to perceive a crab,
and saw instead the brown hand of a human being issue from a fissure in the ground.  A shout
recalled the search parties and announced their doom to the buried caitiffs.  In the cave below,
sixteen were found crouching among human bones and singular and horrid curiosities.  One was
a head of golden hair, supposed to be a relic of the captain's wife; another was half of the
body of a European child, sun-dried and stuck upon a stick, doubtless with some design of wizardry.

The Paumotuan is eager to be rich.  He saves, grudges, buries money, fears not work.  For a
dollar each, two natives passed the hours of daylight cleaning our ship's copper.  It was strange
to see them so indefatigable and so much at ease in the water--working at times with their
pipes lighted, the smoker at times submerged and only the glowing bowl above the surface; it
was stranger still to think they were next congeners to the incapable Marquesan.  But the Paumotuan
not only saves, grudges, and works, he steals besides; or, to be more precise, he swindles.
He will never deny a debt, he only flees his creditor.  He is always keen for an advance; so
soon as he has fingered it he disappears.  He knows your ship; so soon as it nears one island,
he is off to another. You may think you know his name; he has already changed it. Pursuit in
that infinity of isles were fruitless.  The result can be given in a nutshell.  It has been
actually proposed in a Government report to secure debts by taking a photograph of the debtor;
and the other day in Papeete credits on the Paumotus to the amount of sixteen thousand pounds
were sold for less than forty-- quatre cent mille francs pour moins de mille francs.  Even
so, the purchase was thought hazardous; and only the man who made it and who had special opportunities
could have dared to give so much.

The Paumotuan is sincerely attached to those of his own blood and household.  A touching affection
sometimes unites wife and husband. Their children, while they are alive, completely rule them;
after they are dead, their bones or their mummies are often jealously preserved and carried
from atoll to atoll in the wanderings of the family.  I was told there were many houses in
Fakarava with the mummy of a child locked in a sea-chest; after I heard it, I would glance
a little jealously at those by my own bed; in that cupboard, also, it was possible there was
a tiny skeleton.

The race seems in a fair way to survive.  From fifteen islands, whose rolls I had occasion
to consult, I found a proportion of 59 births to 47 deaths for 1887.  Dropping three out of
the fifteen, there remained for the other twelve the comfortable ratio of 50 births to 32 deaths.
Long habits of hardship and activity doubtless explain the contrast with Marquesan figures.
But the Paumotuan displays, besides, a certain concern for health and the rudiments of a sanitary
discipline.  Public talk with these free- spoken people plays the part of the Contagious Diseases
Act; in- comers to fresh islands anxiously inquire if all be well; and syphilis, when contracted,
is successfully treated with indigenous herbs.  Like their neighbours of Tahiti, from whom
they have perhaps imbibed the error, they regard leprosy with comparative indifference, elephantiasis
with disproportionate fear.  But, unlike indeed to the Tahitian, their alarm puts on the guise
of self-defence.  Any one stricken with this painful and ugly malady is confined to the ends
of villages, denied the use of paths and highways, and condemned to transport himself between
his house and coco-patch by water only, his very footprint being held infectious. Fe'efe'e,
being a creature of marshes and the sequel of malarial fever, is not original in atolls.  On
the single isle of Makatea, where the lagoon is now a marsh, the disease has made a home. 
Many suffer; they are excluded (if Mr. Wilmot be right) from much of the comfort of society;
and it is believed they take a secret vengeance.  The defections of the sick are considered
highly poisonous.  Early in the morning, it is narrated, aged and malicious persons creep into
the sleeping village, and stealthily make water at the doors of the houses of young men.  Thus
they propagate disease; thus they breathe on and obliterate comeliness and health, the objects
of their envy.  Whether horrid fact or more abominable legend, it equally depicts that something
bitter and energetic which distinguishes Paumotuan man.

The archipelago is divided between two main religions, Catholic and Mormon.  They front each
other proudly with a false air of permanence; yet are but shapes, their membership in a perpetual
flux.  The Mormon attends mass with devotion:  the Catholic sits attentive at a Mormon sermon,
and to-morrow each may have transferred allegiance.  One man had been a pillar of the Church
of Rome for fifteen years; his wife dying, he decided that must be a poor religion that could
not save a man his wife, and turned Mormon.  According to one informant, Catholicism was the
more fashionable in health, but on the approach of sickness it was judged prudent to secede.
As a Mormon, there were five chances out of six you might recover; as a Catholic, your hopes
were small; and this opinion is perhaps founded on the comfortable rite of unction.

We all know what Catholics are, whether in the Paumotus or at home. But the Paumotuan Mormon
seemed a phenomenon apart.  He marries but the one wife, uses the Protestant Bible, observes
Protestant forms of worship, forbids the use of liquor and tobacco, practises adult baptism
by immersion, and after every public sin, rechristens the backslider.  I advised with Mahinui,
whom I found well informed in the history of the American Mormons, and he declared against
the least connection.  'Pour moi,' said he, with a fine charity, 'les Mormons ici un petit
Catholiques.'  Some months later I had an opportunity to consult an orthodox fellow-countryman,
an old dissenting Highlander, long settled in Tahiti, but still breathing of the heather of
Tiree.  'Why do they call themselves Mormons?' I asked.  'My dear, and that is my question!'
he exclaimed.  'For by all that I can hear of their doctrine, I have nothing to say against
it, and their life, it is above reproach.'  And for all that, Mormons they are, but of the
earlier sowing:  the so-called Josephites, the followers of Joseph Smith, the opponents of
Brigham Young.

Grant, then, the Mormons to be Mormons.  Fresh points at once arise:  What are the Israelites?
and what the Kanitus?  For a long while back the sect had been divided into Mormons proper
and so- called Israelites, I never could hear why.  A few years since there came a visiting
missionary of the name of Williams, who made an excellent collection, and retired, leaving
fresh disruption imminent.  Something irregular (as I was told) in his way of 'opening the
service' had raised partisans and enemies; the church was once more rent asunder; and a new
sect, the Kanitu, issued from the division.  Since then Kanitus and Israelites, like the Cameronians
and the United Presbyterians, have made common cause; and the ecclesiastical history of the
Paumotus is, for the moment, uneventful.  There will be more doing before long, and these isles
bid fair to be the Scotland of the South.  Two things I could never learn.  The nature of the
innovations of the Rev. Mr. Williams none would tell me, and of the meaning of the name Kanitu
none had a guess.  It was not Tahitian, it was not Marquesan; it formed no part of that ancient
speech of the Paumotus, now passing swiftly into obsolescence.  One man, a priest, God bless
him! said it was the Latin for a little dog.  I have found it since as the name of a god in
New Guinea; it must be a bolder man than I who should hint at a connection.  Here, then, is
a singular thing:  a brand-new sect, arising by popular acclamation, and a nonsense word invented
for its name.

The design of mystery seems obvious, and according to a very intelligent observer, Mr. Magee
of Mangareva, this element of the mysterious is a chief attraction of the Mormon Church.  It
enjoys some of the status of Freemasonry at home, and there is for the convert some of the
exhilaration of adventure.  Other attractions are certainly conjoined.  Perpetual rebaptism,
leading to a succession of baptismal feasts, is found, both from the social and the spiritual
side, a pleasing feature.  More important is the fact that all the faithful enjoy office; perhaps
more important still, the strictness of the discipline.  'The veto on liquor,' said Mr. Magee,
'brings them plenty members.'  There is no doubt these islanders are fond of drink, and no
doubt they refrain from the indulgence; a bout on a feast-day, for instance, may be followed
by a week or a month of rigorous sobriety.  Mr. Wilmot attributes this to Paumotuan frugality
and the love of hoarding; it goes far deeper.  I have mentioned that I made a feast on board
the Casco. To wash down ship's bread and jam, each guest was given the choice of rum or syrup,
and out of the whole number only one man voted--in a defiant tone, and amid shouts of mirth--for
'Trum'!  This was in public.  I had the meanness to repeat the experiment, whenever I had a
chance, within the four walls of my house; and three at least, who had refused at the festival,
greedily drank rum behind a door.  But there were others thoroughly consistent.  I said the
virtues of the race were bourgeois and puritan; and how bourgeois is this! how puritanic! how
Scottish! and how Yankee!--the temptation, the resistance, the public hypocritical conformity,
the Pharisees, the Holy Willies, and the true disciples.  With such a people the popularity
of an ascetic Church appears legitimate; in these strict rules, in this perpetual supervision,
the weak find their advantage, the strong a certain pleasure; and the doctrine of rebaptism,
a clean bill and a fresh start, will comfort many staggering professors.

There is yet another sect, or what is called a sect--no doubt improperly--that of the Whistlers.
Duncan Cameron, so clear in favour of the Mormons, was no less loud in condemnation of the
Whistlers.  Yet I do not know; I still fancy there is some connection, perhaps fortuitous,
probably disavowed.  Here at least are some doings in the house of an Israelite clergyman (or
prophet) in the island of Anaa, of which I am equally sure that Duncan would disclaim and the
Whistlers hail them for an imitation of their own. My informant, a Tahitian and a Catholic,
occupied one part of the house; the prophet and his family lived in the other.  Night after
night the Mormons, in the one end, held their evening sacrifice of song; night after night,
in the other, the wife of the Tahitian lay awake and listened to their singing with amazement.
At length she could contain herself no longer, woke her husband, and asked him what he heard.
'I hear several persons singing hymns,' said he. 'Yes,' she returned, 'but listen again!  Do
you not hear something supernatural?'  His attention thus directed, he was aware of a strange
buzzing voice--and yet he declared it was beautiful--which justly accompanied the singers.
The next day he made inquiries. 'It is a spirit,' said the prophet, with entire simplicity,
'which has lately made a practice of joining us at family worship.'  It did not appear the
thing was visible, and like other spirits raised nearer home in these degenerate days, it was
rudely ignorant, at first could only buzz, and had only learned of late to bear a part correctly
in the music.

The performances of the Whistlers are more business-like.  Their meetings are held publicly
with open doors, all being 'cordially invited to attend.'  The faithful sit about the room--according
to one informant, singing hymns; according to another, now singing and now whistling; the leader,
the wizard--let me rather say, the medium--sits in the midst, enveloped in a sheet and silent;
and presently, from just above his head, or sometimes from the midst of the roof, an aerial
whistling proceeds, appalling to the inexperienced.  This, it appears, is the language of the
dead; its purport is taken down progressively by one of the experts, writing, I was told, 'as
fast as a telegraph operator'; and the communications are at last made public.  They are of
the baldest triviality; a schooner is, perhaps, announced, some idle gossip reported of a neighbour,
or if the spirit shall have been called to consultation on a case of sickness, a remedy may
be suggested.  One of these, immersion in scalding water, not long ago proved fatal to the
patient.  The whole business is very dreary, very silly, and very European; it has none of
the picturesque qualities of similar conjurations in New Zealand; it seems to possess no kernel
of possible sense, like some that I shall describe among the Gilbert islanders.  Yet I was
told that many hardy, intelligent natives were inveterate Whistlers.  'Like Mahinui?' I asked,
willing to have a standard; and I was told 'Yes.'  Why should I wonder?  Men more enlightened
than my convict-catechist sit down at home to follies equally sterile and dull.

The medium is sometimes female.  It was a woman, for instance, who introduced these practices
on the north coast of Taiarapu, to the scandal of her own connections, her brother-in-law in
particular declaring she was drunk.  But what shocked Tahiti might seem fit enough in the Paumotus,
the more so as certain women there possess, by the gift of nature, singular and useful powers.
They say they are honest, well-intentioned ladies, some of them embarrassed by their weird
inheritance.  And indeed the trouble caused by this endowment is so great, and the protection
afforded so infinitesimally small, that I hesitate whether to call it a gift or a hereditary
curse.  You may rob this lady's coco-patch, steal her canoes, burn down her house, and slay
her family scatheless; but one thing you must not do:  you must not lay a hand upon her sleeping-mat,
or your belly will swell, and you can only be cured by the lady or her husband.  Here is the
report of an eye-witness, Tasmanian born, educated, a man who has made money--certainly no
fool.  In 1886 he was present in a house on Makatea, where two lads began to skylark on the
mats, and were (I think) ejected. Instantly after, their bellies began to swell; pains took
hold on them; all manner of island remedies were exhibited in vain, and rubbing only magnified
their sufferings.  The man of the house was called, explained the nature of the visitation,
and prepared the cure.  A cocoa-nut was husked, filled with herbs, and with all the ceremonies
of a launch, and the utterance of spells in the Paumotuan language, committed to the sea. 
From that moment the pains began to grow more easy and the swelling to subside.  The reader
may stare.  I can assure him, if he moved much among old residents of the archipelago, he would
be driven to admit one thing of two--either that there is something in the swollen bellies
or nothing in the evidence of man.

I have not met these gifted ladies; but I had an experience of my own, for I have played, for
one night only, the part of the whistling spirit.  It had been blowing wearily all day, but
with the fall of night the wind abated, and the moon, which was then full, rolled in a clear
sky.  We went southward down the island on the side of the lagoon, walking through long-drawn
forest aisles of palm, and on a floor of snowy sand.  No life was abroad, nor sound of life;
till in a clear part of the isle we spied the embers of a fire, and not far off, in a dark
house, heard natives talking softly.  To sit without a light, even in company, and under cover,
is for a Paumotuan a somewhat hazardous extreme.  The whole scene-- the strong moonlight and
crude shadows on the sand, the scattered coals, the sound of the low voices from the house,
and the lap of the lagoon along the beach--put me (I know not how) on thoughts of superstition.
I was barefoot, I observed my steps were noiseless, and drawing near to the dark house, but
keeping well in shadow, began to whistle.  'The Heaving of the Lead' was my air--no very tragic
piece.  With the first note the conversation and all movement ceased; silence accompanied me
while I continued; and when I passed that way on my return I found the lamp was lighted in
the house, but the tongues were still mute.  All night, as I now think, the wretches shivered
and were silent.  For indeed, I had no guess at the time at the nature and magnitude of the
terrors I inflicted, or with what grisly images the notes of that old song had peopled the
dark house.

CHAPTER V--A PAUMOTUAN FUNERAL

No, I had no guess of these men's terrors.  Yet I had received ere that a hint, if I had understood;
and the occasion was a funeral.

A little apart in the main avenue of Rotoava, in a low hut of leaves that opened on a small
enclosure, like a pigsty on a pen, an old man dwelt solitary with his aged wife.  Perhaps they
were too old to migrate with the others; perhaps they were too poor, and had no possessions
to dispute.  At least they had remained behind; and it thus befell that they were invited to
my feast.  I dare say it was quite a piece of politics in the pigsty whether to come or not
to come, and the husband long swithered between curiosity and age, till curiosity conquered,
and they came, and in the midst of that last merrymaking death tapped him on the shoulder.
For some days, when the sky was bright and the wind cool, his mat would be spread in the main
highway of the village, and he was to be seen lying there inert, a mere handful of a man, his
wife inertly seated by his head.  They seemed to have outgrown alike our needs and faculties;
they neither spoke nor listened; they suffered us to pass without a glance; the wife did not
fan, she seemed not to attend upon her husband, and the two poor antiques sat juxtaposed under
the high canopy of palms, the human tragedy reduced to its bare elements, a sight beyond pathos,
stirring a thrill of curiosity.  And yet there was one touch of the pathetic haunted me: that
so much youth and expectation should have run in these starved veins, and the man should have
squandered all his lees of life on a pleasure party.

On the morning of 17th September the sufferer died, and, time pressing, he was buried the same
day at four.  The cemetery lies to seaward behind Government House; broken coral, like so much
road- metal, forms the surface; a few wooden crosses, a few inconsiderable upright stones,
designate graves; a mortared wall, high enough to lean on, rings it about; a clustering shrub
surrounds it with pale leaves.  Here was the grave dug that morning, doubtless by uneasy diggers,
to the sound of the nigh sea and the cries of sea-birds; meanwhile the dead man waited in his
house, and the widow and another aged woman leaned on the fence before the door, no speech
upon their lips, no speculation in their eyes.

Sharp at the hour the procession was in march, the coffin wrapped in white and carried by four
bearers; mourners behind--not many, for not many remained in Rotoava, and not many in black,
for these were poor; the men in straw hats, white coats, and blue trousers or the gorgeous
parti-coloured pariu, the Tahitian kilt; the women, with a few exceptions, brightly habited.
Far in the rear came the widow, painfully carrying the dead man's mat; a creature aged beyond
humanity, to the likeness of some missing link.

The dead man had been a Mormon; but the Mormon clergyman was gone with the rest to wrangle
over boundaries in the adjacent isle, and a layman took his office.  Standing at the head of
the open grave, in a white coat and blue pariu, his Tahitian Bible in his hand and one eye
bound with a red handkerchief, he read solemnly that chapter in Job which has been read and
heard over the bones of so many of our fathers, and with a good voice offered up two prayers.
The wind and the surf bore a burthen.  By the cemetery gate a mother in crimson suckled an
infant rolled in blue.  In the midst the widow sat upon the ground and polished one of the
coffin- stretchers with a piece of coral; a little later she had turned her back to the grave
and was playing with a leaf.  Did she understand? God knows.  The officiant paused a moment,
stooped, and gathered and threw reverently on the coffin a handful of rattling coral. Dust
to dust:  but the grains of this dust were gross like cherries, and the true dust that was
to follow sat near by, still cohering (as by a miracle) in the tragic semblance of a female ape.

So far, Mormon or not, it was a Christian funeral.  The well-known passage had been read from
Job, the prayers had been rehearsed, the grave was filled, the mourners straggled homeward.
With a little coarser grain of covering earth, a little nearer outcry of the sea, a stronger
glare of sunlight on the rude enclosure, and some incongruous colours of attire, the well-remembered
form had been observed.

By rights it should have been otherwise.  The mat should have been buried with its owner; but,
the family being poor, it was thriftily reserved for a fresh service.  The widow should have
flung herself upon the grave and raised the voice of official grief, the neighbours have chimed
in, and the narrow isle rung for a space with lamentation.  But the widow was old; perhaps
she had forgotten, perhaps never understood, and she played like a child with leaves and coffin-stretchers.
In all ways my guest was buried with maimed rites.  Strange to think that his last conscious
pleasure was the Casco and my feast; strange to think that he had limped there, an old child,
looking for some new good.  And the good thing, rest, had been allotted him.

But though the widow had neglected much, there was one part she must not utterly neglect. 
She came away with the dispersing funeral; but the dead man's mat was left behind upon the
grave, and I learned that by set of sun she must return to sleep there.  This vigil is imperative.
From sundown till the rising of the morning star the Paumotuan must hold his watch above the
ashes of his kindred.  Many friends, if the dead have been a man of mark, will keep the watchers
company; they will be well supplied with coverings against the weather; I believe they bring
food, and the rite is persevered in for two weeks.  Our poor survivor, if, indeed, she properly
survived, had little to cover, and few to sit with her; on the night of the funeral a strong
squall chased her from her place of watch; for days the weather held uncertain and outrageous;
and ere seven nights were up she had desisted, and returned to sleep in her low roof.  That
she should be at the pains of returning for so short a visit to a solitary house, that this
borderer of the grave should fear a little wind and a wet blanket, filled me at the time with
musings.  I could not say she was indifferent; she was so far beyond me in experience that
the court of my criticism waived jurisdiction; but I forged excuses, telling myself she had
perhaps little to lament, perhaps suffered much, perhaps understood nothing.  And lo! in the
whole affair there was no question whether of tenderness or piety, and the sturdy return of
this old remnant was a mark either of uncommon sense or of uncommon fortitude.

