7. The piano-grinders are by far the most numerous of the handle-turning fraternity. The instrument
they carry about with them is familiar to the dwellers in most of the towns in England. It
is a miniature cabinet-piano, without the keys or finger-board, and is played by similar mechanical
means to that which gives utterance to the hand-organ; but of course it requires no bellows.
There is one thing to be said in favour of these instruments--they do not make much noise,
and consequently are no very great nuisance individually. The worst thing against them is the
fact, that they are never in tune, and therefore never worth the hearing. After grinding for
twelve or fourteen hours a day for four or five years, they become perfect abominations; and
luckless is the fate of the poor little stranger condemned to perpetual companionship with
a villainous machine, whose every tone is the cause of offence to those whose charity he must
awaken into exercise, or go without a meal. These instruments are known to be the property
of certain extensive proprietors in the city, some of whom have hundreds of them grinding daily
in every quarter of the town. Some few are let out on hire--the best at a shilling a day; the
old and worn-out ones as low as two or three pence; but the great majority of them are ground
by young Italians shipped to this country for the especial purpose by the owners of the instruments.
These descendants of the ancient Romans figure in Britain in a very different plight from that
of their renowned ancestors. They may be encountered in troops sallying forth from the filthy
purlieus of Leather Lane, at about nine or ten in the morning, each with his awkward burden
strapped to his back, and supporting his steps with a stout staff, which also serves to support
the instrument when playing. Each one has his appointed beat, and he is bound to bring home
a certain prescribed sum to entitle him to a share in the hot supper prepared for the evening
meal. We have more than once, when startled by the sound of the everlasting piano within an
hour of midnight, questioned the belated grinder, and invariably received for answer, that
he had not yet been able to collect the sum required of him. Still there can be no doubt that
some of them contrive to save money; inasmuch as we occasionally see an active fellow set up
on his own account, and furnished with an instrument immensely superior to those of his less
prosperous compatriots. So great is the number of these wandering Italian pianists, that their
condition has attracted the attention of their more wealthy countrymen, who, in conjunction
with a party of benevolent English gentlemen, have set on foot an association for the express
purpose of imparting instruction to poor Italians of all grades, of whom the vagabond musicians
form the largest section.

It is easy to recognise the rule adopted in the distribution of the instruments among the grinders:
the stoutest fellow, or he who can take the best care of it, gets the best piano; while the
shattered and rickety machine goes to the urchin of ten or twelve, who can scarcely drag it
a hundred yards without resting. It is to be supposed that the instruments are all rated according
to their quality. There is at this moment wandering about the streets of London a singular
and pitiable object, whose wretched lot must be known to hundreds of thousands, and who affords
in his own person good evidence of the strictness of the rule above alluded to, as well as
of the rigour with which the trade is carried on. We refer to a ragged, shirtless, and harmlessly
insane Italian lad, who, under the guardianship of one of the piano-mongers, is driven forth
daily into the streets, carrying a blackened and gutted, old piano-case, in which two strings
only of the original scale remain unbroken. The poor unwashed innocent transports himself as
quickly as possible to the genteelest neighbourhood he can find, and with all the enthusiasm
of a Jullien, commences his monotonous grind. Three turns of the handle, and the all but defunct
instrument ejaculates 'tink;' six more inaudible turns, and then the responding string answers
'tank.' 'Tink--tank' is the sum-total of his performance, to any defects in which he is as
insensible as a blind man is to colour. As a matter of course, he gets ill-treated, mobbed,
pushed about, and upset by the blackguard scamps about town; and were it not for the police,
who have rescued him times without number from the hands of his persecutors, he would long
ere now have been reduced to as complete a ruin as his instrument. In one respect, he is indeed
already worse off than the dilapidated piano: he is dumb as well as silly, and can only utter
one sound--a cry of alarm of singular intensity; this cry forms the climax of pleasure to the
wretches who dog his steps, and this, unmoved by his silent tears and woful looks, they goad
him to shriek forth for their express gratification. We have stumbled upon him at near eleven
at night, grinding away with all his might in a storm of wind and rain, perfectly unconscious
of either, and evidently delighted at his unusual freedom from interruption.

8. Flageolet-organists and pianists. It is a pleasure to award praise where praise is due,
and it may be accorded to this class of grinders, who are, to our minds, the elite of the profession.
We stated above that some of the piano-grinders contrive, notwithstanding their difficult position,
to save money and set up for themselves. It is inevitable that the faculty of music must be
innate with some of these wandering pianists, and it is but natural that these should succeed
the best, and be the first to improve their condition. The instrument which combines a flageolet-stop
with a piano is generally found in the possession of young fellows who, by dint of a persevering
and savage economy, have saved sufficient funds to procure it. Indeed, in common hands, it
would be of less use than the commonest instrument, because it requires frequent--more than
daily--tuning, and would therefore be of no advantage to a man with no ear. Unless the strings
were in strict unison with the pipes, the discordance would be unbearable, and as this in the
open air can hardly be the case for many hours together, they have to be rectified many times
in the course of a week. As might be reasonably supposed, these instruments are comparatively
few. When set to slow melodies, the flageolet taking the air, and the piano a well-arranged
accompaniment, the effect is really charming, and, there is little reason to doubt, is found
as profitable to the producer as it is pleasing to the hearer. They are to be met with chiefly
at the west end of the town, and on summer evenings beneath the lawyers' windows in the neighbourhood
of some of the Inns of Court.

9. The hurdy-gurdy player. We have placed this genius last, because, though essentially a most
horrid grinder, he, too, is in some sort a performer. In London, there may be said to be two
classes of them--little hopping, skipping, jumping, reeling Savoyard or Swiss urchins, who
dance and sing, and grind and play, doing, like Cæsar, four things at once, and whom you expect
every moment to see rolling on the pavement, but who continue, like so many kittens, to pitch
on their feet at last, notwithstanding all their antics--and men with sallow complexions, large
dark eyes, and silver ear-rings, who stand erect and tranquil, and confer a dignity, not to
say a grace, even upon the performance of the hurdy-gurdy. The boys for the most part do not
play any regular tune, having but few keys to their instruments, often not even a complete
octave. The better instruments of the adult performers have a scale of an octave and a half,
and sometimes two octaves, and they perform melodies and even harmonies with something like
precision, and with an effect which, to give it its due praise, supplies a very tolerable caricature
of the Scotch bagpipes. These gentry are not much in favour either with the genuine lovers
of music or the lovers of quiet, and they know the fact perfectly well. They hang about the
crowded haunts of the common people, and find their harvest in a vulgar jollification, or an
extempore 'hop' at the door of a suburban public-house on a summer night. There are a few old-women
performers on this hybrid machine, one of whom is familiar to the public through the dissemination
of her vera effigies in a contemporary print.

The above are all the grinders which observation has enabled us to identify as capable of classification.
The reader may, if he likes, suppose them to be the metropolitan representatives of the nine
Muses--and that, in fact, in some sort they are, seeing that they are the embodiments to a
certain extent of the musical tastes of a section at least of the inhabitants of London; though,
if we are asked which is Melpomene? which is Thalia? &c. &c. we must adopt the reply of the
showman to the child who asked which was the lion and which was the dog, and received for answer:
'Whichever you like, my little dear.'

With respect to all these grinders, one thing is remarkable: they are all, with the exception
of a small savour of Irishmen, foreigners. Scarcely one Englishman, not one Scot, will be found
among the whole tribe; and this fact is as welcome to us as it is singular, because it speaks
volumes in favour of the national propensity, of which we have reason to be proud, to be ever
doing something, producing something, applying labour to its legitimate purpose, and not turning
another man's handle to grind the wind. Yet there is, alas! a scattered and characteristic
tribe of vagabond English music-grinders, and to these we must turn a moment's attention ere
we finally close the list. We must call them, for we know no more appropriate name, cripple-grinders.
It is impossible to carry one's explorations very far through the various districts of London
without coming upon one or more samples of this unfortunate tribe. Commerce maims and mutilates
her victims as effectually as war, though not in equal numbers; and men and lads without arms,
or without legs, or without either, and men doubled up and distorted, and blasted blind and
hideous with gunpowder, who have yet had the misfortune to escape death, are left without limbs
or eyesight, often with shattered intellects, to fight the battle of life, at fearful odds.
Had they been reduced to a like miserable condition while engaged in killing their fellow-creatures
on the field of battle or on the deck of carnage, a grateful country would have housed them
in a palace, and abundantly supplied their every want; but they were merely employed in procuring
the necessaries of life for their fellows in the mine or the factory, and as nobody owes them
any gratitude for that, they must do what they can. And behold what they do: they descend,
being fit for nothing else, to the level of the foreign music-grinder, and, mounted on a kind
of bed-carriage, are drawn about the streets of London by their wives or children; being furnished
with a blatant hand-organ of last century's manufacture, whose ear-torturing growl draws the
attention of the public to their woful plight, they extort that charity which would else fail
to find them out. If there be something gratifying in the fact, that this is the only class
of Britons who follow such an inglorious profession, there is nothing very flattering in the
consideration, that even these are compelled to it by inexorable necessity.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Among some of the continental nations, Justice, though blind, is not supposed to be deaf;
she has, on the contrary, a musical ear, and compels the various grinders of harmony to keep
their instruments in tune, under the penalty of a heavy fine. In some of the German cities,
the police have summary jurisdiction in offences musical, and are empowered to demand a certificate,
with which every grinder is bound to be furnished, shewing the date of the last tuning of his
instrument. If he perpetrate false harmony, and his certificate be run out, he is mulcted in
the fine. Such a by-law would be a real bonus in London.

A VOICE FROM THE DIGGINGS.

The voices that have come from the diggings in California and Australia have hitherto been
so loud and so many, that they have served only to confuse. We have the image before our fancy
of a vast crowd of human beings hastening over seas and deserts towards certain geographical
points, where they meet, struggle, fix. We see them picking up lumps of gold from the surface,
or digging them out of the earth, or collecting the glittering dust by sifting and washing;
and then we hear of vast torrents of the precious metal finding their way into Europe, threatening
to swamp us all with absolute wealth, and confound and travesty the whole monetary transactions
of the world. What we don't see, is the gold itself. We should like, if it were only out of
curiosity, to feel a handful of it in our pocket: but we grope in vain. A sovereign costs twenty
shillings, as before; and twenty shillings are as hard to come at as ever. Nevertheless, we
believe in the unseen presence of that slave-genius, who lends himself, with a sickly smile,
to the service of mankind, and buys when we think he is sold! We have faith in bills of lading,
and accept without question any amount that is reported to lie dormant in the reservoir of
the Bank of England: only we wonder in private whether the importations of the precious metal
are likely to increase permanently in greater proportion than the population in this quarter
of the globe, and the spread of taste, comfort, and luxury, calling every day new arts into
existence, perfecting old ones, and distributing wealth throughout the constantly widening
circle of talent and industry.

But our present business is with the diggings and the diggers. We have often wished we could
interrogate one of those unquiet spirits in the manner of Macbeth--'What is't ye do?' How do
you manage? By what signs do you know a locality that is likely to repay your pains? What are
your instruments, your machinery? What do you conceive to be the prospects of your singular
trade? And, in fact, our curiosity is at this moment to a certain extent gratified: a Voice
has been wafted across the ocean to our private ear, and, undisturbed by the thousand other
tongues of the diggings, we can listen to an account, distinct so far as it goes, of the whole
process of gold-hunting. The voice emanates from Mr S. Rutter, of Sydney, whose experience
has lain both in the Californian and Australian mines, and we propose putting together, in
as intelligible a way as we can, the rough hints with which we have been favoured.

Mr Rutter, on the 24th of May last, left Sydney for the Ophir diggings, with a party, including
himself, of four individuals. A sleeping partner remained behind, whose duty it was to furnish
the means of conveyance for the first trip; but the four travellers entered with each other
into a more precise agreement, the chief articles of which we give, as being common in such
adventures:--

I. We solemnly agree to stand by each other in all circumstances.

II. Each man is to come provided with firearms.

III. The capital is to be contributed equally, or credit given, as may be agreed to by the
majority.

IV. The profit or loss to be equally divided.

V. In the event of death or disablement occurring to any of the party, his share of the stock
and profits is to be immediately handed over to his friends.

On this paction being signed, the party set forth, provided with L.100 worth of goods, a cart
and a team of horses, and reached Paramatta, a distance of eighteen miles, the first night,
although they were obliged to send back one of the horses, which had proved to be useless.
Here Mr Rutter slept in a bed for the last time during four months; and the next day, having
purchased another horse, and sold some of their goods to lighten the wagon, they set forth
again towards evening. The road was nothing more than a dray-track, to which the horses were
unequal; and after proceeding a few miles, they were detained at the village of Prospect for
a week, till one of the partners had returned to Sydney, and brought back a pair of bush-horses
and a new cart. As they proceeded the next day, they found the track over which they travelled
become more and more populous; till, on crossing the Macquarrie, they encamped in the midst
of thirteen teams of cattle and their thirteen companies, all bound upon the same errand as
themselves.

On the 12th of June, in the dusk of the evening, they reached the summit of a hill overlooking
their destination. The Summerhill Creek lay before them, with the camp-fires of fifty or sixty
huts; and as they descended into the midst, the inhabitants of this village of the desert were
returning from work with laughter and rude merriment. After pitching their camp, and taking
some refreshment, they proceeded anxiously to inquire the news; and that night they turned
in with no very bright anticipations, after learning that the creek was high and goods low,
the weather alternating between rain and frost, the mines overcrowded, and superfluous hands
deserting them fast. They struggled for awhile against these evil auguries; they even contrived,
with great labour, to pick up an ounce or two of gold; but at length, losing heart, the party
broke up on the 23d, and all went home but our adventurer.

His geological and mechanical knowledge enabled him to obtain a partnership with another band
of gold-hunters then at work; and after spending some days in prospecting on account of the
new concern, he found 'a chink he liked the look of,' which appeared to have been partially
worked. Licences were accordingly taken out, the commissioner being on the spot, and forty-five
feet of frontage to the creek were marked off. As soon as the river became a little lower,
they began in earnest to dig a race for turning the course of the water. Their pump was made
and fixed ready to drain; a dam was emptied; six ounces of gold were obtained as an earnest
of what they might expect; and then it began to rain, and the creek to roar, and the whole
of their machinery was swept away.

Here was a new mishap: but these things will happen in the diggings; and so our adventurers,
agreeing to pay the commissioner a monthly licence for their ground, intending to return in
the dry weather to work it, removed bag and baggage to another part of the river. Here they
dug away, but it appears with no tempting success; and they took care to return to the commissioner
in time, as they thought, to implement their monthly bargain. On tendering the money for their
licence, however, they discovered that they were just half an hour too late, and that the functionary
had disposed of their forty-five feet to another bidder. What to do now? They fell in with
a man, an old friend of Mr Rutter, just setting off on a journey of sixty-two miles to the
north, where he told them a piece of gold had been found weighing 106 lbs. This invaluable
man they instantly took into partnership, and purchasing fresh horses, they struck their camp,
and followed their new companion across the country, in search of a place called the Devil's
Hole, near the World's End. It is no wonder they lost their way. As there was no such thing
as a road, they were obliged to transport their goods on the horses' backs; and the interesting
nature of their journey may be guessed at from the fact, that they had to cross a creek with
steep banks sixteen times in the course of five miles.

They at length reached the Louisa Diggings, near those quartz-ridges where, in fact, a 106
lb. lump of gold had been found. They encamped in the dark; and getting up betimes the next
morning, looked eagerly out on this land of promise. It was a dull, dreary morning, and a heavy
continuous rain plashed upon the earth. About 200 persons were taking the air in this watery
atmosphere, their dress and movements corresponding well with the aspect of the hour. Some
were covered with an old sack, some with a blanket, some with a dripping cloak, but all glided
slowly about in the rain, with a stick in their hands, and their eyes fixed upon the ground.
These phantoms were gold-hunters; and the silent company was immediately joined by our adventurers,
who glided and poked like the rest. The ground was new, and during two days gold was obtained
in this way, from a particle the size of a pin's head to a lump of nearly an ounce. When the
surface was exhausted, digging commenced; but the soil was too tough for the common cradle,
and although rich in gold, it would not repay the trouble of washing. Upon this, the company
broke up, each pursuing his own way; and our adventurer and another agreed to go down the country
together to Maitland, prospecting on the way.

The place where the large mass of gold was found is an intersection between two quartz-ridges,
rising from a high table-land in the midst of a congeries of mountains, offshoots from the
range that extends from Wilson's Point, on the south, to Cape York, on the north. The clay
soil covers many acres below and around the ridges, and wherever it was prospected by our adventurer,
gold was found. On the 12th of September, he reached Maitland; and here he found a letter awaiting
him, which determined him to choose a new hunting-ground. Some years before, it seems, a man
he knew, who was at that time a shepherd in the Wellington District, while crossing the country
on his master's business, lost his way in the gullies, and did not find it again for two days.
While sitting down, in his dilemma, on a quartz-rock, he observed something glittering beside
him, and breaking off with his tomahawk a piece of the stone, he carried it home with him as
a curiosity. At home it lay for years, till the reported discoveries of gold induced him to
offer it for sale to a goldsmith in Sydney. The result was, that he connected himself with
a party of adventurers, and they all set forth for the place where he had rested among the
gullies. His companions proved treacherous; and when they had come sufficiently near to be
able, as they thought, to find the spot without his assistance, they turned him adrift. They
sought the golden rock for three days--but in vain; and he went back to Sydney, to invite Mr
Rutter to accompany him. Here ends our narrative for the present; and a most instructive one
it is. The search for gold, our informant tells us plainly, is a mere lottery, its results
depending almost wholly upon chance. Plenty as the metal is, it frequently costs twenty shillings
the sovereign's worth; and, in short, we are at that point of transition when the mania is
dying away, and the science has not begun. When capital and skill are brought to bear upon
the process of mining in Australia, it will become a regular, though by no means a miraculously
profitable business; and even at present, steady labouring-men may spread themselves over thousands
of miles of the auriferous creeks, if they will be satisfied with a profit of seven or eight
shillings a day.

According to his experience, the place to look for gold is in the neighbourhood of distinct
traces of volcanic action, or in small streams coming direct from hills of volcanic formation,
or rivers fed by these streams. An abundance of quartz (commonly called spar) is universally
reckoned an indication of the presence of gold; and if trap-rock is found cropping up amid
this quartz, and perforated with streaks of it, so much the better. Sometimes the solid quartz
itself is pounded, and gold extracted by the aid of quicksilver. When the gold is found in
rivers, or on their banks, prediction is vain: nothing will do but the actual trial by the
wash-pan. But where there is a bar or sand-bank, the richest deposit will always be on the
side of the bank presented to the descending stream. The metal in such digging is almost invariably
found in small spangles, that appear to have been granular particles crushed or rolled flat
by some enormous pressure. In California, these spangles were the beginning of the gold-finding.
When the streams and their banks were well searched, the crowds of adventurers tried, in desperation,
what they could do by digging deep holes in the plains; and there the metal was found in such
different forms as to indicate quite a different process of deposition. Some of these holes
were productive--although it was severe labour to dig fifteen or eighteen feet through a hard
soil merely as an experiment; and in the course of time the plains were covered with tents.
The influx of adventurers continued; and the old diggers, dissatisfied with gains that seemed
to the new prodigious, retired further and further back, and began to grope in the terraces
on the sides of volcanic hills, and among the detritus of extinct craters. Here the harvest
was rich, and as the crowning effort of the gold-passion, unassisted by machinery, they actually
in some cases cut away the sides of the hills! 'My own impression is,' concludes our informant
on this subject, 'that, both in California and Australia, the chances of individual enterprise,
and even of small companies, are decreasing rapidly; but that when the mines so wrought have
ceased to pay, capital and machinery, directed by science, will receive profitable employment
for ages to come.'

The wash-pan we have mentioned may be of tin, if not required to be used with quicksilver,
otherwise of copper or wood; but of whatever material made, it should be some 15 inches in
diameter at the top, 10 or 11 at the bottom, and 5, or 5-1/2 inches deep. The manner of using
this is learned only by practice and observation, and consists in a peculiar motion, by which
the heavier substances sink to the bottom and remain there, while the soluble and lighter parts
are washed out. The principal use of the wash-pan is in rewashing the partially washed 'stuff'
taken from the rocker, and in prospecting to ascertain by trial the value of a new place.

This rocker, or cradle, may be made of half-inch softwood, and consists of a trough 10 inches
deep, 18 inches broad, and 4 feet long, closed at the broad end, and open at the other; with
a transverse bar at the upper part, two feet from the broad end, to receive the tray. This
machine is placed on rockers, like a cradle, and deposited so near the water that, when at
work, the man who rocks with his left hand may be able to reach the water with a small tin
baler, provided with a wooden handle two feet long. A bucketful of the earth to be washed is
thrown into the tray, and the person who is to rock the cradle taking a balerful of water,
throws it uniformly on the mass in the tray, and keeps rocking and washing till the gold becomes
obvious. These are the simpler implements of gold-hunting; and provided with them, the little
company of adventurers pitch their tent and continue to dig, till they come to earth they think
will pay for washing. The next morning, they get up perhaps at daylight, for the sake of the
coolness of the hour, and pass through the sieve ten or fifteen buckets before breakfast. After
breakfast, all hands resume work till about twelve o'clock, when they dine, then rest through
the heat of the day till three o'clock, and go on again till dark. They usually divide the
work as follows: one in the hole digs, fills the bucket with earth, and, if necessary, bales
the water out of the hole; another takes the bucket and empties it into the tray of the machine;
while a third rocks, supplies the machine with water, and empties the tray of the large stones.
This, it will be seen, is no child's play: your gold-hunter is no idle wanderer, but a hard-working
man, subjected to a thousand discomforts unknown in civilised life.

The quicksilver cradle is a more complicated and expensive machine, requiring six men instead
of three to work it. It is understood, however, to save at least 20 per cent. of the metal,
and indeed to be indispensable in some places in California, where the gold is in too fine
particles to be detected by the common rocker. Quicksilver has so strong an affinity for gold,
that the minutest particle of the latter having once touched, it is deprived of the possibility
of escape; and when the process of washing has been completely gone through, the whole mass
of gold particles will be found bound together by the quicksilver into a compact lump, in size
and shape often resembling an egg. The gold is thus obtained in the form of an amalgam; but
the quicksilver is easily evaporated, if its loss be of no consequence, or separated without
loss by a more scientific process.

We have more than once used the word prospecting, which, we believe, is peculiar to this kind
of mining. The deposits of gold are so capricious, that the adventurers, in order to lose as
little time as possible in removing from place to place, detach one of their number on the
hunt for a mine--and this is called prospecting. He sets out with a few provisions, a rifle,
a pick and shovel, at all events, with a pan and large knife; and on reaching some hopeful-looking
locality, he makes experiments on the soil by washing. The considerations that determine his
calling the company to the spot are of course influenced by the circumstance of their having
a common or a quicksilver cradle. He calculates the average value of the gold he finds in several
panfuls of the soil at different depths; and he takes into account the distance it has to be
carried for washing, the means of transit there exist, and how far off is the nearest store.
The prospector, therefore, is a very important member of the concern, and in many cases the
success of the adventure depends upon his experience and sagacity.

THE HISTORY OF JANE A POOLE.

In the latter part of the fourteenth century, an incident occurred in the family of the Earl
of Suffolk, which affords a curious illustration of old manners in England. We shall follow
the account of the circumstance, given in a manuscript in the British Museum.

Sir Michel Poole, second Earl of Suffolk, had several sons and daughters. First was Mighell,
son and heir; then William, second son; and afterwards ten additional olive branches, of diverse
names and both sexes--all of whom, however, died, and went down unmarried to the cold tomb.
Some fell off like nipped blossoms in their infancy; convents and wars absorbed the rest, till
only the eldest two were left of all that numerous family to perpetuate the name of Poole,
and raise the fortunes of the race. In due course of time, Sir Mighell married Elizabeth, daughter
of the right noble knight, Thomas Duke of Norfolk; and these together had two children, Jane
and Katharine, but, alas! no son. Years passed on, and the hope of an heir was at an end; but
before that hope was quite laid aside, the tragedy of the house began.

Jane, as yet heiress and darling, a round, bright, wilful cherub, beautiful and loving, but
mighty in her passionate force, and indomitable in her infant will, beyond all power of control--the
one most cared for, and on whom was anchored such a rich argosy of hopes and first fond love--was
one day given into the safe keeping of Maud, a young serving-girl, a rough, untutored peasant-girl,
who was one of the underwomen to the bower-maidens. The king was coming to the castle that
night, and every female finger that could work was employed on the last stitches of a dainty
tapestry-bed, which was to receive His Majesty as became his lordly dignity. Even the mother's
care must give way to the housewife's duty; even love must yield to loyalty.

Left alone in an upper apartment with her young charge, Maud became weary of confinement, and
resolved at all hazards to descend to the great hall, and have her share of the general amusement.
Down, accordingly, she went. Jane, of course, accompanied her, and, contrary to orders, was
allowed to romp about at pleasure. The day was cold, and the fire burned brightly in the open
hearth. Nearer and nearer the little one crept to the blazing logs, watching the sparks fly
up in a golden shower when the crackling masses fell to the ground, or when some rough soldier
struck them with his mailed hand. No one looked to her while she played by the open hearth,
and tried to seize the vivid sparks; once only, a trooper caught her roughly back; but again
she stole towards the great blazing logs, and this time she was less fortunate. Suddenly, a
cry was heard. Jane's clothes were in flames. Maud extinguished them as she best could. She
crushed the burning with her hands in such haste as she might make; but, alas! to what a wreck
had the fire reduced the child! Her long fair hair was withered to its roots; her pretty eyes
were closed, and the curling lashes scorched to the skin; her pure neck was blackened and blistered;
and, a mass of pain and sore, she lay like a dead thing, but for the wailing moans which shewed
her sad title yet to a ruined existence. Alas for her that she did not die! Wo, that life was
so strong in her now, when, blemished and disfigured for ever, she might not hold its honours
or taste its joys!--now, when she must endure a worse thing than death for the sake of her
family name! 'Therefore,' says the chronicle, 'she was in a manner loathed of her parents,
and kept forth secretly from the common knowledge of the people.'

'The house of Poole must have no charred mummy for its heiress,' said old Dame Katharine; and
Sir Mighell and his lady bowed their heads and acquiesced.

It was agreed, then, that she should be sent to a house of 'close nuns,' to be made a woman
of religion, and so kept out of the sight of all men's eyes. With this view, she was brought
up; taught nothing else; suffered to hope for nothing else; suffered to speak of nothing else.
But they could not bind her thoughts; and by a strange perversity of will, these went always
to the open fields and the unfettered limb, to the vague picturing of freedom, and the dreamy
forecast of love. Yet she kept her peace; not daring to tell her mind to any, and nourishing
all the more strongly, because in silence, the characteristics which destroyed the charm of
a conventual life. When she came to the years of discretion, she was to be professed; but,
in accordance with an old custom, before her profession she required to enter the world for
a season, that her 'vocation' might be judged of, whether it were true or not, or simply the
effect of education on the one hand, and of ignorance on the other; and thus, when she was
fifteen years of age, she was dismissed to her father's house for the space of six months'
nominal trial, after which time she must return to the convent for ever.

