The weather at first beguiled us with symptoms of a change for the cooler, and lent to our
sails some pleasant breezes as we passed out of the Gulf of Smyrna. As we sped onward, things
became even better, and especially delighted us with their aspect off Rhodes. It is a singular
fact, well known to those who know the locality, that the day scarcely occurs in the year when
this island is afflicted with a calm. For some reason it so happens that, pass when you will,
you are pretty sure to find a stiff breeze blowing. One of the points of the island, which
thrusts out into the sea a long and low promontory, shows that the natives here know how to
turn this physical provision to good effect. This point is in the most curious way studded
with windmills, and from this its garniture has received its name in our geography. These poor
machines rarely know an hour's quiet, but continually throw about their long arms in what,
from a little distance, seems to be a mere confusion of material. Past this exquisitely beautiful
island, of whose strand the recollection is fraught with associations of unfeverish existence,
we sped rapidly before the breeze, which almost made us regret the land we were leaving. Truly
should we have regretted it, had we but known the breezeless condition on which we were about
to enter! For some four-and-twenty hours before we arrived at our port, the weather changed
eminently for the worse. The feathery vanes stirred not, and the canvass flapped against the
mast, as the old girl rolled lumpingly in the swell. She was a dear old ship as ever floated,
but like all other things sublunary, animate, or inanimate, was not without her faults. Of
these the worst, nay, the only one to speak of, was the habit of rolling about most viciously
whenever she had a chance. The sun poured upon us such a flood of heat, that awnings became
a joke. Things were so thoroughly heated during the day, that the night scarcely afforded sufficient
hours to cool them down, for a fresh start next morning. We began almost to question whether
we had not changed bad for worse; and very soon made up our minds that without any mistake
we had. We arrived at this conclusion, as the port of our destination hove in sight. It was
towards evening that we crept in to our anchorage, through an atmosphere scarcely sufficiently
alive to give us motion, and so almost glowing that it seemed to burn us as we passed. The
place was wrapped in breathless stillness: no boats came forth to try a market with us, or
to gratify their curiosity; and no sounds issued from the shore, which might have been deemed
almost unhaunted of men.

When daylight revealed the features of the place, we perceived the pretensions of Adalia in
the way of the picturesque to be of a high order. Neither was there wanting matter of admiration
even in the night, though we were suffering too much discomfort to be easily pleased by mere
pictures. The shore, in its way, afforded an unusual spectacle. The town stands on high ground,
and on both sides the line of coast is formed by lofty cliffs, stretching far away into the
distance. What of the beauties of these depended on the light of day for development, were
reserved for our edification on the morrow. But the good people had ornamented their country
just then in a fashion more appropriate to embellish the night than the day. Enormous fires
were blazing on the cliffs, which skirted the bay up which we were advancing,--if we may apply
so familiar a word to the conflagrations that met our sight. The most active spirit of incendiarism
had been afloat, for entire woods were seen in a state of burning. We never discovered whether
this destruction was by accident, or of set purpose: if it were done by way of obtaining charcoal,
the price of that article one would think must have fallen in the market. But as these fires
blazed away in the clear dry air of the night, they lit up the bay, and almost threw upon the
waters the dark shadow of our masts and yards. At first, when at some distance, we had been
disposed to account for the lurid appearance of the heavens, by supposing that distance and
refraction had effected a cheat upon our senses. When we came nearer, the only thing we could
suppose was, that the whole country, was in the course of destruction. It is hard to say whether
the distance at which we anchored from the shore was not too great to allow of the production
on us of any sensible effect from these fires: that we had any misgiving on the subject may
serve to show that they were enormous. I know that at the time we made up our minds, that to
their agency was to be attributed some portion at least of the heat that oppressed us. The
wind came off in gusts of overpowering heat; not with that tepid influence that grumblers sometimes
denounce as a hot wind, but with the full sense of having come from a baker's oven. At least
we had a grand sight for our pains, and therefrom reaped some consolation as we clustered panting
on the deck.

I remember to have seen something in this way before, though on a smaller scale, and that was
in the island of Euboea. Once in my life, I had a very near view of the recent scene of such
a conflagration in one of the smaller Greek islands. It was in taking, according to our custom,
a ramble right across the land, that we came on no less a collection of embers than the debris
of an entire forest, which lay smouldering at our feet. I know that, having commenced from
curiosity the work of picking our way through the ashes, we found the undertaking more arduous
than we quite fancied, and that our trowsers and shoes would afterwards have fetched but little
in Monmouth-street. The Greeks, it is understood, light up their bonfires, partly by way of
amusing themselves, and partly by way of hinting displeasure at things in general. Of course,
it is quite obvious, that any party who wish to prove a minister's rule to be calamitous, assists
their argument by increasing the sum of calamity.

But night with its miseries at length was passed. During its course, the thermometer did not
get below 90°. What it reached in the daytime it boots not to record--and signifies less, because
when the sun is above us, we bargain for a hot day in summer. But oh! those nights, when by
every precedent we should have had cooling dews, and refreshing air!

However, the sun rose, and the people on shore rose too. There was no tumultuous rushing forth
in boats to have a look at the new comers, as there is so apt to be on the arrival of a man-of-war.
A quiet little dingy would steal out, manned by three or four mongrel-looking Greeks, and row
round us at a respectful distance. The fact is, that the people had got scent of the reason
of our coming: and as a reclamation of right is by them supposed to be incompatible with any
thing but an angry mood, they were afraid to approach us. The town itself we perceived to be
a most ill-conditioned looking place. Harbour there is none--at least none available in a breeze
from seaward. A heavy sea sets right in, and must strand any thing found anchored here. We
were afterwards told, that in the bad weather of the winter before our coming, the sea had
washed some vessels right up into the town. This want of a harbour is the most serious drawback
to the commerce of Adalia. It is, in every respect except this, adapted to serve as the general
emporium of the interior. Even at present, notwithstanding its disadvantages, a good deal of
business is done here: but ships can never lie before the town in peace, nor commence loading
and unloading, with the confidence that they shall be able to get through their work without
having first to slip cable and be off. But the town must be in other hands before so arduous
a work is likely to be undertaken.

A most unserviceable rumble of a fort mounted guard over the town, in a position little likely
to be of use in repelling an attack by sea. Perhaps it might have been available as a maintainer
of good order in the town, should the spirit of insubordination haply spring up therein: but
we could hardly have credited the walls as possessed of sufficient stability to stand the shock
of a report. We saw the artillery-men, busy as bees, at their guns--evidently standing by to
return the salute which we were expected to give. But this would have been far too civil treatment
for them, while matter of dispute between us remained. We maintained a dignified silence.

It was not long before Mr ---- found his way off to us, and put us up to the actual state of
affairs. It seemed that little Pedlington was in an uproar. The whole of the Adalian public
were in a state of lively commotion. Of course, as they had bullied loudly, they were abject
in concession. Those more immediately concerned in the outrage on the soap-boiler, would have
infallibly absconded, had not the strong arm of the law laid an embargo upon them, and laid
them by as scapegoats in the first instance. The prevailing opinion about us was, that we should
certainly blow the town about their ears, but that still all must be essayed to conciliate
us. The Caimacan himself, the great man who had given rise to the remonstrance on our part,
had taken himself off, and left his deputy in command. This was professedly to look after some
troops that he was recruiting in the neighbourhood, but we gave him the credit of practising
a dodge to get out of the way of an awkward business. A striking peculiarity of the business
was, that no doubt seemed any longer to be maintained as to the issue of the negotiation. The
question of right and wrong was no longer considered as being open; but the verdict was already
presumed to be given against those whom we challenged as offenders.

It was thought advisable to pay some attention to appearances on the occasion of our interview
with the governor. No suit prospers with them, in a general way, unless backed by good personal
appearance. For this reason we mustered a strong party of officers, in imposing costume; and
by way of evincing our determination, proceeded with as little delay as possible to the divan.
The usual motley group of starers gathered round us at the landing, and escorted us up the
rugged street to the palais de justice. They all seemed to be affected with the spirit of fear,
except our partisans, who were in a state of exultation from the like cause. Two individuals
in particular were amusingly and palpably possessed with the spirit of triumph, and they were
the two attendants of the vice-consul. These men were worthy of notice on other accounts, but
singularly remarkable in respect of the effectual manner in which they seemed to have divested
themselves of national prejudices. They were enthusiastic fellows, who had not merely let out
their services to the representative of England, but seemed fairly to have made over to him
the allegiance of heart and head; retaining no sympathy with their own countrymen. Thus did
they seem to rejoice eminently in our coming, and the consequent humbling of the local authorities.
They were two strapping fellows--as janissaries, to be any thing worth, should always be--and
marshalled us the way in grand style.

The unhappy rabble seemed to be suffering the pangs of most cruel privation when the cortège
arrived at the residence of justice, and they found themselves left in the lurch at the threshold.
In such mood you see a London mob flattening their noses against the panes of a chemist's window,
or hanging outside of a replete magistrate's office. One comfort is, that the economy of a
Turkish menage perfectly admits of the establishment of a line of scouts, even from the very
presence-chamber: so that earliest intelligence may be conveyed to the gentlemen without. Mr
---- gave us by the way a few hints as to etiquette, and engaged to prompt us as occasion might
demand. I have said already that he was perfectly up to conversation in the native language
and might have well played the part of interpreter. One might might have supposed that this
would have been taken by the people rather as a compliment; and that it would have been considered
creditable to a foreign agent to have acquired a knowledge of the vernacular of the people
with whom he had constantly to treat. But the contrary is the fact. To speak for one's self
is far too simple a mode of conducting business: and he who would preserve his dignity in any
consideration, must retain the services of a dragoman. To conduct an important interview without
the intervention of this functionary would convey to the Turks an idea of slovenly negligence.
A good thing is it when the agent, commercial or diplomatic, possesses sufficient knowledge
of the language to enable him to check the version of the interpreter, who otherwise is apt
to take liberties with his text. However, we were in this case quite safe: first, in the assurance
of Mr ---- that he would risk his life on his dragoman's veracity; and next, because it was
clear that no word could pass which was not likely to be reinterpreted to us.

We marched into the room, and made our salaams-some of us inconsiderable ones very truculently,
for we were very irate; and on all such occasions a man's indignation rises in exact proportion
to the degree in which he has nothing to say to the matter. The deputy Caimacan was sitting
on a divan at the top of the room, and rose politely as we entered. There were too many of
us to find room in the divan, so we were scattered about as best we could light on places.
The main difficulty was to get a place that looked clean enough to sit upon; for a dirtier
palace I never saw, nor a more, beggarly. One cannot say whether the head governor had taken
all his traps with him when he went a-soldiering; but if what we saw really was his establishment,
it is likely enough that he had gone away to avoid exposing his poverty.

"Hosh Gueldin," said the Turk; "you are welcome."

And now was to be seen a fine contrast between Oriental apathy and British energy. The Turk
sank back on his seat, as if disengaged from all care, and not quite up to the trouble of entertaining
his morning visitors. The English Captain sat bolt upright, "at attention," and opened the
business of the séance at once.

"Tell the Governor--"

"Stop a moment," said Mr ----, "that's not the way to begin."

"What is the way then?"

"First, you must smoke a pipe--there's one coming this way. You would shock all their notions
of propriety by entering abruptly on business. We must have first a little talk about things
in general."

Just then the Governor roused up, and addressed to the Captain, through the dragoman, some
observation on the weather or the crops. Then came a servant with a chibouque and coffee: and
the head negotiators were soon co-operatively engaged.

And no bad way of beginning business either; especially in cases where there may be a little
awkward rust to rub off. The only objection to the amusement in this case was, that it was
not general--pipes being afforded only to the heads of departments. This was a style of treatment
so different from all our experience, that it left me more fully persuaded than ever that the
Caimacan had walked off with his goods and chattels, not forgetting his pipes.

This fumatory process proceeded for some time, almost in silence. It afforded the several parties
opportunity to settle the speeches they intended to make, and certainly must have been useful
in the way of allaying the angry passions of their several minds. We, who had none of the business
on our consciences, and had come merely to make up the show, employed this interval in taking
cognizance of the localities. The household appointments were sadly inferior to those we had
been accustomed to see; and especially must this condemnation fall on the servants, who were
a most dirty, ill-conditioned set. They stood clustered about the doorway in groups, looking
furtively at us, and whispering counsel.

"Halloo!" said Mr ----, "they have determined to be prepared for contingencies. There are the
culprits, I see, in waiting for the bastinado, if such should be your demand."

And there, sure enough, they had the poor fellows just outside, waiting to be scourged for
the propitiating of our wrath. Evidently they were little aware that the affair had changed
altogether its complexion; and that the culpability had in our eyes been transferred from the
original rioters to the protectors of the riot.

