"I'm no better," Beatrice said. "If my aunt is ready I should like to go home. My father will
stay and see that you get your bridge all right."

Beatrice had gone at length with Lady Rashborough, the rest of the guests had finished their
bridge, and the party was breaking up. Mark Ventmore was sitting, smoking cigarettes in his
bedroom, waiting for the chance to see Sir Charles. It was getting very late now, and all the
guests had long since been in their rooms. With his door open Mark could see into the corridor.

Then he gave a little whistle of astonishment as the door of Sir Charles's sitting-room opened
and the grey lady, the Slave of the Bond of Silence, came out. She was dressed just as Mark
had seen her before; as she walked along, her face was calm and placid. She came at length
to the end of the corridor and disappeared quietly and deliberately down the stairs. With a
feeling of curiosity, Mark crossed over and tried the handle of Sir Charles's door. To his
great surprise it was locked.

For a little time Mark pondered over the problem. As he did so, his head fell back and he slept.
It was the sound sleep of the clean mind in the healthy body, so that when the sleeper came
to himself again it was broad daylight; the hotel was full of life and bustle. With a sense
of having done a fearful thing, Mark looked at his watch. It was ten minutes past eleven!

"This comes of having no rest the night before," he muttered. "And to think that the fate of
my little girl should be hanging in the balance! If Sir Charles has gone!"

But Sir Charles had not gone, as one of the waiters was in a position to assure Mark. He had
not retired to bed until past three, and at that time was in a state of hilarity that promised
a pretty fair headache in the morning.

"Well, there is time yet," Mark thought, grimly. "And Sir Charles must be moving by this time,
as the wedding is to take place at twelve."

But the minutes crept on, and it was pretty near to that hour when Sir Charles's man came down
the corridor with an anxious expression on his face. He had been hammering at the bedroom door
without effect.

A sudden idea thrilled Mark, an idea that he was ashamed of almost before it had come into
his mind. He stood by idly, listening. He heard a clock somewhere strike the hour of midday.
He stepped up to the little knot of waiters.

"Why don't you do something?" he demanded. "What is the use of standing stupidly about here?
Call the manager or whoever is in attendance. Break down the door."

With all his force Mark thrust himself against the stout oak. The hinges yielded at last.

CHAPTER IV

Beatrice woke to the knowledge of her own utter misery. Contrary to her anticipation, she had
slept very soundly all night, much as condemned criminals are supposed to do on the eve of
execution. She felt well and vigorous in herself, a brilliant sunshine was pouring into her
room, and all around her lay evidences of her coming slavery. Here were the bridal veil and
the long train, there were the jewels laid out on the dressing table. A maid was moving quietly
about the room.

"Good morning, miss," she said. "A lovely morning. And if there's any truth in the saying that
'happy's the bride that the sun shines on,' why----"

The maid stopped and smiled before she caught sight of Beatrice's pale, set face.

"I suppose you think I am to be envied?" Beatrice asked. "Now don't you?"

The maid lifted her hands to express her dumb admiration. "Who would not be happy to be dressed
in those lovely clothes, to be decked in those jewels and to marry a man who will give you
everything that the heart could desire?" Beatrice smiled wearily.

"You are quite wrong, Adeline," she said. "If I could change places with you at this moment
I would gladly do so. You have a sweetheart, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes, miss. He's in a shop. Some day he hopes to have a shop of his own, and then----"

"And then you will be married. You love him very dearly, I suppose. And I----"

Beatrice stopped, conscious of the fact that she was saying too much. She ate sparingly enough
of her breakfast; she went down to the drawing-room and wrote a few letters. It was not quite
ten yet and she had plenty of time. Lady Rashborough was not an early riser, though Rashborough
himself had breakfasted and gone out long before. Beatrice was moodily contemplating her presents
in the library when Mr. Stephen Richford was announced. He came in with an easy smile, though
Beatrice could see that his hands were shaking and there was just a suggestion of fear in his
eyes. With all his faults, the man did not drink, and Beatrice wondered. She had once seen
a forger arrested on a liner, and his expression, as soon as he recognized his position, was
just the same as Beatrice now saw in the eyes of the man she was going to marry.

"What is the matter?" she asked listlessly. "You look as if you had had some great shock, like
a man who has escaped from prison. Your face is ghastly."

Richford made no reply for a moment. He contemplated his sullen, livid features in a large
Venetian mirror opposite. He was not a pretty object at any time, but he was absolutely repulsive
just at that moment.

"Bit of an upset," he stammered. "Saw a--a nasty street accident. Poor chap run over."

The man was lying to her; absolutely he was forced to the invention to save himself from a
confession of quite another kind. He was not in the least likely to feel for anybody else,
in fact he had no feeling of human kindness, as Beatrice had once seen for herself. There had
been a fatal accident at a polo match under their very feet, and Richford had puffed at his
cigarette and expressed the sentiment that if fools did that kind of thing they must be prepared
to put up with the consequences.

"You are not telling the truth!" Beatrice said coldly. "As if anything of that kind would affect
you. You are concealing something from me. Is it--is there anything the matter with my father?"

Richford started violently. With all his self-control he could not hold himself in now. His
white face took on a curious leaden hue, his voice was hoarse as he spoke.

"Of course I have no good points in your eyes," he said with a thick sneer. "And once a woman
gets an idea into her head there is no rooting it out again. Your father is all right; nothing
ever happens to men of that class. I saw him to his room last night, and very well he had done
for himself. Won over two hundred at bridge, too. Sir Charles can take care of himself."

Beatrice's face flamed and then turned pale again. She had caught herself hoping that something
had happened to her father, something sufficiently serious to postpone to-day's ceremony. It
was a dreadfully unworthy thought and Beatrice was covered with shame. And yet she knew that
she would have been far happier in the knowledge of a disaster like that.

"Why did you want to see me?" she asked. "I have not too much time to spare."

"Of course not. But you can cheer yourself with the reflection that we shall have so much time
together later on when the happy knot is tied. Has it occurred to you that I have given you
nothing as yet? I brought this for you."

Richford's hands, still trembling, produced a bulky package from his pocket. As he lifted the
shabby lid a stream of living fire flashed out. There were diamonds of all kinds in old settings,
the finest diamonds that Beatrice had ever seen. Ill at ease and sick at heart as she was,
she could not repress a cry.

"Ah, I thought I could touch you," Richford grinned. "A female saint could not resist diamonds.
Forty thousand pounds I gave for them. They are the famous Rockmartin gems. The family had
to part with them, so the opportunity was too good to be lost. Well?"

"They are certainly exquisitely lovely," Beatrice stammered. "I thank you very much."

"If not very warmly, eh? So that is all you have to say? Ain't they worth one single kiss?"

Beatrice drew back. For the life of her she could not kiss this man. Never had his lips touched
hers yet. They should never do so if Beatrice had her own way.

"I think not," she said in her cold constrained way. "It is very princely of you, and yet it
does not touch me in the least. You made the bargain with your eyes open; I told you at the
time that I could never care for you; that I sold myself to save my father's good name. I know
the situation is not a new one; I know that such marriages, strange to say, have before now
turned out to be something like success. But not ours. All the heart I ever had to bestow has
long since been given to another. I will do my best to make your life comfortable, I will do
my best to learn all that a wife is asked to become. But no more."

Richford turned away with a savage curse upon his lips. The cold contempt struck him and pierced
the hide of his indifference as nothing else could. But he was going to have his revenge. The
time was near at hand when Beatrice would either have to bend or break, Richford did not care
which. It was the only consolation that he had.

"Very well," he said. "We understand one another. We shall see. Au revoir!"

He took up his hat and his stick, and strode off without a further word. Beatrice put the diamonds
away from her as if they had been so many deadly snakes. She felt that she would loathe the
sight of diamonds for the rest of her life.

The time was drawing on now, it only wanted another hour, and the thing would be done. Lady
Rashborough came in and admired the diamonds; in her opinion, Beatrice was the luckiest girl
in London. Her ladyship was a pretty little blue-eyed thing adored by her husband, but she
had no particle of heart. Why a girl should dislike a man who would give her diamonds like
these she could not possibly imagine.

"You will be wiser as you grow older, my dear," she said sapiently. "Why didn't I meet Richford
before?"

Beatrice echoed the sentiment with all her heart. She resigned herself dully to the maid; she
took not the slightest interest in the proceedings; whether she looked ill or well mattered
nothing. But though her own natural beauty was not to be dimmed, and though she had the aid
of all that art could contrive, nothing could disguise the pallor of her face.

"A little rouge, miss," Adeline implored. "Just a touch on your cheeks. Your face is like snow,
and your lips like ashes. I could do it so cleverly that----"

"That people would never know," Beatrice said. "I have no doubt about it, Adeline. But all
the same I am not going to have any paint on my face."

A big clock outside was striking the three quarters after eleven; already the carriage was
at the door. As yet there was no sign of Sir Charles. But perhaps he would join the party at
the church, seeing that the head of the family and not himself was going to give the bride
away. Lord Rashborough, a little awkward in his new frock coat, was fuming about the library.
He was an open-air man and hated the society into which his wife constantly dragged him.

"Don't be too late," he said. "Always like to be punctual. Of course that father of yours has
not turned up, though he promised to drive to the church, with us."

"Father was never known to be in time in his life," Beatrice said calmly. Her dull depression
had gone, she was feeling quite cool and tranquil. If anybody had asked her, she would have
said that the bitterness of death had passed. "It is not necessary to wait for him."

"He'll understand," Lord Rashborough joined in. "We can leave a message, and he can follow
to the church in a hansom. Let us be moving, Beatrice, if you are quite ready."

