PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

October 10, 1892.

AT A HYPNOTIC SÉANCE.

    SCENE--A Public Hall in a provincial town. The Hypnotist--a
    tall, graceful, and handsome young man, in well-fitting
    evening clothes--has already succeeded in putting most of
    his subjects to sleep, and is going round and inspecting them
    critically, as they droop limply on a semicircle of chairs,
    in a variety of unpicturesque attitudes. The only Lady on
    the platform is evidently as yet in full possession of her
    senses.

First Female Spectator (to Second). MARIA MANGLES do take a time sending off, don't she?

Second F.S. (also a friend of Miss MANGLES). Yes, that she do--it gives her such a silly look,
sitting there, the on'y one with her senses about her!

First F.S. It's all affectation--she could shut her eyes fast enough if she liked!

Second F.S. The 'Ipnotiser's coming round to her now--she'll have to go off now. (With a not
unpleasurable anticipation.) I expect he'll make her do all manner o' ridic'lous things!

First F.S. Well, it will be a lesson, to her against making' herself so conspicuous another
time. I shan't pity her.

The Hyp. (after a brief colloquy with Miss MANGLES). I see I am not likely to succeed with
this Lady; so, with many thanks to her on behalf of myself and the audience for coming forward,
I will detain her no longer.

    [Applause, amidst which Miss M. descends to her seat in the
    body of the hall, with a smile of conscious triumph.

First F.S. (disappointed). I don't see what she's done to clap their hands about, myself!

Second F.S. Nor I neither--taking up his time all for nothing--depend upon it she wouldn't
have gone up if he hadn't been so nice-looking!

First F.S. I wouldn't like to think that of her myself; but, anyhow, she didn't get much by
it, did she? He soon sent her packing!

Male Spectator (to a Woman in front of him). Evening, Mrs. MIDGELLY--I see they've got your
good man up on the platform.

Mrs. M. He will go, Mr. BUDKIN! He's gone up every night the 'Ipnotiser's been here, and says
he feels it's going to do him good. So this evening I said I'd come in too, and judge for myself.
What good he expects to get, laying there like a damp dishclout, I don't know!

    [Meanwhile the Hypnotist has borrowed a silver-handled
    umbrella from the audience, and thrust it before the faces of
    one or two loutish-looking youths, who immediately begin to
    squint horribly and follow the silver-top with their noses,
    till they knock their heads together.

Mr. Budkin (to Mrs. MIDGELLY). He's going to give your husband a turn of it now.

    [The umbrella-handle is applied to Mr. M., a feeble-looking
    little man with a sandy top-knot; he grovels after the
    silver-top when it is depressed, and makes futile attempts to
    clamber up the umbrella after it when it is held aloft.

Mrs. M. (severely). I haven't patience to look at him. A Kitten 'ud have had more sense!

The Hyp. (calling up one of the heavy youths). Can you whistle, Sir? Yes? Then whistle something.
(The Youth whistles a popular air in a lugubrious tone.) Now you can't whistle--try. (The Youth
tries--and produces nothing but a close imitation of an air-cushion that is being unscrewed.)
Now, if I were not to wake him up, this young gentleman's friends would never enjoy the benefit
of his whistle again!

Voice from a Back Row. Don't wake him, Guv'nor, we can bear it!

Hyp. (after restoring the lost talent, and calling up another Youth, somewhat smartly attired).
Now, Sir, what do you drink?

The Youth (with a sleepy candour). Beer when I can get 'old of it.

A Friend of his in Audience. JIM's 'aving a lark with him--he said as 'ow he meant to kid him
like--he ain't 'ipnotised, bless yer!

Hyp. But you like water, too, don't you? (JIM admits this--in moderation.) Try this. (He gives
him a tumbler of water.) Is that good water?

Jim (smacking his lips). That's good water enough, Sir.

Hyp. It's bad water--taste it again.

    [JIM tastes, and ejects it with every symptom of extreme
    disapproval.

Jim's Friend. Try him with a drop o' Scotch in it--'e'll get it down!

Hyp. (to JIM). There is no water in that glass--it's full of sovereigns, don't you see? (JIM
agrees that this is so, and testifies to his conviction by promptly emptying the contents of
the glass into his trousers' pocket) What have you got in your pocket?

Jim (chuckling with satisfaction). Quids--golden sovereigns!

Hyp. Wake up! Now what do you find in your pocket--any sovereigns?

Jim (surprised). Sovereigns? No, Sir! (After putting his hand in his pocket, bringing it out
dripping, and dolefully regarding the stream of water issuing from his leg.) More like water, Sir.

    [He makes dismal efforts to dry himself, amidst roars of
    laughter.

His Friend. Old JIM didn't come best out o' that!

Hyp. (to JIM). You don't feel comfortable? (Emphatic assent from JIM.) Yes, you do, you feel
no discomfort whatever.

    [JIM resumes his seat with a satisfied expression.

An Open-minded Spect. Mind yer, if this yere 'Ipnotism can prevent water from being wet, there
must be something in it!

Hyp. I will now give you an illustration of the manner in which, by hypnotic influence, a subject
can be affected with an entirely imaginary pain. Take this gentleman. (Indicating the unfortunate
Mr. MIDGELLY, who is slumbering peacefully.) Now, what pain shall we give him?

A Voice. Stomach-ache!

    [This suggestion, however, is so coyly advanced that it
    fortunately escapes notice.

Hyp. Tooth-ache? Very good--we will give him tooth-ache.

    [The Audience receive this with enthusiasm, which increases
    to rapturous delight when Mr. MIDGELLY's cheek begins to
    twitch violently, and he nurses his jaw in acute agony; the
    tooth-ache is then transferred to another victim, who writhes
    in an even more entertaining manner, until the unhappy couple
    are finally relieved from torment.

A Spect. Well, it's better nor any play, this is--but he ought to ha' passed the toothache
round the lot of 'em, just for the fun o' the thing!

Mrs. Midgelly. I should ha' thought there was toothache enough without coming here to get more
of it, but so long as MIDGELLY's enjoyin' himself, I shan't interfere!

    [The Hypnot. has impressed his subjects with the idea that
    there is an Angel at the other end of the hall, and they are
    variously affected by the celestial apparition, some gazing
    with a rapt grin, while others invoke her stiffly, or hail her
    like a cab. Mr. MIDGELLY alone exhibits no interest.

Mr. Budkin (to Mrs. M.). Your 'usband don't seem to be putting himself out, Angel or no Angel.

Mrs. M. (complacently). He knows too well what's due to me, Mr. BUDKIN. I'm Angel enough for him!

Hyp. I shall now persuade this Gentleman that there is a beautiful young lady in green at the
door of this hall. (To Mr. M.) Do you see her, Sir?

Mr. M. (rising with alacrity). I do. Lovely creature!

    [He suddenly snatches up a decanter of water, and invites
    his invisible charmer, in passionate pantomime, to come up and
    share it with him--to the infinite delight of the Audience,
    and disgust of his Wife.

AFTER THE PERFORMANCE.

Mr. Midgelly (as he rejoins his Wife). I felt the influence more strongly to-night than what
I have yet; and the Professor says, if I only keep on coming up every night while he's here,
I shall soon be completely susceptible to--Why, whatever's the matter, my dear?

Mrs. M. Matter! You're quite susceptible enough as it is; and, now I know how you can go on,
you don't catch me letting you get 'ipnotised again. You and your young lady in green indeed!

Mr. M. (utterly mystified). Me and my--I don't know what you're alluding to. It's the first
I've heard of it!

Mrs. M. (grimly). Well, it won't be the last by a long way. Oh, the insight I've had into your
character this evening, MIDGELLY!

    [Mr. M. is taken home, to realise that Hypnotism is not
    altogether without its dangers.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BY-AND-BY LAWS FOR TRAFALGAR SQUARE.

(WHEN MEETINGS ARE HELD IN "TIMES OF POLITICAL OR SOCIAL CRISES.")

1. Cabs, omnibuses, carriages, and pedestrians will be expected to keep clear of the space
occupied by the Demonstrators.

2. To prevent destruction of glass and removal of property from shop windows, tradesmen will
be expected to put up their shutters several hours before the holding of the meeting.

3. No particular notice will be paid to the transference of property from one leader of labour
to another. If done by stealth, it will be accepted as a proof of secret Socialism.

4. No objection will be raised to combats amongst the Demonstrators, with the restriction that
no Government property is injured.

5. As the maintaining of the road is a matter of contract, Demonstrators wishing to emphasise
their opinions, must bring their own stones.

6. As a good deal of property is expected to change hands during the various proceedings, an
application with a description of lost goods, and photograph of supposed thief, can be addressed
to the Chief Inspector of Police, Scotland Yard.

7. These regulations (which are tentative) will be in force until after the next General Election,
when a fresh series will be published, to be followed by others as occasion may require.

       *       *       *       *       *

A POOR ROAD TO LEARNING.

    SCENE--Interior of a School Board Office. Official discovered
    hard at work, doing single-handed in London what is done by
    nearly a thousand officials combined in "Bonnie Scotland."
    Enter Female Applicant, with infant.

Applicant. Please, Sir, here's my boy. Can you take him?

Official. Certainly. Has he had any education?

App. Well, as he's rising five, not much.

Off. But does he know anything? For instance, has he learned any English history?

App. Not that I know of.

Off. Has he dipped into geography?

App. Well, I don't think he has.

Off. Can he cipher at all?

App. Not very well.

Off. Does he know what two and two make?

App. Well, he has never said he does.

Off. Can he write?

App. Well, no, he doesn't write.

Off. But I suppose he can read? Come, he at least can read?

App. Well, no, Sir, I am afraid he's not much of a scholar. I don't think he can read.

Off. Then he is absolutely ignorant--miserably ignorant.

App. Very likely, Sir,--you know best.

Off. Well, now, my good woman, I will tell you what we will do with him. We will teach him
to read, write, and cipher, and give him an excellent education.

App. And you will take care of him, Sir?

Off. Of course we will take care of him; and as for his education, we will--

App. Oh, Sir, so long as you looks after him, never you mind about his education!

    [Exit infantless.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MAUD.

A PENITENT ROUNDEL.

  I called you MAUDE. I only meant to tease,
    But somehow, ere I ended, came to laud
  Your charms in my poor verses. So in these
          I called you MAUDE.

  "My name is MAUD."
      And I am overawed,
    Forgive the indiscretion if you please.
  The spirit Truth, they tell me, is abroad,
    And since she sojourns still across the seas,
  I swear I knew the final e a fraud--
    So that you suffered from no lack of e's
          I called you MAUDE!

       *       *       *       *       *

KNILL NISI BOIMUM.

The good common sense of the Common Councilman and Liverymen of the City,--Liverymen not to
be led astray by any false lights,--coupled with their truly English love of fairplay, prevailed,
and the City Fathers on Goose Day were prevented from following in the goose-steps of that
Uncommon Councilman who, bearing the honoured names of BEAUFOY (a fine old Norman-Baron title!)
and of MOORE (shade of Sir THOMAS!), made so extraordinary a display of bigotry and ignorance
as, it is to be hoped, is rare, and becoming rarer every day, among our worthy JOHN GILPINS
of credit and renown East of the Griffin.

But in spite of this nonsensical hot-gospelling rant, Alderman and Sheriff STUART KNILL was
elected Lord Mayor, while BEAUFOY MOORE was, so to speak, no MOORE, and, in fact, very much
against his will and wish, was reduced to NIL. WILLY-KNILLY he had to cave in. Mr. Punch congratulates
the Lord Mayor Elect, but still more does he congratulate the City Fathers on rising above
paltry sectarianism, so utterly unworthy of time, place, and persons, and for standing up,
in true English fashion, for freedom of worship coupled with absolute Liberty of Conscience.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRIDE OF THE EMPIRE.

At this moment there is really a very excellent extertainment at the Empire Theatre of Varieties,
something, or rather many things of which the Management may, and should be proud. A capital
troupe of Bicyclists, a Spanish Dancer and singer--whose gestures to the multitude are more
intelligible than her language--a graceful, serpentine dancer, and "a very peculiar American
Comedian"--all these are a part of the programme. But the best item in this liberal bill of
fare is Round the Town, a characteristic Ballet, in five tableaux. The composers of this pleasing
piece are Madame KATTI LANNER, and Mr. GEORGE EDWARDES. As the lady is well known for her admirable
dances, it may be safely presumed that the gentleman is solely responsible for the plot, or
rather "the argument." It runs as follows:--"Dr. Burch, newly arrived in London with his pupils,
wishes to show them the sights. What better to begin with than Covent Garden Market in the
early morning?" Quite so, the more especially as the lads must be very backward boys. There
are six of them, and the youngest seems about thirty, and the oldest about double that age.
The Doctor must have rescued them from Epsom Race Course, and apparently is attempting to give
them an education fitting them to follow what seems to be his own calling--the profession of
an undertaker. These elderly pupils follow their kind preceptor (for, although he is called
Burch, there is not the slightest suggestion of the rod about him, and, moreover, his charges
are really too elderly to receive chastisement) to the Royal Exchange, the Thames Embankment,
and, lastly, to the Empire. During their travels, they meet Mr. Rapless, known as "the Oofless
Swell," (a part amusingly played by Mr. W. WARDE), and John Brough, a carpenter with a taste
for ballet costumes and drink, the carpenter's wife, and the carpenter's child. Dr. Burch,
who is evidently easy-going, but good-hearted, after flirting with a lady who has her boots
cleaned before the Royal Exchange, suddenly developes into a philanthropist, not to say a divine.
On the carpenter's wife and child appearing on the Thames Embankment in the characters of would-be
suicides, the worthy pedagogue convinces them (to quote the programme) "That they have no right
to take away the lives which the Almighty has placed in their hands." Mother and child are
quickly convinced, and the neat but drunken father (Signorina MALVINA CAVALAZZI) appearing
on the scene, the good man informs him that his wife and child are dead, "driven to an untimely
grave by his (the intemperate but natty artisan's) desertion and cruelty." The effect of this
inaccurate statement is startling. To quote once more from the argument, "incontinently the
now penitent ruffian falls fainting to the ground." But he is brought back to himself, his
better self, by his child whispering "Father!" The situation is full of pathos, even when witnessed
from the Stalls. Recovering his senses, the converted carpenter promptly borrows money from
the good old Doctor, and when that estimable gentleman is about to enter the Empire Theatre
of Varieties (accompanied by his school), a little later he has the "satisfaction of seeing
his protégé Mortimer (the ex-ruffian), returning contentedly from his work." This is the simple
but pathetic story that Mr. GEO. EDWARDES touchingly tells with the assistance of a full corps
de ballet, five tableaux, and last, but certainly not least, the hints of Madame KATTI LANNER.

There are many remarkable persons in Round the Town. Notably an effeminate but substantial
stock-broker, who looks like a stock-jobber's maiden-aunt in disguise. Another important personage
is a representative of the Navy, whose figure suggests as an appropriate greeting, "Hip, hip,
hip, hooray!" Both these characters are well-played, and although subordinate parts, make their
mark, or rather, we should say, score heavily. Altogether; the ballet is excellent both in
dances and plot. The first is a testimony of the good head of Madame KATTI LANNER, and the
last of the equally good heart of Mr. GEORGE EDWARDES. There is no doubt that Round the Town
will draw all London to see (in its realistic scenes) all London drawn! A hundred years since,
the old Fighting Foudroyant was sold by the Admiralty to be broken up. The moment the Public
of the Period learned the cruel fact through the customary sources of information, they flew
to the rescue. Headed by the then LORD MAYOR, they raised a fund to bring back the discarded
vessel, and yet in those distant days there were they who denied that the Foudroyant had ever
done anything in particular. And now we propose doing the same thing. On the Thames there is
an ancient steamboat called Citizen Z, that once belonged to the Company that started penny
river lifts. It is certainly rather out of date, but is full of historical memories. It is
said that the Cabinet travelled to Greenwich on its venerable boards, where they feasted on
the half-forgotten Whitebait, and the entirely, superseded Champagne. It has carried, at one
time or another, all the nobility to Rosherville, there to spend (as the old saying went) "a
happy day," and yet it is proposed to break it up! Out upon the thought! Have we no veneration
for our relics of the past? Cannot we appreciate a boat that should have had an honoured place
in the Museum at Woolwich? Do not let this act of Vandalism be done. Save the steamer for the
sake of its past.

Yours truly, A REAR-ADMIRAL.

H.M.S. Electric-Balloon, Skye.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I appeal to you, and I know I shall not appeal in vain. The picturesque Cabman's
Shelter in the middle of Piccadilly is threatened! I hope you will exert your influence to
preserve it. It absolutely teems with historical associations. Lord RANDOLPH CHURCHILL is supposed
to have used it for writing his famous letter on the Poor-Laws, and to this day is shown the
initials of CHARLES STUART PARNELL which were carved by that celebrated statesman on one of
its benches about the middle of the last century--probably in 1854. And why is it to be removed?
Simply because it is said to impede the traffic! Could anything be more absurd? Do, pray, save
it from the hand of the ruthless "improver." Yours truly,

ONE WHO RESPECTS THE PAST.

Tumbledowns, West Kensington (late Reading).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT LAST!

(JEREMIAD BY A MIDDLE-AGED MARTYR TO THE GREAT SEASIDE SUPERSTITION.)

    ["To middle-aged people, at all events, nothing can be more
    trying and deleterious than holidays."--Daily News.]

  Oh, thanks to thee, thanks to thee, sage unconventional!
    Heaven be blest, the truth's out, then, at last!
  Holiday woes--'twould take volumes to mention all!--
    Now, in the lump, meet a shrewd counterblast.
  Trying? Of course they are! Most deleterious?
    Scribe, let me clasp thee, in thought, to this breast!
  Holiday-hunting is Man's most mysterious,
            Maddening guest!

  Quixote, I swear, was a model of sanity,
    When with the Holiday-seeker compared.
  Fidgety folly, and fussy inanity.
    These be the figments by which we are snared.
  Soon as you're drawn from your own cosy drawing-room,
    Far over flood, field, or foam--for your sins--
  Then, when your breast makes for vulturine gnawing room,
            Bother begins!

  Bother, that bugbear of bufferish Middle-Age!
    Swift "scurry-funging" may do for the young,
  The "hey-diddle-diddle, the Cat-and-the-fiddle" age.
    "Over the moon" I myself once had sprung,
  Thirty years syne, in sheer fervour athletical--
    Now, like the dog, I would laugh, and look on.
  Once, with sheer "drive," I'd a sense sympathetical--
            Now I have none!

  Holiday? Term, Sir, is simply a synonym
    For--waste of tissue! What doctor will dare
  Tell his poor patients so? I'll put my tin on him!
    Rest? Recreation? Pick-up? Change of air?
  All question-begging fudge-phrases of sophistry!
    Let city-toilers who're fagged or "run down,"
  Autumnal quiet (in home or in office), try;
            Not "out of town."

  Out of town? Where is the term that's claptrappier?
    Means out of temper, or out of your mind.
  Boot-black or old crossing-sweeper's far happier,
    Tied to his task in the town--as you'll find.
  Picking up coppers far better than picking up
    Shells by the sea, or sham friends on the snore.
  Bah! What have buffers to do with such kicking-up
            Heels? It's a bore!

  Who'll start a League to be called Anti-Holiday?
    Bet half the middle-aged men-folk will join!
  Then we might get an occasional jolly day,
    Free from the pests who perplex and purloin.
  "Health-Resort" quackery, portmanteau-packery,
    Cheat-brigade charges and chills I might miss.
  Dear-bought jimcrackery, female knicknackery!--
            Oh! 'twere pure bliss!

       *       *       *       *       *

BRAVO, BOBBY!

    ["The Brighton Police have received orders to move on all
    organ-grinders."]

  Bless you, Brighton Bobby, bless you,
    Boldly bringing balmy bliss!
  Barrel--organ barred--I guess you
    Banish blatant bands with this.

  Brazen blasts, by boobies blowing,
    Bad as barrel's buzz can be.
  Bid them budge! I'd vote for throwing
    Beggars like these in the sea.

  Battered bands from Bremen, Berlin;
    Bearded bandits, born between
  Bari and Bergamo, hurl in!
    Bathed--that's what they've never been!

  Britons all, oh, be not laggards,
    But, like Brighton, move them on!
  Bad, bacteria-hearing black-guards,
    Beastly, blatant brutes, begone!

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER ABOUT THE NEW LORD MAYOR ELECT.--"It's a Knill wind that blows nobody any good." Signed,
BOGIE MOORE.

       *       *       *       *       *

L'ESPRIT DE CORPS (loq.). "SHAME! SHAME!--IS IT THUS YOU USE YOUR SWORDS? WHATEVER MAY HAVE
HAPPENED, ARE WE NOT STILL 'GENTLEMEN OF THE LIFE GUARDS'?"

    "It is stated that Lord METHUEN, after censuring the
    conduct of the regiment, requested the men who had cut the
    saddle-panels to step forward and own the act, which would in
    that case be dealt with simply as a case of insubordination.
    He gave them a few minutes to consider, but as none of them
    made any admission, he intimated that he should have to report
    the matter to the Commander-in-Chief as a mutiny."--Daily
    Paper, 30th Sept., 1892.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DE CORONA.

    ["The shape of the hat is another token in which individuality
    asserts itself, and the angle at which it is worn. There are
    men who vary this angle with their different moods."--Article
    on "Men's Dress," Daily News, Sept. 10.]

  You ask why I gaze with devotion
    At ALGERNON's features, my love?
  Nay, you are astray in your notion,
    My glance is directed above;
  His hair may be yellow or ruddy,
    No longer I'm anxious for that,
  But now I incessantly study
          The tilt of his hat.

  At times it will carelessly dangle
    With an air of æsthetic repose,
  At others will point to an angle
    Inclined to the tip of his nose;
  When it rests on the side of his head, he
    Will smile at whatever befalls,
  When pushed o'er his brow, we make ready
          For numerous squalls!

  When he starts for his train to the City
    It is put on exactly upright,
  And who would not view it with pity
    Return, mud-bespattered, at night?
  When early, so polished and glowing,
    Jammed on at haphazard when late;
  It forms a barometer, showing
          His mood up to date.

  And you, who are young and unmarried,
    Give heed to my counsel, I pray;
  Do not, I entreat you, be carried
    By wealth or affection away;
  The heroine, novelists mention,
    "Eyes fondly his features." Instead,
  Observe, for your part, with attention,
          The hat on his head!

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW COLLECTION OF HIMS, ANCIENT AND MODERN.--The Church Congress at Folkestone.

There was only one thing that annoyed me during the week, and that was the inconsiderate behaviour
of Windgall in winning the October Handicap, although it was a most extraordinary confirmation
of my remarks anent his performance in the Leicester Handicap, in my last letter; but it is
annoying that, when you select a horse to win a race, he runs second, and directly after wins
a race for which he is not selected, beating the horse chosen by a length!--it puzzles me completely,
as it is impossible in this case to put it down to want of good breeding! We were sorry not
to have the Buccaneer-Orvieto match decided, as it would have been the event of the meeting;
but, as the old proverb runs, "a wise owner is merciful to his beast," so Orvieto had an afternoon's
rest at the price of £100!--rather more than some people might be inclined to pay for a game
of forfeits!

The time is not yet ripe--(has anyone ever seen time get ripe, I wonder?)--for disclosing what
I know about the Cesarewitch--(I never know whether I've spelt that correctly or not!--and
the more you look at it the "wronger" it seems!)--but I may mention that I've heard great accounts
of Kingkneel, who was bought the other day for Sir GREENASH BURNLEY (the latest favourite of
fortune, and beloved of the ring)--and had he not earned a penalty--(this expression ought
to be changed, as it implies, to my mind, which is an excellent average sample; a misdemeanor)--by
winning a paltry thousand pounds race somewhere; I really believe the Cesare--no!--not again!--was
at his mercy--but now, as the turf-writer puts it--"I shall look elsewhere!"--as if that would
make any difference!--but of this race, more anon, and meantime, those who are fond of the
"good things" of this life must not miss my selection for the big race of next week at Kempton--on
the Jubilee Course, which said course, I am told, is by no means a Jubilee for the jockeys,
owing to the danger in "racing for the bend."

There are several horses entered who seem to have great chances, making the race as difficult
as a problem in Euclid--but my selection will most certainly be "there, or thereabouts," which
is a comforting, if somewhat vague reflection.

Yours truly, LADY GAY.

DUKE OF YORK STAKES SELECTION.

  The muse is dull!--the day is dead!
    And vain is all endeavour
  To light afresh the poet's spark--
    I can't find a rhyme for the winner,
          Iddesleigh,

P.S.--Really it's most thoughtless of owners to harass one with such names!

       *       *       *       *       *

"IN THIS STYLE, TWO-AND-SIX."

(IN THE POUND).

SIR,--I have been much struck with the suggestion to do without hats, and have made trial of
the system. It has also made trial of me, in the way of colds in the head, bronchial catarrh,
&c., but I still persevere. It's so much cheaper! I have sold my stock of old hats for half-a-crown,
and calculate that I shall save quite three shillings per annum by not buying new ones. Surely
anybody can see that this is well worth doing! I am now seriously contemplating the possibility
of doing without boots!

Yours truly, SAVE THE SAXPENCES.

SIR,--Talk about hair growing if you leave off hats! My hair was falling off in handfuls a
little time ago. Did I abjure hats altogether? Not being a born idiot, I did not. But I saw
that what was needed was proper ventilation aloft. So I had a specially-constructed top-hat
made, with holes all round it. In fact there were more holes than hat, and the hatter scornfully
referred to it as a "sieve." The invention answered splendidly. There was a thorough draught
constantly rushing across the top of my head, with the speed and violence of a first-class
tornado. My locks, before so scanty, at once began to grow in such profusion that it now seems
impossible to stop them, except by liberal applications of "Crinificatrix," the Patent Hair
Restorer. That checks the growth effectually. My general name among chance acquaintances is
"Old Doormat." You can judge how thick my hair must be and I ascribe it entirely to the beneficent
action of the draught, as before,

Yours, WELL-COVERED.

DEAR SIR,--Why would it be a mistake to say that a Negro was "as black as my hat?" Because
I never wear one. The only inconvenience resulting is in wet weather--but, even then, I am
prepared for all emergencies. I keep in my pocket a little square of black waterproof, to cover
my head when it rains. In an Assize town, the other day, I was followed by an angry crowd,
who imagined that I was one of the Judges, and that I had gone mad, and was walking about the
streets with the black cap on! But all true reformers are treated in this way, even in England,
the land of Liberty.

Yours, HATZOFF.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Beware the Jabberwock, my son!
    The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!"--
  Ah, CARROLL! it is not in fun
    Your song's light lilt we snatch.

  Our Jabberwock's a real brute,
    With mighty maw, and ruthless hand,
  Who ravage makes beyond compute
    In Civic Blunderland.

  Look at the ogre's hideous mouth!
    His tiger-teeth, his dragon-tail!
  O'er Town, East, West, and North and South,
    He leaves his slimy trail.

  And where he comes all Beauty dies,
    And where he halts all Greenery fades.
  Pleasantness flies where'er he plies
    His gruesomest of trades.

  He blights the field, he blasts the wood,
    With breath as fierce as prairie flame;
  And where sweet works of Nature stood,
    He leaves us--slums of shame.

  The locust and the canker-worm
    Are not more ruinous than he.
  "I'll take this Eden--for a term!"
    He cries, and howls with glee.

  "Beauty? Mere bosh! Charm? Utter rot!
    What boots your 'Earthly Paradise,'
  Until 'tis made 'A Building Plot'?
    Then it indeed looks nice!

  "O Jerry Street! O Jerry Park!
    O Jerry Gardens, Jerry Square!--
  You won't discover--what a lark!--
    One 'touch of Nature' there!

  "'This handsome Villa Residence'
    Means mud-built walls and clay-clogged walks;
  And drains offensive to the sense,
    And swamps whence fever stalks.

  "Beauty's best friends I drive away,
    Artists who sketch, ramblers who rove,
  Lovers who spoon, children who play,--
    All, all who Nature love.

  "Nor do I give them wholesome homes
    For verdant meads--no, there's the fun!
  Stuccodom, frail and sickly, comes
    After 'Lot Twenty-One!'

  "I make a clearing, dig a trench,
    Run up a shell of rotten bricks.
  And thus the rule of sham and stench
    Upon the 'site' I fix.

  "The ugly and unhealthy still
    Associate with the name of Jerry;
  And thus I work my wicked will,
    And flourish, and make merry!"

  'Twas so the Jerry-Jabberwock
    Sang in a suburb, void of shame,
  Blunderland's civic will to mock,
    And put its sense to shame.

  This ogre of our towns to slay,
    Where is the urban "Beamish Boy"?
  CARROLL, when comes that "frabjous day,"
    We'll "chortle in our joy."

  Young County Council, are you one?
    'Tis said you're but a Bumble-batch!
  Beware the Jobjob Bird, and shun
    The Bigot-Bandersnatch!

  We'll pardon much that seems absurd,
    Excuse some blunders that bewilder,
  If you'll but "draw your vorpal sword"
    And slay--the Jerry-Builder!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODERN MERCURY.

  Behold that urchin, occupied
  In counting with an honest pride
    The marbles he has won!
  O tardy messenger of fate,
  Without distinction, small and great,
  Their telegrams, perforce, await
    Until your game is done.

  Perchance a philosophic strain
  Makes you regard as wholly vain
    Our human bliss and woes;
  What matters, whether State affairs,
  Or news of good, or weighty carts,
  Or tidings relative to shares
    Within your bag repose?

  Well, not by me will you be blamed;
  I like to see you not ashamed
   To dawdle for awhile;
  You furnish, by example sage,
  A moral for our busy age;
  And so, though others fume and rage,
    I watch you with a smile.

  He moves at length, and now we'll see
  Which way ... This telegram for me?
    Oh, worst of human crimes
  Is such delay!--it's monstrous quite!
  I'll forward a complaint to-night!
  Here, pen and paper--let me write
    A letter to the Times!

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. RAM was heard to remark that she "didn't know a finer body of men than the Yokel Loamanry."
Probably the old lady meant the Local Yeomanry.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS TO ABSTRACTIONS.

NO. XVI.--TO YOUTHFULNESS.

You are much misunderstood. For it is supposed that those who in this world bear your stamp
upon them are to be recognised without trouble by the mere calculation of their years of life.
No notion can be further from the truth. Mere absence of wrinkles, the presence or colour of
the hair on the head, the elasticity of limbs, these do not of themselves, I protest, testify
to youthfulness. I knew a lad of twenty, who, in the judgment of the world, was young. In mine
he was one of the hoariest as he was one of the least scrupulous of men. No veteran that I
ever met could have put him up to any trick, or added any experience to his store. He seemed
to have a marvellous and intuitive experience of the ways of life, and of the tricks of men.
No shady society came amiss to him. He gambled, in his way, as coolly, and with as careful
a precision, as Barry Lyndon; he met the keen frequenters of the betting-ring on equal terms,
and contrived, amid that vortex to keep his head above water. He had a faultless taste in wine--he
knew a good cigar by an instinct. It is hardly necessary to add that, with all these accomplishments,
he held and expressed the meanest opinion of human nature in general. Not even Sir ROBERT WALPOLE
could have more cynically estimated the price at which men might be bought. As for women, this
precocious paragon despised them, and women, as is their wont, repaid him by admiration, and,
here and there, by genuine affection. I shudder to think how he might have developed in the
course of years. It happened, however, that a shipwreck--a form of disaster against which cynicism
and precocity afford no protection--removed him from the world before he had come of age. Now,
to call this infant young, would have been a mockery. To all outward appearance, indeed, he
was a boy, but his mind was that of a selfish and used-up roué of sixty, without illusions,
and without hope.

Let me pass to a more pleasant subject, and one with which you, my dear boy, are more closely
connected. I refer to my old friend. General VANGARD, the kindest and best-natured man that
ever drew half-pay. Seventy years have passed over his head, and turned his hair to silver,
but his heart remains pure gold without alloy. In vain do his whiskers and moustache attempt
to give a touch of fierceness to his face. The kindly eyes smile it away in a moment. He stands
six feet and an inch, his back his broad, his step springy; he carries his head erect on his
massive shoulders with a leonine air of good-humoured defiance. To hear him greet you, to feel
his hand-shake, is to get a lesson in geniality. I never knew a man who had so whole-hearted
a contempt for insincerity and affectation. It was only the other day that I saw little TOM
TITTERTON, of the Diplomatic Service, introduced to him. TOM is a devil of a fellow in Society.
He warbles little songs of his own composition at afternoon teas, he insinuates himself into
the elderly affections of stony-hearted dowagers, he can lead a cotillon to perfection, and
is universally acknowledged as an authority on gloves and handkerchiefs. It was at a shooting-party
that he and the General met. The little fellow advanced simpering, and raised a limp and dangling
hand to about the height of his eyes. The General had extended his in his usual bluff and unceremonious
manner. Naturally enough the hands failed to meet. A puzzled look came over the General's face.
In a moment, however, he had grasped the situation, and TITTERTON's hand, and shaken the latter
with a ferocious heartiness. "OW!" screamed TOM. It was a short exclamation, but a world of
agony was concentrated into it. "The old bear has spoilt my shooting for the day," said TITTERTON
to me afterwards, as he missed his tenth partridge. That very evening, I remember, there was
a great discussion in the smoking-room on the subject of wrestling. One of the party, a burly
youth of twenty-six, boasted somewhat loudly of the tricks that a Cornishman had lately taught
him. For a long time the General sat silently puffing his cigar, but at length the would-be
wrestler said something that roused him. "Would you mind showing me how that's done?" he said;
"I seem to remember something about it, but it was done differently in my time. No doubt your
notion's an improvement." Nothing loth the burly one stood up. I don't quite know what happened.
The General seemed to stoop with outstretched hands and then raise himself with a spring as
he met his opponent. A large body hurtled through the air, and in a moment the younger man
was lying flat on the carpet amidst the shouts of the company. "It's the old 'flying mare'
my boy," said the General to me, "a very useful dodge. I learnt it fifty years ago."

In the company of young men the General is at his very best. He knows all their little weaknesses,
and chaffs them with delightful point and humour, though he would not, for all the world, give
them pain. It is a pleasant sight to see the old fellow with a party of his young friends,
poking sly fun at them, laughing with them, taking all their jests in good part, and thoroughly
enjoying himself. He can walk most of them off their legs still, can row with them on the broad
reaches of the Thames, and keep his form with the best of them; he can hold his gun straight
at driven birds, and revel like a boy in a rattling run to hounds across country. All the youngsters
respect him by instinct, and love the cheery old fellow, whose heart is as soft as his muscles
are hard. They talk to him as to an elder brother, come to him for his advice, and, which is
perhaps even more strange, like it, and follow it. Withal, the General is the most modest of
men. In his youth he was a mighty man of war. It was only the other day that I heard (not from
his own lips, you may be sure) the thrilling stories of his hand-to-hand conflict with two
gigantic Russians in the fog of Inkermann, and of his rescue of a wounded Sergeant at the attack
in the Redan. With women, old or young, the General uses an old-fashioned and chivalrous courtesy,
as far removed from latter-day smartness as was BAYARD from BOULANGER. The younger ones adore
him. They all seem to be his nieces, for they all call him Uncle JOHN.

A year or two ago the General fell ill, and the doctors shook their heads. It was touching
to see the concern of all his young friends. CHARLIE CHIRPER, a gay little butterfly of a fellow,
who never seemed to treat life as anything but a huge joke, became gloomy with anxiety. Twice
every day he called to make inquiries, and, as the bulletins got worse, CHARLIE became visibly
thinner. I saw him at the Club one evening, sitting moodily in a corner. "What's up, CHARLIE?"
I said to him. "You look as if you'd been refused by an heiress." "The Old General's worse
to-day," said CHARLIE, simply. "They're very anxious about him. No, dash it all!" he went on,
"it's too bad. I can't bear to think of it. Such an old ripper as the General! Why must they
take him? Why can't they take a useless chap like me, who never did anyone any good?" And the
unaccustomed tears came into the lad's eyes as he turned his head away. But the old General
battled through, and, thank Heaven, I can still write of him in the present tense.

Yours as always, my dear boy, DIOGENES ROBINSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ANECDOTAGE."

(COMPANION VOLUME TO OTHER WORKS OF THE SAME KIND.)

A traveller in Italy during the middle ages knew a Chemist very well indeed. One day a rather
stylish Lady, with a shifty look about the eyes, entered the shop and asked for some poison.
"I cannot furnish you. Madam, with what you require. I have quarrelled with the undertaker."
The Traveller subsequently ascertained that the name of the lady was LUCREZIA BORGIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just before the Battle of Waterloo, FOUCHÉ met BONAPARTE, who was then in command of the French
Army. He said, "You will find that, before this campaign is over, I shall have on one foot
a BLUCHER, and on the other a WELLINGTON. It is fortunate for me I cannot find pairs of both!
This is a proof (if one is needed) of the EMPEROR's fear of fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS was (as a lad) very fond of exploration. One day he went over to America,
and, arriving at his destination, christened it Columbia. The land of the Yankees, even now,
is occasionally known by this appellation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Punch one day was invited to listen to Someone's Recollections or Reminiscences. All went
well for five minutes, when the Autobiographist, looking up from his Autobiography, found that
Mr. Punch was fast asleep. The Sage slumbered as the Representative of the Public.

