Miss ETHEL SIDGWICK (long life to her as one of our optimist conquerors!) still keeps her preference
for the creation of charming people and her rare talent for making them alive. But I wonder
if she is not refining her brilliant technique to the point of occasional obscurity of intention.
At least I know I had to re-read a good many passages to be quite sure what was in fact intended.
An implied compliment, no doubt; but are all readers so virtuous? ("or so dull?" quoth she).
Hatchways (SIDGWICK AND JACKSON) is one of those happily comfortable, just right houses with
a hostess, Ernestine, whom everybody loves and nobody (save her husband, and he not in this
book) makes love to. Holmer, on the other hand, is the adjoining ducal mansion with a distinctly
uncomfortable dowager still in command who can't even arrange her dinner-parties and fails
to marry her sons to the right people. Perpetually Hatchways is wiping the eye of Holmer, and
this touches the nerve of the great lady. Her sons, Wickford, the authentic but hardly reigning
duke, and Lord Iveagh Suir, the queer impressionable (on whom the author has spent much pains
to excellent effect), both take their troubles to Ernestine. And a young French aviator (this
is a pre-War story), guest at Hatchways, analyses and discusses situations and characters from
his coign of privilege--a device adroitly handled by the discreet author, who adds two charming
girls, coquette Lise, Iveagh's first love, and wise, loyal, perceptive Bess, whom he found
at last. To those who appreciate subtle portraiture let me commend this study.... I feel just
as if I had been for a long week-end at Hatchways, anxiously wondering, as I write my "roofer,"
if I shall be so lucky as to be asked again.

       *       *       *       *       *

I think there is little doubt that you will agree with me in calling The Flaming Sword (HODDER
AND STOUGHTON) as noble and absorbing a story of fine work finely done as any that the War
has produced. It is the history, told by herself, of Mrs. ST. CLAIR STOBART's Red Cross Mission
"in Serbia and Elsewhere." The frontispiece, Mr. GEORGE HANKIN's moving picture of The Lady
of the Black Horse (a name always to be honoured among our Allies), catches the spirit of the
heroic tale and prepares you for what the Lady herself has to tell. Mrs. STOBART is no sentimentalist;
fighting and the overcoming of obstacles are, one would say, congenial to her mettle; time
and again, even in the midst of her story of the terrible retreat, with the German guns ever
thundering nearer, she can yet spare a moment to strike shrewdly and hard for her own side
in the other struggle towards feminine emancipation which is always obviously close to her
heart. Certainly she has well earned the right to be heard with respect. Read this high-spirited
account of the difficulties--mud, disease, prejudice, famine--through which the writer brought
her charge triumphantly to safety, and you will be inclined, with me, to throw your critical
cap into the air and thank Heaven for such women of our race, which would be to invite, not
unsuccessfully, some withering snub from the very lady you were endeavouring to praise. But
that can't be helped. Meantime of her exploit and the book that recounts it I can sum up my
verdict in the only Serbian that I have gleaned from its pages--Dobro, Dobro! For a translation
of which you know where to apply.

       *       *       *       *       *

So many battle books have been pouring from the press lately that it is difficult to keep pace
with them, and harder still to find something fresh to say of each; but quot homines tot points
of individual interest, and for those whose concern lies more especially with the New Zealand
Forces and their campaigns I can very safely recommend a volume which the official war correspondent
to that contingent and his son have jointly published under the title of Light and Shade in
War (ARNOLD). Whether it is Mr. MALCOLM ROSS who supplies the light, and Mr. NOEL ROSS the
shade, or vice versa, we are given no means of ascertaining. Between them they have certainly
put together an agreeable patchwork of small and easily read pieces, most of which have already
appeared in journalistic form. It is perhaps parental prejudice that makes Mr. Punch consider
the best of the bunch to be "Abdul," one of three slight sketches that originally saw the light
in his own pages. Abdul is a joy, also a thief, a society entertainer, and a Cairo hospital
orderly. I can only hope that the story of how he displayed his patient's sun-browned knees
as a raree show to the convulsed G.O.C. and lady, who were visiting the hospital, is at least
founded on fact. The publishers are entirely justified in saying that these impressions, made
often under actual fire, have both colour and intimacy. So I wish them good luck in the campaign
for popular favour.

       *       *       *       *       *

François Villon, His Life and Times (HUTCHINSON) is one of those fortunate volumes that arrive
to fill a long vacant corner. So far as I know, with the exception perhaps of STEVENSON's study,
there has been no means by which the casual reader, as apart from the student, could correct
his probably very vague ideas about the Father of Realism. Mr. H. DE VERE STACPOOLE, approaching
the subject not for the first time, here essays a brief life and appreciation of the poet,
told in picturesque but simple style. Sometimes indeed the simplicity is apt to appear overdone,
so that one gets a suggestion that the story is being presented to us in thoughts of one syllable.
Apart from this, however, there is much to be said for Mr. STACPOOLE's vivid reconstruction
of mediæval France, and the Paris that sheltered VILLON himself, TABARY, MONTIGNY and the others--that
group of shadows whom we see only by the lightning of genius. They and their contemporaries
pass before us here like a pageant woven upon tapestry. Occasionally indeed Mr. STACPOOLE looks
suddenly round the tapestry, even (one might say) tears a hole in it and pushes his head through,
with a startling effect. But as he has always the good excuse of sympathy with his subject
one easily forgives him these generous impulses. As I said before, a book that has had its
place long reserved.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you happen to remember that most excellent book, Brother-in-Law to Potts, you may recall
that the principal motive in it is the spiritualising influence of a certain Lady Beautiful,
very lightly and even intangibly presented, on the lives of some other persons of a more material
clay. In Obstacles (CHAPMAN AND HALL), Mrs. "PARRY TRUSCOTT" has returned to her previous subject,
but with the notable difference that she now traces the influence brought in turn to bear upon
the lady herself, who emerges from her semi-divine obscurity to become the heroine of the story.
If in her background sketch of the munitions factory where Susannah elects to work the writer
does not trouble much about technical detail or even attempt to suggest any particular acquaintance
with such matters as lathes or shell bodies, yet she does convey, with striking simplicity
and naturalness, the impression of a world at war, and for the rest she is content to bring
her heroine in contact with the lives that are to affect her and the environment of comparative
poverty that is to help her to a decision. What that decision was, and how unnecessary too,
is sufficiently indicated if I say that she was blessed with most understanding parents, who
positively preferred that her suitor should be a poor man. And so the happy future that surely
no authoress and most certainly no male reader could have the heart to refuse to so delightful
a Susannah is available to complete a picture touched throughout with singular grace and charm.
In particular the little snap-shots of two ideal family households, the one that includes the
heroine, and another, much humbler, which she enters as an honoured guest, go to make this
volume, all too short though it is, one that I can recommend with quite unusual pleasure and
confidence.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR CITIZEN SOLDIERS.

    "Lord George H. Cholmondeley, M.C., Hotts Royal Horse
    Artillery, who has just been promoted to the rank of mayor in
    that Territorial Corps."--Cheshire Observer.

We congratulate His Worship and also the Hotts.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The General Committee and all clergy and ministers (as well
    as the choir) are invited to sit on the orchestra."--Western
    Morning News.

We are afraid the orchestra has not been doing its best.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WRAPPING paper (in sheets and reels) and Twins; large stock.
    Please state size required, and we will quote best cash
    terms."--Irish Paper.

An obvious attempt to cut into the trade of the dairyman whose speciality is "Families Supplied."