"Mr. Johnston says tile-draining pays for itself in two seasons, sometimes in one. Thus, in
1847, he bought a piece of 10 acres to get an outlet for his drains. It was a perfect quagmire,
covered with coarse aquatic grasses, and so unfruitful that it would not give back the seed
sown upon it. In 1848 a crop of corn was taken from it, which was measured and found to be
eighty bushels per acre, and as, because of the Irish famine, corn was worth $1 per bushel
that year, this crop paid not only all the expense of drainage, but the first cost of the land
as well.

"Another piece of 20 acres, adjoining the farm of the late John Delafield, was wet, and would
never bring more than 10 bushels of corn per acre. This was drained at a great cost, nearly
$30 per acre. The first crop after this was 83 bushels and some odd pounds per acre. It was
weighed and measured by Mr. Delafield, and the County Society awarded a premium to Mr. Johnston.
Eight acres and some rods of this land, at one side, averaged 94 bushels, or the trifling increase
of 84 bushels per acre over what it would bear before those insignificant clay tiles were buried
in the ground. But this increase of crop is not the only profit of drainage; for Mr. Johnston
says that, on drained land, one half the usual quantity of manure suffices to give maximum
crops. It is not difficult to find a reason for this. When the soil is sodden with water, air
can not enter to any extent, and hence oxygen can not eat off the surfaces of soil-particles
and prepare food for plants; thus the plant must in great measure depend on the manure for
sustenance, and, of course, the more this is the case, the more manure must be applied to get
good crops. This is one reason, but there are others which we might adduce if one good one
were not sufficient.

"Mr. Johnston says he never made money until he drained, and so convinced is he of the benefits
accruing from the practice, that he would not hesitate,—as he did not when the result was much
more uncertain than at present,—to borrow money to drain. Drains well laid, endure, but unless
a farmer intends doing the job well, he had best leave it alone and grow poor, and move out
West, and all that sort of thing. Occupiers of apparently dry land are not safe in concluding
that they need not go to the expense of draining, for if they will but dig a three-foot ditch
in even the driest soil, water will be found in the bottom at the end of eight hours, and if
it does come, then draining will pay for itself speedily."

Some years ago, the Rural New Yorker published a letter from one of its correspondents from
which the following is extracted:—

    "I recollect calling upon a gentleman in the harvest field, when
    something like the following conversation occurred:

    ’Your wheat, sir, looks very fine; how many acres have you in this
    field?’

    ’In the neighborhood of eight, I judge.’

    ’Did you sow upon fallow?’

    ’No sir. We turned over green sward—sowed immediately upon the
    sod, and dragged it thoroughly—and you see the yield will probably
    be 25 bushels to the acre, where it is not too wet.’

    ’Yes sir, it is mostly very fine. I observed a thin strip through
    it, but did not notice that it was wet.’

    ’Well, it is not very wet. Sometimes after a rain, the water
    runs across it, and in spring and fall it is just wet enough to
    heave the wheat and kill it.’

    I inquired whether a couple of good drains across the lot would
    not render it dry.

    ’Perhaps so—but there is not over an acre that is killed out.’

    ’Have you made an estimate of the loss you annually sustain from
    this wet place?’

    ’No, I had not thought much about it.’

    ’Would $30 be too high?’

    ’O yes, double.’

