The splendid wall, flanked by nine towers, that descends from the court of Tekfour Serai to
the level tract below Egri Kapu, was built by Manuel Comnenus (1143-1180) for the greater security
of the part of the city in which stood the palace of Blachernae, then the favourite imperial
residence. Lastly, the portion of the fortifications between the wall of Manuel and the wall
of Heraclius presents too many problems to be discussed here. Enough to say, that in it we
find work belonging to the times of the Comneni, Isaac Angelus and the Palaeologi.

If we leave out of account the attacks upon the city in the course of the civil wars between
rival parties in the empire, the fortifications of Constantinople were assailed by the Avars
in 627; by the Saracens in 673-677, and again in 718; by the Bulgarians in 813 and 913; by
the forces of the Fourth Crusade in 1203-1204; by the Turks in 1422 and 1453. The city was
taken in 1204, and became the seat of a Latin empire until 1261, when it was recovered by the
Greeks. On the 29th of May 1453 Constantinople ceased to be the capital of the Roman empire
in the East, and became the capital of the Ottoman dominion.

The most noteworthy points in the circuit of the walls of the city are the following. (1) The
Golden gate, now included in the Turkish fortress of Yedi Kuléh. It is a triumphal archway,
consisting of three arches, erected in honour of the victory of Theodosius I. over Maximus
in 388, and subsequently incorporated in the walls of Theodosius II., as the state entrance
of the capital. (2) The gate of Selivria, or of the Pegé, through which Alexius Strategopoulos
made his way into the city in 1261, and brought the Latin empire of Constantinople to an end.
(3) The gate of St Romanus (Top Kapusi), by which, in 1453, Sultan Mahommed entered Constantinople
after the fall of the city into Turkish hands. (4) The great breach made in the ramparts crossing
the valley of the Lycus, the scene of the severest fighting in the siege of 1453, where the
Turks stormed the city, and the last Byzantine emperor met his heroic death. (5) The palace
of the Porphyrogenitus, long erroneously identified with the palace of the Hebdomon, which
really stood at Makrikeui. It is the finest specimen of Byzantine civil architecture left in
the city. (6) The tower of Isaac Angelus and the tower of Anemas, with the chambers in the
body of the wall to the north of them. (7) The wall of Leo, against which the troops of the
Fourth Crusade came, in 1203, from their camp on the hill opposite the wall, and delivered
their chief attack. (8) The walls protecting the quarter of Phanar, which the army and fleet
of the Fourth Crusade under the Venetian doge Henrico Dandolo carried in 1204. (9) Yali Kiosk
Kapusi, beside which the southern end of the chain drawn across the mouth of the harbour during
a siege was attached. (10) The ruins of the palace of Hormisdas, near Chatladi Kapu, once the
residence of Justinian the Great and Theodora. It was known in later times as the palace of
the Bucoleon, and was the scene of the assassination of Nicephorus Phocas. (11) The sites of
the old harbours between Chatladi Kapu and Daud Pasha Kapusi. (12) The fine marble tower near
the junction of the walls along the Marmora with the landward walls.

The interior arrangements of the city were largely determined by the configuration of its site,
which falls into three great divisions,--the level ground and slopes looking towards the Sea
of Marmora, the range of hills forming the midland portion of the promontory, and the slopes
and level ground facing the Golden Horn. In each division a great street ran through the city
from east to west, generally lined with arcades on one side, but with arcades on both sides
when traversing the finer and busier quarters. The street along the ridge formed the principal
thoroughfare, and was named the Mesé ([Greek: Mesê]), because it ran through the middle of
the city. On reaching the west of the 3rd hill, it divided into two branches, one leading across
the 7th hill to the Golden gate, the other conducting to the church of the Holy Apostles, and
the gate of Charisius (Edirnéh Kapusi). The Mesé linked together the great fora of the city,--the
Augustaion on the south of St Sophia, the forum of Constantine on the summit of the 2nd hill,
the forum of Theodosius I. or of Taurus on the summit of the 3rd hill, the forum of Amastrianon
where the mosque of Shah Zadéh is situated, the forum of the Bous at Ak Serai, and the forum
of Arcadius or Theodosius II. on the summit of the 7th hill. This was the route followed on
the occasion of triumphal processions.

Of the edifices and monuments which adorned the fora, only a slight sketch can be given here.
On the north side of the Augustaion rose the church of St Sophia, the most glorious cathedral
of Eastern Christendom; opposite, on the southern side of the square, was the Chalcé, the great
gate of the imperial palace; on the east was the senate house, with a porch of six noble columns;
to the west, across the Mesé, were the law courts. In the area of the square stood the Milion,
whence distances from Constantinople were measured, and a lofty column which bore the equestrian
statue of Justinian the Great. There also was the statue of the empress Eudoxia, famous in
the history of Chrysostom, the pedestal of which is preserved near the church of St Irené.
The Augustaion was the heart of the city's ecclesiastical and political life. The forum of
Constantine was a great business centre. Its most remarkable monument was the column of Constantine,
built of twelve drums of porphyry and bearing aloft his statue. Shorn of much of its beauty,
the column still stands to proclaim the enduring influence of the foundation of the city.

In the forum of Theodosius I. rose a column in his honour, constructed on the model of the
hollow columns of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius at Rome. There also was the Anemodoulion, a beautiful
pyramidal structure, surmounted by a vane to indicate the direction of the wind. Close to the
forum, if not in it, was the capitol, in which the university of Constantinople was established.
The most conspicuous object in the forum of the Bous was the figure of an ox, in bronze, beside
which the bodies of criminals were sometimes burnt. Another hollow column, the pedestal of
which is now known as Avret Tash, adorned the forum of Arcadius. A column in honour of the
emperor Marcian still stands in the valley of the Lycus, below the mosque of Sultan Mahommed
the Conqueror. Many beautiful statues, belonging to good periods of Greek and Roman art, decorated
the fora, streets and public buildings of the city, but conflagrations and the vandalism of
the Latin and Ottoman conquerors of Constantinople have robbed the world of those treasures.

The imperial palace, founded by Constantine and extended by his successors, occupied the territory
which lies to the east of St Sophia and the Hippodrome down to the water's edge. It consisted
of a large number of detached buildings, in grounds made beautiful with gardens and trees,
and commanding magnificent views over the Sea of Marmora, across to the hills and mountains
of the Asiatic coast. The buildings were mainly grouped in three divisions--the Chalcé, the
Daphné and the "sacred palace." Labarte and Paspates have attempted to reconstruct the palace,
taking as their guide the descriptions given of it by Byzantine writers. The work of Labarte
is specially valuable, but without proper excavations of the site all attempts to restore the
plan of the palace with much accuracy lack a solid foundation. With the accession of Alexius
Comnenus, the palace of Blachernae, at the north-western corner of the city, became the principal
residence of the Byzantine court, and was in consequence extended and embellished. It stood
in a more retired position, and was conveniently situated for excursions into the country and
hunting expeditions. Of the palaces outside the walls, the most frequented were the palace
at the Hebdomon, now Makrikeui, in the early days of the Empire, and the palace of the Pegé,
now Balukli, a short distance beyond the gate of Selivria, in later times. For municipal purposes,
the city was divided, like Rome, into fourteen Regions.

As the seat of the chief prelate of Eastern Christendom, Constantinople was characterized by
a strong theological and ecclesiastical temperament. It was full of churches and monasteries,
enriched with the reputed relics of saints, prophets and martyrs, which consecrated it a holy
city and attracted pilgrims from every quarter to its shrines. It was the meeting-place of
numerous ecclesiastical councils, some of them ecumenical (see below, Constantinople, Councils
of). It was likewise distinguished for its numerous charitable institutions. Only some twenty
of the old churches of the city are left. Most of them have been converted into mosques, but
they are valuable monuments of the art which flourished in New Rome. Among the most interesting
are the following. St John of the Studium (Emir-Achor Jamissi) is a basilica of the middle
of the 5th century, and the oldest ecclesiastical fabric in the city; it is now, unfortunately,
almost a complete ruin. SS. Sergius and Bacchus (Kutchuk Aya Sofia) and St Sophia are erections
of Justinian the Great. The former is an example of a dome placed on an octagonal structure,
and in its general plan is similar to the contemporary church of S. Vitale at Ravenna. St Sophia
(i.e. [Greek: Hagia Sophia], Holy Wisdom) is the glory of Byzantine art, and one of the most
beautiful buildings in the world. St Mary Diaconissa (Kalender Jamissi) is a fine specimen
of the work of the closing years of the 6th century. St Irené, founded by Constantine, and
repaired by Justinian, is in its present form mainly a restoration by Leo the Isaurian, in
the middle of the 8th century. St Mary Panachrantos (Fenari Isa Mesjidi) belongs to the reign
of Leo the Wise (886-912). The Myrelaion (Bodrum Jami) dates from the 10th century. The Pantepoptes
(Eski Imaret Jamissi), the Pantocrator (Zeirek Kilissè Jamissi), and the body of the church
of the Chora (Kahriyeh Jamissi) represent the age of the Comneni. The Pammacaristos (Fetiyeh
Jamissi), St Andrew in Krisei (Khoja Mustapha Jamissi), the narthexes and side chapel of the
Chora were, at least in their present form, erected in the times of the Palaeologi. It is difficult
to assign precise dates to SS. Peter and Mark (Khoda Mustapha Jamissi at Aivan Scrai), St Theodosia
(Gul Jamissi), St Theodore Tyrone (Kilissé Jamissi). The beautiful façade of the last is later
than the other portions of the church, which have been assigned to the 9th or 10th century.

For the thorough study of the church of St Sophia, the reader must consult the works of Fossati,
Salzenburg, Lethaby and Swainson, and Antoniadi. The present edifice was built by Justinian
the Great, under the direction of Anthemius of Tralles and his nephew Isidorus of Miletus.
It was founded in 532 and dedicated on Christmas Day 538. It replaced two earlier churches
of that name, the first of which was built by Constantius and burnt down in 404, on the occasion
of the exile of Chrysostom, while the second was erected by Theodosius II. in 415, and destroyed
by fire in the Nika riot of 532. Naturally the church has undergone repair from time to time.
The original dome fell in 558, as the result of an earthquake, and among the improvements introduced
in the course of restoration, the dome was raised 25 ft. higher than before. Repairs are recorded
under Basil I., Basil II., Andronicus III. and Cantacuzene. Since the Turkish conquest a minaret
has been erected at each of the four exterior angles of the building, and the interior has
been adapted to the requirements of Moslem worship, mainly by the destruction or concealment
of most of the mosaics which adorned the walls. In 1847-1848, during the reign of Abd-ul-Mejid,
the building was put into a state of thorough repair by the Italian architect Fossati. Happily
the sultan allowed the mosaic figures, then exposed to view, to be covered with matting before
being plastered over. They may reappear in the changes which the future will bring.

The exterior appearance of the church is certainly disappointing, but within it is, beyond
all question, one of the most beautiful creations of human art. On a large scale, and in magnificent
style, it combines the attractive features of a basilica, with all the glory of an edifice
crowned by a dome. We have here a stately hall, 235 ft. N. and S., by 250 ft. E. and W., divided
by two piers and eight columns on either hand into nave and aisles, with an apse at the eastern
end and galleries on the three other sides. Over the central portion of the nave, a square
area at the angles of which stand the four piers, and at a height of 179 ft. above the floor,
spreads a dome, 107 ft. in diameter, and 46 ft. deep, its base pierced by forty arched windows.
From the cornice of the dome stretches eastwards and westwards a semi-dome, which in its turn
rests upon three small semi-domes. The nave is thus covered completely by a domical canopy,
which, in its ascent, swells larger and larger, mounts higher and higher, as though a miniature
heaven rose overhead. For lightness, for grace, for proportion, the effect is unrivalled. The
walls of the building are reveted with marbles of various hues and patterns, arranged to form
beautiful designs, and traces of the mosaics which joined the marbles in the rich and soft
coloration of the whole interior surface of the building appear at many points. There are forty
columns on the ground floor and sixty in the galleries, often crowned with beautiful capitals,
in which the monograms of the emperor Justinian and the empress Theodora are inscribed. The
eight porphyry columns, placed in pairs in the four bays at the corners of the nave, belonged
originally to the temple of the sun at Baalbek. They were subsequently carried to Rome by Aurelian,
and at length presented to Justinian by a lady named Marcia, to be erected in this church "for
the salvation of her soul." The columns of verde antique on either side of the nave are commonly
said to have come from the temple of Diana at Ephesus, but recent authorities regard them as
specially cut for use in the church. The inner narthex of the church formed a magnificent vestibule
205 ft. long by 26 ft. wide, reveted with marble slabs and glowing with mosaics.

The citizens of Constantinople found their principal recreation in the chariot-races held in
the Hippodrome, now the At Meidan, to the west of the mosque of Sultan Ahmed. So much did the
race-course (begun by Severus but completed by Constantine) enter into the life of the people
that it has been styled "the axis of the Byzantine world." It was not only the scene of amusement,
but on account of its ample accommodation it was also the arena of much of the political life
of the city. The factions, which usually contended there in sport, often gathered there in
party strife. There emperors were acclaimed or insulted; there military triumphs were celebrated;
there criminals were executed, and there martyrs were burned at the stake. Three monuments
remain to mark the line of the Spina, around which the chariots whirled; an Egyptian obelisk
of Thothmes III., on a pedestal covered with bas-reliefs representing Theodosius I., the empress
Galla, and his sons Arcadius and Honorius, presiding at scenes in the Hippodrome; the triple
serpent column, which stood originally at Delphi, to commemorate the victory of Plataea 479
B.C.; a lofty pile of masonry, built in the form of an obelisk, and once covered with plates
of gilded bronze. Under the Turkish buildings along the western side of the arena, some arches
against which seats for the spectators were built are still visible.

The city was supplied with water mainly from two sources; from the streams immediately to the
west, and from the springs and rain impounded in reservoirs in the forest of Belgrade, to the
north-west, very much on the system followed by the Turks. The water was conveyed by aqueducts,
concealed below the surface, except when crossing a valley. Within the city the water was stored
in covered cisterns, or in large open reservoirs. The aqueduct of Justinian, the Crooked aqueduct,
in the open country, and the aqueduct of Valens that spans the valley between the 4th and 3rd
hills of the city, still carry on their beneficent work, and afford evidence of the attention
given to the water-supply of the capital during the Byzantine period. The cistern of Arcadius,
to the rear of the mosque of Sultan Selim (having, it has been estimated, a capacity of 6,571,720
cubic ft. of water), the cistern of Aspar, a short distance to the east of the Gate of Adrianople,
and the cistern of Mokius, on the 7th hill, are specimens of the open reservoirs within the
city walls. The cistern of Bin Bir Derek (cistern of Illus) with its 224 columns, each built
up with three shafts, and the cistern Yen Batan Serai (Cisterna Basilica) with its 420 columns
show what covered cisterns were, on a grand scale. The latter is still in use.[1]

Byzantine Constantinople was a great commercial centre. To equip it more fully for that purpose,
several artificial harbours were constructed along the southern shore of the city, where no
natural haven existed to accommodate ships coming up the Sea of Marmora. For the convenience
of the imperial court, there was a small harbour in the bend of the shore to the east of Chatladi
Kapu, known as the harbour of the Bucoleon. To the west of that gate, on the site of Kadriga
Limani (the Port of the Galley), was the harbour of Julian, or, as it was named later, the
harbour of Sophia (the empress of Justin II.). Traces of the harbour styled the Kontoscalion
are found at Kum Kapu. To the east of Yeni Kapu stood the harbour of Kaisarius or the Heptascalon,
while to the west of that gate was the harbour which bore the names of Eleutherius and of Theodosiur
I. A harbour named after the Golden Gate stood on the shore to the south-west of the triumphal
gate of the city.

The Modern City.--As the capital of the Ottoman empire, the aspect of the city changed in many
ways. The works of art which adorned New Rome gradually disappeared. The streets, never very
wide, became narrower, and the porticoes along their sides were almost everywhere removed.
A multitude of churches were destroyed, and most of those which survived were converted into
mosques. In race and garb and speech the population grew largely oriental. One striking alteration
in the appearance of the city was the conversion of the territory extending from the head of
the promontory to within a short distance of St Sophia into a great park, within which the
buildings constituting the seraglio of the sultans, like those forming the palace of the Byzantine
emperors, were ranged around three courts, distinguished by their respective gates--Bab-i-Humayum,
leading into the court of the Janissaries; Orta Kapu, the middle gate, giving access to the
court in which the sultan held state receptions; and Bah-i-Saadet, the Gate of Felicity, leading
to the more private apartments of the palace. From the reign of Abd-ul-Mejid, the seraglio
has been practically abandoned, first for the palace of Dolmabagché on the shore near Beshiktash,
and now for Yildiz Kiosk, on the heights above that suburb. It is, however, visited annually
by the sultan, to do homage to the relics of the prophet which are kept there. The older apartments
of the palace, such as the throne-room, the Bagdad Kiosk, and many of the objects in the imperial
treasury are of extreme interest to all lovers of oriental art. To visit the seraglio, an imperial
iradé is necessary. Another great change in the general aspect of the city has been produced
by the erection of stately mosques in the most commanding situations, where dome and minarets
and huge rectangular buildings present a combination of mass and slenderness, of rounded lines
and soaring pinnacles, which gives to Constantinople an air of unique dignity and grace, and
at the same time invests it with the glamour of the oriental world. The most remarkable mosques
are the following:--The mosque of Sultan Mahommed the Conqueror, built on the site of the church
of the Holy Apostles, in 1459, but rebuilt in 1768 owing to injuries due to an earthquake;
the mosques of Sultan Selim, of the Shah Zadeh, of Sultan Suleiman and of Rustem Pasha--all
works of the 16th century, the best period of Turkish architecture; the mosque of Sultan Bayezid
II. (1497-1505); the mosque of Sultan Ahmed I. (1610); Yeni-Validé-Jamissi (1615-1665); Nuri-Osmanieh
(1748-1755); Laleli-Jamissi (1765). The Turbehs containing the tombs of the sultans and members
of their families are often beautiful specimens of Turkish art.

In their architecture, the mosques present a striking instance of the influence of the Byzantine
style, especially as it appears in St Sophia. The architects of the mosques have made a skilful
use of the semi-dome in the support of the main dome of the building, and in the consequent
extension of the arched canopy that spreads over the worshipper. In some cases the main dome
rests upon four semi-domes. At the same time, when viewed from the exterior, the main dome
rises large, bold and commanding, with nothing of the squat appearance that mars the dome of
St Sophia, with nothing of the petty prettiness of the little domes perched on the drums of
the later Byzantine churches. The great mosques express the spirit of the days when the Ottoman
empire was still mighty and ambitious. Occasionally, as in the case of Laleli Jamissi, where
the dome rests upon an octagon inscribed in a square, the influence of SS. Sergius and Bacchus
is perceptible.

For all intents and purposes, Constantinople is now the collection of towns and villages situated
on both sides of the Golden Horn and along the shores of the Bosporus, including Scutari and
Kadikeui. But the principal parts of this great agglomeration are Stamboul (from Gr. [Greek:
eis tên polin], "into the city"), the name specially applied to the portion of the city upon
the promontory, Galata and Pera. Galata has a long history, which becomes of general interest
after 1265, when it was assigned to the Genoese merchants in the city by Michael Palaeologus,
in return for the friendly services of Genoa in the overthrow of the Latin empire of Constantinople.
In the course of time, notwithstanding stipulations to the contrary, the town was strongly
fortified and proved a troublesome neighbour During the siege of 1453 the inhabitants maintained
on the whole a neutral attitude, but on the fall of the capital they surrendered to the Turkish
conqueror, who granted them liberal terms. The walls have for the most part been removed. The
noble tower, however, which formed the citadel of the colony, still remains, and is a striking
feature in the scenery of Constantinople. There are also churches and houses dating from Genoese
days. Galata is the chief business centre of the city, the seat of banks, post-offices, steamship
offices, &c. Pera is the principal residential quarter of the European communities settled
in Constantinople, where the foreign embassies congregate, and the fashionable shops and hotels
are found.

Since the middle of the 19th century the city has yielded more and more to western influences,
and is fast losing its oriental character. The sultan's palaces, and the residences of all
classes of the community, adopt with more or less success a European style of building. The
streets have been widened and named. They are in many instances better paved, and are lighted
at night. The houses are numbered. Cabs and tramways have been introduced. Public gardens have
been opened. For some distance outside the Galata bridge, both shores of the Golden Horn have
been provided with a quay at which large steamers can moor to discharge or embark their passengers
and cargo. The Galata quay, completed in 1889, is 756 metres long and 20 metres wide; the Stamboul
quay, completed in 1900, is 378 metres in length. The harbour, quays and facilities for handling
merchandise, which have been established at the head of the Anatolian railway, at Haidar Pasha,
under German auspices, would be a credit to any city. It is true that most of these improvements
are due to foreign enterprise and serve largely foreign interests; still they have also benefited
the city, and added much to the convenience and comfort of local life. There has been likewise
progress in other than material respects. The growth of the imperial museum of antiquities,
under the direction of Hamdy Bey, within the grounds of the Seraglio, has been remarkable;
and while the collection of the sarcophagi discovered at Sidon constitutes the chief treasure
of the museum, the institution has become a rich storehouse of many other valuable relics of
the past. The existence of a school of art, where painting and architecture are taught, is
also a sign of new times. A school of handicrafts flourishes on the Sphendoné of the Hippodrome.
The fine medical school between Scutari and Haidar Pasha, the Hamidieh hospital for children,
and the asylum for the poor, tell of the advance of science and humanity in the place.

Considerable attention is now given to the subject of education throughout the empire, a result
due in great measure to the influence of the American and French schools and colleges established
in the provinces and at the capital. More than thirty foreign educational institutions flourish
in Constantinople itself, and they are largely attended by the youth belonging to the native
communities of the country. The Greek population is provided with excellent schools and gymnasia,
and the Armenians also maintain schools of a high grade. The Turkish government itself became,
moreover, impressed with the importance of education, and as a consequence the whole system
of public instruction for the Moslem portion of the population was, during the reign of Sultan
Abd-ul-Hamid II., more widely extended and improved. Beside the schools of the old type attached
to the mosques, schools of a better class were established under the direct control of the
minister of education, which, although open to improvement, certainly aimed at a higher standard
than that reached in former days. The progress of education became noticeable even among Moslem
girls. The social and political influence of this intellectual improvement among the various
communities of the empire soon made itself felt, and had much to do with the startling success
of the constitutional revolution carried out, under the direction of the Committee of Union
and Progress, in the autumn of 1908.

Climate.--The climate of the city is healthy, but relaxing. It is damp and liable to sudden
and great changes of temperature. The winds from the north and those from the south are at
constant feud, and blow cold or hot in the most capricious manner, often in the course of the
same day. "There are two climates at Constantinople, that of the north and that of the south
wind." The winters may be severe, but when mild they are wet and not invigorating. In summer
the heat is tempered by the prevalence of a north-east wind that blows down the channel of
the Bosporus. Observations at Constantinople and at Scutari give the following results, for
a period of twenty years.

  +------------------------+-----------------+--------------+
  |                        | Constantinople. |   Scutari.   |
  +------------------------+-----------------+--------------+
  |  Mean temperature      |    57° 7'       |   58° 1'     |
  |  Maximum               |    99° 1'       |  103° 6'     |
  |  Minimum               |    17° 2'       |   13° 0'     |
  |  Rain                  |    28.3 in.     |   29.29 in.  |
  |  Number of rainy days  |    112          |   128.6      |
  +------------------------+-----------------+--------------+

The sanitation of the city has been improved, although much remains to be done in that respect.
No great epidemic has visited the city since the outbreak of cholera in 1866. Typhoid and pulmonary
diseases are common.

Population.--The number of the population of the city is an uncertain figure, as no accurate
statistics can be obtained. It is generally estimated between 800,000 and 1,000,000. The inhabitants
present a remarkable conglomeration of different races, various nationalities, divers languages,
distinctive costumes and conflicting faiths, giving, it is true, a singular interest to what
may be termed the human scenery of the city, but rendering impossible any close social cohesion,
or the development of a common civic life. Constantinople has well been described as "a city
not of one nation but of many, and hardly more of one than of another." The following figures
are given as an approximate estimate of the size of the communities which compose the population.

  Moslems                     384,910
  Greeks                      152,741
  Greek Latins                  1,082
  Armenians                   149,590
  Roman Catholics (native)      6,442
  Protestants (native)            819
  Bulgarians                    4,377
  Jews                         44,361
  Foreigners                  129,243
                             --------
                              873,565

Water-Supply.--Under the rule of the sultans, the water-supply of the city has been greatly
extended. The reservoirs in the forest of Belgrade have been enlarged and increased in number,
and new aqueducts have been added to those erected by the Byzantine emperors. The use of the
old cisterns within the walls has been almost entirely abandoned, and the water is led to basins
in vaulted chambers (Taxim), from which it is distributed by underground conduits to the fountains
situated in the different quarters of the city. From these fountains the water is taken to
a house by water-carriers, or, in the case of the humbler classes, by members of the household
itself.

For the supply of Pera, Galata and Beshiktash, Sultan Mahmud I. constructed, in 1732, four
bends in the forest of Belgrade, N.N.W. and N.E. of the village of Bagchekeui, and the fine
aqueduct which spans the head of the valley of Buyukderé. Since 1885, a French company, La
Compagnie des Eaux, has rendered a great service by bringing water to Stamboul, Pera, and the
villages on the European side of the Bosporus, from Lake Dercos, which lies close to the shore
of the Black Sea some 29 m. distant from the city. The Dercos water is laid on in many houses.
Since 1893 a German company has supplied Scutari and Kadikeui with water from the valley of
the Sweet Waters of Asia.

Trade.--The trade of the city has been unfavourably affected by the political events which
have converted former provinces of the Turkish empire into autonomous states, by the development
of business at other ports of the empire, owing to the opening up of the interior country through
the construction of railroads, and by the difficulties which the government, with the view
of preventing political agitation, has put in the way of easy intercourse by natives between
the capital and the provinces. Most of the commerce of the city is in hands of foreigners and
of Armenian and Greek merchants. Turks have little if anything to do with trade on a large
scale. "The capital," says a writer in the Konstantinopler Handelsblatt of November 1904, "produces
very little for export, and its hinterland is small, extending on the European side only a
few kilometres--the outlet for the fertile Eastern Rumelia is Dedeagach--and on the Asiatic
side embracing the Sea of Marmora and the Anatolian railway district. Even part of this will
be lost to Constantinople when the Anatolian railway is connected with the port of Mersina
and with the Kassaba-Smyrna railway. Some 750 tons of the sweetmeat known as 'Turkish delight'
are annually exported to the United Kingdom, America and Rumelia; embroideries, &c., are sold
in fair quantities to tourists. Otherwise the chief articles of Constantinople's export trade
consist of refuse and waste materials, sheep's wool (called Kassab bashí) and skins from the
slaughter-houses (in 1903 about 3,000,000 skins were exported, mostly to America), horns, hoofs,
goat and horse hair, guts, bones, rags, bran, old iron, &c., and finally dogs' excrements,
called in trade 'pure,' a Constantinople speciality, which is used in preparing leather for
ladies' gloves. From the hinterland comes mostly raw produce such as grain, drugs, wool, silk,
ores and also carpets. The chief article is grain."

The average value of the goods passing through the port of Constantinople at the opening of
the 20th century was estimated at about £T 11,000,000. From the imperfect statistics available,
the following tables of the class of goods imported and exported, and their respective values,
were drawn up in 1901 by the late Mr Whittaker, The Times correspondent.

                   Imports.

  Manufactured goods (cotton,
     woollen, silk, &c.)       £T[2] 3,500,000
  Haberdashery, ironmongery             90,000
  Sugar                                500,000
  Petroleum                            400,000
  Flour                                400,000
  Coffee                               300,000
  Rice                                 250,000
  Cattle                               100,000
  Various                              850,000
                                     ---------
                          Total   £T 7,000,000

                   Exports.

  Cereals                         £T 1,000,000
  Mohair                               800,000
  Carpets                              700,000
  Silk and cocoons                     500,000
  Opium                                400,000
  Gum tragacanth                       150,000
  Wool                                 100,000
  Hides                                100,000
  Various                              250,000
                                     ---------
                          Total   £T 4,100,000

About 40% of the import trade of Constantinople is British. According to the trade report of
the British consulate, the share of the United Kingdom in the value of £7,142,000 on the total
imports to Constantinople during the year 1900-1901 was £1,811,000; while the share of the
United Kingdom in the value of £2,669,000 on the total exports during the same year was £998,000.
But it is worthy of note that while British commerce still led the way in Turkey, the trade
of some other countries with Turkey, especially that of Germany, was increasing more rapidly.
Comparing the average of the period 1896-1900 with the total for 1904, British trade showed
an increase of 33%, Austro-Hungarian of nearly 60%, Germany of 130%, Italian of 98%, French
of 8%, and Belgian of nearly 33%. The shipping visiting the port of Constantinople during the
year 1905, excluding sailing and small coasting vessels, was 9796, representing a total of
14,785,080 tons. The percentage of steamers under the British flag was 37.1; of tonnage, 45.9.

Administration.--For the preservation of order and security, the city is divided into four
divisions (Belad-i-Selassi), viz. Stamboul, Pera-Galata, Beshiktash and Scutari. The minister
of police is at the head of the administration of the affairs of these divisions, and is ex-officio
governor of Stamboul. The governors of the other divisions are subordinate to him, but are
appointed by the sultan. Each governor has a special staff of police and gendarmery and his
own police-court. In each division is a military commander, having a part of the garrison of
the city under his orders, but subordinate to the commander-in-chief of the troops guarding
the capital.

The municipal government of the four divisions of the city is in the hands of a prefect, appointed
by the sultan, and subordinate to the minister of the interior. He is officially styled the
prefect of Stamboul, and is assisted by a council of twenty-four members, appointed by the
sultan or the minister of the interior. All matters concerning the streets, the markets, the
bazaars, the street-porters (hamals), public weighers, baths and hospitals come under his jurisdiction.
He is charged also with the collection of the city dues, and the taxes on property. The city
is furthermore divided into ten municipal circles as follows. In Stamboul: (1) Sultan Bayezid,
(2) Sultan Mehemet, (3) Djerah Pasha (Psamatia); on the European side of the Bosporus and the
northern side of the Golden Horn: (4) Beshiktash, (5) Yenikeui, (6) Pera, (7) Buyukderé; on
the Asiatic side of the Bosporus: (8) Anadol Hissar, (9) Scutari, (10) Kadikeui. Each circle
is subdivided into several wards (mahalleh). "The outlying parts of the city are divided into
six districts (Cazas), namely, Princes' Islands, Guebzeh, Beicos, Kartal, Kuchuk-Chekmedjé
and Shilé, each having its governor (kaimakam), who is usually chosen by the palace. These
districts are dependencies of the ministry of the interior, and their municipal affairs are
directed by agents of the prefecture."

In virtue of old treaties, known as the Capitulations (q.v.), foreigners enjoy to a large extent
the rights of exterritoriality. In disputes with one another, they are judged before their
own courts of justice. In litigation between a foreigner and a native, the case is taken to
a native court, but a representative of the foreigner's consulate attends the proceedings.
Foreigners have a right to establish their own schools and hospitals, to hold their special
religious services, and even to maintain their respective national post-offices. No Turkish
policeman may enter the premises of a foreigner without the sanction of the consular authorities
to whose jurisdiction the latter belongs. A certain measure of self-government is likewise
granted to the native Christian communities under their ecclesiastical chiefs.

   BIBLIOGRAPHY.--On Constantinople generally, besides the regular
   guide-books and works already mentioned, see P. Gyllius, De
   topographia Constantinopoleos, De Bosporo Thracio (1632); Du Cange,
   Constantinopolis Christiana (1680); J. von Hammer,
   Constantinopolis und der Bosporos (1822); Mordtmann, Esquisse
   topographique de Constantinople (1892); E. A. Grosvenor,
   Constantinople (1895); van Millingen, Byzantine Constantinople
   (1899); Paspates, [Greek: Byzantinai Meletai] (1877); Scarlatos
   Byzantios, [Greek: Hê Kônstantinou polis] (1851); E. Pears, Fall of
   Constantinople (1885), The Destruction of the Greek Empire (1903);
   Gibbon, The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire; Salzenberg,
   Altchristliche Baudenkmale von Konstantinopel; Lethaby and
   Swainson, The Church of Sancta Sophia; Pulgher, Les Anciennes
   Églises byzantines de Constantinople; Labarte, Le Palais impérial
   de Constantinople et ses abords.     (A. van M.)

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] For full information on the subject of the ancient water-supply
    see Count A. F. Andréossy, Constantinople et le Bosphore;
    Tchikatchev, Le Bosphore et Constantinople (2nd ed., Paris, 1865);
    Forchheimer and Strzygowski, Die byzantinischen Wasserbehälter;
    also article AQUEDUCT.

  [2] A Turkish lira = 18 shillings (English).

CONSTANTINOPLE, COUNCILS OF. Of the numerous ecclesiastical councils held at Constantinople
the most important are the following:

1. The second ecumenical council, 381, which was in reality only a synod of bishops from Thrace,
Asia and Syria, convened by Theodosius with a view to uniting the church upon the basis of
the Orthodox faith. No Western bishop was present, nor any Roman legate; from Egypt came only
a few bishops, and these tardily. The first president was Meletius of Antioch, whom Rome regarded
as schismatic. Yet, despite its sectional character, the council came in time to be regarded
as ecumenical alike in the West and in the East.

The council reaffirmed the Nicene faith and denounced all opposing doctrines. The so-called
"Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed," which has almost universally been ascribed to this council,
is certainly not the Nicene creed nor even a recension of it, but most likely a Jerusalem baptismal
formula revised by the interpolation of a few Nicene test-words. More recently its claim to
be called "Constantinopolitan" has been challenged. It is not found in the earliest records
of the acts of the council, nor was it referred to by the council of Ephesus (431), nor by
the "Robber Synod" (449), although these both confirmed the Nicene faith. It also lacks the
definiteness one would expect in a creed composed by an anti-Arian, anti-Pneumatomachian council.
Harnack (Herzog-Hauck, Realencyklopädie, 3rd ed., s.v. "Konstantinopolit. Symbol.") conjectures
that it was ascribed to the council of Constantinople just before the council of Chalcedon
in order to prove the orthodoxy of the Fathers of the second ecumenical council. At all events,
it became the creed of the universal church, and has been retained without change. Save for
the addition of filioque.

Of the seven reputed canons of the council only the first four are unquestionably genuine.
The fifth and the sixth probably belong to a synod of 382, and the seventh is properly not
a canon. The most important enactments of the council were the granting of metropolitan rights
to the bishops of Alexandria, Antioch, Thrace, Pontus and Ephesus; and according to Constantinople
the place of honour after Rome, against which Rome protested. Not until 150 years later, and
then only under compulsion of the emperor Justinian, did Rome acknowledge the ecumenicity of
the council, and that merely as regarded its doctrinal decrees.

   See Mansi iii. pp. 521-599; Hardouin i. pp. 807-826; Hefele, 2nd ed.,
   ii. pp. 1 sqq. (English translation, ii. pp. 340 sqq.); Hort, Two
   Dissertations (Cambridge, 1876); and the article Creeds.

2. The council of 553, the fifth ecumenical, grew out of the controversy of the "Three Chapters,"
an adequate account of which, up to the time of the council, may be found in the articles JUSTINIAN
and VIGILIUS. The council convened, in response to the imperial summons, on the 4th of May
553. Of the 165 bishops who subscribed the acts all but the five or six from Egypt were Oriental;
the pope, Vigilius, refused to attend (he had made his escape from Constantinople, and from
his retreat in Chalcedon sent forth a vain protest against the council). The synod was utterly
subservient to the emperor. The "Three Chapters" were condemned, and their authors, long dead,
anathematized, without, however, derogating from the authority of the council of Chalcedon,
which had given them a clean bill of orthodoxy. Vigilius was excommunicated, and his name erased
from the diptychs. The Orthodox faith was set forth in fourteen anathemas. Opinion is divided
as to whether Origen was condemned. His name occurs in the eleventh anathema, but some consider
it an interpolation; Hefele defends the genuineness of the text, but finds no evidence for
a special session against Origen, as some have conjectured.

The council was confirmed by the emperor, and was generally received in the East. Vigilius
was soon coerced into submission, but the West repudiated his pusillanimous surrender, and
rejected the council. A schism ensued which lasted half a century and was not fully healed
until the synod of Aquileia, about 700. But the ecumenicity of the council was generally acknowledged
by 680.

   See Mansi ix. pp. 24-106, 149-658, 712-730; Hardouin iii. pp. 1-328,
   331, 414, 524; Hefele, 2nd ed., ii. pp. 798-924 (English translation,
   iv. pp. 229-365).

3. The sixth ecumenical council, 680-681, which was convened by the emperor Constantine Pogonatus
to terminate the Monothelitic controversy (see Monothelites). All the patriarchates were represented,
Constantinople and Antioch by their bishops in person, the others by legates. The number of
bishops present varied from 150 to 300. The council approved the first five ecumenical councils
and reaffirmed the Nicene and "Niceno-Constantinopolitan" creeds. Monothelitism was unequivocally
condemned; Christ was declared to have had "two natural wills and two natural operations, without
division, conversion, separation or confusion." Prominent Monothelites, living or dead, were
anathematized, in particular Sergius and his successors in the see of Constantinople, the former
pope, Honorius, and Macarius, the patriarch of Antioch. An imperial decree confirmed the council,
and commanded the acceptance of its doctrines under pain of severe punishment. The Monothelites
took fright and fled to Syria, where they gradually formed the sect of the Maronites (q.v.).

The anathematizing of Honorius as heterodox has occasioned no slight embarrassment to the supporters
of the doctrine of papal infallibility. It is not within the scope of this article to pass
judgment upon the various proposed solutions of the difficulty, e.g. that Honorius was not
really a Monothelite; that in acknowledging one will he was not speaking ex cathedra; that,
at the time of condemning him, the council was no longer ecumenical; &c. One thing is certain,
however, he was anathematized; and the notion of interpolation in the acts of the council (Baronius)
may be dismissed as groundless.

   See Mansi xi. pp. 190-922; Hardouin iii. pp. 1043-1644; Hefele, 2nd
   ed. iii. pp. 121-313.

4. The "Quinisext Synod" (692), so-called because it was regarded by the Greeks as supplementing
the fifth and sixth ecumenical councils, was held in the dome of the Imperial Palace ("In Trullo,"
whence the synod is called also "Trullan"). Its work was purely legislative and its decisions
were set forth in 102 canons. The sole authoritative standards of discipline were declared
to be the "eighty-five apostolic canons," the canons of the first four ecumenical councils
and of the synods of Ancyra, Neo-Caesarea, Antioch, Changra, Laodicea, Sardica and Carthage,
and the canonical writings of some twelve Fathers,--all canons, synods and Fathers, Eastern
with one exception, viz. Cyprian and the synod of Carthage; the bishops of Rome and the occidental
synods were utterly ignored.

The canons of the second and fourth ecumenical councils respecting the rank of Constantinople
were confirmed; the rank of a see was declared to follow the civil rank of its city; unenthroned
bishops were guaranteed against diminution of their rights; metropolitans were forbidden to
alienate the property of vacant suffragan sees.

The provisions respecting clerical marriage were avowedly more lenient than the Roman practice.
Ordination was denied to any one who after baptism had contracted a second marriage, kept a
concubine, or married a widow or a woman of ill-repute. Lectors and cantors might marry after
ordination; presbyters, deacons and sub-deacons, if already married, should retain their wives;
a bishop, however, while not dissolving his marriage, should keep his wife at a distance, making
suitable provision for her. An illegally married cleric could not perform sacerdotal functions.
Monks and nuns were to be carefully separated, and were not to leave their houses without permission.

It was forbidden to celebrate baptism or the eucharist in private oratories; neither might
laymen give the elements to themselves, nor approach the altar, nor teach. Offerings for the
dead were authorized, and the mixed chalice made obligatory. Contrary to the occidental custom,
fasting on Saturday was forbidden. The mutilation of the Scriptures and the desecration of
sacred places were severely condemned; likewise the use of the lamb as the symbol for Christ
(a favourite symbol in the West).

The synod legislated also concerning marriage, bigamy, adultery, rape, abortion, seductive
arts and obscenity. The theatre, the circus and gambling were unsparingly denounced, and soothsayers
and jugglers, pagan festivals and customs, and pagan oaths were placed under the ban.

The council was confirmed by the emperor and accepted in the East; but the pope protested against
various canons, chiefly those respecting the rank of Constantinople, clerical marriage, the
Saturday fast, and the use of the symbol of lamb; and refused, despite express imperial command
and threat, to accept the "Pseudo-Sexta." So that while the synod adopted a body of legislation
that has continued to be authoritative for the Eastern Church, it did so at the cost of aggravating
the irritation of the West, and by so much hastening the inevitable rupture of the church.

   See Mansi xi. pp. 921-1024; Hardouin iii. pp. 1645-1716; Hefele, 2nd
   ed., iii. pp. 328-348.

5. The iconoclastic synods of 754 and 815, both of which promulgated harsh decrees against
images and neither of which is recognized by the Latin Church, and the synod of 842, which
repudiated the synod of 815, approved the second council of Nicaea, and restored the images,
are all adequately treated in the article Iconoclasts.

   See Mansi xii. pp. 575 sqq., xiii. pp. 210 sqq., xiv. pp. 111 sqq.,
   787 sqq.; Hardouin iv. pp. 330 sqq., 1045 sqq., 1457 sqq.; Hefele,
   2nd ed. iv. pp. 1 sqq., 104 sqq.

6. The synods of 869 and 879, of which the former, regarded by the Latin Church as the eighth
ecumenical council, condemned Photius as an usurper and restored Ignatius to the see of Constantinople;
the latter, which the Greeks consider to have been the true eighth ecumenical council, held
after the death of Ignatius and the reconciliation of Photius with the emperor, repudiated
the synod of 869, restored Photius, and condemned all who would not recognize him. (For further
details of these two synods see Photius.)

   See Mansi xv. pp. 143-476 et passim, xvi. pp. 1-550, xvii. pp.
   66-186, 365-530; Hardouin v. pp. 119-390, 749-1210, et passim, vi.
   pp. 19-87, 209-334; Hefele, 2nd ed., iv. pp. 228 sqq., 333 sqq., 435
   sqq.; Hergenröther, Photius (Regensburg, 1867-1869). (T. F. C.)

CONSTANTINUS, pope from 708 to 715, was a Syrian by birth and was consecrated pope in March
708. He was eager to assert the supremacy of the papal see; at the command of the emperor Justinian
II. he visited Constantinople; and he died on the 9th of April 715.

CONSTANTIUS, FLAVIUS VALERIUS, commonly called CHLORUS (the Pale), an epithet due to the Byzantine
historians, Roman emperor and father of Constantine the Great, was born about A.D. 250. He
was of Illyrian origin; a fictitious connexion with the family of Claudius Gothicus was attributed
to him by Constantine. Having distinguished himself by his military ability and his able and
gentle rule of Dalmatia, he was, on the 1st of March 293, adopted and appointed Caesar by Maximian,
whose step-daughter, Flavia Maximiana Theodora, he had married in 289 after renouncing his
wife Helena (the mother of Constantine). In the distribution of the provinces Gaul and Britain
were allotted to Constantius. In Britain Carausius and subsequently Allectus had declared themselves
independent, and it was not till 296 that, by the defeat of Allectus, it was re-united with
the empire. In 298 Constantius overthrew the Alamanni in the territory of the Lingones (Langres)
and strengthened the Rhine frontier. During the persecution of the Christians in 303 he behaved
with great humanity. He obtained the title of Augustus on the 1st of May 305, and died the
following year shortly before the 25th of July at Eboracum (York) during an expedition against
the Picts and Scots.

   See Aurelius Victor, De Caesaribus, 39; Eutropius ix. 14-23;
   Zosimus ii. 7.

CONSTANTZA (Constanta), formerly known as Kustendji or Kustendje, a seaport on the Black Sea,
and capital of the department of Constantza, Rumania; 140 m. E. by S. from Bucharest by rail.
Pop. (1900) 12,725. When the Dobrudja was ceded to Rumania in 1878, Constantza was partly rebuilt.
In its clean and broad streets there are many synagogues, mosques and churches, for half the
inhabitants are Roman Catholics, Moslems, Armenians or Jews; the remainder being Orthodox Rumans
and Greeks. In the vicinity there are mineral springs, and the sea-bathing also attracts many
visitors in summer. The chief local industries are tanning and the manufacture of petroleum
drums. The opening, in 1895, of the railway to Bucharest, which crosses the Danube by a bridge
at Cerna Voda, brought Constantza a considerable transit trade in grain and petroleum, which
are largely exported; coal and coke head the list of imports, followed by machinery, iron goods,
and cotton and woollen fabrics. The harbour, protected by breakwaters, with a lighthouse at
the entrance, is well defended from the north winds, but those from the south, south-east,
and south-west prove sometimes highly dangerous. In 1902 it afforded 10 alongside berths for
shipping. It had a depth of 22 ft. in the old or inner basin, and of 26 ft. in the new or outer
basin, beside the quays. The railway runs along the quays. A weekly service between Constantza
and Constantinople is conducted by state-owned steamers, including the fast mail and passenger
boats in connexion with the Ostend and Orient expresses. In 1902, 576 vessels entered at Constantza,
with a net registered tonnage of 641,737. The Black Sea squadron of the Rumanian fleet is stationed
here.

Constantza is the Constantiana which was founded in honour of Constantia, sister of Constantine
the Great (A.D. 274-337). It lies at the seaward end of the Great Wall of Trajan, and has evidently
been surrounded by fortifications of its own. In spite of damage done by railway contractors
(see Henry C. Barkley, Between the Danube and the Black Sea, 1876) there are considerable remains
of ancient masonry--walls, pillars, &c. A number of inscriptions found in the town and its
vicinity show that close by was Tomi, where the Roman poet Ovid (43 B.C.-A.D. 17) spent his
last eight years in exile. A statue of Ovid stands in the main square of Constantza.

   In regard to the Constantza inscriptions in general, see Allard, La
   Bulgarie orientale (Paris, 1866); Desjardins in Ann. dell' istit.
   di corr. arch. (1868); and a paper on Weickum's collection in
   Sitzungsbericht of the Munich Academy (1875).

CONSTELLATION (from the Lat. constellatus, studded with stars; con, with, and stella, a star),
in astronomy, the name given to certain groupings of stars. The partition of the stellar expanse
into areas characterized by specified stars can be traced back to a very remote antiquity.
It is believed that the ultimate origin of the constellation figures and names is to be found
in the corresponding systems in vogue among the primitive civilizations of the Euphrates valley--the
Sumerians, Accadians and Babylonians; that these were carried westward into ancient Greece
by the Phoenicians, and to the lands of Asia Minor by the Hittites, and that Hellenic culture
in its turn introduced them into Arabia, Persia and India. From the earliest times the star-groups
known as constellations, the smaller groups (parts of constellations) known as asterisms, and
also individual stars, have received names connoting some meteorological phenomena, or symbolizing
religious or mythological beliefs. At one time it was held that the constellation names and
myths were of Greek origin; this view has now been disproved, and an examination of the Hellenic
myths associated with the stars and star-groups in the light of the records revealed by the
decipherment of Euphratean cuneiforms leads to the conclusion that in many, if not all, cases
the Greek myth has a Euphratean parallel, and so renders it probable that the Greek constellation
system and the cognate legends are primarily of Semitic or even pre-Semitic origin.

The origin and development of the grouping of the stars into constellations is more a matter
of archaeological than of astronomical interest. It demands a careful study of the myths and
religious thought of primitive peoples; and the tracing of the names from one language to another
belongs to comparative philology.

The Sumerians and Accadians, the non-Semitic inhabitants of the Euphrates valley prior to the
Babylonians, described the stars collectively as a "heavenly flock"; the sun was the "old sheep";
the seven planets were the "old-sheep stars"; the whole of the stars had certain "shepherds,"
and Sibzianna (which, according to Sayce and Bosanquet, is the modern Arcturus, the brightest
star in the northern sky) was the "star of the shepherds of the heavenly herds." The Accadians
bequeathed their system to the Babylonians, and cuneiform tablets and cylinders, boundary stones,
and Euphratean art generally, point to the existence of a well-defined system of star names
in their early history. From a detailed study of such records, in their nature of rather speculative
value, R. Brown, junr. (Primitive Constellations, 1899) has compiled a Euphratean planisphere,
which he regards as the mother of all others. The tablets examined range in date from 3000-500
B.C., and hence the system must be anterior to the earlier date. Of great importance is the
Creation Legend, a cuneiform compiled from older records during the reign of Assur-bani-pal,
c. 650 B.C., in which there occurs a passage interpretable as pointing to the acceptance of
36 constellations: 12 northern, 12 zodiacal and 12 southern. These constellations were arranged
in three concentric annuli, the northern ones in an inner annulus subdivided into 60 degrees,
the zodiacal ones into a medial annulus of 120 degrees, and the southern ones into an outer
annulus of 240 degrees. Brown has suggested a correlation of the Euphratean names with those
of the Greeks and moderns. His results may be exhibited in the following form:--the central
line gives the modern equivalents of the names in the Euphratean zodiac; the upper line the
modern equivalents of the northern paranatellons; and the lower line those of the southern
paranatellons. The zodiacal constellations have an interest peculiarly their own; placed in
or about the plane of the ecliptic, their rising and setting with the sun was observed with
relation to weather changes and the more general subject of chronology, the twelve subdivisions
of the year being correlated with the twelve divisions of the ecliptic (see Zodiac).

  +----------------+---------------+--------------------+
  |    Northern    |    Zodiacal   |      Southern      |
  +----------------+---------------+--------------------+
  |  Cassiopeia    |  Aries        |  Eridanus          |
  |  Auriga        |  Taurus       |  Orion             |
  |  Cepheus       |  Gemini       |  Canis major       |
  |  Ursa minor    |  Cancer       |  Argo              |
  |  Ursa major    |  Leo          |  Hydra Crater      |
  |  Boötes        |  Virgo        |  Corvus            |
  |  Serpentarius  |  Libra        |  Centaurus         |
  |  Hercules      |  Scorpio      |  Lupus             |
  |  Lyra          |  Sagittarius  |  Ara               |
  |  Aquila        |  Capricornus  |  ?                 |
  |  Pegasus       |  Aquarius     |  Piscis australis  |
  |  Andromeda     |  Pisces       |  Cetus             |
  +----------------+---------------+--------------------+

The Phoenicians--a race dominated by the spirit of commercial enterprise--appear to have studied
the stars more especially with respect to their service to navigators; according to Homer "the
stars were sent by Zeus as portents for mariners." But all their truly astronomical writings
are lost, and only by a somewhat speculative piecing together of scattered evidences can an
estimate of their knowledge be formed. The inter-relations of the Phoenicians with the early
Hellenes were frequent and far-reaching, and in the Greek presentation of the legends concerning
constellations a distinct Phoenician, and in turn Euphratean, element appears. One of the earliest
examples of Greek literature extant, the Theogonia of Hesiod (c. 800 B.C.), appears to be a
curious blending of Hellenic and Phoenician thought. Although not an astronomical work, several
constellation subjects are introduced. In the same author's Works and Days, a treatise which
is a sort of shepherd's calendar, there are distinct references to the Pleiades, Hyades, Orion,
Sirius and Arcturus. It cannot be argued, however, that these were the only stars and constellations
named in his time; the omission proves nothing. The same is true of the Homeric epics wherein
the Pleiades, Hyades, Ursa major, Orion and Boötes are mentioned, and also of the stars and
constellations mentioned in Job. Further support is given to the view that, in the main, the
constellations were transmitted to the Greeks by the Phoenicians from Euphratean sources in
the fact that Thales, the earliest Greek astronomer of any note, was of Phoenician descent.
According to Callimachus he taught the Greeks to steer by Ursa minor instead of Ursa major;
and other astronomical observations are assigned to him. But his writings are lost, as is also
the case with those of Phocus the Samian, and the history of astronomy by Eudemus, the pupil
of Aristotle; hence the paucity of our knowledge of Thales's astronomical learning.

From the 6th century B.C. onwards, legends concerning the constellation subjects were frequently
treated by the historians and poets. Aglaosthenes or Agaosthenes, an early writer, knew Ursa
minor as [Greek: Kynosoura], Cynosura, and recorded the translation of Aquila; Epimenides the
Cretan (c. 600 B.C.) recorded the translation of Capricornus and the star Capella; Pherecydes
of Athens (c. 500-450 B.C.) recorded the legend of Orion, and stated the astronomical fact
that when Orion sets Scorpio rises; Aeschylus (525-456 B.C.) and Hellanicus of Mytilene (c.
496-411 B.C.) narrate the legend of the seven Pleiades--the daughters of Atlas; and the latter
states that the Hyades are named either from their orientation, which resembles [upsilon] (upsilon),
"or because at their rising or setting Zeus rains"; and Hecataeus of Miletus (c. 470 B.C.)
treated the legend of the Hydra.

In the 5th century B.C. the Athenian astronomer Euctemon, according to Geminus of Rhodes, compiled
a weather calendar in which Aquarius, Aquila, Canis major, Corona, Cygnus, Delphinus, Lyra,
Orion, Pegasus, Sagitta and the asterisms Hyades and Pleiades are mentioned, always, however,
in relation to weather changes. The earliest Greek work which purported to treat the constellations
qua constellations, of which we have certain knowledge, is the [Greek: Phainomena] of Eudoxus
of Cnidus (c. 403-350 B.C.). The original is lost, but a versification by Aratus (c. 270 B.C.),
a poet at the court of Antigonus Gonatas, king of Macedonia, and an [Greek: Exêgêsis] or commentary
by Hipparchus, are extant. In the [Greek: Phainomena] of Aratus 44 constellations are enumerated,
viz. In this enumeration Serpens is included in Serpentarius and Lupus in Centaurus; these
two constellations were separated by Hipparchus and, later, by Ptolemy. On the other hand,
Aratus kept the Pleiades distinct from Taurus, but Hipparchus reduced these stars to an asterism.
Aratus was no astronomer, while Hipparchus was; and from the fact that the latter adopted,
with but trifling exceptions, the constellation system portrayed by Aratus, it may be concluded
that the system was already familiar in Greek thought. And three hundred years after Hipparchus,
the Alexandrian astronomer Ptolemy adopted a very similar scheme in his uranometria, which
appears in the seventh and eighth books of his Almagest, the catalogue being styled the [Greek:
Ekthesis kanonikê] or "accepted version."

The Almagest has a dual interest: first, being the work of one primarily a commentator, it
presents a crystallized epitome of all earlier knowledge; and secondly, it has served as a
basis of subsequent star-catalogues.[1] The Ptolemaic catalogue embraces only those stars which
were visible at Rhodes in the time of Hipparchus (c. 150 B.C.), the results being corrected
for precession "by increasing the longitudes by 2° 40', and leaving the latitudes undisturbed"
(Francis Baily, Mem. R.A.S., 1843). The names and orientation of the constellations therein
adopted are, with but few exceptions, identical with those used at the present day; and as
it cannot be doubted that Ptolemy made only very few modifications in the system of Hipparchus,
the names were adopted at least three centuries before the Almagest was compiled. The names
in which Ptolemy differs from modern usage are:--Hercules ([Greek: en gonasin]), Cygnus ([Greek:
Hornis]), Eridanus ([Greek: Potamos]), Lupus ([Greek: Thêrion]), Pegasus ([Greek: Hippos]),
Equuleus ([Greek: Hippou protomê]), Canis minor ([Greek: Prokyôn]), and Libra ([Greek: Chêlai],
although [Greek: zygos] is used for the same constellation in other parts of the Almagest).
The following table gives the names of the constellations as they occur in (1) modern catalogues;
(2) Ptolemy (A.D. 150); (3) Ulugh Beg (1437); (4) Tycho Brahe (1628); the last column gives
the English equivalent of the modern name.

The reverence and authority which was accorded the famous compilation of the Alexandrian astronomer
is well evidenced by the catalogue of the Tatar Ulugh Beg, the Arabian names there adopted
being equivalent to the Ptolemaic names in nearly every case; this is also shown in the Latin
translations given below. Tycho Brahe, when compiling his catalogue of stars, was unable to
observe Lupus, Ara, Corona australis and Piscis australis, on account of the latitude of Uranienburg;
and hence these constellations are omitted from his catalogue. He diverged from Ptolemy when
he placed the asterisms Coma Berenices and Antinous upon the level of formal constellations,
Ptolemy having regarded these asterisms as unformed stars ([Greek: amorphôtoi]). The next innovator
of moment was Johann Bayer, a German astronomer, who published a Uranometria in 1603, in which
twelve constellations, all in the southern hemisphere, were added to Ptolemy's forty-eight,
viz. Apis (or Musca) (Bee), Avis Indica (Bird of Paradise), Chameleon, Dorado (Sword-fish),
Grus (Crane), Hydrus (Water-snake), Indus (Indian), Pavo (Peacock), Phoenix, Piscis volans
(Flying fish), Toucan, Triangulum australe. According to W. Lynn (Observatory, 1886, p. 255),
Bayer adapted this part of his catalogue from the observations of the Dutch navigator Petrus
Theodori (or Pieter Dirchsz Keyser), who died in 1596 off Java. The Coelum stellatum Christianum
of Julius Schiller (1627) is noteworthy for the attempt made to replace the names connoting
mythological and pagan ideas by the names of apostles, saints, popes, bishops, and other dignitaries
of the church, &c. Aries became St Peter; Taurus, St Andrew; Andromeda, the Holy Sepulchre;
Lyra, the Manger; Canis major, David; and so on. This innovation (with which the introduction
of the twelve apostles into the solar zodiac by the Venerable Bede may be compared) was shortlived.
According to Charles Hutton [Math. Dict. i. 328 (1795)] the editions published in 1654 and
1661 had reverted to the Greek names; on the other hand, Camille Flammarion (Popular Astronomy,
p. 375) quotes an illuminated folio of 1661, which represents "the sky delivered from pagans
and peopled with Christians." A similar confusion was attempted by E. Weigelius, who sought
to introduce a Coelum heraldicum, in which the constellations were figured as the arms or insignia
of European dynasties, and by symbols of commerce.

CONSTELLATION

 +----------------+---------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
 |     Modern.    |   Ptolemy. [Greek]  |       Ulugh Beg.       |      Tycho Brahe.     |      Meaning.     |
 +----------------+---------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Northern constellations (21).                                                                            |
 |  -----------------------------                                                                            |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Ursa minor        Arktou mikras         Stellae Ursi minoris     Ursa minor, Cynosura     Little Bear    |
 |                      asterismhost                                                                         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Ursa major        Arktou megalês a.     S. Ursi majoris          Ursa major, Helice       Great Bear     |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Draco             Drakontos a.          S. Draconis              Draco                    Dragon         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Cepheus           Kêpheôs a.            S. Cephei                Cepheus                  Cepheus        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Boötes            Boôtou a.             S. Vociferatoris         Boötes, Arctophylax      Ploughman      |
 |                                                                                                           |                                                                                                            |
 |  Corona borealis   Stephanou Boreiou a.  S. Coronae or Phecca     Corona borea             Northern Crown |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Hercules          Tou en gonasin a.     S. Incumbentis genubus   Engonasi, Hercules       Man kneeling   |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Lyra              Lyras a.              S. [tou] Shelyak or      Lyra, Vultur cadens      Lyre           |
 |                                             Testudo                                                       |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Cygnus            Ornithos a.           S. Gallinae              Olor, Cygnus             Bird, Swan     |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Cassiopeia        Kassiepeias a.        S. Inthronatae           Cassiopeia               Cassiopeia     |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Perseus           Perseôs a.            S. Bershaush or Portans  Perseus                  Perseus        |
 |                                            Caput Larvae                                                   |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Auriga            Hêniochou a.          S. Tenentis habenas      Auriga, Heniochus,       Charioteer     |
 |                                                                     Erichthonius                          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Serpentarius      Ophiouchou a.         S. Serpentarii           Ophiuchus, Serpentarius  Serpent-holder |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Serpens           Oreôs ophiouchou a.   S. Serpentis             Serpens ophiuchi         Serpent        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Sagitta           Oistou a.             S. Sagittae              Sagitta or Telum         Arrow          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Aquila            Aetou a.              S. Aquilae               Aquila or Vultur volans  Eagle          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Delphinus         Delphinos a.          S. Delphini              Delphinus                Dolphin        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Equuleus          Hippou protomês a.    S. Sectionis equi        Equuelus, Equi sectio    Colt           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Pegasus           Hippou a.             S. Equi majoris          Pegasus, Equus alatus    Pegasus, Horse |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Andromeda         Andromedas a.         S. Mulieris catenatae    Andromeda                Andromeda      |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Triangulum        Trigônou a.           S. Trianguli             Triangulus, Deltoton     Triangle       |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Zodiacal constellations (12).                                                                            |
 |  -----------------------------                                                                            |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Aries             Kriou a.              S. Arietis               Aries                    Ram            |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Taurus            Taurou a.             S. Tauri                 Taurus                   Bull           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Gemini            Didymôn a.            S. Gemellorum            Gemini                   Twins          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Cancer            Karkinou a.           S. Cancri                Cancer                   Crab           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Leo               Leontos a.            S. Leonis                Leo                      Lion           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Virgo             Parthenou a.          S. Virginis, Sumbela     Virgo                    Virgin         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Libra             Chêlôn a.             S. Librae                Libra                    Balance        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Scorpio           Skorpiou a.           S. Scorpionis            Scorpius                 Scorpion       |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Sagittarius       Toxotou a.            S. Sagittarii, Arcum     Sagittarius              Archer         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Capricornus       Aigokerôtos a.        S. Capricorni            Capricornus              Goat           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Aquarius          Hydrochoou a.         S. Effusoris aquae,      Aquarius                 Water-pourer   |
 |                                            Situla                                                         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Pisces            Ichthyôn a.           S. Piscis                Pisces                   Fishes         |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Southern constellations (15).                                                                            |
 |  -----------------------------                                                                            |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Cetus             Kêtous a.             S. Ceti                  Cete                     Sea-monster,   |
 |                                                                                              Whale        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Orion             Ôrionos a.            S. Gigantis              Orion                    Orion          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Eridanus          Potamou a.            S. Fluminis              Eridanus fluvius         River          |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Lepus             Lagôou a.             S. Leporis               Lepus                    Hare           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Canis major       Kynos a.              S. Canis majoris         Canis major              Great Dog      |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Canis minor       Prokynos a.           S. Canis minoris         Canis minor, Procyon     Little Dog     |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Argo              Argous a.             S. Navis                 Argo navis               Ship           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Hydra             Hydrou a.             S. Hydri                 Hydra                    Sea-serpent    |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Crater            Kratêros a.           S. Craterae              Crater                   Bowl           |
 |                                                                                                           |                                                                                                            |
 |  Corvus            Korakos a.            S. Corvi                 Corvus                   Crow           |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Centaurus         Kentaurou a.          S. Centauri              Centaurus, Chiron        Centaur        |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Lupus             Thêriou a.            S. Ferae                                          Wild beast     |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Ara               Thymiatêriou a.       S. Thuribuli                                      Censer, Altar  |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Corona australis  Stephanou notiou a.   S. Coronae australis                              Southern Crown |
 |                                                                                                           |
 |  Piscis australis  Ichthyos notiou a.    S. Piscis australis                               Southern Fish  |
 +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

In Edmund Halley's southern catalogue (Catalogus stellarum australium), published in 1679 and
incorporated in Flamsteed's Historia coelestis (1725), the following constellations are named:--Piscis
australis, Columba Noachi, Argo navis, Robur Caroli, Ara, Corona australis, Grus, Phoenix,
Pavo, Apus or Avis Indica, Musca apis, Chameleon, Triangulum australe, Piscis volans, Dorado
or Xiphias, Toucan or Anser Americanus, and Hydrus. Flamsteed's maps also contained Mons Menelai.
This list contains nothing new except Robur Caroli, since Columba Noachi (Noah's dove) had
been raised to the skies by Bartschius in 1624. The constellation Robur Caroli and also the
star Cor Caroli ([alpha] Canum Venaticorum) were named by Halley in honour of Charles II. of
England.

In 1690 two posthumous works of Johann Hevelius (1611-1687), the Firmamentum sobiescianum and
Prodromus astronomiae, added several new constellations to the list, viz. Canes venatici (the
Greyhounds), Lacerta (the Lizard), Leo minor (Little Lion), Lynx, Sextans Uraniae, Scutum or
Clypeus Sobieskii (the shield of Sobieski), Vulpecula et Anser (Fox and Goose), Cerberus, Camelopardus
(Giraffe), and Monoceros (Unicorn); the last two were originally due to Jacobus Bartschius.
In 1679 Augustine Royer introduced the most interesting of the constellations of the southern
hemisphere, the Crux australis or Southern Cross. He also suggested Nubes major, Nubes minor,
and Lilium, and re-named Canes venatici the river Jordan, and Vulpecula et Anser the river
Tigris, but these innovations met with no approval. The Magellanic clouds, a collection of
nebulae, stars and star-clusters in the neighbourhood of the south pole, were so named by Hevelius
in honour of the navigator Ferdinand Magellan.

Many other star-groupings have been proposed from time to time; in some cases a separate name
has been given to a part of an authoritatively accepted constellation, e.g. Ensis Orionis,
the sword of Orion, or an ancient constellation may be subdivided, e.g. Argo (ship) into Argo,
Malus (mast), Vela (sails), Puppis (stern), Carina (keel); and whereas some of the rearrangements,
which have been mostly confined to the southern hemisphere, have been accepted, many, reflecting
nothing but idiosyncrasies of the proposers, have deservedly dropped into oblivion. Nicolas
Louis de Lacaille, who made extended observations of the southern stars in 1751 and in the
following years, and whose results were embodied in his posthumous Coelum australe stelliferum
(1763), introduced the following new constellations:--Apparatus sculptoris (Sculptor's workshop),
Fornax chemica (Chemical furnace), Horologium (Clock), Reticulus rhomboidalis (Rhomboidal net),
Caela sculptoris (Sculptor's chisels), Equuleus pictoris (Painter's easel), Pyxis nautica (Mariner's
compass), Antlia pneumatica (Air pump), Octans (Octant), Circinus (Compasses), Norma alias
Quadra Euclidis (Square), Telescopium (Telescope), Microscopium (Microscope) and Mons Mensae
(Table Mountain). Pierre Charles Lemonnier in 1776 introduced Tarandus (Reindeer), and Solitarius;
J. J. L. de Lalande introduced Le Messier (after the astronomer Charles Messier) (1776), Quadrans
muralis (Mural quadrant) (1795), Globus aerostaticus (Air balloon) (1798), and Felis (the Cat)
(1799). Martin Poczobut introduced in 1777 Taurus Poniatovskii; Bode introduced the Honores
Frederici (Honours of Frederick) (1786), Telescopium Herschelii (Telescope of Herschel) (1787),
Machina electrica (Electrical machine) (1790), Officina typographica (Printing press) (1799),
and Lochium funis (Log line); and M. Hell formed the Psalterium Georgianum (George's lute).

The following list gives the names of the constellations now usually employed: they are divided
into three groups:--north of the zodiac, in the zodiac, south of the zodiac. Those marked with
an asterisk have separate articles.

                           Northern (28).

  *Andromeda        *Cepheus          *Hercules         Pegasus
  *Aquila           *Coma Berenices    Lacerta         *Perseus
  *Auriga           *Corona borealis  *Leo minor       *Sagitta
  *Boötes           *Cygnus            Lynx             Serpens
   Camelopardus     *Delphinus        *Lyra             Triangulum
  *Canes venatici    Draco           { Ophiuchus       *Ursa major
  *Cassiopeia        Equuleus        {*Serpentarius    *Ursa minor
                                                       *Vulpecula et Anser

                           Zodiacal (12).

  *Aquarius         *Capricornus      *Libra           *Scorpio
  *Aries            *Gemini           *Pisces          *Taurus
  *Cancer           *Leo              *Sagittarius     *Virgo.

                           Southern (49).

   Antlia            Columba Noachi    Lupus            Puppis
    (pneumatica)     Corona australis  Malus            Recticulum
   Apus              Corvus            Microscopium     Sculptor
  *Ara               Crater            Monoceros          (Apparatus
   Argo              Crux              Musca australis     sculptoris)
   Caela sculptoris  Dorado            Norma            Scutum Sobieskii
     (Caelum)       *Eridanus          Octans           Sextans
  *Canis major       Fornax chemica   *Orion            Telescopium
   Canis minor       Grus              Pavo             Toucan
   Carina            Horologium        Phoenix          Triangulum australe
  *Centaurus        *Hydra             Pictor           Vela
  *Cetus             Hydrus              (Equuleus      Volans
   Chameleon         Indus                pictoris)       (Piscis volans)
   Circinus          Lepus             Piscis australis
                                                                (C. E.*)

FOOTNOTE:

  [1] The historical development of star-catalogues in general, regarded
    as statistics of the co-ordinates, &c., of stars, is given in the
    historical section of the article Astronomy. See also E. B. Knobel,
    "Chronology of Star Catalogues," Mem. R.A.S. (1877).

CONSTIPATION (from Lat. constipare, to press closely together, whence also the adjective "costive"),
the condition of body when the faeces are unduly retained, or there is difficulty in evacuation,
tightness of the bowels (see Digestive Organs; and Therapeutics). It may be due to constitutional
peculiarities, sedentary or irregular habits, improper diet, &c. The treatment varies with
individual cases, according to the cause at work, laxatives, dieting, massage, &c., being prescribed.

CONSTITUENCY (from "constituent," that which forms a necessary part of a thing; Lat. constituere,
to create), a political term for the body of electors who choose a representative for parliament
or for any other public assembly, for the place or district possessing the right to elect a
representative, and for the residents generally, apart from their voting powers, in such a
locality. The term is also applied, in a transferred sense, to the readers of a particular
newspaper, the customers of a business and the like.

CONSTITUTION AND CONSTITUTIONAL LAW. The word constitution (constitutio) in the time of the
Roman empire signified a collection of laws or ordinances made by the emperor. We find the
word used in the same sense in the early history of English law, e.g. the Constitutions of
Clarendon. In its modern use constitution has been restricted to those rules which concern
the political structure of society. If we take the accepted definition of a law as a command
imposed by a sovereign on the subject, the constitution would consist of the rules which point
out where the sovereign is to be found, the form in which his powers are exercised, and the
relations of the different members of the sovereign body to each other where it consists of
more persons than one. In every independent political society, it is assumed by these definitions,
there will be found somewhere or other a sovereign, whether that sovereign be a single person,
or a body of persons, or several bodies of persons. The commands imposed by the sovereign person
or body on the rest of the society are positive laws, properly so called. The sovereign body
not only makes laws, but has two other leading functions, viz. those of judicature and administration.
Legislation is for the most part performed directly by the sovereign body itself; judicature
and administration, for the most part, by delegates. The constitution of a society, accordingly,
would show how the sovereign body is composed, and what are the relations of its members inter
se, and how the sovereign functions of legislation, judicature and administration are exercised.
Constitutional law consists of the rules relating to these subjects, and these rules may either
be laws properly so called, or they may not--i.e. they may or may not be commands imposed by
the sovereign body itself. The English constitutional rule, for example, that the king and
parliament are the sovereign, cannot be called a law; for a law presupposes the fact which
it asserts. And other rules, which are constantly observed in practice, but have never been
enacted by the sovereign power, are in the same way constitutional laws which are not laws.
It is an undoubted rule of the English constitution that the king shall not refuse his assent
to a bill which has passed both Houses of Parliament, but it is certainly not a law. Should
the king veto such a bill his action would be unconstitutional, but not illegal. On the other
hand the rules relating to the election of members to the House of Commons are nearly all positive
laws strictly so called. Constitutional law, as the phrase is commonly used, would include
all the laws dealing with the sovereign body in the exercise of its various functions, and
all the rules, not being laws properly so called, relating to the same subject.

The above is an attempt to indicate the meaning of the phrases in their stricter or more technical
uses. Some wider meanings may be noticed. In the phrase constitutional government, a form of
government based on certain principles which may roughly be called popular is the leading idea.
Great Britain, Switzerland, the United States, are all constitutional governments in this sense
of the word. A country where a large portion of the people has some considerable share in the
supreme power would be a constitutional country. On the other hand, constitutional, as applied
to governments, may mean stable as opposed to unstable and anarchic societies. Again, as a
term of party politics, constitutional has come to mean, in England, not obedience to constitutional
rules as above described, but adherence to the existing type of the constitution or to some
conspicuous portions thereof,--in other words, conservative.

The ideas associated with constitution and constitutionalism are thus, it will be seen, mainly
of modern and European origin. They are wholly inapplicable to the primitive and simple societies
of the present or of the former times. The discussion of forms of government occupies a large
space in the writings of the Greek philosophers,--a fact which is to be explained by the existence
among the Greeks of many independent political communities, variously organized, and more or
less democratic in character. Between the political problems of the smaller societies and those
of the great European nations there is no useful parallel to be drawn, although the predominance
of classical learning made it the fashion for a long time to apply Greek speculations on the
nature of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy to public questions in modern Europe. Representation
(q.v.), the characteristic principle of European constitutions, has, of course, no place in
societies which were not too large to admit of every free citizen participating personally
in the business of government. Nor is there much in the politics or the political literature
of the Romans to compare with the constitutions of modern states. Their political system, almost
from the beginning of empire, was ruled absolutely by a small assembly or by one man.

The impetus to constitutional government in modern times has to a large extent come from England,
and it is from English politics that the phrase and its associations have been borrowed. England
has offered to the world the one conspicuous example of a long, continuous, and orderly development
of political institutions. The early date at which the principle of self-government was established
in England, the steady growth of the principle, the absence of civil dissension, and the preservation
in the midst of change of so much of the old organization, have given its constitution a great
influence over the ideas of politicians in other countries. This fact is expressed in the proverbial
phrase--"England is the mother of parliaments." It would not be difficult to show that the
leading features of the constitutions now established in other nations have been based on,
or defended by, considerations arising from the political history of England.

In one important respect England differs conspicuously from most other countries. Her constitution
is to a large extent unwritten, using the word in much the same sense as when we speak of unwritten
law. Its rules can be found in no written document, but depend, as so much of English law does,
on precedent modified by a constant process of interpretation. Many rules of the constitution
have in fact a purely legal history, that is to say, they have been developed by the law courts,
as part of the general body of the common law. Others have in a similar way been developed
by the practice of parliament. Both Houses, in fact, have exhibited the same spirit of adherence
to precedent, coupled with a power of modifying precedent to suit circumstances, which distinguishes
the judicial tribunals. In a constitutional crisis the House of Commons appoints a committee
to "search its journals for precedents," just as the court of king's bench would examine the
records of its own decisions. And just as the law, while professing to remain the same, is
in process of constant change, so, too, the unwritten constitution is, without any acknowledgment
of the fact, constantly taking up new ground.

In contrast with the mobility of an unwritten constitution is the fixity of a constitution
written out, like that of the United States or Switzerland, in one authoritative code. The
constitution of the United States, drawn up at Philadelphia in 1787, is contained in a code
of articles. It was ratified separately by each state, and thenceforward became the positive
and exclusive statement of the constitution. The legislative powers of the legislature are
not to extend to certain kinds of bills, e.g. ex post facto bills; the president has a veto
which can only be overcome by a majority of two-thirds in both Houses; the constitution itself
can only be changed in any particular by the consent of the legislatures or conventions of
three-fourths of the several states; and finally the judges of the Supreme Court are to decide
in all disputed cases whether an act of the legislature is permitted by the constitution or not.

The constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the land as to the matters which
it embraces. The constitution of each state is the supreme law of the state, except so far
as it may be controlled by the constitution of the United States. Every statute in conflict
with the constitution to which it is subordinate is void so far as this conflict extends. If
it concerns only a distinct and separable part of the statute, that part only is void. Every
court before which a statutory right or defence is asserted has the power to inquire whether
the statute in question is or is not in conflict with the paramount constitution. This power
belongs even to a justice of the peace in trying a cause. He sits to administer the law, and
it is for him to determine what is the law. Inferior courts commonly decline to hold a statute
unconstitutional, even if there may appear to be substantial grounds for such a decision. The
presumption is always in favour of the validity of the law, and they generally prefer to leave
the responsibility of declaring it void to the higher courts.

The judges of the state courts are bound by their oath of office to support the constitution
of the United States. They have an equal right with those of the United States to determine
whether or how far it affects any matter brought in question in any action. So, vice versa,
the judges of the United States courts, if the point comes up on a trial before them, have
the right to determine whether or how far the constitution of a state invalidates a statute
of the state. They, however, are ordinarily bound to follow the views of the state courts on
such a question. They are not bound by any decision of a state court as to the effect of the
constitution of the United States on a state statute or any other matter. This judicial power
of declaring a statute void because unconstitutional has been not infrequently exercised, from
the time when the first state constitutions were adopted.

Juries in criminal causes are sometimes made by American statutes or recognized by American
practice as judges of the law as well as the fact. The better opinion is that this does not
make them judges of whether a law on which the prosecution rests violates the paramount constitution
and is therefore void (United States v. Callender, Wharton's State Trials, 688; State v. Main,
69 Connecticut Reports, 123, 128).

If a state court decides a point of constitutional law, set up under the constitution of the
United States, against the party relying upon it, and this decision is affirmed by the state
court of last resort, he may sue out a writ of error, and so bring his case before the Supreme
Court of the United States. If the state decision be in his favour, the other side cannot resort
to like proceedings.

A decree of the Supreme Court of the United States on a point of construction arising under
the constitution of the United States settles it for all courts, state and national.

The salient characteristic of the United States constitution is, perhaps, its formidable apparatus
of provisions against change; and, in fact, only 15 constitutional amendments had been adopted
from 1789 up to 1909, the last being in 1870. In the same period the unwritten constitution
of England has made a most marked advance, chiefly in the direction of democratizing the monarchy,
and diminishing the powers of the House of Lords. The House of Commons has continuously asserted
its legislative predominance, and has reduced the other House to the position of a revising
chamber, which in the last resort, however, can produce a legislative deadlock, subject to
the results of a new general election (see Parliament). And the cabinet, which depends on the
support of the House of Commons, has become more and more the executive council of the realm.
One conspicuous feature of the English constitution, by which it is broadly distinguished from
written or artificial constitutions, is the presence throughout its entire extent of legal
fictions. The influence of the lawyers on the progress of the constitution has already been
noticed, and is nowhere more clearly shown than in this peculiarity of its structure. As in
the common law, so in the constitution, change has been effected in substance without any corresponding
change in terminology. There is hardly one of the phrases used to describe the position of
the crown which can be understood in its literal sense, and many of them are currently accepted
in more senses than one. The American constitution of 1789 reproduced, however, in essentials,
and with necessary modifications, the contemporary British model, and, where it did so, has
preserved the old conception of what was then the British system of Government. The position
and powers of the president were a fair counterpart of the royal prerogative of that day; the
two houses of Congress corresponded sufficiently well to the House of Lords and the House of
Commons, allowing for the absence of the elements of hereditary rank and territorial influence.
While the English constitution has changed much, the American constitution has changed very
little in these respects. Allowing for the more democratic character of the constituencies,
the organization of the supreme power in the United States is nearer the English type of the
18th century--is, in fact, less elastic than in the United Kingdom.

On the other hand, it is not uncommon to misinterpret the rigidity of the United States constitution,
from a regard rather to the theory which its text suggests than to the practical working of
the machine. For the letter of the constitution has to some extent been modified, if not technically
amended, in various respects by judicial interpretation, and by use and wont (e.g. as regards
the election of the president). This side of the matter may be studied in C. G. Tiedeman's
work cited below. Moreover, even in respect of the 18th-century British character attaching
to the constitution, as drawn up in 1787, it has to be remembered that this was not taken direct
from England. As several American constitutional historians have elaborately shown (e.g. A.
C. McLaughlin, in The Confederation and the Constitution, 1905), the English idea had already
been developed in various directions during the preceding colonial period, and the constitution
really represented the English constitutional usage as known in America, into which the Philadelphia
convention introduced new features corresponding to the prevailing civil conditions or suggested
by English analogy. It is important to emphasize this point, since the resemblance of the American
constitution of 1789 to the contemporary English constitution has sometimes been exaggerated;
but the fact remains that the written constitution has been less susceptible of development
than the unwritten.

Between England and some other constitutional countries a difference of much constitutional
importance is to be found in the terms on which the component parts of the country were brought
together. All great societies have been produced by the aggregation of small societies into
larger and larger groups. In England the process of consolidation was completed before the
constitution settled down into its present form. In the United States, on the other hand, in
Switzerland, and in Germany the constitution is in form an alliance among a number of separate
states, each of which may have a constitution and laws of its own for local purposes. In federal
governments it remains a question how far the independence of individual states has been sacrificed
by submission to a constitution. In the United States constitutional progress is hampered by
the necessity thus created of having every amendment ratified by the separate vote of three-fourths
of the states.

   See also Government; Sovereignty; Cabinet; Prerogative, &c., and the
   section on Government or Constitution in the articles on the various
   countries. The standard work on the English constitution is Sir
   William Anson's Law and Custom of the Constitution (1st ed. 1886;
   3rd ed. 1909); see also A. L. Lowell, The Government of England
   (1908); W. Bagehot, The English Constitution; S. Low, The
   Governance of England (1904); A. V. Dicey, The Law of the
   Constitution (7th ed. 1909); W. Stubbs, Constitutional History of
   England (1878); R. Gneist, History of the English Constitution
   (Engl. trans. For America, see C. E. Stevens, Sources of the
   Constitution of the United States (London and New York, 1894); G. T.
   Curtis, Constitutional History of the United States (2 vols., New
   York, 1889-1896); T. McI. Cooley, General Principles of
   Constitutional Law in the United States (Boston, 1880; 3rd ed. Also A. L. Lowell, Government and Parties in Continental
   Europe (2 vols., 1896); W. F. Dodd, Modern Constitutions (2 vols.,
   Chicago, 1909), a collection of the fundamental laws of twenty-two of
   the most important countries.

"CONSTITUTION OF ATHENS" ([Greek: Athênaiôn politeia]), a work attributed to the philosopher
Aristotle (384-322 B.C.), forming one of a series of Constitutions ([Greek: politeiai]), 158
in number, which treated of the institutions of the various states in the Greek world. It was
extant until the 7th century of our era, or to an even later date, but was subsequently lost.
A copy of this treatise, written in four different hands upon four rolls of papyrus, and dating
from the end of the 1st century A.D., was discovered in Egypt, and acquired by the trustees
of the British Museum, for whom it was edited by F. G. Kenyon, assistant in the manuscript
department, and published in January 1891. Some very imperfect fragments of another copy had
been acquired by the Egyptian Museum at Berlin, and were published in 1880.

Authorship.--It may be regarded as now established that the treatise discovered in Egypt is
identical with the work upon the constitution of Athens that passed in antiquity under the
name of Aristotle. The evidence derived from a comparison of the British Museum papyrus with
the quotations from the lost work of Aristotle's which are found in scholiasts and grammarians
is conclusive. Of fifty-eight quotations from Aristotle's work, fifty-five occur in the papyrus.
Of thirty-three quotations from Aristotle, which relate to matters connected with the constitution,
or the constitutional history of Athens, although they are not expressly referred to the [Greek:
Athênaiôn politeia], twenty-three are found in the papyrus. Of those not found in the papyrus,
the majority appear to have come either from the beginning of the treatise, which is wanting
in the papyrus, or from the latter portion of it, which is mutilated. The coincidence, therefore,
is as nearly as possible complete. It may also be regarded as established by internal evidence
that the treatise was composed during the interval between Aristotle's return to Athens in
335 B.C. and his death in 322. There are two passages which give us the latter year as the
terminus ad quem, viz. c. 42. 1 and c. 62. 2. In the former passage the democracy which is
about to be described is spoken of as the "present constitution" ([Greek: ê nun katastasis
tês politeias]). The democratic constitution was abolished, and a timocracy established, on
the surrender of Athens to Antipater, at the end of the Lamian War, in the autumn of 322. At
the same time Samos was lost; it is still reckoned, however, among the Athenian possessions
in the latter passage. On the other hand, the foreign possessions of Athens are limited to
Lemnos, Imbros, Scyros, Delos and Samos. This could only apply to the period after Chaeronea
(338 B.C.). In c. 61. 1, again, mention is made of a special Strategus [Greek: epi tas symmorias];
but it can be proved from inscriptions that down to the year 334 the generals were collectively
concerned with the symmories. Finally, in c. 54. 7 an event is dated by the archonship of Cephisophon
(329). We thus get the years 329 and 322 as fixing the limits of the period to which the composition
of the work must be assigned. It follows that, whether it is by Aristotle or not, its date
is later than that of the Politics, in which there is no reference to any event subsequent
to the death of Philip in 336.

The only question as to authorship that can fairly be raised is the question whether it is
by Aristotle or by a pupil; i.e. as to the sense in which it is "Aristotelian." The argument
on the two sides may be summarized as follows:--

Against.--(i.) The occurrence of non-Aristotelian words and phrases and the absence of turns
of expression characteristic of the undisputed writings of Aristotle. (ii.) The occurrence
of statements contradictory of views found in the Politics; e.g. c. 4 (Constitution of Draco)
compared with Pol. 1274 b 15 ([Greek: Drakontos nomoi men eisi, politeia d' hyparchousê tous
nomous ethêken]); c. 8. 1 (the archons appointed by lot out of selected candidates) compared
with Pol. 1274 a 17, and 1281 b 31 (the archons elected by the demos); c. 17. 1 (total length
of Peisistratus' reign, 19 years) compared with Pol. 1315 b 32 (total length, 17 years); c.
21. 6 (Cleisthenes left the clan and phratries unaltered) compared with Pol. 1319 b 20 (Cleisthenes
increased the number of the phratries); c. 21. 2 and 4 compared with Pol. 1275 b 37 (different
views as to the class admitted to citizenship by Cleisthenes). It will be observed that the
instances quoted relate to the most famous names in the early history of Athens, viz. Draco,
Solon, Peisistratus and Cleisthenes. (iii.) Arguments drawn from the style, composition and
general character of the work, which are alleged to be unworthy of the author of the undoubtedly
genuine writings. There is no sense of proportion (contrast the space devoted to Peisistratus
and his sons, or to the Four Hundred and the Thirty, with the inadequate treatment of the period
between the Persian and Peloponnesian Wars); there is a lack of historical insight and an uncritical
acceptance of erroneous views; and the anecdotic element is unduly prominent. These considerations
led several of the earlier critics to deny the Aristotelian authorship, e.g. the editors of
the Dutch edition of the text, van Herwerden and van Leeuwen; Rühl, Cauer and Schvarcz in Germany;
H. Richards and others in England.

For.--(i.) The consensus of antiquity. Every ancient writer who mentions the Constitution attributes
it to Aristotle, while no writer is known to have questioned its genuineness. (ii.) The coincidence
of the date assigned to its composition on internal grounds with the date of Aristotle's second
residence in Athens. (iii.) Parallelisms of thought or expression with passages in the Politics;
e.g. c. 16. 2 and 3 compared with Pol. 1318 b 14 and 1319 a 30; the general view of Solon's
legislation compared with Pol. 1296 b 1; c. 27. 3 compared with Pol. 1274 a 9. To argument
(i.) against the authorship, it is replied that the Constitution is an historical work, intended
for popular use; differences in style and terminology from those of a philosophical treatise,
such as the Politics, are to be expected. To argument (ii.) it is replied that, as the Constitution
is a later work than the Politics, a change of view upon particular points is not surprising.
These considerations have led the great majority of writers upon the subject to attribute the
work to Aristotle himself. On this side are found Kenyon and Sandys among English scholars,
and in Germany, Wilamowitz, Blass, Gilbert, Bauer, Bruno Keil, Busolt, E. Meyer, and many others.
On the whole, it can hardly be doubted that the view which is supported by so great a weight
of authority is the correct one. The arguments advanced on the other side are not to be lightly
set aside, but they can scarcely outweigh the combination of external and internal evidence
in favour of the attribution to Aristotle. An attentive study of the parallel passages in the
Politics will go a long way towards carrying conviction. It is true that a series such as the
Constitutions might well be entrusted to pupils working under the direction of their master.
It is also true, however, that the Constitution of Athens must have been incomparably the most
important of the series and the one that would be most naturally reserved for the master's
hand. There are no traces in the treatise either of variety of authorship or of incompleteness,
though there are evidences of interpolation.

Contents.--The treatise consists of two parts, one historical, and the other descriptive. The
first forty-one chapters compose the former part, the remainder of the work the latter. The
first part comprised an account of the original constitution of Athens, and of the eleven changes
through which it successively passed (see c. 41). The papyrus, however, is imperfect at the
beginning (the manuscript from which it was copied appears to have been similarly defective),
the text commencing in the middle of a sentence which relates to the trial and banishment of
the Alcmeonidae for their part in the affair of Cylon. The missing chapters must have contained
a sketch of the original constitution, and of the changes introduced in the time of Ion and
Theseus.

   The following is an abstract of Part I. in its present form. Chapters
   2, 3, description of the constitution before the time of Draco. 4,
   Draco's constitution. 5-12, reforms of Solon. 13, party feuds after
   the legislation of Solon. 14-19, the rule of Peisistratus and his
   sons. 20, 21, the reforms of Cleisthenes. 22, changes introduced
   between Cleisthenes and the invasion of Xerxes. 23, 24, the supremacy
   of the Areopagus, 479-461 B.C. 25, its overthrow by Ephialtes. 26,
   27, changes introduced in the time of Pericles. 28, the rise of the
   demagogues. 29-33, the revolution of the Four Hundred. 34-40, the
   government of the Thirty. 41, list of the successive changes in the
   constitution. It may be noted that the reforms of Solon, the tyranny
   of Peisistratus and his sons, and the revolutions of the Four Hundred
   and the Thirty, together occupy considerably more than two-thirds of
   Part I.

   Part II. describes the constitution as it existed at the period of
   the composition of the treatise (329-322 B.C.). It begins with an
   account of the conditions of citizenship and of the training of the
   ephebi (citizens between the ages of 18 and 20). In chapters 43-49
   the functions of the Council ([Greek: boulê]) and of the officials
   who act in concert with it are described. 50-60 deal with the
   officials who are appointed by lot, of whom the most important are
   the nine Archons, to whose functions five chapters (55-59) are
   devoted. The military officers, who come under the head of elective
   officials, form the subject of c. 61. With c. 63 begins the section
   on the Law-courts, which occupied the remainder of the
   Constitution. This portion, with the exception of c. 63, is
   fragmentary in character, owing to the mutilated condition of the
   fourth roll of the papyrus on which it was written. It will thus be
   seen that the subjects which receive fullest treatment in Part II.
   are the Council, the Archons and the Law-courts. The Ecclesia, on the
   other hand, is dealt with very briefly, in connexion with the
   prytaneis and proedri (cc. 43, 44).

Sources.--The labours of several workers in this field, notably Bruno Keil and Wilamowitz,
have rendered it comparatively easy to form a general estimate of Aristotle's indebtedness
to previous writers, although problems of great difficulty are encountered as soon as it is
attempted to determine the precise sources from which the historical part of the work is derived.
Among these sources are unquestionably Herodotus (for the tyranny of Peisistratus, and for
the struggle between Cleisthenes and Isagoras), Thucydides (for the episode of Harmodius and
Aristogeiton, and for the Four Hundred), Xenophon (for the Thirty), and the poems of Solon.
There is now among critics a general consensus in favour of the view that the most important
of his sources was the Atthis of Androtion, a work published in all probability only a few
years earlier than the Constitution; in any case, after the year 346. From it are derived not
only the passages which are annalistic in character and read like excerpts from a chronicle
(e.g. c. 13. 1, 2; c. 22; c. 26. 2, 3), but also most of the matter common to the Constitution
and to Plutarch's Solon. The coincidences with Plutarch, which are often verbal, and extend
to about 50 lines out of 170 in cc. 5-11 of the Constitution, can best be explained on the
hypothesis that Hermippus, the writer followed by Plutarch, used the same source as Aristotle,
viz. the Atthis of Androtion. Androtion is probably closely followed in the account of the
pre-Draconian constitution, and to him appear to be due the explanation of local names (e.g.
[Greek: chôrion ateles]), or proverbial expressions (e.g. [Greek: to mê phylokrinein]), as
well as the account of "Strategems" such as that of Themistocles against the Areopagus (c.
25) or that employed by Peisistratus in order to disarm the people (c. 15. 4). Whether the
anecdotes, which are a conspicuous feature in the Constitution, should be referred to the same
source is more open to doubt. It is also generally agreed that among the sources was a work,
written towards the end of the 5th century B.C., by an author of oligarchical sympathies, with
the object of defaming the character and policy of the heroes of the democracy. This source
can be traced in passages such as c. 6. 2 (Solon turning the Seisachtheia to the profit of
himself and his friends), 9. 2 (obscurity of Solon's laws intentional, cf. c. 35. 2), 27. 4
(Pericles' motive for the introduction of the dicasts' pay). But while the object ([Greek:
oi boulomenoi blasphêmein], c. 6) and the date of this oligarchical pamphlet (for the date
cf. Plutarch's Solon, c. 15 [Greek: oi peri Konôna kai Kleinian kai Hipponikon], which points
to a time when Conon, Alcibiades and Callias were prominent in public life) are fairly certain,
the authorship is quite uncertain, as is also its relationship to another source of importance,
viz. that from which are derived the accounts of the Four Hundred and the Thirty. The view
taken of the character and course of these revolutions betrays a strong bias in favour of Theramenes,
whose ideal is alleged to have been the [Greek: patrios politeia]. It has been maintained,
on the one hand, that this last source (the authority followed in the accounts of the Four
Hundred and the Thirty) is identical with the oligarchical pamphlet, and, on the other, that
it is none other than the Atthis of Androtion. The former hypothesis is improbable. In favour
of the latter two arguments may be adduced. In the first place, Androtion's father, Andron,
was one of the Four Hundred, and took Theramenes' side. Secondly, the precise marks of time,
which are characteristic of the Atthis, are conspicuous in these chapters. In view, however,
of the fact that Androtion in his political career showed himself not only a democrat, but
a democrat of the extreme school, the hypothesis must be pronounced untenable.

Value.--It is by no means easy to convey a just impression of the value of Aristotle's work
as an authority for the constitutional history of Athens. In all that relates to the practice
of his own day Aristotle's authority is final. There can be no question, therefore, as to the
importance, or the trustworthy character, of the Second Part. But even here a caution is necessary.
It must be remembered that its authority is final for the 4th century only, and that we are
not justified in arguing from the practice of the 4th century to that of the 5th, unless corroborative
evidence is available. In the First Part, however, where he is treating of the institutions
and practice of a past age, Aristotle's authority is very far from being final. An analysis
of this part of the work discloses his dependence, in a remarkable degree, upon his sources.
Occasionally he compares, criticizes or combines; as a rule he adheres closely to the writer
whom he is using. There is no evidence, either of independent inquiry, or of the utilization
of other sources than literary ones. Where "original documents" are quoted, or referred to,
as e.g. in the history of the Four Hundred, or of the Thirty, it is probable that he derived
them from a previous writer. For the authority of Aristotle we must substitute, therefore,
the authority of his sources; i.e. the value of any particular statement will vary with the
character of the source from which it comes. For the history of the 5th century the passages
which come from Androtion's Atthis carry with them a high degree of authority. It by no means
follows, however, that a statement relating to earlier times is to be accepted simply because
it is derived from the same source. And in passages which are derived from other sources than
the Atthis a much lower degree of authority can be claimed, even for statements relating to
the 5th century. The supremacy of the Areopagus after the Persian Wars, the policy attributed
to Aristides (c. 24), and the association of Themistocles with Ephialtes, are cases in point.
Nor must the reader expect to find in the Constitution a great work, in any sense of the term.
The style, it is true, is simple and clear, and the writer's criticisms are sensible. But the
reader will look in vain for evidence of the philosophic insight which makes the Politics,
even at the present day, the best text-book of political philosophy. It is perhaps hardly too
much to say that there is not a single great idea in the whole work. He will look in vain,
too, for any consistent view of the history of the constitution as a whole, or for any adequate
account of its development. He will find occasional misunderstandings of measures, and confusions
of thought. There are appreciations which it is difficult to accept, and inaccuracies which
it is difficult to pardon. There are contradictions which the author has overlooked, and there
are omissions which are unaccountable. Yet, in spite of such defects, the importance of the
Constitution can hardly be exaggerated. Its recovery has rendered obsolete any history of the
Athenian constitution that was written before the year 1891. Before this date our knowledge
was largely derived from the statements of scholiasts and lexicographers which had not seldom
been misunderstood. The recovery of the Constitution puts us for the first time in possession
of the evidence. To appreciate the difference that has been made by its recovery, it is only
necessary to compare what we now know of the reforms of Cleisthenes with what we formerly knew.
It is much of it evidence that needs a careful process of weighing and sifting before it can
be safely used; but it is, as a rule, the best, or the only evidence. The First Part may be
less trustworthy than the Second; it is not less indispensable to the student of constitutional
history.

   BIBLIOGRAPHY.--A conspectus of the literature of the Constitution
   complete down to the end of 1892 is given in Sandys p. lxvii., and,
   though less complete, down to the beginning of 1895 in Busolt,
   Griechische Geschichte, 2nd ed. vol. ii. p. 15. In the present
   article only the most important editions, works or articles are
   mentioned.

   Editions of the text: Editio princeps, ed. by F. G. Kenyon, 30th
   January 1891, with commentary. Autotype facsimile of the papyrus
   (1891). Aristotelis [Greek: politeia Athênaiôn], ed. G. Kaibel et
   U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff (Berlin, Weidmann, 1891). Aristotelis
   qui fertur [Greek: Athênaiôn politeia] recensuerunt H. van Herwerden
   et J. van Leeuwen (Leiden, 1891). Teubner text, ed. by F. Blass
   (Leipzig, 1892). Edition of the text without commentary by Kenyon.

   Most of these have passed through several editions. The fullest
   commentary is that contained in the edition of the text by J. E.
   Sandys (London, 1893). The best translations are those of Kenyon, in
   English, and of Kaibel and Kiessling, in German.

   Works dealing with the subject: Bruno Keil, Die Solonische
   Verfassung nach Aristoteles (Berlin, 1892); G. Gilbert,
   Constitutional Antiquities of Sparta and Athens (Eng. trans.,
   1895); U. von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff, Aristoteles und Athen (2
   vols., Berlin, 1893), a work of great importance, in spite of many
   unsound conclusions; E. Meyer, Forschungen, vol. ii. pp. 406 ff.
   (the section dealing with the Four Hundred is especially valuable).
   Articles: R. W. Macan, Journal of Hellenic Studies (April 1891); R.
   Nissen, Rheinisches Museum (1892), p. 161; G. Busolt, Hermes
   (1898), pp. 71 ff.; O. Seeck, "Quellenstudien zu des Aristoteles'
   Verfassungsgeschichte Athens," in Lehmann's Beiträge zur alten
   Geschichte, vol. iv. pp. 164 and 270.     (E. M. W.)

CONSUETUDINARY (Med. Lat. consuetudinarius, from consuetudo, custom), customary, a term used
especially of law based on custom as opposed to statutory or written law. As a noun "consuetudinary"
(Lat. consuetudinarius, sc. liber) is the name given to a ritual book containing the forms
and ceremonies used in the services of a particular monastery, cathedral or religious order.

CONSUL (in Gr. generally [Greek: hypatos], a shortened form of [Greek: stratêgos hypatos],
i.e. praetor maximus), the title borne by the two highest of the ordinary magistrates of the
whole Roman community during the republic. In the imperial period these magistrates had ceased
practically to be the heads of the state, but their technical position remained unaltered.
(For the modern commercial office of consul see the separate article below.)

The consulship arose with the fall of the ancient monarchy (see further ROME: History, II.
"The Republic"). The Roman reverence for the abstract conception of the magistracy, as expressed
in the imperium and the auspicia, led to the preservation of the regal power weakened only
by external limitations. The two new officials who replaced the king bore the titles of leaders
(praetores) and of judges (judices; cf. Cicero, De legibus, iii. 3. 8, "regio imperio duo sunto
iique a praeeundo judicando ... praetores judices ... appellamino"). But the new fact of colleagueship
caused a third title to prevail, that of consules or "partners," a word probably derived from
consalio on the analogy of praesul and exul (Mommsen, Staatsrecht, ii. p. 77, n. 3). This first
example of the collegiate principle assumed the form that soon became familiar in the Roman
commonwealth. Each of the pair of magistrates could act up to the full powers of the imperium;
but the dissent of his colleague rendered his decision or his action null and void. At the
same time the principle of a merely annual tenure of office was insisted on. The two magistrates
at the close of their year of office were bound to transmit their power to successors; and
these successors whom they nominated were obliged to seek the suffrages of the people. The
only body known to us as electing the consuls during the republican period was the comitia
centuriata (see Comitia). The consulate was originally confined to patricians. During the struggle
for higher office that was waged between the orders the office was suspended on fifty-one occasions
between the years 444 and 367 B.C. and replaced by the military tribunate with consular power,
to which plebeians were eligible. The struggle was brought to an end by the Licinio-Sextian
laws of 367 B.C., which enacted that one consul must be a plebeian (see Patricians).

Most of the internal history of Rome down to the beginning of the third century B.C. consists
in a series of attacks, whether intentional or accidental, on the power of the executive. As
the consuls are the sole representatives of higher executive authority in early times, this
history is one of a progressive decline in the originally wide and arbitrary powers of the
office. Their right of summary criminal jurisdiction was weakened by the successive laws of
appeal (provocatio); their capacity for interpreting the civil law at their pleasure by the
publication of the Twelve Tables and the Forms of Action. The growth of the tribunate of the
plebs hampered their activity both as legislators and as judges. They surrendered the duties
of registration to the censors in 443 B.C., and the rights of civil jurisdiction and control
over the market and police to the praetor and the curule aediles in 367 B.C.

The result of these limitations and of this specialization of functions in the community was
to leave the consuls with less specific duties at home than any magistrates in the state. But
the absence of specific functions may be of itself a sign of a general duty of supervision.
The consuls were in a very real sense the heads of the state. Polybius describes them as controlling
the whole administration (Polyb. vi. 12 [Greek: pasôn eisi kurioi tôn dêmosiôn praxeôn]). This
control they exercised in concert with the senate, whose chief servants they were. It was they
who were the most regular consultants of this council, who formulated its decrees as edicts,
and who brought before the people legislative measures which the senate had approved. It was
they also who represented the state to the outer world and introduced foreign envoys to the
senate. The symbols of their presidency were manifold. It was marked by the twelve lictors
(q.v.), a number permitted to no other ordinary magistrate, by the fact that the first act
of newly-admitted consuls was to take the auspices, their second to summon the senate, and
by the use of their names for dating the year. The consulate was, indeed, as Cicero expresses
it, the culminating point in an official career ("Honorum populi finis est consulatus," Cic.
Pro Planco, 25. 60).

In the domestic sphere the consuls retained certain powers of jurisdiction. This jurisdiction
was either (i.) administrative or (ii.) criminal. (i.) Their administrative jurisdiction was
sometimes concerned with financial matters such as pecuniary claims made by the state and individuals
against one another. They acted in these matters in the periods during which the censors were
not in office. We also find them adjudicating in disputes about property between the cities
of Italy, (ii.) Their criminal jurisdiction was of three kinds. In the first place it was their
duty, before the development of the standing commissions which originated in the middle of
the 2nd century B.C., to set in motion the criminal law against offenders for the cognizance
of ordinary, as opposed to political, crimes. The reference of such cases to the assembly of
the people was effected through their quaestors (see Quaestor). Secondly, when the people and
senate, or the senate alone, appointed a special commission (see Senate), the commissioner
named was often a consul. Thirdly, we find the consul conducting a criminal inquiry raised
by a point of international law. It is possible that in this case his advising body (consilium)
was composed of the fetiales (see Herald, ad fin.). (Cicero, De republica, iii. 18. 28; Mommsen,
Staatsrecht, ii. p. 112, n. 3).

During the greater part of the republic the consuls were recognized as the heads of the administration
abroad as well as at home. It thus became necessary that departments of administration (provinciae)
should be determined and assigned. The method of assignment varied. The least usual device
was for one consul to take the field at the head of an army, while the other remained at home
to transact the civil business of state. More often foreign wars demanded the attention of
both consuls. In this case the regular army of four legions was usually divided between them.
When it was necessary that both armies should co-operate, the principle of rotation was adopted,
each consul having the command for a single day--a practice which may be illustrated by the
events preceding the battle of Cannae (Polybius iii. 110; Livy xxii. 41). During the great
period of conquest from 264 to 146 B.C. Italy was generally one of the consular "provinces,"
some foreign country the other; and when at the close of this period Italy was at peace, this
distinction approximated to one between civil and military command. The consuls settled their
departments amongst themselves by agreement or by lot (comparatio, sortitio), the power of
declaring what should be the consular provinciae was usurped by the senate, (see Senate), and
a lex Sempronia passed by C. Gracchus, probably in 122 B.C., ordained that the two consular
provinces should be declared before the election of the consuls. At this time the consuls entered
office on the 1st of January (a practice which commenced in 153 B.C.), and their military command
began on the 1st of March. They could hold this military command until they were superseded
in the following March, and thus their tenure of power was practically raised to fourteen months.
But meanwhile the home officials invested with the imperium had proved insufficient for the
military needs of the empire, and the system of prolonging the command (prorogatio imperii)
had been growing up (see Province). The consul whose command had been prolonged now served
abroad as proconsul. It is probable that Sulla in his legislation of 81 B.C. did something
to stereotype this system. Certainly the government by pro-magistrates becomes the rule after
this period (cf. Cicero, De natura deorum, ii. 3. 9; De divinatione, ii. 36. 76, 77), although
there are several instances of consuls assuming the active command of provinces between the
years 74 and 55 B.C. (Mommsen, Rechtsfrage, p. 30), and Cicero declares that the consul has
a right to approach every province ("consules, quibus more majorum concessum est vel omnes
adire provincias," Cicero, Ad Atticum, viii. 15. 3). Certainly in theory the provinces were
still regarded as "consular," not "proconsular," and were technically, although not practically,
held from the 1st of March of the consul's tenure of office at Rome (cf. Cicero, De provinciis
consularibus, 15. 37; Mommsen, Rechtsfrage, passim). It was not until the lex Pompeia of 52
B.C. (Dio Cassius xl. 56) had established a five years' interval between home and foreign command
that the theory of the prorogatio imperii vanished and the proconsulate became a separate office.

Since the theory of the persistence of the republican constitution was of the essence of the
Principate, the consuls necessarily lost little of their outward position and dignity under
the rule of the Caesars. The consulship was the only office in which a citizen, other than
a member of the imperial house, might have the princeps as a colleague, and in the interval
between the death or deposition of one princeps and the appointment of another the consuls
resumed their normal position as the heads of the state (cf. Herodian ii. 12). As the presidents
of the senate, who after A.D. 14 elected them to their office, they were the chief personal
representatives of those elements of sovereignty that were supposed to attach to that body,
and they directed that high criminal jurisdiction which the senate of this period assumed (see
Senate). A restored power of jurisdiction is indeed one of the features of their position during
this time, and it is probable that the civil appeals which came to the senate were delegated
to the consuls. They also acted for a time as delegates to the princeps in matters of Chancery
jurisdiction such as trusts and guardianship (Mommsen, Staatsrecht, ii. p. 103). The consulship
was also a preparation for certain high commands, such as the government of certain public
and imperial provinces (see Province) and the praefecture of the city. It was probably due
to the fact that the consulship was such a prize, and perhaps also to the expense imposed on
the office by its association with the celebration of games (Dio Cassius lvi. 46, lix. 20)
that the tenure was progressively shortened. In the early principate the consuls hold office
for six months, later for four to two months (Mommsen, Staatsrecht, ii. pp. 84-87). The consuls
appointed for the 1st of January were called ordinarii, the others suffecti; and the whole
year was dated by the names of the former.

This distinction continued in the Empire that was founded by Diocletian and Constantine. The
ordinarii were nominated by the emperor, the suffecti were nominated by the senate, and their
appointment was ratified by the emperor. The consulship was still the greatest dignity which
the Empire had to bestow; and the pomp and ceremony of the office increased in proportion to
the decline in its actual power. The entry of the consuls on office was celebrated by a great
procession, by games given to the people, by a distribution of gifts, such as the ivory diptychs,
a long series of which has been preserved. But the senate, over which they presided until the
time of Justinian, was little more than the municipal council of the city of Rome; and the
justice which they meted out had dwindled down to the formal and uncontested acts of manumission
and the granting of guardians. Sometimes there was a consul of the West at Rome and a consul
of the East at Constantinople; at other times both consuls might be found in either capital.
The last consul born in a private station was Basilius in the East in A.D. 541. But the emperors
continued to bear the title for some time longer.

   AUTHORITIES.--Mommsen, Römisches Staatsrecht, ii. pp. 74-140 (3rd
   ed., Leipzig, 1887); Herzog, Geschichte und System der römischen
   Staatsverfassung, i. p. 688 foll., 827 foll. (Leipzig, 1884, &c.),
   Lange, Römische Alterthümer, i. p. 524 foll. (Berlin, 1856, &c.);
   Schiller, Staats- und Rechtsaltertümer, p. 53 foll. (Munich, 1893,
   Handbuch der klassischen Altertums-Wissenschaft, von Dr Iwan von
   Müller); Daremberg-Saglio, Dictionnaire des antiquités grecques et
   romaines, i. 1455 foll. (1875, &c.); De Ruggiero, Dizionario
   epigrafico di antichità Romane, ii. 679 foll., 868 foll. (Rome,
   1886, &c.); Pauly-Wissowa, Realencyclopädie, iv. 1112 foll. (new
   edition, Stuttgart, 1893, &c.).

   For the consular diptychs, cf. besides Daremberg-Saglio, l.c.,
   Gori, Thesaurus veterum diptychorum (Florence, 1759), and Labarte,
   Histoire des arts industriels au moyen âge, i. p. 10 foll., 190
   foll. (1st ed., Paris, 1864).     (A. H. J. G.)

CONSUL, a public officer authorized by the state whose commission he bears to manage the commercial
affairs of its subjects in a foreign country, and formally permitted by the government of the
country wherein he resides to perform the duties which are specified in his commission, or
lettre de provision. (For the ancient magisterial office of consul see separate article above.)

A consul, as such, is not invested with any diplomatic character, and he cannot enter on his
official duties until a rescript, termed an exequatur (sometimes a mere countersign endorsed
on the commission), has been delivered to him by the authorities of the state to which his
nomination has been communicated by his own government. This exequatur, called in Turkey a
barat, may be revoked at any time at the discretion of the government where he resides. The
status of consuls commissioned by the Christian powers to reside in Mahommedan countries, China,
Korea, Siam, and, until 1899, in Japan, and to exercise judicial functions in civil and criminal
matters between their own countrymen and strangers, is exceptional to the common law, and is
founded on special conventions or capitulations (q.v.).

The title of consul, in the sense in which it is used in international law, is derived from
that of certain magistrates, in the cities of medieval Italy, Provence and Languedoc, charged
with the settlement of trade disputes whether by sea or land (consules mercatorum, consules
artis maris, &c.)[1] With the growth of trade it early became convenient to appoint agents
with similar powers in foreign parts, and these often, though not invariably, were styled consuls
(consules in partibus ultramarinis).[2] The earliest foreign consuls were those established
by Genoa, Pisa, Venice and Florence, between 1098 and 1196, in the Levant, at Constantinople,
in Palestine, Syria and Egypt. Of these the Pisan agent at Constantinople bore the title of
consul, the Venetian that of baylo (q.v.). In 1251 Louis IX. of France arranged a treaty with
the sultan of Egypt under which French consuls were established at Tripoli and Alexandria,
and Du Cange cites a charter of James of Aragon, dated 1268, granting to the city of Barcelona
the right to elect consuls in partibus ultramarinis, &c. The free growth of the system was,
however, hampered by commercial and dynastic rivalries. The system of French foreign consulships,
for instance, all but died out after the crushing of the independent life of the south and
the incorporation of Provence and Languedoc under the French crown; while, with the establishment
of Venetian supremacy in the Levant, the baylo developed into a diplomatic agent of the first
class at the expense of the consuls of rival states. The modern system of consulships actually
dates only from the 16th century. Early in this century both England and Scotland had their
"conservators" with "jurisdiction to do justice between merchant and merchant beyond the seas";
but France led the way. The alliance between Francis I. and Suleiman the Magnificent gave her
special advantages in the Levant, of which she was not slow to take advantage. Her success
culminated in the capitulations signed in 1604, under the terms of which her consuls were given
precedence over all others and were endowed with diplomatic immunities (e.g. freedom from arrest
and from domiciliary visits), while the traders of all other nations were put under the protection
of the French flag. It was not till 1675 that, under the first capitulations signed with Turkey,
English consuls were established in the Ottoman empire. Ten years earlier, under the commercial
treaty between England and Spain, they had been established in Spain.

The frequent wars of the succeeding century hindered the development of the consular system.
Thus, though the system of consuls was regularly established in France by the ordinance of
1661, in 1760 France had consuls only in the Levant, Barbary, Italy, Spain and Portugal, while
she discouraged the establishment of foreign consuls in her own ports as tending to infringe
her own jurisdiction. It was not till the 19th century that the system developed universally.
Hitherto consuls had, for the most part, been business men with no special qualification as
regards training; but the French system, under which the consular service had been long established
as part of the general civil service of the country, a system that had survived the Revolution
unchanged, was gradually adopted by other nations; though, as in France, consuls not belonging
to the regular service, and having an inferior status, continued to be appointed. In Great
Britain the consular service was organized in 1825 (see below); in France the series of ordinances
and laws by which its modern constitution was fixed began in 1833. In Germany progress was
hindered by the political conditions of the country under the old Confederation; for the Hanse
cities, which practically monopolized the oversea trade, lacked the means to establish a consular
system on the French model. The present magnificently organized consular system of Germany
is, then, one of the most remarkable outcomes of the establishment of the united empire. It
was initiated by an act of the parliament of the North German Confederation (Nov. 8, 1867),
subsequently incorporated in the statutes of the Empire, which laid down the principle that
the German consulates were to be under the immediate jurisdiction of the president of the Confederation
(later the emperor). The functions, duties and privileges of French and German consuls do not
differ materially from those of British consuls; but there is a great difference in the organization
and personnel of the consular service. In France, apart from the consuls élus or consuls marchands,
who are mere consular agents, selected by the government from among the traders of a town where
it desires to be represented, and unsalaried, the consular body proper was, by the decrees
of July 10, 1880, and April 27, 1883, practically constituted a branch of the diplomatic service.
It is recruited from the same sources, and its members are free to exchange into the corps
diplomatique, or vice versa. Candidates for the diplomatic and consular services have to undergo
the same training and pass the same examinations, i.e. in the constitutional, administrative
and judicial organization of the various powers, in international law, commercial law and maritime
law, in the history of treaties and in commercial and political geography, in political economy,
and in the German and English languages. They have to serve three years abroad or attached
to some ministerial department before they can enter for the examination which entitles them
to an appointment as attaché or as consul suppléant. This assimilation of the consular to the
diplomatic service remains peculiar to France.[3]

In Germany it was enacted by the law of February 28, 1873, that German consuls must be either
trained jurists, or must have passed special examinations. The result of this system has been
the establishment throughout the world of an elaborate network of trained commercial experts,
directly responsible to the central government, and charged as one of their principal duties
with the task of keeping the government informed of all that may be of interest to German traders.
These annual consular reports were from the first regularly and promptly published in the Deutsche
Handelsarchiv, and have contributed much to the wonderful expansion of German trade. The right
to establish consuls is now universally recognized by Christian civilized states. Jurists at
one time contended that according to international law a right of "ex-territoriality" attached
to consuls, their persons and dwellings being sacred, and themselves amenable to local authority
only in cases of strong suspicion on political grounds. It is now admitted that, apart from
treaty, custom has established very few consular privileges; that perhaps consuls may be arrested
and incarcerated, not merely on criminal charges, but for civil debt; and that, if they engage
in trade or become the owners of immovable property, their persons certainly lose protection.
This question of arrest has been frequently raised in Europe:--in the case of Barbuit, a tallow-chandler,
who from 1717 to 1735 acted as Prussian consul in London, and to whom the exemption conferred
by statute on ambassadors was held not to apply; in the case of Cretico, the Turkish consul
in London in 1808; in the case of Begley, the United States consul at Genoa, arrested in Paris
in 1840; and in the case of De la Fuente Hermosa, Uruguayan consul, whom the Cour Royale of
Paris in 1842 held liable to arrest for debt. In the same way consuls are often exempt from
all kinds of rates and taxes, and always from personal taxes. They are exempt from billeting
and military service, but are not entitled (except in the Levant, where also freedom from arrest
and trial is the rule) to have private chapels in their houses. The right of consuls to exhibit
their national arms and flag over the door of the bureau is not disputed.

Until the year 1825 British consuls were usually merchants engaged in trade in the foreign
countries in which they acted as consuls, and their remuneration consisted entirely of fees.
An act of that year, however, organized the consular service as a branch of the civil service,
with payment by a fixed salary instead of by fees; consuls were forbidden also to engage in
trade, and the management of the service was put under the control of a separate department
of the foreign office, created for the purpose. In 1832 the restriction as to engaging in trade
was withdrawn, except as regards salaried members of the British consular service.

The duty of consuls, under the "General Instructions to British Consuls," is to advise His
Majesty's trading subjects, to quiet their differences, and to conciliate as much as possible
the subjects of the two countries. Treaty rights he is to support in a mild and moderate spirit;
and he is to check as far as possible evasions by British traders of the local revenue laws.
Besides assisting British subjects who are tried for offences in the local courts, and ascertaining
the humanity of their treatment after sentence, he has to consider whether home or foreign
law is more appropriate to the case, having regard to the convenience of witnesses and the
time required for decision; and, where local courts have wrongfully interfered, he puts the
home government in motion through the consul-general or ambassador. He sends in reports on
the labour, manufacture, trade, commercial legislation and finance, technical education, exhibitions
and conferences of the country or district in which he resides, and, generally, furnishes information
on any subject which may be desired of him. He acts as a notary public; he draws up marine
and commercial protests, attests documents brought to him, and, if necessary, draws up wills,
powers of attorney, or conveyances. He celebrates marriages in accordance with the provisions
of the Foreign Marriage Act 1892, and, where the ministrations of a clergyman cannot be obtained,
reads the burial service. At a seaport he has certain duties to perform in connexion with the
navy. In the absence of any of His Majesty's ships he is senior naval officer; he looks after
men left behind as stragglers, or in hospital or prison, and sends them on in due course to
the nearest ship. He is also empowered by statute to advance for the erection or maintenance
of Anglican churches, hospitals, and places of interment sums equal to the amount subscribed
for the purpose by the resident British subjects.

As the powers and duties of consuls vary with the particular commercial interests they have
to protect, and the civilization of the state in whose territory they reside, instead of abstract
definition, we summarize the provisions on this subject of the British Merchant Shipping Acts.[4]
Consuls are bound to send to the Board of Trade such reports or returns on any matter relating
to British merchant shipping or seamen as they may think necessary. Where a consul suspects
that the shipping or navigation laws are being evaded, he may require the owner or master to
produce the log-book or other ship documents (such as the agreement with the seamen, the account
of the crew, the certificate of registration); he may muster the crew, and order explanations
with regard to the documents. Where an offence has been committed on the high seas, or aboard
ashore, by British seamen or apprentices, the consul makes inquiry on oath, and may send home
the offender and witnesses by a British ship, particulars for the Board of Trade being endorsed
on the agreement for conveyance. He is also empowered to detain a foreign ship the master or
seamen of which appear to him through their misconduct or want of skill to have caused injury
to a British vessel, until the necessary application for satisfaction or security be made to
the local authorities. Every British mercantile ship, not carrying passengers, on entering
a port gives into the custody of the consul to be endorsed by him the seamen's agreement, the
certificate of registry, and the official log-book; a failure to do this is reported to the
registrar-general of seamen. The following five provisions are also made for the protection
of seamen. If a British master engage seamen at a foreign port, the engagement is sanctioned
by the consul, acting as a superintendent of Mercantile Marine Offices. The consul collects
the property (including arrears of wages) of British seamen or apprentices dying abroad, and
remits to H.M. paymaster-general. He also provides for the subsistence of seamen who are shipwrecked,
discharged, or left behind, even if their service was with foreign merchants; they are generally
sent home in the first British ship that happens to be in want of a complement, and the expenses
thus incurred form a charge on the parliamentary fund for the relief of distressed seamen,
the consul receiving a commission of 2½% on the amount disbursed. Complaints by crews as to
the quality and quantity of the provisions on board are investigated by the consul, who enters
a statement in the log-book and reports to the Board of Trade. Money disbursed by consuls on
account of the illness or injury of seamen is generally recoverable from the owner. With regard
to passenger vessels, the master is bound to give the consul facilities for inspection and
for communication with passengers, and to exhibit his "master's list," or list of passengers,
so that the consul may transmit to the registrar-general, for insertion in the Marine Register
Book, a report of the passengers dying and children born during the voyage. The consul may
even defray the expenses of maintaining, and forwarding to their destination, passengers taken
off or picked up from wrecked or injured vessels, if the master does not undertake to proceed
in six weeks; these expenses becoming, in terms of the Passenger Acts 1855 and 1863, a debt
due to His Majesty from the owner or charterer, where a salvor is justified in detaining a
British vessel, the master may obtain leave to depart by going with the salvor before the consul,
who, after hearing evidence as to the service rendered and the proportion of ship's value and
freight claimed, fixes the amount for which the master is to give bond and security. In the
case of a foreign wreck the consul is held to be the agent of the foreign owner. Much of the
notarial business which is imposed on consuls, partly by statute and partly by the request
of private parties, consists in taking the declarations as to registry, transfers, &c., under
the Mercantile Shipping Acts. Consuls in the Ottoman empire, China, Siam and Korea have extensive
judicial and executive powers.

Since the incorporation of the British consular service in the civil service there have been
several proposals to "reform" the system with the view of increasing its usefulness, more particularly
from the point of view of providing assistance to British trade abroad (see Reports of Special
Committees of the House of Commons on the Consular Service, 1858, 1872, 1903). It has been
frequently urged that British consuls in their commercial knowledge and intercourse with foreign
merchants compare unfavourably, for example, with the consuls of the United States. It must
be remembered, however, that there are points of striking dissimilarity between the duties
of the consuls of these two countries. The American consul is necessarily brought much into
touch with the trade and commerce of the country to which he is assigned through the system
of consular invoices (see Ad Valorem); in his ordinary reports he is not confined to one stereotyped
form, and when preparing special reports (a valuable feature of the United States consular
service) he is liberally treated as regards any expense to which he has been put in obtaining
information. He is practically free from the multifarious duties which the English consul has
to discharge in connexion with the mercantile marine, nor has he to perform marriage ceremonies;
and financially he is much better off, being allowed to retain as personal all fees obtained
from his notarial duties. The Committee of 1903 was appointed to inquire, inter alia, whether
the limits of age--25 to 50--for candidates should be altered, and whether service as a vice-consul
for a certain period should be required to qualify for promotion to the rank of consul; whether
means could not be adopted to give consular officers opportunities of increasing their practical
knowledge of commercial matters and to bring them more into personal contact with the commercial
community. The suggestions of the committee as the result of its inquiries were adopted in
principle by the Foreign Office. The consular service is now grouped into three main divisions:
(1) the general service; (2) Levant and Persia; and (3) China, Japan, Korea and Siam. The general
consular service is graded into three divisions: first grade, consuls-general, salary £1000
with local allowances; second grade, consuls-general and consuls, salary £800 and local allowances;
third grade, consuls, salary £600, with local allowances. Vice-consuls have an annual salary
of £350, rising by annual increments of £15 to £450. In the general consular service appointments
are sometimes made to the higher offices from the ranks, but more usually from a select list
of nominees, who must pass a qualifying examination. A proportion of the vacancies are reserved
for competition amongst candidates who have had actual commercial experience. Divisions 2 and
3 are recruited by open competition. There were at one time a small number of commercial agents
whose business consisted in watching and reporting on the commerce, industries and products
of special districts, and in answering inquiries on commercial subjects. Their duties were
subsequently transferred to the consular staff, and a new class of officers, consular attachés,
created. The consular attachés divide their time between special investigations abroad, and
visits to manufacturing districts in the United Kingdom. The headquarters of the commercial
attachés in Europe, except those at Paris and Constantinople, were transferred to London, without
defined districts, in 1907 (see Report on the System of British Commercial Attachés and Agents,
1908, Cd. 3610). "Pro-consuls" are frequently appointed for the purpose of administering oaths,
taking affidavits or affirmations, and performing notarial acts under the Commissioners for
Oaths Acts 1889.

The position of the United States consuls is minutely described in the Regulations, Washington,
1896. Under various treaties and conventions they enjoy large privileges and jurisdiction.
By the treaty of 1816 with Sweden the United States government agreed that the consuls of the
two states respectively should be sole judges in disputes between captains and crews of vessels.
(Up to 1906 there were eighteen treaties containing this clause.) By convention with France
in 1853 they likewise agreed that the consuls of both countries should be permitted to hold
real estate, and to have the "police interne des navires à commerce." In Borneo, China, Korea,
Morocco, Persia, Siam, Tripoli and Turkey an extensive jurisdiction, civil and criminal, is
exercised by treaty stipulation in cases where United States subjects are interested. Exemption
from liability to appear as a witness is often stipulated. The question was raised in France
in 1843 by the case of the Spanish consul Soller at Aix, and in America in 1854 by the case
of Dillon, the French consul at San Francisco, who, on being arrested by Judge Hoffmann for
declining to give evidence in a criminal suit, pulled down his consular flag. So, also, inviolability
of national archives is often stipulated. To the consuls of other nations the United States
government have always accorded the privileges of arresting deserters, and of being themselves
amenable only to the Federal and not to the States courts. They also recognize foreign consuls
as representative suitors for absent foreigners.

The United States commercial agents are appointed by the president, and usually receive an
exequatur. They form a class by themselves, and are distinct from the consular agents, who
are simply deputy consuls in districts where there is no principal consul.

By a law of April 1906 the U.S. consular service was reorganized and graded, the office of
consul-general being divided into seven classes, and that of consul into nine classes; and
on June 27 an executive order was issued by President Roosevelt governing appointments and
promotions.

   See A. de Miltitz, Manuel des consuls (London and Berlin,
   1837-1843); Baron Ferdinand de Cussy, Dictionnaire du diplomate et
   du consul (Leipzig, 1846), and Réglements consulaires des
   principaux états maritimes de l`Europe et de l`Amérique (ib., 1851);
   Tuson, British Consul's Manual (London, 1856); De Clercq, Guide
   pratique des consulats (1st ed., 1858, 5th ed. by de Vallat, Paris,
   1898); C. J. Tarring, British Consular Jurisdiction in the East
   (London, 1887); Lippmann, Die Konsularjurisdiktion im Orient
   (Berlin, 1898); Zorn, Die Konsulargesetzgebung des deutschen Reichs
   (2nd ed., Berlin, 1901); v. König, Handbuch des deutschen
   Konsularwesens (6th ed., Berlin, 1902); Martens, Das deutsche
   Konsular-und Kolonialrecht (Leipzig, 1904); Malfatti di Monte
   Tretto, Handbuch des österreichischungarischen Konsularwesens (2
   vols., 2nd ed., Vienna, 1904). See also the Parliamentary Reports
   referred to in the text. For British consuls much detailed
   information, including, e.g., minute directions for the uniforms of
   the various grades, will be found in the official Foreign Office
   List published annually. As regards American consuls, see C. L.
   Jones, The Consular Service of the U. S. A. (Philadelphia, 1906);
   Publications of Univ. of Pennsylvania, "Series in Pol. Econ. and
   Public Law," No. 18; and Fred. Van Dyne, Our Foreign Service
   (Rochester, N.Y., 1909).

FOOTNOTES:

  [3] The title of consul was borne by the chief municipal officers of
    several cities of the south of France during the middle ages and up
    to the Revolution. The name was not due to their being the
    successors of the chiefs of the Roman municipia. They were members
    of the governing body known as the consulat, and in Latin
    documents are sometimes styled consiliarii, i.e. councillors. The
    consulat itself is not traceable beyond the 12th century.

  [2] Particular quarters of mercantile cities were assigned to
    foreign traders and were placed under the jurisdiction of their own
    magistrates, variously styled syndics, provosts (praepositi),
    échevins (scabini), &c., who had power to fine or to expel from
    the quarter. The Hanseatic League (q.v.), particularly, had numerous
    settlements of this kind, the earliest being the Steelyard at
    London, established in the 13th century.

  [3] i.e. as regards the organization of the system. Consuls, or
    consuls-general, of other countries have sometimes a diplomatic or
    quasi-diplomatic status. Consuls-general chargés d'affaires, e.g.,
    rank as diplomatic agents. Of these the most notable is the British
    agent and consul-general in Egypt, whose position is unique. The
    diplomatic agent of Belgium at Buenos Aires, e.g., is
    minister-resident and consul-general, and the minister of Ecuador in
    London is consul-general chargé d'affaires.

  [4] See also instructions to consuls prepared by the Board of Trade
    and approved by the secretary of state for foreign affairs.

"CONSULATE OF THE SEA," a celebrated collection of maritime customs and ordinances (see also
Sea Laws) in the Catalan language, published at Barcelona in the latter part of the 15th century.
Its proper title is The Book of the Consulate, or in Catalan, Lo Libre de Consolat, the name
being derived from the fact that it embodied the rules of law followed in the maritime cities
of the Mediterranean coast by the commercial judges known generally as consuls (q.v.). The
earliest extant edition of the work, which was printed at Barcelona in 1494, is without a title-page
or frontispiece, but it is described by the above-mentioned title in the epistle dedicatory
prefixed to the table of contents. The only known copy of this edition is preserved in the
National Library in Paris. The epistle dedicatory states that the work is an amended version
of the Book of the Consulate, compiled by Francis Celelles with the assistance of numerous
shipmasters and merchants well versed in maritime affairs. According to a statement made by
Capmany in his Codigo de los costumbras maritimas de Barcelona, published at Madrid in 1791,
there was extant to his knowledge in the last century a more ancient edition of the Book of
the Consulate, printed in semi-Gothic characters, which he believed to be of a date prior to
1484. This is the earliest period to which any historical record of the Book of the Consulate
being in print can be traced back. There are, however, two Catalan MSS. preserved in the National
Library in Paris, the earliest of which, being MS. Espagnol 124, contains the two first treatises
which are printed in the Book of the Consulate of 1494, and which are the most ancient portion
of its contents, written in a hand of the 14th century, on paper of that century. The subsequent
parts of this MS. are on paper of the 15th century, but there is no document of a date more
recent than 1436. The later of the two MSS., being MS. Espagnol 56, is written throughout on
paper of the 15th century, and in a hand of that century, and it purports, from a certificate
on the face of the last leaf, to have been executed under the superintendence of Peter Thomas,
a notary public, and the scribe of the Consulate of the Sea at Barcelona.

The edition of 1494, which is justly regarded as the editio princeps of the Book of the Consulate,
contains, in the first place, a code of procedure issued by the kings of Aragon for the guidance
of the courts of the consuls of the sea, in the second place, a collection of ancient customs
of the sea, and thirdly, a body of ordinances for the government of cruisers of war. A colophon
at the end of these ordinances informs the readers that "the book commonly called the Book
of the Consulate ends here"; after which there follows a document known by the title of The
Acceptations, which purports to record that the previous chapters and ordinances had been approved
by the Roman people in the 11th century, and by various princes and peoples in the 12th and
13th centuries. Capmany was the first person to question the authenticity of this document
in his Memorias historicas sobre la marina, &c., de Barcelona, published at Madrid in 1779-1792.
Pardessus and other writers on maritime law followed up the inquiry in the 19th century, and
have conclusively shown that the document, whatever may have been its origin, has no proper
reference to the Book of the Consulate, and is, in fact, of no historical value whatsoever.
The paging of the edition of 1494 ceases with this document, at the end of which is the printer's
colophon, reciting that "the work was completed on the 14th of July 1494, at Barcelona, by
Père Posa, priest and printer." The remainder of the volume consists of what may be regarded
as an appendix to the original Book of the Consulate. This appendix contains various maritime
ordinances of the kings of Aragon and of the councillors of the city of Barcelona, ranging
over a period from 1340 to 1484. It is printed apparently in the same type with the preceding
part of the volume. The original Book of the Consulate, coupled with this appendix, constitutes
the work which has obtained general circulation in Europe under the title of The Consulate
of the Sea, and which in the course of the 16th century was translated into the Castilian,
the Italian, and the French languages. The Italian translation, printed at Venice in 1549 by
Jean Baptista Pedrezano, was the version which obtained the largest circulation in the north
of Europe, and led many jurists to suppose the work to have been of Italian origin. In the
next following century the work was translated into Dutch by Westerven, and into German by
Engelbrecht, and it is also said to have been translated into Latin.

   An excellent translation into French of "The Customs of the Sea,"
   which are the most valuable portion of the Book of the Consulate,
   was published by Pardessus in the second volume of his Collection
   des lois maritimes (Paris, 1834), under the title of "La Compilation
   connue sous le nom de consulat de la mer." See introduction, by Sir
   Travers Twiss, to the Black Book of the Admiralty (London, 1874),
   which in the appendix to vol. iii. contains his translation of "The
   Customs of the Sea," with the Catalan text.     (T. T.)

CONSUMPTION (Lat. consumere), literally, the act of consuming or destroying. Thus the word
is popularly applied to phthisis, a "wasting away" of the lungs due to tuberculosis (q.v.).
In economics the word has a special significance as a technical term. It has been defined as
the destruction of utilities, and thus opposed to "production," which is the creation of utilities,
a utility in this connexion being anything which satisfies a desire or serves a purpose. Consumption
may be either productive or unproductive; productive where it is a means directly or indirectly
to the satisfaction of any economic want, unproductive when it is devoted to pleasures or luxuries.
Its place in the science of economics, and its close relation with production, are treated
of in every text-book, but special reference may be made to W. Roscher, Nationalökonomie, 1883,
and G. Schönberg, Handbuch d. polit. Ökonomie, 1890-1891.

CONSUS, an ancient Italian deity, originally a god of agriculture. The time at which his festival
was held (after harvest and seed-sowing), the nature of its ceremonies and amusements, his
altar at the end of the Circus Maximus always covered with earth except on such occasions,
all point to his connexion with the earth. In accordance with this, the name has been derived
from condere (= Condius, as the "keeper" of grain or the "hidden" god, whose life-producing
influence works in the depths of the earth). Another etymology is from conserere ("sow," cf.
Ops Consiva and her festival Opiconsivia). Amongst the ancients (Livy i. 9; Dion. Halic. ii.
31) Census was most commonly identified with [Greek: Poseidôn Hippios] (Neptunus Equester),
and in later Latin poets Consus is used for Neptunus, but this idea was due to the horse and
chariot races which took place at his festival; otherwise, the two deities have nothing in
common. According to another view, he was the god of good counsel, who was said to have "advised"
Romulus to carry off the Sabine women (Ovid, Fasti, iii. 199) when they visited Rome for the
first celebration of his festival (Consualia). In later times, with the introduction of Greek
gods into the Roman theological system, Consus, who had never been the object of special reverence,
sank to the level of a secondary deity, whose character was rather abstract and intellectual.

His festival was celebrated on the of August and the 15th of December. On the former date,
the flamen Quirinalis, assisted by the vestals, offered sacrifice, and the pontifices presided
at horse and chariot races in the circus. It was a day of public rejoicing; all kinds of rustic
amusements took place, amongst them running on ox-hides rubbed with oil (like the Gr. [Greek:
haskoliasmos]). Horses and mules, crowned with garlands, were given rest from work. A special
feature of the games in the circus was chariot racing, in which mules, as the oldest draught
beasts, took the place of horses. The origin of these games was generally attributed to Romulus;
but by some they were considered an imitation of the Arcadian [Greek: hippokrateia] introduced
by Evander. There was a sanctuary of Consus on the Aventine, dedicated by L. Papirius Cursor
in 272, in early times wrongly identified with the altar in the circus.

   See W. W. Fowler, The Roman Festivals (1899); G. Wissowa, Religion
   und Kultus der Römer (1902); Preller-Jordan, Römische Mythologie
   (1881).

CONTANGO, a Stock Exchange term for the rate of interest paid by a "bull" who has bought stock
for the rise and does not intend to pay for it when the Settlement arrives. He arranges to
carry over or continue his bargain, and does so by entering into a fresh bargain with his seller,
or some other party, by which he sells the stock for the Settlement and buys it again for the
next, the price at which the bargain is entered being called the making-up price. The rate
that he pays for this accommodation, which amounts to borrowing the money involved until the
next Settlement, is called the contango.

CONTARINI, the name of a distinguished Venetian family, who gave to the republic eight doges
and many other eminent citizens. The story of their descent from the Roman family of Cotta,
appointed prefects of the Reno valley (whence Cotta Reni or Conti del Reno), is probably a
legend. One Mario Contarini was among the twelve electors of the doge Paulo Lucio Anafesto
in 697. Domenico Contarini, elected doge in 1043, subjugated rebellious Dalmatia and recaptured
Grado from the patriarch of Aquileia. He died in 1070. Jacopo was doge from 1275 to 1280. Andrea
was elected doge in 1367, and during his reign the war of Chioggia took place (1380); he was
the first to melt down his plate and mortgage his property for the benefit of the state. Other
Contarini doges were: Francesco (1623-1624), Niccolò (1630-1631), who built the church of the
Salute, Carlo (1655-1656), during whose reign the Venetians gained the naval victory of the
Dardanelles, Domenico (1659-1675) and Alvise (1676-1684). There were at one time no less than
eighteen branches of the family; one of the most important was that of Contarini dallo Zaffo
or di Giaffa, who had been invested with the countship of Jaffa in Syria for their services
to Caterina Cornaro, queen of Cyprus; another was that of Contarini degli Scrigni (of the coffers),
so called on account of their great wealth. Many members of the family distinguished themselves
in the service of the republic, in the wars against the Turks, and no less than seven Contarini
fought at Lepanto. One Andrea Contarini was beheaded in 1430 for having wounded the doge Francesco
Foscari (q.v.) on the nose. Other members of the house were famous as merchants, prelates and
men of letters; among these we may mention Cardinal Gasparo Contarini (1483-1542), and Marco
Contarini (1631-1689), who was celebrated as a patron of music and collected at his villa of
Piazzola a large number of valuable musical MSS., now in the Marciana library at Venice. The
family owned many palaces in various parts of Venice, and several streets still bear its name.

   See J. Fontana, "Sulla patrizia famiglia Contarini," in Il
   Gondoliere (1843).     (L. V.*)

CONTAT, LOUISE FRANÇOISE (1760-1813), French actress, made her début at the Comédie Française
in 1766 as Atalide in Bajazet. It was in comedy, however, that she made her first success,
as Suzanne in Beaumarchais's Mariage de Figaro; and in several minor character parts, which
she raised to the first importance, and as the soubrette in the plays of Molière and Marivaux,
she found opportunities exactly fitted to her talents. She retired in 1809 and married de Parny,
nephew of the poet. Her sister Marie Émilie Contat (1769-1846), an admirable soubrette, especially
as the pert servant drawn by Molière and de Regnard, made her début in 1784, and retired in 1815.

CONTE, literally a "story," derived from the Fr. conter, to narrate, through low Lat. and Provençal
forms contare and comtar. This word, although not recognized by the New English Dictionary
as an English term, is yet so frequently used in English literary criticisms that some definition
of it seems to be demanded. A conte, in French, differs from a récit or a rapport in the element
of style; it may be described as an anecdote told with deliberate art, and in this introduction
of art lies its peculiar literary value. According to Littré, there is no fundamental difference
between a conte and a roman, and all that can be said is that the conte is the generic term,
covering long stories and short alike, whereas the roman (or novel) must extend to a certain
length. But if this is the primitive and correct signification of the word, it is certain that
modern criticism thinks of a conte essentially as a short story, and as a short story exclusively
occupied in illustrating one set of ideas or one disposition of character. As early as the
13th century, the word is used in French literature to describe an anecdote thus briefly and
artistically told, in prose or verse. The fairy-tales of Perrault and the apologues of La Fontaine
were alike spoken of as contes, and stories of peculiar extravagance were known as contes bleus,
because they were issued to the common public in coarse blue paper covers. The most famous
contes in the 18th century were those of Voltaire, who has been described as having invented
the conte philosophique. But those brilliant stories, Candide, Zadig, L'Ingénu, La Princess
de Babylone and Le Taureau blanc, are not, in the modern sense, contes at all. The longer of
these are romans, the shorter nouvelles, not one has the anecdotical unity required by a conte.
The same may be said of those of Marmontel, and of the insipid imitations of Oriental fancy
which were so popular at the close of the 18th century. The most perfect recent writer of contes
is certainly Guy de Maupassant, and his celebrated anecdote called "Boule de suif" may be taken
as an absolutely perfect example of this class of literature, the precise limitations of which
it is difficult to define.     (E. G.)

CONTÉ, NICOLAS JACQUES (1755-1805), French mechanical genius, chemist and painter, was born
at Aunou-sur-Orne, near Sées, on the 4th of August 1755, of a family of poor farm labourers.
At the age of fourteen he displayed precocious artistic talent in a series of religious panels,
remarkably fine in colour and composition, for the principal hospital of Sées, where he was
employed to help the gardener. With the advice of Greuze he took up portrait painting, quickly
became the fashion, and laid by in a few years a fair competency. From that time he gave free
rein to his passion for the mechanical arts and scientific studies. He attended the lectures
of J. A. C. Charles, L. N. Vaquelin and J. B. Leroy, and exhibited before the Academy of Science
an hydraulic machine of his own invention of which the model was the subject of a flattering
report, and was placed in Charles's collection. The events of the Revolution soon gave him
an opportunity for a further display of his inventive faculty. The war with England deprived
France of plumbago; he substituted for it an artificial substance obtained from a mixture of
graphite and clay, and took out a patent in 1795 for the form of pencil which still bears his
name. At this time he was associated with Monge and Berthollet in experiments in connexion
with the inflation of military balloons, was conducting the school for that department of the
engineer corps at Meudon, was perfecting the methods of producing hydrogen in quantity, and
was appointed (1796) by the Directory to the command of all the aerostatic establishments.
He was at the head of the newly created Conservatoire des arts et métiers, and occupied himself
with experiments in new compositions of permanent colours, and in 1798 constructed a metal-covered
barometer for measuring comparative heights, by observing the weight of mercury issuing from
the tube. Summoned by Bonaparte to take part as chief of the aerostatic corps in the expedition
to Egypt, he considerably extended his field of activity, and for three years and a half was,
to quote Berthollet, "the soul of the colony." The disaster of Aboukir and the revolt of Cairo
had caused the loss of the greater part of the instruments and munitions taken out by the French.
Conté, who, as Monge says, "had every science in his head and every art in his hands," and
whom the First Consul described as "good at everything," seemed to be everywhere at once and
triumphed over apparently insurmountable difficulties. He made, in an almost uncivilized country,
utensils, tools and machinery of every sort from simple windmills to stamps for minting coin.
Thanks to his activity and genius, the expedition was provided with bread, cloth, arms and
munitions of war; the engineers with the exact tools of their trade; the surgeons with operating
instruments. He made the designs, built the models, organized and supervised the manufacture,
and seemed to be able to invent immediately anything required. On his return to France in 1802
he was commissioned by the minister of the interior, Chaptal, to superintend the publication
of the great work of the commission on Egypt, and an engraving machine of his construction
materially shortened this task, which, however, he did not live to see finished. He died at
Paris on the 6th of December 1805. Napoleon had included him in his first promotions to the
Legion of Honour. A bronze statue was erected to his memory in 1852 at Sées, by public subscription.

CONTEMPT OF COURT, in English law, any disobedience or disrespect to the authority or privileges
of a legislative body, or interference with the administration of a court of justice.

1. The High Court of Parliament. Each of the two houses of Parliament has by the law and custom
of parliament power to protect its freedom, dignity and authority against insult, disregard
or violence by resort to its own process and not to ordinary courts of law and without having
its process interfered with by those courts. The nature and limits of this authority to punish
for contempt have been the subject of not infrequent conflict with the courts of law, from
the time when Lord Chief Justice Holt threatened to commit the speaker for attempting to stop
the trial of Ashby v. White (1701), as a breach of privilege, to the cases of Burdett v. Abbott
(1810), Stockdale v. Hansard and Howard v. Gosset (1842, 1843), and Bradlaugh v. Gosset (1834).
It is now the accepted view that the power of either House to punish contempt is exceptional
and derived from ancient usage, and does not flow from their being courts of record. Orders
for committal by the Commons are effectual only while the House sits; orders by the Lords may
be for a time specified, in which event prorogation does not operate as a discharge of the
offender. It was at one time considered that the privilege of committing for contempt was inherent
in every deliberative body invested with authority by the constitution, and consequently that
colonial legislative bodies had by the nature of their functions the power to commit for contempt.
But in Kielley v. Carson (1843; 4 Moore, P.C. 63) it was held that the power belonged to parliament
by ancient usage only and not on the theory above stated, and in each colony it is necessary
to inquire how far the colonial legislature has acquired, by order in council or charter or
from the imperial legislature, power to punish breach of privilege by imprisonment or committal
for contempt. This power has in some cases been given directly, in others by authority to make
laws and regulations under sanctions like those enforced by the Houses of the imperial parliament.
In the case of Nova Scotia the provincial assembly has power to give itself by statute authority
to commit for contempt (Fielding v. Thomas, 1896; L.R.A.C. 600). In Barton v. Taylor (1886;
11 A.C. 197) the competence of the legislative assembly of New South Wales to make standing
orders punishing contempt was recognized to exist under the colonial constitution, but the
particular standing orders under consideration are held not to cover the acts which had been
punished. (See May, Parl. Pr., 10th ed., 1896; Anson, Law and Custom of the Constitution, 3rd
ed., 1897.)

2. Courts of Justice. The term contempt of court, when used with reference to the courts or
persons to whom the exercise of the judicial functions of the crown has been delegated, means
insult offered to such court or person by deliberate defiance of its authority, disobedience
to its orders, interruption of its proceedings or interference with the due course of justice,
or any conduct calculated or tending to bring the authority or administration of the law into
disrespect or disregard, or to interfere with or prejudice parties or witnesses during the
litigation. The ingenuity of the judges and of those who are concerned to defeat or defy justice
have rendered contempt almost Protean in its character. But for practical purposes most, if
not all, contempts fall within the classification which follows:--

(a) Disobedience to the judgment or order of a court commanding the doing or abstaining from
a particular act, e.g. an order to execute a conveyance of property or an order on a person
in a fiduciary capacity to pay into court trust moneys as to which he is an accounting party.
This includes disobedience by the members of a local authority to a mandamus to do some act
which they are by law bound to do; and proceedings for contempt have been taken in the case
of guardians of the poor who have refused to enforce the Vaccination Acts, e.g. at Keighley
and Leicester, and of town councillors who have refused to comply with an order to take specified
measures to drain their borough (e.g. Worcester). This process for compelling obedience is
in substance a process of civil execution for the benefit of the injured party rather than
a criminal process for punishing the disobedience; and for purposes of appeal orders dealing
with these forms of contempt have hitherto been treated as civil proceedings.

(b) Disobedience by inferior judges or magistrates to the lawful order of a superior court.
Such disobedience, if amounting to wilful misconduct, would usually give ground for amotion
or removal from office, or for prosecution or indictment or information for misconduct (Archbold,
Criminal Pleading, 147, 23rd ed.).

(c) Disobedience or misconduct by executive officers of the law, e.g. sheriffs and their bailiffs
or gaolers. The contempt consists in not complying with the terms of writs or warrants sent
for execution. For instance, a judge of assize having ordered the court to be cleared on account
of some disturbance, the high sheriff issued a placard protesting against "this unlawful proceeding,"
and "prohibiting his officer from aiding and abetting any attempt to bar out the public from
free access to the court." The lord chief justice of England, sitting in the other court, summoned
the sheriff before him and fined him £500 for the contempt, and £500 more for persisting in
addressing the grand jury in court, after he had been ordered to desist. A sheriff who fails
to attend the assizes is liable to severe fine as being in contempt (Oswald, 51). And in Harvey's
case (1884, 26 Ch. D. 644) steps were taken to attach a sheriff who had failed to execute a
writ of attachment for contempt of court in the mistaken belief that he was not entitled to
break open doors to take the person in contempt. The Sheriffs Act 1887 enumerates many instances
in which misconduct is punishable under that act, but reserves to superior courts of record
power to deal with such misconduct as a contempt (s. 29).

(d) Misconduct or neglect of duty by subordinate officials of courts of justice, including
solicitors. In these cases it is more usual for the superior authorities to remove the offender
from office, or for disciplinary proceedings to be instituted by the Law Society. But in the
case of an unqualified person assuming to act as a solicitor or in the case of breach of an
undertaking given by a solicitor to the court, proceedings for contempt are still taken.

(e) Misconduct by parties, jurors or witnesses. Jurors who fail to attend in obedience to a
jury summons and witnesses who fail to attend on subpoena are liable to punishment for contempt,
and parties, counsel or solicitors who practise a fraud on the court are similarly liable.

(f) Contempt in facie curiae. "Some contempts," says Blackstone, "may arise in the face of
the court, as by rude and contumelious behaviour, by obstinacy, perverseness or prevarication,
by breach of the peace, or any wilful disturbance whatever"; in other words, direct insult
to or interference with a sitting court is treated as contempt of the court. It is immaterial
whether the offender is juror, party, witness, counsel, solicitor or a stranger to the case
at hearing, and occasionally it is found necessary to punish for contempt persons under trial
for felony or misdemeanour if by violent language or conduct they interrupt the proceedings
at their trial. Judges have even treated as contempt the continuance outside the court-house
after warning of a noise sufficient to disturb the proceedings of the court; and in Victoria
Chief Justice Higginbotham committed for contempt a builder who persisted after warning in
building operations close to the central criminal court in Melbourne, which interfered with
the due conduct of the business of the sittings.

(g) Attempts to prevent or interfere with the due course of justice, whether made by a person
interested in a particular case or by an outsider. This branch of contempt takes many forms,
such as frauds on the court by justices, solicitors or counsel (e.g. by fraudulently circularizing
shareholders of a company against which a winding-up petition had been filed), tampering with
witnesses by inducing them through threats or persuasion not to attend or to withhold evidence
or to commit perjury, threatening judge or jury or attempting to bribe them and the like; and
also by "scandalizing the court itself" by abusing the parties concerned in a pending case,
or by creating prejudice against such persons before their cause is heard.

  Invectives against judges.

The locus classicus on the subject of contempt by attacks on judges is a judgment prepared
by Sir Eardley-Wilmot in the case of an application for an attachment against J. Almon in 1765,
for publishing a pamphlet libelling the court of king's bench. The judgment was not actually
delivered as the case was settled, but has long been accepted as correctly stating the law.
Sir Eardley-Wilmot said that the offence of libelling judges in their judicial capacity is
the most proper case for an attachment, for the "arraignment of the justice of the judges is
arraigning the king's justice; it is an impeachment of his wisdom and goodness in the choice
of his judges; and excites in the minds of the people a general dissatisfaction with all judicial
determinations, and indisposes their minds to obey them. To be impartial, and to be universally
thought so, are both absolutely necessary for the giving justice that free, open and uninterrupted
current which it has for many ages found all over this kingdom, and which so eminently distinguishes
and exalts it above all nations upon the earth." Again, "the constitution has provided very
apt and proper remedies for correcting and rectifying the involuntary mistakes of judges, and
for punishing and removing them for any perversion of justice. But if their authority is to
be trampled on by pamphleteers and news-writers, and the people are to be told that the power
given to the judges for their protection is prostituted to their destruction, the court may
retain its power some little time, but I am sure it will eventually lose all its authority."

The object of the discipline enforced by the court by proceedings for contempt of court is
not now, if it ever was, to vindicate the personal dignity of the judges or to protect them
from insult as individuals, but to vindicate the dignity and authority of the court itself
and to prevent acts tending to obstruct the due course of justice. The question whether a personal
invective against judges should be dealt with brevi manu by the court attacked, or by proceedings
at the instance of the attorney-general by information or indictment for a libel on the administration
of justice or on the judge attacked, or should be dealt with by a civil action for damages,
depends on the nature and occasion of the attack on the judge.

There has at times been a disposition by judges in colonial courts to use the process of the
court to punish criticisms on their acts by counsel or parties or even outsiders, which the
privy council has been prone to discourage. For instance in a Nova Scotia case a barrister
was suspended from practice for writing to the chief justice of the province a letter relating
to a case in which the barrister was suitor. The privy council while considering the letter
technically a contempt, held the punishment inappropriate. In Macleod v. St Aubyn (1899, A.C.
549) it was said that proceedings for scandalizing the court itself were obsolete in England.
But in 1900 the king's bench division, following the Almon case, summarily punished a scurrilous
personal attack on a judge of assize with reference to his remarks in a concluded ease, published
immediately after the conclusion of the case (R. v. Gray, 1900, 2 Q.B. 36). The same measure
may be meted out to those who publish invectives against judges or juries with the object of
creating suspicion or contempt as to the administration of justice. But the existence of this
power does not militate against the right of the press to publish full reports of trials and
judgments or to make with fairness, good faith, candour and decency, comments and criticisms
on what passed at the trial and on the correctness of the verdict or the judgment. To impute
corruption is said to go beyond the limits of fair criticism. Shortt (Law relating to Works
of Literature) states the law to be that the temperate and respectful discussion of judicial
determination is not prohibited, but mere invective and abuse, and still more the imputation
of false, corrupt and dishonest motives is punishable. In an information granted in 1788 against
the corporation of Yarmouth for having entered upon their books an order "stating that the
assembly were sensible that Mr W. (against whom an action had been brought for malicious prosecution,
and a verdict for £3000 returned, which the court refused to disturb) was actuated by motives
of public justice, of preserving the rights of the corporation to their admiralty jurisdiction,
and of supporting the honour and credit of the chief magistrate," Mr Justice Butler said, "The
judge and jury who tried the case, confirmed by the court of common pleas, have said that instead
of his having been actuated by motives of public justice, or by any motives which should influence
the actions of an honest man, he had been actuated by malice. These opinions are not reconcilable;
if the one be right the other must be wrong. It is therefore a direct insinuation that the
court had judged wrong in all they have done in this case, and is therefore clearly a libel
on the administration of justice."

The exact limits of the power to punish for contempt of court in respect of statements or comments
on the action of judges and juries, or with reference to pending proceedings, have been the
subject of some controversy, owing to the difficulty of reconciling the claims of the press
to liberty and of the public to free discussion of the proceedings of courts of justice with
the claims of the judges to due respect and of the parties to litigation that their causes
should not be prejudiced before trial by outside interference. As the law now stands it is
permissible to publish contemporaneous reports of the proceedings in cases pending in any court
(Law of Libel Amendment Act 1888, s. 3), unless the proceedings have taken place in private
(in camera), or the court has in the interests of justice prohibited any report until the case
is concluded, a course now rarely, if ever, adopted. But it is not permissible to make any
comments on a pending case calculated to interfere with the due course of justice in the case,
nor to publish statements about the cause or the parties calculated to have that effect. This
rule applies even when the case has been tried and the jury has disagreed if a second trial
is in prospect. Applications are frequently made to commit proprietors and editors who comment
too freely or who undertake the task of trying in their newspapers a pending case. The courts
are now slow to move unless satisfied that the statements or comments may seriously affect
the course of justice, e.g. by reaching the jurors who have to try the case.

The difference between pending and decided cases has been frequently recognized by the courts.
What would be a fair comment in a decided case may tend to influence the mind of the judge
or the jury in a case waiting to be heard, and will accordingly be punished as a contempt.
In Tichborne v. Mostyn the publisher of a newspaper was held to have committed a contempt by
printing in his paper extracts from affidavits in a pending suit, with comments upon them.
In the case of R. v. Castro it was held that after a true bill has been found, and the indictment
removed into the court of queen's bench, and a day fixed for trial, the case was pending; and
it was a contempt of court to address public meetings, alleging that the defendant was not
guilty, that there was a conspiracy against the defendant, and that he could not have a fair
trial; and the court ordered the parties to answer for their contempt. In the case of the Moat
Farm murder (1903) the high court punished as contempt a series of articles published in a
newspaper while the preliminary inquiry was proceeding and before the case went to a jury (R.
v. Parker, 1903, 2 K.B. 432). The like course was followed in 1905 in the case of statements
made in a Welsh newspaper about a woman awaiting trial for attempted murder (R. v. Davies,
1906, 1 K.B. 32); and in the case of the Weekly Dispatch in 1902 (R. v. Tibbits and Windust,
1 K.B. 77), two journalists were tried on indictment, and held to have been rightly convicted,
for conspiring to prevent the course of justice by publishing matter calculated to interfere
with the fair trial of persons who were under accusation.

  Courts having jurisdiction.

"In the superior courts the power of committing for contempt is inherent in their constitution,
has been coeval with their original institution and has been always exercised" (Oswald, On
Contempt, 3). The high court in which these courts are merged is the only court which has a
general jurisdiction to deal summarily with all forms of contempt. Each division of that court
deals with the particular contempts arising with reference to proceedings before the division;
but the king's bench division, in the exercise of the supervisory authority inherited from
the old court of king's bench as custos morum, also from time to time deals with acts constituting
interference with justice in other inferior courts whether of record or not. The nature and
limits of this jurisdiction after much discussion have been defined by decisions in 1903 and
1905 in attempts to try by newspapers cases under inquiry by justices or awaiting trial at
assizes or quarter sessions. The exercise of this authority in the king's bench division, being
in a criminal cause or matter, is not the subject of appeal to any higher court.

Inferior courts of record have, as a general rule, power to punish only those contempts which
are committed in facie curiae or consist in disobedience to the lawful orders or judgments
of the court. For instance, a county court may summarily punish persons who insult the judge
or any officer of the court or any juror or witness, or wilfully interrupt the proceedings,
or misbehave in the court-house (County Court Act 1888, s. 162), and may also attack persons
who having means refuse to comply with an order to pay money, or refuse to comply with an order
to deliver up a specific chattel or disobey an injunction. A court of quarter sessions has
at common law a like power as to contempts in facie curiae and is said to have power to punish
its officials for contempt in non-attendance or neglect of duty.

  Punishment.

Contempt of court is a misdemeanour and is punishable by fine and imprisonment or either at
discretion. The offence may be tried summarily, or may be prosecuted on information or on indictment
as was done in the case of the Weekly Dispatch already mentioned. The prerogative of pardon
extends to all contempts of court which are dealt with by a sentence of clearly punitive character;
but it is doubtful whether it extends to committals for disobedience to orders made in aid
of the execution of a civil judgment.

Contempt is usually dealt with summarily by the court contemned in the case of contempt in
facie curiae. The offender may be instantly apprehended and without further proof or examination
fined or sent to prison. In the case of other contempts the High Court not only can deal with
contempts affecting itself, but can also intervene summarily to protect inferior courts from
contempts. This jurisdiction was asserted and exercised in the Moat Farm case (1903) and the
South Wales Post case (1905) already mentioned.

Except in cases of contempt in facie curiae evidence on oath as to the alleged contempt must
be laid before the court, and application made for the "committal" or "attachment" of the offender.
The differences between the two modes are technical rather than substantial.

The procedure for dealing with contempt of court varies somewhat according as the contempt
consists in disobeying an order of the High Court made in a civil cause, or consists in interference
with the course of justice by persons not present in court nor parties to the cause. In the
first class of cases the court proceeds by order of committal or giving leave to issue writ
of attachment. In either case the person said to be in contempt must have full notice of the
proposed motion and of the grounds on which he is said to be in contempt; and the rules regulating
such proceedings must be strictly complied with (R. v. Tuck, 1906, 2 Ch. 692). In proceedings
on the crown side of the king's bench division it is still usual to apply in the first place
for a rule nisi for leave to attach the alleged offender who is given an opportunity of explaining,
excusing or justifying the incriminated acts. It is essential that before punishment the alleged
offender should have had full notice as to the specific offence charged and opportunity of
answering to it. The king's bench procedure is that generally used for interference with the
due course of criminal justice or disobedience to prerogative writs such as mandamus.

An order of committal is an order in execution specifying the nature of the detention to be
suffered, or the penalty to be paid. The process of attachment merely brings the accused into
court; he is then required to answer on oath interrogatories administered to him, so that the
court may be better informed of the circumstances of the contempt. If he can clear himself
on oath he is discharged; if he confesses the court will punish him by fine or imprisonment,
or both, at its discretion. But in very many cases on proper apology and submission, and undertaking
not to repeat the contempt, and payment of costs, the court allows the proceedings to drop
without proceeding to fine or imprison.

From time to time proposals have been made to deprive the superior courts of the power to deal
summarily with contempts not committed in facie curiae, and to require proceedings on other
charges for contempt to go before a jury. This distinction has already been made in some British
colonies, e.g. British Guiana, by an ordinance of 1900 (No. 31). Recent decisions in England
have so fully defined the limits of the offence and declared the practice of the courts that
it would probably only result in undue licence of the press if the power now carefully and
judicially exercised of dealing summarily with journalistic interference with the ordinary
course of justice were taken away and the delay involved in submitting the case to a jury were
made inevitable. The courts now only act in clear cases, and in cases of doubt can always send
the question to a jury. The experience of other countries makes it undesirable to part with
the summary remedy so long as it is in the hands of a trusted judicature.

   Scotland.--In Scotland the courts of session and justiciary have,
   at common law, and exercise the power of punishing contempt committed
   during a judicial proceeding by censure, fine or imprisonment
   proprio motu without formal proceedings or a summary complaint. The
   nature of the offence is there in substance the same as in England
   (see Petrie, 1889: 7 Rettie Justiciary 3; Smith, 1892: 20 Rettie
   Justiciary 52).

   Ireland.--In Ireland the law of contempt is on the same lines as in
   England, but conflicts have arisen between the bench and popular
   opinion, due to political and religious differences, which have led
   to proposals for making juries and not judges arbiters in cases of
   contempt.

   British Dominions beyond Seas.--The courts of most British
   possessions have acquired and freely exercise the power of the court
   of king's bench to deal summarily with contempt of court; and, as
   already stated, it is not infrequently the duty of the privy council
   to restrain too exuberant a vindication of the offended dignity of a
   colonial court.     (W. F. C.)

CONTI, PRINCES OF. The title of prince of Conti, assumed by a younger branch of the house of
Condé, was taken from Conti-sur-Selles, a small town about 20 m. S.W. of Amiens, which came
into the Condé family by the marriage of Louis of Bourbon, first prince of Condé, with Eleanor
de Roye in 1551.

FRANÇOIS (1558-1614), the third son of this marriage, was given the title of marquis de Conti,
and between 1581 and 1597 was elevated to the rank of a prince. Conti, who belonged to the
older faith, appears to have taken no part in the wars of religion until 1587, when his distrust
of Henry, third duke of Guise, caused him to declare against the League, and to support Henry
of Navarre, afterwards King Henry IV. of France. In 1589 after the murder of Henry III., king
of France, he was one of the two princes of the blood who signed the declaration recognizing
Henry IV. as king, and he continued to support Henry, although on the death of Charles cardinal
de Bourbon in 1590 he himself was mentioned as a candidate for the throne. In 1605 Conti, whose
first wife Jeanne de Cöeme, heiress of Bonnétable, had died in 1601, married the beautiful
and witty Louise Marguerite (1574-1631), daughter of Henry duke of Guise and Catherine of Cleves,
whom, but for the influence of his mistress Gabrielle d'Estrées, Henry IV. would have made
his queen. Conti died in 1614. His only child Marie having predeceased him in 1610, the title
lapsed. His widow followed the fortunes of Marie de' Medici, from whom she received many marks
of favour, and was secretly married to François de Bassompierre (q.v.), who joined her in conspiring
against Cardinal Richelieu. Upon the exposure of the plot the cardinal exiled her to her estate
at Eu, near Amiens, where she died. The princess wrote Aventures de la cour de Perse, in which,
under the veil of fictitious scenes and names, she tells the history of her own time.

In 1629 the title of prince de Conti was revived in favour of ARMAND DE BOURBON (1629-1666),
second son of Henry II. of Bourbon, prince of Condé, and brother of Louis, the great Condé.
He was destined for the church and studied theology at the university of Bourges, but although
he received several benefices he did not take orders. He played a conspicuous part in the intrigues
and fighting of the Fronde, became in 1648 commander-in-chief of the rebel army, and in 1650
was with his brother Condé imprisoned at Vincennes. Released when Mazarin went into exile,
he wished to marry Mademoiselle de Chevreuse (1627-1652), daughter of the famous confidante
of Anne of Austria, but was prevented by his brother, who was now supreme in the state. He
was concerned in the Fronde of 1651, but soon afterwards became reconciled with Mazarin, and
in 1654 married the cardinal's niece, Anne Marie Martinozzi (1639-1672), and secured the government
of Guienne. He took command of the army which in 1654 invaded Catalonia, where he captured
three towns from the Spaniards. He afterwards led the French forces in Italy, but after his
defeat before Alessandria in 1657 retired to Languedoc, where he devoted himself to study and
mysticism until his death. At Clermont Conti had been a fellow student of Molière's for whom
he secured an introduction to the court of Louis XIV., but afterwards, when writing a treatise
against the stage entitled Traité de la comédie et des spectacles selon les traditions de l'Église
(Paris, 1667), he charged the dramatist with keeping a school of atheism. Conti also wrote
Lettres sur la grâce, and Du devoir des grands et des devoirs des gouverneurs de province.

LOUIS ARMAND DE BOURBON, prince de Conti (1661-1685), eldest son of the preceding, succeeded
his father in 1666, and in 1680 married Marie Anne, a daughter of Louis XIV. and Louise de
la Vallière. He served with distinction in Flanders in 1683, and against the wish of the king
went to Hungary, where he assisted the Imperialists to defeat the Turks at Gran in 1683. After
a dissolute life he died at Fontainebleau from smallpox.

FRANÇOIS LOUIS DE BOURBON, prince de Conti (1664-1709), younger brother of the preceding, was
known until 1685 as prince de la Roche-sur-Yon. Naturally of great ability, he received an
excellent education and was distinguished both for the independence of his mind and the popularity
of his manners. On this account he was not received with favour by Louis XIV.; so in 1683 he
assisted the Imperialists in Hungary, and while there he wrote some letters in which he referred
to Louis as le roi an théâtre, for which on his return to France he was temporarily banished
to Chantilly. Conti was a favourite of his uncle the great Condé, whose grand-daughter Marie
Thérese de Bourbon (1666-1732) he married in 1688. In 1689 he accompanied his intimate friend
Marshal Luxembourg to the Netherlands, and shared in the French victories at Fleurus, Steinkirk
and Neerwinden. On the death of his cousin, Jean Louis Charles, duc de Longueville (1646-1694),
Conti in accordance with his cousin's will, claimed the principality of Neuchâtel against Marie,
duchesse de Nemours (1625-1707), a sister of the duke. He failed to obtain military assistance
from the Swiss, and by the king's command yielded the disputed territory to Marie, although
the courts of law had decided in his favour. In 1697 Louis XIV. offered him the Polish crown,
and by means of bribes the abbé de Polignac secured his election. Conti started rather unwillingly
for his new kingdom, probably, as St Simon remarks, owing to his affection for Françoise, wife
of Philip II., duke of Orleans, and daughter of Louis XIV. and Madame de Montespan. When he
reached Danzig and found his rival Augustus II., elector of Saxony, already in possession of
the Polish crown, he returned to France, where he was graciously received by Louis, although
St Simon says the king was vexed to see him again. But the misfortunes of the French armies
during the earlier years of the war of the Spanish Succession compelled Louis to appoint Conti,
whose military renown stood very high, to command the troops in Italy. He fell ill before he
could take the field, and died on the 9th of February 1709, his death calling forth exceptional
signs of mourning from all classes.

LOUIS ARMAND DE BOURBON, prince de Conti (1606-1727), eldest son of the preceding, was treated
with great liberality by Louis XIV., and also by the regent, Philip duke of Orleans. He served
under Marshal Villars in the War of the Spanish Succession, but he lacked the soldierly qualities
of his father. In 1713 he married Louise Elisabeth (1693-1775), daughter of Louis Henri de
Bourbon, prince de Condé, and grand-daughter of Louis XIV. He was a prominent supporter of
the financial schemes of John Law, by which he made large sums of money. His services there
led to his appointment to command the army in Italy, where he distinguished himself by forcing
the pass of Villafranca and winning the battle of Coni in 1744. In 1745 he was sent to check
the Imperialists in Germany, and in 1746 was transferred to the Netherlands, where some jealousy
between Marshal Saxe and himself led to his retirement in 1747. In this year a faction among
the Polish nobles offered Conti the crown of that country, where owing to the feeble health
of King Augustus III. a vacancy was expected. He won the personal support of Louis XV. for
his candidature, although the policy of the French ministers was to establish the house of
Saxony in Poland, as the dauphiness was a daughter of Augustus. Louis therefore began secret
personal relations with his ambassadors in eastern Europe, who were thus receiving contradictory
instructions; a policy known later as the secret du roi. Although Conti did not secure the
Polish throne he remained in the confidence of Louis until 1755, when his influence was destroyed
by the intrigues of Madame de Pompadour; so that when the Seven Years' War broke out in 1756
he was refused the command of the army of the Rhine, and began the opposition to the administration
which caused Louis to refer to him as "my cousin the advocate." In 1771 he was prominent in
opposition to the chancellor Maupeou. He supported the parlements against the ministry, was
especially active in his hostility to Turgot, and was suspected of aiding a rising which took
place at Dijon in 1775. Conti, who died on the 2nd of August 1776, inherited literary tastes
from his father, was a brave and skilful general, and a diligent student of military history.
His house, over which the comtesse de Boufflers presided, was the resort of many men of letters,
and he was a patron of Jean Jacques Rousseau.

LOUIS FRANÇOIS JOSEPH, prince de Conti (1734-1814), son of the preceding, possessed considerable
talent as a soldier, and distinguished himself during the Seven Years' War. He took the side
of Maupeou in the struggle between the chancellor and the parlements, and in 1788 declared
that the integrity of the constitution must be maintained. He emigrated owing to the weakness
of Louis XVI., but refused to share in the plans for the invasion of France, and returned to
his native country in 1790. Arrested by order of the National Convention in 1793, he was acquitted,
but was reduced to poverty by the confiscation of his possessions. He afterwards received a
pension, but the Directory banished him from France, and as he refused to share in the plots
of the royalists he lived at Barcelona till his death in 1814, when the house of Conti became
extinct.

   See F. de Bassompierre, Mémoires (Paris, 1877); G. Tallemant des
   Reaux, Historiettes (Paris, 1854-1860); L. de R. duc de Saint
   Simon, Mémoires (Paris, 1873); C. E. duchesse d'Orleans, Mémoires
   (Paris, 1880); R. L. Marquis d'Argenson, Journal et mémoires
   (Paris, 1859-1865); F. J. de P. cardinal de Bérnis, Mémoires et
   lettres (Paris, 1878); J. V. A. duc de Broglie, Le Secret du roi
   (Paris, 1878); P. A. Cheruel, Histoire de la minorité de Louis XIV
   et du ministère de Mazarin (Paris, 1879); E. Boutaric,
   Correspondence secrète de Louis XV sur la politique étrangère
   (Paris, 1866); P. Foncin, Essai sur le ministère de Turgot (Paris,
   1877); E. Bourgeois Neuchâtel et la politique prussienne en
   Franche-Comté (Paris, 1877).

CONTI, NICOLO DE' (fl. 1419-1444), Venetian explorer and writer, was a merchant of noble family,
who left Venice about 1419, on what proved an absence of 25 years. We next find him in Damascus,
whence he made his way over the north Arabian desert, the Euphrates, and southern Mesopotamia,
to Bagdad. Here he took ship and sailed down the Tigris to Basra and the head of the Persian
Gulf; he next descended the gulf to Ormuz, coasted along the Indian Ocean shore of Persia (at
one port of which he remained some time, and entered into a business partnership with some
Persian merchants), and so reached the gulf and city of Cambay, where he began his Indian life
and observations. He next dropped down the west coast of India to Ely, and struck inland to
Vijayanagar, the capital of the principal Hindu state of the Deccan, destroyed in 1555. Of
this city Conti gives an elaborate description, one of the most interesting portions of his
narrative. From Vijayanagar and the Tungabudhra he travelled to Maliapur near Madras, the traditional
resting-place of the body of St Thomas, and the holiest shrine of the native Nestorian Christians,
then "scattered over all India," the Venetian declares, "as the Jews are among us." The narrative
next refers to Ceylon, and gives a very accurate account of the Cingalese cinnamon tree; but,
if Conti visited the island at all, it was probably on the return journey. His outward route
now took him to Sumatra, where he stayed a year, and of whose cruel, brutal, cannibal natives
he gained a pretty full knowledge, as of the camphor, pepper and gold of this "Taprobana."
From Sumatra a stormy voyage of sixteen days brought him to Tenasserim, near the head of the
Malay Peninsula. We then find him at the mouth of the Ganges, and trace him ascending and descending
that river (a journey of several months), visiting Burdwan and Aracan, penetrating into Burma,
and navigating the Irawadi to Ava. He appears to have spent some time in Pegu, from which he
again plunged into the Malay Archipelago, and visited Java, his farthest point. Here he remained
nine months, and then began his return by way of Ciampa (usually Cochin-China in later medieval
European literature, but here perhaps some more westerly portion of Indo-China); a month's
voyage from Ciampa brought him to Coloen, doubtless Kulam or Quilon, in the extreme south-west
of India. Thence he continued his homeward route, touching at Cochin, Calicut and Cambay, to
Sokotra, which he describes as still mainly inhabited by Nestorian Christians; to the "rich
city" of Aden, "remarkable for its buildings"; to Gidda or Jidda, the port of Mecca; over the
desert to Carras or Cairo; and so to Venice, where he arrived in 1444.

As a penance for his (compulsory) renunciation of the Christian faith during his wanderings,
Eugenius IV. ordered him to relate his history to Poggio Bracciolini, the papal secretary.
The narrative closes with Conti's elaborate replies to Poggio's question on Indian life, social
classes, religion, fashions, manners, customs and peculiarities of various kinds. Following
a prevalent fashion, the Venetian divides his Indies into three parts, the first extending
from Persia to the Indus; the second from the Indus to the Ganges; the third including all
beyond the Ganges; this last he considered to excel the others in wealth, culture and magnificence,
and to be abreast of Italy in civilization. We may note, moreover, Conti's account of the bamboo
in the Ganges valley; of the catching, taming and rearing of elephants in Burma and other regions;
of Indian tattooing and the use of leaves for writing; of various Indian fruits, especially
the jack and mango; of the polyandry of Malabar; of the cockfighting of Java; of what is apparently
the bird of Paradise; of Indian funeral ceremonies, and especially suttee; of the self-mutilation
and immolation of Indian fanatics; and of Indian magic, navigation ("they are not acquainted
with the compass"), justice, &c. Several venerable legends are reproduced; and Conti's name-forms,
partly through Poggio's vicious classicism, are often absolutely unrecognizable; but on the
whole this is the best account of southern Asia by any European of the 15th century; while
the traveller's visit to Sokotra is an almost though not quite unique performance for a Latin
Christian of the middle ages.

