I wish you could see a building now in progress, and which has taken twelve or fourteen years
to erect, and from its appearance will not, I suppose, be finished in four or five more. It
is called St. George's Hall. The intent is to furnish suitable accommodations for the various
law courts, and also to contain the finest ball-room in Europe. It is in a commanding position.
I know little of architecture, but this building strikes me as one of exquisite beauty. We
obtained an order from the mayor to be shown over it and examine the works, and we enjoyed
it very much. The great hall will be without a rival in England. The town hall is a noble edifice,
and the people are quite proud of it. The interior is finely laid out, and has some spacious
rooms for the civic revelries of the fathers of the town. The good woman who showed us round
feels complacently enough as she explains the uses of the rooms. The ball-room is ninety feet
by forty-six, and forty feet high. The dining and drawing-rooms are spacious apartments. On
the grand staircase is a noble statue of George Canning, by Chantrey, whose beautiful one of
Washington we have so often admired in the Boston State House. In the building are some good
paintings of the late kings; one or two by Sir Thomas Lawrence. The Exchange is directly behind
the hall, and contains in the centre a glorious bronze monument to Lord Nelson, the joint production
of Wyat and Westmacott. Death is laying his hand upon the hero's heart, and Victory is placing
a fourth crown on his sword. Ever since I read Southey's Life of Nelson, I have felt an interest
in every thing relating to this great; yet imperfect man. You know that illustrated work on
Nelson that we have so often looked at it contains a large engraving of this monument. As Yankee
boys, we found our way to the top of the Exchange, to look at the cotton sales-room. This same
room has more to do with our good friends at the south than any other in the world. The atmosphere
would have been chilly to a Georgian planter, as cotton was down--down.

The Necropolis is a very spacious burying-place, open to all classes, and where persons can
be interred with the use of any form desired. The gateway is of stone, and not unlike the granite
one at Mount Auburn; and on one side is a chapel, and on the other a house for the register.
Not far from this we came to the Zoölogical Gardens, kept in excellent order, and where is
a good collection of animals, birds, &c. The Collegiate Institution is an imposing structure
in the Tudor style.

St. George's Church, which stands at the head of Lord Street, occupies the position of the
old castle, destroyed, I believe, more than one hundred and fifty years ago, and is a very
graceful termination to one of the best business avenues of the city. Several of the churches
and chapels are in good style. But one of the best buildings is--as it should be, in a city
like this--the Sailor's Home, not far from the Custom House. This is a highly-ornamented house,
and would adorn any city of the world.

The Custom House is thought to be one of the finest buildings in the kingdom. It occupied ten
years in its erection. It is composed of three façades, from a rusticated pavement, each having
a splendid portico of eight Ionic columns. The whole is surmounted by a dome, one hundred and
thirty feet high, and the effect of the building is excellent. The glory of Liverpool is her
docks, and a stranger is sure to be pointed to the great landing stage, an immense floating
pier, which was moored into its present position on the 1st of June, 1847. This stage is five
hundred and seven feet long, and over eighty feet wide. This mass of timber floats upon pontoons,
which have to support more than two thousand tons. At each end is a light barge.

In the Clarence dock are to be found the Irish and coasting steamers, and to the north are
the Trafalgar, Victoria, and Waterloo docks; the Prince's dock, and the Great Prince's dock
basin. On the outside of all these is a fine parade, of about one half a mile, and which affords
one of the most beautiful marine promenades in the world, and gives an interesting view of
the Cheshire shore, opposite the city. The Prince's dock is five hundred yards long, and one
hundred broad. Vessels, on arriving, discharge on the east side, and take in cargo on the west.
Besides all these there is the Brunswick dock, Queen's dock, Duke's dock, Salthouse dock, &c.

The Royal Liverpool Institution is a great benefit to the inhabitants. It has a good library,
fine collections of paintings, and a good museum of natural history. Many of these paintings
belong to the early masters, and date even before the fifteenth century. We were interested
to find here a complete set of casts of the Elgin marbles. The originals were the decorations
of the Parthenon at Athens, and are now in the British Museum. As we shall spend some time
in that collection, I say no more at present about these wonderful monuments of genius. The
Athenæum and the Lyceum are both fine buildings, and each has a good library, lecture, and
news rooms.

We were disappointed at finding the Rev. Dr. Raffles, the most eloquent preacher of the city,
out of town. He was the successor of Spencer, who was drowned bathing in the Mersey, and his
Life by Raffles is one of deep interest. The great historical name of Liverpool is William
Roscoe, the author of the Lives of Leo X. and the Medici. I must not omit to tell you that,
during our stay, the town was all alive with a regiment of lancers, just arrived from Ireland,
on their way to London. They are indeed fine-looking fellows, and are mounted on capital horses.
I have watched their evolutions in front of the Adelphi with much pleasure, and have been amused
to notice a collection of the most wretched-looking boys I ever saw, brought together by the
troops. There seems to me more pauperism this week, in Liverpool, than I ever saw in New York
in my life.

Truly yours,

JAMES.

Letter 4.

LONDON.

DEAR CHARLEY:--

Does it not seem strange that I am here in London? I can hardly tell what to write about first.
I stand at the door of our hotel and look at the crowds in the streets, and then at old King
Charles, at Charing Cross, directly across the road, and when I think that this is the old
city where Wat Tyler figured, and Whittington was lord mayor, and Lady Jane Grey was beheaded,
and where the Tower is still to be seen, I am half beside myself, and want to do nothing but
roam about for a good month to come. I have read so much concerning London, that I am pretty
sure I know more about it than many of the boys who have heard Bow Church bells all their lives.
We left Liverpool for Birmingham, where we passed an afternoon and evening in the family of
a manufacturer very pleasantly, and at ten o'clock took the express mail train for London.
We are staying at a hotel called the Golden Cross, Charing Cross. We have our breakfast in
the coffee-room, and then dine as it suits our convenience as to place and hour. We spent one
day in riding about the city, and I think we got quite an idea of the great streets.

The Strand is a very fine business street, perhaps a mile long. It widens in one part, and
has two churches in the middle of it, and a narrow street seems built inside it at one place,
as nasty, dirty a lane as I ever saw, called Hollowell Street. I was very much delighted at
the end of the Strand to see old Temple Bar, which is the entrance to the city proper, and
which divides Fleet Street from the Strand. It is a noble archway, with small side arches for
foot passengers. The head of many a poor fellow, and the quarters of men called traitors, have
been fastened over this gateway in former times.

Dr. Johnson was once walking in Westminster Abbey with Goldsmith, and as they were looking
at the Poet's Corner, Johnson said to his friend,--

     "Forsitan et nostrum nomen miscebitur istis."

When they had walked on to Temple Bar, Goldsmith stopped Johnson, and pointed to the heads
of Fletcher and Townley, hanging above, and slyly remarked,--

     "Forsitan et nostrum nomen miscebitur istis."

I suppose you remember that the great dictionary man was a Jacobite in his heart.

The present bar was put up in 1670, and was designed by Sir Christopher Wren. The statues on
the sides, which are towards the city, are those of Queen Elizabeth and James I.; and towards
the Strand, those of Charles I. and Charles II. They stand in niches.

Whenever the monarch passes into the city, there is much ceremony takes place at the bar. The
gates are closed, a herald sounds a trumpet and knocks for entrance, the gates are opened,
and the lord mayor of London presents the sword of the city to the sovereign, who returns it
to his lordship. The upper part of the bar is used by Messrs. Childs, the bankers, as a store
room for their past account books.

Fleet Street is thronged with passengers and carriages of all sorts. Just a few doors from
the bar, on the right-hand side, is a gayly-painted front, which claims to have been a palace
of Henry VIII. and the residence of Cardinal Wolsey. It is now used as a hair-cutting shop,
up stairs. We went up and examined the panelled ceiling, said to be just as it used to be.
It is certainly very fine, and looks as if it were as old as the times of bluff Harry. Of course
we had our hair cut in the old palace.

We followed through Fleet Street, noticing the offices of Punch and the London Illustrated
News, till we came to Ludgate Hill,--rather an ascent,--which is the direct way to the Cathedral
Church of St. Paul's. It stands directly in front of Ludgate Hill, and the churchyard occupies
a large space, and the streets open on each side, making a sort of square called Paul's Churchyard,
and then at the rear you go into Cheapside. We looked with interest, I can tell you, at Bow
Church, and, as the old bells were ringing, I tried to listen if I could hear what Whittington
heard once from their tingling--"Turn again, Whittington, lord mayor, of London." At the end
of this street, on the right hand, is the lord mayor's house, called the Mansion House, and
directly in front of the street, closing it up, and making it break off, is the Royal Exchange;
whilst at the left is the Bank of England. All these are very noble-looking buildings, and
you will hear about them from us as we examine them in our future walks. We went to the counting-house
of Messrs. Baring & Co., the great merchants and bankers for so many Americans, and there we
found our letters and got some money. Mr. Sturgis, one of the partners, told us to take the
check to the bank, No. 68 Lombard Street, and informed us that was the very house where the
great merchant of Queen Elizabeth's time--Sir Thomas Gresham--used to live. He built the first
London Exchange, and his sign, a large grasshopper, is still preserved at the bank. On Good
Friday we had bunns for breakfast, with a cross upon them, and they were sold through the streets
by children, crying "One a penny, two a penny, hot cross bunns." We took a carriage and rode
to Camden town to visit a friend; thence we took the cars, to Hackney, and called on the Rev.
Dr. Cox, who some fifteen years ago made the tour of the United States, and wrote a volume
on our country. We then returned to London, and took our dinner at the London Coffee House,
Ludgate Hill. This has been a very celebrated house for one hundred years, and figures largely
in the books of travellers fifty years ago. It has a high reputation still, and every thing
was excellent, and the waiting good. You cannot walk about London without observing how few
boys of our age are to be seen in the streets, and when we asked the reason, we were told that
nearly all the lads of respectable families were sent to boarding schools, and the vacations
only occur at June and December; then the boys return home, and the city swarms with them at
all the places of amusement. We seemed to be objects of attention, because we wore caps; (here
boys all wear hats;) and then our gilt buttons on blue jackets led many to suppose that we
were midshipmen. The omnibuses are very numerous, and each one has a conductor, who stands
on a high step on the left side of the door, watching the sidewalks and crying out the destination
of the "bus," as the vehicle is called. There is a continual cry, "Bank, bank," "Cross, cross,"
"City, city," &c. I must not forget to tell you one thing; and that is, London is the place
to make a sight-seeing boy very tired, and I am quite sure that, in ten minutes, I shall be
unable to do what I can now very heartily, viz., assure you that

I am yours, affectionately,

GEORGE.

Letter 5.

LONDON.

DEAR CHARLEY:--

After passing a day or two in a general view of the city, and making some preliminary arrangements
for our future movements, we all called upon Mr. Lawrence, the minister of our country at the
court of St. James, which expression refers to the appellation of the old palace of George
III. Mr. Lawrence resides in Piccadilly, opposite the St. James's Park, in a very splendid
mansion, which he rents from an English nobleman, all furnished. We were very kindly received
by his excellency, who expressed much pleasure at seeing his young countrymen coming abroad,
and said he was fond of boys, and liked them as travelling companions. I handed him a letter
of introduction from his brother. Mr. Lawrence offered us all the facilities in his power to
see the sights, and these are great, for he is furnished by the government of England with
orders which will admit parties to almost every thing in and about London. Amongst other tickets
he gave us the following admissions: to the Queen's stables, Windsor Castle, Dulwich Gallery,
Woolwich Arsenal, Navy Yard, Sion House, Northumberland House, Houses of Parliament, and, what
we highly valued, an admission to enter the exhibition, which is yet unfinished, and not open
to inspection.

After leaving the minister, we paid our respects to Mr. Davis, the secretary of legation, and
were kindly received. We walked on from Piccadilly to the Crystal Palace, passing Apsley House,
the residence of the Duke of Wellington, and soon reached Hyde Park, with its famous gateway
and the far-famed statue of "the duke." As we shall go into some detailed account of the palace
after the exhibition opens, I would only say, that we were exceedingly surprised and delighted
with the building itself, and were so taken up with that as hardly to look at its contents,
which were now rapidly getting into order. The effect of the noble elms which are covered up
in the palace is very striking and pleasing, and very naturally suggests the idea that the
house would, by and by, make a glorious green-house for the city, where winter's discontents
might be almost made into a "glorious summer." A poor fellow was killed here, just before we
entered, by falling through the skylight roof. He was at work on a plank laid across the iron
frame, and that tipping up, threw him on to the glass, and his death was instantaneous. We
are more and more pleased at having so central a domicile as the Golden Cross, for time is
every thing when you have to see sights; and here we can get to any point we desire by a bus,
and obtain a fly at any moment. Very much that we desire to see, too, is east of Temple Bar,
and our Mentor seems determined that we shall become acquainted with the London of other times,
and we rarely walk out without learning who lived in "that house," and what event had happened
in "that street." I fancy that we are going to gather up much curious matter for future use
and recollection by our street wanderings. A book called "The Streets of London" is our frequent
study, and is daily consulted with advantage. To-day we dined at the famous Williams's, in
Old Bailey, where boiled beef is said to be better than at any other place in London. It was
certainly as fine as could be desired. The customers were numerous, and looked like business
men. The proprietor was a busy man, and his eyes seemed every where. A vision of cockroaches,
however, dispelled the appetite for a dessert, and we perambulated our way to the Monument.
This has a noble appearance, and stands on Fish Street Hill. The pillar is two hundred and
two feet high, and is surmounted by a gilt flame. The object of the Monument is to commemorate
the great fire of London in Charles II.'s reign.

It had an inscription which ascribed the origin of the fire to the Catholics; but recently
this has been obliterated.

There are few things in London that have impressed us more than the fine, massive bridges which
span the Thames, and are so crowded with foot passengers and carriages. Every boy who has read
much has had his head full of notions about London Bridge; that is, old London Bridge, which
was taken down about thirty years ago. The old bridge was originally a wooden structure, and
on the sides of the bridge were houses, and the pathway in front had all sorts of goods exposed
for sale, and the Southwark gate of the bridge was disfigured with the heads and quarters of
the poor creatures who were executed for treason.

The new bridge was commenced in 1825, and it was opened in 1831 by William IV. and Queen Adelaide.
The bridge has five arches; the central one is one hundred and fifty feet in the clear, the
two next one hundred and forty feet, and the extreme arches one hundred and thirty feet. The
length, including the abutments, is about one thousand feet, its width eighty-three feet, and
the road for carriages fifty-five feet.

The great roads leading to London Bridge have been most costly affairs; and I was told that
a parish and its church had been destroyed to make these approaches. The men of different generations,
who, for almost one thousand years, looked at the old bridge, would stare at the present one
and its present vicinity, if they were to come back again. Southwark Bridge was commenced in
1814, and finished in 1819. It has three arches, and the central arch is two hundred and forty
feet, which is the greatest span in the world. In this bridge are five thousand three hundred
and eight tons of iron. Blackfriars Bridge was commenced in 1760, and opened in 1770. It has
nine elliptical arches, of which the middle one is one hundred feet in width. Recently this
bridge has been thoroughly repaired. I think this is my favorite stand-point for the river
and city. Nowhere else have I obtained such a view up and down the river. Here I have a full
prospect of the Tower, St. Paul's Cathedral, Somerset House, the Houses of Parliament, Westminster
Abbey, and perhaps twenty-five other churches! But the great bridge of all is the Waterloo
one, commenced in 1811, and opened in 1817, on the 18th of June, the anniversary of the battle
of Waterloo. Of course, the Duke of Wellington figured upon the occasion. At this point the
river is one thousand three hundred and twenty-six feet wide; and the bridge is of nine elliptical
arches, each of one hundred and twenty feet space, and thirty-five feet high above high water,
and its entire length two thousand four hundred and fifty-six feet. It is painful to hear the
sad stories which have a connection with this magnificent structure. It seems the chosen resort
of London suicides, and very frequent are the events which almost justify its appellation--"the
Bridge of Sighs." I love to walk this and the other bridges, and look at the mighty city, and
think of its wonderful history and its existing place in the affairs of the world; and I cannot
help thinking of the reflection of the wise man--"One generation passeth away, but the earth
remaineth." I have never felt my own insignificance so much, Charley, as when walking in one
of these crowded streets. I know no one; I am unknown; I am in solitude, and feel it more,
perhaps, than I should if alone upon a mountain top or in a wilderness. I am sure I have told
you enough for once, and perhaps you are as tired of my letter as I was in going over the places
I have written to you about; so I will relieve your patience.

I am yours always,

WELD.

Letter 6.

LONDON.

DEAR CHARLEY:--

All round London there are the most exquisite villages or towns, full of charming retreats,
boxes of wealthy tradesmen, and some very fine rows of brick and stone residences, with gardens
in front. I am amused to see almost every house having a name. Thus you find one house called,
on the gateway, Hamilton Villa, the next Hawthorne Lodge, whilst opposite their fellows rejoice
in the names, Pelham House, Cranborne Cottage; and so it is with hundreds of neat little domiciles.
I think the road up to St. John's Wood is one of the prettiest I have seen; and there are in
it perhaps two hundred habitations, each having its sobriquet. Since writing to you last we
have been to Camberwell, a very pretty place, two or three miles from the city. We called on
a gentleman who had a party that night, and we were politely invited, and spent an agreeable
evening. The supper was elegant, and the ladies were quite inquisitive as to our social manners.
One gentleman present had a son in Wisconsin, and he seemed to fancy that, as that state was
in the United States, it was pretty much like the rest of the country. We told him that Wisconsin
was about as much like New York and Massachusetts as Brighton, in 1851, was like what it was
one hundred years ago. When we talk with well-educated persons here, we are much amused at
their entire unacquaintedness with American geography and history. I think an importation of
Morse's School Geography would be of great service. We very often lose our patience when we
hear about the great danger of life in America. I find very intelligent and respectable persons
who fancy that life is held by a slight tenure in the Union, and that law and order are almost
unknown. Now, the first week we were in London the papers teemed with accounts of murders in
various parts of England. One newspaper detailed no less than eleven oases of murder, or executions
on account of murders. Poison, however, seems just at present the prevailing method by which
men and women are removed.

As to accidents in travel, we, no doubt, have our full share; but since our arrival in England
the railroad trains have had some pretty rough shakings, and the results in loss of life and
limb would have passed for quite ugly enough, even had they happened in the west. I very much
wish you could have been with us on Easter Monday, when we passed the day at Greenwich, and
were at the renowned Greenwich Fair, which lasts for three days. The scene of revelry takes
place in the Park, a royal one, and really a noble one. Here all the riff-raff and bobtail
of London repair in their finery, and have a time. You can form no notion of the affair; it
cannot be described. The upper part of the Park, towards the Royal Observatory, is very steep,
and down this boys and girls, men and women, have a roll. Such scenes as are here to be witnessed
we cannot match. Nothing can exceed the doings that occur. All the public houses swarm, and
in no spot have I ever seen so many places for drinking as are here. The working-men of London,
and apprentices, with wires and sweethearts, all turn out Easter Monday. It seems as though
all the horses, carts, chaises, and hackney coaches of the city were on the road. We saw several
enormous coal wagons crammed tightly with boys and girls. On the fine heath, or down, that
skirts the Park, are hundreds of donkeys, and you are invited to take a halfpenny, penny, or
twopenny ride. All sorts of gambling are to be seen. One favorite game with the youngsters
was to have a tobacco box, full of coppers, stuck on a stick standing in a hole, and then,
for a halfpenny paid to the proprietor, you are entitled to take a shy at the mark. If it falls
into the hole, you lose; if you knock it off, and away from the hole, you take it. It requires,
I fancy, much adroitness and experience to make any thing at "shying" at the "bacca box." At
night, Greenwich is all alive--life is out of London and in the fair. But let the traveller
who has to return to town beware. The road is full of horses and vehicles, driven by drunken
men and boys; and, for four or five miles, you can imagine that a city is besieged, and that
the inhabitants are flying from the sword. O, such weary-looking children as we saw that day!
One favorite amusement was to draw a little wooden instrument quick over the coat of another
person, when it produces a noise precisely like that of a torn garment. Hundreds of these machines
were in the hands of the urchins who crowded the Park. Here, for the first time, I saw the
veritable gypsy of whose race we have read so much in Bòrrow's Zincali. The women are very
fine looking, and some of the girls were exquisitely beautiful. They are a swarthy-looking
set, and seem to be a cross of Indian and Jew. Those we saw were proper wiry-looking fellows.
One or two of the men were nattily dressed, with fancy silk handkerchiefs. They live in tents,
and migrate through the midland counties, but I believe are not as numerous as they were thirty
years ago. You will not soon forget how we were pleased with the memoirs of Bamfield Moore
Carew, who was once known as their king in Great Britain. I wonder that book has never been
reprinted in America. I am pretty sure that Greenwich Park would please your taste. I think
the view from the Royal Observatory, and from whence longitude is reckoned, is one of the grandest
I have ever seen. You get a fine view of the noble palace once the royal residence, but now
the Sailor's Home. You see the Thames, with its immense burden, and, through the mist, the
great city. As to the Hospital, we shall leave that for another excursion: we came to Greenwich
at present merely to witness Easter Fair, and it will not soon be forgotten by any of us.

Yours, &c.,

JAMES.

Letter 7.

BRISTOL.

DEAR CHARLEY:--

As we had a few days to spare before the exhibition opened, we proposed to run down to Bristol
and Bath, and pass a week. We took the Great Western train first-class ears, and made the journey
of one hundred and twenty miles in two hours and forty minutes. This is the perfection of travelling.
The cars are very commodious, holding eight persons, each having a nicely-cushioned chair.
The rail is the broad gage; and we hardly felt the motion, so excellent is the road. The country
through which we passed was very beautiful, and perhaps it never appears to more advantage
than in the gay garniture of spring. We left Windsor Castle to our left, and Eton College,
and passed by Beading, a fine, flourishing town; and at Swindon we made a stay of ten minutes.
The station at this place is very spacious and elegant. Here the passengers have the only opportunity
to obtain refreshments on the route; and never did people seem more intent upon laying in provender.
The table was finely laid out, and a great variety tempted the appetite. The railroad company,
when they leased this station, stipulated that every train should pass ten minutes at it. But
the express train claimed exemption, and refused to afford the time. The landlord prosecuted
the company, obtained satisfactory damages, and now even the express train affords its passengers
time to recruit at Swindon. This place has grown up under the auspices of the railroad, and
one can hardly fancy a prettier place than environs the station. The cottages are of stone,
of the Elizabethan and Tudor style, and are very numerous; while the church, which is just
finished, is one of the neatest affairs I have yet seen in England. The town of Swindon is
about two miles from the station, and I expect to visit it in the course of my journey. You
know, my dear Charley, how long and fondly I have anticipated my visit to my native city, and
can imagine my feelings on this route homewards. We passed through Bath, a most beautiful city,
(and I think as beautiful as any I ever saw,) and then in half an hour we entered Bristol.
The splendid station-house of the railroad was new to me, but the old streets and houses were
all familiar as if they had been left but yesterday. The next morning I called on my friends,
and you may think how sad my disappointment was to find that a dangerous accident had just
placed my nearest relative in the chamber of painful confinement for probably three months.
It was a pleasant thing to come home to scenes of childhood and youth, and I was prepared to
enjoy every hour; but I soon realized that here all our roses have thorns. Of course, in Bristol
I need no guide; and the boys are, I assure you, pretty thoroughly fagged out, when night comes,
with our perambulations through the old city and neighborhood.

Bristol has claims upon the attention of the stranger, not only as one of the oldest cities
in England, but on account of its romantic scenery. The banks of the Avon are not to be surpassed
by the scenes afforded by any other river of its size in the world. This city was founded by
Brennus, the chieftain of the Gauls and the conqueror of Rome, 388 B.C., and tradition states
that his brother Belinus aided him in the work. The statues of these worthies are quaintly
carved on the gateway of John's Church, in Broad Street, and are of very great antiquity. In
the earliest writings that bear upon the west of England--the Welsh Chronicles--this city is
called Caër oder, which means the city of the Chasm. This the Saxons called Clifton. The Avon
runs through a tremendous fissure in the rocks called Vincent's Rocks; and hence the name given
to the suburbs of the city, on its banks--Clifton. Of this place we shall have much to tell
you. Another Welsh name for the city was Caër Brito, or the painted city, or the famous city.
Bristol, like Rome, stands on seven hills, and on every side is surrounded by the most attractive
scenery. It has made quite a figure in history, and its castle was an object of great importance
during the civil wars between Charles I. and his Parliament. This city stands in two counties,
and has the privileges of one itself. It is partly in Gloucestershire and partly in Somersetshire.
The population of Bristol, with Clifton and the Hot Wells, is about two hundred thousand. My
first excursion with the boys was to Redcliffe Church, which is thought to be the finest parish
church in England. This is the church where poor Chatterton said that he found the Rowley MSS.
No one of taste visits the city without repairing to this venerable pile. Its antiquity, beauty
of architecture, and the many interesting events connected with its history, claim particular
notice. This church was probably commenced about the beginning of the thirteenth century; but
it was completed by William Cannynge, Sen., mayor of the city, in 1396. In 1456, the lofty
spire was struck by lightning, and one hundred feet fell upon the south aisle. The approach
from Redcliffe Street is very impressive. The highly-ornamented tower, the west front of the
church, its unrivalled north porch, and the transept, with flying buttresses, pinnacles, and
parapet, cannot fail to gratify every beholder. The building stands on a hill, and is approached
by a magnificent flight of steps, guarded by a heavy balustrade. In length, the church and
the Lady Chapel is two hundred and thirty-nine feet; from north to south of the cross aisles
is one hundred and seventeen feet; the height of the middle aisle is fifty-four, and of the
north and south aisles, twenty-five feet.

The impression produced on the spectator by the interior is that of awe and reverence, as he
gazes on the clustered pillars, the mullioned windows, the panelled walls, the groined ceilings,
decorated with ribs, tracery, and bosses, all evincing the skill of its architects and the
wonderful capabilities of the Gothic style.

The east window and screen have long been hidden by some large paintings of Hogarth. The subjects
of these are the Ascension, the Three Marys at the Sepulchre, and the High Priest sealing Christ's
Tomb.

On a column in the south transept is a flat slab, with a long inscription, in memory of Sir
William Penn, father of William Penn, the great founder of Pennsylvania. The column is adorned
with his banner and armor.

The boys, who had so often read of Guy, Earl of Warwick, and of his valorous exploits, were
greatly pleased to find in this church, placed against a pillar, a rib of the Dun cow which
he is said to have slain.

You may be very sure that we inquired for the room in which Chatterton said he found old Monk
Rowley's poems. It is an hexagonal room over the north porch, in which the archives were kept
Chatterton's uncle was sexton of the church; and the boy had access to the building, and carried
off parchments at his pleasure. The idea of making a literary forgery filled his mind; and
if you read Southey and Cottle's edition of the works of Chatterton, or, what is far better,
an admirable Life of the young poet by John Dix, a gifted son of Bristol, now living in America,
you will have an interesting view of the character of this remarkable youth.

At the east end of the church is the Chapel of the Virgin Mary. A noble room it is. A large
statue of Queen Elizabeth, in wood, stands against one of the windows, just where it did thirty-seven
years ago, when I was a youngster, and went to her majesty's grammar school, which is taught
in the chapel. I showed the boys the names of my old school-fellows cut upon the desks. How
various their fates! One fine fellow, whose name yet lives on the wood, found his grave in
the West Indies, on a voyage he had anticipated with great joy.

I am glad to say that a spirited effort is now making to restore this gorgeous edifice. It
was greatly needed, and was commenced in 1846. I do wish you could see this church and gaze
upon its interior. I have obtained some fine drawings of parts of the edifice, and they will
enable you to form some faint idea of the splendor of the whole. We have to dine with a friend,
and I must close.

Yours affectionately,

J.O.C.

Letter 8.

BRISTOL.

DEAR CHARLEY:--

You have so often expressed a desire to see the fine cathedral churches and abbeys of the old
world, that I shall not apologize for giving you an account of them; and as they are more in
my way, I shall take them into my hands, and let the lads write you about other things. The
next visit we took, after I wrote you last, was to the cathedral. This is of great antiquity.
In 1148, a monastery was dedicated to St. Augustine. This good man sent one Jordan as a missionary
in 603, and here he labored faithfully and died. It seems, I think, well sustained that the
venerable Austin himself preached here, and that his celebrated conference with the British
clergy took place on College Green; and it is thought that the cathedral was built on its site
to commemorate the event. The vicinity of the church is pleasing. The Fitzhardings, the founders
of the Berkeley family, began the foundation of the abbey in 1140, and it was endowed and dedicated
in 1148. The tomb of Sir Robert, the founder, lies at the east of the door, and is enclosed
with rails. Some of the buildings connected with the church are of great antiquity, and are
probably quite as old as the body of the cathedral. A gateway leading to the cloisters and
chapter-house is plainly Saxon, and is regarded as the finest Saxon archway in England. The
western part of the cathedral was demolished by Henry VIII. The eastern part, which remains,
has a fine Gothic choir. This was created a bishop's see by Henry VIII. It is interesting to
think that Secker, Butler, and Newton have all been bishops of this diocese, and Warburton,
who wrote the Divine Legation of Moses, was once Dean of Bristol. The immortal Butler, who
wrote the Analogy of Natural and Revealed Religion, lies buried here, and his tombstone is
on the south aisle, at the entrance of the choir. A splendid monument has been erected to his
memory, with the following inscription from the pen of Robert Southey, himself a Bristolian:--

     Sacred
     to the Memory of
     JOSEPH BUTLER, D.C.L.,
     twelve years Bishop of this Diocese,
     afterwards of Durham, whose mortal remains
     are here deposited.

     Born, A.D. 1693. Died, 1752.

We noticed a very fine monument by Bacon to the memory of Mrs. Draper, said to have been the
Eliza of Sterne. We hastened to find the world-renowned tomb of Mrs. Mason, and to read the
lines on marble of that inimitable epitaph, which has acquired a wider circulation than any
other in the world. The lines were written by her husband, the Rev. William Mason.

In the cloisters we saw the tomb of Bird the artist, a royal academician, and a native of Bristol.
We were much interested with a noble bust of Robert Southey, the poet, which has just been
erected in the north aisle. It stands on an octangular pedestal of gray marble, with Gothic
panels. The bust is of the most exquisitely beautiful marble. The inscription is in German text.

     Robert Southey,
     Born in Bristol,
     October 4, 1774;
     Died at Reswick,
     March 21, 1843.

The cloisters contain some fine old rooms, which recall the days of the Tudors. Here we saw
the apartments formerly occupied by the learned and accomplished Dr. Hodges, now organist of
Trinity Church, New York. This gentleman is a native of Bristol, and is held, we find, in respectful
and affectionate remembrance by the best people of this city.

