
She used to invent strange, dangerous gymnastics when she was left alone in the house: she
used to subject her body to all sorts of queer experiments.

"Who would think it of you now, to see you looking so solemn?..."

"Oh!" she said, "if you were to see me sometimes when I am alone in my room!"

"What! Even now?"

She laughed. She asked him--jumping from one subject to another--if he were a shot.

He told her that he never shot. She said that she had once shot at a blackbird with a gun and
had wounded it. He waxed indignant.

"Oh!" she said. "What does it matter?"

"Have you no heart?"

"I don't know."

"Don't you ever think the beasts are living creatures like ourselves?"

"Yes," she said. "Certainly. I wanted to ask you: do you think the beasts have souls?"

"Yes. I think so."

"The minister says not. But I think they have souls.... Sometimes," she added, "I think I must
have been an animal in a previous existence."

He began to laugh.

"There's nothing to laugh at," she said (she laughed too). "That is one of the stories I used
to tell myself when I was little. I used to pretend to be a cat, a dog, a bird, a foal, a heifer.
I was conscious of all their desires. I wanted to be in their skins or their feathers for a
little while: and it used to be as though I really was. You can't understand that?"

"You are a strange creature. But if you feel such kinship with the beasts how can you bear
to hurt them?"

"One is always hurting some one. Some people hurt me. I hurt other people. That's the way of
the world. I don't complain. We can't afford to be squeamish in life! I often hurt myself for
the pleasure of it."

"Hurt yourself?"

"Myself. One day I hammered a nail into my hand, here."

"Why?"

"There wasn't any reason."

(She did not tell him that she had been trying to crucify herself.)

"Give me your hand," she said.

"What do you want it for?"

"Give it me."

He gave her his hand. She took it and crushed it until he cried out. They played, like peasants,
at seeing how much they could hurt each other. They were happy and had no ulterior thought.
The rest of the world, the fetters of their ordinary life, the sorrows of the past, fear of
the future, the gathering storm within themselves, all had disappeared.

They had walked several miles, but they were not at all tired. Suddenly she stopped, flung
herself down on the ground, and lay full length on the stubble, and said no more. She lay on
her back with her hands behind her head and looked up at the sky. Oh! the peace of it, and
the sweetness!... A few yards away a spring came bubbling up in an intermittent stream, like
an artery beating, now faintly, now more strongly. The horizon took on a pearly hue. A mist
hung over the purple earth from which the black naked trees stood out. The late winter sun
was shining, the little pale gold sun sinking down to rest. Like gleaming arrows the birds
cleft the air. The gentle voices of the country bells called and answered calling from village
to village.... Christophe sat near Anna and looked down at her. She gave no thought to him.
She was full of a heartfelt joy. Her beautiful lips smiled silently. He thought:

"Is that you? I do not know you."

"Nor I. Nor I. I think I must be some one else. I am no longer afraid: I am no longer afraid
of Him.... Ah! How He stifled me, how He made me suffer! I seemed to have been nailed down
in my coffin.... Now I can breathe: this body and this heart are mine. My body. My dear body.
My heart is free and full of love. There is so much happiness in me! And I knew it not. I never
knew myself! What have you done to me?..."

So he thought he could hear her softly sighing to herself. But she was thinking of nothing,
only that she was happy, only that all was well.

The evening had begun to fall. Behind the gray and lilac veils of mist, about four o'clock,
the sun, weary of life, was setting. Christophe got up and went to Anna. He bent down to her.
She turned her face to him, still dizzy with looking up into the vast sky over which she seemed
to have been hanging. A few seconds passed before she recognized him. Then her eyes stared
at him with an enigmatic smile that told him of the unease that was in her. To escape the knowledge
of it he closed his eyes for a moment. When he opened them again she was still looking at him:
and it seemed to him that for many days they had so looked into each other's eyes. It was as
though they were reading each other's soul. But they refused to admit what they had read there.

He held out his hand to her. She took it without a word. They went back to the village, the
towers of which they could see shaped like the pope's nose in the heart of the valley: one
of the towers had an empty storks' nest on the top of its roof of mossy tiles, looking just
like a toque on a woman's head. At a cross-roads just outside the village they passed a fountain
above which stood a little Catholic saint, a wooden Magdalene, graciously and a little mincingly
holding out her arms. With an instinctive movement Anna responded to the gesture and held out
her arms also, and she climbed on to the curb and filled the arms of the pretty little goddess
with branches of holly and mountain-ash with such of their red berries as the birds and the
frost had spared.

On the road they passed little groups of peasants and peasant women in their Sunday clothes:
women with brown skins, very red cheeks, thick plaits coiled round their heads, light dresses,
and hats with flowers. They wore white gloves and red cuffs. They were singing simple songs
with shrill placid voices not very much in tune. In a stable a cow was mooing. A child with
whooping-cough was coughing in a house. A little farther on there came up the nasal sound of
a clarionet and a cornet. There was dancing in the village square between the little inn and
the cemetery. Four musicians, perched on a table, were playing a tune. Anna and Christophe
sat in front of the inn and watched the dancers. The couples were jostling and slanging each
other vociferously. The girls were screaming for the pleasure of making a noise. The men drinking
were beating time on the tables with their fists. At any other time such ponderous coarse joy
would have disgusted Anna: but now she loved it: she had taken off her hat and was watching
eagerly. Christophe poked fun at the burlesque solemnity of the music and the musicians. He
fumbled in his pockets and produced a pencil and began to make lines and dots on the back of
a hotel bill: he was writing dance music. The paper was soon covered: he asked for more, and
these too he covered like the first with his big scrawling writing. Anna looked over his shoulder
with her face near his and hummed over what he wrote: she tried to guess how the phrases would
end, and clapped her hands when she guessed right or when her guesses were falsified by some
unexpected sally. When he had done Christophe took what he had written to the musicians. They
were honest Suabians who knew their business, and they made it out without much difficulty.
The melodies were sentimental, and of a burlesque humor, with strongly accented rhythms, punctuated,
as it were, with bursts of laughter. It was impossible to resist their impetuous fun: nobody's
feet could help dancing. Anna rushed into the throng; she gripped the first pair of hands held
out to her and whirled about like a mad thing; a tortoise-shell pin dropped out of her hair
and a few locks of it fell down and hung about her face. Christophe never took his eyes off
her: he marveled at the fine healthy animal who hitherto had been condemned to silence and
immobility by a pitiless system of discipline: he saw her as no one had ever seen her, as she
really was under her borrowed mask: a Bacchante, drunk with life. She called to him. He ran
to her and put his arms round her waist. They danced and danced until they whirled crashing
into a wall. They stopped, dazed. Night was fully come. They rested for a moment and then said
good-by to the company. Anna, who was usually so stiff with the common people, partly from
embarrassment, partly from contempt, held out her hand to the musicians, the host of the inn,
the village boys with whom she had been dancing.

Once more they were alone under the brilliant frozen sky retracing the paths across the fields
by which they had come in the morning. Anna was still excited. She talked less and less, and
then ceased altogether, as though she had succumbed to fatigue or to the mysterious emotion
of the night. She leaned affectionately on Christophe. As they were going down the slope up
which they had so blithely scrambled a few hours before, she sighed. They approached the station.
As they came to the first house he stopped and looked at her. She looked up at him and smiled
sadly. The train was just as crowded as it had been before, and they could not talk. He sat
opposite her and devoured her with his eyes. Her eyes were lowered: she raised them and looked
at him when she felt his eyes upon her: then she glanced away and he could not make her look
at him again. She sat gazing out into the night. A vague smile hovered about her lips which
showed a little weariness at the corners. Then her smile disappeared. Her expression became
mournful. He thought her mind must be engrossed by the rhythm of the train and he tried to
speak to her. She replied coldly, without turning her head, with a single word. He tried to
persuade himself that her fatigue was responsible for the change: but he knew that it was for
a very different reason. The nearer they came to the town the more he saw Anna's face grow
cold, and life die down in her, and all her beautiful body with its savage grace drop back
into its casing of stone. She did not make use of the hand he held out to her as she stepped
out of the carriage. They returned home in silence.

A few days later, about four o'clock in the evening, they were alone together. Braun had gone
out. Since the day before the town had been shrouded in a pale greenish fog. The murmuring
of the invisible river came up. The lights of the electric trams glared through the mist. The
light of day was dead, stifled: time seemed to be wiped out: it was one of those hours when
men lose all consciousness of reality, an hour which is outside the march of the ages. After
the cutting wind of the preceding days, the moist air had suddenly grown warmer, too damp and
too soft. The sky was filled with snow, and bent under the load.

They were alone together in the drawing-room, the cold cramped taste of which was the reflection
of that of its mistress. They said nothing. He was reading. She was sewing. He got up and went
to the window: he pressed his face against the panes, and stood so dreaming: he was stupefied
and heavy with the dull light which was cast back from the darkling sky upon the livid earth:
his thoughts were uneasy: he tried in vain to fix them: they escaped him. He was filled with
a bitter agony: he felt that he was being engulfed: and in the depths of his being, from the
chasm of the heap of ruins came a scorching wind in slow gusts. He turned his back on Anna:
she could not see him, she was engrossed in her work; but a faint thrill passed through her
body: she pricked herself several times with her needle, but she did not feel it. They were
both fascinated by the approaching danger.

He threw off his stupor and took a few strides across the room. The piano attracted him and
made him fearful. He looked away from it. As he passed it his hand could not resist it, and
touched a note. The sound quivered like a human voice. Anna trembled, and let her sewing fall.
Christophe, was already seated and playing. Without seeing her, he knew that Anna had got up,
that she was coming towards him, that she was by his side. Before he knew what he was doing,
he had begun the religious and passionate melody that she had sung the first time she had revealed
herself to him: he improvised a fugue with variations on the theme. Without his saying a word
to her, she began to sing. They lost all sense of their surroundings. The sacred frenzy of
music had them in its clutches....

O music, that openest the abysses of the soul! Thou dost destroy the normal balance of the
mind. In ordinary life, ordinary souls are closed rooms: within, there droop the unused forces
of life, the virtues and the vices to use which is hurtful to us: sage, practical wisdom, cowardly
common sense, are the keepers of the keys of the room. They let us see only a few cupboards
tidily and properly arranged. But music holds the magic wand which drives back every lock.
The doors are opened. The demons of the heart appear. And, for the first time, the soul sees
itself naked.--While the siren sings, while the bewitching voice trembles on the air, the tamer
holds all the wild beasts in check with the power of the eye. The mighty mind and reason of
a great musician fascinates all the passions that he set loose. But when the music dies away,
when the tames is no longer there, then the passions he has summoned forth are left roaring
in their tottering cage, and they seek their prey....

The melody ended. Silence.... While she was singing she had laid her hand on Christophe's shoulder.
They dared not move: and each felt the other trembling. Suddenly--in a flash--she bent down
to him, he turned to her: their lips met: he drank her breath....

She flung away from him and fled. He stayed, not stirring in the dark. Braun returned. They
sat down to dinner. Christophe was incapable of thought. Anna seemed absent-minded: she was
looking "elsewhere." Shortly after dinner she went to her room. Christophe found it impossible
to stay alone with Braun, and went upstairs also.

About midnight the doctor was called from his bed to a patient. Christophe heard him go downstairs
and out. It had been snowing ever since six o'clock. The houses and the streets were under
a shroud. The air was as though it were padded with cotton-wool. Not a step, not a carriage
could be heard outside. The town seemed dead. Christophe could not sleep. He had a feeling
of terror which grew from minute to minute. He could not stir. He lay stiff in his bed, on
his back, with his eyes wide open. A metallic light cast up from the white earth and roofs
fell upon the walls of the room.... An imperceptible noise made him tremble. Only a man at
a feverish tension could have heard it. Came a soft rustling on the floor of the passage. Christophe
sat up in bed. The faint noise came nearer, stopped; a board creaked. There was some one behind
the door: some one waiting.... Absolute stillness for a few seconds, perhaps for several minutes....
Christophe could not breathe, he broke out into a sweat. Outside flakes of snow brushed the
window as with a wing. A hand fumbled with the door and opened it. There appeared a white form,
and it came slowly forward: it halted a few yards away from him. Christophe could see nothing
clearly: but he could hear her breathing: and he could hear his own heart thumping. She came
nearer to him; once more she halted. Their faces were so near that their breath mingled. Their
eyes sought each other vainly in the darkness.... She fell into his arms. In silence, without
a word, they hugged each other close, frenziedly....

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour, two hours, a century later, the door of the house was opened. Anna broke from the
embrace in which they were locked, slipped away, and left Christophe without a word, just as
she had come. He heard her bare feet moving away, just skimming the floor in her swift flight.
She regained her room, and there Braun found her in her bed, apparently asleep. So she lay
through the night, with eyes wide open, breathless, still, in her narrow bed near the sleeping
Braun. How many nights had she passed like that!

Christophe could not sleep either. He was utterly in despair. He had always regarded the things
of love, and especially marriage, with tragic seriousness. He hated the frivolity of those
writers whose art uses adultery as a spicy flavoring. Adultery roused in him a feeling of repulsion
which was a combination of his vulgar brutality and high morality. He had always felt a mixture
of religious respect and physical disgust for a woman who belonged to another man. The doglike
promiscuity in which some of the rich people in Europe lived appalled him. Adultery with the
consent of the husband is a filthy thing: without the husband's knowledge it is a base deceit
only worthy of a rascally servant hiding away to betray and befoul his master's honor. How
often had he not piteously despised those whom he had known to be guilty of such cowardice!
He had broken with some of his friends who had thus dishonored themselves in his eyes.... And
now he too was sullied with the same shameful thing! The circumstances of the crime only made
it the more odious. He had come to the house a sick, wretched man. His friend had welcomed
him, helped him, given him comfort. His kindness had never flagged. Nothing had been too great
a demand upon it. He owed him his very life. And in return he had robbed the man of his honor
and his happiness, his poor little domestic happiness! He had basely betrayed him, and with
whom? With a woman whom he did not know, did not understand, did not love.... Did he not love
her? His every drop of blood rose up against him. Love is too faint a word to express the river
of fire that rushed through him when he thought of her. It was not love, it was a thousand
times a greater thing than love.... He was in a whirl all through the night. He got up, dipped
his face in the icy water, gasped, and shuddered. The crisis came to a head in an attack of fever.

When he got up, aching all over, he thought that she, even more than he, must be overwhelmed
with shame. He went to the window. The sun was shining down upon the dazzling snow. In the
garden Anna was hanging out the clothes on a line. She was engrossed in her work, and seemed
to be in no wise put out. She had a dignity in her carriage and her gesture which was quite
new to him, and made him, unconsciously, liken her to a moving statue.

       *       *       *       *       *

They met again at lunch. Braun was away for the whole day. Christophe could not have borne
meeting him. He wanted to speak to Anna. But they were not alone: the servant kept going and
coming: they had to keep guard on themselves. In vain did Christophe try to catch Anna's eye.
She did not look at him or at anything. There was no indication of inward ferment: and always
in her smallest movement there was the unaccustomed assurance and nobility. After lunch he
hoped they would have an opportunity of speaking: but the servant dallied over clearing away;
and when they went into the next room she contrived to follow them: she always had something
to fetch or to bring: she stayed bustling in the passage near the half-open door which Anna
showed no hurry to shut: it looked as though she were spying on them. Anna sat by the window
with her everlasting sewing. Christophe leaned back in an armchair with his back to the light,
and a book on his knee which he did not attempt to read. Anna could only see his profile, and
she noticed the torment in his face as he looked at the wall: and she gave a cruel smile. From
the roof of the house and the tree in the garden the melting snow trickled down into the gravel
with a thin tinkling noise. Some distance away was the laughter of children chasing each other
in the street and snowballing. Anna seemed to be half-asleep. The silence was torture to Christophe:
it hurt him so that he could have cried out.

At last the servant went downstairs and left the house. Christophe got up, turned to Anna,
and was about to say:

"Anna! Anna! what have we done?"

Anna looked at him: her eyes, which had been obstinately lowered, had just opened: they rested
on Christophe, and devoured him hotly, hungrily. Christophe felt his own eyes burn under the
impact, and he reeled; everything that he wanted to say was brushed aside. They came together,
and once more they were locked in an embrace....

The shades of the evening were falling. Their blood was still in turmoil. She was lying down,
with her dress torn, her arms outstretched. He had buried his face in the pillow, and was groaning
aloud. She turned towards him and raised his head, and caressed his eyes and his lips with
her fingers: she brought her face close to his, and she stared into his eyes. Her eyes were
deep, deep as a lake, and they smiled at each other in utter indifference to pain. They lost
consciousness. He was silent. Mighty waves of feeling thrilled through them....

That night, when he was alone in his room, Christophe thought of killing himself.

Next day, as soon as he was up, he went to Anna. Now it was he whose eyes avoided hers. As
soon as he met their gaze all that he had to say was banished from his mind. However, he made
an effort, and began to speak of the cowardice of what they had done. Hardly had she understood
than she roughly stopped his lips with her hand. She flung away from him with a scowl, and
her lips pressed together, and an evil expression upon her face. He went on. She flung the
work she was holding down on the ground, opened the door, and tried to go out. He caught her
hands, closed the door, and said bitterly that she was very lucky to be able to banish from
her mind all idea of the evil they had done. She struggled like an animal caught in a trap,
and cried angrily:

"Stop!... You coward, can't you see how I am suffering?... I won't let you speak! Let me go!"

Her face was drawn, her expression was full of hate and fear, like a beast that has been hurt:
her eyes would have killed him, if they could.--He let her go. She ran to the opposite corner
of the room to take shelter. He had no desire to pursue her. His heart was aching with bitterness
and terror. Braun came in. He looked at them, and they stood stockishly there. Nothing existed
for them outside their own suffering.

Christophe went out. Braun and Anna sat down to their meal. In the middle of dinner Braun suddenly
got up to open the window. Anna had fainted.

Christophe left the town for a fortnight on the pretext of having been called away. For a whole
week Anna remained shut up in her room except for meal-times. She slipped back into consciousness
of herself, into her old habits, the old life from which she had thought she had broken away,
from which we never break away. In vain did she close her eyes to what she had done. Every
day anxiety made further inroads into her heart, and finally took possession of it. On the
following Sunday she refused once more to go to church. But the Sunday after that she went,
and never omitted it again. She was conquered, but not submissive. God was the enemy,--an enemy
from whose power she could not free herself. She went to Him with the sullen anger of a slave
who is forced into obedience. During service her face showed nothing but cold hostility: but
in the depths of her soul the whole of her religious life was a fierce, dumbly exasperated
struggle against the Master whose reproaches persecuted her. She pretended not to hear. She
had to hear: and bitterly, savagely, with clenched teeth, hard eyes, and a deep frowning furrow
in her forehead, she would argue with God. She thought of Christophe with hatred. She could
not forgive him for having delivered her for one moment from the prison of her soul, only to
let her fall back into it again, to be the prey of its tormentors. She could not sleep; day
and night she went over and over the same torturing thoughts: she did not complain: she went
on obstinately doing her household work and all her other duties, and throughout maintaining
the unyielding and obstinate character of her will in her daily life, the various tasks of
which she fulfilled with the regularity of a machine. She grew thin, and seemed to be a prey
to some internal malady. Braun questioned her fondly and anxiously: he wanted to sound her.
She repulsed him angrily. The greater her remorse grew for what she had done to him, the more
harshly she spoke to him. Christophe had determined not to return. He wore himself out. He
took long runs and violent exercise, rowed, walked, climbed mountains. Nothing was able to
quench the fire in him.

He was more the victim of passion than an ordinary man. It is the necessity of the nature of
men of genius. Even the most chaste, like Beethoven and Burchner, must always be in love: every
human capacity is raised to a higher degree in them, and as, in them, every human capacity
is seized on by their imagination, their minds are a prey to a continual succession of passions.
Most often they are only transitory fires: one destroys another, and all are absorbed by the
great blaze of the creative spirit. But if the heat of the furnace ceases to fill the soul,
then the soul is left defenseless against the passions without which it cannot live: it must
have passion, it creates passion: and the passions will devour the soul ...--and then, besides
the bitter desire that harrows the flesh, there is the need of tenderness which drives a man
who is weary and disillusioned of life into the mothering arms of the comforter, woman. A great
man is more of a child than a lesser man: more than any other, he needs to confide in a woman,
to lay his head in the soft hands of the beloved, in the folds of the lap of her gown.

But Christophe could not understand.... He did not believe in the inevitability of passion--the
idiotic cult of the romantics. He believed that a man can and must fight with all the force
of his will.... His will! Where was it? Not a trace of it was left. He was possessed. He was
stung by the barbs of memory, day and night. The scent of Anna's body was with him everywhere.
He was like a dismantled hulk, rolling rudderless, at the mercy of the winds. In vain did he
try to escape, he strove mightily, wore himself out in the attempt: he always found himself
brought back to the same place, and he shouted to the wind:

"Break me, break me, then! What do you want of me?"

Feverishly he probed into himself. Why, why this woman?... Why did he love her? It was not
for her qualities of heart or mind. There were any number of better and more intelligent women.
It was not for her body. He had had other mistresses more acceptable to his senses. What was
it?...--"We love because we love."--Yes, but there is a reason, even if it be beyond ordinary
human reason. Madness? That means nothing. Why this madness?

Because there is a hidden soul, blind forces, demons, which every one of us bears imprisoned
in himself. Our every effort, since the first existence of humanity, has been directed towards
the building up against this inward sea of the dykes of our reason and our religions. But a
storm arises (and the richest souls are the most subject to storms), the dykes are broken,
the demons have free play, they find themselves in the presence of other souls uptorn by similar
powers.... They hurl themselves at each other. Hatred or love? A frenzy of mutual destruction?--Passion
is the soul of prey.

The sea has burst its bounds. Who shall turn it back into its bed? Then must a man appeal to
a mightier than himself. To Neptune, the God of the tides.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a fortnight of vain efforts to escape, Christophe returned to Anna. He could not live
away from her. He was stifled.

And yet he went on struggling. On the evening of his return, they found excuses for not meeting
and not dining together: at night they locked their doors in fear and dread.--But love was
stronger than they. In the middle of the night she came creeping barefooted, and knocked at
his door. She wept silently. He felt the tears coursing down her cheeks. She tried to control
herself, but her anguish was too much for her and she sobbed. Under the frightful burden of
her grief Christophe forgot his own: he tried to calm her and gave her tender, comfortable
words. She moaned:

"I am so unhappy. I wish I were dead...."

Her plaint pierced his heart. He tried to kiss her. She repulsed him:

"I hate you!... Why did you ever come?"

She wrenched herself away from him. She turned her back on him and shook with rage and grief.
She hated him mortally. Christophe lay still, appalled. In the silence Anna heard his choking
breathing: she turned suddenly and flung her arms round his neck:

"Poor Christophe!" she said. "I have made you suffer...."

For the first time he heard pity in her voice.

"Forgive me," she said.

He said:

"We must forgive each other." She raised herself as though she found it hard to breathe. She
sat there, with bowed back, overwhelmed, and said:

"I am ruined.... It is God's will, He has betrayed me.... What can I do against Him?"

She stayed for a long time like that, then lay down again and did not stir. A faint light proclaimed
the dawn. In the half-light he saw her sorrowful face so near his. He murmured:

"The day."

She made no movement.

He said:

"So be it. What does it matter?"

She opened her eyes and left him with an expression of utter weariness. She sat for a moment
looking down at the floor. In a dull, colorless voice she said:

"I thought of killing him last night."

He gave a start of terror:

"Anna!" he said.

She was staring gloomily at the window.

"Anna!" he said again. "In God's name!... Not him!... He is the best of us!..."

She echoed;

"Not him. Very well."

They looked at each other.

They had known it for a long time. They had known where the only way out lay. They could not
bear to live a lie. And they had never even considered the possibility of eloping together.
They knew perfectly well that that would not solve the problem: for the bitterest suffering
came not from the external Obstacles that held them apart, but in themselves, in their different
souls. It was as impossible for them to live together as to live apart. They were driven into
a corner.

From that moment on they never touched each other: the shadow of death was upon them: they
were sacred to each other.

But they put off appointing a time for their decision. They kept on saying: "To-morrow, to-morrow..."
And they turned their eyes away from their to-morrow, Christophe's mighty soul had Wild spasms
Of revolt: he would not consent to his defeat: he despised suicide, and he could not resign
himself to such a pitiful and abrupt conclusion of his splendid life. As for Anna, how could
she, unless she were forced, accept the idea of a death which must lead to eternal death? But
ruthless necessity was at their heels, and the circle was slowly narrowing about them.

       *       *       *       *       *

That morning, for the first time since the betrayal, Christophe was left alone with Braun.
Until then he had succeeded in avoiding him. He found it intolerable to be with him. He had
to make an excuse to avoid eating at the same table: the food stuck in his throat. To shake
the man's hand, to eat his bread, to give the kiss of Judas!... Most odious for him to think
of was not the contempt he had for himself so much as the agony of suffering that Braun must
endure if he should come to know.... The idea of it crucified him. He knew, only too well that
poor Braun would never avenge himself, that perhaps he would not even have the strength to
hate them: but what an utter wreck of all his life!... How would he regard him! Christophe
felt that he could not face the reproach in his eyes.--And it was inevitable that sooner or
later Braun would be warned. Did he not already suspect something? Seeing him again after his
fortnight's absence Christophe was struck by the change in him: Braun was not the same man.
His gaiety had disappeared, or there was something forced in it. At meals he would stealthily
glance at Anna, who talked not at all, ate not at all, and seemed to be burning away like the
oil in a lamp. With timid, touching kindness he tried to look after her: she rejected his attentions
harshly: then he bent his head over his plate and relapsed into silence. Anna could bear it
no longer, and flung her napkin on the table in the middle of the meal and left the room. The
two men finished their dinner in silence, or pretended to do so, for they ate nothing: they
dared not raise their eyes. When they had finished, Christophe was on the point of going when
Braun suddenly clasped his arm with both hands and said:

"Christophe!"

Christophe looked at him uneasily.

"Christophe," said Braun again--(his voice was shaking),--"do you know what's the matter with her?"

Christophe stood transfixed: for a moment or two he could find nothing to say. Braun stood
looking at him timidly: very quickly he begged his pardon:

"You see a good deal of her, she trusts you...."

Christophe was very near taking Braun's hands and kissing them and begging his forgiveness.
Braun saw Christophe's downcast expression, and, at once, he was terrified, and refused to
see: he cast him a beseeching look and stammered hurriedly and gasped:

"No, no. You know nothing? Nothing?"

Christophe was overwhelmed and said:

"No."

Oh! the bitterness of not being able to lay bare his offense, to humble himself, since to do
so would be to break the heart of the man he had wronged! Oh! the bitterness of being unable
to tell the truth, when he could see in the eyes of the man asking him for it, that he could
not, would not know the truth!...

"Thanks, thank you. I thank you...." said Braun.

He stayed with his hands plucking at Christophe's sleeve as though there was something else
he wished to ask, and yet dared not, avoiding his eyes. Then he let go, sighed, and went away.

Christophe was appalled by this new lie. He hastened to Anna. Stammering in his excitement,
he told her what had happened. Anna listened gloomily and said:

"Oh, well. He knows. What does it matter?"

"How can you talk like that?" cried Christophe. "It is horrible! I will not have him suffer,
whatever it may cost us, whatever it may cost."

Anna grew angry.

"And what if he does suffer? Don't I have to suffer? Let him suffer too!"

They said bitter things to each other. He accused her of loving only herself. She reproached
him with thinking more of her husband than of herself.

But a moment later, when he told her that he could not go on living like that, and that he
would go and tell the whole story to Braun, then she cried out on him for his selfishness,
declaring that she did not care a bit about Christophe's conscience, but was quite determined
that Braun should never know.

In spite of her hard words she was thinking as much of Braun as of Christophe. Though she had
no real affection for her husband she was fond of him. She had a religious respect for social
ties and the duties they involve. Perhaps she did not think that it was the duty of a wife
to be kind and to love her husband: but she did think that she was compelled scrupulously to
fulfil her household duties and to remain faithful. It seemed to her ignoble to fail in that
object as she herself had done.

And even more surely than Christophe she knew that Braun must know everything very soon. It
was something to her credit that she concealed the fact from Christophe, either because she
did not wish to add to his troubles or more probably because of her pride.

Secluded though the Braun household was, secret though the tragedy might remain that was being
enacted there, some hint of it had trickled away to the outer world.

In that town it was impossible for any one to flatter himself that the facts of his life were
hidden. This was strangely true. No one ever looked at anybody in the streets: the doors and
shutters of the houses were closed. But there were mirrors fastened in the corners of the windows:
and as one passed the houses one could hear the faint creaking of the Venetian shutters being
pushed open and shut again. Nobody took any notice of anybody else: everything and everybody
were apparently ignored: but it was not long before one perceived that not a single word, not
a single gesture had been unobserved: whatever one did, whatever one said, whatever one saw,
whatever one ate was known at once: even what one thought was known, or, at least, everybody
pretended to know. One was surrounded by a universal, mysterious watchfulness. Servants, tradespeople,
relations, friends, people who were neither friends nor enemies, passing strangers, all by
tacit agreement shared in this instinctive espionage, the scattered elements of which were
gathered to a head no one knew how. Not only were one's actions observed, but they probed into
one's inmost heart. In that town no man had the right to keep the secrets of his conscience,
and everybody had the right to rummage amongst his intimate thoughts, and, if they were offensive
to public opinion, to call him to account. The invisible despotism of the collective mind dominated
the individual: all his life he remained like a child in a state of tutelage: he could call
nothing his own: he belonged to the town.

It was enough for Anna to have stayed away from church two Sundays running to arouse suspicion.
As a rule no one seemed to notice her presence at service: she lived outside the life of the
place, and the town seemed to have forgotten her existence.--On the evening of the first Sunday
when she had stayed away her absence was known to everybody and docketed in their memory. On
the following Sunday not one of the pious people following the blessed words in their Bibles
or on the minister's lips seemed to be distracted from their solemn attention: not one of them
had failed to notice as they entered, and to verify as they left, the fact that Anna's place
was empty. Next day Anna began to receive visits from women she had not seen for many months:
they came on various pretexts, some fearing that she was ill, others assuming a new interest
in her affairs, her husband, her house: some of them showed a singularly intimate knowledge
of the doings of her household: not one of them--(with clumsy ingenuity)--made any allusion
to her absence from church on two Sundays running. Anna said that she was unwell and declared
that she was very busy. Her visitors listened attentively and applauded her: Anna knew that
they did not believe a word she said. Their eyes wandered round the room, prying, taking notes,
docketing. They did not for a moment drop their cold affability or their noisy affected chatter:
but their eyes revealed the indiscreet curiosity which was devouring them. Two or three with
exaggerated indifference inquired after M. Krafft.

A few days later--(during Christophe's absence),--the minister came himself. He was a handsome,
good-natured creature, splendidly healthy, affable, with that imperturbable tranquillity which
comes to a man from the consciousness of being in sole possession of the truth, the whole truth.
He inquired anxiously after the health of the members of his flock, politely and absently listened
to the excuses she gave him, which he had not asked for, accepted a cup of tea, made a mild
joke or two, expressed his opinion on the subject of drink that the wine referred to in the
Bible was not alcoholic liquor, produced several quotations, told a story, and, as he was leaving,
made a dark allusion to the danger of bad company, to certain excursions in the country, to
the spirit of impiety, to the impurity of dancing, and the filthy lusts of the flesh. He seemed
to be addressing his remarks to the age in general and not to Anna. He stopped for a moment,
coughed, got up, bade Anna give his respectful compliments to M. Braun, made a joke in Latin,
bowed, and took his leave.--Anna was left frozen by his allusion. Was it an allusion? How could
he have known about her excursion with Christophe? They had not met a soul of their acquaintance
that day. But was not everything known in the town? The musician with the remarkable face and
the young woman in black who had danced at the inn had attracted much attention: their descriptions
had been spread abroad; and, as the story was bandied from mouth to mouth, it had reached the
town where the watchful malice of the gossips had not failed to recognize Anna. No doubt it
amounted as yet to no more than a suspicion, but it was singularly attractive, and it was augmented
by information supplied by Anna's maid. Public curiosity had been a-tip-toe, waiting for them
to compromise each other, spying on them with a thousand invisible eyes. The silent crafty
people of the town were creeping close upon them, like a cat lying in wait for a mouse.

In spite of the danger Anna would in all probability not have given in: perhaps her consciousness
of such cowardly hostility would have driven her to some desperate act of provocation if she
had not herself been possessed by the Pharisaic spirit of the society which was so antagonistic
to her. Her education had subjugated her nature. It was in vain that she condemned the tyranny
and meanness of public opinion: she respected it: she subscribed to its decrees even when they
were directed against herself: if they had come into conflict with her conscience, she would
have sacrificed her conscience. She despised the town: but she could not have borne the town
to despise herself.

Now the time was coming when the public scandal would be afforded an opportunity of discharging
itself. The carnival was coming on.

       *       *       *       *       *

In that city, the carnival had preserved up to the time of the events narrated in this history--(it
has changed since then)--a character of archaic license and roughness. Faithfully in accordance
with its origin, by which it had been a relaxation for the profligacy of the human mind subjugated,
wilfully or involuntarily, by reason, it nowhere reached such a pitch of audacity as in the
periods and countries in which custom and law, the guardians of reason, weighed most heavily
upon the people. The town in which Anna lived was therefore one of its most chosen regions.
The more moral stringency paralyzed action and gagged speech, the bolder did action become
and speech the more untrammeled during those few days. Everything that was secreted away in
the lower depths of the soul, jealousy, secret hate, lewd curiosity, the malicious instincts
inherent in the social animal, would burst forth with all the vehemence and joy of revenge.
Every man had the right to go out into the streets, and, prudently masked, to nail to the pillory,
in full view of the public gaze, the object of his detestation, to lay before all and sundry
all that he had found out by a year of patient industry, his whole hoard of scandalous secrets
gathered drop by drop. One man would display them on the cars. Another would carry a transparent
lantern on which were pasted in writings and drawings the secret history of the town. Another
would go so far as to wear a mask in imitation of his enemy, made so easily recognizable that
the very gutter-snipes would point him out by name. Slanderous newspapers would appear during
the three days. Even the very best people would craftily take part in the game of Pasquino.
No control was exercised except over political allusions,--such coarse liberty of speech having
on more than one occasion produced fierce conflict between the authorities of the town and
the representatives of foreign countries. But there was nothing to protect the citizens against
the citizens, and this cloud of public insult, constantly hanging over their heads, did not
a little help to maintain the apparently impeccable morality on which the town prided itself.

Anna felt the weight of that dread--which was quite unjustified. She had very little reason
to be afraid. She occupied too small a place in the opinion of the town for any one to think
of attacking her. But in the absolute isolation in which of her own choice she lived, in her
state of exhaustion and nervous excitement brought on by several weeks of sleepless nights
and moral suffering, her imagination was apt to welcome the most unreasoning terrors. She exaggerated
the animosity of those who did not like her. She told herself that suspicion was on her track:
the veriest trifle was enough to ruin her: and there was nothing to assure her that it was
not already an accomplished fact. It would mean insult, pitiless exposure, her heart laid bare
to the mockery of the passers-by: dishonor so cruel that Anna was near dying of shame at the
very thought of it. She called to mind how, a few years before, a girl, who had been the victim
of such persecution, had had to fly the country with her family.... And she could do nothing,
nothing to defend herself, nothing to prevent it, nothing even to find out if it was going
to happen. The suspense was even more maddening than the certainty. Anna looked desperately
about her like an animal at bay. In her own house she knew that she was hemmed in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anna's servant was a woman of over forty: her name was Babi: she was tall and strong: her face
was narrow and bony round her brow and temples, wide and long in the lower part, fleshy under
the jaw, roughly pear-shaped: she had a perpetual smile and eyes that pierced like gimlets,
sunken, as though they had been sucked in, beneath red eyelids with colorless lashes. She never
put off her expression of coquettish gaiety: she was always delighted with her superiors, always
of their opinion, worrying about their health with tender interest: smiling when they gave
her orders: smiling when they scolded her. Braun believed that she was unshakably devoted.
Her gushing manner was strongly in contrast with Anna's coldness. However, she was like her
in many things: like her she spoke little and dressed in a severe neat style: like her she
was very pious, and went to service with her, scrupulously fulfilling all her religious duties
and nicely attending to her household tasks: she was clean, methodical, and her morals and
her kitchen were beyond reproach. In a word she was an exemplary servant and the perfect type
of domestic foe. Anna's feminine instinct was hardly ever wrong in her divination of the secret
thoughts of women, and she had no illusions about her. They detested each other, knew it, and
never let it appear.

On the night of Christophe's return, when Anna, torn by her desire and her emotion, went to
him once more in spite of her resolve never to see him again, she walked stealthily, groping
along the wall in the darkness: just as she reached Christophe's door, instead of the ordinary
cold smooth polished floor, she felt a warm dust softly crunching under her bare feet. She
stooped, touched it with her hands, and understood: a thin layer of ashes had been spread for
the space of a few yards across the passage. Without knowing it Babi had happed on the old
device employed in the days of the old Breton songs by Frocin the dwarf to catch Tristan on
his way to Yseult: so true it is that a limited number of types, good and bad, serve for all
ages. A remarkable piece of evidence in favor of the wise economy of the universe!--Anna did
not hesitate; she did not stop or turn, but went on in a sort of contemptuous bravado: she
went to Christophe, told him nothing, in spite of her uneasiness: but when she returned she
took the stove brush and carefully effaced every trace of her footsteps in the ashes, after
she had crossed over them.--When Anna and Babi met next day it was with the usual coldness
and the accustomed smile.

Babi used sometimes to receive a visit from a relation who was a little older than herself:
he fulfilled the function of beadle of the church: during Gottesdienst (Divine service) he
used to stand sentinel at the church door, wearing a white armlet with black stripes and a
silver tassel, leaning on a cane with a curved handle. By trade he was an undertaker. His name
was Sami Witschi. He was very tall and thin, with a slight stoop, and he had the clean-shaven
solemn face of an old peasant. He was very pious and knew better than any one all the tittle-tattle
of the parish. Babi and Sami were thinking of getting married: they appreciated each other's
serious qualities, and solid faith and malice. But they were in no hurry to make up their minds:
they prudently took stock of each other,--Latterly Sami's visits had become more frequent.
He would come in unawares. Every time Anna went near the kitchen and looked through the door,
she would see Sami sitting near the fire, and Babi a few yards away, sewing. However much they
talked, it was impossible to hear a sound. She could see Babi's beaming face and her lips moving:
Sami's wide hard mouth would stretch in a grin without opening: not a sound would come up from
his throat: the house seemed to be lost in silence. Whenever Anna entered the kitchen, Sami
would rise respectfully and remain standing, without a word, until she had gone out again.
Whenever Babi heard the door open, she would ostentatiously break off in the middle of a commonplace
remark, and turn to Anna with an obsequious smile and wait for her orders. Anna would think
they were talking about her: but she despised them too much to play the eavesdropper.

The day after Anna had dodged the ingenious trap of the ashes, as she entered the kitchen,
the first thing she saw in Sami's hand was the little broom she had used the night before to
wipe out the marks of her bare feet. She had taken it out of Christophe's room, and that very
minute, she suddenly remembered that she had forgotten to take it back again; she had left
it in her own room, where Babi's sharp eyes had seen it at once. The two gossips had immediately
put two and two together. Anna did not flinch. Babi followed her mistress's eyes, gave an exaggerated
smile, and explained:

"The broom was broken: I gave it to Sami to mend."

Anna did not take the trouble to point out the gross falsehood of the excuse: she did not seem
even to hear it: she looked at Babi's work, made a few remarks, and went out again impassively.
But when the door was closed she lost all her pride: she could not help hiding behind the corner
of the passage and listening--(she was humiliated to the very depths of her being at having
to stoop to such means: but fear mastered her).--She heard a dry chuckle of laughter. Then
whispering, so low that she could not make out what was said. But in her desperation Anna thought
she heard: her terror breathed into her ears the words she was afraid of hearing: she imagined
that they were speaking of the coming masquerades and a charivari. There was no doubt: they
would try to introduce the episode of the ashes. Probably she was wrong: but in her state of
morbid excitement, having for a whole fortnight been haunted by the fixed idea of public insult,
she did not stop to consider whether the uncertain could be possible: she regarded it as certain.

From that time on her mind was made up.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the evening of the same day--(it was the Wednesday preceding the carnival)--Braun was called
away to a consultation twenty miles out of the town: he would not return until the next morning.
Anna did not come down to dinner and stayed in her room. She had chosen that night to carry
out the tacit pledge she had made with herself. But she had decided to carry it out alone,
and to say nothing to Christophe. She despised him. She thought:

"He promised. But he is a man, he is an egoist and a liar. He has his art. He will soon forget."

And then perhaps there was in her passionate heart that seemed so inaccessible to kindness,
room for a feeling of pity for her companion. But she was too harsh and too passionate to admit
it to herself.

Babi told Christophe that her mistress had bade her to make her excuses as she was not very
well and wished to rest. Christophe dined alone under Babi's supervision, and she bored him
with her chatter, tried to make him talk, and protested such an extraordinary devotion to Anna,
that, in spite of his readiness to believe in the good faith of men, Christophe became suspicious.
He was counting on having a decisive interview with Anna that night. He could no more postpone
matters than she. He had not forgotten the pledge they had given each other at the dawn of
that sad day. He was ready to keep it if Anna demanded it of him. But he saw the absurdity
of their dying together, how it would not solve the problem, and how the sorrow of it and the
scandal must fall upon Braun's shoulders. He was inclined to think that the best thing to do
was to tear themselves apart and for him to try once more to go right away,--to see at least
if he were strong enough to stay away from her: he doubted it after the vain attempt he had
made before: but he thought that, in case he could not bear it, he would still have time to
turn to the last resort, alone, without anybody knowing.

He hoped that after supper he would be able to escape for a moment to go up to Anna's room.
But Babi dogged him. As a rule she used to finish her work early: but that night she seemed
never to have done with scrubbing her kitchen: and when Christophe thought he was rid of her,
she took it into her head to tidy a cupboard in the passage leading to Anna's room. Christophe
found her standing on a stool, and he saw that she had no intention of moving all evening.
He felt a furious desire to knock her over with her piles of plates: but he restrained himself
and asked her to go and see how her mistress was and if he could say good-night to her. Babi
went, returned, and said, as she watched him with a malicious joy, that Madame was better and
was asleep and did not want anybody to disturb her. Christophe tried irritably and nervously
to read, but could not, and went up to his room. Babi watched his light until it was put out,
and then went upstairs to her room, resolving to keep watch: she carefully left her door open
so that she could hear every sound in the house. Unfortunately for her, she could not go to
bed without at once falling asleep and sleeping so soundly that not thunder, not even her own
curiosity, could wake her up before daybreak. Her sound sleep Was no secret. The echo of it
resounded through the house even to the lower floor.

As soon as Christophe heard the familiar noise he went to Anna's room. It was imperative that
he should speak to her. He was profoundly uneasy. He reached her door, turned the handle: the
door was locked. He knocked lightly: no reply. He placed his lips to the keyhole and begged
her in a whisper, then more loudly, to open: not a movement, not a sound. Although he told
himself that Anna was asleep, he was in agonies. And as, in a vain attempt to hear, he laid
his cheek against the door, a smell came to his nostrils which seemed to be issuing from the
room: he bent down and recognised it; it was the smell of gas. His blood froze. He shook the
door, never thinking that he might wake Babi: the door did not give.... He understood: in her
dressing-room, which led out of her room, Anna had a little gas-stove: she had turned it on.
He must break open the door: but in his anxiety Christophe kept his senses enough to remember
that at all costs Babi must not hear. He leaned against one of the leaves of the door and gave
an enormous shove as quietly as he could. The solid, well-fitting door creaked on its hinges,
but did not yield. There was another door which led from Anna's room to Braun's dressing-room.
He ran to it. That too was locked: but the lock was outside. He started to tug it off. It was
not easy. He had to remove the four big screws which were buried deep in the wood. He had only
his knife and he could not see: for he dared not light a candle; it would have meant blowing
the whole place up. Fumblingly he managed to fit his knife, into the head of a screw, then
another, breaking the blades and cutting himself; the screws seemed to be interminably long,
and he thought he would never be able to get them out: and, at the same time, in the feverish
haste which was making big body break out into a cold sweat, there came to his mind a memory
of his childhood: he saw himself, a boy of ten, shut up in a dark room as a punishment: he
had taken off the lock and run out of the house.... The last screw came out. The lock gave
with a crackling noise like the sawing of wood. Christophe plunged into the room, rushed to
the window, and opened it. A flood of cold air swept in. Christophe bumped into the furniture
in the dark and came to the bed, groped with his hands, and came on Anna's body, tremblingly
felt her legs lying still under the clothes, and moved his hands up to her waist: Anna was
sitting up in bed, trembling. She had not had time to feel the first effects of asphyxiation:
the room was high: the air came through the chinks in the windows and the doors, Christophe
caught her in his arms. She broke away from him angrily, crying:

"Go away!... Ah! What have you done?"

She raised her hands to strike him: but she was worn out with emotion: she fell back on her
pillow and sobbed:

"Oh! Oh! We've to go through it all over again!"

Christophe took her hands in his, kissed her, scolded her, spoke to her tenderly and roughly:

"You were going to die, to die, alone, without me!"

"Oh! You!" she said bitterly.

Her tone was as much as to say:

"You want to live."

He spoke harshly to her and tried to break down her will.

"You are mad!" he said. "You might have blown the house to pieces!" "I wanted to," she said
angrily.

He tried to play on her religious fears: that was the right note. As soon as he touched on
it she began to scream and to beg him to stop. He went on pitilessly, thinking that it was
the only means of bringing her back to the desire to live. She said nothing more, but lay sobbing
convulsively. When he had done, she said in a tone of intense hatred:

"Are you satisfied now? You've done your work well. You've brought me to despair. And now,
what am I to do?"

"Live," he said.

"Live!" she cried. "You don't know how impossible it is! You know nothing! You know nothing!"

He asked:

"What is it?"

She shrugged her shoulders:

"Listen."

In a few brief disconnected sentences she told him all that she had concealed from him: Babi's
spying on her, the ashes, the scene with Sami, the carnival, the public insult that was before
her. As she told her story she was unable to distinguish between the figments of her fear and
what she had any reason to fear. He listened in utter consternation, and was no more capable
than she of discerning between the real and the imaginary in her story. Nothing had ever been
farther from his mind than to suspect how they were being dogged. He tried to understand: he
could find nothing to say: against such enemies he was disarmed. Only he was conscious of a
blind fury, a desire to strike and to destroy. He said:

"Why didn't you dismiss Babi?"

She did not deign to reply. Babi dismissed would have been even more venomous than Babi tolerated:
and Christophe saw the idiocy of his question. His thoughts were in a whirl: he was trying
to discover a way out, some immediate action upon which to engage. He clenched his fists and cried:

"I'll kill them?"

"Who?" she said, despising him for his futile words.

He lost all power of thought or action. He felt that he was lost in such a network of obscure
treachery, in which it was impossible to clutch at anything since all were parties to it. He
writhed.

"Cowards!" he cried, in sheer despair.

He slipped down on to his knees and buried his face against Anna.--They were silent for a little.
She felt a mixture of contempt and pity for the man who could defend neither himself nor her.
He felt Anna's limbs trembling with cold against his cheek. The window had been left open,
and outside it was freezing: they could see the icy stars shivering in the sky that was smooth
and gleaming as a mirror.

When she had fully tasted the bitter joy of seeing him as broken as herself, she said in a
hard, weary voice:

"Light the candle."

He did so. Anna's teeth were chattering, she was sitting huddled up, with her arms tight folded
across her chest and her knees up to her chin. He closed the window. Then he sat on the bed.
He laid his hands on Anna's feet: they were cold as ice, and he warmed them with his hands
and lips. She was softened.

"Christophe!" she said.

Her eyes were pitiful to see.

"Anna!" said he.

"What are we going to do?"

He looked at her and replied:

"Die."

She gave a cry of joy.

"Oh! You will? You will?... I shall not be alone!"

She kissed him.

"Did you think I was going to let you?"

She replied in a whisper:

"Yes."

A few moments later he questioned her with his eyes. She understood.

"In the bureau," she said. "On the right. The bottom drawer."

He went and looked. At the back of the drawer he found a revolver. Braun had bought it as a
student. He had never made use of it. In an open box Christophe found some cartridges. He took
them to the bed. Anna looked at them, and at once turned her eyes away to the wall.

Christophe waited, and then asked:

"You don't want to...?"

Anna turned abruptly:

"I will.... Quick!"

She thought:

"Nothing can save me now from the everlasting pit. A little more or less, it will be just the
same."

Christophe awkwardly loaded the revolver.

"Anna," he said, and his voice trembled. "One of us will see the other die."

She wrenched the pistol out of his hands and said selfishly:

"I shall be the first."

They looked at each other once more.... Alas! At the very moment when they were to die for
each other they felt so far apart!... Each was thinking in terror:

"What am I doing? What am I doing?"

And each was reading the other's eyes. The absurdity of the thing was what struck Christophe
most. All his life gone for nothing: vain his struggles: vain his suffering: vain his hopes:
all botched, flung to the winds: one foolish act was to wipe all away.... In his normal state
he would have wrenched the revolver away from Anna and flung it out of the window and cried:

"No, no! I will not."

But eight months of suffering, of doubt and torturing grief, and on top of that the whirlwind
of their crazy passion, had wasted his strength and broken his will: he felt that he could
do nothing now, that he was no longer master of himself.... Ah! what did it matter, after all?

Anna, feeling certain that she was doomed to everlasting death, stretched every nerve to catch
and hold the last minute of her life: Christophe's sorrowful face lit by the flickering candle,
the shadows on the wall, a footstep in the street, the cold contact of the steel in her hand....
She clung to these sensations, as a shipwrecked man clings to the spar that sinks beneath his
weight. Afterwards all was terror. Why not prolong the time of waiting? But she said to herself:

"I must...."

She said good-by to Christophe, with no tenderness, with the haste of a hurried traveler fearful
of losing the train: she bared her bosom, felt for her heart, and laid the mouth of the revolver
against it. Christophe hid his face. Just as she was about to fire she laid her left hand on
Christophe's. It was the gesture of a child dreading to walk in the darkness....

Then a few frightful seconds passed.... Anna did not fire. Christophe wanted to raise his head,
to take her in his arms: and he was afraid that his very movement might bring her to the point
of firing. He heard nothing more: he lost consciousness.... A groan from Anna pierced his heart.
He got up. He saw Anna with her face distorted in terror. The revolver had fallen down on to
the bed. She kept on saying plaintively;

"Christophe!... It has missed fire!..."

He took the pistol: it had lain long forgotten and had grown rusty: but the trigger was in
working order. Perhaps the cartridges had gone bad with exposure to the air.--Anna held out
her hand for the revolver.

"Enough! Enough!" he implored her.

She commanded him:

"The cartridges!"

He gave them to her. She examined them, took one, loaded the pistol, trembling, put the pistol
to her breast, and fired.--Once more it missed fire.

Anna flung the revolver out into the room.

"Oh! It is horrible, horrible!" she cried. "He will not let me die!"

She writhed and sobbed: she was like a madwoman. He tried to touch her: she beat him off, screaming.
Finally she had a nervous attack. Christophe stayed with her until morning. At last she was
pacified: but she lay still and breathless, with her eyes closed and the livid skin stretched
tight over the bones of her forehead and cheeks: she looked like one dead.

Christophe repaired the disorder of her bed, picked up the revolver, fastened on the lock he
had wrenched away, tidied up the whole room., and went away: for it was seven o'clock and Babi
might come at any moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Braun returned next morning he found Anna in the same prostrate condition. He saw that
something extraordinary had happened: but he could glean nothing either from Babi or Christophe.
All day long Anna did not stir: she did not open her eyes: her pulse was so weak that he could
hardly feel it: every now and then it would stop, and, for a moment, Braun would be in a state
of agony, thinking that her heart had stopped. His affection made him doubt his own knowledge:
he ran and fetched a colleague. The two men examined Anna and could not make up their minds
whether it was the beginning of a fever, or a case of nervous hysteria: they had to keep the
patient under observation. Braun never left Anna's bedside. He refused to eat. Towards evening
Anna's pulse gave no signs of fever, but was extremely weak. Braun tried to force a few spoonfuls
of milk between her lips: she brought it back at once. Her body lay limp in her husband's arms
like a broken doll. Braun spent the night with her, getting up every moment to listen to her
breathing. Babi, who was hardly at all put out by Anna's illness, played the devoted servant
and refused to go to bed and sat up with Braun.

On the Friday Anna opened her eyes. Braun spoke to her: she took no notice of him. She lay
quite still with her eyes staring at a mark on the wall. About midday Braun saw great tears
trickling down her thin cheeks: he dried them gently: one by one the tears went on trickling
down. Once more Braun tried to make her take some food. She took it passively. In the evening
she began to talk: loose snatches of sentences. She talked about the Rhine: she had tried to
drown herself, but there was not enough water. In her dreams she persisted in attempting suicide,
imagining all sorts of strange forms of death; always death was at the back of her thoughts.
Sometimes she was arguing with some one, and then her face would take on an expression of fear
and anger: she addressed herself to God, and tried obstinately to prove that it was all His
fault. Or the flame of desire would kindle in her eyes, and she would say shameless things
which it seemed impossible that she should know. Once she saw Babi, and gave precise orders
for the morrow's washing. At night she dozed. Suddenly she got up: Braun ran to her. She looked
at him strangely, and babbled impatient formless words. He asked her:

"My dear Anna, what do you want?"

She said harshly:

"Go and bring him."

"Who?" he asked.

She looked at him once more with the same expression and suddenly burst out laughing: then
she drew her hands over her forehead and moaned:

"Oh! my God! Let me forget!..."

Sleep overcame her. She was at peace until day. About dawn she moved a little: Braun raised
her head to give her to drink: she gulped down a few mouthfuls, and, stooping to Braun's hands,
she kissed them. Once more she dozed off.

On the Saturday morning she woke up about nine o'clock. Without saying a word, she began to
slip out of bed. Braun went quickly to her and tried to make her lie down again. She insisted.
He asked her what she wanted to do. She replied:

"Go to church."

He tried to argue with her and to remind her that it was not Sunday and the church was closed.
She relapsed into silence: but she sat in a chair near the bed, and began to put on her clothes
with trembling fingers. Braun's doctor-friend came in. He joined Braun in his entreaties: then,
seeing that she would not give in, he examined her, and finally consented. He took Braun aside,
and told him that his wife's illness seemed to be altogether moral, and that for the time being
he must avoid opposing her wishes, and that he could see no danger in her going out, so long
as Braun went with her. Braun told Anna that he would go with her. She refused, and insisted
on going alone. But she stumbled as soon as she tried to walk across the room. Then, without
a word, she took Braun's arm, and they went out. She was very weak, and kept stopping. Several
times he asked her if she wanted to go home. She began to walk on. When they reached the church,
as he had told her, they found the doors closed. Anna sat down on a bench near the door, and
stayed, shivering, until the clock struck twelve. Then she took Braun's arm again, and they
came home in silence. But in the evening she wanted to go to church again. Braun's entreaties
were useless. He had to go out with her once more.

Christophe had spent the two days alone. Braun was too anxious to think about him. Only once,
on the Saturday morning, when he was trying to divert Anna's mind from her fixed idea of going
out, he had asked her if she would like to see Christophe. She had looked at him with such
an expression of fear and loathing that he could not but remark it: and he never pronounced
Christophe's name again.

Christophe had shut himself up in his room. Anxiety, love, remorse, a very chaos of sorrow
was whirling in him. He blamed himself for everything. He was overwhelmed by self-disgust.
More than once he had got up to go and confess the whole story to Braun--and each time he had
immediately been arrested by the thought of bringing wretchedness to yet another human being
by his self-accusation. At the same time he was spared nothing of his passion. He prowled about
in the passage outside Anna's room; and when he heard footsteps inside coming to the door he
rushed away to his own room.

When Braun and Anna went out in the afternoon, he looked out for them from behind his window-curtains.
He saw Anna. She who had been so erect and proud walked now with bowed back, lowered head,
yellow complexion: she was an old woman bending under the weight of the cloak and shawl her
husband had thrown about her: she was ugly. But Christophe did not see her ugliness: he saw
only her misery; and his heart ached with pity and love. He longed to run to her, to prostrate
himself in the mud, to kiss her feet: her dear body so broken and destroyed by passion, and
to implore her forgiveness. And he thought as he looked after her:

"My work.... That is what I have done!"

But when he looked into the mirror and saw his own face, he was shown the same devastation
in his eyes, in all his features: he saw the marks of death upon himself, as upon her, and
he thought:

"My work? No. It is the work of the cruel Master who drives us mad and destroys us."

The house was empty. Babi had gone out to tell the neighbors of the day's events. Time was
passing. The clock struck five. Christophe was filled with terror as he thought of Anna's return
and the coming of the night. He felt that he could not bear to stay under the same roof with
her for another night. He felt his reason breaking beneath the weight of passion. He did not
know what to do, he did not know what he wanted, except that he wanted Anna at all costs. He
thought of the wretched face he had just seen going past his window, and he said to himself:

"I must save her from myself!..."

His will stirred into life.

He gathered together the litter of papers on the table, tied them up, took his hat and cloak,
and went out. In the passage, near the door of Anna's room, he hurried forward in a spasm of
fear. Downstairs he glanced for the last time into the empty garden. He crept away like a thief
in the night. An icy mist pricked his face and hands. Christophe skirted the walls of the houses,
dreading a meeting with any one he knew. He went to the station, and got into a train which
was just starting for Lucerne. At the first stopping-place he wrote to Braun. He said that
he had been called away from the town on urgent business for a few days, and that he was very
sorry to have to leave him at such a time: he begged him to send him news, and gave him an
address. At Lucerne he took the St. Gothard train. Late at night he got out at a little station
between Altorf and Goeschenen. He did not know the name, never knew it. He went into the nearest
inn by the station. The road was filled with pools of water. It was raining in torrents: it
rained all night and all next day. The water was rushing and roaring like a cataract from a
broken gutter. Sky and earth were drowned, seemingly dissolved and melted like his own mind.
He went to bed between damp sheets which smelt of railway smoke. He could not lie still. The
idea of the danger hanging over Anna was too much in his mind for him to feel his own suffering
as yet. Somehow he must avert public malignity from her, somehow turn it aside upon another
track. In his feverish condition a queer idea came to him: he decided to write to one of the
few musicians with whom he had been acquainted in the little town, Krebs, the confectioner-organist.
He gave him to understand that he was off to Italy upon an affair of the heart, that he had
been possessed by the passion when he first took up his abode with the Brauns, and that he
had tried to shake free of it, but it had been too strong for him. He put the whole thing clearly
enough for Krebs to understand, and yet so veiled as to enable him to improve on it as he liked.
Christophe implored Krebs to keep his secret. He knew that the good little man simply could
not keep anything to himself, and--quite rightly--he reckoned on Krebs hastening to spread
the news as soon as it came into his hands. To make sure of hoodwinking the gossips of the
town Christophe closed his letter with a few cold remarks about Braun and about Anna's illness.

He spent the rest of the night and the next day absorbed by his fixed Idea.... Anna.... Anna....
He lived through the last few months with her, day by day: he did not see her as she was, but
enveloped her with a passionate atmosphere of illusion. From the very beginning he had created
her in the image of his own desire, and given her a moral grandeur, a tragic consciousness
which he needed to heighten his love for her. These lies of passion gained in intensity of
conviction now that they were beyond the control of Anna's presence. He saw in her a healthy
free nature, oppressed, struggling to shake off its fetters, reaching upwards to a wider life
of liberty in the open air of the soul, and then, fearful of it, struggling against her dreams,
wrestling with them, because they could not be brought into line with her destiny, and made
it only the more sorrowful and wretched. She cried to him: "Help me." He saw once more her
beautiful body, clasped it to him. His memories tortured him: he took a savage delight in mortifying
the wounds they dealt him. As the day crept on, the feeling of all that he had lost became
so frightful that he could not breathe.

Without knowing what he was doing, he got up, went out, paid his bill, and took the first train
back to the town in which Anna lived. He arrived in the middle of the night: he went straight
to the house. There was a wall between the alley and the garden next to Braun's. Christophe
climbed the wall, jumped down into the next-door garden, and then into Braun's. He stood outside
the house. It was in darkness save for a night-light which cast a yellow glow upon a window--the
window of Anna's room. Anna was there. She was suffering. He had only to make one stride to
enter. He laid his hand on the handle of the door. Then he looked at his hand, the door, the
garden: suddenly he realized what he was doing: and, breaking free of the hallucination which
had been upon him for the last seven or eight hours, he groaned, wrenched free of the inertia
which held him riveted to the ground whereon he stood, ran to the wall, scaled it, and fled.

    "Leva'mi allor, mostrandomi fornito
    Meglio di lena ch'io non mi sentia;
    E dissi: 'Va, ch'io son forte edardito.'"

    INF. XXIV.

Oh! God, what have I done to Thee? Why dost Thou overwhelm me? Since I was a little child Thou
hast appointed misery and conflict to be my lot. I have struggled without complaint. I have
loved my misery. I have tried to preserve the purity of the soul Thou gavest me, to defend
the fire which Thou hast kindled in me.... Lord, it is Thou, it is Thou who art so furious
to destroy what Thou hast created. Thou hast put out the fire, Thou hast besmirched my soul.
Thou hast despoiled me of all that gave me life. I had but two treasurable things in the world:
my friend and my soul. Now I have nothing, for Thou hast taken everything from me. One only
creature was mine in the wilderness of the world: Thou hast taken him from me. Our hearts were
one. Thou hast torn them asunder: Thou hast made us know the sweetness of being together only
to make us know the horror of being lost to each other. Thou hast created emptiness all about
me. Thou hast created emptiness within me. I was broken and sick, unarmed and robbed of my
will. Thou hast chosen that hour to strike me down. Thou hast come stealthily with silent feet
from behind treacherously, and Thou hast stabbed me: Thou hast let loose upon me Thy fierce
dogs of passion; I was weak, and Thou knewest it, and I could not struggle: passion has laid
me low, and thrown me into confusion, and befouled me, and destroyed all that I had.... I am
left only in self-disgust. If I could only cry aloud my grief and my shame! or forget them
in the rushing stream of creative force! But my strength is broken, and my creative power is
withered up. I am like a dead tree.... Would I were dead! O God, deliver me, break my body
and my soul, tear me from this earth, leave me not to struggle blindly in the pit, leave me
not in this endless agony! I cry for mercy.... Lord, make an end!

       *       *       *       *       *

So in his sorrow Christophe cried upon a God in whom his reason did not believe.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had taken refuge in a lonely farm in the Swiss Jura Mountains. The house was built in the
woods tucked away in the folds of a high humpy plateau. It was protected from the north winds
by crags and boulders. In front of it lay a wide stretch of fields, and long wooded slopes:
the rock suddenly came to an end in a sheer precipice: twisted pines hung on the edge of it;
behind were wide-spreading beeches. The sky was blotted out. There was no sign of life. A wide
stretch of country with all its lines erased. The whole place lay sleeping under the snow.
Only at night in the forest foxes barked. It was the end of the winter. Slow dragging winter.
Interminable winter. When it seemed like to break up, snow would fall once more, and it would
begin again.

However, for a week now the old slumbering earth had felt its heart slow beating to new birth.
The first deceptive breath of spring crept into the air and beneath the frozen crust. From
the branches of the beech-trees, stretched out like soaring wings, the snow melted. Already
through the white cloak of the fields there peered a few thin blades of grass of tender green:
around their sharp needles, through the gaps in the snow, like so many little mouths, the dank
black earth was breathing. For a few hours every day the voice of the waters, sleeping beneath
their robe of ice, murmured. In the skeleton woods a few birds piped their shrill clear song.

Christophe noticed nothing. All things were the same to him. He paced up and down, up and down
his room. Or be would walk outside. He could not keep still. His soul was torn in pieces by
inward demons. They fell upon and rent each other. His suppressed passion never left off beating
furiously against the walls of the house of its captivity. His disgust with passion was no
less furiously in revolt: passion and disgust flew at each other's throats, and, in their conflict,
they lacerated his heart. And at the same time he was delivered up to the memory of Olivier,
despair at his death, the hunger to create which nothing could satisfy, and pride rearing on
the edge of the abyss of nothingness. He was a prey to all devils. He had no moment of respite.
Or, if there came a seeming calm, if the rushing waves did fall back for a moment, it was only
that he might find himself alone, and nothing in himself: thought, love, will, all had been
done to death.

To create! That was the only loophole. To abandon the wreck of his life to the mercy of the
waves! To save himself by swimming in the dreams of art!... To create! He tried.... He could not.

Christophe had never had any method of working. When he was strong and well he had always rather
suffered from his superabundance than been disturbed at seeing it diminish: he followed his
whim: he used to work first as the fancy took him, as circumstances chanced, with no fixed
rule. As a matter of fact, he was always working everywhere: his brain was always busy. Often
and often Olivier, who was less richly endowed and more reflective, had warned him:

"Take care. You are trusting too much to your force. It is a mountain torrent. Full to-day,
perhaps dry to-morrow. An artist must coax his genius: he must not let it scatter itself at
random. Turn your force into a channel. Train yourself in habits of mind and a healthy system
of daily work, at fixed hours. They are as necessary to the artist as the practice of military
movements and steps to a man who is to go into battle. When moments of crisis come--(and they
always do come)--the bracing of steel prevents the soul from destruction. I know. It is just
that that has saved me from death."

But Christophe used to laugh and say:

"That's all right for you, my boy I There's no danger of my losing my taste for life. My appetite's
too good."

Olivier would shrug his shoulders:

"Too much ends in too little. There are no worse invalids than the men who have always had
too much health."

And now Olivier's words had come true. After the death of his friend the source of his inward
life had not all at once dried up: but it had become strangely intermittent: it flowed in sudden
gushes, then stopped, then disappeared under the earth. Christophe had paid no heed to it:
what did it matter to him? His grief and his budding passion had absorbed his mind.--But after
the storm had passed, when once more he, turned to the fountain to drink, he could find no
trace of it. All was barren. Not a trickle of water. His soul was dried up. In vain did he
try to dig down into the sand, and force the water up from the subterranean wells, and create
at all costs: the machine of his mind refused to obey. He could not invoke the aid of habit,
the faithful ally, which, when we have lost every reason for living, alone, constant and firmly
loyal, stays with us, and speaks no word, and makes no sign, but with eyes fixed, and silent
lips, with its sure unwavering hand leads us by the hand through the dangerous chasm until
the light of day and the joy of life return. Christophe was helpless: and his hand could find
no guiding hand in the darkness. He could not find his way back to the light of day.

It was the supreme test. Then he felt that he was on the verge of madness. Sometimes he would
wage an absurd and crazy battle with his own brain, maniacal obsessions, a nightmare of numbers:
he would count the boards on the floor, the trees in the forest: figures and chords, the choice
of which was beyond his reason. Sometimes he would lie in a state of prostration, like one dead.

Nobody worried about him. He lived apart in one wing of the house. He tidied his own room--or
left it undone, every day. His meals were laid for him downstairs: he never saw a human face.
His host, an old peasant, a taciturn, selfish creature, took no interest in him. Whether Christophe
ate or did not eat was his affair. He hardly ever noticed whether Christophe came in at night.
Once he was lost in the forest, buried up to his hips in the snow: he was very near never returning.
He tried to wear himself out to keep himself from thinking. He could not succeed. Only now
and then could he snatch a few hours of troubled sleep.

Only one living creature seemed to take any notice of his existence: this was an old St. Bernard,
who used to come and lay his big head with its mournful eyes on Christophe's knees when Christophe
was sitting on the seat in front of the house. They would look long at each other. Christophe
would not drive him away. Unlike the sick Goethe, the dog's eyes had no uneasiness for him.
Unlike him, he had no desire to cry:

"Go away!... Thou goblin, thou shalt not catch me, whatever thou doest!"

He asked nothing better than to be engrossed by the dog's suppliant sleepy eyes and to help
the beast: he felt that there must be behind them an imprisoned soul imploring his aid.

In those hours when he was weak with suffering, torn alive away from life, devoid of human
egoism, he saw the victims of men, the field of battle in which man triumphed in the bloody
slaughter of all other creatures: and his heart was filled with pity and horror. Even in the
days when he had been happy he had always loved the beasts: he had never been able to bear
cruelty towards them: he had always had a detestation of sport, which he had never dared to
express for fear of ridicule: perhaps even he had never dared to admit it to himself: but his
feeling of repulsion had been the secret cause of the apparently inexplicable feeling of dislike
he had had for certain men: he had never been able to admit to his friendship a man who could
kill an animal for pleasure. It was not sentimentality: no one knew better than he that life
is based on suffering and infinite cruelty: no man can live without making others suffer. It
is no use closing our eyes and fobbing ourselves off with words. It is no use either coming
to the conclusion that we must renounce life and sniveling like children. No. We must kill
to live, if, at the time, there is no other means of living. But the man who kills for the
sake of killing is a miscreant. An unconscious miscreant, I know. But, all the same, a miscreant.
The continual endeavor of man should be to lessen the sum of suffering and cruelty: that is
the first duty of humanity.

In ordinary life those ideas remained buried in Christophe's inmost heart. He refused to think
of them. What was the good? What could he do? He had to be Christophe, he had to accomplish
his work, live at all costs, live at the cost of the weak.... It was not he who had made the
universe.... Better not think of it, better not think of it.... But when unhappiness had dragged
him down, him, too, to the level of the vanquished, he had to think of these things Only a
little while ago he had blamed Olivier for plunging into futile remorse and vain compassion
for all the wretchedness that men suffer and inflict. Now he went even farther: with all the
vehemence of his mighty nature he probed to the depths of the tragedy of the universe: he suffered
all the sufferings of the world, and was left raw and bleeding. He could not think of the animals
without shuddering in anguish. He looked into the eyes of the beasts and saw there a soul like
his own, a soul which could not speak; but the eyes cried for it:

"What have I done to you? Why do you hurt me?"

He could not bear to see the most ordinary sights that he had seen hundreds of times--a calf
crying in a wicker pen, with its big, protruding eyes, with their bluish whites and pink lids,
and white lashes, its curly white tufts on its forehead, its purple snout, its knock-kneed
legs:--a lamb being carried by a peasant with its four legs tied together, hanging head down,
trying to hold its head up, moaning like a child, bleating and lolling its gray tongue:--fowls
huddled together in a basket:--the distant squeals of a pig being bled to death:--a fish being
cleaned on the kitchen-table.... The nameless tortures which men inflict on such innocent creatures
made his heart ache. Grant animals a ray of reason, imagine what a frightful nightmare the
world is to them: a dream of cold-blooded men, blind and deaf, cutting their throats, slitting
them open, gutting them, cutting them into pieces, cooking them alive, sometimes laughing at
them and their contortions as they writhe in agony. Is there anything more atrocious among
the cannibals of Africa? To a man whose mind is free there is something even more intolerable
in the sufferings of animals than in the sufferings of men. For with the latter it is at least
admitted that suffering is evil and that the man who causes it is a criminal. But thousands
of animals are uselessly butchered every day without a shadow of remorse. If any man were to
refer to it, he would be thought ridiculous.--And that is the unpardonable crime. That alone
is the justification of all that men may suffer. It cries vengeance upon all the human race.
If God exists and tolerates it, it cries vengeance upon God. If there exists a good God, then
even the most humble of living things must be saved. If God is good only to the strong, if
there is no justice for the weak and lowly, for the poor creatures who are offered up as a
sacrifice to humanity, then there is no such thing as goodness, no such thing as justice....

Alas! The slaughter accomplished by man is so small a thing of itself in the carnage of the
universe! The animals devour each other. The peaceful plants, the silent trees, are ferocious
beasts one to another. The serenity of the forests is only a commonplace of easy rhetoric for
the literary men who only know Nature through their books!... In the forest hard by, a few
yards away from the house, there were frightful struggles always toward. The murderous beeches
flung themselves upon the pines with their lovely pinkish stems, hemmed in their slenderness
with antique columns, and stifled them. They rushed down upon the oaks and smashed them, and
made themselves crutches of them. The beeches were like Briareus with his hundred arms, ten
trees in one tree! They dealt death all about them. And when, failing foes, they came together,
they became entangled, piercing, cleaving, twining round each other like antediluvian monsters.
Lower down, in the forest, the acacias had left the outskirts and plunged into the thick of
it and attacked the pinewoods, strangling and tearing up the roots of their foes, poisoning
them with their secretions. It was a struggle to the death in which the victors at once took
possession of the room and the spoils of the vanquished. Then the smaller monsters would finish
the work of the great. Fungi, growing between the roots, would suck at the sick tree, and gradually
empty it of its vitality. Black ants would grind exceeding small the rotting wood. Millions
of invisible insects were gnawing, boring, reducing to dust what had once been life.... And
the silence of the struggle!... Oh! the peace of Nature, the tragic mask that covers the sorrowful
and cruel face of Life! Christophe was going down and down. But he was not the kind of man
to let himself drown without a struggle, with his arms held close to his sides. In vain did
he wish to die: he did everything in his power to remain alive. He was one of those men of
whom Mozart said: "They must act until at last they have no means of action." He felt that
he was sinking, and in his fall he cast about, striking out with his arms to right and left,
for some support to which to cling. It seemed to him that he had found it. He had just remembered
Olivier's little boy. At once he turned on him all his desire for life: he clung to him desperately.
Yes: he must go and find him, claim him, bring him up, love him, take the place of his father,
bring Olivier to life again in his son. Why had he not thought of it in the selfishness of
his sorrow? He wrote to Cecile, who had charge of the boy. He waited feverishly for her reply.
His whole being was bent upon the one thought. He forced himself to be calm: he still had reason
for hope. He was quite confident about it: he knew how kind Cecile was.

Her answer came. Cecile said that three months after Olivier's death, a lady in black had come
to her house and said:

"Give me back my child!"

It was Jacqueline, who had deserted her child and Olivier,--Jacqueline, but so changed that
she had hardly recognized her. Her mad love affair had not lasted. She had wearied of her lover
more quickly than her lover had done of her. She had come back broken, disgusted, aged. The
too flagrant scandal of her adventure had closed many doors to her. The least scrupulous had
not been the least severe. Even her mother had been so offensive and so contemptuous that Jacqueline
had found it impossible to stay with her. She had seen through and through the world's hypocrisy.
Olivier's death had been the last blow. She seemed so utterly sorrowful that Cecile had not
thought it right to refuse to let her have her boy. It was hard for her to have to give up
the little creature, whom she had grown so used to regarding as her own. But how could she
make things even harder for a woman who had more right than herself, a woman who was further
more unhappy? She had wanted to write to Christophe to ask his advice. But Christophe had never
answered the letters she had written him, she did not know his address, she did not even know
whether he was alive or dead.... Joy comes and goes. What could she do? Only resign herself
to the inevitable. The main thing was for the child to be happy and to be loved....

The letter reached him in the evening. A belated gust of winter brought back the snow. It fell
all night. In the forest, where already the young leaves had appeared, the trees cracked and
split beneath the weight of it. They went off like a battery of artillery. Alone in his room,
without a light, surrounded only by the phosphorescent darkness, Christophe sat listening to
the tragic sounds of the forest, and started at every crack: and he was like one of the trees
bending beneath its load and snapping. He said to himself:

"Now the end has come."

Night passed. Day came. The tree was not broken. All through the new day and the following
night the tree went on bending and cracking: but it did not break. Christophe had no reason
for living left: and he went on living. He had no motive for struggling; and he struggled,
body to body, foot to foot, with the invisible enemy who was bending his back. He was like
Jacob with the angel. He expected nothing from the fight, he expected nothing now but the end,
rest; and he went on fighting. And he cried aloud:

"Break me and have done! Why dost thou not throw me down?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Days passed. Christophe issued from the fight, utterly lifeless. Yet he would not lie down,
and insisted on going out and walking. Happy are those men who are sustained by the fortitude
of their race in the hours of eclipse of their lives! Though the body of the son was near breaking-point,
the strength of the father and the grandfather held him up: the energy and impetus of his robust
ancestors sustained his broken soul, like a dead knight being carried along by his horse.

       *       *       *       *       *

Along a precipitous road he went with a ravine on either hand: he went down the narrow path,
thick with sharp stones, among which coiled the gnarled roots of the little stunted oaks: he
did not know where he was going, and yet he was more surefooted than if he had been moving
under the lucid direction of his will. He had not slept, he had hardly eaten anything for several
days. He saw a mist in front of his eyes. He walked down towards the valley.--It was Easter-week.
A cloudy day. The last assault of winter had been overcome. The warmth of spring was brooding.
From the villages far down the sound of bells came up: first from a village nestling in a hollow
at the foot of the mountain, with its dappled thatched roofs, dark and light in patches, covered
with thick, velvety moss. Then from another, out of sight, on the other slope of the hill.
Then, others down on the plain beyond the river. And the distant hum of a town seen hazily
in the mist. Christophe stopped. His heart almost stopped beating. Their voices seemed to be
saying:

"Come with us. Here is peace. Here sorrow is dead. Dead, and thought is dead too. We croon
so sweetly to the soul that it sleeps in our arms, Come, and rest, and thou shalt not wake again."

He felt so worn out! He was so fain to sleep! But he shook his head and said:

"It is not peace that I seek, but life."

He went on his way. He walked for miles without noticing it. In his state of weakness and hallucination
the simplest sensations came to him with unexpected resonance. Over earth and air his mind
cast fantastic lights. A shadow, with nothing to cause it that he could see, going before him
on the white and sunless road, made him tremble.

As he emerged from a wood he found himself near a village. He turned back: the sight of men
hurt him. However, he could not avoid passing by a lonely house above the hamlet: it was built
on the side of the mountain, and looked like a sanatorium: it was surrounded by a large garden
open to the sun; a few men were wandering with faltering footsteps along the gravel paths.
Christophe did not look at it particularly: but at a turn of the path he came face to face
with a man with pale eyes and a fat, yellow face, staring blankly, who had sunk down on a seat
at the foot of two poplar trees. Another man was sitting by his side: they were both silent.
Christophe walked past them. But, a few yards on, he stopped: the man's eyes had seemed familiar
to him. He turned. The man had not stirred: he was still staring fixedly at something in front
of him. But his companion looked at Christophe, who beckoned to him. He came up.

"Who is he?" asked Christophe.

"A patient in the asylum," said the man, pointing to the house.

"I think I know him," said Christophe.

"Possibly," replied the man. "He was a well-known writer in Germany."

Christophe mentioned a name.--Yes. That was the name.--He had met him once in the days when
he was writing for Mannheim's review. Then, they were enemies: Christophe was only just beginning,
and the other was already famous. He had been a man of considerable power, very self-confident,
very contemptuous of other men's work, a novelist whose realistic and sensual writings had
stood out above the mediocrity of the productions of his day. Christophe, who detested the
man, could not help admiring the perfection of his materialistic art, which was sincere, though
limited.

"He went mad a year ago," said the keeper. "He was treated, regarded as cured, and sent home.
Then he went mad again. One evening he threw himself out of the window. At first, when he came
here, he used to fling himself about and shout. But now he is quite quiet. He spends his days
sitting there, as you see."

"What is he looking at?" asked Christophe.

He went up to the seat, and looked pitifully at the pale face of the madman, with his heavy
eyelids drooping over his eyes: one of them seemed to be almost shut. The madman seemed to
be unaware of Christophe's presence. Christophe spoke to him by name and took his hand--a soft,
clammy hand, which lay limp in his like a dead thing: he had not the courage to keep it in
his: the man raised his glazing eyes to Christophe for a moment, then went on staring straight
in front of him with his besotted smile. Christophe asked:

"What are you looking at?"

The man said, without moving, in a whisper:

"I am waiting."

"What for?"

"The Resurrection."

Christophe started back. He walked hurriedly away. The word had burnt into his very soul.

He plunged into the forest, and climbed up the hillside in the direction of his own house.
In his confusion he missed his way, and found himself in the middle of an immense pine-wood.
Darkness and silence. A few patches of sunlight of a pale, ruddy gold, come it was impossible
to tell whence, fell aslant the dense shadows. Christophe was hypnotized by these patches of
light. Round him everything seemed to be in darkness. He walked along over the carpet of pine-needles,
tripping over the roots which stood out like swollen veins. At the foot of the trees were neither
plants nor moss. In the branches was never the song of a bird. The lower branches were dead.
All the life of the place had fled upwards to meet the sun. Soon even the life overhead would
be gone. Christophe passed into a part of the wood which was visited by some mysterious pestilence.
A kind of long, delicate lichen, like spiders' webs, had fastened upon the branches of the
red pines, and wrapped them about with its meshes, binding them from hand to foot, passing
from tree to tree, choking the life out of the forest. It was like the deep-sea alga with its
subtle tentacles. There was in the place the silence of the depths of the ocean. High overhead
hung the pale sun. Mists which had crept insidiously through the forest encompassed Christophe.
Everything disappeared: there was nothing to be seen. For half an hour Christophe wandered
at random in the web of the white mist, which grew slowly thicker, black, and crept down into
his throat: he thought he was going straight: but he was walking in a circle beneath the gigantic
spiders' webs hanging from the stifled pines: the mist, passing through them, left them enriched
with shivering drops of water. At last the meshes were rent asunder, a hole was made, and Christophe
managed to make his way out of the submarine forest. He came to living woods and the silent
conflict of the pines and the beeches. But everywhere there was the same stillness. The silence,
which had been brooding for hours, was agonizing. Christophe stopped to listen....

Suddenly, in the distance, there came a storm. A premonitory gust of wind blew up from the
depths of the forest. Like a galloping horse it rushed over the swaying tree-tops. It was like
the God of Michael Angelo passing in a water-spout. It passed over Christophe's head. The forest
rustled, and Christophe's heart quivered. It was the Annunciation....

Silence came again. In a state of holy terror Christophe walked quickly home, with his legs
giving way beneath him. At the door of the house he glanced fearfully behind him, like a hunted
man. All Nature seemed dead. The forests which covered the sides of the mountain were sleeping,
lying heavy beneath a weight of sadness. The still air was magically clear and transparent.
There was never a sound. Only the melancholy music of a stream--water eating away the rock--sounded
the knell of the earth, Christophe went to bed in a fever. It the stable hard by the beasts
stirred as restlessly and uneasily as he....

Night. He had dozed off. In the silence the distant storm arose once more. The wind returned,
like a hurricane now,--the foehn of the spring, with its burning breath warming the still sleeping,
chilly earth, the foehn which melts the ice and gathers fruitful rains. It rumbled like thunder
in the forests on the other side of the ravine. It came nearer, swelled, charged up the slopes:
the whole mountain roared. In the stable a horse neighed and the cows lowed. Christophe's hair
stood on end, he sat up in bed and listened. The squall came up screaming, set the shutters
banging, the weather-cocks squeaking, made the slates of the roof go crashing down, and the
whole house shake. A flower-pot fell and was smashed. Christophe's window was insecurely fastened,
and was burst open with a bang, and the warm wind rushed in. Christophe received its blast
full in his face and on his naked chest. He jumped out of bed gaping, gasping, choking. It
was as though the living God were rushing into his empty soul. The Resurrection!... The air
poured down his throat, the flood of new life swelled through him and penetrated to his very
marrow. He felt like to burst, he wanted to shout, to shout for joy and sorrow: and there would
only come inarticulate sounds from his mouth. He reeled, he beat on the walls with his arms,
while all around him were sheets of paper flying on the wind. He fell down in the middle of
the room and cried:

"O Thou, Thou! Thou art come back to me at last!"

"Thou art come back to me, Thou art come back to me! O Thou, whom I had lost!... Why didst
Thou abandon me?"

"To fulfil My task, that thou didst abandon."

"What task?"

"My fight."

"What need hast Thou to fight? Art Thou not master of all?"

"I am not the master."

"Art Thou not All that Is?"

"I am not all that is. I am Life fighting Nothingness. I am not Nothingness, I am the Fire
which burns in the Night. I am not the Night. I am the eternal Light; I am not an eternal destiny
soaring above the fight. I am free Will which struggles eternally. Struggle and burn with Me."

"I am conquered. I am good for nothing."

"Thou art conquered? All seems lost to thee? Others will be conquerors. Think not of thyself,
think of My army."

"I am alone. I have none but myself. I belong to no army."

"Thou art not alone, and thou dost not belong to thyself. Thou art one of My voices, thou art
one of My arms. Speak and strike for Me. But if the arm be broken, or the voice be weary, then
still I hold My ground: I fight with other voices, other arms than thine. Though thou art conquered,
yet art thou of the army which is never vanquished. Remember that and thou wilt fight even
unto death."

"Lord, I have suffered much!"

"Thinkest thou that I do not suffer also? For ages death has hunted Me and nothingness has
lain in wait for Me. It is only by victory in the fight that I can make My way. The river of
life is red with My blood."

"Fighting, always fighting?"

"We must always fight. God is a fighter, even He Himself. God is a conqueror. He is a devouring
lion. Nothingness hems Him in and He hurls it down. And the rhythm of the fight is the supreme
harmony. Such harmony is not for thy mortal ears. It is enough for thee to know that it exists.
Do thy duty in peace and leave the rest to the Gods."

"I have no strength left."

"Sing for those who are strong."

"My voice is gone."

"Pray."

"My heart is foul."

"Pluck it out. Take Mine."

"Lord, it is easy to forget myself, to cast away my dead soul. But how can I cast out the dead?
how can I forget those whom I have loved?"

"Abandon the dead with thy dead soul. Thou wilt find them alive with My living soul."

"Thou hast left me once: wilt Thou leave me again?"

"I shall leave thee again. Never doubt that. It is for thee never to leave Me more."

"But if the flame of my life dies down?"

"Then do thou kindle others."

"And if death is in me?"

"Life is otherwhere. Go, open thy gates to life. Thou insensate man, to shut thyself up in
thy ruined house! Quit thyself. There are other mansions."

"O Life, O Life! I see ... I sought thee in myself, in my own empty shut-in soul. My soul is
broken: the sweet air pours in through the windows of my wounds: I breathe again, I have found
Thee once more, O Life!..."

"I have found thee again.... Hold thy peace, and listen."

       *       *       *       *       *

And like the murmuring of a spring, Christophe heard the song of life bubbling up in him. Leaning
out of his window, he saw the forest, which yesterday had been dead, seething with life under
the sun and the wind, heaving like the Ocean. Along the stems of the trees, like thrills of
joy, the waves of the wind passed: and the yielding branches held their arms in ecstasy up
to the brilliant sky. And the torrent rang out merrily as a bell. The countryside had risen
from the grave in which yesterday it had been entombed: life had entered it at the time when
love passed into Christophe's heart. Oh! the miracle of the soul touched by grace, awaking
to new life! Then everything comes to life again all round it. The heart begins to beat once
more. The eye of the spirit is opened. The dried-up fountains begin once more to flow.

And Christophe returned to the Divine conflict.... How his own fight, how all the conflicts
of men were lost in that gigantic battle, wherein the suns rain down like flakes of snow tossing
on the wind!... He had laid bare his soul. And, just as in those dreams in which one hovers
in space, he felt that he was soaring above himself, he saw himself from above, in the general
plan of the world; and the meaning of his efforts, the price of his suffering, were revealed
to him at a glance. His struggles were a part of the great fight of the worlds. His overthrow
was a momentary episode, immediately repaired. Just as he fought for all, so all fought for
him. They shared his trials, he shared their glory.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Companions, enemies, walk over me, crush me, let me feel the cannons which shall win victory
pass over my body! I do not think of the iron which cuts deep into my flesh, I do not think
of the foot that tramples down my head, I think of my Avenger, the Master, the Leader of the
countless army. My blood shall cement the victory of the future...."

God was not to him the impassive Creator, a Nero from his tower of brass watching the burning
of the City to which he himself has set fire. God was fighting. God was suffering. Fighting
and suffering with all who fight and for all who suffer. For God was Life, the drop of light
fallen into the darkness, spreading out, reaching out, drinking up the night. But the night
is limitless, and the Divine struggle will never cease: and none can know how it will end.
It was a heroic symphony wherein the very discords clashed together and mingled and grew into
a serene whole! Just as the beech-forest in silence furiously wages war, so Life carries war
into the eternal peace.

The wars and the peace rang echoing through Christophe. He was like a shell wherein the ocean
roars. Epic shouts passed, and trumpet calls, and tempestuous sounds borne upon sovereign rhythms.
For in that sonorous soul everything took shape in sound. It sang of light. It sang of darkness,
sang of life and death. It sang for those who were victorious in battle. It sang for himself
who was conquered and laid low. It sang. All was song. It was nothing but song.

It was so drunk with it that it could not hear its own song. Like the spring rains, the torrents
of music disappeared into the earth that was cracked by the winter. Shame, grief, bitterness
now revealed their mysterious mission: they had decomposed the earth and they had fertilized
it. The share of sorrow, breaking the heart, had opened up new sources of life. The waste land
had once more burst into flower. But they were not the old spring flowers. A new soul had been
born.

Every moment it was springing into birth. For it was not yet shaped and hardened, like the
souls that have come to the end of their belief, the souls which are at the point of death.
It was not the finished statue. It was molten metal. Every second made a new universe of it.
Christophe had no thought of setting bounds upon himself. He gave himself up to the joy of
a man leaving behind him the burden of his past and setting out on a long voyage, with youth
in his blood, freedom in his heart, to breathe the sea air, and think that the voyage will
never come to an end. Now that he was caught up again by the creative force which flows through
the world, he was amazed to the point of ecstasy at the world's wealth. He loved, he was, his
neighbor as himself. And all things were "neighbors" to him, from the grass beneath his feet
to the man whose hand he clasped. A fine tree, the shadow of a cloud on the mountain, the breath
of the fields borne upward on the wind, and, at night, the hive of heaven buzzing with the
swarming suns ... his blood raced through him ... he had no desire to speak or to think, he
desired only to laugh and to cry, and to melt away into the living marvel of it all. Write?
Why should he write? Can a man write the inexpressible?... But whether it were possible or
no, he had to write. It was his law. Ideas would come to him in flashes, wherever he might
be, most often when he was out walking. He could not wait. Then he would write with anything,
on anything that came to hand: and very often he could not have told the meaning of the phrases
which came rushing forth from him with irresistible impetuosity: and, as he wrote, more ideas
would come, more and more: and he would write and write, on his shirt cuffs, in the lining
of his hat. Quickly though he wrote, yet his thoughts would leap ahead, and he had to use a
sort of shorthand.

They were only rough notes. The difficulty began when he tried to turn his ideas into the ordinary
musical forms: he discovered that none of the conventional molds were in the least suitable:
if he wanted to fix his visions with any sort of fidelity, he had to begin by forgetting all
the music he had ever heard, everything he had ever written, make a clean sweep of all the
formulae he had ever learned, and the traditional technique; fling away all such crutches of
the impotent mind, the comfortable bed made for the indolence of those who lie back on the
thoughts of other men to save themselves the trouble of thinking for themselves. A short while
ago, when he thought that he had reached maturity in life and art--(as a matter of fact he
had only been at the end of one of his lives and one of his incarnations in art),--he had expressed
himself in a preexisting language: his feelings had submitted without revolt to the logic of
a pre-established development, which dictated a portion of his phrases in advance, and had
led him, docilely enough, along the beaten track to the appointed spot where the public was
awaiting him. Now there was no road marked out, and his feelings had to carve out their own
path: his mind had only to follow. It was no longer appointed to describe or to analyze passion:
it had to become part and parcel of it, and seek to wed its inward law.

At the same time he shed all the contradictions in which he had long been involved, though
he had never willingly submitted to them. For, although he was a pure artist, he had often
incorporated in his art considerations which are foreign to art: he had endowed it with a social
mission. And he had not perceived that there were two men in him: the creative artist who never
worried himself about any moral aim, and the man of action, the thinker, who wanted his art
to be moral and social. The two would sometimes bring each other to an awkward pass. But now
that he was subject to every creative idea, with its organic law, like a reality superior to
all reality, he had broken free of practical reason. In truth, he shed none of his contempt
for the flabby and depraved immorality of the age: in truth, he still thought that its impure
and unwholesome art was the lowest rung of art, because it is a disease, a fungus growing on
a rotting trunk: but if art for pleasure's sake is the prostration of art, Christophe by no
means opposed to it the short-sighted utilitarianism of art for morality's sake, that winged
Pegasus harnessed to the plow. The highest art, the only art which is worthy of the name, is
above all temporary laws: it is a comet sweeping through the infinite. It may be that its force
is useful, it may be that it is apparently useless and dangerous in the existing order of the
workaday world: but it is force, it is movement and fire: it is the lightning darted from heaven:
and, for that very reason, it is sacred, for that very reason it is beneficent. The good it
does may be of the practical order: but its real, its Divine benefits are, like faith, of the
supernatural order. It is like the sun whence it is sprung. The sun is neither moral nor immoral.
It is that which Is. It lightens the darkness of space. And so does art.

And Christophe, being delivered up to art, was amazed to find unknown and unsuspected powers
teeming in himself: powers quite apart from his passions, his sorrows, his conscious soul,
a stranger soul, indifferent to all his loves and sufferings, to all his life, a joyous, fantastic,
wild, incomprehensible soul. It rode him and dug its spurs into his sides. And, in the rare
moments when he could stop to take breath, he wondered as he read over what he had written:

"How could such things have come out of me?"

He was a prey to that delirium of the mind which is known to every man of genius, that will
which is independent of the will, "the ineffable enigma of the world and life" which Goethe
calls "the demoniac," against which he was always armed, though it always overcame him.

And Christophe wrote and wrote. For days and weeks. There are times when the mind, being impregnated,
can feed upon itself and go on producing almost indefinitely. The faintest contact with things,
the pollen of a flower borne by the wind were enough to make the inward germs, the myriads
of germs put forth and come to blossom. Christophe had no time to think, no time to live. His
creative soul reigned sovereign over the ruins of his life.

       *       *       *       *       *

And suddenly it stopped. Christophe came out of that state broken, scorched, older by ten years--but
saved. He had left Christophe and gone over to God.

Streaks of white hair had suddenly appeared in his black mane, like those autumn flowers which
spring up in the fields in September nights. There were fresh lines on his cheeks. But his
eyes had regained their calm expression, and his mouth bore the marks of resignation. He was
appeased. He understood now. He understood the vanity of his pride, the vanity of human pride,
under the terrible hand of the Force which moves the worlds. No man is surely master of himself.
A man must watch. For if he slumbers that Force rushes into him and whirls him headlong ...
into what dread abysses? or the torrent which bears him along sinks and leaves him on its dry
bed. To fight the fight it is not enough to will. A man must humiliate himself before the unknown
God, who fiat ubi vult, who blows where and when He listeth, love, death, or life. Human will
can do nothing without God's. One second is enough for Him to obliterate the work of years
of toil and effort. And, if it so please Him, He can cause the eternal to spring forth from
dust and mud. No man more than the creative artist feels at the mercy of God: for, if he is
truly great, he will only say what the Spirit bids him.

And Christophe understood the wisdom of old Haydn who went down on his knees each morning before
he took pen in hand.... Vigila et ora. Watch and pray. Pray to God that He may be with you.
Keep in loving and pious communion with the Spirit of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towards the end of summer a Parisian friend of Christophe's, who was passing through Switzerland,
discovered his retreat. He was a musical critic who in old days had been an excellent judge
of his compositions. He was accompanied by a well-known painter, who was avowedly a whole-hearted
admirer of Christophe's. They told him of the very considerable success of his work, which
was being played all over Europe. Christophe showed very little interest in the news: the past
was dead to him, and his old compositions did not count. At his visitors' request he showed
them the music he had written recently. The critic could make nothing of it. He thought Christophe
had gone mad.

"No melody, no measure, no thematic workmanship: a sort of liquid core, molten matter which
had not hardened, taking any shape, but possessing none of its own: it is like nothing on earth:
a glimmering of light in chaos."

Christophe smiled:

"It is quite like that," he said. "The eyes of chaos shining through the veil of order...."

But the critic did not understand Novalis' words:

("He is cleaned out," he thought.)

Christophe did not try to make him understand.

When his visitors were ready to go he walked with them a little, so as to do the honors of
his mountain. But he did not go far. Looking down at a field, the musical critic called to
mind the scenery of a Parisian theater: and the painter criticised the colors, mercilessly
remarking on the awkwardness of their combination, and declaring that to him they had a Swiss
flavor, sour, like rhubarb, musty and dull, a la Hodler; further, he displayed an indifference
to Nature which was not altogether affectation. He pretended to ignore Nature.

"Nature! What on earth is Nature? I don't know. Light, color, very well! But I don't care a
hang for Nature!"

Christophe shook hands with them and let them go. That sort of thing had no effect on him now.
They were on the other side of the ravine. That was well. He said to nobody in particular:

"If you wish to come up to me, you must take the same road."

The creative fire which had been burning for months had died down. But its comfortable warmth
was still in Christophe's heart. He knew that the fire would flare up again: if not in himself,
then around him. Wherever it might be, he would love it just the same: it would always be the
same fire. On that September evening he could feel it burning throughout all Nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

He climbed up to the house. There had been a storm. The sun had come out again. The fields
were steaming. The ripe fruit was falling from the apple-trees into the wet grass. Spiders'
webs, hanging from the branches of the trees, still glittering with the rain, were like the
ancient wheels of Mycenaean chariots. At the edge of the dripping forest the green woodpecker
was trilling his jerky laughter; and myriads of little wasps, dancing in the sunbeams, filled
the vault of the woods with their deep, long-drawn organ note.

Christophe came to a clearing, in the hollow of a shoulder of the mountain, a little valley
shut in at both ends, a perfect oval in shape, which was flooded with the light of the setting
sun: the earth was red: in the midst lay a little golden field of belated crops, and rust-colored
rushes. Round about it was a girdle of the woods with their ripe autumn tints: ruddy copper
beeches, pale yellow chestnuts, rowans with their coral berries, flaming cherry-trees with
their little tongues of fire, myrtle-bushes with their leaves of orange and lemon and brown
and burnt tinder. It was like a burning bush. And from the heart of the flaring cup rose and
soared a lark, drunk with the berries and the sun.

And Christophe's soul was like the lark. It knew that it would soon come down to earth again,
and many times. But it knew also that it would unwearyingly ascend in the fire, singing its
"tirra-lirra" which tells of the light of the heavens to those who are on earth below.

THE NEW DAWN

HERE, AT THE END OF THIS BOOK,

I DEDICATE IT:

TO THE FREE SPIRITS--OF ALL NATIONS--

WHO SUFFER, FIGHT, AND

WILL PREVAIL.

R. R.

PREFACE TO THE LAST VOLUME

OF

JEAN-CHRISTOPHE

I have written the tragedy of a generation which is nearing its end. I have sought to conceal
neither its vices nor its virtues, its profound sadness, its chaotic pride, its heroic efforts,
its despondency beneath the overwhelming burden of a superhuman task, the burden of the whole
world, the reconstruction of the world's morality, its esthetic principles, its faith, the
forging of a new humanity.--Such we have been.

You young men, you men of to-day, march over us, trample us under your feet, and press onward.
Be ye greater and happier than we. For myself, I bid the soul that was mine farewell. I cast
it from me like an empty shell. Life is a succession of deaths and resurrections. We must die,
Christophe, to be born again,

ROMAIN ROLLAND.

October, 1912.

Life passes. Body and soul flow onward like a stream. The years are written in the flesh of
the ageing tree. The whole visible world of form is forever wearing out and springing to new
life. Thou only dost not pass, immortal music. Thou art the inward sea. Thou art the profound
depths of the soul. In thy clear eyes the scowling face of life is not mirrored. Far, far from
thee, like the herded clouds, flies the procession of days, burning, icy, feverish, driven
by uneasiness, huddling, moving on, on, never for one moment to endure. Thou only dost not
pass. Thou art beyond the world. Thou art a whole world to thyself. Thou hast thy sun, thy
laws, thy ebb and flow. Thou hast the peace of the stars in the great spaces of the field of
night, marking their luminous track-plows of silver guided by the sure hand of the invisible
ox-herd.

Music, serene music, how sweet is thy moony light to eyes wearied of the harsh brilliance of
this world's sun! The soul that has lived and turned away from the common horse-pond, where,
as they drink, men stir up the mud with their feet, nestles to thy bosom, and from thy breasts
is suckled with the clear running water of dreams. Music, thou virgin mother, who in thy immaculate
womb bearest the fruit of all passions, who in the lake of thy eyes, whereof the color is as
the color of rushes, or as the pale green glacier water, enfoldest good and evil, thou art
beyond evil, thou art beyond good; he that taketh refuge with thee is raised above the passing
of time: the succession of days will be but one day; and death that devours everything on such
an one will never close its jaws.

Music, thou who hast rocked my sorrow-laden soul; music, thou who hast made me firm in strength,
calm and joyous,--my love and my treasure,--I kiss thy pure lips, I hide my face in thy honey-sweet
hair. I lay my burning eyelids upon the cool palms of thy hands. No word we speak, our eyes
are closed, and I see the ineffable light of thine eyes, and I drink the smile of thy silent
lips: and, pressed close to thy heart, I listen to the throb of eternal life.

I

Christophe loses count of the fleeting years. Drop by drop life ebbs away. But his life is
elsewhere. It has no history. His history lies wholly in his creative work. The unceasing buzzing
song of music fills his soul, and makes him insensible to the outward tumult.

Christophe has conquered. His name has been forced upon the world. He is ageing. His hair is
white. That is nothing to him, his heart is ever young: he has surrendered none of his force,
none of his faith. Once more he is calm, but not as he was before he passed by the Burning
Bush. In the depths of his soul there is still the quivering of the storm, the memory of his
glimpse into the abyss of the raging seas. He knows that no man may boast of being master of
himself without the permission of the God of battle. In his soul there are two souls. One is
a high plateau swept by winds and shrouded with, clouds. The other, higher still, is a snowy
peak bathed in light. There it is impossible to dwell; but, when he is frozen by the mists
on the lower ground, well he knows the path that leads to the sun. In his misty soul Christophe
is not alone. Near him he ever feels the presence of an invisible friend, the sturdy Saint
Cecilia, listening with wide, calm eyes to the heavens; and, like the Apostle Paul,--in Raphael's
picture,--silent and dreaming, leaning on his sword, he is beyond exasperation, and has no
thought of fighting: he dreams, and forges his dreams into form.

During this period of his life he mostly wrote piano and chamber music. In such work he was
more free to dare and be bold: it necessitated fewer intermediaries between his ideas and their
realization; his ideas were less in danger of losing force in the course of their percolation.
Frescobaldi, Couperin, Schubert, and Chopin, in their boldness of expression and style, anticipated
the revolutionaries in orchestral music by fifty years. Out of the crude stuff shaped by Christophe's
strong hands came strange and unknown agglomerations of harmony, bewildering combinations of
chords, begotten of the remotest kinships of sounds accessible to the senses in these days;
they cast a magical and holy spell upon the mind.--But the public must have time to grow accustomed
to the conquests and the trophies which a great artist brings back with him from his quest
in the deep waters of the ocean. Very few would follow Christophe in the temerity of his later
works. His fame was due to his earlier compositions. The feeling of not being understood, which
is even more painful in success than in the lack of it, because there seems to be no way out
of it, had, since the death of his only friend, aggravated in Christophe his rather morbid
tendency to seek isolation from the world.

However, the gates of Germany were open to him once more. In France the tragic brawl had been
forgotten. He was free to go whithersoever he pleased. But he was afraid of the memories that
would lie in wait for him in Paris. And, although he had spent a few months in Germany and
returned there from time to time to conduct performances of his work, he did not settle there.
He found too many things which hurt him. They were not particular to Germany: he found them
elsewhere. But a man expects more of his own country than any other, and he suffers more from
its foibles. It was true, too, that Germany was bearing the greatest burden of the sins of
Europe. The victor incurs the responsibility of his victory, a debt towards the vanquished:
tacitly the victor is pledged to march in front of them to show them the way. The conquests
of Louis XIV. gave Europe the splendor of French reason. What light has the Germany of Sedan
given to the world? The glitter of bayonets? Thought without wings, action without generosity,
brutal realism, which has not even the excuse of being the realism of healthy men; force and
interest: Mars turned bagman. Forty years ago Europe was led astray into the night, and the
terrors of the night. The sun was hidden beneath the conqueror's helmet. If the vanquished
are too weak to raise the extinguisher, and can claim only pity mingled with contempt, what
shall be given to the victor who has done this thing?

A little while ago, day began to peep: little shafts of light shimmered through the cracks.
Being one of the first to see the rising of the sun, Christophe had come out of the shadow
of the helmet: gladly he returned to the country in which he had been a sojourner perforce,
to Switzerland. Like so many of the spirits of that time, spirits thirsting for liberty, choking
in the narrowing circle of the hostile nations, he sought a corner of the earth in which he
could stand above Europe and breathe freely. Formerly, in the days of Goethe, the Rome of the
free Popes was the island upon which all the winged thought of divers nations came to rest,
like birds taking shelter from the storm. Now what refuge is there? The island has been covered
by the sea. Rome is no more. The birds have fled from the Seven Hills.--The Alps only are left
for them. There, amid the rapacity of Europe, stands (for how long?) the little island of twenty-four
cantons. In truth it has not the poetic radiance and glamor of the Eternal City: history has
not filled its air with the breath of gods and heroes; but a mighty music rises from the naked
Earth; there is an heroic rhythm in the lines of the mountains, and here, more than anywhere
else, a man can feel himself in contact with elemental forces. Christophe did not go there
in search of romantic pleasure. A field, a few trees, a stream, the wide sky, were enough to
make him feel alive. The calm aspect of his native country was sweeter and more companionable
to him than the gigantic grandeur of the Alps. But he could not forget that it was here that
he had renewed his strength: here God had appeared to him in the Burning Bush; and he never
returned thither without a thrill of gratitude and faith. He was not the only one. How many
of the combatants of life, ground beneath life's heel, have on that soil renewed their energy
to turn again to the fight, and believe once more in its purpose!

Living in that country he had come to know it well. The majority of those who pass through
it see only its excrescences: the leprosy of the hotels which defiles the fairest features
of that sturdy piece of earth, the stranger cities, the monstrous marts whither all the fatted
people of the world come to browse, the table d'hote meals, the masses of food flung into the
trough for the nosing beasts: the casino bands with their silly music mingling with the noise
of the little horses, the Italian scum whose disgusting uproar makes the bored wealthy idiots
wriggle with pleasure, the fatuous display of the shops--wooden bears, chalets, silly knick-knacks,
always the same, repeated time and again, over and over again, with no freshness or invention;
the worthy booksellers with their scandalous pamphlets,--all the moral baseness of those places
whither every year the idle, joyless millions come who are incapable of finding amusement in
the smallest degree finer than that of the multitude, or one tithe as keen.

And they know nothing of the people in whose land they stay. They have no notion of the reserves
of moral force and civic liberty which for centuries have been hoarded up in them, coals of
the fires of Calvin and Zwingli, still glowing beneath the ashes; they have no conception of
the vigorous democratic spirit which will always ignore the Napoleonic Republic, of the simplicity
of their institutions, or the breadth of their social undertakings, or the example given to
the world by these United States of the three great races of the West, the model of the Europe
of the future. Even less do they know of the Daphne concealed beneath this rugged bark, the
wild, flashing dreams of Boecklin, the raucous heroism of Hodler, the serene vision and humor
of Gottfried Keller, the living tradition of the great popular festivals, and the sap of springtime
swelling the trees,--the still young art, sometimes rasping to the palate, like the hard fruits
of wild pear-trees, sometimes with the sweetish insipidity of myrtles black and blue, but at
least something smacking of the earth, is the work of self-taught men not cut off from the
people by an archaic culture, but, with them, reading in the same book of life.

Christophe was in sympathy with these men who strive less to seem than to be, and, under the
recent veneer of an ultramodern industrialism, keep clearly marked the most reposeful features
of the old Europe of peasants and townsmen. Among them he had found a few good friends, grave,
serious, and faithful, who hold isolated and immured in them regrets for the past; they were
looking on at the gradual disappearance of the old Switzerland with a sort of religious fatalism
and Calvinistic pessimism; great gray souls. Christophe seldom saw them. His old wounds were
apparently healed: but they had been too deep wholly to be cured. He was fearful of forming
new ties with men. It was something for this reason that he liked to dwell in a country where
it was easy to live apart, a stranger amid a throng of strangers. For the rest he rarely stayed
long in any one place; often he changed his lair: he was like an old migratory bird which needs
space, and has its country in the air ... "Mein Reich ist in der Luft."

An evening in summer.

He was walking in the mountains above a village. He was striding along with his hat in his
hand, up a winding road. He came to a neck where the road took a double turn, and passed into
shadow between two slopes; on either side were nut-trees and pines. It was like a little shut-in
world. On either hand the road seemed to come to an end, cut off at the edge of the void. Beyond
were blue distance and the gleaming air. The peace of evening came down like a gentle rain.

They came together each at the same moment turning the bend at either end of the neck. She
was dressed in black, and stood out against the clear sky: behind her were two children, a
boy and a girl, between six and eight, who were playing and picking flowers. They recognized
each other at a distance of a few yards. Their emotion was visible in their eyes; but neither
brought it into words; each gave only an imperceptible movement. He was deeply moved: she ...
her lips trembled a little. They stopped. Almost in a whisper:

"Grazia!"

"You here!"

They held out their hands and stood without a word. Grazia was the first to make an effort
to break the silence. She told him where she lived, and asked him where he was staying. Question
and answer were mechanical, and they hardly listened, heard later, when their hands had parted:
they were absorbed in gazing at each other. The children came back to her. She introduced them.
He felt hostile towards them, and looked at them with no kindness, and said nothing: he was
engrossed with her, occupied only in studying her beautiful face that bore some marks of suffering
and age. She was embarrassed by his gaze, and said:

"Will you come, this evening?"

And she gave the name of her hotel.

He asked her where her husband was. She pointed to her black dress. He was too much moved to
say more, and left her awkwardly. But when he had taken a few strides he came back to the children,
who were picking strawberries, and took them roughly in his arms and kissed them, and went away.

In the evening he went to the hotel, and found her on the veranda, with the blinds drawn. They
sat apart. There were very few people about, only two or three old people. Christophe was irritated
by their presence. Grazia looked at him, and he looked at her, and murmured her name over and
over again.

"Don't you think I have changed?" she asked.

His heart grew big.

"You have suffered," he said.

"You too," she answered pityingly, scanning the deep marks of agony and passion in his face.

They were at a loss for words.

"Please," he said, a moment later, "let us go somewhere else. Could we not find somewhere to
be alone and talk?"

"No, my dear. Let us stay here. It is good enough here. No one is heeding us at all."

"I cannot talk freely here."

"That is all the better."

He could not understand why. Later, when in memory he went over their conversation, he thought
she had not trusted him. But she was instinctively afraid of emotional scenes: unconsciously
she was seeking protection from any surprise of their hearts: the very awkwardness of their
intimacy in a public room, so sheltering the modesty of her secret emotions, was dear to her.

In whispers, with long intervals of silence, they sketched their lives in outline. Count Bereny
had been killed in a duel a few months ago; and Christophe saw that she had not been very happy
with him. Also, she had lost a child, her first-born. She made no complaint, and turned the
conversation from herself to question Christophe, and, as he told her of his tribulations,
she showed the most affectionate compassion. Bells rang. It was Sunday evening. Life stood still.

