During Saturday night the surface water had settled in the pit so as to cover the image.  The
wise men of Cardiff were consulted.  One said, bail out the water--exposure to the air will
do no harm.  The other said, leave it thus until some scientific man comes to decide as to
the prospects of destructability.  And the latter's advice was adopted.  Yet, when the water
was undisturbed and clear, the whole could be seen perfectly plain.  Later in the day Dr. J.F.
Boynton, the geologist, drove out with Mr. John Geenway, the water was bailed out, and Dr.
B. made a thorough inspection of his Giantship, put his arms under the neck, and fairly hugged
the monster.  The general impression is, that it is a petrifaction of one of those large human
beings of which all of us have heard so much in our youthful days, and have read accounts of
in maturer years--not here, but somewhere else.  A book lies before us, having account of several,
varying from eight to eleven feet;  but we stop not to extract therefrom.  Prof. Boynton, from
a hasty examination, is of opinion that it is a work of art--a sculpture from stone.  If this
theory be correct, it would be scarcely less interesting than if a petrifaction.  In the one
case arises the speculation as to a gigantic race of beings that may have inhabited portions
of this "new world" hundreds of years before Columbus discovered it;  the other as to how long
ago the artist did the work, and where came he, or his ancestors, from?  Men nigh on to a hundred
years, and who have resided in the county seventy of them, have never heard allusion to such
a thing;  the Indian traditions speak not of it.  The record of the first white man in this
region--Catholic Jesuits--is of something over two hundred years. That record preserves matters
of less interest than this would be, but not this.  Then again we say it would have scarcely
less interest as a work of the chisel, than a petrifaction.

Our city is talking about the Giant.  The story has passed from one to another till very many,
probably ten thousand, of our citizens have already heard it.  The interest is great in it,
insomuch that it has been almost impossible for us to thus disjointedly write about the great
wonder, because of the constant interruption by visitors who are anxious to hear from one who
has actually seen.

From the Syracuse Courier, Oct 18th, 1869.

On Saturday morning last the quiet little village of Cardiff, which lies in the valley about
twelve miles south of Syracuse, was thrown into an excitement without precedent, by the report
that a human body had been exhumed in a petrified state, the colossal dimensions of which had
never been the fortune of the inhabitants of the little village to behold, and the magnitude
of which was positively beyond the comprehension or the understanding of the wise men of the
valley. We are told that there were giants on the earth once;  and, if the reports of those
who have investigated this discovery are true, and that they are we have no doubt, this stony
man--who for hundreds of years may have slept untouched and undisturbed, had it not been for
the rude hand of a Cardiff farmer--must have been one of them. The excitement in and around
Cardiff extended until it reached the City of Salt, and all day yesterday the discovery was
the chief topic of conversation at the hotels and public places in the city. Of course, the
most extravagant stories were told, and greedily devoured up by gaping listeners.  Some would
have it that the body exhumed was twenty-five feet high, and proportionately large.  All day
yesterday crowds visited the scene of the discovery, and returned to tell the tale of the wonderful
discovery to their eager friends.

From the Standard, October 23d.

LETTER FROM REV. MR. CALTHROP. DEAR SIR--As everyone is deeply interested in the Onondaga Giant,
perhaps it may be as well for each of us to add his mite towards guessing at the solution of
the problem he has silently set us all.

It is no wonder that so many are of opinion that he is a gigantic petrifaction.  His proportions
are so perfect, and his appearance is so life like.  I will add, that every one wants to think
so. If he proved to be a petrifaction, what a realm of awe and mysterious conjecture would
he open to us.  But I, for one, feel convinced that he will prove to be statue, and for these
reasons:--

First, I think there are evident marks of stratification in the stone.  The left eyebrow and
the top of the nose are the parts most elevated.  These correspond exactly, both being composed
of a white layer.  On the chest is a squarish layer of a dark tinge; around, and slightly below
this, is another layer corresponding exactly with the ins and outs of the first.  Beyond, and
below this, another and another all alike, seeming to be simply lines of stratification.  The
level seems exactly kept.  Follow with your eye any two adjacent lines, and you will see that
where they are close to each other the surface has an abrupt change of level;  where they are
further apart the surface is nearly horizontal.  Where the surface approaches the perpendicular,
as on the sides, the dark line showing the separation of the strata is thin, because it has
been cut through nearly at right angles.  Where the surface is more horizontal the dark line
is broader, because it has been cut through obliquely, the breadth varying steadily with the
angle of inclination.  The same can be plainly seen along the right leg.

Another strong reason for its being a statue lies in the fact that not a single limb is detached.
The right arm is not merely glued to the body throughout, as well as the hand, but it has the
appearance of only being cut into the stone to a depth sufficient to give due relief.  This
is equally true of the left arm, and of the two legs, which are joined to each other throughout.
The sculptor has not wasted a stroke of the chisel.  I would add here, that between the third
and fourth fingers of the right hand, the slit is carried too far toward the wrist, seemingly
by a slip of the chisel.

Who did it?  A trained sculptor;  one who had seen, studied and probably reproduced many a
work of art;  one who was thoroughly acquainted with human anatomy.  One, too, who had noble
original powers;  for none but such could have formed and wrought out the conception of that
stately head, with its calm, grand smile, so full of mingled sweetness and strength.

He appears, however, to have worked under certain disadvantages. He had not such command of
materials as a civilized country could have afforded him.  He had to put up with the best stone
he could find.  I think that the peculiar posture of the statue can be fairly explained by
supposing that the original block tapered away toward the feet, and was only just about the
breadth of the statue as we now see it.  This seems fairly to explain the curious position
of the left arm.  The artist had to put it there because there was not breadth enough to put
it in any other position.  So of the position of the feet--one over the other.  The stone may
not have been wide enough to have admitted of any other position.  Who was he? Let us analyze
a little.

In the ancient world, only the Greek School of Art was capable of such a perfect reproduction
of the human form.  I have seen no Egyptian or Assyrian sculpture which approached this in
anatomical accuracy.

Throughout the middle ages till the great Art Revival, no one in Europe had skill enough for
the purpose.  It appears, therefore, that unless we adopt the somewhat strained hypothesis
that a highly civilized society, now utterly extinct, once existed on this continent, we are
forced to search for our sculptor among the European adventurers who have sought homes in North
America during the last three centuries, as no one, I presume, is prepared to maintain a that
the statue has a Greek or Roman origin, unless, indeed, it was brought over as an antique by
some forgotten amateur of art.

Was it not then as Dr. Boynton suggests, some one from that French colony, which occupied Salina
and Pompey Hill, and Lafayette?  Some one with an artist's soul, sighing over the lost civilization
of Europe, weary of swamp and forests, and fort, finding this block by the side of the stream
solaced the weary days of exile with pouring out his thought upon the stone.  The only other
hypothesis remaining is that of a gross fraud.  One need only say with regard to this that
such a fraud would require the genius of a sculptor joined to the skill and audacity of a Jack
Sheppard.

But lastly, what did he intend it to represent?  Had he known of
the discovery of America by the northmen, he might have had in his
thoughts some gigantic Brown, or Erio, or Harold.  The old northman
is shot through with an Indian's poisoned arrow;  his body is dying,
as the tight pressed limbs express;  but the strong soul still
rules the face, which smiles grandly in death.  If you had objected
that there was too much mind shining through the features, the
sculptor might have answered that the closed eyes saw in prophetic
vision that men of his race would one day rule where he had lain
down to die.  But this is rather too high flown, so I had better
conclude.
        Yours,
                S.R. CALTHROP.

LETTER FAVORING PETRIFACTION.

MR. EDITOR:--It needs no apology to address you upon a subject that is now engaging the constant
attention of all your readers and thousands besides, and if any person can throw any light
upon the subject it would seem to be their duty to communicate it to the public.  While there
has been much speculation and wonder as to the nature and origin of the marvelous curiosity
found last Saturday in the town of Lafayette, in this county, there has been made public no
argument from scientific men up to this time to settle the doubts and convictions of the unlearned.
In the suggestions which I shall make upon the subject, I regret that I have not the benefit
of a more extended knowledge of the sciences which pertain to the subject, but having earnest
convictions, supported apparently by plausible reasons, I submit them to the consideration
of the public for whatever weight they may be entitled to.

The advocates of the theory that the subject in question is a statue, have too many difficulties
to overcome to establish their position.

If the subject is a statue it must have been formed by some person, who once lived, and had
an object or motive for making it.  Who can say what that object was?  It must have been formed
by a person of wonderful genius and skill.  Where and when did such a person exist?  History
gives no account of him.  Its formation and object must have been known to many persons who
assisted in its manufacturing and transportation.  Where are those persons?

The objections to the theory that the figure in question is a statue, may be briefly described
as follows:

1st.  This figure, if made by human hand, was intended to be exhibited;  otherwise there can
be no motive for making it. If it was intended to be exhibited, it was also designed to assume
some position, either an erect or recumbent one.  The reasons for keeping it in that position
would have been provided by the sculptor, by either making a pedestal for it to stand upon,
a tablet for it to lie on, or forming the body on the stone out of which it was cut, so that
it would lie upon a flat surface.  Nothing of this kind is visible.  There is nothing about
the figure remaining except what belongs to a man who has lain down alone in solitude and agony
to die and has died, and the story of whose death has been preserved by the miraculous agencies
of nature.

Second, if designed by man as the representation of man, the head would have been covered with
hair, the most beautiful ornament of the human body, yet no trace of hair is found on this subject.

Third, it has been claimed that the material of this figure is gypsum taken from the hills
of Onondaga county.  The evidence of our most experienced quarrymen is that a block of gypsum
of sufficient size to make this figure was never found in this region.

Fourth, if this figure was sculptured from marble or stone, its body, head and limbs would
be solid.  Yet the orifices in its wasted rectum and other parts of its body, and the resounding
noise occasioned by striking upon it proves that it is hollow internally.

Fifth, No statue was ever sculptured in this or a similar position. The position is precisely
that which a person would assume who was suffering an agony which was to result in death. 
The hands pressing opposite sides of the lower part of the body and one leg drawn up and pressed
against the other is the effort of expiring humanity to relieve itself from pain.  The sculptor's
chisel and the painter's brush have often been called upon to represent scenes of death in
all its various forms and manifestations.  Yet have they never attained the simplicity, the
impressiveness, the vivid naturalness of the story told by the figure which lies in yonder clay.

Sixth, It should also be observed that a sculptor who had the genius to form such a figure
would naturally keep a proper and harmonious proportion in the different parts of the body,
but it will be noticed in this subject that the feet are unusually broad, projecting far beyond
the natural lines of the leg, and giving evidence of usage which has caused what is almost
a deformity.

Seventh, If a statue, why should one of the eyes differ so much from the other, one of them
being open, and one nearly or quite shut?

Eighth, If this figure is a statue, explain how it has been transported and handled to place
it in its present position.  It is estimated by the best judges that the figure weighs from
a ton and a half to two tons.  This immense weight could not have been transported by any known
means of transportation in the neighborhood of the figure, and it could not have been handled
without the aid of machinery.

Ninth, Perhaps the greatest objection to the statue theory is the last on which I shall mention,
and that is the majestic simplicity and grandeur of the figure itself.  It is not unsafe to
affirm that ninety-nine out of every hundred persons who have seen this would have become immediately
and instantly impressed with the idea that they were in the presence of an object not made
by mortal hand, and that the figure before them once lived and had its being like those who
stood around it.  This feeling arises from the awful naturalness of the figure and its position.
No piece of sculpture of which we have any account ever produced the awe inspired by this blackened
form lying among the common and every-day surroundings of a country farm yard.

We see objects of larger size every day, formed from materials which excite our wonder or admiration,
and upon which have been bestowed the highest skill of the artist, the sculptor and the painter,
but there is in that blackened mass, that worn and impaired as it is by the action of the elements,
and repulsive from the nature and color of the material forming it, which inspires an awe and
reverence such as the handiwork of a mortal, no matter how gifted, has ever accomplished. 
I venture to affirm that no living sculptor can be produced who will say this figure was conceived
and executed by any human hand.  But Mr. Editor I am afraid I have trespassed too far on your
attention and space. There is much more to be said on the subject, which at a future time I
will say.  R.

The present owners of the Giant have engaged Col. J.W. Wood, known all over the country as
a popular showman, as their manager. To-night Mr. W. will have a much larger tent (forty feet)
over his giantship, so that hereafter many more can be accommodated at a time--whether they
can see better we are not sure.

From the Syracuse Journal, October 23d, 1869.

SPEAKING OF THE CARDIFF GIANT. Reports of Committees. Three of us--Tom, Dick and Harry--interviewed
the stone wonder on Thursday of this week, and here are our reports.  Tom sees everything from
a ludicrous point of view, and is nothing if not funny.  Dick is a common-sense fellow, who
makes up in positiveness what he lacks in education;  and I am--Yours, very respectfully, A.C.

TOM'S REPORT. His Majestic Highness was in bed when we reached the royal residence although
it was high noon by the dial.

But the obliging janitor was convinced, by a single glance at the cards we presented, that
it would not do to refuse us admission. We found the Noble Duke divested of wearing apparel
and enjoying his morning ablution, which was administered by a valet de chambre, who stood
on a platform above His Excellency, and held him down with a ten foot pole.  The countenance
of the great man expressed composure and serenity.  His eyes were closed and his general appearance
and attitude were limp and cadaverous, causing us to fear, for a moment, that His Mightiness
might be dead instead of sleeping.

Our apprehensions were allayed, however, when the irreverent attendant punched his Sublime
Majesty in the head and chest, and elicited an impatient, cavernous, responsive "ugh!"

Having feasted our eyes on the unveiled grandeur of the stupendous Knight, we begged permission
of his keeper to get into the Imperial bed and embrace the gigantic feet.  We begged in vain.
Let us then grasp that autocratic right hand, which reminds us so touchingly of the dear, fat,
fried-cake hands Bridget used to mould for us in our infancy.  Our request was declined with
emphasis.  May we not breathe an affectionate word into that dexter ear, which seems placed
far down towards his shoulder as if on purpose to receive our tender message?  "He's deaf,"
said the heartless man with the pole.  Let us at least give him one-- just one--kiss for his
mother.  "He never had no mother," responded the inexorable valet, and we turned sadly away
from the Kingly presence of the sweet, sleeping orphan.

As we wended our homeward way we gave ourself up to meditation, while our companions gave themselves
up to sandwiches and boiled eggs.

We called to mind the striking resemblance in form and features, which the vast monarch bears
to the Stoneman family, and we rejoiced that a gallant General of our army could trace his
ancestry to one who stood so high in the community.

From appearances we should judge the seraphic Emperor to be a man of property--worth at least
fifty thousand dollars.

Whether he were so or not, we certainly were petrified-- with astonishment.

Yours for the right, THOMAS.

DICK'S REPORT.

There's no use talking;  that fellow was once a living and breathing human being.  In my opinion
he walked these hills and valleys, just the same as we do, thousands and thousands of years
ago.  We read of the sons of Anak, but this chap was the father of Anak.  It is beyond the
art of man to carve so perfect a human being out of stone.  Anybody who could sculp like that
could have made his fortune, without hiding his work away and letting it be discovered by accident
in after ages.  And who ever saw a piece of statuary in such a position, and without hair on?

The man that says that this petrified man is nothing but a graven image, proves that he is
a little soft in the upper story.  There is no shadow of doubt that this is a genuine petrifaction.
I would take my oath of it.  Dr. Boynton writes a long rigmarole to show that he is a statue
made by the Jesuits;  but in my opinion the Dr. is just laying low so that he can buy the curiosity
and make his pile on him.  Why, you can see the very cords in his legs, where the flesh has
decayed off;  and the matter running out of his right eye has turned to stone.  Would the Jesuits
have been likely to carve cords and tears?  The idea is too absurd to be thought of.  This
is my report, and I don't care what anybody else says.  RICHARD.

HARRY'S REPORT.

Whether the colossal figure be a petrifaction or a piece of statuary, it is a mystery and a
success.  Who carved it?.  When was it made?  Whom does it represent?  What is its lesson?
Why was it hidden?  How happens it that tradition is silent about it?  These are puzzling questions,
which at present are solved only by conjecture.

Let no one imagine that he has an adequate conception of this wonder till he has seen it, with
his own eyes.  Description seems to be no aid whatever;  ocular inspection is positively necessary.

He who fails to see the curiosity in its present locality and position, will have reason to
regret this neglect or misfortune all his life time.

I was not permitted to make a careful and thorough examination.

"Hands off," was the imperative order of the proprietor, and I bowed to the decreer.  I craved
permission to apply a drop of acid in order to determine certainly whether the material was
gypsum or ordinary limestone, but my request was denied.  If on the application of acid there
had been no effervescence, the inference would be that the specimen was not limestone, the
material of which petrifactions are usually composed.  But although chemical tests and manipulations
were prohibited, there seemed to be no disposition to forbid the use of our eyes--at a respectful
distance.  And the proprietor very kindly refrained from exacting a promise that we would not
express an opinion, if we should have temerity enough to form one.

I take it that this specimen was carefully placed in its present locality.  Had it been washed
from a distance, it would have been fractured and mutilated, and it would not in all likelihood,
have lodged in its present easy and natural position.

If this were once a living man, he must have died ages and ages ago. If buried, the accumulated
deposits upon his grave, in this low piece of ground, during thousands of years would have
been deeper than three feet.  If he were drowned, or if he lay down on the surface of the earth
to die, the flesh would have decayed and dropped from his bones without petrification.  If
he were petrified in his present locality, we ought to find other petrifications in its immediate
neighborhood, whereas all the twigs and branches which covered and surrounded him are free
from the slightest encrustation.

Human bodies do not petrify in layers;  but the strata in the Cardiff giant, especially on
the left side, are as manifest as they are in a ledge of rocks.  The eye brows, the tip of
the nose, the breast and the thigh are of the same stratum, and the layers in the right arm
are clearly of different degrees of density.

The conclusion seems irresistible that the giant is a work of art rather than of nature.  The
sculpture must have been done some years ago, or the lower parts of the figure would not have
crumbled and been washed away by the sluggish oozing of the water through the soil.

Its age cannot antedate the present race of men, for the shape of the head and the features
are entirely modern.  The old-time people, as portrayed in the sculpture of Assyria and Egypt,
had no such heads as this.  The artist evidently took a corpse for a model and proportioned
his colossal figure by careful measurement.  He was thus enabled to secure the general anatomical
accuracy for which his giant is remarkable.  He followed the model very closely, not attempting
to represent a living being, not venturing even to supply the missing hair.  And these omissions,
the result of inexperience, furnish, singularly enough, the principal arguments to the petrifactionists.
For the popular opinion that the body and head are hollow, that the nostrils and other orifices
are open, and that the tendons in the decayed leg are visible, has not the slightest foundation.
Why was this image made?  Why hidden? and by whom? are questions which I must be excused from
answering at present.  HENRY

THE BELIEF OF THE ONONDAGA INDIANS--THE BODY OF AN INDIAN PROPHET.

To the Editor of the Syracuse Journal:-- In your columns devoted to "Letters from the People,"
I thought you would at this time publish the following, it being interesting as one of the
current opinions of the Indians of "the Castle" regarding the wonderful "human petrified statue,"
which, in its colossal proportions and the sphynx-like silence of its history is so electrifying
and exciting the people.

By one of the old squaws I am told that a large number of Onondagas believe that the statue
is the petrified body of a gigantic Indian prophet, who flourished many centuries ago, and
who foretold the coming of the pale-faces, though long before the foot of our forefathers had
touched the western continent.  He warned his people with prophetic fervor of the coming encroachments
of the white man, and the necessity of their abstinence from a poison drink he would bring
to craze and destroy them.  He told them that he should die and be buried out of their sight,
but that THEIR DESCENDANT WOULD SEE HIM--AGAIN.  J.P. FOSTER, State Agent and Teacher for the
Onondaga Indians.

THE STONE GIANT.

On Saturday the sale of the remaining one-half interest in the Great Giant Wonder was closed
up.  Another partner, Mr. Wm. Spencer --an old-time schoolmate of Mr. Newell--was taken in,
so that the present owners are Wm. C. Newell, of Cardiff, Alfred Higgins, Dr. Amos Westcott
and Amos Gillett, of this city, David H. Hannurn, of Homer, and Wm. Spencer, of Utica.

Saturday was a bad day, as to weather;  nevertheless several hundred visited the Giant.

Sunday was a crusher.  The people began to go early, and kept going all day long.  From eleven
to three o'clock it was a dense mass of people on the Newell farm.  Around the house and barns
acres were covered with teams and wagons, and the road, for a long distance in either direction,
was lined with them.  It seemed as if such another jam never went to a show before, and it
was with great difficulty that the line could be kept so that all could have a fair sight.
All the proprietors were on hand, and did all they could to accommodate the crowd.  At three
P.M. twenty-three hundred tickets had been sold, Mr. Higgins bringing in the $1,150 received
therefor, for safety.  Not less than three hundred tickets were sold after three o'clock, so
the total number of visitors for the day would be 2,600.

The Tully story of fraud is exploded.  The mysterious man said to have visited that village,
etc., turns out to be no other than a cousin of Mr. Newell's, a resident of Binghamton, and
a tobacconist. He was on the grounds all day yesterday, and frankly told all there was of his
visit at the time alleged, to the satisfaction of every one.

LETTER FROM A PETRIFACTIONIST.

EDITOR STANDARD:--Permit me to notice a few of the arguments upon the Cardiff discovery, appearing
in your paper of Saturday last, and the Journal of the same day.

