In the second place, the Nationalist movement has drawn all the Protestant bodies together
as nothing else could. Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Methodists have all joined hands in
the defence of their common liberties. The Nationalists have left no stone unturned in their
efforts to prove that the northern Protestants are disloyal. They have succeeded in finding
one speech that was made by an excited orator (not a leader) forty-four years ago, to the effect
that the Disestablishment of the Church might result in the Queen's Crown being kicked into
the Boyne. As this is the only instance they can rake up, it has been quoted in the House of
Commons and elsewhere again and again; and Mr. Birrell (whose knowledge of Ireland seems to
be entirely derived from Nationalist speeches) has recently elaborated it by saying that when
the Church was going to be disestablished "they used to declare" that the Queen's Crown would
be kicked into the Boyne, and yet their threats came to nothing and therefore the result of
Home Rule will be the same. The fact was that the Church establishment was the last relic of
Protestant Ascendancy; and as I have already shown, that meant Anglican ascendancy in which
Presbyterianism did not participate; hence, when the agitation for Disestablishment arose,
though some few Presbyterians greatly disliked it, their opposition as a whole was lukewarm.
But when in 1886 Home Rule became a question of practical politics, they rose up against it
as one man; in 1893, when the second Home Rule Bill was introduced and actually passed the
House of Commons, they commenced organising their Volunteer army to resist it, if necessary,
by force of arms; and they are just as keen to-day as they were twenty years ago. They are
certainly not disloyal; the republican spirit which permeated their ancestors in the eighteenth
century has long since died out completely. Sir Walter Scott said that if he had lived at the
time of the Union between Scotland and England, he would have fought against it; but, living
a century later and seeing the benefit that it had been to his country, his feelings were all
on the other side. That is what the Presbyterians of Ulster say to-day. They point to the way
in which Ulster has, under the Union, been able to develop itself; with no richer soil, no
better climate, and no greater natural advantages than other parts of Ireland, the energy,
ability, and true patriotism of the people have enabled them to establish and encourage commerce
and manufactures which have brought wealth and prosperity to Ulster whilst the other Provinces
have been stationary or retrograde. There cannot be a better instance of the different spirit
which animates the two communities than the history of the linen industry. Michael Davitt bitterly
described it as "Not an Irish, but an Orange industry." And from his point of view, he was
quite right; for it is practically confined to Ulster. In that Province it has during the nineteenth
century developed so steadily that the annual export now exceeds £15,000,000 in value and more
than 70,000 hands are employed in the mills. Not long ago, a Royal Commission was appointed
to enquire whether it was not possible to grow flax in the south and west, and if so why it
was not done. The Commission made careful enquiries, and reported that in both Munster and
Connaught efforts had been made to establish the industry (notably by the late Lord Bandon,
one of the much-abused landlord class, who had let land for the purpose at a nominal charge,
obtained seed and brought experts from the north to instruct the people); that it had been
proved that both soil and climate were quite as well adapted for it as in Ulster; but that
after a few years the buyers refused any longer to purchase the flax as it was so carelessly
and badly prepared that it was valueless; and so the industry had died out. In both south and
west the people expressed their readiness to revive it if a large grant were made to them by
the Government, but not otherwise.

Then again we may take the growth of the cities. It seems hard now to realise that one reason
why the people of Dublin opposed the Union was because they feared lest, when their city ceased
to be the capital, Cork might grow into a great industrial centre and surpass it. Cork has
remained stationary ever since; Belfast, then an insignificant country town, has become a city
of 400,000 inhabitants, and the customs from it alone are more than double those from all the
rest of Ireland put together. And what is true of Belfast is true also on a smaller scale of
all the other towns north of the Boyne.

This remarkable contrast between the progress of the north-east and the stagnation of the rest
of the country is no new thing. It has been observed ever since the Union. So long ago as 1832
the Report of the Commission on the linen manufacture of Ireland contained the following words:--

    "Political and religious animosities and dissensions, and
    increasing agitation first for one object and then for
    another have so destroyed confidence and shaken the bonds of
    society--undermined men's principles and estranged
    neighbour from neighbour, friend from friend, and class
    from class--that, in lieu of observing any common effort
    to ameliorate the condition of the people, we find every
    proposition for this object, emanate from which party it may,
    received with distrust by the other; maligned, perverted and
    destroyed, to gratify the political purposes of a faction....
    The comparative prosperity enjoyed by that portion of Ireland
    where tranquillity ordinarily prevails, such as the Counties
    Down, Antrim, and Derry, testify the capabilities of Ireland
    to work out her own regeneration, when freed of the disturbing
    causes which have so long impeded her progress in civilization
    and improvement. We find there a population hardy, healthy and
    employed; capital fast flowing into the district; new sources
    of employment daily developing themselves; a people well
    disposed alike to the government and institutions of their
    country; and not distrustful and jealous of their superiors.
    Contrast the social condition of these people with such
    pictures as we have presented to us from other districts."

This energetic, self-reliant and prosperous community now see before their eyes what the practical
working of government by the League is. They see it generally in the condition of the country,
and especially in the Dublin Convention of 1909, the narrow-minded administration of the Local
Government Act wherever the power of the League prevails, and the insecurity for life and property
in the west; they know also that a Home Rule Government must mean increased taxation (as the
Nationalists themselves confess) which will probably--in fact, one may almost say must certainly,
as no other source is available--be thrown on the Ulster manufactures; is it not therefore
a matter of life and death to them to resist it to the uttermost?

But as I have said, the great line of cleavage is religion. Here I know that I shall be accused
of "Orange bigotry." But I am not afraid of the charge; first because I do not happen to be
an Orangeman; and secondly because I regard bigotry as the outcome of ignorance and prejudice,
and consider therefore that a calm examination of the evidence is the very antithesis of bigotry.
In order to make this examination I desire in the first place to avoid the mistake that Grattan
made in judging the probabilities of the future from the opinions of personal friends whom
I like and respect, but who, as I know (and regret to think), possess no influence whatever.
I consider that there are other data--such as works of authority, the action of the public
bodies, statements by men in prominent positions, and articles in leading journals--from which
it is safer to form an estimate. The Ulstermen are content that the country should be governed,
as far as religion is concerned, on modern principles--that is to say, in much the same way
that England, Australia and New Zealand are governed to-day. The Nationalists, whatever they
may say in England or the Colonies, have never in Ireland from the commencement of the movement
attempted to deny that their object is to see Ireland governed on principles which are totally
different and which the Ulstermen detest. As long ago as 1886, the Freeman's Journal, the leading
Nationalist organ, said:--

    "We contend that the good government of Ireland by England
    is impossible ... the one people has not only accepted but
    retained with inviolable constancy the Christian faith;
    the other has not only rejected it, but has been for three
    centuries the leader of the great apostasy, and is at this day
    the principal obstacle to the conversion of the world."

And as recently as December 1912, Professor Nolan of Maynooth, addressing the Roman Catholic
students at the Belfast University, said:--

    "Humanly speaking, we are on the eve of Home Rule. We shall
    have a free hand in the future. Let us use it well. This is
    a Catholic country, and if we do not govern it on Catholic
    lines, according to Catholic ideals, and to safe-guard
    Catholic interests, it will be all the worse for the country
    and all the worse for us. We have now a momentous opportunity
    of changing the whole course of Irish history."

Then another of their papers, the Rosary, has said: "We have played the game of tolerance until
the game is played out"; and has prophesied that under Home Rule the Church will become an
irresistible engine before whom all opposition must go down. And whatever the educated laity
may desire, no one who knows Ireland can doubt that it is the clerical faction that will be
all-powerful. The leading ecclesiastics are trained at the Gregorian University at Rome; and
one of the Professors at that institution, in a work published in 1901 with the special approval
of Pope Leo XIII, enunciated the doctrine that it is the duty of a Christian State to put to
death heretics who have been condemned by the Ecclesiastical Court. Of course no one supposes
that such a thing will ever take place in Ireland; but what the Ulstermen object to is putting
themselves under the rule of men who have been trained in such principles and believe them
to be approved by an infallible authority.

In 1904 some foreign merchants at Barcelona wished to build a church for themselves. Republican
feeling is so strong in the municipality that permission was obtained without difficulty. But
the bishop at once protested and appealed to the King. The King wrote back a sympathetic letter
expressing his deep regret that he was unable to prevent this fresh attack on the Catholic faith.

We are constantly being told that the tolerance and liberality shown by the majority in Quebec
is sufficient of itself to prove how foolish are the apprehensions felt by the minority in
Ireland. Well, I will quote from a journal which cannot be accused of Protestant bias, the
Irish Independent, one of the leading organs of the Nationalist-clerical party in Ireland:--

    "(From our own Correspondent.)

    "Montreal, Thursday.

    "In connection with the celebration of the anniversary of
    Wolfe's victory and death, which takes place in September,
    prominent members of the Anglican Church have inaugurated a
    movement for the erection of a Wolfe Memorial Chapel on
    the Plains of Abraham. The organisers of the movement hope
    ultimately to secure the transfer of the General's remains to
    the chapel for interment on the scene of his victory.

    "The population being largely French-Canadian Catholics, the
    Catholic Church organ of Quebec strongly protests against
    the erection of an Anglican chapel in the heart of a Catholic
    district."

Now if this conduct on the part of the Roman Catholic authorities is quite right at Barcelona
and Quebec, why is it "Orange bigotry" to suggest that the same people may act in the same
way at Cork or Galway?

Again, in 1910, a remarkable volume was published, written by Mrs. Hugh Fraser, the sister
of the novelist, Marion Crawford, entitled "A Diplomat's Wife in Many Lands." The authoress
was a very able woman, who had travelled much and mixed in cultured society wherever she had
been; her book was highly reviewed by various English Magazines. She tells the story of a child
of Jewish parents living at Rome in the days of Pope Pius IX, who was secretly baptized in
infancy by a nurse, and at the age of seven was forcibly taken from his parents and placed
in a Convent School. She explains that not only was this quite right, but that such a course
is inevitable in every country in which the Church has power; and that the feelings of the
heretic mother whose child is taken from her are a fair subject of ridicule on the part of
good Catholics. Can Irish Protestants be accused of bigotry when they contend that these writers
mean what they say? English Nonconformists argue that they ought to wait until the time comes
and then either fight or leave the country; but the Irish Protestants reply that it is more
sensible to take steps beforehand to ward off the danger. And whether they are right or wrong,
the fact remains that those are their ideas, and that is their determination; and this is the
situation which must be faced if Home Rule is forced upon the people of Ulster.

By a striking coincidence, two meetings have recently been held on the same day--the 16th of
May 1913--which form an apt illustration of the position adopted by the two parties. The first
was a great demonstration of Unionists at Belfast, organised in order to make a further protest
against the Bill and to perfect the organisation for opposing it by force, if the necessity
arises; the second was a large meeting of the United Irish League at Mullingar. The Chairman,
Mr. Ginnell, M.P. (who has gained prominence and popularity by his skill in arranging cattle-drives),
said that the chief cause of the pressure last session was to get the Home Rule Bill through
its first stage. It was still called a Home Rule Bill, though differing widely from what most
of them always understood by Home Rule. Deeply though he regretted the Bill's defects and limitations,
still he thought almost any Parliament in Ireland was worth accepting--first, because it was
in some sense a recognition of the right to govern themselves; and secondly, because even a
crippled Parliament would give them fresh leverage for complete freedom. No one could be silly
enough to suppose that an intelligent Ireland, having any sort of a Parliament of its own,
would be prevented by any promise given now by place-hunters, from using that Parliament for
true national purposes.

That no army which the Ulstermen can form will be able to stand against British troops supported
by cavalry and artillery is evident; but it seems almost past belief that England should be
ready to plunge the country into civil war; or that British troops should march out--with bands
playing "Bloody England, we hate you still," or some other inspiring Nationalist air--to shoot
down Ulstermen who will come to meet them waving the Union Jack and shouting "God save the
King." And if they do--what then? Lord Wolseley, when Commander-in-Chief in Ireland in 1893,
pointed out the probable effect on the British Army in a letter to the Duke of Cambridge:--

    "If ever our troops are brought into collision with the
    loyalists of Ulster, and blood is shed, it will shake the
    whole foundations upon which our army rests to such an extent
    that I feel that our Army will never be the same again. Many
    officers will resign to join Ulster, and there will be such
    a host of retired officers in the Ulster ranks that men who
    would stand by the Government no matter what it did, will be
    worse than half-hearted in all they do. No army could stand
    such a strain upon it."

And then England, having crushed her natural allies in Ulster, will hand over the Government
of Ireland to a party whose avowed object is to break up the Empire and form a separate Republic.
Dangers and difficulties arose even when the independent legislature of Ireland was in the
hands of men who were loyal and patriotic in the noblest sense of the term, and when there
were in every district a certain number of educated gentlemen of position who (as we have seen)
were always ready to risk their lives and fortunes for the defence of the realm; what will
happen when the loyal minority have been shot down, driven out of the country, or forced into
bitter hostility to the Government who have betrayed and deserted them? As Lecky wrote years ago:--

    "It is scarcely possible to over-estimate the danger
    that would arise if the vast moral legislative, and even
    administrative powers which every separate legislature must
    necessarily possess, were exercised in any near and vital
    part of the British Empire, by men who were disloyal to its
    interests. To place the government of a country by a voluntary
    and deliberate act in the hands of dishonest and disloyal men,
    is perhaps the greatest crime that a public man can commit:
    a crime which, in proportion to the strength and soundness of
    national morality, must consign those who are guilty of it to
    undying infamy."

If English people are so blind that they cannot perceive this, foreigners, whose vision is
clearer, have warned them.

    "The legislative supremacy of the British Parliament against
    the assertion of which the American Colonists revolted
    and which to-day would be found intolerable in Canada and
    Australia cannot be yielded in the case of an island, where
    independent action might very well be attended with fatal
    consequences to its partner.

So then, having reviewed the evidence as calmly and dispassionately as I can, I answer the
two questions which I propounded at the outset of the enquiry--That the real objects of the
Nationalists are the total separation of Ireland from England and the establishment of an Independent
Republic; and that the men of Ulster in resisting them to the uttermost are not merely justified
on the ground of self-preservation, but are in reality fighting for the cause of the Empire.

NOTE.

The following Report of the Annual Pilgrimage in memory of Wolfe Tone, which took place on
the 22nd of June last, and the article in the Leinster Leader (a prominent Nationalist journal)
will show how closely the Nationalists of to-day follow in the footsteps of Wolfe Tone.

THE MEMORY OF WOLFE TONE.

ANNUAL PILGRIMAGE TO BODENSTOWN.

(From our Reporter.)

On Sunday last the annual pilgrimage to the grave of Theobald Wolfe Tone took place to Bodenstown
churchyard. This year the numbers who attended exceeded those of last year, about a thousand
coming from Dublin and another contingent from Tullamore, Clare, and Athlone. The procession
formed outside Sallins station was a most imposing one, being made up of St. James' Brass Band
and the Lorcan O'Toole Pipers' Band and the Athlone Pipers' Band, the National Boy Scouts,
the Daughters of Erin, and members of the Wolfe Tone Memorial Clubs.

At the graveside demonstration, Mr. Thos. J. Clarke presided and said it was a gratifying thing
that numbers of their fellow-countrymen were to-day swinging back to the old fighting line
and taking pride in the old Fenian principles. He introduced Mr. P.H. Pearse, B.A.

Mr. Pearse then came forward and delivered an eloquent and impressive oration, first speaking
in Irish. Speaking in English, he said they had come to the holiest place in Ireland, holier
to them than that sacred spot where Patrick sleeps in Down. Patrick brought them life, but
Wolfe Tone died for them. Though many had testified in death to the truth of Ireland's claim
to Nationhood, Wolfe Tone was the greatest of all that had made that testimony; he was the
greatest of Ireland's dead. They stood in the holiest place in Ireland, for what spot of the
Nation's soil could be holier than the spot in which the greatest of her dead lay buried. He
found it difficult to speak in that place, and he knew they all partook of his emotion. There
were no strangers there for they were all in a sense own brothers to Tone (hear, hear). They
shared his faith, his hope still unrealised and his great love. They had come there that day
not merely to salute this noble dust and to pay their homage to the noble spirit of Tone, but
to renew their adhesion to the faith of Tone and to express their full acceptance of the gospel
of which Tone had given such a clear definition. That gospel had been taught before him by
English-speaking men, uttered half-articulately by Shan O'Neill, expressed in some passionate
metaphor by Geoffrey Keating, and hinted at by Swift in some bitter jibe, but it was stated
definitely and emphatically by Wolfe Tone and it did not need to be ever again stated anew
for any new generation. Tone was great in mind, but he was still greater in spirit. He had
the clear vision of the prophet; he saw things as they were and saw things as they would be.
They owed more to this dead man than they should be ever able to repay him by making pilgrimages
to his grave or building the stateliest monuments in the streets of his city. They owed it
to him that there was such a thing as Irish Nationalism; to his memory and the memory of '98
they owed it that there was any manhood left in Ireland (hear, hear). The soul of Wolfe Tone
was like a burning flame, a flame so pure, so ardent, so generous, that to come into communion
with it was as a new optimism and regeneration. Let them try in some way to get into contact
with the spirit of Tone and possess themselves of its ardour. If they could do that it would
be a good thing for them and their country, because they would carry away with them a new life
from that place of death and there would be a new resurrection of patriotic grace in their
souls (hear, hear). Let them think of Tone; think of his boyhood and young manhood in Dublin
and in Kildare; think of his adventurous spirit and plans, think of his glorious failure at
the bar, and his healthy contempt for what he called a foolish wig and gown, think how the
call of Ireland came to him; think how he obeyed that call; think how he put virility into
the Catholic movement; think how this heretic toiled to make freemen of Catholic helots (applause).
Think how he grew to love the real and historic Irish nation, and then there came to him that
clear conception that there must be in Ireland not three nations but one; that Protestant and
Dissenter must close in amity with Catholic, and Catholic, Protestant and Dissenter must unite
to achieve freedom for all (applause). Let them consider the sacrifices Tone had made; he had
to leave so much. Never was there a man who was so richly endowed as he was, he had so much
love in his warm heart. He (speaker) would rather have known Tone than any other man of whom
he ever read or heard. He never read of any one man who had more in him of the heroic stuff
than Tone had; how gaily and gallantly he had set about the doing of a mighty thing. He (speaker)
had always loved the very name of Thomas Russell because Tone so loved him. To be Tone's friend!
What a privilege! for Tone had for his friends an immense love, an immense charity. He had
such love for his wife and children! But such was the destiny of the heroes of their nation;
they had to stifle in their hearts all that love and that sweet music and to follow only the
faint voice that called them to the battlefield or to the harder death at the foot of the gibbet.
Tone heard that voice and obeyed it and from his grave to-day he was calling on them and they
were there to answer his voice; and they pledged themselves to carry out his programme to abolish
the connection with England, the never-failing source of political evils and to establish the
independence of their country, to abolish the memory of past dissensions, and to replace for
the denominations of Protestant, Catholic and Dissenter, the common name of Irishman (applause).
In that programme was to be found the whole philosophy of Irish Nationality; that programme
included the philosophy of the Gaelic League and of later prophets, and it was to that programme
they pledged their adhesion; they pledged it now at the graveside of Tone; they pledged themselves
to follow in the steps of Tone, never to rest by day or night until this be accomplished, until
Ireland be free (applause); fighting on, not in despondency, but in great joy as Tone fought;
prizing it above all privileges, and hoping for the victory in their own day. And if it should
be granted to them in this generation to complete the work that Tone's generation left unaccomplished!
But if that was not their destiny, they should fight on still, hoping still, self-sacrificing
still, knowing as they must know that causes like this did not lose for ever, and that men
like Tone did not die in vain (applause).

The address having concluded, wreaths were placed on the grave by the National Boy Scouts and
the Inghanite Na h-Eireann.

During the afternoon an aeridheacht was held in an adjoining field at which music, songs and
recitations were contributed, and a thoroughly enjoyable Irish-Ireland evening was spent.

AT THE GRAVE OF WOLFE TONE.

