Max was silent for a moment, thinking, and Sanda watched his face in the growing light. It
was haggard and set for a face so young, but there was still in the eyes, which stared unseeingly
across the desert, the warm, generous light that had once convinced her of the man's heroic
capacity for self-sacrifice. "He is one who always gives," she thought. And something within
her said that Stanton was not of those. He was one born not to give, but to take. Yet how glad
every one must be, as she was, to give to him!

Max was greatly surprised and deeply touched by Sanda's care for him at such a time. And he
was almost bewildered by the strange answer that had come to his self-questioning. He had felt
a passionate reluctance to leave her with Stanton, not only because he himself loved and wanted
her, but because her marriage was to be only half a marriage, and because Stanton was what
he was. If the man tired of her, if he found her too delicate for the trials she would have
to endure, the girl's life in the desert would be terribly hard. Max dared not think what it
might be. He had felt that it would tear his heart out to see her going unprotected except
by that fanatic, to be swallowed up by the merciless mystery of the desert. But because she
had decided to go, and because she thought she had need of no one in the world except Stanton,
Max had made up his mind that he must stand by and let her go. Now, suddenly, it was different.
She wanted him as well as Stanton. True, it was only because she wished to save him, but she
would be grieved if he refused. What if he should accept--that is, if Stanton were of the same
mind as Sanda--and let them both suppose that his motive in joining them was to keep out of
prison? He knew that his true reason would be other than that if he went. But searching his
soul, he saw there no wrong to Stanton's wife. He would not go with that pair of lovers for
his own pleasure, and no suffering he could endure, even in the Bat d'Aff, would be equal to
seeing Sanda day after day, night after night, when she had given herself to Stanton. All he
wanted was to be near her if he were needed. He could never justify himself to Colonel DeLisle
or to any one else in the world by telling the truth; but because it was the truth, in his
own eyes perhaps he might be justified.

"Have you thought long enough?" Sanda asked. "Can't you decide, and save my happiness?"

Save her happiness!...

"I have decided," Max said. "If Mr. Stanton will let a deserter join his caravan I will go."

CHAPTER XXVI

SANDA'S WEDDING NIGHT

What arguments the explorer used none save himself and the priest from Touggourt would ever
know. But the priest came and married Sanda to Stanton according to the rites of the Catholic
Church. In his eyes, as in the eyes of the girl, it was enough; for was she not, in the sight
of heaven, a wife?

Stanton professed himself not only glad, but thankful, to have Max as a recruit for his expedition.
He agreed with Sanda that it would be Quixotic, in the circumstances, to go back to Sidi-bel-Abbés.

"You'd be a damn fool, my boy," he said emphatically, "to go and offer yourself a lamb for
the sacrifice!" It did not occur to him that Max was offering himself on the altar of another
temple of sacrifice. He thought the young man was "jolly lucky" to escape from the mess he
had tumbled into and get the chance of a glorious adventure with Richard Stanton. It had been
a blow and even a humiliation to the explorer that all the Europeans he had asked to accompany
him had refused, either on the spot, or after deliberation. He believed in himself and his
vision so completely, and had snatched so many successes out of the jaws of disaster, that
it was galling not to be believed in by others, in this, the crowning venture of his life.
If he could find the Lost Oasis he would be the most famous man in the world, or so he put
it to himself; and any European with him would share the glory. It had been almost maddening
to combat vainly, for once in his career, the objections and sneers of skeptics.

People had said that if no European, not even a doctor, would join him in his "mad mission,"
he would be forced to give it up. But he had found a fierce satisfaction in disappointing them
and in showing the world that he, unaided, could carry through a project which daunted all
who heard of it. He had triumphed over immense obstacles in getting together his caravan, for
Arabs and Soudanese had been superstitiously depressed by the fact that the mighty Stanton
could persuade no man of his own race to believe in the Lost Oasis. It was only his unique
force of character that had made the expedition possible at last; that and his knowledge of
medicine, even of "white and black" magic, his mastery of desert dialects, his eloquence in
the language of those who hesitated, working them up to his own pitch of enthusiasm by descriptions
of what he believed the Lost Oasis to be: a land of milk and honey, with wives and treasure
enough for all, even the humblest. Napoleon, the greatest general of the French, had wished
to search for the Lost Oasis, marching from Tripolitania to Egypt, but had abandoned the undertaking
because of other duties, not because he ceased to believe. The golden flower of the desert
had been left for Stanton and his band to pluck. Threats, persuasion, bribes, had collected
for him a formidable force. If he had lingered at Touggourt, after getting the necessary men
together, no one had dared to suggest in his hearing that it was because a desert dancing-woman
was beautiful. He had always had weighty reasons to allege, even to himself: the stores were
not satisfactory; the oil provided was not good; camels fell ill and substitutes had to be
got; he was obliged to wait for corn to be ground into the African substitute for macaroni;
Winchester rifles and ammunition promised for his fighting men did not turn up till long after
the date specified in his contract. But now he was off on the great adventure; and, gloriously
sure that all credit would be his, he was sincerely glad to have Max as a follower, humble
yet congenial.

His meeting with Sanda seemed to Stanton a good omen. Since Ahmara had deserted him in a fury,
because of the humiliation put upon her during DeLisle's visit, he had been in a black rage.
Days had been lost in searching for her, because she had disappeared. He had dreamed at night
of choking the dancer's life out, and shooting the man who had stolen her from him, for he
had no doubt of the form her revenge had taken. In the end, he had decided to put her from
his mind, persuading himself that he was sick to death of the tigress-woman whom he had thought
of carrying with him on the long desert march. Still, he had been sad and thwarted, and the
music of the tomtoms and räitas, instead of tributes to his triumph, had been like voices mocking
at his failure. Then Sanda had magically appeared in the desert: fair and sweet as the moon
in contrast with the parching sun. He had held out his arms on the impulse and she had fallen
into them. Her youth, her white beauty in the blue night, lit a flame in him, and he fanned
it greedily. It was good to know that he was young enough still to light another fire so soon
on half-cold ashes. He revelled in making himself believe that he loved the girl. He respected
and admired himself for it, and he drank in eagerly the story she told him in whispers, at
the door of her tent in the night: the story of childish, hopeless hero-worship for her "Sir
Knight." He was so confident of her adoring love that jealousy of Max would have seemed absurd,
though Max was twenty-six and Stanton twenty years older. If it had occurred to him that Max
might be romantically in love with Sanda, the idea would not have displeased him or made him
hesitate to take the younger man as a member of his escort. There was a cruel streak running
through Stanton's nature which even Sanda dimly realized, though it did not diminish her love.
There were moods when he enjoyed seeing pain and inflicting it; and there were stories told
of things he had done in such moods: stories told in whispers; tales of whipping black men
to death when they had been caught deserting from his caravans; tales of striking down insubordinates
and leaving them unconscious to die in the desert. It would have amused Stanton, if the idea
had presented itself, to think of a love-sick young man helplessly watching him teach an uninstructed
young girl the art of becoming a woman. But the idea did not present itself. He was too deeply
absorbed in himself, and in trying to think how infinitely superior was a white dove like Sanda
to a creature of the Ahmara type. He wished savagely that Ahmara might hear--when it was too
late--of his marriage within a few days after their parting.

When the wedding ceremony was over the caravan started on at once, in order to reach, not too
late, a certain small oasis on the route where Stanton wished to camp on his marriage night.
He described the place glowingly to Max. There was no town there, he said, only a few tents
belonging to the chief of a neighbour tribe to Ben Râana's. The men there guarded an artesian
well whose water spouted up like a fountain. Though the oasis was small, its palms were unusually
beautiful, and the group of tall trees with their spreading branches was like a green temple
set in the midst of the desert. Altogether, Stanton remarked, it was an ideal spot for the
beginning of a honeymoon. His eyes were more brilliant than ever as he spoke, and Max turned
his head away not to see the other man's face, because the look on it made him want to kill
Stanton. The martyrdom he knew awaited him had already begun.

Before starting into the unknown Max bought from the leader of his own camel-men some garments
which Khadra had washed for her husband at Ben Râana's douar. They were to be ready for his
return to Touggourt, and were still as clean as the brackish water of the desert could make
them. Dressed as an Arab, Max made a parcel of his uniform with its treasured red stripes of
a corporal; and having addressed it for the post, paid the camel-driver to send it off for
him from Touggourt to Sidi-bel-Abbés. The unpardonable sin of a deserting Legionnaire is to
rob France of the uniform lent him for his soldiering. But returning her property to the Republic,
Max sent no letter of regret or apology. He was a deserter, and to excuse himself for deserting
would be an insult to the Legion. Nobody except DeLisle could possibly understand, and Max
did not mean to offer explanations, even to his colonel. If in his heart Sanda's father could
ever secretly pardon a deserter, it must be of his own accord, not because of what that deserter
had to say on his own behalf.

Out of the little caravan Max had to discharge, Stanton kept the mehari with the bassourah
which Sanda had ridden during the journey from Ben Râana's douar. It was, he said, laughing,
a present direct from Providence to his bride, since not without delay could he have provided
her with anything so comfortable for travelling. The finely bred camel and many other animals
of the escort might fail or die en route, but there were places on the way where others could
be got, as well as men to replenish vacancies made by deaths. Stanton was too old an explorer
not to have calculated each step of the way, as far as any white man's story or black man's
rumour described it. And he talked stoically of the depletion of his ranks. It was only his
own failure or death which appeared to be for him incredible.

Stanton rode all day at the head of the caravan, with Sanda, on her mehari, looking down at
him, "like the Blessed Damozel" as he had said, between her curtains. Max, on a strong pony
which Stanton had bought as an "understudy" for his own horse, kept far in the rear. The desert
had been beautiful for him yesterday. It was hideous to-day. He thought it must always be hideous
after this. They saw the new moon for the first time that afternoon. Sanda, lost in a dream
of happiness, pointed it out to Stanton, but he was vexed because they caught a glimpse of
it over the left shoulder. It was a bad sign, he said, and Sanda laughed at him for being superstitious.
As if anything could be a bad sign for them on that day!

"Little White Moon," Ourïeda and the other Arab women had called her at Djazerta. Stanton said
it was just the name for her, when she told him. The girl was perfectly happy now that Max
was rescued. She had no regrets, no cares; for, though she dearly loved her father, it would
have been long before she saw him again even if she had gone to Sidi-bel-Abbés; and she knew
he had hated the necessity for leaving her there without him. She believed it would be a great
relief to such a keen soldier as he was not to be burdened with a girl. Often she felt it had
been wrong and selfish of her to run away from the aunts and throw herself upon his mercy.
Their few weeks together, learning to know and love each other, had been delicious, but the
future might have been difficult if she had stayed.

Surely her father would be glad to have her married to his friend, and, even if there were
dangers to be feared in the unknown desert, why, Colonel DeLisle was a soldier, and she was
a soldier's daughter.

She wrote a letter to her father and gave it to the priest who had married her. Some day it
must reach its destination, and there were things in it which would make Colonel DeLisle happy.
Sanda believed there would be tender romance for him, as for her, in the thought of the marriage
near Touggourt, where his love had come to him from half across the world.

Not a rap did the girl care for the hardships in front of her. She laughed and thought it a
great adventure that she had no "trousseau," but only the few clothes which were wearable after
her long visit to Djazerta. And if they were never to find the Lost Oasis, or if they themselves
were to be lost, she would go forth with the same untroubled heart.

The crescent moon had dropped behind the horizon, like a bracelet in the sea, before they came
in sight of the oasis where they were to spend the wedding night; but the sky glittered with
encrusting stars that spread a silver background for the tall, dark palms. As the caravan descended
into a wide valley between dunes, Max heard Stanton's voice shouting to him. He rode forward
to the side of the "Chief," as the explorer was called by his men.

"Like a good chap, gallop ahead with my fellows and see that our tent is set up in the best
place," said Stanton in his deep, pleasant voice. "I should like Sanda to find it all ready
when she gets there. Have it put where my wife would think it prettiest; you'll know the right
place; place you'd choose yourself if it was your honeymoon!"

There was no conscious malice in the words, but they cut like a lash in a raw wound. Max had
the impulse to strike his horse with the whip, but he was ashamed of it and stroked the animal's
neck instead, as with a word he urged it on.

"I must watch myself if this isn't to turn me into a beast," he thought. "It shan't, or I'll
be worse than useless to her. She shan't fall between two brutes."

Stanton had already selected the men who were to pitch his bridal tent, and Max rode ahead
with them and their loaded camels. He chose a spot between a miniature palm grove separated
from the main oasis and the artesian well, far enough from the gushing water for its bubbling
to be heard through canvas walls soothingly, like the music of a fountain.

Fortunately for the comfort of the unprepared-for bride, Stanton was a man who "did himself
well" when he could, though he had always been ready to face hardship if necessary. He had
not considered it necessary to stint himself when starting on this expedition, although, later
on, he would be quite ready to throw luxuries away as encumbrances. There were cushions and
thick rugs and fine linen and soft blankets. There was also some folding furniture; and one
object which revealed itself among the rugs at first surprised, then unpleasantly enlightened,
Max. It was a rather large mirror with a gilded French frame, such as Arab women admire. For
himself, Stanton would have had a shaving-glass a foot square, and the gaudy ornament made
Max's blood boil. Stanton had certainly brought it for a woman: Ahmara. Before the quarrel,
then, he had intended to take her with him! It was only by a chance that he had gathered a
fair white lily instead of a desert poppy.

Max would have liked to break the mirror, but, instead, he saw that it was safely hung on one
of the tent-hooks and supported by a brightly painted Moorish chest.

As he stepped out of the tent when all was finished and ready for the bride--even to a vase
of orange blossoms brought by the priest from Touggourt--the caravan, which had been moving
slowly at the last, had not yet arrived. Two elderly Arabs hovered near, however, the men who
lived in the oasis to guard the well and the date palms in season. As Max spoke to them in
his laboured Arabic he saw in the distance the form of a woman. Standing as she did, in the
open ground with no trees between her and the far silver horizon, she was a noble and commanding
figure, slender and tall like a daughter of the palms. She was for Max no more than a graceful
silhouette, majestically poised, for he could not see her face, or even be sure that the effect
of crown and plumes on her high-held head was not a trick of shadow. Indeed it seemed probable
that it was a mere illusion, for crowns and waving plumes were worn by desert dancers, and
it did not appear likely that a wife or daughter of the well-guardians should be so adorned.

As he exchanged elaborate compliments with the Arabs the woman's figure vanished and he thought
no more of it, for Sanda and Stanton were arriving. Max turned away his eyes as Stanton took
the bride out of her bassourah and half carried her toward their tent without waiting to thank
the man who had placed it. Max busied himself feverishly in superintending the arrangements
of the camp, which Stanton had asked him as his "lieutenant" to undertake that night.

The kneeling camels were tethered in long lines. No zareba would be raised, for there would
be many a long march before the caravan reached perilous country. Here a fire could be built,
for there was no danger in showing smoke and raising a rose-red glow against the silver. The
unveiled women, whom Stanton had diplomatically allowed to accompany their husbands, began
to cook supper for the men; couscous and coffee and thin, ash-baked bread. It was a long time
since Stanton had taken Sanda to the tent under the little grove of palms, but he had given
no orders yet for food to be prepared. Max thought it unlikely that he should be asked to eat
with them, but if he were invited he intended to refuse. In spite of himself, he could not
help glancing now and then toward the tent. The door-flaps had not been let down, but there
was no light inside. Turning involuntarily that way, as iron turns to a magnet, at last he
saw a man and woman come out of the tent. But the woman was not Sanda!

Max realized this with a shock. He saw both figures for an instant painted in blue-black against
the light, khaki-coloured canvas. The woman was very tall, as tall as Stanton, and on her head
was something high, like a crown set with plumes. Stanton led her away, walking quickly. They
went toward the low, black tents of the guardians of the oasis.

Max stood still with a curious sensation of being dazed after a stunning blow half forgotten.
How long he remained without moving he could not have told. His eyes had not followed the two
figures very far. They returned to the tent and focussed there in anguish. Some scene there
must have been between those three. He was not surprised when, after a short time--or a long
time, he did not know which--Sanda appeared. He wondered if his soul had called her, and she
was coming in answer to the call.

She hesitated at first, as if not sure where to go. Then catching sight of him at a distance,
with the light of the fire ruddy on his face, she began to run. Almost instantly, however,
she stopped, paused for a second or two, and it seemed to Max that she swayed a little as if
she might fall. He started toward her with great strides; but he had not taken more than three
or four when he saw that she was walking slowly but steadily straight toward him. He felt then,
with a mysterious but complete certainty, that she wished him to go no farther, but to wait.
He stopped, and in a moment she was by his side. She did not speak, but stood with her head
drooping. Max could not see her face. After the first eagerly questioning glance he turned
his eyes away. She did not wish him to look at her or break the silence. He held his tongue,
but he was afraid she might hear the pounding of his heart and his breath coming and going.
If she did she would guess that he knew something which, perhaps, she did not mean to let him
know. At last, however, he could bear the strain no longer; besides, Stanton might come back.
If there were anything he could do for her, if she wanted him to take her away--God! how his
blood sang at the thought of it!--there was no more time to waste.

His tone sounded flat and ineffectual in his own ears as he spoke. The effort to keep it down
to calmness made it almost absurd, as it would have been to mention the weather in that tingling
instant. He asked simply: "Is there something--something I can do?"

"No," she said. "Nothing, thank you. Nothing any one can do."

The voice was not like the voice of Sanda, which Max had once compared in his mind to the ripple
of a brook steeped in sunshine. It was thin and weak, almost like the voice of a little, broken
old woman. But, praise heaven, she was young, so very young that she would live this down,
and, some day, almost forget. If she would let him take her back to Sidi-bel-Abbés after all!
This marriage by a priest without sanction of the law need not stand. She was not a wife yet,
but a girl, oh! thank God for that! It was not too late. If only he could say these things
to her. But it seemed that he must stand like a block of wood and wait for her to point the way.

"Are you--perhaps you're homesick?" he dared to give her a cue.

"Homesick?" Her voice broke and, instead of being like an old woman's, it was like a little
child's. "Yes, that's it, I'm homesick! And--and I think I'm not very well. I want my father,
I want him so much!"

The heart of the man who was not her father yearned toward the girl.

"Shall I take you back?" he panted. "We're not far past Touggourt. To-morrow it will be too
late, but now--now----"

"Now it's already too late. Oh, Soldier! to have yesterday again!"

He did not ask her what she meant. He did not need to ask.

"It can be yesterday for you," he urged.

"No. Yesterday I was Sanda DeLisle. To-day I'm Sanda Stanton. Nothing can change that."

"If you're unhappy your father can change it. You see, it's only the church that----"

"Only the church!"

"Forgive me. But the law would say----"

