Perhaps, if these boys had known that they were the first white boys to use the Indians' playgrounds,
the realization might have added zest to the make-believe of their games; but probably boys
between seven and fourteen, when they play at all, play with their fancies strained, and very
likely these little boys, keeping their stick-horse livery-stable in a wild-grape arbour in
the thicket, needed no verisimilitude. The long straight hickory switches--which served as
horses--were arranged with their butts on a rotting log, whereon some grass was spread for
their feed. Their string bridles hung loosely over the log. The horsemen swinging in the vines
above, or in the elm tree near by, were preparing a raid on the stables of other boys, either
in the native lumber town a rifle-shot away or in distant parts of the woods. When the youngsters
climbed down, they straddled their hickory steeds and galloped friskily away to the creek and
drank; this was part of the rites, for tradition in the town of their elders said that whoever
drank of Sycamore Creek water immediately turned horse thief. Having drunk their fill at the
ford, they waded it and left the stumpy road, plunging into the underbrush, snorting and puffing
and giggling and fussing and complaining--the big ones at the little ones and the little ones
at the big ones--after the manner of mankind.

When they had gone perhaps a half-mile from the ford, one of the little boys, feeling the rag
on his sore heel slipping and letting the rough woods grass scratch his raw flesh, stopped
to tie up the rag. He was far in the rear of the pack when he stopped, and the boys, not heeding
his blat, rushed on and left him at the edge of a thicket near a deep-rutted road. His cry
became a whimper and his whimper a sniffle as he worked with the rag; but the little fingers
were clumsy, and a heel is a hard place to cover, and the sun was hot on his back; so he took
the rag in one hand and his bridle in the other, and limped on his stick horse into the thick
shade of a lone oak tree that stood beside the wide dusty road. His sore did not bother him,
and he sat with his back against the tree for a while, flipping the rag and making figures
in the dust with the pronged tail of his horse. Then his hands were still, and as he ran from
tune to tune with improvised interludes, he droned a song of his prowess. Sometimes he sang
words and sometimes he sang thoughts. He sank farther and farther down and looked up into the
tree and ceased his song, chirping instead a stuttering falsetto trill, not unlike a cricket's,
holding his breath as long as he could to draw it out to its finest strand; and thus with his
head on his arm and his arm on the tree root, he fell asleep.

The noon sun was on his legs when he awoke, and a strange dog was sniffing at him. As he started
up, he heard the clatter of a horse's feet in the road, and saw an Indian woman trotting toward
him on a pony. In an instant he was a-wing with terror, scooting toward the thick of the woods.
He screamed as he ran, for his head was full of Indian stories, and he knew that the only use
Indians had for little boys was to steal them and adopt them into the tribe. He heard the brush
crackling behind him, and he knew that the woman had turned off the road to follow him. A hundred
yards is a long way for a terror-stricken little boy to run through tangled underbrush, and
when he had come to the high bank of the stream, he slipped down among the tree roots and tried
to hide. His little heart beat so fast that he could not keep from panting, and the sound of
breaking brush came nearer and then stopped, and in a moment he looked up and saw the squaw
leaning over the bank, holding to the tree above him. She smiled kindly at him and said:--

"Come on, boy--I won't hurt you. I as scared of you as you are of me."

She bent over and took him by the arm and lifted him to her. She got on her pony and put him
on before her and soothed his fright, as they rode slowly through the wood to the road, where
they came to a great band of Indians, all riding ponies.

It seemed to the boy that he had never imagined there were so many people in the whole world;
there was some parley among them, and the band set out on the road again, with the squaw in
advance. They were but a few yards from the forks of the road, and as they came to it she said:--

"Boy--which way to town?"

He pointed the way and she turned into it, and the band followed. They crossed the ford, climbed
the steep red clay bank of the creek, and filed up the hill into the unpainted group of cabins
and shanties cluttered around a well that men, in 1857, knew as Sycamore Ridge. The Indians
filled the dusty area between the two rows of gray houses on either side of the street, and
the town flocked from its ten front doors before half the train had arrived. The last door
of them all to open was in a slab house, nearly half a mile from the street. A washing fluttered
on the clothes-line, and the woman who came out of the door carried a round-bottomed hickory-bark
basket, such as might hold clothes-pins. Seeing the invasion, she hurried across the prairie,
toward the town. She was a tall thin woman, not yet thirty, brown and tanned, with a strong
masculine face, and as she came nearer one could see that she had a square firm jaw, and great
kind gray eyes that lighted her countenance from a serene soul. Her sleeves rolled far above
her elbows revealed arms used to rough hard work, and her hands were red from the wash-tub.
As she came into the street, she saw the little boy sitting on the horse in front of the squaw.
Walking to them quickly, and lifting her arms, as she neared the squaw's pony, the white woman
said:--

"Why, Johnnie Barclay, where have you been?"

The boy climbed from the pony, and the two women smiled at each other, but exchanged no words.
And as his feet touched the ground, he became conscious of the rag in his hand, of his bleeding
heel, of his cramped legs being "asleep"--all in one instant, and went limping and whining
toward home with his mother, while the Indians traded in the store and tried to steal from
the other houses, and in a score of peaceful ways diverted the town's attention from the departing
figures down the path.

That was the first adventure that impressed itself upon the memory of John Barclay. All his
life he remembered the covered wagon in which the Barclays crossed the Mississippi; but it
is only a curious memory of seeing the posts of the bed, lying flat beside him in the wagon,
and of fingering the palm leaves cut in the wood. He was four years old then, and as a man
he remembered only as a tale that is told the fight at Westport Landing, where his father was
killed for preaching an abolition sermon from the wagon tongue. The man remembered nothing
of the long ride that the child and the mother took with the father's body to Lawrence, where
they buried it in a free-state cemetery. But he always remembered something of their westward
ride, after the funeral of his father. The boy carried a child's memory of the prairie--probably
his first sight of the prairie, with the vacant horizon circling around and around him, and
the monotonous rattle of the wagon on the level prairie road, for hours keeping the same rhythm
and fitting the same tune. Then there was a mottled memory of the woods--woods with sunshine
in them, and of a prairie flooded with sunshine on which he played, now picking flowers, now
playing house under the limestone ledges, now, after a rain, following little rivers down rocky
draws, and finding sunfish and silversides in the deeper pools. But always his memory was of
the sunshine, and the open sky, or the deep wide woods all unexplored, save by himself.

The great road that widened to make the prairie street, and wormed over the hill into the sunset,
always seemed dusty to the boy, and although in after years he followed that road, over the
hills and far away, when it was rutty and full of clods, as a child he recalled it only as
a great bed of dust, wherein he and other boys played, now battling with handfuls of dust,
and now running races on some level stretch of it, and now standing beside the road while a
passing movers' wagon delayed their play. The movers' wagon was never absent from the boy's
picture of that time and place. Either the canvas-covered wagon was coming from the ford of
Sycamore Creek, or disappearing over the hill beyond the town, or was passing in front of the
boys as they stopped their play. Being a boy, he could not know, nor would he care if he did
know, that he was seeing one of God's miracles--the migration of a people, blind but instinctive
as that of birds or buffalo, from old pastures into new ones. All over the plains in those
days, on a hundred roads like that which ran through Sycamore Ridge, men and women were moving
from east to west, and, as often has happened since the beginning of time, when men have migrated,
a great ethical principle was stirring in them. The pioneers do not go to the wilderness always
in lust of land, but sometimes they go to satisfy their souls. The spirit of God moves in the
hearts of men as it moves on the face of the waters.

Something of this moving spirit was in John Barclay's mother. For often she paused at her work,
looking up from her wash-tub toward the highway, when a prairie schooner sailed by, and lifting
her face skyward for an instant, as her lips moved in silence. As a man the boy knew she was
thinking of her long journey, of the tragedy that came of it, and praying for those who passed
into the West. Then she would bend to her work again; and the washerwoman's child who took
the clothes she washed in his little wagon with the cottonwood log wheels, across the commons
into the town, was not made to feel an inferior place in the social system until he was in
his early teens. For all the Sycamore Ridge women worked hard in those days. But there were
Sundays when the boy and his mother walked over the wide prairies together, and she told him
stories of Haverhill--of the wonderful people who lived there, of the great college, of the
beautiful women and wise men, and best of all of his father, who was a student in the college,
and they dreamed together--mother and child--about how he would board at Uncle Union's and
work in the store for Uncle Abner--when the boy went back to Haverhill to school when he grew up.

On these excursions the mother sometimes tried to interest him in Mr. Beecher's sermons which
she read to him, but his eyes followed the bees and the birds and the butterflies and the shadows
trailing across the hillside; so the seed fell on stony ground. One fine fall day they went
up the ridge far above the town where the court-house stands now, and there under a lone elm
tree just above a limestone ledge, they spread their lunch, and the mother sat on the hillside,
almost hidden by the rippling prairie grass, reading the first number of the Atlantic Monthly,
while the boy cleared out a spring that bubbled from beneath a rock in the shade, and after
running for a few feet sank under a great stone and did not appear again. As the mother read,
the afternoon waned, and when she looked up, she was astonished to see John standing beside
the rock, waist deep in a hole, trying to back down into it. His face was covered with dirt,
and his clothes were wet from the falling water of the spring that was flowing into the hole
he had opened. In a jiffy she pulled him out, and looking into the hole, saw by the failing
sunlight which shone directly into the place that the child had uncovered the opening of a
cave. But they did not explore it, for the mother was afraid, and the two came down the hill,
the child's head full of visions of a pirate's treasure, and the mother's full of the whims
of the Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.

The next day school began in Sycamore Ridge,--for the school and the church came with the newspaper,
Freedom's Banner,--and a new world opened to the boy, and he forgot the cave, and became interested
in Webster's blue-backed speller. And thus another grown-up person, "Miss Lucy," came into
his world. For with children, men and women generically are of another order of beings. But
Miss Lucy, being John Barclay's teacher, grew into his daily life on an equality with his dog
and the Hendricks boys, and took a place somewhat lower than his mother in his list of saints.
For Miss Lucy came from Sangamon County, Illinois, and her father had fought the Indians, and
she told the school as many strange and wonderful things about Illinois as John had learned
from his mother about Haverhill. But his allegiance to the teacher was only lip service. For
at night when he sat digging the gravel and dirt from the holes in the heels of his copper-toed
boots, that he might wad them with paper to be ready for his skates on the morrow, or when
he sat by the wide fireplace oiling the runners with the steel curly-cues curving over the
toes, or filing a groove in the blades, the boy's greatest joy was with his mother. Sometimes
as she ironed she told him stories of his father, or when the child was sick and nervous, as
a special favour, on his promise to take the medicine and not ask for a drink, she would bring
her guitar from under the bed and tune it up and play with a curious little mouse-like touch.
And on rare occasions she would sing to her own shy maidenly accompaniment, her voice rising
scarcely higher than the wind in the sycamore at the spring outside. The boy remembered only
one line of an old song she sometimes tried to sing: "Sleeping, I dream, love, dream, love,
of thee," but what the rest of it was, and what it was all about, he never knew; for when she
got that far, she always stopped and came to the bed and lay beside him, and they both cried,
though as a child he did not know why.

So the winter of 1857 wore away at Sycamore Ridge, and with the coming of the spring of '58,
when the town was formally incorporated, even into the boy world there came the murmurs of
strife and alarms. The games the boys played were war games. They had battles in the woods,
between the free-state and the pro-slavery men, and once--twice--three times there marched
by on the road real soldiers, and it was no unusual thing to see a dragoon dismount at the
town well and water his horse. The big boys in school affected spurs, and Miss Lucy brought
to school with her one morning a long bundle, which, when it was unwrapped, disclosed the sword
of her father, Captain Barnes, presented to him by his admiring soldiers at the close of the
"Black Hawk War." John traded for a tin fife and learned to play "Jaybird" upon it, though
he preferred the jew's-harp, and had a more varied repertory with it. Was it an era of music,
or is childhood the period of music? Perhaps this land of ours was younger than it is now and
sang more lustily, if not with great precision; for to the man who harks back over the years,
those were days of song. All the world seemed singing--men in their stores and shops, women
at their work, and children in their schools. And a freckled, barefooted little boy with sunburned
curly hair, in home-made clothes, and with brown bare legs showing through the rips in his
trousers, used to sit alone in the woods breathing his soul into a mouth-organ--a priceless
treasure for which he had traded two raccoons, an owl, and a prairie dog. But he mastered the
mouth-organ,--it was called a French harp in those days,--and before he had put on his first
collar, Watts McHurdie had taught the boy to play the accordion. The great heavy bellows was
half as large as he was, but the little chap would sit in McHurdie's harness shop of a summer
afternoon and swing the instrument up and down as the melody swelled or died, and sway his
body with the time and the tune, as Watts McHurdie, who owned the accordion, swayed and gyrated
when he played. Mrs. Barclay, hearing her son, smiled and shook her head and knew him for a
Thatcher; "No Barclay," she said, "ever could carry a tune." So the mother brought out from
the bottom of the trunk her yellow-covered book, "Winner's Instructor on the Guitar," and taught
the child what she could of notes. Thus music found its way out of the boy's soul.

One day in the summer of 1860, as he and his fellows were filing down the crooked dusty path
that led from the swimming hole through the dry woods to the main road, they came upon a group
of horsemen scanning the dry ford of the Sycamore. That was the first time that John Barclay
met the famous Captain Lee. He was a great hulk of a man who, John thought, looked like a pirate.
The boys led the men and their horses up the dry limestone bed of the stream to the swimming
hole--a deep pool in the creek. The coming of the soldiers made a stir in the town. For they
were not "regulars"; they were known as the Red Legs, but called themselves "The Army of the
Border." Under Captain J. Lord Lee--whose life afterwards touched Barclay's sometimes--"The
Army of the Border," being about forty in number, came to Sycamore Ridge that night, and greatly
to the scandal of the decent village, there appeared with the men two women in short skirts
and red leggins, who were introduced at Schnitzler's saloon as Happy Hally and Lady Lee. "The
Army of the Border," under J. Lord and Lady Lee,--as they were known,--proceeded to get bawling
drunk, whereupon they introduced to the town the song which for the moment was the national
hymn of Kansas:--

    "Am I a soldier of the boss,
      A follower of Jim Lane?
    Then should I fear to steal a hoss,
      Or blush to ride the same."

As the night deepened and Henry Schnitzler's supply of liquor seemed exhaustless, the Army
of the Border went from song to war and wandered about banging doors and demanding to know
if any white-livered Missourian in the town was man enough to come out and fight. At half-past
one the Army of the Border had either gone back to camp, or propped itself up against the sides
of the buildings in peaceful sleep, when the screech of the brakes on the wheels of the stage
was heard half a mile away as it lumbered down the steep bank of the Sycamore, and then the
town woke up. As the stage rolled down Main Street, the male portion of Sycamore Ridge lined
up before the Thayer House to see who would get out and to learn the news from the gathering
storm in the world outside. As the crowd stood there, and while the driver was climbing from
his box, little John Barclay, white-faced, clad in his night drawers, came flying into the
crowd from behind a building.

