It is wise to turn circumstances to good account. When they had done so, he placed the faggot
into the hands of each of them in succession, and ordered them to break it in pieces. They
tried with all their strength, and were not able to do it.

The Boy Hunting Locusts

A BOY was hunting for locusts. He had caught a goodly number, when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking
him for a locust, reached out his hand to take him. The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
"If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and all your locusts too!"

The Kingdom of the Lion

THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king. He was neither wrathful, cruel,
nor tyrannical, but just and gentle as a king could be. During his reign he made a royal proclamation
for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts, and drew up conditions for a universal
league, in which the Wolf and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag, the
Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and amity. The Hare said, "Oh, how
I have longed to see this day, in which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the
side of the strong." And after the Hare said this, he ran for his life.

The Fisherman Piping

A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the seashore. When he saw them
leaping about in the net upon the rock he said: "O you most perverse creatures, when I piped
you would not dance, but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."

Hercules and the Wagoner

A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the wheels sank down deep into a rut.
The rustic driver, stupefied and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him. Hercules, it is said, appeared and thus addressed
him: "Put your shoulders to the wheels, my man. Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray
to me for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or depend upon it you will
henceforth pray in vain."

Self-help is the best help.

The Ants and the Grasshopper

THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected in the summertime. They then
said in derision: "If you were foolish enough to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless
to bed in the winter."

The Traveler and His Dog

A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the door stretching himself.
He asked him sharply: "Why do you stand there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come
with me instantly." The Dog, wagging his tail, replied: "O, master! I am quite ready; it is
you for whom I am waiting."

The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.

The Mole and His Mother

A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother: "I am sure than I can see, Mother!"
In the desire to prove to him his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of frankincense,
and asked, "What is it?" The young Mole said, "It is a pebble." His Mother exclaimed: "My son,
I am afraid that you are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell."

Slow but steady wins the race.

The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble

THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful. When their strife
was at its height, a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a
boastful tone: "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings."

The Farmer and the Stork

A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a number of Cranes, which came
to pick up his seed.

The Farmer and the Snake

ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold. He had compassion on it, and
taking it up, placed it in his bosom. The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming
its natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal wound. "Oh," cried the
Farmer with his last breath, "I am rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."

The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.

No arguments will give courage to the coward.

Fair weather friends are not worth much.

The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion

THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for their mutual protection,
went out into the forest to hunt. They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion. The Fox,
seeing imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of
the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox.

Pleasure bought with pains, hurts. Concealing his sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged
in a lavish praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and encouraging him
to descend. Steadying himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the well
and made off as fast as he could.

Look before you leap. "He gave me this advice," his companion replied. We bear all the labor,
and we, not you, ought to cry out."

Those who suffer most cry out the least.

The Raven and the Swan

A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same beautiful plumage.

The Goat and the Goatherd

A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock. He whistled and sounded his
horn in vain; the straggler paid no attention to the summons. At last the Goatherd threw a
stone, and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master. The Goat replied, "Why,
you silly fellow, the horn will speak though I be silent."

Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.

The Miser

A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he buried in a hole in the ground
by the side of an old wall and went to look at daily. One of his workmen observed his frequent
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements. He soon discovered the secret of the
hidden treasure, and digging down, came to the lump of gold, and stole it. The Miser, on his
next visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to make loud lamentations.
A neighbor, seeing him overcome with grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve
so; but go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the gold is still lying
there. It will do you quite the same service; for when the gold was there, you had it not,
as you did not make the slightest use of it."

The Sick Lion

A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself with food by force, resolved
to do so by artifice. He returned to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
care that his sickness should be publicly known. The beasts expressed their sorrow, and came
one by one to his den, where the Lion devoured them. After many of the beasts had thus disappeared,
the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself to the Lion, stood on the outside of the
cave, at a respectful distance, and asked him how he was. "I am very middling," replied the
Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter within to talk with me." "No, thank you," said
the Fox. "I notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but I see no trace
of any returning."

He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others. The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without
bringing him home some tidbit to eat. Why could I not have been contented to labor with my
companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"

The value is in the worth, not in the number. Suppose this to be Rhodes, and leap for us."

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat

A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep. On one occasion when the shepherd
laid hold of him, he grunted and squeaked and resisted violently. The Sheep and the Goat complained
of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles us, and we do not cry out." To this the
Pig replied, "Your handling and mine are very different things. He catches you only for your
wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very life." He expressed his willingness
to accept the Lion as the suitor of his daughter on one condition: that he should allow him
to extract his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully afraid of both.
The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal. But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned
to repeat his request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his club, and drove
him away into the forest. Grieving over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.

No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused the injury.

The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing

ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in order to secure food more easily.
Encased in the skin of a sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his costume.
In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance
made thoroughly secure. But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night to obtain
meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.

Harm seek, harm find.

The Ass and the Mule

A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and a Mule, both well laden. The
Ass, as long as he traveled along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began
to ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear. He entreated
his companion to relieve him of a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the
Mule paid no attention to the request. The Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his
burden. Not knowing what else to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule
the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of
the Ass, after he had skinned him. The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:
"I am treated according to my deserts. If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little
in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well." But as
soon as they realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the top of the water,
dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began squatting on it in contempt.

The Salt Merchant and His Ass

A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt. His road home lay across a stream into
which his Ass, making a false step, fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
lighter, as the water melted the sack. The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers
with a larger quantity of salt than before. When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell
down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much
diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired. The Peddler saw through
his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges
instead of salt. The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the
stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his
trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox

A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep in his den. A Mouse ran over
his mane and ears and woke him from his slumbers. He rose up and shook himself in great wrath,
and searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse. A Fox seeing him said: "A fine Lion
you are, to be frightened of a Mouse." "'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent
his familiarity and ill-breeding."

Little liberties are great offenses.

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats

A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide, found some Wild Goats mingled
among them, and shut them up together with his own for the night. The next day it snowed very
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding places, but was obliged to
keep them in the fold. He gave his own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed
the strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay with him and of making them
his own. When the thaw set in, he led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away
as fast as they could to the mountains. The Goatherd scolded them for their ingratitude in
leaving him, when during the storm he had taken more care of them than of his own herd. One
of them, turning about, said to him: "That is the very reason why we are so cautious; for if
you yesterday treated us better than the Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that
if others came after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."

Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones. Thinking it a mark of distinction,
the Dog grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the marketplace. One day an old
hound said to him: "Why do you make such an exhibition of yourself?

Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.

The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail

A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail. Thereafter, feeling his life
a burden from the shame and ridicule to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the
other Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making up for his own deprivation.
He assembled a good many Foxes and publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that
they would not only look much better without them, but that they would get rid of the weight
of the brush, which was a very great inconvenience. One of them interrupting him said, "If
you had not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus counsel us."

The Boy and the Nettles

A BOY was stung by a Nettle. He ran home and told his Mother, saying, "Although it hurts me
very much, I only touched it gently." "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.

Whatever you do, do with all your might.

The Man and His Two Sweethearts

A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two women at the same time. One
of them was young, and the other well advanced in years. The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer visited her, to pull out
some portion of his black hairs. The younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife
of an old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she could find. Thus it came
to pass that between them both he very soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.

Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.

The Astronomer

AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars. One evening, as he wandered through
the suburbs with his whole attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep well.
While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and cried loudly for help, a neighbor
ran to the well, and learning what had happened said: "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving
to pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on earth?"

The Old Woman and the Physician

AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a Physician to heal them, and made
this bargain with him in the presence of witnesses: that if he should cure her blindness, he
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity remained, she should give him
nothing. This agreement being made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her property little by little. And
when he had got all she had, he healed her and demanded the promised payment. The Old Woman,
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her house, would give him nothing.
The Physician insisted on his claim, and, as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge.
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued: "This man here speaks the truth in what he
says; for I did promise to give him a sum of money if I should recover my sight: but if I continued
blind, I was to give him nothing. Now he declares that I am healed. I on the contrary affirm
that I am still blind; for when I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels
and valuable goods: but now, though he swears I am cured of my blindness, I am not able to
see a single thing in it."

The Charger and the Miller

A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a mill instead of going out
to battle. But when he was compelled to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his
change of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah! Miller, I had indeed to
go campaigning before, but I was barbed from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom
me; and now I cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the battle." "Forbear,"
said the Miller to him, "harping on what was of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to
sustain the ups and downs of fortune."

The Belly and the Members

THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said, "Why should we be perpetually
engaged in administering to your wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?" The Members carried out their resolve and refused
their assistance to the Belly. The whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly. The Wolf, having no cause of fear,
at his leisure lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.

There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.

The Kid and the Wolf

A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a Wolf passing by and immediately
began to taunt and revile him. The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee: yet it is
not thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."

Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the strong.

The Heifer and the Ox

A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and tormented him with reflections on
his unhappy fate in being compelled to labor. The Ox saw what was being done, and said with
a smile to the Heifer: "For this you were allowed to live in idleness, because you were presently
to be sacrificed."

The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice

A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling with men, built herself a
nest in the wall of a Court of Justice and there hatched seven young birds. A Serpent gliding
past the nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged nestlings. The Swallow,
finding her nest empty, lamented greatly and exclaimed: "Woe to me a stranger! that in this
place where all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."

The Thief and His Mother

A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took it home to his Mother. She
not only abstained from beating him, but encouraged him. He next time stole a cloak and brought
it to her, and she again commended him. The Youth, advanced to adulthood, proceeded to steal
things of still greater value. At last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands
bound behind him, was led away to the place of public execution. His Mother followed in the
crowd and violently beat her breast in sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say
something to my Mother in her ear." She came close to him, and he quickly seized her ear with
his teeth and bit it off. The Mother upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied,
"Ah! if you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that lesson-book, I should
not have come to this, nor have been thus led to a disgraceful death."

The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk

A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed an intimate acquaintance
with a Frog, who lived for the most part in the water. After this, he gradually led him towards
the pool in which he lived, until reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging
the Mouse with him. The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam croaking about, as if he
had done a good deed.

The Man Bitten by a Dog

A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone who might heal him. If I
should do so, it would be as if I should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."

Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of injuring you.

The Wolf and the Sheep

A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in his lair. Being in want of
food, he called to a Sheep who was passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream
flowing close beside him.

The Aethiop

THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of his skin arose from dirt contracted
through the neglect of his former masters. On bringing him home he resorted to every means
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings. The servant caught a severe cold,
but he never changed his color or complexion.

What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.

The Fisherman and His Nets

A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast and captured a great haul
of fish. He managed by a skillful handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw
them to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from falling back through the
meshes of the net into the sea.

Abstain and enjoy.

The Fox and the Crow

A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it in her beak.

The Two Dogs

A MAN had two dogs: a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports, and a Housedog, taught to
watch the house. When he returned home after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog
a large share of his spoil. The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this, reproached his companion,
saying, "It is very hard to have all this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase,
luxuriate on the fruits of my exertions." The Housedog replied, "Do not blame me, my friend,
but find fault with the master, who has not taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence
on the labor of others."

Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.

Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.

The Widow and the Sheep

A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep. At shearing time, wishing to take his fleece and
to avoid expense, she sheared him herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the
fleece she sheared the flesh. The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why do you hurt me so,
Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher,
who will kill me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is the shearer, who
will shear and not hurt me."

The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.

The Shepherd and the Sea

A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the Sea very calm and smooth,
and longed to make a voyage with a view to commerce. He sold all his flock, invested it in
a cargo of dates, and set sail. But a very great tempest came on, and the ship being in danger
of sinking, he threw all his merchandise overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the
empty ship. Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the unruffled calm of the
Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."

The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion

AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion, desperate from hunger, approached
the spot.

The Mice and the Weasels

THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other, in which much blood was shed.
The Weasels were always the victors. The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent defeats
was that they had no leaders set apart from the general army to command them, and that they
were exposed to dangers from lack of discipline. They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and counsel, as well as those most noted
for their courage in the fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions. When all this was done, and the army disciplined,
and the herald Mouse had duly proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen generals
bound their heads with straws, that they might be more conspicuous to all their troops. Scarcely
had the battle begun, when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast as
they could to their holes. The generals, not being able to get in on account of the ornaments
on their heads, were all captured and eaten by the Weasels.

The more honor the more danger.

The Rivers and the Sea

THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why is it that when we flow into
your tides so potable and sweet, you work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit
to drink?" The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him, said, "Pray cease
to flow into me, and then you will not be made briny."

The Master and His Dogs

A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of all killed his sheep, and
then his goats, for the maintenance of his household. The storm still continuing, he was obliged
to slaughter his yoke oxen for food. On seeing this, his Dogs took counsel together, and said,
"It is time for us to be off, for if the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain,
how can we expect him to spare us?"

He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family.

The Wolf and the Shepherds

A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch of mutton for their dinner.
Approaching them, he said, "What a clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"

The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat

THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other. When the battle was at its height,
a Sprat lifted its head out of the waves and said that he would reconcile their differences
if they would accept him as an umpire. One of the Dolphins replied, "We would far rather be
destroyed in our battle with each other than admit any interference from you in our affairs."

The Two Travelers and the Axe

TWO MEN were journeying together. One of them picked up an axe that lay upon the path, and
said, "I have found an axe." "Nay, my friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We'
have found an axe." They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the axe pursuing them,
and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are undone." "Nay," replied the other, "keep to
your first mode of speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now. Say 'I,'
not 'We' are undone."

He who shares the danger ought to share the prize. The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly
brooked the insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such treatment from thee, a
disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a double death." I rather deserve to be praised for what
I have been, than to be blamed for what I am."

The Bee and Jupiter

A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to Olympus to present Jupiter some
honey fresh from her combs. Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
whatever she should ask. She therefore besought him, saying, "Give me, I pray thee, a sting,
that if any mortal shall approach to take my honey, I may kill him." Jupiter was much displeased,
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request because of his promise. He thus
answered the Bee: "You shall have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life.
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make, and then you will die from
the loss of it."

Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.

Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.

The Ass and His Masters

AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food and too much work made a petition
to Jupiter to be released from his present service and provided with another master. Jupiter,
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to be sold to a tile-maker.
Shortly afterwards, finding that he had heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field,
he petitioned for another change of master. Jupiter, telling him that it would be the last
time that he could grant his request, ordained that he be sold to a tanner. The Ass found that
he had fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation, said, groaning: "It would
have been better for me to have been either starved by the one, or to have been overworked
by the other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my present owner, who will even
after I am dead tan my hide, and make me useful to him."

Stoop to conquer.

The Hunter and the Woodman

A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion. He asked a man felling oaks
in the forest if he had seen any marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was. "I will,"
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself." The Hunter, turning very pale and chattering
with his teeth from fear, replied, "No, thank you. I did not ask that; it is his track only
I am in search of, not the Lion himself."

The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.

The Wild Boar and the Fox

A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the trunk. A Fox passing by asked
him why he thus sharpened his teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
or hound. He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do to have to sharpen my weapons
just at the time I ought to be using them."

The Lion in a Farmyard

A LION entered a farmyard. The Farmer, wishing to catch him, shut the gate. When the Lion found
that he could not escape, he flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen.
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened the gate and released the Lion.
On his departure the Farmer grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said, "On my word, you are rightly
served, for how could you for a moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your farmyard
when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only hear his roar at a distance?"

Mercury and the Sculptor

MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among mortals. For this purpose
he assumed the character of a man and visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked
at various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter and Juno. When the sum
at which they were valued was named, he pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor,
"You will certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the Messenger of the Gods,
and author of all your gain." The Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling
you that into the bargain."

The Swollen Fox

A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds in the hollow of an oak, crept
into the hole and made a hearty meal. When he finished, he was so full that he was not able
to get out, and began to groan and lament his fate. Another Fox passing by heard his cries,
and coming up, inquired the cause of his complaining. On learning what had happened, he said
to him, "Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become such as you were when
you crept in, and then you will easily get out."

The Fox and the Woodcutter

A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter felling an oak and begged him to
show him a safe hiding-place.

The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock

A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a friend unexpectedly came in.
The bird-trap was quite empty, as he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge,
which he had tamed for a decoy. The bird entreated earnestly for his life: "What would you
do without me when next you spread your nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you
the covey of answering birds?" The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined to pick out
a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb. But the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from
his perch: "If you kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn? Who will wake
you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time to visit the bird-trap in the morning?"
He replied, "What you say is true. You are a capital bird at telling the time of day. But my
friend and I must have our dinners."

Necessity knows no law.

The Monkey and the Fishermen

A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting their nets into a river, and
narrowly watched their proceedings. The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going
home to dinner left their nets upon the bank. The Monkey, who is the most imitative of animals,
descended from the treetop and endeavored to do as they had done. Having handled the net, he
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and drowned. With his last breath
he said to himself, "I am rightly served; for what business had I who had never handled a net
to try and catch fish?"

The Flea and the Wrestler

A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him, causing the man to call loudly
upon Hercules for help. When the Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said,
"O Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope for your assistance against
greater antagonists?"

The Doe and the Lion

A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging to a Lion. The Lion concealed
himself on seeing her approach, but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and
tore her to pieces. "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped from man, only to throw
myself into the mouth of a wild beast?"

In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into another.

The Farmer and the Fox

A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry yard, caught him at last,
and being determined to take an ample revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail,
and set it on fire. The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields of the Farmer who had
captured him. It was the time of the wheat harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year
and returned home grieving sorely.

The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury

A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel, of which the crew and passengers
were all drowned. He inveighed against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake
of one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent persons to perish. As
he was indulging in these reflections, he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants,
near whose nest he was standing. One of them climbed up and stung him, and he immediately trampled
them all to death with his foot. Mercury presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with
his wand, said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence,
who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants?"

The Mouse and the Bull

A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to capture him. But the Mouse
reached his hole in safety. Though the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before
he could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep outside the hole. The Mouse
peeped out, crept furtively up his flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole. The
Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed. At which the Mouse said, "The
great do not always prevail. There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to
do mischief."

The Lion and the Hare

A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep. He was just in the act of seizing her, when
a fine young Hart trotted by, and he left the Hare to follow him. The Hare, scared by the noise,
awoke and scudded away. The Lion was unable after a long chase to catch the Hart, and returned
to feed upon the Hare. On finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly served,
for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for the chance of obtaining more."

The Peasant and the Eagle

A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring the bird, set him free. The
Eagle did not prove ungrateful to his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall
which was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a bundle from his head.
When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the Eagle let the bundle fall again. Taking it up, the man
returned to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been sitting had fallen
to pieces; and he marveled at the service rendered him by the Eagle.

The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter

A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of Mercury, before which he made
offerings day by day, and begged the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties
he became poorer and poorer. At last, being very angry, he took his image down from its pedestal
and dashed it against the wall. When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art altogether contradictory
and unreasonable; for when I paid you honor, I reaped no benefits: but now that I maltreat
you I am loaded with an abundance of riches."

The Bull and the Goat

A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds had recently occupied.

The Monkeys and Their Mother

THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth. The Mother fondles one and nurtures
it with the greatest affection and care, but hates and neglects the other. It happened once
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by the too great affection of
the Mother, while the despised one was nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which
it was exposed.

The best intentions will not always ensure success.

The Oaks and Jupiter

THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for no purpose the burden of life,
as of all the trees that grow we are the most continually in peril of the axe." Jupiter made
answer: "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to which you are exposed: for
if you did not make such excellent pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to
the carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be laid to your roots."

The Traveler and Fortune

A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with fatigue, on the very brink of
a deep well. Just as he was about to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared
to him and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him: "Good Sir, pray wake up: for if
you fall into the well, the blame will be thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals;
for I find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however much by their own folly
they have really brought them on themselves."

Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.

The Shepherd and the Dog

A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about to shut up a wolf with them,
when his Dog perceiving the wolf said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if
you admit a wolf into the fold?"

The Lamp

A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted that it gave more light than
the sun. Then a sudden puff of wind arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished. Its owner
lit it again, and said: "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to give thy light in silence.
Know that not even the stars need to be relit."

The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass

THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist each other in the chase.
Having secured a large booty, the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot
his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty. The Ass carefully divided the
spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.
The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass. Then he requested the Fox to do
him the favor to make a division. The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large
heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel. The Lion said, "Who has taught you,
my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction." He replied,
"I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."

Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.

The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter

A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his horns. The Lioness came up,
and bitterly lamented the death of her whelp. A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood
at a distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have reason to lament the
loss of their children, whose deaths have been caused by you."

The Oak and the Woodcutters

THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces, making wedges of its own branches
for dividing the trunk. The Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by these wedges made from my own
branches."

Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.

The Hen and the Golden Eggs

A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every day. They supposed that the
Hen must contain a great lump of gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it.

The Ass and the Frogs

AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond. As he was crossing through the water
he lost his footing, stumbled and fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load,
groaned heavily. Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation, and said, "What would
you do if you had to live here always as we do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall
into the water?"

Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do large misfortunes.

The Crow and the Raven

A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird of good omen and always attracted
the attention of men, who noted by his flight the good or evil course of future events. Seeing
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and perching herself on one of the
branches, cawed as loudly as she could. The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered
what it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us proceed on our journey,
my friend, for it is only the caw of a crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."

Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only make themselves ridiculous.

The Crab and the Fox

A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow as its feeding ground. A Fox
came across him, and being very hungry ate him up. Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I on the land, when by my nature
and habits I am only adapted for the sea?"

Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.

The Ass and the Old Shepherd

A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all of a sudden by the cries
of the enemy. He appealed to the Ass to fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but
the animal lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the conqueror will place
on me two sets of panniers?" "No," rejoined the Shepherd. "Then," said the Ass, "as long as
I carry the panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?"

In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name of their master.

The Wolves and the Sheepdogs

THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs: "Why should you, who are like us in so many things,
not be entirely of one mind with us, and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you
in one point only. We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave for men, who in return
for your services flog you with whips and put collars on your necks. They make you also guard
their sheep, and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you. If you will be persuaded
by us, you will give us the sheep, and we will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."
The Dogs listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of the Wolves, they were
set upon and torn to pieces.

The Hares and the Foxes

THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to help them. They replied,
"We would willingly have helped you, if we had not known who you were, and with whom you were
fighting."

Count the cost before you commit yourselves.

Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.

The Camel

WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast size that he ran away. After
a time, perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough
to approach him. Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal altogether deficient in spirit,
he assumed such boldness as to put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.

Use serves to overcome dread.

The Wasp and the Snake

A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him unceasingly with his stings,
wounded him to death. The Snake, being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself
of his enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and purposely placed his head under
the wheels, saying, "At least my enemy and I shall perish together."

No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or distrust him.

The Fox and the Hedgehog

A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of the current into a very deep
ravine, where he lay for a long time very much bruised, sick, and unable to move. A swarm of
hungry blood-sucking flies settled upon him. A Hedgehog, passing by, saw his anguish and inquired
if he should drive away the flies that were tormenting him. "By no means," replied the Fox;
"pray do not molest them." "How is this?" said the Hedgehog; "do you not want to be rid of
them?" "No," returned the Fox, "for these flies which you see are full of blood, and sting
me but little, and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others more hungry will
come in their place, and will drink up all the blood I have left." Having instilled these fears
into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the hollow of the tree.

The Thief and the Innkeeper

A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope of stealing something which
should enable him to pay his reckoning. When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the Innkeeper
dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before his door. The Thief sat down beside him
and talked with him. As the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at the
same time howled like a wolf. The Innkeeper said, "Why do you howl so fearfully?" "I will tell
you," said the Thief, "but first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
pieces. I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor whether these attacks of howling
were inflicted on me as a judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do know,
that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a wolf and attack men." With this
speech he commenced a second fit of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.
The Innkeeper, hearing his tale and believing what he said, became greatly alarmed and, rising
from his seat, attempted to run away. The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to
stop, saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to pieces in my fury,
when I turn into a wolf." At the same moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible
howl. The Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new coat in the Thief's
hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn for safety. The Thief made off with the coat
and did not return again to the inn.

Every tale is not to be believed.

The Hart and the Vine

A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large leaves of a Vine. The huntsmen,
in their haste, overshot the place of his concealment. Supposing all danger to have passed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine. One of the huntsmen, attracted by the rustling
of the leaves, looked back, and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it.
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned: "I am rightly served, for I should not have maltreated
the Vine that saved me."

The Serpent and the Eagle

A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly conflict. The Serpent had
the advantage, and was about to strangle the bird. A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free. The Serpent, irritated at the escape of
his prey, injected his poison into the drinking horn of the countryman. The rustic, ignorant
of his danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with his wing, and, seizing
the drinking horn in his talons, carried it aloft.

The Two Frogs

TWO FROGS were neighbors. One inhabited a deep pond, far removed from public view; the other
lived in a gully containing little water, and traversed by a country road. The Frog that lived
in the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated him to come and live with
him, saying that he would enjoy greater safety from danger and more abundant food. The other
refused, saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he had become accustomed.
A few days afterwards a heavy wagon passed through the gully and crushed him to death under
its wheels.

A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.

The Wolf and the Fox

AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves
in strength, size, and swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion." The
Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size, thought that they gave him this
name in earnest, and, leaving his own race, consorted exclusively with the lions. An old sly
Fox, seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you do in your pride and
self-conceit; for even though you have the size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions
you are definitely a wolf."

The Walnut-Tree

A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of fruit. For the sake of the
nuts, the passers-by broke its branches with stones and sticks. The Walnut-Tree piteously exclaimed,
"O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit should repay me with these painful requitals!"
The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families
in that city. The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens).
Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he
was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under
the water and drowned him.

The Jackdaw and the Doves

A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with food, painted himself white
and joined them in order to share their plentiful maintenance. The Doves, as long as he was
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to their cote. But when one day
he forgot himself and began to chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
pecking him with their beaks. Failing to obtain food among the Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.
They too, not recognizing him on account of his color, expelled him from living with them.
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither. Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just what I
deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have turned piper to please you."

The Fox and the Monkey

A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road. As they journeyed, they passed
through a cemetery full of monuments. "All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey,
"are erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen and citizens of great
renown." The Fox replied, "You have chosen a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods,
as I am sure none of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."

A false tale often betrays itself.

The Thief and the Housedog

A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.

The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog

A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought shelter and protection from
Man. He received them kindly, lighted a fire, and warmed them. He let the Horse make free with
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with meat from his own table. Grateful
for these favors, the animals determined to repay him to the best of their ability. For this
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each endowed one portion of it
with the qualities which chiefly characterized himself. The Horse chose his earliest years
and gave them his own attributes: hence every man is in his youth impetuous, headstrong, and
obstinate in maintaining his own opinion. The Ox took under his patronage the next term of
life, and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to labor, and resolute to
amass wealth and to husband his resources. The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore
the old man is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish, tolerant only of his
own household, but averse to strangers and to all who do not administer to his comfort or to
his necessities.

The Apes and the Two Travelers

TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told nothing but lies, were traveling
together and by chance came to the land of Apes. One of the Apes, who had raised himself to
be king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he might know what was said
of him among men. He ordered at the same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on
his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among
men. After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
greeted them with this salutation: "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?"
The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king." "And what is your estimate
of those you see around me?" "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit
at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies." The Ape and all his court, gratified with
the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful
Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not
I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?" The Ape quickly turned to him.
"And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?" "Thou art," he said, "a most
excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The
King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of
his companions.

The Hares and the Lions

THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be equal. The Lions made this
reply: "Your words, O Hares! are good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."

The Lark and Her Young Ones

A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green wheat. The brood had almost
grown to their full strength and attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe crop, said, "The time has come
when I must ask all my neighbors to help me with my harvest." One of the young Larks heard
his speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what place they should move for
safety. "There is no occasion to move yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to
his friends to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest." The owner of the field
came again a few days later and saw the wheat shedding the grain from excess of ripeness. He
said, "I will come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers as I can hire,
and will get in the harvest." The Lark on hearing these words said to her brood, "It is time
now to be off, my little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer trusts his
friends, but will reap the field himself."

Self-help is the best help.

The Weasel and the Mice

A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to catch mice as he once did. He
therefore rolled himself in flour and lay down in a dark corner. A Mouse, supposing him to
be food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to death. Another perished
in a similar manner, and then a third, and still others after them. A very old Mouse, who had
escaped many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of his crafty foe and
said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper just in the same proportion as you are what
you pretend to be!" He requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it should
injure his throat. The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot, and was giving his whole mind
to the discovery of the thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his mouth
and galloped away.

The Seller of Images

A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for sale. When no one appeared
willing to buy it, in order to attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches. One of the bystanders said
to him, "My good fellow, why do you sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may
yourself enjoy the good things he has to give?" "Why," he replied, "I am in need of immediate
help, and he is wont to give his good gifts very slowly."

The Man and His Wife

A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his household. Wishing to find
out if she had the same effect on the persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to
send her home on a visit to her father. After a short time she returned, and when he inquired
how she had got on and how the servants had treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds
cast on me looks of aversion." He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by those who go out early
in the morning with their flocks and return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards
you by those with whom you passed the whole day!"

Straws show how the wind blows.

The Peacock and Juno

THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale pleased every ear with his song,
he himself no sooner opened his mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.
The Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and in size. The splendor of
the emerald shines in your neck and you unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage." "But
for what purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am surpassed in song?"
"The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty;
to the eagle, strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable, and to the crow,
unfavorable auguries. These are all contented with the endowments allotted to them."

The Hawk and the Nightingale

A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to his wont, was seen by a Hawk
who, being in need of food, swooped down and seized him. The Nightingale, about to lose his
life, earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not big enough to satisfy
the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted food, ought to pursue the larger birds.

The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox

A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together. At nightfall they took shelter
in a thick wood. The Cock flying up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk. When the morning dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed
very loudly several times. The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said: "Sir, I wish you would
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and waking my porter, so that
he may open the door and let you in." When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out
and caught him, and tore him to pieces.

The Lion and the Bull

A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to attack him on account of his
great size, resorted to a trick to ensure his destruction. He approached the Bull and said,
"I have slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and partake of him with me,
I shall be delighted to have your company." The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull
was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on
him. The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no
sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure. The Lion
inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not
given him any cause for offense. "I have reasons enough," said the Bull. "I see no indication
whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation
for your dining on a bull." They at once killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass. I prefer my
bare plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in safety, and without fear."

The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape

A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the charge. An Ape undertook to
adjudge the matter between them. When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
sentence: "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim; and I do believe you, Fox, to
have stolen what you so stoutly deny."

The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.

The Fly and the Draught-Mule

A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the Draught-Mule said, "How slow you
are! Why do you not go faster? See if I do not prick your neck with my sting." The Draught-Mule
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who sits above you, and who quickens
my pace with his whip, or holds me back with the reins. Away, therefore, with your insolence,
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."

The Fishermen

SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets. Perceiving them to be very heavy, they danced
about for joy and supposed that they had taken a large catch. When they had dragged the nets
to the shore they found but few fish: the nets were full of sand and stones, and the men were
beyond measure cast down so much at the disappointment which had befallen them, but because
they had formed such very different expectations. One of their company, an old man, said, "Let
us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy;
and it was only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced, should next have
something to make us sad."

The Fowler and the Viper

A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch birds. Seeing a thrush sitting
upon a tree, he wished to take it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky. While thus looking upwards, he unknowingly
trod upon a Viper asleep just before his feet. The Viper, turning about, stung him, and falling
into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that while I purposed to hunt another, I
am myself fallen unawares into the snares of death." The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart,
thus derided him: "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced
to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?" Yet it is of no value, as it entirely
lacks brains."

The Cobbler Turned Doctor

A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate by poverty, began to practice
medicine in a town in which he was not known. He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote
to all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded puffs and advertisements.
When the Cobbler happened to fall sick himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town
determined to test his skill. For this purpose he called for a cup, and while filling it with
water, pretended to mix poison with the Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the
promise of a reward. The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that he had no knowledge
of medicine, and was only made famous by the stupid clamors of the crowd. The Governor then
called a public assembly and addressed the citizens: "Of what folly have you been guilty? You
have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man, whom no one could employ to make even the
shoes for their feet."

The Brother and the Sister

A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for his good looks, the latter
for her extraordinary ugliness. While they were playing one day as children, they happened
by chance to look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's chair. The boy congratulated
himself on his good looks; the girl grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her
Brother, interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into reflection on herself.
She ran off to her father, to be avenged on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having,
as a boy, made use of that which belonged only to girls. The father embraced them both, and
bestowing his kisses and affection impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into
the mirror every day: you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty by evil conduct; and
you, my daughter, that you may make up for your lack of beauty by your virtues."

The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer

THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a Farmer and besought him to give
them some water to drink. They promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked. The
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make them produce finer grapes.
The Wasps said that they would keep guard and drive off thieves with their stings. But the
Farmer interrupted them, saying: "I have already two oxen, who, without making any promises,
do all these things. It is surely better for me to give the water to them than to you."

The Crow and Mercury

A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making a vow to offer some frankincense
at his shrine. But when rescued from his danger, he forgot his promise. Shortly afterwards,
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same promise to offer frankincense
to Mercury. Mercury soon appeared and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?"

The Two Men Who Were Enemies

TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same vessel. Determined to keep
as far apart as possible, the one seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of
the ship. A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger of sinking, the one in
the stern inquired of the pilot which of the two ends of the ship would go down first. On his
replying that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would not be grievous
to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before me."

The Gamecocks and the Partridge

A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard. One day by chance he found a tame Partridge for
sale. He purchased it and brought it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.

The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox

A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave. All the beasts came to visit their king, except
the Fox. The Wolf therefore, thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over them all and of not coming
to visit him. At that very moment the Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf. The
Lion roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity to defend himself and
said, "And who of all those who have come to you have benefited you so much as I, who have
traveled from place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt from the physicians
the means of healing you?" The Lion commanded him immediately to tell him the cure, when he
replied, "You must flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you." The Wolf was at
once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to him, said with a smile, "You should have
moved your master not to ill, but to good, will."

The Dog's House

IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as possible on account of the cold,
determined to make himself a house. However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep stretched
at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a great size. Now he considered that it
would be neither an easy nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would accommodate
him.

The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat

THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors. A Bat, fearing
the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.
When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.

The Spendthrift and the Swallow

A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his patrimony and had but one good cloak
left. One day he happened to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
along a pool and twittering gaily. He supposed that summer had come, and went and sold his
cloak. Not many days later, winter set in again with renewed frost and cold. When he found
the unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy bird! what have you done?
By thus appearing before the springtime you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought
my destruction also."

The Fox and the Lion

A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him, bitterly reviled him. The Lion
said to the Fox, "It is not thou who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."

The Owl and the Birds

AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn first began to sprout, to pull
it all up out of the ground and not allow it to grow. She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
from which an irremediable poison, the bird-lime, would be extracted and by which they would
be captured. The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which men had sown,
as it was a plant which boded no good to them. And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach,
predicted that this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers which would
fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves. The Birds gave no credence to these warning
words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad. But afterwards,
finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest
of birds. Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she
no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.

The Sparrow and the Hare

A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered cries like a child. A Sparrow
upbraided her and said, "Where now is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet
so slow?" While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him and killed him. The
Hare was comforted in her death, and expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed
yourself safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a similar misfortune."

The Flea and the Ox

A FLEA thus questioned an Ox: "What ails you, that being so huge and strong, you submit to
the wrongs you receive from men and slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without stint?" The Ox replied: "I do
not wish to be ungrateful, for I am loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my
head and shoulders." "Woe's me!" said the flea; "this very patting which you like, whenever
it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable destruction."

The Goods and the Ills

ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common share which they each had in
the affairs of mankind; for the Ills by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the
earth. The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous vengeance on their persecutors.
They entreated Jupiter that they might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble
law might be laid down for their future protection. Jupiter granted their request and decreed
that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in company with each other, but that the Goods
should one by one enter the habitations of men. Hence it arises that Ills abound, for they
come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means singly: while the Goods proceed from Jupiter,
and are given, not alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those who are
able to discern them.

Mercury and the Workmen

A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop by accident into a deep pool.
Being thus deprived of the means of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his
hard fate. Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears. After he told him his misfortune,
Mercury plunged into the stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the one
he had lost. On his saying that it was not his, Mercury disappeared beneath the water a second
time, returned with a silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were his. When
the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool for the third time and brought up the axe
that had been lost. The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery. Mercury,
pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver axes in addition to his own. The Workman,
on his return to his house, related to his companions all that had happened. One of them at
once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself. He ran to the river and
threw his axe on purpose into the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having learned the cause of his grief,
plunged into the stream and brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it. The Workman
seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the very same axe that he had lost. Mercury,
displeased at his knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to recover for him
the axe he had thrown into the pool. On their saying, "Father, what kind of bird is it?" he
replied, "To my certain knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."

The Fox and the Crane

A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his entertainment but some soup made
of pulse, which was poured out into a broad flat stone dish. The soup fell out of the long
bill of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the
Fox much amusement. The Crane, in his turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her
a flagon with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck and enjoy its contents
at his leisure. The Fox, unable even to taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion
of her own hospitality.

Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus

ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune,
and the first house by Minerva. On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as to which
had made the most perfect work. They agreed to appoint Momus as judge, and to abide by his
decision. Momus, however, being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with all.
He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made the horns of the bull below his
eyes, so he might better see where to strike. He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone might read the thoughts of
the evil disposed and take precautions against the intended mischief. And, lastly, he inveighed
against Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the foundation of her house, so
its inhabitants might more easily remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant. Jupiter, indignant
at such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge, and expelled him from
the mansions of Olympus. There, in the sight of the Eagle, the Fox gobbled them up.

The Man and the Satyr

A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of alliance being formed between them.
On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial of him, he answered, "I
do not need a trial; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."

A man is known by the company he keeps.

The Two Bags

EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world with two bags suspended from
his neck all bag in front full of his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with
his own faults. Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of others, and yet are often
blind to their own failings.

The Stag at the Pool

A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink. Seeing his own shadow reflected in the
water, he greatly admired the size and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for
having such slender and weak feet. While he was thus contemplating himself, a Lion appeared
at the pool and crouched to spring upon him. The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting
his utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept himself easily at a safe distance
from the Lion.

The Jackdaw and the Fox

A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had produced some fruit entirely
out of season, and waited in the hope that the figs would ripen. A Fox seeing him sitting so
long and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are indeed, sir, sadly deceiving
yourself; you are indulging a hope strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward
you with enjoyment."

The Lark Burying Her Father

THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the earth itself, and when her
father died, as there was no earth, she could find no place of burial for him. She let him
lie uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what else to do, she buried
him in her own head. Hence she obtained her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
grave-hillock.

Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.

The Gnat and the Bull

A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. Just as he was about to fly
off, he made a buzzing noise, and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go. The Bull
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."

Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors.

The Bitch and Her Whelps

A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she might litter. When
her request was granted, she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot. The
shepherd again consented. But at last the Bitch, protected by the bodyguard of her Whelps,
who had now grown up and were able to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the
place and would not permit the shepherd to approach.

The Dogs and the Hides

SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping in a river. Not being able
to reach them, they agreed to drink up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves
with drinking long before they reached the hides.

Attempt not impossibilities. The Sheep eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.

The Grasshopper and the Owl

AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day, was greatly disturbed by the
noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly besought her to stop chirping. The Grasshopper refused
to desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated. When she saw that she
could get no redress and that her words were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a
stratagem. "Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which, believe me, is
sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately
gave me. If you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together." The Grasshopper,
who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of her voice, eagerly flew up. The Owl came forth
from her hollow, seized her, and put her to death.

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree

A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but only served as a harbor for
the sparrows and grasshoppers. He resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand,
made a bold stroke at its roots. The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down
the tree that sheltered them, but to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors.
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his
axe. When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey. Having tasted the
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as sacred, took great care of it.

Self-interest alone moves some men.

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods

THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain trees to be under their special
protection. Jupiter chose the oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
Hercules the poplar. Minerva, wondering why they had preferred trees not yielding fruit, inquired
the reason for their choice. Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
for the fruit." But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will the olive is more dear to me
on account of its fruit." Then said Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for
unless what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain." When he reached his den, Mistress Wolf
inquired of him why he returned wearied and supperless, so contrary to his wont. He replied:
"Why, forsooth! use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"

The Ass and the Horse

AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed. "Yes," said the Horse; "if
any remains out of what I am now eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the evening, I will give you a little
sack full of barley." The Ass replied, "Thank you. But I can't think that you, who refuse me
a little matter now, will by and by confer on me a greater benefit."

Truth and the Traveler

A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing alone and terribly dejected.
He inquired of her, "Who art thou?" "My name is Truth," she replied. "And for what cause,"
he asked, "have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?" She made answer,
"Because in former times, falsehood was with few, but is now with all men."

The Manslayer

A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the man whom he murdered. On
his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up
a tree. He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again being greatly alarmed,
he threw himself into the river, where a crocodile caught him and ate him. Thus the earth,
the air, and the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.

The Lion and the Eagle

AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an alliance with him to their mutual
advantage. The Lion replied, "I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you
to find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a friend who is able to fly
away from his bargain whenever he pleases?"

Try before you trust.

The Buffoon and the Countryman

A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the people, and gave a public notice
that he would handsomely reward any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion. Various
public performers contended for the prize. Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace
for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out
on any stage before. This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was
crowded in every part. The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus
or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence. A Countryman
in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat
me at that trick!" and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day,
though in a much more natural way. On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater,
but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came
rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle. The Crowd, however, cried out
with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the
Countryman to be kicked out of the theater. On this the rustic produced the little pig from
his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake. "Look here,"
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."

The Hunter and the Horseman

A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his shoulders and set out homewards.
On his way he met a man on horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of purchasing
it. However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode off as fast as he could. The Hunter ran
after him, as if he was sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more the
distance between them. The Hunter, sorely against his will, called out to him and said, "Get
along with you! for I will now make you a present of the hare."

The Cat and Venus

A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus to change her into the form
of a woman. Venus consented to her request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so
that the youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride. While the two were reclining
in their chamber, Venus wishing to discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered
her habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room. The Cat, quite forgetting her
present condition, started up from the couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it. Venus
was much disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape.

Nature exceeds nurture.

The She-Goats and Their Beards

THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the He-Goats were sorely displeased
and made complaint that the females equaled them in dignity. "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex, so long as they are not your
equals in strength or courage."

It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should be like us in outside appearances.

The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass

A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair to sell him. They had not
gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well, talking and laughing.
"Look there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be trudging along the road
on foot when they might ride?" Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his
weary limbs." This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the
Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords
that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river. Upon this, the old man, vexed
and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody
he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.

The Crow and the Sheep

A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep. The Sheep, much against his will,
carried her backward and forward for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog
in this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth." To this the Crow replied,
"I despise the weak and yield to the strong. I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter;
and I thus prolong my life to a good old age."

The Fox and the Bramble

A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught hold of a Bramble to save himself.
Having pricked and grievously tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than the hedge itself. The Bramble,
interrupting him, said, "But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself
on me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."

They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into unsuspected danger. In pain the
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove take wing.

The Flea and the Man

A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and said, "Who are you who dare to
feed on my limbs, and to cost me so much trouble in catching you?" The Flea replied, "O my
dear sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot possibly do you much harm."
The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether
it be small or large, ought to be tolerated."

The Thieves and the Cock

SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock, whom they stole, and got off
as fast as they could. Upon arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
for his life: "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men. I wake them up in the night to
their work." "That is the very reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our business."

The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil intentions.

The Dog and the Cook

A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends and acquaintances. His Dog
availed himself of the occasion to invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master
gives a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup with me tonight." The
Dog thus invited went at the hour appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an entertainment,
said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that I came! I do not often get such a chance
as this. I will take care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow." While he was
congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his pleasure to his friend, the Cook
saw him moving about among his dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
without ceremony out of the window. He fell with force upon the ground and limped away, howling
dreadfully. His yelling soon attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
he had enjoyed his supper. He replied, "Why, to tell you the truth, I drank so much wine that
I remember nothing. I do not know how I got out of the house."

The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant

THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints. "It is true, O Jupiter!" he said, "that
I am gigantic in strength, handsome in shape, and powerful in attack. I have jaws well provided
with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it over all the beasts of the forest,
and what a disgrace it is, that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
a cock." Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I have given you all the attributes
which I possess myself, and your courage never fails you except in this one instance." On hearing
this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and, reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished
that he might die. As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and came close
to hold a conversation with him. After a time he observed that the Elephant shook his ears
very often, and he inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a tremor every
now and then. Just at that moment a Gnat settled on the head of the Elephant, and he replied,
"Do you see that little buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed. I should die
presently." The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no
more complain, nor wish myself dead. I find myself, even as I am, better off than the Elephant."

The Rich Man and the Tanner

A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the unpleasant smell of the tan-yard,
he pressed his neighbor to go away. The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
that he would leave soon. But as he still continued to stay, as time went on, the rich man
became accustomed to the smell, and feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.

The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea

A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept after his buffetings with the
deep. After a while he awoke, and looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches. He argued
that it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had induced them to plow its
waters, it grew rough and destroyed them. The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to
him: "Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own nature as calm and firm
even as this earth; but the winds suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
fury."

The Lion and the Shepherd

A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn. Soon afterward he came up to a Shepherd
and fawned upon him, wagging his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."
The Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and placing his paw upon his
lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his pain, the Lion returned into the forest. Some time
after, the Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned "to be cast to the
Lions" as the punishment for his imputed crime. But when the Lion was released from his cage,
he recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of attacking him, approached
and placed his foot upon his lap. The King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion
to be set free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and restored to his friends.

The Camel and Jupiter

THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him and wished that he himself could
obtain the same honors. He went to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns. Jupiter, vexed
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and strength of body, and desired
yet more, not only refused to give him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.

The Panther and the Shepherds

A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit. The Shepherds discovered him, and some threw
sticks at him and pelted him with stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about
to die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to prolong his life. At night
they returned home, not dreaming of any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would
find him dead. The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble strength, freed himself
with a sudden bound from the pit, and hastened to his den with rapid steps. After a few days
he came forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who had attacked him,
raged with angry fury. Then they who had spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered
to him their flocks and begged only for their lives. To them the Panther made this reply: "I
remember alike those who sought my life with stones, and those who gave me food aside, therefore,
your fears. I return as an enemy only to those who injured me." The Horse was wounded and fell
dead on the battlefield. Then the Ass, seeing all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated
the Horse.

The Eagle and His Captor

AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his wings and put him into his
poultry-yard with the other birds, at which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.
Later, another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow again. The Eagle took
flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought it at once as an offering to his benefactor. A Fox,
seeing this, exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your former owner,
lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a second time of your wings."

The Bald Man and the Fly

A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy it, gave himself a heavy
slap. Escaping, the Fly said mockingly, "You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the
Prick of a tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to injury?" The Bald
Man replied, "I can easily make peace with myself, because I know there was no intention to
hurt. But you, an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking human blood,
I wish that I could have killed you even if I had incurred a heavier penalty."

The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree

THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was green all the year round, the
Fig-Tree changed its leaves with the seasons. A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding
the Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke them down with its weight,
at once despoiling it of its beauty and killing the tree. But finding the Fig-Tree denuded
of leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure it at all. When the Ass
persisted in his effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to your cost."

The Thrush and the Fowler

A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it because its berries were so
delicious. A Fowler observed her staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
reeds, caught her. The Thrush, being at the point of death, exclaimed, "O foolish creature
that I am! For the sake of a little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."

The Rose and the Amaranth

AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed it: "What a lovely flower
is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods and with men. I envy you your beauty and your perfume."
The Rose replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief season! If no cruel hand
pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish by an early doom. But thou art immortal and dost never
fade, but bloomest for ever in renewed youth."

The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun

ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a wife, the Frogs lifted up
their voices in clamor to the sky. Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired
the cause of their complaint. One of them said, "The Sun, now while he is single, parches up
the marsh, and compels us to die miserably in our arid homes. What will be our future condition
if he should beget other suns?" G.F.T.

PREFACE

THE TALE, the Parable, and the Fable are all common and popular modes of conveying instruction.
Each is distinguished by its own special characteristics. The Tale consists simply in the narration
of a story either founded on facts, or created solely by the imagination, and not necessarily
associated with the teaching of any moral lesson. The Parable is the designed use of language
purposely intended to convey a hidden and secret meaning other than that contained in the words
themselves; and which may or may not bear a special reference to the hearer, or reader. The
Fable partly agrees with, and partly differs from both of these. It will contain, like the
Tale, a short but real narrative; it will seek, like the Parable, to convey a hidden meaning,
and that not so much by the use of language, as by the skilful introduction of fictitious characters;
and yet unlike to either Tale or Parable, it will ever keep in view, as its high prerogative,
and inseparable attribute, the great purpose of instruction, and will necessarily seek to inculcate
some moral maxim, social duty, or political truth. The true Fable, if it rise to its high requirements,
ever aims at one great end and purpose representation of human motive, and the improvement
of human conduct, and yet it so conceals its design under the disguise of fictitious characters,
by clothing with speech the animals of the field, the birds of the air, the trees of the wood,
or the beasts of the forest, that the reader shall receive advice without perceiving the presence
of the adviser. Thus the superiority of the counsellor, which often renders counsel unpalatable,
is kept out of view, and the lesson comes with the greater acceptance when the reader is led,
unconsciously to himself, to have his sympathies enlisted in behalf of what is pure, honorable,
and praiseworthy, and to have his indignation excited against what is low, ignoble, and unworthy.
The true fabulist, therefore, discharges a most important function. He is neither a narrator,
nor an allegorist. He is a great teacher, a corrector of morals, a censor of vice, and a commender
of virtue. In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or the Parable. The
fabulist is to create a laugh, but yet, under a merry guise, to convey instruction. Phaedrus,
the great imitator of Aesop, plainly indicates this double purpose to be the true office of
the writer of fables.

     Duplex libelli dos est: quod risum movet,
     Et quod prudenti vitam consilio monet.

The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm, and accounts for the universal
favor, of the fables of Aesop. "The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece
in an intentional travestie of human affairs. The 'ainos,' as its name denotes, is an admonition,
or rather a reproof veiled, either from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun
and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening among beasts; and wherever we have
any ancient and authentic account of the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."[1]

The construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1) the narration itself; (2) the
deduction of the moral; and (3) a careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of
the fictitious personages introduced into it. The narration should relate to one simple action,
consistent with itself, and neither be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted
by a variety of circumstances. The moral or lesson should be so plain, and so intimately interwoven
with, and so necessarily dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be compelled
to give to it the same undeniable interpretation. The introduction of the animals or fictitious
characters should be marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their natural attributes,
and to the qualities attributed to them by universal popular consent. The Fox should be always
cunning, the Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the Horse proud, and
the Ass patient. Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these
rules. They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and
with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley,[2] "in which
the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the
preference over all other mythologists. His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral
of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets
fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery. There
is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by
that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."[3] An equal amount of praise is due
for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are
marked. While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent
degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity
or rapacity.

These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.
Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative,
that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency
of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in
the history of the origin and descent of these fables. The great bulk of them are not the immediate
work of Aesop. Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.
Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod;[4] the "Eagle wounded
by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus;[5] the "Fox avenging his wrongs on
the Eagle," by Archilochus.[6] Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced
to the monks of the middle ages: and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both
earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so
large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped
with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be
considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has
ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position
of the first of moralists.[7]

The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed
down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition. Socrates is mentioned by Plato[8] as having
employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which
was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus
versified only such as he remembered. Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300
B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables. Phaedrus, a slave by birth
or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated
many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era. Aphthonius,
a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some
of these fables. This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom
of common use, both in these and in later times. The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed
to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss
the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and
rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables. Ausonius,[9]
the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire,
has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer
of no great name, translated into prose. Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some
of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to
hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.

Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop. During this
long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have
been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine
emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court,
that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop. Maximus Planudes, a learned
monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables. Little
is known of his history. Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.
He took an active part in public affairs. In 1327 A.D. he was sent on a diplomatic mission
to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder. This brought him into immediate contact with
the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring
on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church. Planudes has been exposed
to a two-fold accusation. He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of
Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface),
and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose: and
he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have
himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek
fabulist. The truth lies between these two extremes. Planudes may have invented some few fables,
or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable
internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop,
although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations
and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers. His collection is interesting
and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions
of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.

The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the
general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.
The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople,
1453 A.D. combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy;
and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely
identified. These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that
attracted attention. They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic
authors, in the minds of the great students of that day. Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous
promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories
of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.

These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency
of the printing press. Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these
fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English,
and printed at his press in West-minster Abbey, 1485.[10] It must be mentioned also that the
learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables,[11] by causing
the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced
into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are
yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.[12] The
publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum,"[13]
a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published
A.D. 1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and
the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.

The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity
was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation,
who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of
the Romish ecclesiastics. The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the
preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to
prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.
Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the
whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick
I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after
the Holy Scriptures. In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables
made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted
some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.

The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place
in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century. In the
year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of
these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica." This was a noble effort to do honor
to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.
It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the
various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published)
from MSS. in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three
from Babrias. It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus,
and other authors. This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;"
and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists
and great teachers of mankind. During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since
the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures,
has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables. They have been translated into the greater
number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read,
for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian. They are, at the present
time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household
words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.

This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of
the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables. It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface
the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of
circumstances. Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to
be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables. This intimation has since
given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day,
to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that
bear his name.

The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated
among the curiosities of literature. He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia
Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet
unsettled. He is placed, by one critic,[14] as far back as the institution of the Achaian League,
B.C. 250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D. 235; while others make him
a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus. At whatever time he wrote his version
of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been
lost sight of. His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close
of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of
the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during
the latter half of the twelfth century. Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have
described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain
a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St. James as
an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author. Francis Vavassor,[15]
a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs
from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens,
a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of
other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing
posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.[16]
These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth
century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained
that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic[17] iambics,
in which Babrias is known to have written: and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then
justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these
fables. Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.
Dr. Bentley[18] met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.
Mr. Charles Boyle,[19] afterwards Earl of Orrery. Their letters and disputations on this subject,
enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the
literary history of the seventeenth century. The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further
defended a few years later by Mr. Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil
distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr. Tyrwhitt
published, A.D. 1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic
meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian,
contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a
veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS. contained in the Vatican library several
fables never before published. In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown
upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the
MSS. of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.
Gall A.D. 1416. M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction
to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and
in carrying out his instructions he found a MS. at the convent of St. Laura, on Mount Athos,
which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.
This MS. was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five,
and the other ninety-five fables. This discovery attracted very general attention, not only
as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics,
but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and
to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable. The Fables thus
recovered were soon published. They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir
George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James
Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their
English editor. Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest,
and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.

The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:

   Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae. George Cornewall Lewis. Oxford, 1846.

   Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae. E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.
   George Cornewall Lewis. London: Parker, 1857.

   Mythologica Aesopica. Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti.
   Frankfort, 1610.

   Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio
   Francisci de Furia. Lipsiae, 1810.

   ------. Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii. Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.
   Delphin Classics. 1822.

GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND

FOOTNOTES

[Footnote 101: M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles
gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le
rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique. Art. Esope.]

[Footnote 1: A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, by K. O. Mueller. Vol. i, p. 191.
London, Parker, 1858.]

[Footnote 2: Select Fables of Aesop, and other Fabulists. In three books, translated by Robert
Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864. P. 60.]

[Footnote 3: Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a primary and private
interpretation. On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to
some passing event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing. Thus, the fables of the "Eagle
and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey" are supposed to have been written by Archilochus,
to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes. So also the fables of the "Swollen Fox" and of
the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the
inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while
the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against
granting a bodyguard to Phalaris. In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage
of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter
of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan. These fables, however, though
thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are
so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal
application.]

[Footnote 4: Hesiod. Opera et Dies, verse 202.]

[Footnote 5: Aeschylus. Fragment of the Myrmidons. Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing
before his day. See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808.]

[Footnote 6: Fragment. 38, ed. Gaisford. See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient
Greece, vol. i. pp. 190-193.]

[Footnote 7: M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop. "Il n'y a point d'apparence
que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent
bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."
And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention;
mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite. Esope la perfectionne si heureusement,
qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production." M. Bayle. Dictionnaire
Historique.]

[Footnote 8: Plato in Phoedone.]

[Footnote 9:

  Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum
  Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo
  Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.
  75-80.]

[Footnote 10: Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library
in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious.]

[Footnote 11: Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.
There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.
The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St. Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but
of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin. It is divided into four books,
and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures the
beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful,
the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c. None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop,
and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended
to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist. The exact title of the
book is this: "Speculum Sapientiae, B. Cyrilli Episcopi: alias quadripartitus apologeticus
vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter
incipit." The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by
Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted
in 1851. This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds
of subjects. It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable.]

[Footnote 12: Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould. Rivingtons, 1865.]

[Footnote 13: For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev. William
Shepherd. Liverpool. 1801.]

[Footnote 14: Professor Theodore Bergh. See Classical Museum, No. viii. July, 1849.]

[Footnote 15: Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D. 1658, at
the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose
of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that
time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers. Francisci Vavassoris
opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709.]

[Footnote 16: The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M.
Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.
Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors,
Nevelet and Vavassor.]

[Footnote 17: Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs
from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth
foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic. See Fables of Babrias, translated
by Rev. James Davies. Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p. 27.]

[Footnote 18: See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris.]

[Footnote 19: Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop
examined. By the Honorable Charles Boyle.]

