The shape of the arches, whether of window or of door, is one of the most characteristic features
of Manoelino. After it had been well established they were rarely pointed. Some are round,
some trefoils; some have a long line of wavy curves, others a line of sharp angles and curves
together.[105] In others, like the door to the Sala das Pegas at Cintra, and so probably derived
from Moorish sources, the arch is made of three or more convex curves, and in others again
the arch is half of a straight-sided polygon, while in many of the more elaborate all or many
of these may be used together to make one complicated whole of interlacing mouldings and hanging
cusps.

The capitals too are different from any that have come before. Some are round, but they are
more commonly eight-sided, or have at least an eight-sided abacus, often with the sides hollow
forming a star. If ornamented with leaves, the leaves do not grow out of the bell but are laid
round it like a wreath. But leaf carving is not common; usually the caps are merely moulded,
one or two of the mouldings being often like a rope; or branches may be set round them sometimes
bound together with a broad ribbon like a bent faggot. The bases too are usually octagonal
with an ogee section.

Another feature common to all phases is the use of round mouldings, either one by itself--often
forming a kind of twisting broken hood-mould--or of several together, when they usually form
a spiral. Such a round moulding has already been seen forming an ogee over the windows at Sempre
Noiva and over the chapter-house door at São João Evangelista, Evora, and there are at Evora
two windows side by side, in one of which this round moulding forms a simple ogee, while in
the other it forms a series of reversed curves after the true Manoelino manner.

[Sidenote: House of Resende, Evora.]

They are in the house of Garcia de Resende, a man of many accomplishments whose services were
much valued both by Dom João and by Dom Manoel. He seems too to have been an architect of some
distinction, if, as is said, he designed the Torre de São Vicente at Belem.

This second window in his house is one of the best examples of the complete union between Gothic
and Moorish. It has three shafts, one (in the centre) with a Moorish capital, and two whose
caps are bound round with a piece of rope. The semicircular arches consist of one round moulding
with round cusps. A hollow mould runs down the two jambs and over the two arches, turning up
as an ogee at the top. Beyond this hollow are two tall round shafts ending in large crocketed
finials, while tied to them with carved cords is a curious hood-mould, forming three reversed
cusps ending in large finials, one in the centre and one over each of the arches, and at the
two ends curling across the hollow like a cut-off branch.

Here then we have an example not only of the use of the round moulding, but also of naturalistic
treatment which was afterwards sometimes carried to excess.

Probably this window may be rather later in date than at least the foundation of the churches
of Nossa Senhora do Popolo at Caldas da Rainha or of the Jesus Convent at Setubal; but it is
in itself so good an example of the change from the simple ogee to the round broken moulding
and of the use of naturalistic features, that it has been taken first.

In 1485 Queen Leonor, wife of Dom João II., began a

[Sidenote: Caldas da Rainha.]

hospital for poor bathers at the place now called after her, Caldas da Rainha, or Queen's hot
baths. Beside the hospital was built a small church, now a good deal altered, with simple round-headed
windows, and a curious cresting. Attached to it is a tower, interesting as being the only Manoelino
church tower now existing. The lower part is square and plain, but the upper is very curious.
On one side are two belfry windows, with depressed trefoil heads--that is the top of the trefoil
has a double curve, exactly like the end of a clover leaf. On the outer side of each window
is a twisted shaft with another between them, and from the top of these shafts grow round branches
forming an arch over each window, and twining up above them in interlacing curves. The window
on the east side has a very fantastic head of broken curves and straight lines. A short way
above the windows the square is changed to an octagon by curved offsets. There are clock faces
under small gables on each cardinal side, and at the top of it all rises a short eight-sided spire.

Probably this was the last part of the church to be built, and so would not be finished till
about the year 1502, when the whole was dedicated.

[Sidenote: Jesus, Setubal.]

More interesting than this is the Jesus College at Setubal. Founded by Justa Rodrigues, Dom
Manoel's nurse, in 1487 or 1488 and designed by one Boutaca or Boitaca,[106] it was probably
finished sooner than the church at Caldas, and is the best example in the country of a late
Gothic church modified by the addition of certain Manoelino details. Unfortunately it was a
good deal injured by the great earthquake in 1755, when it lost all pinnacles and parapets.
The church consists of a nave and aisles of three and a half bays and of a square chancel.
Inside, the side aisles are vaulted with a half barrel and the central with a simple vault
having large plain chamfered ribs. The columns, trefoils in section, are twisted, and have
simple moulded caps. The chancel which is higher than the nave is entered by a large pointed
arch, which like its jambs has one of its mouldings twisted. The chancel vault has many ribs,
most of which are also twisted. All the piers and jambs as well as the windows are built of
Arrabida marble, a red breccia found in the mountains to the west of Setubal; the rest is all
whitewashed except the arches and vaulting ribs which are painted in imitation of the marble piers.

Outside, the main door, also of Arrabida marble, is large and pointed, with many mouldings
and two empty niches on each side. It has little trace of Manoelino except in the bent curves
of the upturned drip-mould, and in the broken lines of the two smaller doors which open under
the plain tympanum. The nave window is of two lights with simple tracery, but in the chancel,
which was ready by 1495, the window shows more Manoelino tendencies. It is of three lights,
with flowing tracery at the head, and with small cusped and crocketed arches thrown across
each light at varying levels. There are niches on the jambs, and the outer moulding is carried
round the window head in broken curves, after the manner of Resende's house at Evora. Though
the chancel is square inside, the corners outside are cut off by a very broad chamfer, and
a very curious ogee curve unites the two.

The cloisters to the north are more usual. The arches are round or slightly pointed, and like
the short round columns with their moulded eight-sided caps and sides, are of Arrabida marble.
Half-way along each walk two of the columns are set more closely together, and between them
is a small round arch, with below it a Manoelino trefoil; there is too in the north-west corner
a lavatory with a good flat vault.

[Sidenote: Beja, Conceição.]

At Beja the church of the Conceição, founded by Dom Manoel's father, has been very much pulled
about, but the cornice and parapet with Gothic details, rope mouldings, and twisted pinnacles
still show that it also was built when the new Manoelino style was first coming into use.

[Sidenote: Castle.]

In the ruins of the Castle there is a very picturesque window where two horseshoe arches are
set so close together that the arches meet in such a way that the cusps at their meeting form
a pendant, while another window in the Rua dos Mercadores, though very like the one in Resende's
house in Evora, is more naturalistic. The outer shafts of the jambs are carved like tree trunks,
and the hood moulding like a thick branch is bent and interlaced with other branches.

[Sidenote: Paço, Cintra.]

The additions made to the palace at Cintra by Dom Manoel are a complete treasury of Manoelino
detail in its earlier phases.

The works were already begun in 1508, and in January of the previous year André Gonsalves,
who was in charge, bought two notebooks for 240 reis in which to set down expenses, as well
as paper for his office and four bottles of ink. From these books we learn what wages the different
workmen received. Pero de Carnide, the head mason, got 50 reis or about twopence-halfpenny
a day, and his helper only 35 reis. The chief carpenter, Johan Cordeiro, had 60 reis a day,
and so had Gonçalo Gomes, the head painter. All the workmen are recorded from Pero de Torres,
who was paid 3500 reis, about 14 shillings, for each of the windows he carved and set up, down
to the man who got 35 reis a day for digging holes for planting orange-trees and for clearing
out the place where the rabbits were kept. André Gonsalves also speaks of a Boitaca, master
mason. He was doubtless the Boitaca or Boutaca of the Jesus Church at Setubal and afterwards
at Belem, though none of his work at Setubal in any way resembles anything he may have done here.

The carriage entry which runs under the palace between Dom Manoel's addition and the earlier
part of the palace, has in it some very characteristic capitals, two which support the entrance
arch, while one belongs to the central column of an arcade which forms a sort of aisle on the
west side. They are all round, though one belongs to an octagonal shaft. They have no abacus
proper, but instead two branches are bent round, bound together by a wide ribbon. Below these
branches are several short pieces of rope turned in just above the neck-mould, and between
them carved balls, something like two artichokes stuck together face to face.

On the east side of the entry a large doorway leads into the newer part of the palace, in which
are now the queen-dowager's private rooms. This doorhead is most typical of the style. In the
centre two flat convex curves meet at an obtuse angle. At the end of about two feet on either
side of the centre the moulding forming these curves is bent sharply down for a few inches
to a point, and is then united to the jambs by a curve rather longer than a semicircle. Outside
the round moulding forming these curves and bends is a hollow following the same lines and
filled with branch-work, curved, twisted, and intertwined. Outside the hollow are shafts, resting
on octagonal and interpenetrating bases.

These shafts are half-octagon in section with hollow--not as usual rounded--sides, ornamented
with four-leafed flowers, and are twisted. Their capitals are formed by three carved wreaths,
from which the shafts rise to curious half-Gothic pinnacles; they are also curved over to form
a hood-mould. Above the central curves this moulding is broken and turned up to end in most
curious cone-shaped horns, while from the middle there grows a large and elaborate finial.

