The language a man uses, however, is of far less importance than the thing he has to say, and
it detracts little from the cardinal importance of Marx that his books will presently demand
restatement in contemporary phraseology, and revision in the light of contemporary facts. He
opened out Socialism. It is easy to quibble about Marx, and say he didn't see this or that,
to produce this eddy in a backwater or that as a triumphant refutation of his general theory.
One may quibble about the greatness of Marx as one may quibble about the greatness of Darwin;
he remains great and cardinal. He first saw and enabled the world to see capitalistic production
as a world process, passing by necessity through certain stages of social development, and
unless some change of law and spirit came to modify it, moving towards an inevitable destiny.
His followers are too apt to regard that as an absolutely inevitable destiny, but the fault
lies not at his door. He saw it as Socialism. It did not appear to him as it does to many that
there is a possible alternative to Socialism, that the process may give us, not a triumph for
the revolting proletariat, but their defeat, and the establishment of a plutocratic aristocracy
culminating in imperialism and ending in social disintegration. From his study, from the studious
rotunda of the British Museum Reading-room he made his prophecy of the growing class consciousness
of the workers, of the inevitable class war, of the revolution and the millennium that was
to follow it. He gathered his facts, elaborated his deductions and waited for the dawn.

So far as his broad generalization of economic development goes, events have wonderfully confirmed
Marx. The development of Trusts, the concentration of property that America in particular displays,
he foretold. Given that men keep to the unmodified ideas of private property and individualism,
and it seems absolutely true that so the world must go. And in the American Appeal to Reason,
for example, which goes out weekly from Kansas to a quarter of a million of subscribers, one
may, if one chooses, see the developing class consciousness of the workers, and the promise--and
when strikers take to rifles and explosives as they do in Pennsylvania and Colorado, something
more than the promise--of the class war....

But the modern Socialist considers that this generalization is a little too confident and comprehensive;
he perceives that a change in custom, law or public opinion may delay, arrest or invert the
economic process, and that Socialism may arrive after all not by a social convulsion, but by
the gradual and detailed concession of its propositions. The Marxist presents dramatically
what after all may come methodically and unromantically, a revolution as orderly and quiet
as the precession of the equinoxes. There may be a concentration of capital and a relative
impoverishment of the general working mass of people, for example, and yet a general advance
in the world's prosperity and a growing sense of social duty in the owners of capital and land
may do much to mask this antagonism of class interests and ameliorate its miseries. Moreover,
this antagonism itself may in the end find adequate expression through temperate discussion,
and the class war come disguised beyond recognition, with hates mitigated by charity and swords
beaten into pens, a mere constructive conference between two classes of fairly well-intentioned
albeit perhaps still biassed men and women.

§ 2.

The circle of ideas in which Marx moved was that of a student deeply tinged with the idealism
of the renascent French Revolution. His life was the life of a recluse from affairs--an invalid's
life; a large part of it was spent round and about the British Museum Reading-room, and his
conceptions of Socialism and the social process have at once the spacious vistas given by the
historical habit and the abstract quality that comes with a divorce from practical experience
of human government. Only in England and in the eighties did the expanding propositions of
Socialism come under the influence of men essentially administrative. As a consequence Marx,
and still more the early Marxists, were and are negligent of the necessities of government
and crude in their notions of class action. He saw the economic process with a perfect lucidity,
practically he foretold the consolidation of the Trusts, and his statement of the necessary
development of an entirely propertyless working-class with an intensifying class consciousness
is a magnificent generalization. He saw clearly up to that opposition of the many and the few,
and then his vision failed because his experience and interests failed. There was to be a class
war, and numbers schooled to discipline by industrial organization were to win.

After that the teaching weakens in conviction. The proletariat was to win in the class war;
then classes would be abolished, property in the means of production and distribution would
be abolished, all men would work reasonably--and the millennium would be with us.

The constructive part of the Marxist programme was too slight. It has no psychology. Contrasted,
indeed, with the splendid destructive criticisms that preceded it, it seems indeed trivial.
It diagnoses a disease admirably, and then suggests rather an incantation than a plausible
remedy. And as a consequence Marxist Socialism appeals only very feebly to the man of public
affairs or business or social experience. It does not attract teachers or medical men or engineers.
It arouses such men to a sense of social instability but it offers no remedy. They do not believe
in the mystical wisdom of the People. They find no satisfactory promise of a millennium in
anything Marx foretold.

To the labouring man, however, accustomed to take direction and government as he takes air
and sky, these difficulties of the administrative and constructive mind do not occur. His imagination
raises no questioning in that picture of the proletariat triumphant after a class war and quietly
coming to its own. It does not occur to him for an instant to ask "how?"

Question the common Marxist upon these difficulties and he will relapse magnificently into
the doctrine of laissez faire. "That will be all right," he will tell you.

"How?"

"We'll take over the Trusts and run them."...

It is part of the inconveniences attending all powerful new movements of the human mind that
the disciple bolts with the teacher, overstates him, underlines him, and it is no more than
a tribute to the potency of Marx that he should have paralyzed the critical faculty in a number
of very able men. To them Marx is a final form of truth. They talk with bated breath of a "classic
Socialism," to which no man may add one jot or one tittle, to which they are as uncritically
pledged as extreme Bible Christians are bound to the letter of the "Word."...

The peculiar evil of the Marxist teaching is this, that it carries the conception of a necessary
economic development to the pitch of fatalism, it declares with all the solemnity of popular
"science" that Socialism must prevail. Such a fatalism is morally bad for the adherent; it
releases him from the inspiring sense of uncertain victory, it leads him to believe the stars
in their courses will do his job for him. The common Marxist is apt to be sterile of effort,
therefore, and intolerant--preaching predestination and salvation without works.

By a circuitous route, indeed, the Marxist reaches a moral position curiously analogous to
that of the disciple of Herbert Spencer. Since all improvement will arrive by leaving things
alone, the worse things get, the better; for so much the nearer one comes to the final exasperation,
to the class war and the Triumph of the Proletariat. This certainty of victory in the nature
of things makes the Marxists difficult in politics, pedantic sticklers for the letter of the
teaching, obstinate opponents of what they call "Palliatives"--of any instalment system of
reform. They wait until they can make the whole journey in one stride, and would, in the meanwhile,
have no one set forth upon the way. In America the Marxist fatalism has found a sort of supreme
simplification in the gospel of Mr. H. G. Wilshire. The Trusts, one learns, are to consolidate
all the industry in the country, own all the property. Then when they own everything, the Nation
will take them over. "Let the Nation own the Trusts!" The Nation in the form of a public, reading
capitalistic newspapers, inured to capitalistic methods, represented and ruled by capital-controlled
politicians, will suddenly take over the Trusts and begin a new system....

It would be quite charmingly easy--if it were only in the remotest degree credible.

§ 3.

The Marxist teaching tends to an unreasonable fatalism. Its conception of the world after the
class war is over is equally antagonistic to intelligent constructive effort. It faces that
Future, utters the word "democracy," and veils its eyes.

The conception of democracy to which the Marxist adheres is that same mystical democracy that
was evolved at the first French Revolution; it will sanction no analysis of the popular wisdom.
It postulates a sort of spirit hidden as it were in the masses and only revealed by a universal
suffrage of all adults--or, according to some Social Democratic Federation authorities who
do not believe in women, all adult males--at the ballot box. Even a large proportion of the
adults will not do--it must be all. The mysterious spirit that thus peers out and vanishes
again at each election is the People, not any particular person, but the quintessence, and
it is supposed to be infallible; it is supposed to be not only morally but intellectually omniscient.
It will not even countenance the individuality of elected persons, they are to be mere tools,
delegates, from this diffused, intangible Oracle, the Ultimate Wisdom....

Well, it may seem ungracious to sneer at the grotesque formulation of an idea profoundly wise,
at the hurried, wrong, arithmetical method of rendering that collective spirit a community
undoubtedly can and sometimes does possess--I myself am the profoundest believer in democracy,
in a democracy awake intellectually, conscious and self-disciplined--but so long as this mystic
faith in the crowd, this vague, emotional, uncritical way of evading the immense difficulties
of organizing just government and a collective will prevails, so long must the Socialist project
remain not simply an impracticable but, in an illiterate, badly-organized community, even a
dangerous suggestion. I as a Socialist am not blind to these possibilities, and it is foolish
because a man is in many ways on one's side that one should not call attention to his careless
handling of a loaded gun. Social-Democracy may conceivably become a force that in the sheer
power of untutored faith may destroy government and not replace it. I do not know how far that
is not already the case in Russia. I do not know how far this may not ultimately be the case
in the United States of America.

The Marxist teaching, great as was its advance on the dispersed chaotic Socialism that preceded
it, was defective in other directions as well as in its innocence of any scheme of State organization.
About women and children, for example, it was ill-informed; its founders do not seem to have
been inspired either by educational necessities or philoprogenitive passion. No biologist--indeed
no scientific mind at all--seems to have tempered its severely "economic" tendencies. It so
over-accentuates the economic side of life that at moments one might imagine it dealt solely
with some world of purely "productive" immortals, who were never born and never aged, but only
warred for ever in a developing industrial process.

Now reproduction and not production is the more central fact of social life. Women and children
and education are things in the background of the Marxist proposal--like a man's dog, or his
private reading, or his pet rabbits. They are in the foreground of modern Socialism. The Social
Democrat's doctrines go little further in this direction than the Liberalism that founded the
United States, which ignored women, children and niggers, and made the political unit the adult
white man. They were blind to the supreme importance of making the next generation better than
the present as the aim and effort of the whole community. Herr Bebel's book, Woman, is an ample
statement of the evils of woman's lot under the existing régime, but the few pages upon the
Future of Woman with which he concludes are eloquent of the jejune insufficiency of the Marxist
outlook in this direction. Marriage, which modern Socialism tends more and more to sustain,
was to vanish--at least as a law-made bond; women were to count as men so far as the State
is concerned....

This disregard of the primary importance of births and upbringing in human affairs and this
advocacy of mystical democracy alike contribute to blind the Marxist to the necessity of an
educational process and of social discipline and to the more than personal importance of marriage
in the Socialist scheme. He can say with a light and confident heart to untrained, ignorant,
groping souls: "Destroy the Government; expropriate the rich, establish manhood suffrage, elect
delegates strictly pledged--and you will be happy!"

A few modern Marxists stipulate in addition for a Referendum, by which the acts of the elected
delegates can be further checked by referring disputed matters to a general vote of all the
adults in the community....

§ 4.

My memory, as I write these things of Marxism, carries me to the dusky largeness of a great
meeting in Queen's Hall, and I see again the back of Mr. Hyndman's head moving quickly, as
he receives and answers questions. It was really one of the strangest and most interesting
meetings I have ever attended. It was a great rally of the Social Democratic Federation, and
the place--floor, galleries and platform--was thick but by no means overcrowded with dingy,
earnest people. There was a great display of red badges and red ties, and many white faces,
and I was struck by the presence of girls and women with babies. It was more like the Socialist
meetings of the popular novel than any I had ever seen before. In the chair that night was
Lady Warwick, that remarkable intruder into the class conflict, a blond lady, rather expensively
dressed, so far as I could judge, about whom the atmosphere of class consciousness seemed to
thicken. Her fair hair, her floriferous hat, told out against the dim multitudinous values
of the gathering unquenchably; there were moments when one might have fancied it was simply
a gathering of village tradespeople about the lady patroness, and at the end of the proceedings,
after the red flag had been waved, after the "Red Flag" had been sung by a choir and damply
echoed by the audience, some one moved a vote of thanks to the Countess in terms of familiar
respect that completed the illusion.

Mr. Hyndman's lecture was entitled "In the Rapids of Revolution," and he had been explaining
how inevitable the whole process was, how Russia drove ahead, and Germany and France and America,
to the foretold crisis and the foretold millennium. But incidentally he also made a spirited
exhortation for effort, for agitation, and he taunted England for lagging in the schemes of
fate. Some one amidst the dim multitude discovered an inconsistency in that.

Now the questions were being handed in, written on strips of paper, and at last that listener's
difficulty cropped up.

"What's this?" said Mr. Hyndman; unfolded the slip and read out: "Why trouble to agitate or
work if the Trusts are going to do it all for us?"

The veteran leader of the Social Democratic Federation paused only for a moment.

"Well, we've got to get ready for it, you know," he said, rustling briskly with the folds of
the question to follow--and with these words, it seemed to me, that fatalistic Marxism crumbled
down to dust.

We have got to get ready for it. Indeed, we have to make it--by education and intention and
set resolve. Socialism is to be attained not by fate, but by will.

§ 5.

And here, as a sort of Eastern European gloss upon Marxist Socialism, as an extreme and indeed
ultimate statement of this marriage of mystical democracy to Socialism, we may say a word of
Anarchism. Anarchism carries the administrative laissez faire of Marx to its logical extremity.
"If the common, untutored man is right anyhow--why these ballot boxes; why these intermediaries
in the shape of law and representative?"

That is the perfectly logical outcome of ignoring administration and reconstruction. The extreme
Social-Democrat and the extreme Individualist meet in a doctrine of non-resistance to the forces
of Evolution--which in this connection they deify with a capital letter. Organization, control,
design, the disciplined will, these are evil, they declare--the evil of life. So you come at
the end of the process, if you are active-minded, to the bomb as the instrument of man's release
to unimpeded virtue, and if you are pacific in disposition to the Tolstoyan attitude of passive
resistance to all rule and property.

Anarchism, then, is as it were a final perversion of the Socialist stream, a last meandering
of Socialist thought, released from vitalizing association with an active creative experience.
Anarchism comes when the Socialist repudiation of property is dropped into the circles of thought
of men habitually ruled and habitually irresponsible, men limited in action and temperamentally
adverse to the toil, to the vexatious rebuffs and insufficiencies, the dusty effort, fatigue,
and friction of the practical pursuit of a complex ideal. So that it most flourishes eastwardly,
where men, it would seem, are least energetic and constructive, and it explodes or dies on
American soil.

Anarchism, with its knife and bomb, is a miscarriage of Socialism, an acephalous birth from
that fruitful mother. It is an unnatural offspring, opposed in nature to its parent, for always
from the beginning the constructive spirit, the ordering and organizing spirit has been strong
among Socialists. It was by a fallacy, an oversight, that laissez faire in politics crept into
a movement that was before all things an organized denial of laissez faire in economic and
social life....

I write this of the Anarchism that is opposed to contemporary Socialism, the political Anarchism.
But there is also another sort of Anarchism, which the student of these schools of thought
must keep clear in his mind from this, the Anarchism of Tolstoy and that other brand of William
Morris, neither of which waves any flag of black, nor counsels violence; they present that
conception of untrammelled and spontaneous rightness and goodness which is, indeed, I hazard,
the moral ideal of all rightly-thinking men. It is worth while to define very clearly the relation
of this second sort of Anarchism, the nobler Anarchism, to the toiling constructive Socialism
which many of us now make our practical guide in life's activities, to say just where they
touch and where they are apart.

Now the ultimate ideal of human intercourse is surely not Socialism at all, but a way of life
that is not litigious and not based upon jealously-guarded rights, which is free from property,
free from jealousy, and "above the law." There, there shall not be "marriage or giving in marriage."
The whole mass of Christian teaching points to such an ideal; Paul and Christ turn again and
again to the ideal of a world of "just men made perfect," in which right and beauty come by
instinct, in which just laws and regulations are unnecessary and unjust ones impossible. "Turn
your attention," says my friend, the Rev. Stewart Headlam, in his admirable tract on Christian
Socialism--

    "Turn your attention to that series of teachings of Christ's
    which we call parables--comparisons, that is to say, between
    what Christ saw going on in the every-day world around Him and
    the Kingdom of Heaven. If by the Kingdom of Heaven in these
    parables is meant a place up in the clouds, or merely a state
    in which people will be after death, then I challenge you to
    get any kind of meaning out of them whatever. But if by the
    Kingdom of Heaven is meant (as it is clear from other parts of
    Christ's teaching is the case) the righteous society to be
    established upon earth, then they all have a plain and
    beautiful meaning; a meaning well summed up in that saying so
    often quoted against us by the sceptic and the atheist, 'Seek
    ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all
    these things shall be added unto you;' or, in other words,
    'Live,' Christ said, 'all of you together, not each of you by
    himself; live as members of the righteous society which I have
    come to found upon earth, and then you will be clothed as
    beautifully as the Eastern lily and fed as surely as the
    birds.'"

And the Rev. R. J. Campbell, who comes to Socialism by way of Nonconformity, is equally convincing
in support of this assertion that the "Kingdom of Heaven" was and is a terrestrial ideal.

This is not simply the Christian ideal of society, it is the ideal of every right-thinking
man, of every man with a full sense of beauty. You will find it rendered in two imperishably
beautiful Utopias of our own time, both, I glory to write, by Englishmen, the News from Nowhere
of William Morris, and Hudson's exquisite Crystal Age. Both these present practically Anarchist
States, both assume idealized human beings, beings finer, simpler, nobler than the heated,
limited and striving poor souls who thrust and suffer among the stresses of this present life.
And the present writer, too--I must mention him here to guard against a confusion in the future--when
a little while ago he imagined humanity exalted morally and intellectually by the brush of
a comet's tail,[20] was forced by the logic of his premises and even against his first intention
to present not a Socialist State but a glorious anarchism as the outcome of that rejuvenescence
of the world.

   [20] In the Days of the Comet. (Macmillan & Co., 1906.)
        Anti-Socialist speakers and writers are in the habit of
        quoting passages of a review from the Times Literary
        Supplement, published during the heat of the "Book War,"
        and promptly controverted, as though they were quotations
        from this book.

But the business of Socialism lies at a lower level and concerns immediate things; our material
is the world as it is, full of unjust laws, bad traditions, bad habits, inherited diseases
and weaknesses, germs and poisons, filths and envies. We are not dealing with magnificent creatures
such as one sees in ideal paintings and splendid sculpture, so beautiful they may face the
world naked and unashamed; we are dealing with hot-eared, ill-kempt people, who are liable
to indigestion, baldness, corpulence and fluctuating tempers; who wear top-hats and bowler
hats or hats kept on by hat-pins (and so with all the other necessary clothing); who are pitiful
and weak and vain and touchy almost beyond measure, and very naughty and intemperate; who have,
alas! to be bound over to be in any degree faithful and just to one another. To strip such
people suddenly of law and restraint would be as dreadful and ugly as stripping the clothes
from their poor bodies....

That Anarchist world, I admit, is our dream; we do believe--well, I, at any rate, believe this
present world, this planet, will some day bear a race beyond our most exalted and temerarious
dreams, a race begotten of our wills and the substance of our bodies, a race, so I have said
it, "who will stand upon the earth as one stands upon a footstool, and laugh and reach out
their hands amidst the stars," but the way to that is through education and discipline and
law. Socialism is the preparation for that higher Anarchism; painfully, laboriously we mean
to destroy false ideas of property and self, eliminate unjust laws and poisonous and hateful
suggestions and prejudices, create a system of social right-dealing and a tradition of right-feeling
and action. Socialism is the school-room of true and noble Anarchism, wherein by training and
restraint we shall make free men.

There is a graceful and all too little known fable by Mr. Max Beerbohm, The Happy Hypocrite,
which gives, I think, not only the relation of Socialism to philosophic Anarchism, but of all
discipline to all idealism. It is the story of a beautiful mask that was worn by a man in love,
until he tired even of that much of deceit and, a little desperately, threw it aside--to find
his own face beneath changed to the likeness of the self he had desired. So would we veil the
greed, the suspicion of the self-seeking scramble of to-day under institutions and laws that
will cry "duty and service" in the ears and eyes of all mankind, keep down the evil so long
and so effectually that at last law will be habit, and greed and self-seeking cease for ever,
from being the ruling impulse of the world. Socialism is the mask that will mould the world
to that better Anarchism of good men's dreams....

But these are long views, glimpses beyond the Socialist horizon. The people who would set up
Anarchism to-day are people without human experience or any tempering of humour, only one shade
less impossible than the odd one-sided queer beings one meets, ridiculously inaccessible to
laughter, who, caricaturing their Nietzsche and misunderstanding their Shaw, invite one to
set up consciously with them in the business of being Overmen, to rule a world full of our
betters, by fraud and force. It is a foolish teaching saved only from being horrible by being
utterly ludicrous. For us the best is faith and humility, truth and service, our utmost glory
is to have seen the vision and to have failed--not altogether.... For ourselves and such as
we are, let us not "deal in pride," let us be glad to learn a little of this spirit of service,
to achieve a little humility, to give ourselves to the making of Socialism and the civilized
State without presumption--as children who are glad they may help in a work greater than themselves
and the toys that have heretofore engaged them.

CHAPTER XII

ADMINISTRATIVE SOCIALISM

§ 1.

Marx gave to Socialism a theory of world-wide social development, and rescued it altogether
from the eccentric and localized associations of its earliest phases; he brought it so near
to reality that it could appear as a force in politics, embodied first as the International
Association of Working Men, and then as the Social Democratic movement of the continent of
Europe that commands to-day over a third of the entire poll of German voters. So much Marx
did for Socialism. But if he broadened its application to the world, he narrowed its range
to only the economic aspect of life. He arrested for a time the discussion of its biological
and moral aspects altogether. He left it an incomplete doctrine of merely economic reconstruction
supplemented by mystical democracy, and both its mysticism and incompleteness, while they offered
no difficulties to a labouring man ignorant of affairs, rendered it unsubstantial and unattractive
to people who had any real knowledge of administration.

It was left chiefly to the little group of English people who founded the Fabian Society to
supply a third system of ideas to the amplifying conception of Socialism, to convert Revolutionary
Socialism into Administrative Socialism.

This new development was essentially the outcome of the reaction of its broad suggestions of
economic reconstruction upon the circle of thought of one or two young officials of genius,
and of one or two persons upon the fringe of that politic-social stratum of Society, the English
"governing class." I make this statement, I may say, in the loosest possible spirit. The reaction
is one that was not confined to England, it was to some extent inevitable wherever the new
movement in thought became accessible to intelligent administrators and officials. But in the
peculiar atmosphere of British public life, with its remarkable blend of individual initiative
and a lively sense of the State, this reaction has had the freest development. There was, indeed,
Fabianism before the Fabian Society; it would be ingratitude to some of the most fruitful social
work of the middle Victorian period to ignore the way in which it has contributed in suggestion
and justification to the Socialist synthesis. The city of Birmingham, for example, developed
the most extensive process of municipalization as the mere common-sense of local patriotism.
But the movement was without formulæ and correlation until the Fabians came.

