On the 19th General Thomas repeated to me the same orders he had sent to General Stanley, in
these words:  "If the enemy advances in force, as General Hatch believes, have everything in
readiness either to fight him at Pulaski if he advances on that place, or cover the railroad
and concentrate at Columbia, should he attempt to turn your right flank. . . ."( 2)  I then
telegraphed General Thomas, November 20, pointing out the faulty nature of the position selected
by him for the troops at Pulaski, and the danger that must be incurred in attempting to carry
out his instructions to fight Hood at Pulaski if he should advance upon that place; also suggesting
what seemed to be the best way to avoid that difficulty.  General Thomas very promptly approved
these suggestions, and thus ended the embarrassment occasioned by the faulty instructions.
But his official report on that point has made it necessary for me to comment upon it more
fully later.

The season of Hood's invasion of Tennessee was extremely unfavorable for aggressive operations,
and hence correspondingly favorable for the defense.  The ordinary country roads were almost
impassable, while the turnpikes were in good condition.  As we held the crossing of the Tennessee
River at Decatur, Hood was compelled to cross at the Shoals below, and to advance over those
very bad roads; hence we had ample time in which to make the necessary dispositions to oppose him.

Our cavalry gave us accurate information that the enemy was advancing on the 21st, when Cox,
with Wagner in support, was ordered to interpose between the enemy's cavalry and Columbia;
while Stanley, with two divisions of the Fourth Corps, marched from Pulaski to that place,
and our cavalry moved on the enemy's right to cover the turnpike and railroad.  The whole army
was in position at Columbia, November 24, and began to intrench.  Hood's infantry did not appear
in sight until the 26th.  Cox had a brush with the enemy's cavalry, which had driven in one
of our cavalry brigades. That action was magnified at the time, and afterward, into evidence
of a race between our troops and the enemy for the possession of Columbia.  In fact, Ruger's
troops at Columbia were quite capable of holding that place against Forrest, and Hood's infantry
was not within a day's march of either Cox or Stanley until after both had reached Columbia.

We held our intrenched position in front of Columbia until the evening of November 27, inviting
an attack, and hoping that Thomas would arrive with, or send, reinforcements in time to assume
the offensive from Columbia; but reinforcements did not come, and the enemy did not attack.
It became evident that Hood's intention was not to attack that position, but to turn it by
crossing Duck River above; hence the army was moved to the north bank of the river in the night
of the 27th.  It was still hoped that the line of Duck River might be held until reinforcements
could arrive.  General Thomas was very urgent that this should be done, if possible, as the
arrival of General A. J. Smith's corps from Missouri had been expected daily for some time,
when General Thomas intended, as it was understood, to come to the front in person with that
corps and all the other troops he could assemble in his department, take command, and move
against the enemy.

                                 REASON OF THE DELAY IN EXCHANGING MESSAGES

About that time was disclosed one of those contrivances by which the non-military agencies
of government interfere with the operations of armies.  The War Department telegraph corps
alone was intrusted with the cipher in which General Thomas and I could communicate with each
other by telegraph.  Neither he, nor I, nor any of our staff officers were permitted to know
the telegraph code.  The work was so badly done that from eight to forty-eight hours were occupied
in sending and delivering a despatch.  Finally the cipher-operator attached to my headquarters
in the field deserted his post and went to Franklin, so that the time required for a messenger
to ride from Franklin to my position in the field was added to the delay caused by deciphering
despatches.  From all this it resulted that my superior at Nashville was able to give me little
assistance during the critical days of that campaign.  It has been generally supposed that
I was all that time acting under orders or instructions from General Thomas, and his numerous
despatches have been quoted in "histories" as evidence in support of that supposition.  The
fact is that I was not only without any appropriate orders or instructions nearly all the time,
but also without any timely information from General Thomas to guide my action.

This fact appears to have been fully recognized by General Thomas in his official report, wherein
he made no mention of any orders or instructions given by him during the progress of those
operations, but referred only to "instructions already given" before I went to Pulaski, and
said:  "My plans and wishes were fully explained to General Schofield, and, as subsequent events
will show, properly appreciated and executed by him."( 3)

[( 1) War Records, Vol. XLV.]

[( 2) War Records, Vol. XLV, part I, p. 944.]

[( 3) War Records, Vol.

In the afternoon of November 28 I received information that the enemy's cavalry had forced
the crossing of Duck River above Columbia, and driven our cavalry back; and, about two o'clock
that night, that prisoners reported the enemy laying pontoon bridges, and that Hood's infantry
would begin to cross that morning.  The army was ready to march at a moment's notice.  It could
have retired to Spring Hill or to Franklin without molestation or delay, but that would have
given the enemy the crossing of Duck River at Columbia and the turnpike road for his advance
with his artillery and trains. There was no assurance that Thomas had assembled any of his
expected reinforcements at Nashville or elsewhere.  It was known that orders had been given
some days before looking to concentration of some of the troops in his department somewhere,
but what had been accomplished I was not informed.  About A. J. Smith I was in a like state
of uncertainty.  Only one thing was clear, and that was that I must hold Hood back, if possible,
until informed that Thomas had concentrated his troops; for if I failed in that, Hood would
not only force me back upon Nashville before Thomas was ready to meet him there, but would
get possession of the Chattanooga Railroad, and thus cut off the troops coming to Nashville
from that direction. After considering the matter some time in the night, I decided to hold
on at least until morning.  Early in the morning a brigade of infantry was sent up the river
to reconnoiter and watch the enemy's movements; at the same time Stanley was ordered, with
two divisions of his corps, back to Spring Hill, to occupy and intrench a position there covering
the roads and the trains, which were ordered to be parked at that place, and General Thomas
H. Ruger was ordered to join him.

                                      IMPORTANCE OF GAINING TIME FOR THOMAS

About 8 A. M. on the 29th came a despatch from Thomas, dated 8 P. M. of the day before, conveying
the information that Smith had not arrived, and saying nothing about any other reinforcements,
but expressing the wish that the Duck River position be held until Smith arrived; and another
despatch designating Franklin, behind the Harpeth River, as the place to which I would have
to retire if it became necessary to fall back from Duck River.  I then decided to hold on to
the crossing of Duck River until the night of the 29th, thus gaining twenty-four hours more
for Thomas to concentrate his troops.  I did not apprehend any serious danger at Spring Hill;
for Hood's infantry could not reach that place over a wretched country road much before night,
and Stanley, with one division and our cavalry, could easily beat off Forrest.  Hence I retained
Ruger's division and one of Stanley's, and disposed all the troops to resist any attempt Hood
might make, by marching directly from his bridges upon my position on the north bank of Duck
River, to dislodge me from that position.  That was his best chance of success, but he did
not try it.

Stanley arrived at Spring Hill in time to beat off Forrest and protect our trains.  Then he
intrenched a good position in which to meet Hood's column when it should arrive, which it did
late in the afternoon.  They had a hard fight which lasted until about dark.  Much bitter controversy
arose between Hood and some of his subordinates because of their failure to dislodge Stanley's
division and get possession of the turnpike at Spring Hill.  While I have no wish to take any
part in that discussion, I must say that I think the mistake was Hood's.  I think he attempted
a little longer march, over a very bad road, than could be made in so short a time. The 29th
of November is a very short day, and the march of troops across pontoon bridges and through
deep mud is very slow.  If Hood had turned down the north bank of Duck River, across the fields,
which were no worse than his road, he could have got into a fight about noon; but he thought,
according to his own account in "Advance and Retreat," that he was deceiving me by his thundering
demonstrations at Columbia, and that I did not know he was marching to Spring Hill.  He thought
he was going to "catch me napping," after the tactics of Stonewall Jackson, while in fact I
was watching him all day.  Besides, Hood went to bed that night, while I was in the saddle
all night, directing in person all the important movements of my troops.  Perhaps that is enough
to account for the difference between success and failure, without censuring subordinate commanders.
Mine did all I could have asked anybody to do that night.

                                                  THE AFFAIR AT SPRING HILL

As soon as I was satisfied that Hood was gone to Spring Hill and would not attack me on the
bank of Duck River, I took the head of my troops--Ruger's division--and marched rapidly to
Spring Hill, leaving staff officers to give orders to the other division commanders to follow
immediately in proper order as then formed in line. These orders were somehow misunderstood.
The order of march was reversed, and the troops, except Ruger's, and Whitaker's brigade of
Kimball's division, did not move at once.  But the delay did no harm, and I did not know of
the mistake until several days afterward. If Hood had only known of that mistake, he might
have troubled me no little, perhaps, by pushing a column across from his camp, south of Whitaker's
right flank at Spring Hill, until it reached the Columbia turnpike.  But I had prepared even
for that, as well as I could, by sending a company of infantry to occupy the only cross- road
I could see near Spring Hill as we approached that place.  I ordered the captain of that company
to hold that road at all hazards until he was relieved by my orders!  Some of Hood's troops
"relieved" him next morning!  We have to do cruel things sometimes in war. On arriving at Spring
Hill, Whitaker's brigade was put in line on the right of the troops then in position, so as
to cover the turnpike on which we were marching.  This was about dark.  In a few minutes the
Confederate camp-fires were lighted a few hundred yards in front of that brigade.  It was a
very interesting sight, but I don't think any of Whitaker's men cared to give the Confederates
a similar view of them.

After stopping to see Stanley a few minutes, and learning that some of Forrest's troopers had
been seen at Thompson's Station, three miles farther north, about dusk, I went with Ruger's
division to drive them off and clear the way to Franklin.  To my great surprise, I found only
smouldering fires--no cavalry.  This was where our men passed so close to the "bivouac" that
they "lighted their pipes by the enemy's camp-fires"; and that is the way romance is woven
into history!  But I took it for granted that the famous Forrest must be on my road somewhere;
for he was there in the afternoon, and I had no cavalry anywhere near to drive him away.  I
could not take time to go with or send infantry to find out where he was. But I had with me
my headquarters troop and as gallant an aide-- Captain William J. Twining--as ever wore spur.
Twining was the same gallant and accomplished aide and officer of the corps of engineers, now
dead, who afterward made the famous ride of one hundred and ten miles, through the enemy's
country in North Carolina, to carry a despatch from me to Sherman.  He was a commissioner of
the District of Columbia at the time of his death.  I ordered them to go at full gallop down
the pike to Franklin, and to ride over whatever might be found in their way.  I sat motionless
on my horse at Thompson's Station until the clatter of hoofs on that hard road died out in
the distance, and I knew the road was clear.  I did not tell the brave Twining the object of
that ride, but simply to report the situation to General Thomas by telegraph from Franklin,
and if any troops were at that place, as had been reported, to order them forward at once.
I had not yet determined whether I could continue the retreat that night, or whether it might
be necessary to fight Hood at Spring Hill the next day.  In either case the troops at Franklin,
if any were there, might be useful.

                                             INCIDENTS OF THE NIGHT RETREAT

Upon returning to Spring Hill near midnight, I found my column from Duck River there in compact
order.  As the road was clear and the Confederates all sound asleep, while the Union forces
were all wide awake, there was no apparent reason for not continuing the march that night.
A column of artillery and wagons, and another of infantry, moved side by side along the broad
turnpike, so that if the redoubtable Forrest should wake up and make his appearance anywhere,
he would be quickly brushed away.  It was reported that he did attack somewhere in the night,
but I heard nothing of it at the time, perhaps because I was sleeping quietly on my horse as
we marched along!

I arrived at Franklin with the head of my column a short time before the dawn of day, November
30; indicated to General J. D. Cox, commanding the Twenty-third Corps, the line upon which
the troops were to be formed; and intrusted to him the formation, as the several divisions
of both corps should arrive, General Stanley being in the rear directing the operations of
the rear-guard.  The Twenty-third Corps occupied the center of the line crossing the Columbia
turnpike, and extended to the river on the left, while the Fourth Corps was to extend the line
to the river on the right. Fortunately the natural position was such that Kimball's division
of the Fourth Corps was sufficient, leaving both Wood's and Wagner's in reserve.  I then gave
my undivided attention to the means of crossing the Harpeth River.

Two days before I had telegraphed to General Thomas suggesting that he have a pontoon bridge
laid at Franklin, to which he replied: "You can send some of the pontoons you used at Columbia
to Franklin to lay a bridge there."( 1)  General Thomas or his staff should have known that
it was utterly impossible for me to use the pontoons which I had at Columbia.  Those pontoons
were heavy wooden bateaux, and there were no wagons to transport them, the train that brought
them there having been taken away, it is presumed by his order, certainly not by mine.  Hence
I was compelled to burn that pontoon bridge as well as the railroad bridge (partially) when
my troops retreated from Ducktown.  But even if this were not all true, Thomas knew the enemy
was already crossing Duck River on my flank, and that I must speedily take up a new position
behind the Harpeth, and that I desired him to provide the means for my army to cross that river.
It was a reasonable inference that I should not have asked him to send another bridge if I
already had one that I could use.  Besides, I was commanding General Thomas's army, operating
in his department, wherein I had no control of anything in rear of the troops under my charge.
It was his duty to foresee and provide for all the necessities that might arise in the rear
of the army in the field.  I telegraphed him again for a bridge at the Harpeth on the 29th,
when I found that retreat was inevitable, but he apparently did not get that despatch.  He
nevertheless sent bridge material by rail to Franklin, where it arrived on the morning of November
30, too late for the pontoons to be used, though the flooring was useful in covering the railroad
bridge and the burned wagon-bridge.  I found also on the south side of the river a very large
park of wagons belonging to the Department of the Cumberland, which, as well as my own trains
and artillery, must be crossed over before I could withdraw my troops to the north side.  The
troops were very much fatigued by their long night march, rendering considerable rest indispensable.
Hence there could not be much time in which to prepare defensive works with such obstructions
as to insure successful defense against a very heavy assault.  But, much more serious, Hood
might cross the river above Franklin with a considerable force of infantry, as well as with
all his cavalry, before I could get my materials over and troops enough to meet him on the
north side.  The situation at Franklin had become vastly more serious than that at Columbia
or Spring Hill, and solely because of the neglect of so simple a thing as to provide the bridge
I had asked for across the Harpeth.  If that had been done, my trains could have passed over
at once, and the entire army could have crossed before Hood reached Franklin.

                               THE NECESSITY OF STANDING GROUND AT FRANKLIN

To meet this greatest danger, Wood's division of the Fourth Corps was crossed to the north
side to support the cavalry in holding the fords above, if that should become necessary; while
Wagner's division, which had acted as rear-guard from Spring Hill, was ordered to remain far
enough in front of the line to compel Hood to disclose his intention to attack in front or
to turn the position, and was to retire and take its position in reserve at the proper time,
if the enemy formed for attack.  Only one of those three brigades--Opdycke's--came in at the
proper time and took its appropriate place; and that, it was asserted, and no doubt truly,
was by the brigade commander's own volition, he having been a soldier enough to know his duty
in such a case, without the necessity for any orders.  The other two brigades remained in their
advanced position until they were run over by the enemy.  Much idle controversy was indulged
in among officers of the Fourth Corps and others in respect to the action of those two brigades.
The only proper way to settle such a question was by a court-martial.  As the corps passed
from my command the next morning, and had been under by orders only a few days, I have never
made any effort to fix, even in my own mind, the responsibility for that blunder.

By great exertion on the part of the engineers, the means of crossing the river were at length
provided.  The supports of the burned wagon-bridge were still standing at a level with the
surface of the water.  They were timbered and planked over, and the railroad bridge was also
covered with planking, thus giving us two passable bridges.  The trains had all been crossed
over, and a part of the artillery.  Orders had been issued for the troops to begin crossing
at dark, when Hood disclosed his purpose to attack.  The artillery was ordered back to its
position in line, and General Stanley and I, who were then together on the north side of the
river, rode rapidly to our posts, he to his corps on the south side, and I to the high redoubt
on the north bank, overlooking the entire field.

There I witnessed the grandest display possible in war.  Every battalion and battery of the
Union army in line was distinctly seen.  The corps of the Confederate army which were advancing
or forming for the attack could also be seen, though less clearly on account of their greater
distance, while the Confederate cavalry could be dimly discerned moving to the fords of the
river above Franklin.  Only a momentary view was permitted of this scene of indescribable grandeur
when it was changed into one of most tragic interest and anxiety.  The guns of the redoubt
on the parapet of which I stood with two or three staff officers had fired only a few shots
over the heads of our troops at the advancing enemy when his heavy line overwhelmed Wagner's
two brigades and rapidly followed their fragments in a confused mass over our light intrenchments.
The charging ranks of the enemy, the flying remnants of our broken troops, and the double ranks
of our first line of defense, coming back from the trenches together, produced the momentary
impression of an overwhelming mass of the enemy passing over our parapets.

                                                   HOOD'S FORMIDABLE ATTACK

It is hardly necessary to say that for a moment my "heart sank within me."  But instantly Opdycke's
brigade and the 12th and 16th Kentucky sprang forward, and steadily advanced to the breach.
Up to this moment there had been but little firing at that point, because of our own troops
and the enemy coming in pell-mell; hence there was not much smoke, and the whole could be seen.
But now all became enveloped in a dense mass of smoke, and not a man was visible except the
fragments of the broken brigades and others, afterward known to be prisoners, flocking to the
rear.  A few seconds of suspense and intense anxiety followed, then the space in the rear of
our line became clear of fugitives, and the steady roar of musketry and artillery and the dense
volume of smoke rising along the entire line told me that "the breach is restored, the victory
won"!  That scene, and the emotion of that one moment, were worth all the losses and dangers
of a soldier's lifetime.

It would hardly be possible to frame language that would do more than justice to the magnificent
conduct of Emerson Opdycke's brigade and Laurence H. Rousseau's 12th Kentucky and John S. White's
16th Kentucky, which were also in reserve, and their commanders, in that battle.  Their action
was beyond all praise, and nothing that can justly be said in respect to the battle can detract
one iota from their proud fame.  Yet the light in which the part acted by Opdycke's brigade
(the others not being mentioned) is presented by some "historians," to the prejudice, relatively,
of other portions of the army and of their commanders, is essentially false.  It is represented
as something purely spontaneous, out of the ordinary course, not contemplated in the dispositions
made for battle, unforseen and unexpected; in short, something more--yes, vastly more--than
the reasonable duty of the brigade; or, "beyond all power of generalship to mold the battle
or control its issue, the simple charge of Opdycke's brigade stands in boldest relief."  The
same might be said with equal truth of the action of any brigade upon which devolves the assault
of defense of the key of a military position.  The success or failure of "generalship to mold
the battle or control its issue" depends absolutely upon the action of such brigades, their
doing, or failure to do, the duty belonging to the position to which they are assigned.  Every
soldier in the army knew what his duty was in such a case--knew for what he had been placed
in that position.  It would have been strange indeed if the gallant commander of that brigade
had waited for orders from some higher officer to move "forward to the lines."  As well might
the commander of a brigade in line wait for orders from the general-in- chief before commencing
to fire on the advancing enemy.

The highest tribute that can be paid to Opdycke's brigade is the just and true one, that it
did exactly the duty assigned it in the plan of battle, and did that duty nobly and with complete
success. That other brigades did the same is sufficiently shown by the fact that twenty battle-flags
were captured by a single brigade of the Twenty-third Corps on the same part of the line, and
that the 12th and 16th Kentucky regiments relatively suffered equally heavy losses in killed
and wounded with those of Opdycke.( 2)

                                              SERIOUS ERROR OF TWO BRIGADES

As before stated, the dispositions for defense contemplated the whole of Wagner's division
as the reserve to support the center, that being the only part of the line upon which the enemy
would have time to make a heavy assault that day.  This provision for an ample reserve had
been made after full consideration and before Wood's division was ordered to the north side
of the river, which was after the day was well advanced and the enemy's cavalry had begun to
threaten the crossing above.  The blunder respecting the two brigades of Wagner's division
came near being disastrous, and the repulse of the assault in spite of that blunder makes it
highly probable that if the dispositions ordered had been properly made, the repulse of the
enemy would have been easy beyond reasonable doubt.  Yet it would be difficult to find a fairer
chance of success in a direct assault upon troops in position.  Our intrenchments were of the
slightest kind, and without any considerable obstructions in front to interfere seriously with
the assault.  The attack, no less than the defense, was characterized by incomparable valor,
and the secret of its failure is to be found in one of the principles taught by all military
experience--the great superiority in strength of a fresh body of troops in perfect order over
another in the state of disorder which necessarily results from even the most successful assault.
There was really no comparison, in effective strength, between Opdycke's orderly and compact
brigade and the confused mass of Confederates that were crossing over our parapet. The result
was nothing extraordinary or at all unprecedented.  It was but one of the numerous proofs afforded
by military history of the value of that prudent maxim in the art of war which dictates the
placing of a suitable reserve in close support of that portion of a defensive line which is
liable to heavy assault.

