And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by," and shut the door behind
him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

     "'Ever laughing, ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid that won't be long. If ever there was
a man in immediate danger of apoplexy, Bangs is that man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat down before the fire. He
pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which to rest his feet, which he had comfortably encased
in his slippers. But the shadows in his new room did not please him. He could hardly see the
clock on the mantel. The Madonna above was completely in the shade. So he lighted the chandelier
above and sat down again, hoping that no friend, either of his own or of Mr. Bangs, would interrupt
him. The desk was open at his feet. The package of letters lay near him on the table. He placed
his hand upon them, but let it rest there. The hour had not quite arrived when he would read
them. He fell again into the reveries of the day. He lingered over the thoughts of his better
life ere he opened the packet which told of its end. For the last ten years he had labored
without ambition, and had been successful. His name was well known as a journalist, and his
salary was ample. Before that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for but himself, and then success
had come. Since noon, seven hours and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock before him. His anniversary
was near. Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and untied the package. Just then there came
a knock at his door, and, before he had determined whether or not he should say, "Come in,"
the door opened, and an elderly gentleman stepped into the apartment. Quietly he came in. There
was no sound attending his entrance except the knock. Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw a man of more
than ordinary height, with countenance rigid and puritanical in expression, as though the mind
which had formed it was one influenced more by justice than mercy. His eyes were concealed
by a pair of colored spectacles, but these, as they caught and reflected the light, were brighter
and more startling than any eyes could have been. He was dressed in a long surtout, which he
wore closely buttoned, high dickey, and high black-silk stock, which covered his throat to
his chin. His iron-gray hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward over his forehead, and
his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the generation which wore bell-crowned hats and
carried enormous canes with tassels. But what attracted Mr. Bixby's particular attention were
the wrinkles of his face. These were in all places where wrinkles should not be. One ran straight
through the centre of his forehead, continuing the line of the nose upward to the hair. Two
others, starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally down to the nostrils. He was close-shaven,
and his lips were straight and thin. These peculiarities of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely
time to mark when the gentleman said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired to be alone, and yet there was something in this old
man which so attracted him that he could not correct his mistake. He felt a sudden fascination
and desire to know more of him. Bangs was away and could not be seen. The gentleman could not
be very well acquainted with Bangs, very probably never had seen him, or he would not have
made such an error. But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed from his visitor
could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir. Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other side of the table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of silence. A block of coal broke open in the grate and fell apart. A
jet of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered and went out. Mr. Bixby wondered on what
business he had come, and why he did not open the subject at once, if he was only intending
to stop a moment.

"It is very disagreeable weather out," said the man with the pompous forelock, interrupting
his reflections.

"Snowing?" asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby, who could think of nothing
better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture on his course of life. Why
don't he broach his advice at once?" thought Mr. Bixby. The visitor here pulled a glove from
his right hand, ran his fingers through his hair, and then, in a more business-like tone, spoke
again:

"Although a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs, I have always taken a great interest in
your family. Mr. Bangs, I knew your father."

"Indeed! I never heard him speak--"

"No, I dare say; it was near the end of his life. I was near by, and rendered him some assistance,
when he died suddenly of apoplexy. He was not so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked Mr. Bixby, musingly. He was thinking how old the grandfather of his friend
Bangs must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman; "but even his judgment I never considered equal to that
of your great-grandfather."

"Here is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family. Why is Mr. Bangs away?" thought Mr. Bixby,
and he bent his head a little, and looked under the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor.
He saw only the reflection on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.

"You like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side of the table. "Have
you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand this at all. The question puzzled him. Should he as Bangs fall
in the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his visitor intend to sing?
However, he felt compelled to be frank, so he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the Scotch ballads please me most. There is 'The Land
o' the Leal.'"

"A very fine song, sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to like that song."

The old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just congratulating himself on having given Bangs
a lift, when his thoughts were turned into an altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It was my impression, however, that your taste ran rather in the way of drinking-songs. I
should have thought now you would have said, 'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr. Bixby shudder. It
ran through his mind that this man was some enemy of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled
by this sudden suspicion, tremblingly he again peered under the shade. The wrinkle in the line
of the frontal suture was more deeply indented. The light on the spectacles was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor, Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door,
but he was away."

"Yes," said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed at home, and determined
to end the interview as soon as possible.

"Yes. I am sorry. I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend of his."

"Does he know you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family.
He suffers from the heart-disease, and has been expecting me."

"Oh, you are a physician?"

"Yes, sir. I attended his father at his last illness."

Mr. Bixby's heart began to beat rapidly. His mind became equally active, and, although he had
no experience to be guided by, he began to suspect the nature of this man's business with Bangs.
He almost determined to discover himself, but the letters were yet unread. If that were only
done, he would do anything his visitor might request. Recalling the old gentleman's last words,
he said, at last, calmly:

"And his mother?"

"Yes, and his mother."

The old man's voice assumed almost a kindly tone.

"He is, indeed, a friend of my family," thought Mr. Bixby; and then he started, for fear he
might have spoken aloud.

His eyes fell upon the packet of letters. He must read them. He must end the interview. The
old doctor must have noticed Mr. Bixby's eyes, with the tears rising in them, as he tenderly
touched the letters one by one, for it was with a voice very gentle and low that he spoke again.

"I attended once a very dear friend of his. It must be quite ten years ago now. Her name was
Margaret. I think she loved him, for I remember--yes--it was one Christmas-eve, she said, and
after that she said no more, 'Has Harry come?'"

Mr. Bixby could bear no more. His sobs were striving for utterance. His fingers grasped the
strong oak arms of his chair. It was only the thought of the letters which gave him strength
to say:

"I am sorry, sir. You mistake me. I must ask you to leave me. You may come again. I shall be
here, but I have something I would do to-night. I have given you much of my time. It is already
late."

"It is you who mistake, Mr. Bangs. But I am going now. I said I would stop but a moment. I
have kept my promise, as you will see by your clock."

Before his hands fell listless from the arms of the chair--before his lips parted, but not
for speech--ay, just before that quick, strong pain in his heart, Mr. Bixby saw on the white
dial the black hands yet pointing to the seven hours and the twenty-nine minutes, the pendulum
moveless, still, half-way on the upward journey of the arc.

The elderly gentleman arose, walked round the table, and smiled, himself, as he saw a smile
of perfected happiness on the face of the dead, when so lately sorrow itself had been pictured
on the face of the living.

"It was hard to deceive him, but he will thank me now," said he of the gray locks and wrinkled
visage. "And here are the letters which he does not need."

Had the old man no more appointments to keep? For he took up one of the letters and opened
it. A lock of golden hair fell unnoticed to the floor. Then he read silently, and, after a
while, aloud:

     "I hope you will come and see me on Christmas-eve, for I am
     not well. I long for you more than I can say. You must be
     tired with your struggle in the great city, and need rest. O
     Harry! come and comfort her that loves you, as you well
     know.

                         "MARGARET."

The bells of Trinity commenced ringing.

"He was tired, and he needed rest," said Death.

ELI.

BY C. H. WHITE.

Century Magazine, November, 1881.

"I haven't any reasons, only that I don't believe he's guilty," said Eli. How is it that a
sea-farin' man, that's dyin' to home, will allers die on the ebb-tide?

The impugnment of Eli's motives was evident to all. He hadn't one chance in five, and he was
a married man, too, with small children.

And he stopped suddenly.

"You have certainly explained yourself," said the foreman. "I think we understand you distinctly."

"Oh," said the peddler; "that makes a difference. I understood you did."

Three o'clock came, and brought Mr. Eldridge. And what's more, I'm going to get well now!"

And she did.

YOUNG STRONG OF "THE CLARION."

BY MILICENT WASHBURN SHINN.

Overland Monthly, September, 1884.

If you had asked any resident of Green's Ferry some eight years ago--say, in '76--who were
the leading men of his town, he would doubtless have begun:

"Well, there's Judge Garvey, of course. Then there's Uncle Billy Green, who built the first
shanty there in '49, and young Strong of 'The Clarion'--"

However he might continue his enumeration, it would certainly have been as above for the first
three names. One you would have recognized, if you had been following State politics closely
for some years; for Judge Garvey was very regularly chosen State senator in his district, and
had held the barren honor of presidential elector the last time his party carried the State.
In '76, some of the papers were urging his nomination for Congress, and politicians thought
his chance of such a nomination increasing. It has not turned out so; his name has quite dropped
out of the papers, and it is said he does not certainly control his own county now; but at
that time he was the most potent political influence in three counties. What he influenced
them to, I never clearly understood, for I cannot recall that I ever heard his name mentioned
in connection with any measure or opinion.

A file of "The Clarion" during the four years that young Strong was editor would doubtless
throw light on the matter. "The Clarion" was at this time a sort of voice crying in the wilderness
about Reform, which was a very new idea, indeed, to its readers. Garvey did not like the paper,
and young Strong disliked Garvey very much; but the two men had kept on fairly good terms--not
so rigid good terms, of course, as to forbid their expressing to third parties the frankest
contempt for each other. The Judge had here the advantage, for Strong despised him indignantly,
as a knave, while he despised Strong--or said he did--pityingly, as a fool. He must, however,
have at bottom honored the young fellow with some serious antipathy; for it was after all no
laughing matter that a boy of twenty-five should come into "his Gaul, which he had conquered
by arms," and filch away his home paper from under his very eyes. Moreover, though people read
the editorials, laughed, and voted with the Judge just the same--they still did read them.
However, Judge Garvey certainly was more civil to Strong than Strong was to him.

As for Uncle Billy Green, his rank was due not only to his connection with the "first shanty"
(a house of entertainment at the point where a trail turned from the river toward the mines),
but to his having remained steadily on the spot ever since, putting up a larger building at
intervals as the settlement gathered around him, until now he was proprietor of the American
Eagle Hotel, a house of goodly dimensions and generous equipment--billiard-room, bowling alley,
shooting-gallery. Nor did Uncle Billy Green own and conduct this house in a purely business
spirit; a more modest one would have been more profitable; he liked to "do that much for the
town." A man by the name of Gulliver had established the old rope-ferry, before the day of
bridges, but it was naturally called Green's Ferry, being a ferry at Green's place. He had
been of an undoubted valor in the Indian fights of early days, was full of reminiscences, had
no personal objections to anybody or anything, and had long given over to Judge Garvey the
trouble of forming his opinions.

Judge Garvey and young Strong were pretty sure to be put upon such boards or committees as
the local affairs of the small town demanded; and in local matters they proved to pull together
fairly well, however at odds they were politically. But in the end it was not over politics,
but over the district school, that they fell out squarely. They were both trustees, and as
Green was the third, the board seemed in little danger from any too radical reforming tendencies
young Strong might be guilty of, and the Judge had no thought of danger as he walked down to
"The Clarion" office, a breathless September afternoon, a couple of days before the school
should open.

He found young Strong in his editorial room. This was a corner of the printing-office, fenced
off by a great screen pasted over with old exchanges. Behind this, Strong sat at his table,
correcting proof energetically. It was evident that he took the editing of this little four-page
weekly rather seriously--but, then, a man must needs be business-like to produce even four
pages weekly with one assistant, and Strong had to economize time enough from strictly editorial
functions to do a goodly share of type-setting and the rest of the mechanics of the office.

"I beg your pardon for interrupting you, Mr. Strong," said the Judge. "I perceive you are arduously
occupied. But it becomes necessary to confer with you with regard to the school-teacher."

The Judge was a tall and vigorously built man--a little red-faced, but good-looking, if one
did not insist on too fine a definiteness of outline. He spoke habitually with a certain inflation
of manner, and tried to form himself upon a Southern type that was pretty abundant in our politics
some years earlier. He was, however, a native of rural New York, early transplanted to California.

Strong turned in his chair, and sitting sidewise, rested his elbow on the proof-sheets, holding
the pencil still in his fingers.

"Well?" he said. "I thought everything was settled."

"Assuredly." Judge Garvey rested his folded arms upon the pile of books stacked at the rear
of the table, and leaned over them in a friendly way. "Mr. Coakley is to arrive Sunday evening,
and will begin the term on Monday morning, to the great satisfaction, I can guarantee, of all
concerned. A slight and merely temporary embarrassment has arisen, with respect to which a
few words will make it all right. In point of fact, the young woman with whom we previously
held correspondence--who, you will remember, broke her engagement with us to take a more advantageous
position--is here."

The Judge stopped for question or comment, but as Strong waited for explanation, he went on:

"She has, it appears, failed after all to secure that, and come here expecting to fall back
upon our school, not having heard that it was engaged."

"Well, that's unfortunate for her," said Strong, "but you can't ship Coakley now."

"Your views coincide exactly with my own, my dear sir." The Judge straightened up with some
relief. "I have only to ask, then, for a note to the lady to that effect, that my own explanation
already given may be corroborated."

Strong began to look alert and suspicious at this.

"Views coincide?" he said. "What two views could there be? What does she say brought her here?"

"She's got an idea that she's got first claim on the place," said the Judge, plumping suddenly
into colloquial diction. He had a trick of doing so when he got down to business. It would
have had something the effect of candid confession, produced by a maiden's plain-hair days
alternated with her waved-hair days, had not the grandiloquence of tone and manner become so
far second nature that it ran through both his dialects, and lessened the contrast. "You can't
always make a woman see sense."

Strong looked suspiciously at him a few seconds. "Well, I'll go see her this evening," he said.
"Where's she staying?"

"That is a totally superfluous tax on your time, my dear Strong," said the Judge, leaning persuasively
across the books again. "I have here a mere formal line, stating that Coakley is the regularly
engaged teacher of the school, and will begin next Monday; your signature to it--Green's and
mine are already there--will be all that is necessary." He pushed pen and ink toward Strong
with his exaggerated air of courtesy.

"Oh, I'm not going to sign things that way, you know. I'll go see her." He turned and drew
his proof-sheets to him with an air of dismissal.

The Judge stood up very straight, expanded his chest, and folded his arms according to his
conception of the Virginian manner. "Am I to understand, sir, that you question my veracity?"

"I don't question anything," said the young man, impatiently. "I'll know what I'm talking about
when I've seen her."

"Permit me to suggest, sir"--the Judge was approaching his platform manner--"permit me to suggest,
sir, that Mr. Green and myself constitute a majority of the board, and Mr. Green, sir--Uncle
Billy Green--has confidence in my honor, and will sustain my action, whatever line you may
be persuaded to adopt."

"Oh, as to that," said Strong, exaggerating his crispness of manner in protest against the
Judge's staginess, "I'm clerk of the board, and you can't hold a legal meeting nor pay a salary
without me. What's the reason you don't want me to see her?"

Judge Garvey unfolded his arms, fell back a step, and dropped easily into the sonorous declamation
that made the stalwart Judge no inconspicuous figure on the floor of the Legislature. The newspapers,
of course, were responsible for his language--as for the rest of his education; but such as
it was, he used it fluently, and the declamatory manner was, to his constituency, quite an
essential of eloquence--the prime difference, in fact, between oratory and plain talking.

"You cast aspersions upon my honor, sir. Through me you insult the people of Green's Ferry--of
this county--of this district--the enlightened and honorable constituency who it is my proud
honor to represent. I sco-r-n to answer your insinuations, sir. They will be hurled back upon
yourself by the united voice and righteous indignation of my justly aroused fellow-townsmen,
by the voters of this noble district--I may say, by the whole State of California--to which
I am not unknown, sir."

Half-a-dozen of the justly aroused fellow-townsmen were straggling in from the street, for
in Green's Ferry a sprinkling of the citizens spend the warm afternoons sitting in absolute
tranquillity on boxes and barrels here and there, under the awnings of the several business
blocks; and the knowledge that a row was at last on between Judge Garvey and young Strong reached
them at the first peal. The Judge, alive to the increase of his audience, raised his voice
a shade, and went on with a curious mixture of complacency and genuine wrath.

"Is it lack of confidence that has sent me to represent my honorable constituency in the legislative
halls of California, Mr. Strong? Have I received that proud token of esteem only to be insulted
by one whose obscurity is his only shield; who, with unknown record, with no recommendation
save his own overwhelming self-esteem, comes among us to sow dissent in peaceful counsels,
and draw scorn and contempt upon his own head by impotent and futile attacks upon those whom
he is powerless to harm?"

This rounded the climax well, so the Judge only added: "The call you propose, sir, I shall
regard as a direct insult to myself," and strode dramatically from the room.

The papered screen went crashing to the floor behind him. The justly aroused fellow-townsmen
looked after him, laughing but admiring.

"Laid you out, didn't he, Strong?"

"That's the way he does it at Sacramento. Oh, the Judge is a real orator--there's no doubt
of that."

"He don't have to make his speech up before-hand. No, sir, right where he is, any time of day,
he just turns the faucet, and there it comes."

"What was the row, anyway, Strong?"

"I don't know myself; something about a teacher--he began to bluster all of a sudden." Strong
walked over to the screen, picked it up, set it straight along a crack with intense precision,
and went back to his seat. "Drunk, isn't he? I haven't heard him take the stump that way since
election. He's always made rather a point of not quarrelling with me, too."

"Oh, he's no drunker'n usual," answered with candor a fellow-townsman. "The Judge ain't really
himself until he's a little off. He didn't blow so without some reason; don't you fool yourself--not
if I know the man."

"Well, if he's got any game he must have come to his last chance in it, to try bullying on
me," said Strong; and then another of the group asked:

"What row could there be about a teacher, Strong? Thought you'd given him his man."

The pencil rolled from the edge of the table across the floor at Strong's movement of attention.
"Coakley?--what of him?"

The man began to laugh, and one or two others joined in. One of them said a little offensively:
"Pretty good on you, youngster! You took too big a contract for your age when you undertook
to keep up with Judge Garvey. He'll give you odds and take you in, every time."

Strong reddened a little, but waited to be answered with very fair composure.

"Didn't you really know, Strong? The Judge scored one on you that time, then. Why, he's been
Garvey's man in Sierra Township one or two elections now. Used to be a Millerite preacher,
before your day, but he broke down at that. Good hand in county politics, but he's always completely
out of business between times. Why you remember him, Strong--he was round with the Judge election
times--cross-eyed fellow, with black siders."

"That fellow? Why, he can't spell straight! The way of it was, Judge Garvey told us only Tuesday
that the teacher we'd got--first-rate certificates--had backed out; and we couldn't put off
beginning school any longer, nor hear of any teacher to be had; so when he produced this man,
we had really no choice. I suppose I needn't ask where he got his certificates."

"No--Garvey's solid with this county board and superintendent."

"Disgraceful!" said Strong; whereat all laughed, except one who had lost a ranch a few years
before during business dealings with the Judge.

"Oh, he's a scamp--I wouldn't trust him out of sight with his baby's silver mug," said this
man, with feeling. The rest laughed again. In Green's Ferry a certain easy-going good-heartedness
is required by the public conscience, rather than decalogue virtues. Garvey liked sharp practice--all
right; if you were yourself hurt, you would naturally begin to vote against him; otherwise,
it was none of your business, except as successful rascality had a claim on your admiration.
Young Strong liked to write furious reform editorials--all right; if you were the one hit,
you would swear at Strong and stop your subscription until a hit on some one else made you
renew it; otherwise, it was none of your business and lively reading. They leaned against the
wall and desk, and began with perfect good-nature to tell stories of the Judge. "R'member the
time he got that Mexican ranch? Fellow thought it was a bill of sale for thirty acres he was
signing, and it was three hundred."

"Best thing was when he made old man Meeker believe he was dying, and deed over a good fifty
thousand dollars in stock to his daughter--and married the girl, sir, before the old fellow
found he was good for twenty years more. He made the air smell of brimstone the rest of his
life if you mentioned Garvey to him! Drowned in a ford a winter or two later, after all. Used
to live in a little shanty up Indian Crick and raise potatoes--and Garvey sent him a cow--cheekiest
thing!"

