    "Histoire du Vieux et du Nouveau Testament (par Dav. Martin), enrichie
    de plus de 400 fig. Anvers (Antwerp), P. Mortier, 1700, 2 vol. gr. in
    fol."

This work is usually called Bible de Mortier. It is not a difficult book to be met with, but
the price varies considerably according to the state of the plates.

H. F.

Mr. Gough's Translation of the History of the Bible (Vol. iii., p. 100.).--A friend has furnished
me with the following extract from the Manuel du Libraire of M. J. C. Brunet in reply to my
inquiry who was the author of the original history. It is taken from tom. i. p. 544.

M. Brunet informs us that copies of these volumes are valued by the state of the plates; one
of which, in the Apocalypse, having been broken, was mended with nails, which marked the impression,
and gave the distinction of copies before or with the nails.

As there can be no doubt but that most booksellers take in your useful publication, one of
them may be induced to inform the undersigned if he has a copy for sale, and the price.

J. M. GUTCH.

  Worcester.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Origin of Harlequins.--In a note to his translation of Priscus' "History of the Embassy sent
to Attila by Theodosius the Younger" (Hist. Civiliz. app. iii. vol. ii. p. 430., Bogue's edit.
European Library), M. Guizot remarks, alluding to the appearance of Zercho, a Moor, at Attila's
feast:

    "Is it not singular to find an harlequin at the court of Attila? Yet
    such is the origin of these buffoons. The colour of the black slaves,
    the strangeness of their face and manners, caused them to be sought
    after as excellent ministers of mirth; to complete the singularity,
    Zercho asks his wife at the hands of Attila, closely paralleling
    Harlequin demanding Columbine."

Is this account of the origin of Harlequins generally acquiesced in? I should be obliged by
any early notice of the character of Harlequin, and his introduction on the English or any
foreign stage.

E. L. N.

Monosyllables.--Among the many correspondents who have sent you specimens of monosyllabic poetry,
I have seen no one who has quoted this very singular passage from Phineas Fletcher's Purple
Island. It is far more striking than anything you have yet inserted on this subject.

              Canto I. Stanza 7.
 "New light new love, new love new life hath bred;
      A life that lives by love, and loves by light;
    A love to Him to whom all loves are wed;
      A light to whom the sun is darkest night:
    Eye's light, heart's love, soul's only life He is;
    Life, soul, love, heart, light, eye, and all are His;
  He eye, light, heart, love, soul; He all my joy and bliss."

In seventy words only one of more than a syllable; the alliteration in the second line is likewise
noticeable.

H. A. B.

  Trin. Col., Cambridge.

The Breeches, or Geneva Bible (Vol. iii, p. 17.).--I have before me a copy of Christopher Barkar's
edition of the "Breeches" Bible, 1576, small folio, in which, on the fly-leaf, is the following
interesting note in the handwriting of the late Francis Douce:--

    "It is generally conceived that the peculiarity, 'and they sewed fig
    tree leaves together, and made themselves breeches,' belongs
    exclusively to this Bible, but it is a mistake. The Saxon version of
    Ælfric has, {166} 'and sewed fig-leaves, and worked them WEED-BREECH,
    or cloaths for the breech.' Wicliffe also translates 'and maden hem
    breechis;' and it is singular that Littleton, in his excellent
    Dictionary, explains perizomata, the word used in the Vulgate, by
    breeches. In the manuscript French translation of Petrus Comestor's
    Commentary on the Bible, made by Guiars des Moulins in the 13th
    century, we have 'Couvertures tout autres-sint comme unnes petites
    braies.'"

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Etymology of Mushroom.--In the sixteenth century this word appears generally to have been spelt
Mushrump. Nares, in his valuable Glossary, gives an instance from Marlow's play of Edward the
Second, 1598; but there is an earlier example in Robert Southwell's Spirituall Poems, 1595:

 "He that high growth on cedars did bestow,
  Gave also lowly mushrumps leave to growe."

It is also spelt Mushrump in Cockeram's Dictionary, 1632. These instances may possibly lead
to a correct etymology of the word.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Curious Fact in Natural History.--There is in the Brazils a popular superstition to this effect.
There is a tree called Japécarga, which is said to grow out of the body of the insect called
Cigara. This is a very large tree, and the Cigara is an insect which makes an incessant chirping
on the tree, and, as the saying goes, chirps till it bursts. When the insect dies, the tree
is said to grow out of it, the roots growing down the legs. My explanation is this: The insect
feeds on the seeds of the Japécarga, and occasionally, under advantageous circumstances, some
of the seeds germinate, and cause the death of the insect, the tree shooting up through the
softest part, the back, and the rootlets making their way down the only outlets, the legs.
I wish to know whether any similar fact in Natural History has been noticed, and if not, how
is it accounted for, since I can vouch for the skin of the insect having been found with the
tree growing out of its back, and the roots growing down through the legs.

JOHN MANLEY.

  Pernambuco.

Hudibras in 1710.--On the back of the oldest register of the parish of Syston, Leicestershire,
is the following memorandum:--

    "July 19th, 1710. Borrow'd then of Mr. Hesketh Hudibrass in 3 parts,
    w^{ch} I promise to return upon demand; witness my hand,   JOHN KILBY."

A pretty strong proof of the value and interest of this work about a century and a half ago.

ARUN.

The Great Exhibition.--It is well known that the vineyards of Switzerland have been long protected
from hail by means of upright poles having copper wire attached to them, termed "paragrêles,"
distant from each other from 60 to 100 feet. The formation of hail is an effect of which electricity
is the cause, and the cloud being deprived of this agent by the conductors, descends in the
shape of rain. Mr. John Murray, F.S.A., F.L.S., &c., in his work on Switzerland, speaks very
decidedly of their utility. Has then this ingenious contrivance been considered with reference
to the protection of the Great Exhibition and its valuable, or rather invaluable, contents?
or why is it deemed inapplicable to the purpose?

C. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

THE TEN COMMANDMENTS.

Everybody can see that the first commandment is directed against polytheism, and the second
against idolatry; and most people know that the Church of Rome differs from the Church of England
in joining these two into one commandment, and dividing the tenth into two commandments, so
as to make up the full number, ten. This point of difference betwixt the two churches must
necessarily have been the subject of much dispute. There must be plausible reasons on both
sides for every commandment in the Anglican ritual being different from its correspondent on
the Roman tables: and the settlement of this question must properly belong to the theologian,
since holy scripture only mentions how many divine commandments there are (Exodus, xxxiv. 28.;
Deuteronomy, iv. 13., x. 4.), without authoritatively separating them.

Will any one kindly inform me where this question may be found fully discussed; and where mention
is made of the earliest known divisions of the law? Also, I should be glad to know how the
Jews at the present day divide the commandments; and whether there is any record or tradition
of there ever having been discussions in their church upon this very interesting and no less
important matter?

ALFRED GATTY.

  Ecclesfield.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Was Hugh Peters ever on the Stage?--In a pamphlet entitled Arbitrary Government displayed to
the Life, in the illegal Transactions of the late Times under the tyrannick Usurpation of Oliver
Cromwell, ed. 1690, p. 98., we are informed that Hugh Peters, after he had been expelled the
University of Cambridge, went to London, and enrolled himself as player in Shakspeare's company,
"in which he usually performed the part of Clown." Is there any other authority for this statement?

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

English Synonymes.--What are the books of best authority for the synonymes of the English language?

A FOREIGNER.

{167}

Christmas Day.--Which of the popes fixed dogmatically the 25th of December as the birthday
of our Saviour? Was it not either Julius I. or II.? and what grounds had he for his decision?

J. C.

A Coggeshall Job.--"Saffron Walden, God help me."--Has the old saying of "A Coggeshall Job"
occupied the attention of your readers? And why is it that many of the mendicants who ramble
the county of Suffolk in search of relief, when asked where they come from, reply in a pitiful
tone, "Saffron Walden, God help me."

J. C.

  Easton.

T. Gilburt on Clandestine Marriages.--I have a MS. against the validity of clandestine marriages,
dated from Oxford, June 23rd, 1682, signed T. Gilburt. It is a learned and argumentative treatise
on this subject. It is entitled:

    "An Argument against the Validitie of Clandestine Marriages in the
    Sight of God. Sent with a Letter to a person of Qualitie desiring my
    Judgment in y^e case wherein he was too nearly concerned."

I am anxious to know who this T. Gilburt may have been.

W. F.

Father Hehl, and Cahagnet.--If any of your numerous readers can say where any account of Father
Hehl, who in 1774 discovered animal magnetism, may be found; and whether such a person as M.
L. Alph. Cahagnet is living in Paris or elsewhere, whether he is a doctor or pharmacien, what
his age may be, and whether the persons whose letters are given in his book, Arcanes de la
Vie future dévoilés, are real or imaginary beings, they will greatly comfort

ENGASTRIMYTHUS.

Roman Catholic Bishops in Ireland.--Can any of your readers refer me to any printed or manuscript
account of the appointment of Roman Catholic bishops in Ireland by the Stuart family subsequent
to the death of James II., containing names, dates, &c.?

DRUMLETHGLAS.

Derivation of the Word Fib.--Can any of your readers suggest a proper derivation of this word?
Old Bailey, to whom a reference would occasionally save many doubts and inquiries, connects
it with "fable." Johnson says nothing as to the etymology, but explains it as "a cant word
among children;" while, at the same time, he inserts it on the authority of Pope and Arbuthnot.

In reading the works of that very learned and instructive author, Samuel Werenfels, I was struck
with a passage in his Diatribe de Meteoris, p. 272. (Amstel. Wetstein, 1702), which seemed
to furnish a probable solution of the question:--"Propter abusum nominis Phoebi evenit, ut
omnes qui, altius in oratione, quam decet, se extollere volunt, Gallis hodiernis [Greek: phoibologein]
Phoebum loqui, Parler Phebus, dicantur." So far as the sound is concerned, this seems a nearer
approximation to "fib" than the word "fable." The sense, too, is not very remote from the accepted
one of "talking fibs." Query, as to this conjecture?

C. H. P.

  Brighton, Feb. 10. 1851.

Thomas May, the Author of the Supplement to Lucan.--Who was this Thomas May? To an Elzevir
edition of Lucan, 1658, Amsterdam, "accuranto Cornelio Schrevelio," there is added "Supplementum
Lucani Libri Septem; authore Thoma Maio, Anglo." In the preface it is stated, "Supplementum
Lucani ab Anglo quodam antehâc seorsim editum, et huic materiæ aptissimum adjunximus, ne quid
esset quod hic desideraretur." In the fourth book of this Supplement, Cato is represented as
soliloquising before his death as follows:--

 "Quam diversa, inquit, restant post funera sortes!
  Credo equidem, divine Plato, te dogmata vera
  Hæc ipsum docuisse Deum. Deus ipse sequendam
  (Aut Natura homines ratioque innata fefellit)
  Proposuit virtutem, et præmia debita justis
  Hæc quonian justos injusta potentia fraudat
  Sæpius in terris, et gens humana rebellat
  Solvere post mortem justissimus ipse tenetur."

The famous soliloquy in Addison's Cato seems to resemble this, in its general tone of thought.
In a former passage occur these lines:--

             "Solatia sola hæc,
  Quod meliore frui post mortem lumine sperat.
  Immortalem animam spes hæc probat."

The idea is similar to that contained in--

 "Else whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire,
  This longing after immortality?"

Addison seems to me to have had May's description of Cato's death in his mind, when he wrote
the soliloquy.

J. H. L.

Bunting's Irish Melodies.--This admirable musical scholar many years since promised a new edition
of the first two volumes of his Irish Airs. Is there any hope of this being soon accomplished?

GEORGE STEPHENS.

  Stockholm.

Rudbeck, Campi Elysii.--A copy of this work is said to exist in Sherard's[6] Collection, in
the Botanical Garden, Oxford. It must have been acquired before 1797. (See Bibliotheca Banksiana,
iii. 67.)

Vol. I.--The title and some following leaves are written. Does any note exist as to who copied
these leaves, or when, or where?

Is any name of any former owner written on the book-back, title, or elsewhere; or is it known
when it was purchased, or at what price?

{168} Does any library-mark, auction-number, or other identifying signature occur?

Is it quite complete at the end, or is anything missing after page 224.?

Does the whole consist of figures, or have some leaves an introduction, text, or corrections, &c.?

Vol. II.--Does anything in this volume illustrate any of the above questions?

A SWEDISH BIBLIOGNOST.

  Stockholm.

[Footnote 6: Sherard, 1738.]

Prince of Wales' Motto (Vol. iii., p. 106.).--The Query of EFFESSA is one of great interest
to us "Taffies," but I wish to add the following to it. Is there any foundation for the idea,
which we so strenuously maintain, that "Ich Dien" is a misspelled edition of "Eich Dyn," "Behold
the man:" and that the motto was bestowed on Edward of Carnarvon in consequence of his royal
father having learned these two Welsh words, and made use of them when he presented his infant
to the assembled tribes as a prince who could "speak no word of English?"

SELEUCUS.

Borrow's Danish Ballads.--The singular author of Lavengro, Mr. Geo. Borrow, some years ago
published certain translations of Danish or other northern ballads, with which I have never
been able to meet. Can you or any of your readers furnish me with the title of the book and
publisher's name?

My curiosity respecting it has again been aroused somewhat strongly by the account in Lavengro
of the way in which he began to study Danish. It might afford a good lesson to all young "philologers."

I presume that, at the mature age of "NOTES AND QUERIES," commonplace compliments as to its
usefulness and high general value, begin to be very stale; but I cannot close without a hearty
"God speed" to you in your labours.

BRUNO.

Head of the Saviour.--Can any of your readers give me some information about an engraving of
our Saviour, which may just now be seen in many of the London print-shops? It represents the
side-face, and is said to be a fac-simile of a likeness engraved on an emerald by order of
some Roman Emperor, and which served as the ransom of some other famous person (who, I quite
forget). Is this really the truth?

P. M. M.

Lines on English History.--The Sword Flamberg.--I shall be greatly obliged to any of your correspondents
who can inform me where I can procure a copy of some lines on English history, commencing:

 "William the Norman conquers England's state--
  In his own forest Rufus meets his fate," &c.

They are said to be written by a Roman Catholic gentleman named Chaloner.

I also wish to know something about the old German sword called the "Flamberg." I have seen
it represented as twisted like a column of flame, and should like to know its history, and
whether there was any allusion in it to the flaming sword that kept the gate of Paradise.

Mention is made of it by Körner in his poem, "Männer und Buben:"

         "Stosst mit an
          Mann für Mann
  Wer den Flamberg schwingen kann."

Can your correspondents tell me, also, whether there is such a phrase, expressive of the place
where four roads met, as a "four warnt way," and whence its origin, and how properly spelt?

AN ENGLISH MOTHER.

Denarius Philosophorum.--Can you inform me what the inscription "Denarius Philosophorum" means,
on Bishop Thornborough's monument in Worcester Cathedral?

D. Y.

"Sees Good in everything."--Where does the line,

 "Sees good in everything, and God in all."

come from?

D. Y.

  Christchurch, Oxford.

Oxford Friar's Voyage to the North Pole.--In a book I have, entitled Prospects of the most
famous Parts of the World, date 1646, occurs the following:

    "Towards the north pole we have gained, more in proportion, as far as
    Nova Zembla, and the sea is known to be navigable to the 81st degree:
    whether the rest be land or not it never yet appeared to any (as I
    heare of) but an Oxford Friar by a Magique voyage. He reports of a
    Black Rock just under the pole, and an Isle of Pygmies; other strange
    miracles, to which, for my part, I shall give little credit till I have
    better proof for it than the Devil's word."

Query, Who was the friar? and where is the account of his voyage to be found?

J. Y. R.

Roman Catholic Church.--The Rev. J. M. Neale has just published an appendix to his Introduction
to the History of the Holy Eastern Church, containing a list of all the sees in that communion,
with the names of the present possessors. Can any of your correspondents inform me where I
can meet with a similar notitia of the sees in the Roman Catholic Church?

E. H. A.

    [The Almanach du Clergé de France contains a catalogue of Roman
    Catholic bishops throughout the world, complied from documents
    furnished by the Congregation De Propaganda Fide of Rome.]

Cor Linguæ.--May I ask who is the author of the following epigram, quoted by Coke on the trial
of Garnet?

 "Cor linguæ foederat naturæ sanctio,
  Veluti in quodam certo connubio;
  Ergo cum dissonent cor et locutio,
  Sermo concipitur in adulterio."

J. BS.

{169}

Bishop Hooper's Godly Confession, &c.--Being engaged in editing Bishop Hooper's works, and
finding myself impeded by want of the original edition of his Godly Confession and Protestation
of the Christian Faith, printed at London by John Day, 1550, I am induced to seek your assistance,
and to ask whether you can inform me where a copy of the above work may be found?

(THE REV.) CHARLES NEVINSON.

  Browne's Hospital, Stamford.

Extradition, Ignore, Diamagnetism.--In pursuance of my note to you regarding the definition
of words in science and literature which may have sprung up of late years, will you allow me
to quote, as instances in the latter department, the two words "extradition" and "ignore?"

1. Is the following a correct definition of "extradition," viz., "the surrender by a state,
of a political refugee, at the request of a foreign power?"

2. Is the etymology of the word made up of "extra" and "ditio" put for "deditio," a giving
up or surrendering?

Does "ignore" mean to "treat as non-existent;" and are there no other words in the language
which express exactly the meaning conveyed by these two?

In science, I would ask, is "diamagnetism" correctly explained by terming it "the property
of any substance whereby it turns itself, when freely suspended, at right angles to the magnetic
meridian."

P. S.

Cinquante Lettres d'Exhortation.--Can any of your readers inform me who is the author of the
following work?--

    "Cinquante lettres d'exhortation et de consolation sur les souffrances
    de ces derniers tems, et sur quelques autres sujets; écrites à diverses
    personnes par Mons. D. V. B. pendant ses exils et ses prisons, en
    France; et depuis que par ordre du Roi, il s'est retiré en Hollande. La
    Haye, 1704, 8vo."

The copy which I have seen is lettered on the back "Beringke-Lettres;" but I can find no account
of any person of that name at all likely to have written the letters, nor any authority for
ascribing their authorship to a person of that name.

TYRO.

  Dublin. Lond. 1688."

Wishing to procure a copy, I have asked several booksellers, but without success. It has been
most strongly recommended by a writer of the present day.

ABHBA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

CARDINAL'S MONUMENT.

(Vol. iii., p. 106.)

Your correspondent and querist, J. D. A., asks for some information respecting the coat of
arms surmounted by a cardinal's hat, sculptured and affixed to one of the pillars of the south
transept in St. Saviour's Church, Southwark. I send in reply an extract from a now scarce book,
Arthur Tiler's History and Antiquities of St. Saviour's, 1765, with which all the later historians
of the church agree:--

    "Anno 1400.   2 Hen. IV.

    "The whole church was new built about this time; Henry Beaufort (second
    son of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, son of Edward III.), Cardinal
    of St. Eusebius, and Bishop of Winchester from the year 1405 to the
    time of his death in 1447, might have contributed towards the building,
    being a man of great wealth, for which he was called the rich Cardinal,
    as the arms of the Beauforts are carved in stone on a pillar in the
    south cross aisle; and by the remaining sculpture on each side it
    appears to be done for strings pendant from a Cardinal's hat placed
    over them. The arms are quarterly France and England, a border compone
    argent and azure."

When the transepts were rebuilt, some years since, the cardinal's hat, which till that time
was nearly defaced, was then restored, and the coat of arms newly emblazoned.

W. B.

  19. Winchester Place, St. Saviour's, Southwark.

    [G. A. S. and JAMES H. SMITH have forwarded similar replies.]

With reference to the Query of J. D. A. (p. 106. antè), it would appear that the cardinal's
hat, but with a difference in the number of rows of tassels, is sometimes seen on the monuments
of men who never were raised to that dignity.

In the Cathedral of St. Canice, Kilkenny, are two monuments placed there during the rule of
the Confederate Catholics, viz., that of James Cleere, "Protonotarius et Rector ecclesiæ D.
Joannis Dioecesis oporiensis," who died A.D. 1643, Nov. 14; and David Rothe, intrusive Roman
Catholic Bishop of Ossery, who died some years after--on both of which the arms of the individual
are surmounted by a cardinal's hat. It is quite certain that neither of these ecclesiastics
had a right to this distinction as cardinals. For the right of Bishops and Prothonotaries to
wear hats or caps of the same shape as the cardinals, with their colours and peculiarities,
see Glossary of Heraldry (Oxford), under "Cap-Cardinals." Any further examples will oblige

J. GRAVES.

  Kilkenny, Feb. 10. 1851.

The Cardinal's hat, with arms beneath, on a pillar near the poet Gower's monument, in St. Saviour's,
Southwark, refers directly to the beneficence of that busy cardinal and very remarkable man,
{170} Cardinal Beaufort, Bishop of Winchester, and who in that capacity resided in the adjoining
palace; indirectly it refers to the marriage of James V. of Scotland with Jane Beaufort, the
Cardinal's niece: and it is something to the honour of St. Mary Overies, (the church in question,)
to add that it was within its walls that the ceremony took place. Besides Gower, the parish
registers state that Edmond Shakspeare ob. 1607 (one of the brothers of the great dramatist),
John Fletcher ob. 1625, and Philip Massinger ob. 1640. (See Mr. Knight's Old England, eng.
548. p. 147.)

BLOWEN.

A cardinal's hat is differenced by colour and the number of its tassels, not by its shape,
which is the same for all clergymen. Thus, for simple priests, a black hat, with one tassel
on either side; for a bishop, a green hat with three tassels; for a cardinal, a crimson hat
with five or seven tassels. What the reason may be for the variation in the number of the tassels
amongst cardinals, I should be glad to learn.

W. D-N.

In Ciaconius (Vitæ et Res Gestæ Pontificum, Rome, 1630), there is a list of all the cardinals
created up to that date, with their armorial bearings; and the only instances of France and
England quarterly (which is, no doubt, what is intended), are those of Cardinal Beaufort, Bishop
of Winchester, and Cardinal Hallum, Bishop of Salisbury. I can find no mention anywhere of
the family of Cardinal Hallum, or Hallam; and should be glad to know who he was descended from,
and why he had those arms assigned to him by Ciaconius, who is tolerably correct.

A. W. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOTY'S CASE.

(Vol. iii., p. 40.)

I cannot refer DEMONOLOGIST to an authentic report of Booty's case, but I believe none is more
so, than that in Kirby's Wonderful and Eccentric Museum, vol. ii. p. 247.

The following extract is given from the journal of Mr. Spinks:--

    "Friday, 15th May, 1687. We had the observation of Mr. Booty this day.
    Captain Barrisby, Captain Bristowe, Captain Brown, I, and Mr. Ball,
    merchant, went on shore in Captain Barnaby's boat, to shoot rabbits
    upon Stromboli; and when we had done we called all our men together by
    us, and about half an hour and fourteen minutes after three in the
    afternoon, to our great surprise, we all of us saw two men come running
    towards us with such swiftness that no living man could run half so
    fast as they did run, when all of us heard Captain Barnaby say, 'Lord
    bless me, the foremost is old Booty, my next-door neighbour;' but he
    said he did not know the other that run behind: he was in black
    clothes, and the foremost was in grey. Then Captain Barnaby desired all
    of us to take an account of the time, and put it down in our
    pocket-books, and when we got on board we wrote it in our journals; for
    we saw them into the flames of fire, and there was a great noise which
    greatly affrighted us all; for we none of us ever saw or heard the like
    before. Captain Barnaby said he was certain it was old Booty, which he
    saw running over Stromboli and into the flames of Hell. It is stated
    that Captain Barnaby told his wife, and she told somebody else, and
    that it was afterward told to Mrs. Booty, who arrested Captain Barnaby
    in a thousand pound action, for what he had said of her husband.
    Captain Barnaby gave bail to it, and it came on to a trial in the Court
    of King's Bench, and they had Mr. Booty's wearing apparel brought into
    court, and the sexton of the parish, and the people that were with him
    when he died; and we swore to our journals, and it came to the same
    time within two minutes; ten of our men swore to the buttons on his
    coat, and that they were covered with the same sort of cloth his coat
    was made of, and so it proved. The jury asked Mr. Spinks if he knew Mr.
    Booty. He answered, 'I never saw him till he ran by me on the burning
    mountain.'"

The chief justice from April, 1687, to February, 1689, was Sir Robert Wright. His name is not
given in the report, but the judge said--

    "Lord have mercy upon me, and grant that I may never see what you have
    seen: one, two, or three may be mistaken, but thirty never can be
    mistaken. So the widow lost her suit."

An action for slander of a deceased husband, brought by the widow, and the defendant held to
bail, is a remarkable beginning. The plea of justification, that Booty ran into Hell, is hardly
supported by evidence that he ran into the flames at Stromboli. The evidence was, that the
defendant said that one of the two runners was Booty; it does not appear that the other witnesses
knew him. The witnesses must have kept a good look to observe the buttons of Booty's coat when
he ran more than twice as fast as any living man could run. Finally, as the time of the death
and the observation "came to the same within two minutes," and Stromboli is about 15° east
of Gravesend, Booty must have run to Hell before he died.

I have no doubt that "the case is well known in the navy." The facts are of the sort usually
reported to the marines; but the law such as was unknown before 9 & 10 Vict. c. 95.

H. B. C.

  U. U. Club, Feb. 11.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONQUEST.

(Vol. ii., p. 440.; Vol. iii., p. 92.)

I question the position of S. K., that the phrase "post conquestum" is used in the deed he
cites (Vol. ii., p. 92.) for the accession of the king. "Post conquestum" was, in records and
deeds, applied with more or less frequency to all our kings, from Edward III. to Henry VIII.
To show this I give the following references to the pages of Madox's Formulare Anglicanum:-- {171}

EDWARD III. 12. 19. 92. 94. 120. 121. 139. 140. 166. 167. 168. 201. 203. 228. 229. 230. 264.
282. 283. 318. 322. 349. 361. 362. 386. 387. 388. 389. 402. 403.

RICHARD II. 66. 96. 122. 123. 140. 141. 169. 203. 268. 284. 323. 325. 326. 327. 362. 390. 404.
405. 410.

HENRY IV. 67. 97. 98. 124. 125. 142. 172. 204. 205. 269. 270. 284. 285. 328. 329. 330. 350.
391. 405. 407.

HENRY V. 67. 68. 126. 143. 144. 206. 285. 331. 391. 408. 420.

HENRY VI. 18. 34. 100. 101. 103. 104. 126. 127. 145. 147. 148. 206. 207. 208. 233. 270. 271.
286. 331. 332. 333. 334. 351. 364. 392. 393. 394. 409. 410. 434.

EDWARD IV. 128. 148. 209. 234. 286. 335. 352. 365. 394. 395.

RICHARD III. 108. 209. 212. 411.

HENRY VII. 71. 214. 235. 339. 352. 365. 396. 412. 438.

HENRY VIII. 235. 236. 273. 343. 396. 414.

I believe "post conquestum" was also applied to Edward V.; but the records and deeds of his
short reign are necessarily but few.

I conjecture that the use of the term "post conquestum" thus originated.

As we had Kings of England of the name of Edward before the Conquest, Edward the First was
distinguished from these monarchs by being styled "King Edward, the son of King Henry" (his
father was called "King Henry, the son of King John"). In like manner, Edward II. was distinguished
from his father by being called "King Edward, the son of King Edward;" but Edward III. could
not thus be distinguished from his father; he was therefore called King Edward III.; but, as
there were Kings Edward before the Conquest, the third was qualified by the addition of the
phrase in question, "post conquestum." To Richard II. generally, and to his successors up to
Henry VIII. either generally or occasionally, the same phrase, "post conquestum," was also
applied; but, if we except Edward IV. and V., this phrase was not at all required, or applicable
in their cases, inasmuch as no King of England before the Conquest was named either Richard
or Henry.

C. H. COOPER.

  Cambridge, Feb. 4. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESCENT OF HENRY IV.

(Vol. ii., p. 375.; Vol. iii., p. 120.)

Upon the deposition of Richard II., 30th September, 1399, Henry IV., then Duke of Lancaster,
claimed the crown in the following terms:

    "In the name of the Fader, Sonne, and Holy Ghost, I, Henry of
    Lancastre, chalenge this Rewme of Ynglonde and the Croune, with all the
    Membres and the appurtenances, als I that am descendit be ryght lyne of
    the Blode comyng fro the gude Lord King Henry thirde, and thorghe that
    ryght that God of his grace hath sent me with helpe of my kyn and of my
    friendes to recover it: the which Rewme was in poynt to be ondone for
    defaut of Governance, and undoying of the gude Lawes."

Rapin observes upon this (vol. i. p. 476.):--

    "It was not without reason that he affected to make use of obscure
    expressions, which left undetermined the foundation upon which he built
    his pretended right. If he seemed to derive his title from Henry III.
    rather than from Edward III., his grandfather, it was because there was
    a rumour that Edmund, Earl of Lancaster, surnamed Crouch-back, was
    eldest son of Henry III.; but by reason of his deformity Edward I., his
    younger brother, was placed on the throne. According to this
    supposition, the Duke would have made the ignorant believe he could
    ground his title upon being son of Blanch of Lancaster, granddaughter
    of Edmund Crouch-back, and heiress of that family. But as he was
    sensible everybody could not be imposed upon by so gross a forgery, he
    added certain expressions, intimating that he built his right also upon
    the service he had just done the state. This is the meaning of the
    claim, expressed in such obscure terms. As it was resolved to adjudge
    the crown to the Duke, the Parliament took care not to examine his
    claim too closely, but were very willing to suppose it uncontestable.
    Thus, without any regard to the just rights of the Earl of March, it
    was decreed that Henry should be proclaimed king, which was done that
    very day," &c.

It would seem, however, that Henry was to a certain extent compelled to make his claim to the
crown in the form he did (Hales, Hist. C. L. c. 5.), notwithstanding his desire to do so as
a conqueror. (Seld. Tit. Hon. l. 3.)

J. B. COLMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Chauncy--Entwysel.--To a dry genealogical Query (Vol. iii., p. 61.), your readers will wish
me to reply as briefly as possible. F. R. R. will find that Sir H. Chauncy's statement is borrowed
from Weever. The latter founded his statement, that "Wilfred Entwysel was the last heir of
his house," on the authority of Dalton, Norroy; but this statement, as your correspondent has
shown, and as other evidence would prove, is not well-founded. It may be assumed that Sir Bertyne
Entwysel did not leave issue, male, by Lucy his wife, the daughter of Sir John Ashton, of Ashton-under-Lyne,
as Leland speaks of a daughter only, "of whom Master Bradene, of Northamptonshire, is descended."
His connexion with Lancashire is shown by his epitaph, and by our finding his name as a witness
to a Lancashire charter. The alliance which he formed may be urged as a further proof. Leland's
expression, that "he came into England," may imply that Sir Bertyne remained in France discharging
the duties of his office, from the period of the Battle of Agincourt, where he {172} signally
distinguished himself, until his services were again called for in the Wars of the Roses.

J. H. M.

"Pretended" Reprint of Ancient Poetry, in J. Taylor's Catalogue of 1824 (Vol. ii., p. 463.),
replied to by CATO (Vol. ii., p. 500.).--My attention has been drawn to the above, wherein
doubts have been raised as to the existence of a volume supposed to be UNIQUE; and criticisms
follow on my note, which records the fact, that "only TWO COPIES were reprinted." CATO has
already stated that the reprinting the TWO COPIES was at the expense of the late Rev. Peter
Hall; and ONE COPY produced at his sale twenty shillings: the other copy bore the impress of
Mr. Davidson, a highly respectable printer; and that only two copies were reprinted, one of
which came direct to me from the Rev. Peter Hall. This copy was purchased from me by an eminent
statesman, who has formed one of the finest libraries in the kingdom.

JAMES TAYLOR, Formerly of Blackfriars Road.

  Newick, Jan. 27. 1851.

Lights on the Altar.--I would refer your correspondent D. SHOLBUS (Vol. ii., p. 495.) to one
of the Canons published under King Edgar, about the year 968. Lambard's Latin version of the
ordinance is as follows:--

    "Semper in ecclesia lumen ardeat dum Missa decantetur."

([Greek: Archaionomia], ed. Wheloc. p. 70. Cantab. 1644. Compare Cressy's Church History of
Brittany, p. 870. A.D. 1668.)

R. G.

Cognation of the Jews and Lacedæmonians (Vol. ii., p. 377.).--I should occupy too much space
in your interesting publication were I to give a list of the critics or ethnographers who have
commented on this passage, and shall therefore be content to mention some of the most important
works which may afford sufficient information, or at least enable your correspondent to pursue
the inquiry farther.

Calmet's Dissertation sur la Parenté des Juifs et des Lacédémoniens, which is included in his
Dissertations, Paris, 1720, in 3 vols. 4to, and also in his Commentaires.--Stillingfleet's
Origines Sacræ, book iii., c. 4., who admits the probability that the Spartans had relation
to Abraham, as deriving from Phaleg, from whom Abraham came. This appears to have been intended
by the expressions of Josephus, [Greek: ex henos genous kai ek tês pros Abramon oikeiotêtos]
(book xii. c. iv.); but the Versions, and most critics, interpret the words in the 12th chap.
of 1 Maccabees, [Greek: ek genous Abraam], as implying that they came from Abraham: see Selden,
de Synedriis, l. ii. c. iii. s.v.--The Rev. Charles Forster's Historical Geography of Arabia,
part i. sect. vi., in which he discusses "the vestiges of Arab colonies, and maintains the
Arabo-Abrahamic origin of the Greeks."--Stephanus Morinus, in Diss. de Cognatione Lacedæmoniorum
et Hebræorum (inter dissertationes viii. The same author, in a treatise de Ave Selau, cujus
mentio fit Numer. xi. 31., endeavours to establish an analogy between the Hebrew and Gothic
languages.

T. J.

Queen Mary's Lament (Vol. iii., p. 89.).--The following copy of verses, written by this beautiful
and unfortunate princess, during her confinement in Fotheringay Castle, was presented to the
public by the kindness of a very eminent and liberal collector:--

 "Que suis-je helas? et de quoi sert la vie?
  J'en suis fors qu'un corps privé de cueur;
  Un ombre vayn, un objet de malheur,
  Qui n'a plus rien que de mourir en vie.
  Plus ne me portez, O enemys, d'envie,
  Qui n'a plus l'esprit à la grandeur,
  J'ai consommé d'excessive douleur,
  Voltre ire en bref de voir assouvie.
  Et vous amys qui m'avez tenu chere,
  Souvenez-vous que sans cueur, et sans santey,
  Je ne scaurois auqun bon oeuvre faire.
  Souhaitez donc fin de calamitey,
  Et que sus bas étant assez punie,
  J'aie ma part en la joie infinie."

The verses are written on a sheet of paper, by Mary herself, in a large rambling hand. The
following literal translation of them was made by a countrywoman of Mary's, a lady in beauty
of person and elegance of mind by no means inferior to that accomplished and unfortunate princess:

