I was shown into the room from whence the voice proceeded, which happened to be Massa Aaron's
bedroom: and there were my three friends stretched on sofas, in their night--clothes, with
a blanket, sheet, and counterpane over each, forming three sides of a square round a long table,
on which a most capital dinner was smoking, with wines of several kinds, and a perfect galaxy
of wax candles, and their sable valets, in nice clean attire, and smart livery coats, waiting
on them.

"Ah, Tom," quoth Massa Paul, "delighted to see you,--come, you seem to have dry clothes on,
so take the head of the table."

I did so; and broke ground forthwith with great zeal.

"Tom, a glass of wine, my dear," said Aaron.  "Don't you admire us classical, after the manner
of the ancients, eh?  Wagtail's head--dress, and Paul's night--cap--oh, the comforts of a woollen
one!  Ah, Tom, Tom, the Greeks had no Kilmamock--none."

We all carried on cheerily, and Bang began to sparkle.

"Well, now since you have weighed the schooner and found not much wanting I feel my spirits
rising again.--A glass of champagne, Tom, your health, boy.--The dip the old hooker has got
must have surprises the rats and cockroaches.  Do you know, Tom, I really have an idea of writing
a history of the cruise; only I am deterred from the melancholy consciousness that every blockhead
nowadays fancies he can write."

"Why, my dear sir, are you not coquetting for a compliment?  Don't we all know, that many of
the crack articles in Ebony's Mag" "Bah," clapping his hand on my mouth; "hold your tongue;
all wrong in that"

"Well, if it be not you then, I scarcely know to whom to attribute them. Until lately, I only
knew you as the warm hearted West Indian gentleman; but now I am certain I am to"

"Tom, hold your tongue, my beautiful little man.  For, although I must plead guilty to having
mixed a little in literary society in my younger days--Alas! my heart, those days are gane."

"Ah,  Mr  Swop," continued Mr Bang, as the master was ushered  into  the room.  "Plate and
glasses for Mr Swop."

The  sailor  bowed,  perched himself on the  very  edge  of  his  chair, scarcely  within 
long  arm's  length of the  table,  and  sitting  bolt upright,  as if he had swallowed a spare
studdingsail--boom,  drank  our healths, and smoothed down his hair on his brow.

"Captain, I come to report the schooner ready to"

"Poo,"  rattled  out  Mr  Bang; "time for your  tale  by  and  by;--help yourself  to  some
of  that  capital beef, Peter,--So--Yes,  my  love," continued  our friend, resuming his yarn.
"I once coped even with  John Wilson  himself.  Yea, in the fullness of my powers, I feared
not  even the Professor."

"Indeed!" said I.

"True,  as  I am a gentleman.  Why, I once, in a public trial of  skill, beat him, even him,
by eighteen measured inches, from toe to heel."

I stared.

"I was the slighter man of the two, certainly.  Still, in a flying leap, I always had the best
of it, until he astonished the world with the Isle of  Palms. From that day forth, my springiness
and elasticity  left  me. Fallen  was my muscles brawny vaunt. I quailed.  My genius stood
rebuked before  him.   Nevertheless, at hop--step--and--jump  I  was  his  match still.   When
out  came the City of the Plague! From  that  the  Great Ostrich  could not hold the candle
to the Flying Philosopher.  And  now, heaven  help  me!   I  can  scarcely cover  nineteen
feet,  with  every advantage  of ground for the run.  It is true, the Professor was  always
in condition, and never required training; now, unless I had time for my hard food, I was seldom
in wind."

Mr  Peter  Swop,  emboldened  and brightened  by  the  wine  he  had  so industriously  swilled,
and  willing  to  contribute   his   quota   of conversation, having previously jumbled in
his noddle what Mr  Bang  had said  about an ostrich, and hard food, asked, across the table
"Do  you believe ostriches eat iron, Mr Bang?"

Mr   Bang  slowly  put  down  his  glass,  and  looking  with  the  most imperturbable  seriousness
the  innocent  master  right  in  the  face, exclaimed:

"Ostriches eat iron!--Do I believe ostriches eat iron, did you  say,  Mr Swop?   Will  you
have the great kindness to tell me if  this  glass  of madeira be poison, Mr Swop?  Why, when
Captain Cringle there was in  the Bight  of  Benin, from which 'One comes out where a hundred
go  in,'  on board of the--what--d'ye--call--her? I forget her name--they had a  tame ostrich,
which was the wonder of the whole squadron.  At the first  go off  it  had plenty of food,
but at length they had to put it  on  short allowance of a Winchester bushel of tenpenny nails
and a pump--bolt  a day;  but their supplies failing, they had even to reduce this quantity,
whereby  the poor bird, after unavailing endeavours to get at  the  iron ballast, was driven
to pick out the iron bolts of the ship in the  clear moonlight  nights,  when no one was thinking
of it; so  that  the  craft would  soon have been a perfect wreck.  And as the commodore  would
not hear  of  the creature being killed, Tom there undertook to keep  it  on copper bolts and
sheathing until they reached Cape Coast.  But it  would not  do;  the  copper soured on its
stomach, and it  died.   Believe  an ostrich eats iron, quotha!  But to return to the training
for the jump I  used  to  stick to beef--steaks and a thimbleful of Burton  ale;  and again
I tried the dried knuckle parts of legs of five--year--old black faced  muttons;  but,  latterly,
I trained best,  so  far  as  wind  was concerned, on birsled pease and whisky"

"On what?" shouted I, in great astonishment.  "On what?"

"Yes, my boys; parched pease and whisky.  Charge properly with birsled pease, and if you take
a caulkers just as you begin your run, there is the linstock to the gun for you, and away you
fly through the air on the self--propelling principle of the Congreve Rocket.  Well might that
amiable, and venerable, and most learned Theban, Cockibus Bungo, who always held the stakes
on these great occasions, exclaim, in his astonishment, to Cheesey, the janitor of many days--as
'Like fire from flint I glanced away,' disdaining the laws of gravitation--by Mercury, I swear,--yea,
by his winged heel, I shall have at the Professor yet, if I live, and whisky and birsled pease
fail me not."

Here  Paul and I laughed outright; but Mr Wagtail appeared out of sorts, somehow; and Swop
looked first at one, and then at another, with a  look of  the  most  ludicrous uncertainty
as to whether Mr Bang was  quizzing him, or telling a verity.

"Why, Wagtail," said Gelid, "what ails you, my boy?"

I  looked  towards  our little amiable fat friend.  His  face  was  much flushed,  although
I learned that he had been unusually abstemious,  and he  appeared  heated and restless, and
had evidently  feverish  symptoms about him.

"Who's  there?"  said Wagtail, looking towards the door  with  a  raised look.

It was Tailtackle, with two of the boys carrying a litter, followed by Peter Mangrove, as if
he had been chief mourner at a funeral.  Out of the litter a black paw, with fishes or splints
whipped round it by a band of spunyam, protruded, and kept swaying about like a pendulum.

"What have you got there, Mr Tailtackle?"

The gunner turned round.

"Oh, it is a vagary of Peter Mangrove's, sir.  Not contented with getting the doctor to set
Sneezer's starboard foreleg, he insists on bringing him away from amongst the people at the
capstan--house."

"True, Massa--Massa Tailtackle say true; de poor dumb dog never shall cure him leg none at
all, mong de men dere; dey all love him so mosh, and make of him so mosh, and stuff him wid
salt wittal so mosh, till him blood inflammation like a hell; and den him so good temper, and
so gratify wid dere attention, dat I believe him will eat till him kickeriboo of sorefut, [surfeit,
I presumed;] and, beside, I know de dog healt will instantly mend if him see you.  Oh, Massa
Aaron, [our friend was smiling,] it not like you to make fun of poor black fellow, when him
is take de part of soch old friend as poor Sneezer.  De Captain dere cannot laugh, dat is if
him will only tink on dat fearful cove at Puerto Escondido, and what Sneezer did for bote of
we dere."

"Well, well, Mangrove, my man," said Mr Bang, "I will ask leave of my friends here to have
the dog bestowed in a corner of the piazza, so let the boys lay him down there, and here is
a glass of grog for you--so. Now go back again,"--as the poor fellow had drank our health's.

Here Sneezer, who had been still as a mouse all this while, put his black snout out of the
hammock, and began to cheep and whine in his gladness at seeing his master, and the large tears
ran down his coal black muzzle as he licked my hand, while every now and then he gave a short
fondling bark, as if he had said, "Ah, master, I thought you had forgotten me altogether, ever
since the action where I got my leg broke by a grape--shot, but I find I am mistaken."

"Now, Tailtackle, what say you?"

"We may ease off the tackles to--morrow afternoon," said the gunner, "and right the schooner,
sir; we have put in a dozen cashew knees, as tough as leather, and bolted the planks tight
and fast.  You saw these heavy quarters did us no good, sir; I hope you will beautify her again,
now since the Spaniard's shot has pretty well demolished them already. I hope you won't replace
them, sir. I hope Captain Transom may see her as she should be, as she was when your honour
had your first pleasure cruise in her." Here--but I may have dreamed it I thought the quid
in the honest fellow's cheek stuck out in higher relief than usual for a short space.

"We shall see, we shall see," said I.

"I say, Don Timotheus," quoth Bang, "you don't mean to be off without drinking our healths?"
as he tipped him a tumbler of brandy grog of very dangerous strength.

The warrant officer drank it, and vanished, and presently Mr Gelid's brother, who had just
returned from one of the out islands, made his appearance, and after the greeting between them
was over, the stranger advanced, and with much grace invited us en masse to his house.  But
by this time Mr Wagtail was so ill, that we could not move that night, our chief concern now
being to see him properly bestowed; and very soon I was convinced that his disease was a violent
bilious fever.

The old brown landlady, like all her caste, was a most excellent nurse; and after the most
approved and skilful surgeon of the town had seen him, and prescribed what was thought right,
we all turned in.  Next morning, before any of us were up, a whole plateful of cards were handed
to us, and during the forenoon these were followed by as many invitations to dinner.  We had
difficulty in making our election, but that day I remember we dined at the beautiful Mrs C----'s,
and in the evening adjourned to a ball--a very gay affair; and I do freely avow, that I never
saw so many pretty women in a community of the same size before.  Oh! it was a little paradise,
and not without its Eve.  But such an Eve! I scarcely think the old Serpent himself could have
found it in his heart to have beguiled her.

"I say, Tom, my dear boy," said Mr Bang, "do you see that darling?  Oh, who can picture to
himself, without a tear, that such a creature of light, such an ethereal--looking thing, whose
step 'would ne'er wear out the everlasting flint,' that floating gossamer on the thin air,
shall one day become an anxious--looking, sharp--featured, pale--faced, loud tongued, thin--bosomed,
broad bottomed wife!"

The next day, or rather in the same night, his Majesty's ship Rabo arrived, and the first tidings
we had of it in the morning were communicated by Captain Qeuedechat himself, an honest, uproarious
sailor, who chose to begin, as many a worthy ends, by driving up to the door of the lodging
in a cart.

"Is the Captain of the small schooner that was swamped, here?" he asked of Massa Pegtop.

Free and easy this, thought I.

"Yes, sir, Captain Cringle is here, but him no get up yet." "Oh, never mind, tell him not to
hurry himself; but where is the table laid for breakfast?"

"Here, sir," said Pegtop, as he showed him into the piazza.

"Ah, that will do--so give me the newspaper--tol de rol," and he began reading and singing,
in all the buoyancy of mind consequent on escaping from shipboard after a three months cruise.

I dressed and came to him as soon as I could; and the gallant Captain, whom I had figured to
myself a fine light gossamer lad of twenty--two, stared me in the face as a fat elderly cock
of forty at the least; and as to bulk, I would not have guaranteed that eighteen stone could
have made him kick the beam. However, he was an excellent fellow, and that day he and his crew
were of most essential service in assisting me in refitting the Wave, for which I shall always
be grateful. I had spent the greater part of the forenoon in my professional duty, but after
two o'clock I had knocked off, in order to make a few calls on the families to whom I had introductions,
and who were afterwards so signally kind to me. I then returned to our lodgings in order to
dress for dinner, before I sallied forth to worthy old Mr N----'s, where we were all to dine,
when I met Aaron.

"No chance of our removing to Peter Gelid's this evening."

"Why?" I asked.

"Oh, poor Pepperpot Wagtail is become alarmingly ill; inflammatory symptoms have appeared,
and"--Here the colloquy was cut short by the entrance of Mrs Peter Celid--a pretty woman enough.
She had come to learn herself from our landlady, how Mr Wagtail was, and with the kindliness
of the country, she volunteered to visit poor little Waggy in his sick--bed. I did not go into
the room with her; but when she returned, she startled us all a good deal, by stating her opinion
that the worthy man was really very ill, in which she was corroborated by the doctor, who now
arrived.  So soon as the medico saw him, he bled him, and after prescribing a lot of effervescing
draughts, and various febrifuge mixtures, he left a large blister with the old brown landlady,
to be applied over his stomach if the wavering and flightiness did not leave him before morning.
We returned early after dinner from Mr N----'s to our lodgings, and as I knew Gelid was expected
at his brother's in the evening, to meet a large assemblage of kindred, and as the night was
rainy and tempestuous, I persuaded him to trust the watch to me; and as our brown landlady
had been up nearly the whole of the previous night, I sent for Tailtackle to spell me, while
the black valets acted with great assiduity in their capacity of surgeon's mates.  About two
in the morning Mr Wagtail became delirious, and it was all that I could do, aided by my sable
assistants, and an old black nurse, to hold him down in his bed.  Now was the time to clap
on the blister, but he repeatedly tore it off, so that at length we had to give it up for an
impracticable job; and Tailtackle, whom I had called from his pallet, where he had gone to
lie down for an hour, placed the caustico, as the Spaniards call it, at the side of the bed.

"No use in trying this any more at present," said I; "we must wait until he gets quieter, Mr
Tailtackle; so go to your bed, and I shall lie down on this sofa here, where Marie Paparoche"
(this was our old landlady) "has spread sheets, I see, and made all comfortable.  And send
Mr Bang's servant, will you;" (friend Aaron had ridden into the country after dinner to visit
a friend, and the storm, as I conjectured, had kept him there;) "he is fresh, and will call
me in case I be wanted, or Mr Wagtail gets worse."

I lay down, and soon fell fast asleep, and I remembered nothing, until I awoke about eleven
o'clock next morning, and heard Mr Bang speaking to Wagtail, at whose bedside he was standing.

"Pepperpot, my dear, be thankful--you are quite cool--a fine moisture on your skin this morning--be
thankful, my little man how did your blister rise?"

"My good friend," quoth Wagtail, in a thin weak voice, "I can't tell--I don't know; but this
I perceive, that I am unable to rise, whether it has risen or no."

"Ah--weak," quoth Gelid, who had now entered the room.

"Nay," said Pepperpot, "not so weak as deucedly sore, and on a very unromantic spot, my dears."

"Why," said Aaron, "the pit of the stomach is not a very genteel department, nor the abdomen
neither."

"Why," said Wagtail, "I have no blister on either of those places, but if it were possible
to dream of such a thing, I would say it had been clapped on"

Here his innate propriety tongue--tied him.

"Eh?" said Aaron; "what--has the caustico that was intended for the frontiers of Belgium been
clapped by mistake on the broad Pays Bas?"

And so in very truth it turned out; for while we slept, the patient had risen, and sat down
on the blister that lay, as already mentioned, on a chair at his bedside, and again toppling
into bed, had fallen into a sound sleep, from which he had but a few moments before the time
I write of awoke.

"Why, now," continued Aaron, to the doctor of the Wave who had just entered--"why, here is
a discovery, my dear doctor.  You clap a hot blister on a poor fellow's head to cool it, but
Doctor Cringle there has cooled Master Wagtail's brain, by blistering his stern--eh?--Make
notes, and mind you report this to the College of  Surgeons."

I cleared myself of these imputations.  Wagtail recovered; our refitting was completed; our
wood, and water, and provisions, replenished; and, after spending one of the happiest fortnights
of my life, in one continued round of gaiety, I prepared to leave--with tears in my eyes, I
will confess--the clear waters, bright blue skies, glorious climate, and warm hearted community
of Nassau, New Providence.  Well might that old villain Blackbeard have made this sweet spot
his favourite rendezvous. By the way, this same John Teach or Blackbeard, had fourteen wives
in the lovely island; and I am not sure but I could have picked out something approximating
to the aforesaid number myself, with time and opportunity, from among such a galaxy of loveliness
as then shone and sparkled in this dear little town.  Speaking of the pirate Blackbeard, I
ought to have related that one morning when I was at breakfast at Mrs C----'s, the amiable,
and beautiful, and innocent girl matron ay, you supercilious son of a sea--cook, you may turn
up your nose at the expression, but if you could have seen the burden of my song as I saw her,
and felt the elegancies of her manner and conversation as I felt them--but let us stick to
Blackbeard, if you please.  We were all comfortably seated at breakfast; I had finished my
sixth egg, had concealed a beautiful dried snapper, before which even a rizzard haddock sank
into insignificance, and was bethinking me of finishing off with a slice of Scotch mutton--ham,
when in slid Mr Bang.  He was received with all possible cordiality, and commenced operations
very vigorously.

He was an amazing favourite of our hostess, (as where was he not a favourite?) so that it was
some time before he even looked my way.  We were in the midst of a discussion regarding the
beauty of New Providence, and the West India Islands in general; and I was remarking that nature
had been liberal, that the scenery was unquestionably magnificent in the larger islands, and
beautiful in the smaller; but there were none of those heart--stirring reminiscences, none
of those thrilling electrical associations, which vibrate to the heart at visiting scenes in
Europe famous in antiquity--famous as the spot in which recent victories had been achieved--famous
even for the very freebooters, who once held unlawful sway in the neighbourhood.  "Why, there
never has flourished hereabouts, for instance, even one thoroughly melodramatic thief." Massa
Aaron let me go on, until he had nearly finished his breakfast.  At length he fired a shot at me.

"I say, Tom, you are expatiating, I see.  Nothing heart stirring, say you?  In new countries
it would bother you to have old associations certainly; and you have had your Rob Roy, I grant
you, and the old country has had her Robin Hood.  But has not Jamaica had her Three fingered
Jack? Ay, a more gentlemanlike scoundrel than either of the former.  When did jack refuse a
piece of yam, and a cordial from his horn, to the wayworn man, white or black?  When did he
injure a woman? When did Jack refuse food and a draught of cold water, the greatest boon, in
our ardent climate, that he could offer, to a wearied child? Oh, there was much poetry in the
poor fellow!  And here, had they not that most melodramatic (as you choose to word it) of thieves,
Blackbeard, before whom Bluebeard must for ever hide his diminished head?  Why, Bluebeard had
only one wife at a time, although he murdered five of them, whereas Blackbeard had seldom fewer
than a dozen, and he was never known to murder above three.  But I have fallen in with such
a treasure!  Oh, such a discovery!  I have been communing with Noah himself with an old negro,
who remembers this very Blackbeard--the pirate Blackbeard."

"The deuce," said I; "impossible!" "But it is true.  Why it is only ninety--four years ago
since the scoundrel flourished, and this old cock is one hundred and ten. I have jotted it
down--worth a hundred pounds.  Read, my adorable Mrs C----, read."

"But, my dear Mr Bang," said she, "had you not better read it yourself?"

"You, if you please," quoth Aaron, who forthwith set himself to make the best use of his time.

MEMOIR OF JOHN TEACH, ESQUIRE VULGARLY CALLED BLACKBEARD. BY AARON BANGS, ESQUIRE, F.R.S.

"He was the mildest mannered man. That ever scuttled ship, or cut a throat; With such true
breeding of a gentleman, You never could discern his real thought. Pity he loved adventurous
life's variety, He was so great a loss to good society."

John Teach, or Blackbeard, was a very eminent man--a very handsome man, and a very devil amongst
the ladies.

He was a Welshman, and introduced the leek into Nassau about the year 1718, and was a very
remarkable personage, although, from some singular imperfection in his moral constitution,
he never could distinguish clearly between meum and tuum.

He found his patrimony was not sufficient to support him; and as he disliked agricultural pursuits
as much as mercantile, he got together forty or fifty fine young men one day, and borrowed
a vessel from some merchants that was lying at the Nore, and set sail for the Bahamas.  On
his way he fell in with several West Indiamen, and, sending a boat on board of each, he asked
them for the loan of provisions and wine, and all their gold, and silver, and clothes, which
request was in every instance but one civilly acceded to; whereupon, drinking their good healths,
he returned to his ship.  In the instance where he had been uncivilly treated, to show his
forbearance, he saluted them with twenty one guns; but by some accident the shot had not been
withdrawn, so that unfortunately the contumacious ill bred craft sank, and as Blackbeard's
own vessel was very crowded, he was unable to save any of the crew.  He was a great admirer
of fine air, and accordingly established himself on the island of New Providence, and invited
a number of elegant young men, who were fond of pleasure cruises, to visit him, so that presently
he found it necessary to launch forth in order to borrow more provisions.

At this period he was a great dandy; and amongst other vagaries, he allowed his beard to grow
a foot long at the shortest, and then plaited it into three strands, indicating that he was
a bashaw of no common dimensions.  He wore red breeches, but no stockings, and sandals of bullock's
hide.  He was a perfect Egyptian in his curiousness in fine linen, and his shirt was always
white as the driven snow when it was clean, which was the first Sunday of every month.  In
waistcoats he was especially select; but the cut of them very much depended on the fashion
in favour with the last gentleman he had borrowed from.  He never wore any thing but a full
dress purple velvet coat, under which bristled three brace of pistols, and two naked stilettoes,
only eighteen inches long, and he had generally a lighted matchfizzing in the bow of his cocked
scraper whereat he lighted his pipe, or fired off a cannon, as pleased him.

One of his favourite amusements, when he got half slewed, was to adjourn to the hold with his
compotators, and kindling some brimstone matches, to dance and roar, as if he had been the
devil himself, until his allies were nearly suffocated.  At another time he would blow out
the candles in the cabin, and blaze away with his loaded pistols at random, right and left,
whereby he severely wounded the feelings of some of his intimates by the poignancy of his wit,
all of which he considered a most excellent joke.  But he was kind to his fourteen wives so
long as he was sober, as it is known that he never murdered above three of them.  His borrowing,
however, gave offence to our government, no one can tell how; and at length two of our frigates,
the Lime and Pearl, then cruising off the American coast, after driving him from his, stronghold,
hunted him down in an inlet in North Carolina, where, in an eight--gun schooner, with thirty
desperate fellows, he made a defence worthy of his honourable life, and fought so furiously
that he killed and wounded more men of the attacking party than his own crew consisted of;
and following up his success, he boarded, sword in hand, the headmost of the two armed sloops,
which had been detached by the frigates, with ninety men on board, to capture him; and being
followed by twelve men and his trusty lieutenant, he would have carried her out and out, maugre
the disparity of force, had he not fainted from loss of blood, when, falling on his back, he
died where he fell, like a hero--"His face to the sky, and his feet to the foe" leaving eleven
forlorn widows, being the fourteen wives, minus the three that he had throttled.

"NO CHIVALROUS ASSOCIATIONS indeed!  Match me such a character as this."

We  all  applauded to the echo.  But I must end my song,  for  I  should never  tire  in  dwelling
on  the happy days  we  spent  in  this  most enchanting  little island.  The lovely blithe
girls, and the  hospitable kind  hearted men, and the children! I never saw such cherubs, with
all the  sprightliness of the little pale--faced creoles of the West Indies, while the healthy
bloom of Old England blossomed on their cheeks.

"I say, Tom," said Massa Aaron, on one occasion when I was rather tedious on the subject, "all
those little cherubs, as you call them, at least the most of them, are the offspring of the
cotton bales captured in the American war."

"The what?" said I.

"The children of the American war--and I will prove it thus taking the time from no less an
authority than Hamlet, when he chose to follow the great Dictator, Julius Caesar himself, through
all the corruption of our physical nature, until he found him stopping a beer barrel--(only
imagine the froth of one of our disinterested friend Buxton's beer barrels, savouring of quassia,
not hop, fizzing through the clay of Julius Caesar the Roman!)--as thus: If there had been
no Yankee war, there would have been no prize cargoes of cotton sent into Nassau; if there
had been no prize cargoes sent into Nassau, there would have been little money made; if there
had been little money made, there would have been fewer marriages; if there had been fewer
marriages, there would have been fewer cherubs.  There is logic for you, my darling."

"Your last is a non sequitur, my dear sir," said I, laughing.  "But, in the main, Parson Malthus
is right, out of Ireland that is, after all."

That evening I got into a small scrape, by impressing three apprentices out of a Scotch brig,
and if Mr Bang had not stood my friend, I might have, got into serious trouble.  Thanks to
him, the affair was soldered.

When on the eve of sailing, my excellent friends, Messrs Bang, Gelid, and Wagtail, determined,
in consequence of letters which they had received from Jamaica, to return home in a beautiful
armed brig that was to sail in a few days, laden with flour. I cannot well describe how much
this moved me.  Young and enthusiastic as I was, I had grappled myself with hooks of steel
to Mr Bang; and now, when he unexpectedly communicated his intention of leaving me, I felt
more forlorn and deserted than I was willing to plead to.

"My dear boy," said he, "make my peace with Transom.  If urgent business had not pressed me,
I would not have broken my promise to rejoin him; but I am imperiously called for in Jamaica,
where I hope soon to see you." He continued, with a slight tremor in his voice, which thrilled
to my heart, as it vouched for the strength of his regard,--"If ever I am where you may come,
Tom, and you don't make my house your home, provided you have not a better of your own, I will
never forgive you." He paused. "You young fellows sometimes spend faster than you should do,
and quarterly bills are long of coming round. I have drawn for more money than I want. I wish
you would--let me be your banker for a hundred pounds, Tom."

I squeezed his hand.  "No, no--many, many thanks, my dear sir but I never outrun the constable.
Goodbye, God bless you.  Farewell, Mr Wagtail--Mr Gelid, adieu." I tumbled into the boat and
pulled on board. The first thing I did was to send the wine and sea stock, a most exuberant
assortment unquestionably, belonging to my Jamaica friends, ashore; but, to my surprise, the
boat was sent back, with Mr Bang's card, on which was written in pencil, "Don't affront us,
Captain Cringle." Thereupon I got the schooner under weigh, and no event worth narrating turned
up until we anchored close to the post office at Crooked Island, two days after.

We found the Firebrand there, and the post--office mail--boat, with her red flag and white
horse in it, and I went on board the corvette to deliver my official letter, detailing the
incidents of the cruise, and was most graciously received by my captain.

There was a sail in sight when we anchored, which at first we took for the Jamaica packet;
but it turned out to be the Tinker, friend Bang's flour--loaded brig; and by five in the evening
our friends were all three once more restored to us, but, alas! so far as regarded two of them,
only for a moment.  Messrs Gelid and Wagtail had, on second thoughts, it seems, hauled their
wind to lay in a stock of turtle at Crooked Island, and I went ashore with them, and assisted
in the selection from the turtle crawls filled with beautiful clear water, and lots of fine
lively fresh--caught fish, the postmaster being the turtle merchant.

"I say, Paul, happier in the fish way here than you were at Biggleswade eh?" said Aaron.

After we had completed our purchases, our friends went on board the corvette, and I was invited
to meet them at dinner, where the aforesaid postmaster, a stout conch, with a square--cut coatee
and red cape and cuffs, was also a guest.

He must have had but a dull time of it, as there were no other white inhabitants that I saw,
on the island besides himself; his wife having gone to Nassau, which he looked on as the prime
city of the world, to be confined, as he told us.  Bang said, that she must rather have gone
to be delivered from confinement; and, in truth, Crooked Island was a most desolate domicile
for a lady; our friend the postmaster's family, and a few negroes employed in catching turtle,
and making salt, and dressing some scrubby cotton--trees, composing the whole population. 
In the evening the packet did arrive, however, and Captain Transom received his orders.

"Captain Transom, my boy," quoth Bang towards nightfall, "the best of friends must part--we
must move--good--night--we shall be off presently good--by"--and he held out his hand.

"Devil a bit," said Transom; "Bang, you shall not go, neither you nor your friends.  You promised,
in fact shipped with me for the cruise, and Lady----has my word and honour that you shall be
restored to her longing eye, sound and safe--so you must all remain, and send down the flour
brig to say you are coming."

To make a long story short, Massa Aaron was boned, but his friends were obdurate, so we all
weighed that night; the Tinker bearing up for Jamaica, while we kept by the wind, steering
for Conaives in St Domingo.

The third day we were off Cape St Nicholas, and getting a slant of wind from the westward,
we ran up the Bight of Leogane all that night, but towards morning it fell calm; we were close
in under the highland, about two miles from the shore, and the night was the darkest I ever
was out in anywhere.  There were neither moon nor stars to be seen, and the dark clouds settled
down, until they appeared to rest upon our mastheads, compressing, as it were, the hot steamy
air upon us until it became too dense for breathing.  In the early part of the night it had
rained in heavy showers now and then, and there were one or two faint flashes of lightning,
and some heavy peals of thunder, which rolled amongst the distant hills in loud shaking reverberations,
which gradually became fainter and fainter, until they grumbled away in the distance in hoarse
murmurs, like the low notes of an organ in one of our old cathedrals; but now there was neither
rain nor wind--all nature seemed fearfully hushed; for where we lay, in the smooth bight, there
was no swell, not even a ripple on the glasslike sea; the sound of the shifting of a handspike,
or the tread of the men, as they ran to haul on--a rope, or the creaking of the rudder, sounded
loud and distinct.  The sea in our neighbourhood was strongly phosphorescent, so that the smallest
chip thrown overboard struck fire from the water, as if it had been a piece of iron cast on
flint; and when you looked over the quarter, as I delight to do, and tried to penetrate into
the dark clear profound beneath,  you every now and then saw a burst of pale light, like a
halo, far down in the depths of the green sea, caused by the motion of some fish, or of what
Jack, no great natural philosopher, usually calls blubbers; and when the dolphin or skip--jack
leapt into the air, they sparkled out from the still bosom of the deep dark water like rockets,
until they fell again into their element in a flash of fire.  This evening the corvette had
showed no lights, and although I conjectured she was not far from us, still I could not with
any certainty indicate her whereabouts.  It might now have been about three o'clock, and I
was standing on the aftermost gun on the starboard side, peering into the impervious darkness
over the tafferel, with my dear old dog Sneezer by my side, nuzzling and fondling after his
affectionate fashion, while the pilot, Peter Mangrove, stood within handspike length of me.
The dog had been growling, but all in fun, and snapping at me, when in a moment he hauled off,
planted his paws on the rail, looked forth into the night, and gave a short, anxious bark,
Ii e the solitary pop of the sentry's musket to alarm the main guard in outpost work.

Peter Mangrove advanced, and put his arm round the dog's neck.  "What you see, my shild?" said
the black pilot.

Sneezer uplifted his voice, and gave a long continuous growl.

"Ah!" said Mangrove sharply, "Massa Captain, something near we--never doubt dat--de dog yeerie
someting we can't yeerie, and see someting we can't see."

I had lived long enough never to despise any caution, from whatever quarter it proceeded. 
So I listened, still as a stone.  Presently I thought I heard the distant splash of oars. 
I placed my hand behind my ear, and waited with breathless attention.  Immediately I saw the
sparkling dip of them in the calm black water, as if a boat, and a large one, was pulling very
fast towards us.  "Look out, hail that boat," said I.

"Boat ahoy!" sung out the man, to whom I had spoken.  No answer. "Coming here?" reiterated
the seaman.  No better success.  The boat or canoe, or whatever it might be, was by this time
close aboard of us, within pistol--shot at the farthest--no time to be lost, so I hailed myself,
and this time the challenge did produce an answer.

"Sore boat--fruit and wegitab."

"Shore boat, with fruit and vegetables, at this time of night--I don't like it," said I. "Boatswain's
mate,--all hands--pipe away the boarders. Cutlasses, men--quick, a piratical row--boat is close
to." And verily we had little time to lose, when a large canoe or row--boat, pulling twelve
oars at the fewest, and carrying twenty--five men, or thereabouts, swept up on our larboard
quarter, hooked on, and the next moment upwards of twenty unlooked--for visitors scrambled
up our shallow side, and jumped on board.  All this took place so suddenly that there were
not ten of my people ready to receive them, but those ten were the prime men of the ship.

"Surrender, you scoundrels--surrender.  You have boarded a man of--war. Down with your arms,
or we shall kill you to a man."

But they either did not understand me, or did not believe me, for the answer was a blow from
a cutlass, which, if I had not parried with my night--glass, which it broke in pieces, might
have effectually stopped my promotion.

"Cut them down, boarders, down with them--they are pirates," shouted I; "heave cold shot into
their boat alongside--all hands, Mr Rousemout," to the boatswain, "call all hands."

We closed.  The assailants had no firearms, but they were armed with swords and long knives,
and as they fought with desperation, several of our people were cruelly haggled; and after
the first charge, the combatants on both sides became so blended, that it was impossible to
strike a blow, without running the risk of cutting down a friend.  By this time all hands were
on deck; the boat alongside had been swamped by the cold shot that had been hove crashing through
her bottom, when down came a shower from the surcharged clouds, or waterspout--call it which
you will--that absolutely deluged the decks, the scuppers being utterly unable to carry off
the water.  So long as the pirates fought in a body, I had no fears, as, dark as it was, our
men, who held together, knew where to strike and thrust; but when the torrent of rain descended
in bucketfuls, the former broke away, and were pursued singly into various corners about the
deck, all escape being cut off from the swamping of their boat.  Still they were not vanquished,
and I ran aft to the binnacle, where a blue light was stowed away,--one of several that we
had got on deck to bum that night, in order to point out our whereabouts to the Firebrand.
I fired it, and rushing forward cutlass--in--hand, we set on the gang of black desperadoes
with such fury, that after killing two of them outright, and wounding and taking prisoners
seven, we drove the rest overboard into the sea, where the small--armed men, who by this time
had tackled to their muskets, made short work of them, guided as they were by the sparkling
of the dark water, as they struck out and swam for their lives.  The blue light was immediately
answered by another from the corvette, which lay about a mile off; but before her boats, two
of which were immediately armed and manned, could reach us, we had defeated our antagonists,
and the rain had increased to such a degree, that the heavy drops, as they fell with a strong
rushing noise into the sea, flashed it up into one entire sheet of fire.

We--secured our prisoners, all blacks and mulattoes, the most villainous looking scoundrels
I had ever seen, and shortly after it came on to thunder and lighten, as if heaven and earth
had been falling together. A most vivid flash--it almost blinded me.  Presently the Firebrand
burnt another blue light, whereby we saw that her maintopmast was gone close by the cap, with
the topsail, and upper spars, and yards, and gear, all hanging down in a lumbering mass of
confused wreck; she had been struck by the levin brand, which had killed four men, and stunned
several more.

By  this  time the cold grey streaks of morning appeared in the  eastern horizon,  and  soon
after the day broke; and  by  two  o'clock  in  the afternoon,  both corvette and schooner
were at anchor at Conaives.   The village, for town it could not be called, stands on a low
hot plain,  as if  the  washings of the mountains on the left hand side as we stood  in had
been  carried out into the sea, and formed into a white plateau  of sand; all was hot and stunted,
and scrubby. We brought up inside of  the corvette,  in  three fathoms water.  My superior
officer  had  made  the private  signal to come on board and dine.  I dressed, and the boat
was lowered  down, and we pulled for the corvette, but our course lay  under the stern of the
two English ships that were lying there loading cargoes of coffee.

"Pray, sir," said a decent--looking man, who leant on the tafferel of one of them--"Pray, sir,
are you going on board of the Commodore?"

"I am," I answered.

"I am invited there too, sir; will you have the kindness to say I will be there presently?"

"Certainly--give way, men."

Presently we were alongside the corvette, and the next moment we stood on her deck, holystoned
white and clean, with my stanch friend Captain Transom and his officers, all in full fig, walking
to and fro under the awning, a most magnificent naval lounge, being thirty two feet wide at
the gangway, and extending fifty feet or more aft, until it narrowed to twenty at the tafferel.
We were all--the two masters of the merchantmen, decent respectable men in their way, included--graciously
received, and sat down to an excellent dinner, Mr Bang taking the lead as usual in all the
fun; and we were just on the verge of cigars and cold grog, when the first lieutenant came
down and said that the captain of the port had come off, and was then on board.

"Show him in," said Captain Transom, and a tall, vulgar--looking blackamoor, dressed apparently
in the cast--off coat of a French grenadier officer, entered the cabin with his chapeau in
his hand, and a Madras handkerchief tied round his woolly skull.  He made his bow, and remained
standing near the door.

"You are the captain of the port?" said Captain Transom.  The man answered in French, that
he was.  "Why, then, take a chair, sir, if you please."

He begged to be excused and after tipping off his bumper of claret, and receiving the Captain's
report, he made his bow and departed.

I returned to the Wave, and next morning I breakfasted on board of the Commodore, and afterwards
we all proceeded on shore to Monsieur B----'s, to whom Massa Aaron was known.  The town, if
I may call it so, had certainly a very desolate appearance.  There was nothing stirring; and
although a group of idlers, amounting to about twenty or thirty, did collect about us on the
end of the wharf, which, by the by, was terribly out of repair, yet they all appeared ill clad,
and in no way so well furnished as the blackies in Jamaica; and when we marched up through
a hot, sandy, unpaved street into the town, the low, one--story, shabby looking houses were
falling into decay, and the streets more resembled river--courses than thoroughfares, while
the large carrion crows were picking garbage on the very crown of the causeway, without apparently
entertaining the least fear of us, or of the negro children who were playing close to them,
so near, in fact, that every now and then one of the urchins would aim a blow at one of the
obscene birds, when it would give a loud discordant croak, and jump a pace or two, with outspread
wings, but without taking flight.  Still many of the women, who were sitting under the small
piazzas, or projecting eaves of the houses, with their little stalls, filled with pullicate
handkerchiefs, and pieces of muslin, and ginghams for sale, were healthy--looking, and appeared
comfortable and happy.  As we advanced into the town, almost every male we met was a soldier,
all rigged and well dressed, too, in the French uniform; in fact, the remarkable man, King
Henry, or Christophe, took care to have his troops well fed and clothed in every case.  On
our way we had to pass by the Commandant, Baron B----'s house, when it occurred to Captain
Transom that we ought to stop and pay our respects; but Mr Bang, being bound by no such etiquette,
bore up for his friend Monsieur B----'s.  As we approached the house--a long, low, one--story
building, with a narrow piazza, and a range of unglazed windows, staring open, with their wooden
shutters, like ports in a ship's side, towards the street--we found a sentry at the door, who,
when we announced ourselves, carried arms all in regular style.  Presently a very good looking
negro, in a handsome aide de--camp's uniform, appeared, and, hat in hand, with all the grace
in the world, ushered us into the presence of the Baron, who was lounging in a Spanish chair
half asleep, but on hearing us announced he rose, and received us with great amenity.  He was
a fat elderly negro, so far as I could judge, about sixty years of age, and was dressed in
very wide jean trowsers, over which a pair of well polished Hessian boots were drawn, which,
by adhering close to his legs, gave him, in contrast with the wide puffing of his garments
above, the appearance of being underlimbed, which he by no means was, being a stout old Turk.

After a profusion of congees and fine speeches, and superabundant assurances of the esteem
in which his master King Henry held our master King George, we made our bows and repaired to
Monsieur B----'s, where I was engaged to dine.  As for Captain Transom, he went on board that
evening to superintend the repairs of the ship.

There was no one to meet us but Monsieur B----and his daughter, a tall and very elegant brown
girl, who had been educated in France, and did the honours incomparably well.  We sat down,
Massa Aaron whispering in my lug, that in Jamaica it was not quite the thing to introduce brown
ladies at dinner; but, as he said, "Why not?  Neither you nor I are high caste creoles--so
en avant."

Dinner was nearly over, when Baron B----'s aide--de--camp slid into the room.  Monsieur B----rose.
"Captain Latour, you are welcome--be seated. I hope you have not dined?"

"Why no," said the negro officer, as he drew a chair, while he exchanged glances with the beautiful
Eugenie, and sat himself down close to el Senor Bang.

"Hillo, Quashie!  Whereaway, my lad? a little above the salt, an't you?" ejaculated our amigo;
while Pegtop, who had just come on shore, and was standing behind his master, stared and gaped
in the greatest wonderment. But Mr Bang's natural good breeding, and knowledge of the world,
instantly recalled him to time and circumstances; and when the young officer looked at him,
regarding him with some surprise, he bowed, and invited him, in the best French he could muster,
to drink wine.  The aide--de--camp was, as I have said, jet--black as the ace of spades, but
he was, notwithstanding, so far as figure went, a very handsome man tall and well made, especially
about the shoulders, which were beautifully formed, and, in the estimation of a statuary, would
probably have balanced the cucumber curve of the shin; his face, however, was regular negro--flat
nose, heavy lips, fine eyes, and beautiful teeth, and he wore two immense gold earrings.  His
woolly head was bound round with a pullicate handkerchief, which we had not noticed until he
took off his laced cocked hat.  His coat was the exact pattern of the French staff uniform
at the time--plain blue, without lace, except at the cape and cuffs, which were of scarlet
cloth, covered with rich embroidery. He wore a very handsome straight sword, with steel scabbard,
and the white trowsers, and long Hessian boots, already described as part of the costume of
his general.

Mr Bang, as I have said, had rallied by this time, and with the tact of a gentleman, appeared
to have forgotten whether his new ally was black, blue, or green, while the claret, stimulating
him into self possession, was evaporating in broken French.  But his man Pegtop had been pushed
off his balance altogether; his equanimity was utterly gone.  When the young officer brushed
past him, at the first go off, while he was rinsing some glasses in the passage, his sword
banged against Pegtop's derriere as he stooped down over his work.  He started and looked round,
and merely exclaimed--"Eigh, Massa Niger, wurra dat!" But now, when, standing behind his master's
chair, he saw the aide--de--camp consorting with him whom he looked upon as the greatest man
in existence, on terms of equality, all his faculties were paralysed.

"Pegtop," said I, "hand me some yam, if you please."

He looked at me all agape, as if he had been half strangled.

"Pegtop, you scoundrel," quoth massa Aaron, "don't you hear what Captain Cringle says, sir?"

"Oh yes, massa;" and thereupon the sable valet brought me a bottle of fish sauce, which he
endeavoured to pour into my wineglass.  All this while Eugenie and the aide--de--camp were
playing the agreeable--and in very good taste, too, let me tell you.

I had just drank wine with mine host, when I cast my eye along the passage that led out of
the room, and there was Pegtop dancing, and jumping, and smiting his thigh, in an ecstasy of
laughter, as he doubled himself up, with the tears welling over his cheeks.

"Oh, Lord!  Oh!--Massa Bang bow, and make face, and drink wine, and do every ting shivil, to
one dam black rascall nigger!--Oh, blackee more worser clan me, Gabriel Pegtop----Oh, Lard!--ha!
ha! ha!"--Thereupon he threw himself down in the piazza, amongst plates and dishes and shouted
and laughed in a perfect frenzy, until Mr Bang got up, and thrust the poor fellow out of doors,
in a pelting shower, which soon so far quelled the hysterical passion, that he came in again,
grave as a judge, and took his place behind his master's chair once more, and every thing went
on smoothly.  The aide de--camp, who appeared quite unconscious that he was the cause of the
poor fellow's mirth, renewed his attentions to Eugenie; and Mr Bang, Monsieur B----, and myself,
were again engaged in conversation, and our friend Pegtop was in the act of handing a slice
of melon to the black officer, when a file of soldiers, with fixed bayonets, stept into the
piazza, and ordered arms, one taking up his station on each side of the door.  Presently another
aide--de--camp, booted and spurred, dashed after them; and, as soon as he crossed the threshold,
sung out, "Place, pour Monsieur le Baron."

The electrical nerve was again touched--"Oh!--oh!--oh!  Caramighty! here comes anoder on dem,"
roared Pegtop, sticking the slice of melon, which was intended for Mademoiselle Eugenie, into
his own mouth, to quell the paroxysm, if possible, (while he fractured the plate on the black
aide's skull,) and immediately blew it out again, with an explosion, and a scattering of the
fragments, as if it had been the blasting of a stone quarry.

"Zounds, this is too much,"--exclaimed Bang, as he rose and kicked the poor fellow out again,
with such vehemence, that his skull, encountering the paunch of our friend the Baron, who was
entering from the street at that instant, capsized him outright, and away rolled his Excellency
the General de Division, Commandant de L'Arrondissement, &c. &c. digging his spurs into poor
Pegtop's transom, and sacring furiously, while the black servant roared as if he had been harpooned
by the very devil.  The aides started to their feet and one of them looked at Mr Bang, and
touched the hilt of his sword, grinding the word 'satisfaction' between his teeth, while the
other ordered the sentries to run the poor fellow, whose mirth had been so uproarious, through.
However, he got off with one or two brogues in a very safe place; and when Monsieur B----explained
how matters stood, and that the "pauvre diable," as the black Baron coolly called him, was
a mere servant, and an uncultivated creature, and that no insult was meant, we had all a hearty
laugh, and every thing rolled right again.  At length the Baron and his black tail rose to
wish us a good evening, and we were thinking of finishing off with a cigar and a glass of cold
grog, when Monsieur B----'s daughter returned into the piazza, very pale, and evidently much
frightened. "Mon pere," said she while her voice quavered from excessive agitation--"My father--why
do the soldiers remain?"

We all peered into the dark passage, and there, true enough, were the black sentries at their
posts beside the doorway, still and motionless as statues.  Monsieur B----, poor fellow, fell
back in his chair at the sight, as if he had been shot through the heart.

"My fate is sealed--I am lost--oh, Eugenie!" were the only words he could utter.

"No, no," exclaimed the weeping girl, "God forbid--the Baron is a kind hearted man--King Henry
cannot--no, no--he knows you are not disaffected, he will not injure you."

Here one of the black aides--de--camp suddenly returned.  It was the poor fellow who had been
making love to Eugenie during the entertainment.  He looked absolutely blue with dismay; his
voice shook, and his knees knocked together as he approached our host.

He tried to speak, but could not.  "Oh, Pierre, Pierre," moaned, or rather gasped Eugenie,
"what have you come to communicate? what dreadful news are you the bearer of?" He held out
an open letter to poor B----, who, unable to read it from excessive agitation, handed it to
me.  It ran thus:

"MONSIEUR LE BARON, Monsieur--has been arrested here this morning; he is a white Frenchman,
and there are strong suspicions against him.  Place his partner M. B----under the surveillance
of the police instantly.  You are made answerable for his safe custody."

"Witness his Majesty's hand and seal, at Sans Souci, this----"

The Count.

"Then I am doomed," groaned poor Mr B----.  His daughter fainted, the black officer wept, and
having laid his senseless mistress on a sofa, he approached and wrung B----'s hand.  "Alas,
my dear sir--how my heart bleeds!  But cheer up--King Henry is just--all may be right--all
may still be right; and so far as my duty to him will allow, you may count on nothing being
done here that is not absolutely necessary for holding ourselves blameless with the Government."

Enough and to spare of this.  We slept on shore that night, and a very neat catastrophe was
likely to have ensued thereupon.  Intending to go on board ship at daybreak, I had got up and
dressed myself, and opened the door into the street to let myself out, when I stumbled unwittingly
against the black sentry, who must have been half asleep, for he immediately stepped several
paces back, and presenting his musket, the clear barrel glancing in the moonlight, snapped
it at me. Fortunately it missed fire, which gave me time to explain that it was not M. B----,
attempting to escape; but that day week he was marched to the prison of La Force, near Cape
Henry, where his partner had been previously lodged; and from that hour to this, neither of
them were ever heard of.  Next evening I again went ashore, but I was denied admittance to
him; and, as my orders were imperative not to interfere in any way, I had to return on board
with a heavy heart.

The day following, Captain Transom and myself paid a formal I visit to the black Baron, in
order to leave no stone unturned to obtain poor B----'s release if we could.  Mr Bang accompanied
us.  We found the sable dignitary lounging in a grass hammock, (slung from corner to corner
of a very comfortless room, for the floor was tiled, the windows were unglazed, and there was
no furniture whatsoever but an old--fashioned mahogany sideboard and three wicker chairs) apparently
half--asleep, or ruminating after his breakfast.  On our being announced by a half--naked negro
servant, who aroused him, he got up and received us very kindly I beg his lordship's pardon,
I should write graciously--and made us take wine and biscuit, and talked and rattled; but I
saw he carefully avoided the subject which he evidently knew was the object of our visit. 
At length, finding it would be impossible for him to parry it much longer single--handed, with
tact worthy of a man of fashion, he called out "Marie!  Marie!" Our eyes followed his, and
we saw a young and very handsome brown lady rise, whom we had perceived seated at her work
when we first entered, in a small dark back porch, and advance after curtseying to us seriatim,
with great elegance, as the old fat niger introduced her to us as "Madame la Baronne."

"His wife?" whispered Aaron; "the old rank goat!"

Her brown ladyship did the honours of the wine--ewer with the perfect quietude and ease of
a well--bred woman.  She was a most lovely clear skinned quadroon girl.  She could not have
been twenty; tall and beautifully shaped.  Her long coal--black tresses were dressed high on
her head, which was bound round with the everlasting Madras handkerchief, in which pale blue
was the prevailing colour; but it was elegantly adjusted, and did not come down far enough
to shade the fine development of her majestic forehead--Pasta's in Semiramide was not more
commanding.  Her eyebrows were delicately arched and sharply defined, and her eyes of jet were
large and swimming; her nose had not utterly abjured its African origin, neither had her lips,
but, notwithstanding, her countenance shone with all the beauty of expression so conspicuous
in the Egyptian sphinx Abyssinian, but most sweet--while her teeth were as the finest ivory,
and her chin and throat, and bosom, as if her bust had been an antique statue of the rarest
workmanship.  The only ornaments she wore were two large virgin gold ear--rings, massive yellow
hoops without any carving, but so heavy that they seemed to weigh down the small thin transparent
ears which they perforated; and a broad black velvet band round her neck, to which was appended
a large massive crucifix of the same metal.  She also wore two broad bracelets of black velvet
clasped with gold.  Her beautifully moulded form was scarcely veiled by a cambric chemise,
with exceedingly short sleeves, over which she wore a rose--coloured silk petticoat, short
enough to display a finely formed foot and ankle, with a well--selected pearl white silk stocking,
and a neat low--cut French black kid shoe.  As for gown, she had none.  She wore a large--sparkling
diamond ring on her marriage finger, and we were all bowing before the deity, when our attention
was arrested by a cloud of dust at the top of the street, and presently a solitary black dragoon
sparked out from it, his accoutrements and headpiece blazing in the sun, then three more abreast,
and immediately a troop of five--and--twenty cavaliers, or thereabouts, came thundering down
the street.  They formed opposite the Baron's house, and I will say I never saw a better appointed
troop of horse anywhere.  Presently an aide--de--camp scampered up; and having arrived opposite
the door, dismounted, and entering, exclaimed, "Les Comtes de Lemonade et Marmalade."--"The
who?" said Mr Bang; but presently two very handsome young men of colour, in splendid uniforms,
rode up, followed by a glittering staff, of at least twenty mounted officers.  They alighted,
and entering, made their bow to Baron B----.  The youngest, the Count Lemonade, spoke very
decent English, and what between Mr Bang's and my bad, and Captain Transom's very good, French,
we all made ourselves agreeable. I may state here, that Lemonade and Marmalade are two districts
of the island of St Domingo, which had been pitched on by Christophe to give titles to two
of his fire--new nobility.  The grandees had come on a survey of the district, and although
we did not fail to press the matter of poor B----'s release, yet they either had no authority
to interfere in the matter, or they would not acknowledge that they had, so we reluctantly
took leave, and went on shipboard.

"Tom, you villain," said Mr Bang, as we stepped into the boat, "if my eye had caught yours
when these noblemen made their entree, I should have exploded with laughter, and most likely
have had my throat cut for my pains.  Pray, did his highness of Lemonade carry a punch--ladle
in his hand? I am sure I expected he of Marmalade to have carried a jelly can?  Oh, Tom, at
the moment I heard them announced, my dear old mother flitted before my mind's eye, with the
bright, well--scoured, large brass pans in the background, as she superintended her handmaidens
in their annual preservations."

After the fruitless interview, we weighed, and sailed for Port au Prince, where we arrived
the following evening.

I had heard much of the magnificence of the scenery in the Bight of Leogane, but the reality
far surpassed what I had pictured to myself. The breeze, towards noon of the following day,
had come up in a gentle air from the westward, and we were gliding along before it like a spread
eagle, with all our light sails abroad to catch the sweet zephyr, which was not even strong
enough to ruffle the silver surface of the landlocked sea, that glowed beneath the blazing
midday sun, with a dolphin here and there cleaving the shining surface with an arrowy ripple,
and a brown--skinned shark glaring on us, far down in the deep, clear, green profound, like
a water fiend, and a slow--sailing pelican overhead, after a long sweep on poised wing, dropping
into the sea like lead, and flashing up the water like the bursting of a shell, as we sailed
up into a glorious amphitheatre of stupendous mountains, covered with one eternal forest, that
rose gradually from the hot sandy plains that skirted the shore; while what had once been smiling
fields, and rich sugar plantations, in the long misty level districts at their bases, were
now covered with brushwood, fast rising up into one impervious thicket; and as the Island of
Conave closed in the view behind us to seaward, the sun sank beyond it, amidst rolling masses
of golden and blood--red clouds, giving token of a goodly day to--morrow, and gilding the outline
of the rocky islet (as if to a certain depth it had been transparent) with a golden halo, gradually
deepening into imperial purple.  Beyond the shadow of the tree--covered islet, on the left
hand, rose the town of Port--au--Prince, with its long streets rising like terraces on the
gently swelling shore, while the mountains behind it, still gold tipped in the declining sunbeams,
seemed to impend frowningly over it, and the shipping in the roadstead at anchor off the town
were just beginning to fade from our sight in the gradually increasing darkness, and a solitary
light began to sparkle in a cabin window and then disappear, and to twinkle for a moment in
the piazzas of the houses on shore like a will--of--the--wisp, and the chirping buzz of myriads
of insects and reptiles was coming off from the island a--stem of us, borne on the wings of
the light wind, which, charged with rich odours from the closing flowers, fanned us "like the
sweet south, soft breathing o'er a bed of violets," when a sudden flash and a jet of white
smoke puffed out from the hill--fort above the town, the report thundering amongst the everlasting
hills, and gradually rumbling itself away into the distant ravines and valleys, like a lion
growling itself to sleep, and the shades of night fell on the dead face of nature like a pall,
and all was undistinguishable.--When I had written thus far--it was at Port--au--Prince, at
Mr S----'s--Mr Bang entered--"Ah!  Tom--at the log, polishing--using the plane--shaping out
something for Ebony let me see."

Here our friend read the preceding paragraphs.  They did not please him.

"Don't like it, Tom."

"No?  Pray, why, my dear sir?--I have tried to" "Hold your tongue, my good boy."

"Cease, rude Boreas, blustering railer, List old ladies o'er your tea, At description Tom's
a tailor, When he is compared to me. Tooral looral loo."

"Attend--brevity is the soul of wit,--ahem.  Listen how I shall crush all your lengthy yam
into an eggshell.  'The Bight of Leogane is a horseshoe--Cape St Nicholas is the caulker on
the northern heel Cape Tiberoon, the ditto on the south--Port--au--Prince is the tip at the
toe towards the east--Conaives, Leogane, Petit Trouve, &c. &c. &c. are the nails, and the Island
of Gonave is the frog.' Now every human being who knows that a horse has four legs and a tail--of
course this includes all the human race, excepting tailors and sailors--must understand this
at once; it is palpable and plain, although no man could have put it so perspicuously, excepting
my friend William Cobbettt or myself.  By the way, speaking of horses, that blood thing of
the old Baron's nearly gave you your quietus t'other day, Tom.  Why will you always pass the
flank of a horse in place of going ahead of him, to use your own phrase? Never ride near a
led horse on passing when you can help it; give him a wide berth, or clap the groom's corpus
between you and his heels; and never, never go near the croup of any quadruped bigger than
a cat, for even a cow's is inconvenient, when you can by any possibility help it."

I laughed--"Well, well, my dear sir--but you undervalue my equestrian capability somewhat too,
for I do pretend to know that a horse has four legs and a tail."

There was no pleasing Aaron this morning, I saw.

"Then, Tummas, my man, you know a deuced deal more than I do.  As for the tail, conceditur--but
devilish few horses have four legs nowadays, take my word for it.  However, here comes Transom;
I am off to have a lounge with him, and I will finish the veterinary lecture at some more convenient
season.  Tol lol de rol."--Exit singing.

The morning after this I went ashore at daylight, and, guided by the sound of military music,
proceeded to the Place Republicain, or square before President Petion's palaces where I found
eight regiments of foot under arms, with their bands playing, and in the act of defiling before
General Boyer who commanded the arrondissement.  This was the garrison of Port--au--Prince,
but neither the personal appearance of the troops, nor their appointments, were at all equal
to those of King Henry's well dressed and well drilled cohorts that we saw at Conaives.  The
President's guards were certainly fine men, and a squadron of dismounted cavalry, in splendid
blue uniforms, with scarlet trowsers richly laced, might have vied with the elite of Nap's
own, barring the black faces. But the materiel of the other regiments was not superfine, as
M. Boyer, before whom they were defiling, might have said.

I went to breakfast with Mr S----, one of the English merchants of the place, a kind and most
hospitable man; and under his guidance, the Captain, Mr Bang, and I, proceeded afterwards to
call on Petion. Christophe, or King Henry, had some time before retired from the siege of Port--au--Prince,
and we found the town in a very miserable state. Many of the houses were injured from shot;
the President's palace, for instance, was perforated in several places, which had not been
repaired. In the antechamber you could see the blue heavens through the shot holes in the roof.--"Next
time I come to court, Tom," said Mr Bang, "I will bring an umbrella." Turning out of the parade,
we passed through a rickety, unpainted open gate, in a wall about six feet high; the space
beyond was an open green or grass--plot, parched and burned up by the sun, with a common fowl
here and there fluttering and hotching in the hole she had scratched in the and soil; but there
was neither sentry nor servant to be seen, nor any of the usual pomp and circumstance about
a great man's dwelling.  Presently we were in front of a long, low, one story building, with
a flight of steps leading up into an entrance hall, furnished with several gaudy sofas, and
half--a--dozen chairs with a plain wooden floor, on which a slight approach to the usual West
India polish had been attempted, but mightily behind the elegant domiciles of my Kingston friends
in this respect.  In the centre of this room stood three young officers, fair mulattoes, with
their plumed cocked--hats in their hands, and dressed very handsomely in French uniforms; and
it always struck me as curious, that men who hated the very name of Frenchman, as the devil
hates holy water, should copy all the customs and manners of the detested people so closely.
I may mention here once for all, that Petion's officers, who, generally speaking, were all
men of colour, and not negroes, were as much superior in education, and, I fear I must say,
in intellect, as they certainly were in personal appearance, to the black officers of King
Henry, as his soldiery were superior to those of the neighbouring black republic.

"Ah, Monsieur S----, comment vous portez vous? je suis bien aise de vous voir," said one of
the young officers; "how are you, how have you been?"

"Vous devenez tout a fait rare," quoth a second.  "Le President will be delighted to see you.
Why, he says he thought you must have been dead, and les messieurs La"

"Who?--introduce us."

It was done in due form--the Honourable Captain Transom, Captain Cringle of his Britannic Majesty's
schooner, Wave, and Aaron Bang, Esquire.  And presently we were all as thick as pickpockets.

"But come, the President will be delighted to see you." We followed the officer who spoke,
as he marshalled us along, and in an inner chamber, wherein there were also several large holes
in the ceiling through which the sun shone, we found President Petion, the black Washington,
sitting on a very old ragged sofa, amidst a confused mass of papers, dressed in a blue military
undress frock, white trowsers, and the everlasting Madras handkerchief bound round his brows.
He was much darker than I expected to have seen him, darker than one usually sees a mulatto,
or the direct cross between the negro and the white, yet his features were in no way akin to
those of an African.  His nose was as high, sharp, and well defined as that of any Hindoo I
ever saw in the Hoogly, and his hair was fine and silky.  In fact, dark as he was, he was at
least three removes from the African; and when I mention that he had been long in Europe--he
was even for a short space acting adjutant general of the army of Italy with Napoleon--his
general manner, which was extremely good, kind and affable, was not matter of so much surprise.

He rose to receive us with much grace, and entered into conversation with all the ease and
polish of a gentleman--"le me porte assez bien aujourd'hui; but I have been very unwell, M.
S----, so tell me the news." Early as it was, he immediately ordered in coffee; it was brought
by two black servants, followed by a most sylph--like girl, about twelve years of age, the
President's natural daughter; she was fairer than her father, and acquitted herself very gracefully.
She was rigged, pin for pin, like a little woman, with a perfect turret of artificial flowers
twined amongst the braids of her beautiful hair; and although her neck was rather overloaded
with ornaments, and her poor little ears were stretching under the weight of the heavy gold
and emerald earrings, while her bracelets were like manacles, yet I had never seen a more lovely
little girl.  She wore a frock of green Chinese crape, beneath which appeared the prettiest
little feet in the world.

We were invited to attend a ball in the evening, given in honour of the President's birthday,
and after a sumptuous dinner at our friend M. S----'s, we all adjourned to the gay scene. 
There was a company of grenadiers of the President's guard, with their band, on duty in front
of the palace, as a guard of honour; they carried arms as we passed, all in good style; and
at the door we met two aides de--camp in full dress, one of whom ushered us into an anteroom,
where a crowd of brown, with a sprinkling of black ladies, and a whole host of brown and black
officers, with a white foreign merchant here and there, were drinking coffee, and taking refreshments
of one kind or another.  The ladies were dressed in the very height of the newest Parisian
fashion of the day hats and feathers, and jewellery, real or fictitious, short sleeves, and
shorter petticoats fine silks, and broad blonde trimmings and flounces, and low--cut corsages--some
of them even venturing on rouge, which gave them the appearance of purple dahlias; but as to
manner, all lady--like and proper; while the men, most of them militaires, were as fine as
gold and silver lace, and gay uniforms, and dress--swords could make them and all was blaze,
and sparkle, and jingle; but the black officers, in general, covered their woolly pates with
Madras handkerchiefs, as if ashamed to show them, the brown officers alone venturing to show
their own hair.  Presently a military band struck up with a sudden crash in the inner--room,
and the large folding doors being thrown open, the ballroom lay before us, in the centre of
which stood the President, surrounded by his very splendid staff, with his daughter on his
arm.  He was dressed in a plain blue uniform, with gold epaulets, and acquitted himself extremely
well, conversing freely on European politics, and giving his remarks with great shrewdness,
and a very peculiar naivete. As for his daughter, however much she might appear to have been
overdressed in the morning, she was now simple in her attire as a little shepherdesses plain
white muslin frock, white sash, white shoes, white gloves, pearl ear--rings and necklace, and
a simple, but most beautiful, camilla japonica in her hair.  Dancing now commenced, and all
that I shall say is, that before I had been an hour in the room, I had forgotten whether the
faces around me were black, brown, or white; every thing was conducted with such decorum. 
However, I could see that the fine jet was not altogether the approved style of beauty, and
that many a very handsome woolly--headed belle was destined to ornament the walls, until a
few of the young white merchants made a dash amongst them, more for the fun of the thing, as
it struck me, than any thing else, which piqued some of the brown officers, and for the rest
of the evening blackee had it hollow. And there was friend Aaron waltzing with a very splendid
woman, elegantly dressed, but black as a coal, with long kid gloves, between which and the
sleeve of her gown, a space of two inches of the black skin, like an ebony armlet, was visible;
while her white dress, and rich white satin hat, and a lofty plume of feathers, with a pearl
necklace and diamond earrings, set off her loveliness most conspicuously.  At every wheel round
Mr Bang slewed his head a little on one side, and peeped in at one of her bright eyes, and
then tossing his cranium on t'other side, took a squint in at the other, and then cast his
eyes towards the roof, and muttered with his lips as if he had been shot all of a heap by the
blind boy's but--shaft; but every now and then as we passed, the rogue would stick his tongue
in his cheek, yet so slightly as to be perceptible to no one but myself.  After this heat,
Massa Aaron and myself were perambulating the ballroom, quite satisfied with our own prowess
and I was churming to myself, "Voulez vous dansez, mademoiselle"--"De tout mon coeur," said
a buxom brown dame, about eighteen stone by the coffee--mill in St James's Street.  That devil
Aaron gave me a look that I swore I would pay him for, the villain; as the extensive mademoiselle,
suiting the action to the word, started up, and hooked on, and as a cotillion had been called,
there I was, figuring away most emphatically, to Bang and Transom's great entertainment.  At
length the dance was at an end, And a waltz was once more called, and having done my duty,
I thought I might slip out between the acts; so I offered to hand my solid armful to her seat--"Certainement
vouz pouvez bien restez encore un moment."

The devil confound you and Aaron Bang, thought I--but waltz I must, and away we whirled until
the room spun round faster than we did, and when I was at length emancipated, my dark fair
and fat one whispered, in a regular die--away, "J'espere vous revoir bientot." All this while
there was a heavy firing of champagne and other corks, and the fun grew so fast and furious,
that I remembered very little more of the matter, until the morning breeze whistled through
my muslin curtains, or musquitto net, about noon on the following day.

I arose, and found mine host setting out to bathe at Madame Le Clerc's bath, at Marquesan.
I rode with him; and after a cool dip we breakfasted with President Petion at his country--house
there, and met with great kindness.  About the house itself there was nothing particularly
to distinguish it from many others in the neighbourhood; but the little statues, and fragments
of marble steps, and detached portions of old fashioned wrought--iron railing, which had been
grouped together, so as to form an ornamental terrace below it, facing the sea, showed that
it had been a compilation from the ruins of the houses of the rich French planters, which were
now blackening in the sun on the plain of Leogane. A couple of Buenos Ayrean privateers were
riding at anchor in the bight just below the windows, manned, as I afterwards found, by Americans.
The President, in his quiet way, after contemplating them through his glass, said, "Ces pavilions
sont bien neuf."

The next morning, as we were pulling in my gig, no less a man than Massa Aaron steering, to
board the Arethusa, one of the merchantmen lying at anchor off the town, we were nearly run
down by getting athwart the bows of an American schooner standing in for the port.  As it was,
her cutwater gave us so smart a crack that I thought we were done for; but our Palinurus, finding
he could not clear her, with his inherent self possession put his helm to port, and kept away
on the same course as the schooner, so that we got off with the loss of our two larboard oars,
which were snapped off like parsnips, and a good heavy bump that nearly drove us into staves.

"Never mind, my dear sir, never mind," said I; "but hereafter listen to the old song:"

'Steer clear of the stem of a sailing ship.'

"Massa Aaron was down on me like lightning"

"Or the stern of a kicking horse, Tom."

While I continued--

'Or you a wet jacket may catch, and a dip.'

He again cleverly clipped the word out of my mouth,

"Or a kick on the croup, which is worse, Tom."

"Why, my dear sir, you are an improvisatore of the first quality."

We  rowed ashore, and nothing particular happened that day, until we sat down  to  dinner 
at Mr S--'s.  We had a very agreeable party.   Captain Transom and Mr Bang were, as usual,
the life of the company; and it  was verging  towards  eight o'clock in the evening, when an
English  sailor, apparently belonging to the merchant service, came into the piazza,  and planted
himself opposite to the window where I sat.

He  made  various nautical salaams, until he had attracted my attention. "Excuse  me,"  I 
said to Mr S----, "there is some  one  in  the  piazza wanting me." I rose.

"Are you Captain Transom?" said the man.

"No, I am not.  There is the Captain; do you want him?"

"If you please, sir," said the man.

I called my superior officer into the narrow dark piazza.

"Well, my man," said Transom, "what want you with me?"

"I am sent, sir, to you from the Captain of the Haytian ship, the E----, to request a visit
from you, and to ask for a prayer book."

"A what?" said Transom.

"A prayer book, sir.  I suppose you know that he and the Captain of that other  Haytian  ship,
the  P----, are condemned  to  be  shot  tomorrow morning."

"I know nothing of all this," said Transom.  "Do you, Cringle?"

"No, sir," said I.

"Then let us adjourn to the dining room again; or, stop, ask Mr S----and Mr Bang to step--here
for a moment."

They  appeared;  and  when  Transom explained  the  affair,  so  far  as consisted with his
knowledge, Mr S----told us that the two unfortunates in  question were, one of them, a Guernsey
man, and the other a  man  of colour, a native of St Vincent's, whom the President had promoted
to the command  of two Haytian ships that had been employed in carrying  coffee to  England;
but  on their last return voyage, they  had  introduced  a quantity  of  base Birmingham coin
into the Republic; which fact  having been  proved on their trial, they had been convicted
of treason  against the  state,  condemned, and were now under sentence of  death;  and  the
government being purely military, they were to be shot tomorrow morning. A  boat  was  immediately
sent on board, the messenger returned  with  a prayer book; and we prepared to visit the miserable
men.

Mr Bang insisted on joining us--ever first where misery was to be relieved--and we proceeded
towards the prison.  Following the sailor, who was the mate of one of the ships, presently
we arrived before the door of the place where the unfortunate men were confined.  We were speedily
admitted; but the building had none of the common appurtenances of a prison.  There were neither
long galleries, nor strong ironbound and clamped doors, to pass through; nor jailers with rusty
keys jingling; nor fetters clanking; for we had not made two steps past the black grenadiers
who guarded the door, when a sergeant showed us into a long ill--lighted room, about thirty
feet by twelve--in truth, it was more like a gallery than a room--with the windows into the
street open, and no precautions taken, apparently at least, to prevent the escape of the condemned.
In truth, if they had broken forth, I imagine the kind hearted President would not have made
any very serious enquiry as to the how.

There was a small rickety old card table, covered with tattered green cloth, standing in the
middle of the floor, which was composed of dirty unpolished pitch pine planks, and on this
table glimmered two brown wax candles, in old fashioned brass candlesticks.  Between us and
the table, forming a sort of line across the floor, stood four black soldiers, with their muskets
at their shoulders, while beyond them sat, in old fashioned armchairs, three figures, whose
appearance I never can forget.

The man fronting us rose on our entrance.  He was an uncommonly handsome elderly personage;
his age I should guess to have been about fifty.  He was dressed in white trowsers and shirt,
and wore no coat; his head was very bald, but he had large and very dark whiskers and eyebrows,
above which towered a most splendid forehead, white, massive, and spreading. His eyes were
deep--set and sparkling, but he was pale, very pale, and his fine features were sharp and pinched.
He sat with his hands clasped together, and resting on the table, his fingers twitching to
and fro convulsively, while his under jaw had dropped a little, and from the constant motion
of his head, and the heaving of his chest, it was clear that he was breathing quick and painfully.

The figure on his right hand was altogether a more vulgar--looking personage.  He was a man
of colour, his caste being indicated by his short curly black hair, and his African descent
vouched for by his obtuse features; but he was composed and steady in his bearing.  He was
dressed in white trowsers and waistcoat, and a blue surtout; and on our entrance he rose, and
remained standing.  But the person on the elder prisoner's left hand riveted my attention more
than either of the other two.  She was a respectable looking, little, thin woman, but dressed
with great neatness, in a plain black silk gown.  Her sharp features were high and well formed;
her eyes and mouth were not particularly noticeable, but her hair was most beautiful--her long
shining auburn hair--although she must have been forty years of age, and her skin was like
the driven snow.  When we entered, she was seated on the left hand of the eldest prisoner,
and was lying back on her chair, with her arms crossed on her bosom, her eyes wide open, and
staring upwards towards the roof, with the tears coursing each other down over her cheeks,
while her lower jaw had fallen down, as if she had been dead--her breathing was scarcely perceptible--her
bosom remaining still as a frozen sea, for the space of a minute, when she would draw a long
breath, with a low moaning noise, to which succeeded a convulsive crowing gasp, like a child
in the hooping--cough, and all would be still again.

At length Captain Transom addressed the elder prisoner.  "You have sent for us, Mr----what
can we do for you, in accordance with our duty as English officers?"

The poor man looked at us with a vacant stare--but his fellow sufferer instantly spoke.  "Gentlemen,
this is kind--very kind.  I sent my mate to borrow a prayer book from you, for our consolation
now must flow from above--man cannot comfort us."

The female, who was the elder prisoner's wife, suddenly leant forward in her chair, and peered
intently into Mr Bang's face "Prayer book," said she--"prayer book--why, I have a prayer book
I will go for my prayer book"--and she rose quickly from her seat,

"Restez"--quoth the black sergeant--the word seemed to rouse her--she laid her head on her
hands, on the table, and sobbed out as if her heart were bursting--"Oh God! oh God! is it come
to this--is it come to this?" the frail table trembling beneath her, with her heart crushing
emotion. His wife's misery now seemed to recall the elder prisoner to himself. He made a strong
effort, and in a great degree recovered his composure.

"Captain Transom," said he, "I believe you know our story.  That we have been justly condemned
I admit, but it is a fearful thing to die, Captain, in a strange country, and by the hands
of these barbarians, and to leave my own dear"--Here his voice altogether failed him--presently
he resumed.  "The Government have sealed up my papers and packages, and I have neither Bible
nor prayer book--will you spare us the use of one, or both, for this night, sir?"

The Captain said, he had brought a prayer book, and did all he could to comfort the poor fellows.
But, alas! their grief "knew not consolation's name."

Captain Transom read prayers, which were listened to by both of the miserable men with the
greatest devotion, while all the while, the poor woman never moved a muscle, every faculty
appearing to be once more frozen up by grief and misery.  At length, the elder prisoner again
spoke. "I know I have no claim on you, gentlemen; but I am an Englishman at least I hope I
may call myself an Englishman, and my wife there is an Englishwoman--when I am gone oh, gentlemen,
what is to become of her? If I were but sure that she would be cared for, and enabled to return
to her friends, the bitterness of death would be past." Here the poor woman threw herself round
her husband's neck, and gave a shrill sharp cry, and relaxing her hold, fell down across his
knees, with her head hanging back, and her face towards the roof, in a dead faint.  For a minute
or two, the husband's sole concern seemed to be the condition of his wife.

"I will undertake that she shall be sent safe to England, my good man," said Mr Bang.

The felon looked at him--drew one hand across his eyes, which were misty with tears, held down
his head, and again looked up at length he found his tongue.  "That God who rewardeth good
deeds here, that God whom I have offended, before whom I must answer for my sins by daybreak
to morrow, will reward you--I can only thank you." He seized Mr Bang's hand and kissed it.

With heavy hearts we left the miserable group, and I may mention here, that Mr Bang was as
good as his word, and paid the poor woman's passage home, and, so far as I know, she is now
restored to her family.

We slept that night at Mr S----'s, and as the morning dawned we mounted our horses, which our
worthy host had kindly desired to be ready, in order to enable us to take our exercise in the
cool of the morning.  As we rode past the Place d'armes, or open space in front of the President's
palace, we heard sounds of military music, and asked the first chance passenger what was going
on.  "Execution militaire; or rather," said the man, "the two sea captains, who introduced
the base money, are to be shot this morning--there against the rampart." Of the fact we were
aware, but we did not dream that we had ridden so near the whereabouts.

"Ay, indeed?"--said Mr Bang.  He looked towards the Captain.  "My dear Transom, I have no wish
to witness so horrible a sight, but still--what say you--shall we pull up, or ride on?"

The truth was that Captain Transom and myself were both of us desirous of seeing the execution--from
what impelling motive, let learned blockheads, who have never gloated over a hanging, determine;
and quickly it was determined that we should wait and witness it.

First advanced a whole regiment of the President's guards, then a battalion of infantry of
the line, close to which followed a whole bevy of priests clad in white, which contrasted conspicuously
with their brown and black faces.  After them marched two firing parties of twelve men each,
drafted indiscriminately, as it would appear, from the whole garrison; for the grenadier cap
was there intermingled with the glazed shako of the battalion company, and the light morion
of the dismounted dragoon.  Then came the prisoners.  The elder culprit, respectably clothed
in white shirt, waistcoat, and trowsers, and blue coat, with an Indian silk yellow handkerchief
bound round his head.  His lips were compressed together with an unnatural firmness, and his
features were sharpened like those of a corpse.  His complexion was ashy blue.  His eyes were
half shut, but every now and then he opened them wide, and gave a startling rapid glance about
him, and occasionally he staggered a little in his gait.  As he approached the place of execution,
his eyelids fell, his under--jaw dropped, his arms hung dangling by his side like empty sleeves;
still he walked on, mechanically keeping time, like an automaton, to the measured tread of
the soldiery.  His fellow sufferer followed him.  His eye was bright, his complexion healthy,
his step firm, and he immediately recognised us in the throng, made a bow to Captain Transom,
and held out his hand to Mr Bang, who was nearest to him, and shook it cordially.  The procession
moved on.  The troops formed into three sides of a square, the remaining one being the earthen
mound, that constituted the rampart of the place.  A halt was called. The two firing parties
advanced to the sound of muffled drums, and having arrived at the crest of the glacis, right
over the counterscarp, they halted on what, in a more regular fortification, would have been
termed the covered way.  The prisoners, perfectly unfettered, advanced between them, stepped
down with a firm step into the ditch, led each by a grenadier.  In the centre of it they turned
and kneeled, neither of their eyes being bound.  A priest advanced, and seemed to pray with
the brown man fervently; another offered spiritual consolation to the Englishman, who seemed
now to have rallied his torpid faculties, but he waved him away impatiently, and taking a book
from his bosom, seemed to repeat a prayer from it with great fervour.  At this very instant
of time, Mr Bang caught his eye.  He dropped the book on the ground, placed one hand on his
heart, while he pointed upwards towards heaven with the other, calling out in a loud clear
voice, "Remember!" Aaron bowed.  A mounted officer now rode quickly up to the brink of the
ditch, and called out, "Depechez."

The priests left the miserable men, and all was still as death for a minute.  A low solitary
tap of the drum--the firing parties came to the recover, and presently taking the time from
the sword of the staff officer who had spoken, came down to the present, and fired a rattling,
straggling volley.  The brown man sprang up into the air three or four feet, and fell dead;
he had been shot through the heart; but the white man was only wounded, and had fallen, writhing,
and struggling, and shrieking, to the ground. I heard him distinctly call out, as the reserve
of six men stepped into the ditch, "Dans la tete dans la tete." One of the grenadiers advanced,
and, putting his musket close to his face, fired.  The ball splashed into his skull, through
the left eye, setting fire to his hair and clothes, and the handkerchief bound round his head,
and making the brains and blood flash up all over his face, and the person of the soldier who
had given him the coup de grace.

A strong murmuring noise, like the rushing of many waters, growled amongst the ranks and the
surrounding spectators, while a short sharp exclamation of horror every now and then gushed
out shrill and clear, and fearfully distinct above the appalling monotony.

The miserable man stretched out his legs and arms straight and rigidly, a strong shiver pervaded
his whole frame, his jaw fell, his muscles relaxed, and he and his brother in calamity became
a portion of the bloody clay on which they were stretched.

BYRON, CHILDE HAROLD, IV 1603--11.

I  had  been invited to breakfast on board the corvette, on the  morning after  this;  and
Captain Transom, Mr Bang, and myself, were comfortably seated at our meal on the quarterdeck,
under the awning, skreened off by flags from the view of the men.  The ship was riding to a
small westerly breeze,  that was rippling up the bight.  The ports on each quarter,  as well
as  the  two  in the stern, were open, through  which  we  had  an extensive view of Port--au--Prince,
and the surrounding country.

"Now, Transom," said our amigo Massa Aaron, "I am quite persuaded that the town astern of us
there must always have been, and is now, exceedingly unhealthy.  Only reflect on its situation;
it fronts the west, with the hot sickening afternoon's sun blazing on it every evening, along
the glowing mirror of the calm bight, under whose influence the fat black mud that composes
the beach must send up most pestilent effluvia; while in the forenoon it is shut out from the
influence of the regular easterly sea--breeze, or trade--wind, by the high land behind.  However,
as I don't mean to stay here longer than I can help, it is not my affair; and as Mr. S----will
be waiting for us, pray order your carriage, my dear fellow, and let us go on shore."

The carriage our friend spoke of, was the captain's gig, by this time alongside, ready manned,
each of the six seamen who composed her crew, with his oar resting between his knees, the blade
pointed upwards towards the sky.  We all go in "Shove off" dip fell the oars into the water
"Give way, men" the good ash staves groaned, and cheeped, and the water buzzed, and away we
shot towards the wharf.  We landed, and having proceeded to Mr S---'s, we found horses ready
for us, to take our promised ride into the beautiful plain of the Cul de Sac, lying to the
northward and eastward of the town; the cavalcade being led by Massa Aaron and myself, while
Mr S----rode beside Captain Transom.

Aforetime, from the estates situated on this most magnificent plain, (which extends about fifteen
miles into the interior, while its width varies from ten to five miles, being surrounded by
hills on three sides,) there used to be produced no less than thirty thousand hogsheads of
sugar.  This was during the ancient regime; whereas, now, I believe, the only articles it yields
beyond plantains, yams, and pot herbs for the supply of the town, are a few gallons of syrup,
and a few puncheons of tafla, a very inferior kind of rum.  The whole extent of the sea like
plain, for there is throughout scarcely any inequality higher than my staff, was once covered
with well--cultivated fields and happy homes; but now, alas! with brushwood from six to ten
feet high,--in truth, by one sea of jungle, through which you have to thread your difficult
way along narrow, hot, sandy bridle--paths, (with the sand flies and musquittoes flaying you
alive,) which every now and then lead you to some old ruinous court--yard, with the ground
strewed with broken boilers and mill--rollers, and decaying hardwood timbers, and crumbling
bricks; while, a little further on, you shall find the blackened roofless walls of what was
most probably an unfortunate planter's once happy home, where the midnight brigand came and
found peace and comfort, and all the elegancies of life, and left--blood and ashes; with the
wild flowers growing on the window sills, and the prickly pear on the tops of the walls, while
marble steps, and old shutters, and window hinges, and pieces of china, are strewn all about;
the only tenant now being most likely an old miserable negro who has sheltered himself in a
coarsely thatched hut, in a corner of what had once been a gay and well furnished saloon.

After having extended our ride, under a hot broiling sun, until two o'clock in the afternoon,
we hove about, and returned towards the town. We had not ridden on our homeward journey above
three miles, when we overtook a tall good--looking negro, dressed in white Osnaburg trowsers,
rolled up to his knees, and a check shirt.  He wore neither shoes nor stockings, but his head
was bound round with the usual handkerchief, over which he wore a large glazed cocked hat,
with a most conspicuous Haytian blue--and--red cockade.  He was goading on a jackass before
him, loaded with a goodly burden apparently; but what it was we could not tell, as the whole
was covered by a large sheepskin, with the wool outermost. I was pricking past the man, when
Mr S----sung out to me to shorten sail, and the next moment he startled me by addressing the
pedestrian as Colonel Gabaroche.  The colonel returned the salute, and seemed in no way put
out from being detected in this rather unmilitary predicament.  He was going up to Port--au--Prince
to take his turn of duty with his regiment.  Presently up came another half--naked black fellow,
with the same kind of glazed hat and handkerchief under it; but he was mounted, and his nag
was not a bad one by any means.  It was Colonel Gabaroche's Captain of Grenadiers, Papotiere
by name.  He was introduced to us, and we all moved jabbering along.  At the time I write of,
the military force of the Haytian Republic was composed of one third of the whole male population
capable of bearing arms, which third was obliged to be on permanent duty for four months every
year; but the individuals of the quota were allowed to follow their callings as merchants,
planters, or agriculturists, during the remaining eight months; they were, I believe, fed by
Government during their four months of permanent duty.  The weather, by the time we had ridden
a couple of miles farther, began to lower, and presently, large heavy drops of rain fell, and
preserving their globular shape, rolled like peas, or rather like bullets, amidst the small
finely pulverized dust of the sandy path. "Umbrella" was the word--but this was a luxury unknown
to our military friends.  However, the colonel immediately unfurled a blanket from beneath
the sheepskin, and sticking his head through a hole in the centre of it, there he stalked like
a herald in his tabard, with the blanket hanging down before and behind him.  As for the captain
he dismounted, disencumbered himself of his trowsers, which he crammed under the mat that served
him for a saddle, and taking off his shirt, he stowed it away in the capacious crown of his
cocked hat, while he once more bestrid his Bucephalus in puris naturalibus, but conversing
with all the ease in the world, and the most perfect sangfroid, while the thunder shower came
down in bucketfuls.  In about half an hour, we arrived at the skirt of the brushwood or jungle,
and found on our left hand some rice fields, which from appearance we could not have distinguished
from young wheat; but on a nearer approach, we perceived that the soil, if soil it could be
called on which there was no walking, was a soft mud, the only passages through the fields,
and along the ridges, being by planks, on which several of the labourers were standing as we
passed, one of whom turning to look at us, slipped off, and instantly sunk amidst the rotten
slime up to his waist.  The neighbourhood of these rice swamps is generally extremely unhealthy.
At length we got on board the Firebrand, drenched to the skin, to a late dinner, after which
it was determined by Captain Transom--of which intention, by the by, with all his familiarity,
I had not the smallest previous notice--that I should cross the island to Jacmel, in order
to communicate with the merchant--ships loading there; and by the time I returned, it was supposed
the Firebrand would be ready for sea, when I was to be detached in the Wave, to whip in the
craft at the different out ports, after which we were all to sail in a fleet to Port Royal.

"I say, skipper," quoth Mr Bang, "I have a great mind to ride with Tom what say you?"

"Why, Aaron, you are using me ill; that shaver is seducing you altogether; but come, you won't
be a week away, and if you want to go, I see no objection."

It was fixed accordingly, and on the morrow Mr Bang and I completed our arrangements, hired
horses, and a guide, and all being in order, clothes packed, and every thing else made ready
for the cruise, we rode out along with Mr S----(we were to dine and sleep at his house) to
view the fortifications on the hill above the town, the site of Christophe's operations when
he besieged the place; and pretty hot work they must have had of it, for in two different places
the trenches of the besiegers had been pushed on to the very crest of the glacis, and in one
the counterscarp had been fairly blown into the ditch, disclosing the gallery of the mine behind,
as if it had been a cave, the crest of the glacis having remained entire.  We walked into it,
and Mr S----pointed out where the President's troops, in Fort Republicain, had countermined,
and absolutely entered the other chamber from beneath, after the explosion, and, sword in hand,
cut off the storming party, (which had by this time descended into the ditch,) and drove them
up through the breach into the fort, where they were made prisoners.

The assault had been given three times in one night, and he trembled for the town; however,
Petion's courage and indomitable resolution saved them all.  For by making a sally from the
south gate at grey dawn, even when the firing on the hill was hottest, and turning the enemy's
flank, he poured into the trenches, routed the covering party, stormed the batteries, spiked
the guns, and that evening's sun glanced on the bayonets of King Henry's troops as they raised
the siege, and fell back in great confusion on their lines, leaving the whole of their battering
train, and a great quantity of ammunition, behind them.

Next morning we were called at daylight, and having accoutred ourselves for the journey, we
descended and found two stout ponies, the biggest not fourteen hands high, ready saddled, with
old fashioned demi piques, and large holsters at each of the saddlebows.  A very stout mule
was furnished for Monsieur Pegtop; and our black guide, who had contracted for our transit
across the island, was also in attendance, mounted on a very active, well--actioned horse.
We had coffee, and started.  By the time we reached Leogane, the sun was high and fierce. 
Here we breakfasted in a low one--story building, our host being no smaller man than Major
L----of the Fourth Regiment of the line.  We got our chocolate, and eggs, and fricasseed fowl,
and roasted yam, and in fact made, even according to friend Aaron's conception of matters,
an exceedingly comfortable breakfast.

Mr Bang here insisted on being paymaster, and tendered a sum that the black major thought so
extravagantly great, considering the entertainment we had received, that he declined taking
more than one half.  However, Mr Bang, after several unavailing attempts to press the money
on the man, who, by the by, was simply a good looking blackamoor, dressed in a check shirt,
coarse but clean white duck trowsers, with the omnipresent handkerchief bound round his head,
and finding that he could not persist without giving offence, was about pocketing the same,
when Pegtop audibly whispered him, "Massa, you ever shee black niger refuse money before? but
don't take it to heart, massa; me, Pegtop, will pocket him, if dat foolis black person won't."

"Thank you for nothing, Master Pegtop," said Aaron.

We proceeded, and rode across the beautiful plain, gradually sloping up from the mangrove--covered
beach, until it swelled into the first range of hills that formed the pedestal of the high
precipitous ridge that intersected the southern prong of the island, winding our way through
the ruins of sugar plantations, with fragments of the machinery and implements employed in
the manufacture scattered about, and half sunk into the soil of the fields, which were fast
becoming impervious jungle, and interrupting our progress along the narrow bridle--paths. 
At length we began to ascend, and the comparative coolness of the climate soon evinced that
we were rapidly leaving the hot plains, as the air became purer, and thinner, at every turn.
After a long, hot, hot ride, we reached the top of the ridge, and turning back had a most magnificent
view of the whole Bight of Leogane, and of the Horseshoe, and Aaron's Frog; even the tops of
the mountains above the Mole, which could not have been nearer than seventy miles, were visible,
floating like islands or blue clouds in the misty distance.  Aaron took off his hat, reined
up, and turning the head of his Bucephalus towards the placid waters we had left, stretched
forth his hand:

'Ethereal air, and ye swift--winged winds, Ye rivers springing from fresh founts, ye waves
That o'er the  interminable ocean wreathe Your crisped smiles, thou all--producing Earth, And
thee, bright Sun, I call, whose flaming orb Views the wide world beneath. See!'

Nearly got a stroke of the sun, Tom--what Whiffle would call a cul de sac by taking off my
chapeau in my poetical frenzy  so shove on.

We continued our journey through most magnificent defiles, and under long avenues of the most
superb trees, until, deeply embosomed in the very heart of the eternal forest, we came to a
shady clump of bamboos, overhanging, with their ostrich--feather--like plumes, a round pool
of water, mantled or creamed over with a bright green coating, as if it had been vegetable
velvet, but nothing akin to the noisome scum that ferments on a stagnant pool in England. 
It was about the time we had promised ourselves dinner, and in fact our black guide and Pegtop
had dismounted, to make their preparations.

"Why, we surely cannot dine here? you don't mean to drink of that stagnant pool, my dear sir?"

"Siste paulisper, my boy," said Mr Bang, as he stooped down, and skimmed off the green covering
with his hand, disclosing the water below, pure and limpid as a crystal--clear fountain.  We
dined on the brink, and discussed a bottle of vin--de--grave a--piece, and then had a small
pull at brandy and water; but we ate very little, although I was very hungry, but Mr Bang would
not let me feed largely.

"Now, Tom, you really do not understand things.  When one rides a goodish journey on end--say
seventy miles or so--on the same horse, one never feeds the trusty creature with half a bushel
of oats; at least if any wooden spoon does, the chances are he knocks him up. No, no--you give
him a mouthful of corn, but plenty to drink, little meal and water here, and a bottle of porter
in water there, and he brings you in handsomely.  Zounds! how would you yourself, Tom, like
to dine on turtle soup and venison, in the middle of a hissing hot ride of sixty miles, thirty
of them to be covered after the feed?  Lord! what between the rich food and the punch, you
would have fermented like a brewer's vat before you reached the end of the journey; and if
you had not a boll imperial measure of carbonate of soda with you, the chances are you would
explode like a catamaran, your head flying through some old woman's window, and capsizing her
teapot on the one hand, while on the other your four quarters are scattered north, south, east,
and west. But Gaudeamus, sweet is pleasure after pains Tom, and all you sailors and tailors--I
love to class you together--are tender--not hearted creatures.  Strange now that there should
be three classes of his Majesty's subjects, who never can be taught to ride,--to whom riding
is, in fact, a physical impossibility; and these three are the aforesaid sailors and tailors,
and dragoon officers.  However, hand me the brandy bottle; and, Pegtop, spate me that black
jack that you are rinsing--so. Useful commodity, a cup of this kind." here our friend dashed
in a large qualifier of cognac, "it not only conceals the quality of the water, for you can
sometimes perceive the animalculae hereabouts without a microscope, but also the strength of
the libation.  So--a piece of biscuit now, and the smallest morsel of that cold tongue--your
health, Thomas"--a long pull--"speedy promotion to you, Thomas." Here our friend rested the
jug on his knee.  "Were you ever at a Gaudeamus of Presbyterian clergymen on the Monday after
the Sacrament Sunday, Tom, that is, at the dinner at the manse?"

"No, my dear sir; you know I am an Episcopalian."

"And I am a Roman Catholic.  What then?  I have been at a Gaudeamus, and why might not you
have been at one too?  Oh the fun of such a meeting! the feast of reason, and the flow of Ferintosh,
I and the rich stories, ay, fatter than ever I would venture on, and the cricket--like chirps
of laughter of the probationer, and the loud independent guffaw of the placed minister, and
the sly innuendos about the land round the Jordan, when our freens get half foo.  Oh how I
honour a Gaudeamus!  And why," he continued, "should the excellent men not rejoice, Tom?  Are
they not the very men who should be happy?  Is a minister to be for ever boxed up in his pulpit--for
ever to be wagging his pow, bald, black, or grizzled as it may be, beneath his sounding board,
like a bullfrog below a toadstool.  And like the aforesaid respectable quadruped or biped (it
has always puzzled me which to call it), is he never to drink any thing stronger than water?
If you prick them, do they not bleed?  If you tickle them, do they not laugh? And shall we
grudge them a Caudeamus now and then?  Shall opera peracta ludemus be in the mouths of an mankind,
from the dirty little greasy--faced schoolboy, who wears a red gown and learns the Humanities
and Whiggery in the Nineveh of the West, I as the Bailie glories to call it, to the King upon
his throne, and a dead letter, as well as a dead language, to them, and them only? Forbid it,
the Honourable the Lord Provost--forbid it, the Honourable the Lord Provost and all the Bailies,
and those who sit in Council with them!  Forbid it,--the whole august aggregate of terror to
evildoers, and praise of them who do well!  Forbid it, the Devil and Dr Faustus!"

By this time I had smuggled the jug out of our amigo's claw, and had done honour to his pledge.
"Do you know, my dear Mr Bang, I have always been surprised that a man of your strong intellect,
and clear views of most matters, should continue, in profession at least, a Roman Catholic?"

Aaron looked at me with a seriousness, an unaffected seriousness in his manner, that possessed
me with the notion that I had taken an unwarrantable liberty.  "Profession," at length said
he, slowly and deliberately, apparently weighing every word carefully as it fell from him,
as one is apt to do when approaching an interesting subject, on which you desire not to be
misunderstood--"Profession--what right have you to assume this of me or any man, that my mode
of faith is but profession?" and then the kind--hearted fellow, perceiving that his rebuke
had mortified me, altering his tone, continued, but still with a strong tinge of melancholy
in his manner--"Alas!  Tom, how often will weak man, in his great arrogance, assume the prerogative
of his Maker, and attempt to judge--honestly, we will even allow, according to his conception--of
the heart and secret things of another, but too often, in reality, by the evil scale of his
own!  Shall the potsherd say to his frail fellow, Thou art weak, but I am strong? Shall the
moudiewort say to his brother mole--(I say, Quashie, mind that mule of yours don't snort in
the water, will ye?)--Blind art thou, but lo, I see? Ah, Tom, I am a Roman Catholic; but is
it thou who shalt venture down into the depths of my heart, and then say, whether I be so in
profession only, or in stern unswerving sincerity?"

I found I had unwittingly touched a string that vibrated to his heart. "I am a Roman Catholic,
but, I humbly trust, not a bigoted one; for were it not against the canons of both our churches,
I fear I should incline to the doctrine of Pope."

'He can't be wrong whose life is in the right.'

"My fathers, Tom, were all Catholics before me; they may have been wrong; but  I am only my
father's son--not a better, and, I fear, I fear, not so  wise  a man.--Pray, Tom, did you ever
hear of even a good Jew,  who, being converted, did not become a bad Christian?  Have you not
all  your life  had a repugnance to consort with a sinner converted from the faith of  his
fathers,  whether  they  were  Jews  or  Gentiles,  Hindoos  or Mahomedans, dwellers in Mesopotamia,
or beyond Jordan?  You have such  a repugnance, Tom, I know; and I have it too."

"Well," I proceeded, on the strength of the brandy grog, "in the case of an  unenlightened,
or ignorant, or half--educated man,  I  might  indeed suspect duplicity, or even hypocrisy,
at the bottom of the abjuration of his  fathers  creed;  but  in  a  gentleman  of  your  acquirements
and knowledge"

"There  again  now,  Cringle, you are wrong.  The  clodhopper  might  be conscientious in a
change of creed, but as to the advantage I have  over him  from superior knowledge!--Knowledge,
Tom! what do I know--what does the greatest and the best of us know--to venture on a saying
somewhat of the tritest--but that he knows nothing?  Oh, my dear boy, you and I have hitherto
consorted together on the deck of life, so to speak, with  the bright joyous sun sparkling,
and the blue heavens laughing overhead, and the  clear  green sea dancing under foot, and the
merry  breeze  buzzing past us right cheerily.  We have seen but the fair--weather side of
each other,  Thomas,  without  considering  that  all  men  have  their  deep feelings, that
lie far, far down in the hold of their hearts, were  they but  stirred up.  Ay, you smile at
my figures, but I repeat  it--in  the deep  hold  of  their hearts; and may I not follow out
the  image  with verity  and  modesty, and say that those feelings, often  too  deep  for tears,
are  the ballast that keeps the whole ship in trim, and  without which  we should be every
hour of our existence liable to be driven  out of  our heavenward course, yea, to broach--to
and founder, and sink  for ever,  under one of the many squalls in this world of storms?  And
here, in this most beautiful spot, with the deep, dark, crystal--clear pool at our  feet, 
fringed with the velvet grass, and the green quivering  leaf above  flickering between us and
the bright blue cloudless sky, and  the everlasting rocks, with those diamond--like tears trickling
down  their rugged  cheeks,  impending over us,--and those gigantic  gnarled  trees, with 
their  tracery of black withes fantastically tangled, whose  naked roots  twist  and  twine
amongst the fissures, like serpents  trying  to shelter  themselves  from the scorching rays
of the  vertical  sun,  and those  feather--like  bamboos high arching overhead,  and  screening
us under  their  noble canopy,--and the cool plantains, their broad  ragged leaves  bending
under the weight of dew--spangles, and the  half--opened wild--flowers,--yea,  even here, the
ardent  noontide  sleeping  on  the hill,  when even the quickeyed lizard lies still, and no
longer  rustles through  the  dry grass, and there is not a breath of air strong  enough out
of  heaven to stir the gossamer that floats before us, or  to  wave that  wild flower on its
hair like stem, or to ruffle the fairy  plumage of  the  humming--bird, that, against the custom
of  its  kind,  is  now quietly   perched  thereon;  and  while  the  bills  of  the  chattering
paroquets,  that are peering at us from the branches above, are  closed, and  the woodpecker
interrupts his tapping to look down upon us, and the only  sound we hear is the moaning of
the wood--pigeon, and the  lulling buzz of myriads of happy insects booming on the ear, loud
as the rushing of  a  distant  waterfall--(Confound these  musquittoes,  though!)--Even here,
on this:"

'So sweet a spot of earth, you might, I ween, Have guessed some congregation of the elves,
To sport by summer moons, had shaped it for themselves.'

Even  in such a place could I look forward without a shudder, to set  up my  everlasting rest,
to lay my weary bones in the earth, and to  mingle my  clay  with  that whereout it was moulded.
No fear of being  houcked here, Thomas, and preserved in a glass case, like a stuffed woodcock,
in Surgeons  Hall.  I  am  a  barbarian, Tom, in these  respects--I  am  a barbarian,  and
nothing of a philosopher.  Quiero  Paz  is  to  be  my epitaph.  Quiero Paz--'Cursed be he
who stirs these bones.' Did not even Shakspeare write it?  What poetry in this spot, Thomas!

I was much moved.

"You have spoken of knowledge, Tom.  Knowledge--what do I know?  Of myself I know as little
as I do of any other grub that crawls on the surface of this world of sin and suffering; and
what I do know, adds little to my self--esteem, Tom, and affords small encouragement to enquire
further.--Knowledge, say you?  How is that particle of sand here? I cannot tell.  How grew
that blade of grass?  I do not know. Even when I look into that jug of brandy grog, (I'll trouble
you for it, Thomas,) all that I know is, that if I drink it, it will make me drunk, and a more
desperately wicked creature, if that were possible, than I am already.  And when I look forth
on the higher and more noble objects of the visible creation, abroad on this beautiful earth,
above on the glorious universe studded with shining orbs, without number numberless, what can
I make of them?  Nothing absolutely nothing--yet they are all creatures like myself.  But--if
I try--audaciously try--to strain my finite faculties, in the futile attempt to take in what
is infinite--if I aspiringly, but hopelessly, grapple with the idea of the immensity of space,
for instance, which my reason yet tells me must of necessity be boundless--do I not fall fluttering
to the earth again, like an owl flying against the noontide sun?  Again, when I venture to
think of eternity--ay, when, reptile as I feel myself to be, I even look up towards heaven,
and bend my erring thoughts towards the Most High, the Maker of all things, who was, and is,
and is to come; whose flaming minister, even while I speak, is pouring down a flood of intolerable
day on one half of the dry earth, and all that therein is; and when I reflect on what this
tremendous, this inscrutable Being has done for me and my sinful race, so beautifully shown
forth in both our creeds, what do I know? but that I am a poor miserable worm, crushed before
the moth, whose only song should be the miserere, whose only prayer 'God be merciful to me
a sinner!"

There was a long pause, and I began to fear that my friend was shaken in his mind, for he continued
to look steadfastly into the clear black water, where he had skimmed off the green velvet coating
with his stick.

"Ay, and is it even so? and is it Tom Cringle who thinks and says that I am a man likely to
profess to believe what he knows in his heart to be a lie?  A Roman Catholic!  Had I lived
before the Roman Conquest I would have been a Druid, for it is not under the echoing domes
of our magnificent cathedrals, with all the grandeur of our ritual, the flaming tapers, and
bands of choristers, and the pealing organ, and smoking censers, and silver--toned bells, and
white--robed priests, that the depths of my heart are stirred up.  It is here, and not in a
temple made with hands, however gorgeous--here, in the secret places of the everlasting forest,--it
is in such a place as this that I feel the immortal spark within me kindling into a flame,
and wavering up heavenward. I am superstitious, Thomas, I am superstitious, when left alone
in such a scene as this. I can walk through a country churchyard at midnight, and stumble amongst
the rank grass that covers the graves of those I have lived with and loved, even if they be
'green in death, and festering in their shrouds,' with the wind moaning amongst the stunted
yew--trees, and the rain splashing and scattering on the moss covered tombstones, and the blinding
blue lightning flashing, while the. headstones glance like an array of sheeted ghosts, and
the thunder is grumbling overhead, without a qualm--direness of this kind cannot once daunt
me; it is here and now, when all nature sleeps in the ardent noontide, that I become superstitious,
and would not willingly be left alone.  Thoughts too deep for tears!--ay, indeed, and there
be such thoughts, that, long after time has allowed them to subside, and when, to the cold
eye of the world, all is clear and smooth above, will, when stirred up, like the sediment of
this fountain of the wood, discolour and embitter the whole stream of life once more, even
after the lapse of long long years.  When my heart crushing loss was recent--when the wound
was green, I could not walk abroad at this to me witching time of day, without a stock or a
stone, a distant mark on the hill--side, or the outline of the grey cliff above, taking the
very fashion of her face, or figure, on which I would gaze, and gaze, as if spell--bound, until
I knew not whether to call it a grouping of the imagination, or a reality from without--or
her, with whom I fondly hoped to have travelled the weary road of life.  Friends approved--fortune
smiled--one little month, and we should have been one; but it pleased Him, to whom in my present
frame of mind I dare not look up, to blight my beautiful flower, to canker my rose--bud, to
change the fair countenance of my Elizabeth, and send her away.  She drooped and died, even
like that pale flower under the scorching sun; and I was driven forth to worship Mammon, in
these sweltering climes; but the sting remains, the barbed arrow sticks fast."

Here the cleared surface of the water, into which he was steadfastly looking, was gradually
contracted into a small round spot about a foot in diameter, by the settling back of the green
floating matter that he had skimmed aside.  His countenance became very pale; he appeared even
more excited than he had hitherto been.

"By heavens! look in that water, if the green covering of it has not arranged itself round
the clear spot into the shape of a medallion into her features! I had dreamed of such things
before, but now it is a palpable reality--it is her face--her straight nose--her Grecian upper
lip--her beautiful forehead, and her very bust!--even,"

'As when years apace had bound her lovely waist with woman's zone.'

"Oh, Elizabeth--Elizabeth!"

Here his whole frame shook with the most intense emotion, but at length, tears,  unwonted tears,
did come to his relief, and he hid his  face  in his  hands,  and wept bitterly. I was now
convinced he was  mad,  but  I durst  not  interrupt him.  At length he slowly removed  his
hands,  by which  time,  however, a beautiful small black diver,  the  most  minute species
of duck that I ever saw--it was not so big as my fist--but which is  common in woodland ponds
in the West Indies, had risen in the centre of  the  eye  of  the fountain, while all was so
still that  it  floated quietly  like a leaf on the water, apparently without the least fear
of us.

"The devil appeared in Paradise under the shape of a cormorant," said Mr Bang,  half  angrily,
as he gazed sternly at the unlooked  for  visitor; "what imp art thou?"

Tip--the little fellow dived; presently it rose again in the same place, and  lifting  up its
little foot, scratched the side of its tiny  yellow bill  and  little red--spotted head, shook
its small wings,  bright  and changeable  as shot silk, with a snow--white pen--feather in
each,  and then tipped up its little purple tail, and once more disappeared.

Aaron's  features were gradually relaxing; a change was coming over  the spirit  of his dream.
The bird appeared for the third time, looked  him in  the  face,  first  turning up one little
sparkling  eye,  and  then another,  with its neck changing its hues like a pigeon's.  Aaron
began to  smile; he gently raised his stick--"Do you cock your fud at me,  you tiny  thief,
you?"--and thereupon he struck at it with his stick.  Tip the  duck  dived,  and did not rise
again; and all that  he  got  was  a sprinkling shower in the face, from the water flashing
up at  his  blow, and once more the green covering settled back again, and the bust of his
dead  love,  or  what he fancied to be so, disappeared.   Aaron  laughed outright, arose, and
began to shout to the black guide, who, along  with Pegtop,  had  taken  the beasts into the
wood in  search  of  provender. "Ayez  le  bont  de donnez moi mon cheval?  Bring us the  horsos,
Massa Bungo--venga los quadrupedos--make haste, vite, mucho, mucho."

Come, there is my Massa Aaron once more, at all events, thought I; but oh, how unlike the Aaron
of five minutes ago!

"So now let us mount, my boy," said he, and we shoved along until the evening fell, and the
sun bid us good--by very abruptly.  "Cheep, Cheep," sung the lizards--"chirp, chirp," sung
the crickets, "snore, snore," moaned the tree--toad--and it was night.

"Dame Nature shifts the scene without much warning here, Thomas," said Massa Aaron; "we must
get along, Doechez, mon cher--doechez, diggez votre spurs into the flankibus of votre cheval,
mon ami," shouted Aaron to our guide.

"Oui, monsieur," replied the man, 'mais'

I did not like this ominous "but," nevertheless we rode on.  No more did Massa Aaron.  The
guide repeated his mais again.  "Mais, mon filo," said Bang, "mais--que meanez vous by baaing
comme un sheep, eh?  Que vizzy vous, eh?"

We were at this time riding in a bridle--road, to which the worst sheep paths in Westmoreland
would have been a railway, with our horses every now and then stumbling and coming down on
their noses on the deep red earth, while we as often stood a chance of being pitched bodily
against some tree on the pathside.  But we were by this time all alive again, the dullness
of repletion having evaporated; and Mr Bang, I fancied, began to peer anxiously about him,
and to fidget a good deal, and to murmur and grumble something in his gizzard about "arms--no
arms," as, feeling in his starboard holster, he detected a regular long cork of claret, where
he had hoped to clutch a pistol, while in the larboard, by the praiseworthy forethought of
our guide, a good roasted capon was ensconced.  "I say, Tom tohoo mind I don't shoot you,"
presenting the bottle of claret.  "If it had been soda water, and the wire not all the stronger,
I might have had a chance in this climate--but we are somewhat caught here, my dear we have
no arms."

"Poo," said I, "never mind--no danger at hand, take my word for it."

"May be not, may be not--but, Pegtop, you scoundrel, why did you not fetch my pistols?"

"Eigh, you go fight, massa?"

"Fight! no, you booby; but could not your own numscull--the fellow's a fool--so come--ride
on, ride on."

Presently we came to an open space, free of trees, where the moon shone brightly; it was a
round precipitous hollow, that had been excavated apparently by the action of a small clear
stream or spout of water, that sparkled in the moonbeams like a web of silver tissue, as it
leaped in a crystal arch over our heads from the top of a rock about twenty feet high, that
rose on our right hand, the summit clearly and sharply defined against the blue firmament,
while, on the left, was a small hollow or ravine, down which the rivulet gurgled and vanished;
while ahead the same impervious forest prevailed, beneath which we had been travelling for
so many hours.

The road led right through this rugged hollow, crossing it about the middle, or, if any thing,
nearer the base of the cliff; and the whole clear space between the rock and the branches of
the opposite trees might have measured twenty yards.  In front of us, the path took a turn
to the left, as if again entering below the dark shadow of the wood; but towards the right,
with the moon shining brightly on it, there was a most beautiful bank, clear of underwood,
and covered with the finest short velvet grass that could be dreamed of as a fitting sward
to be pressed by fairy feet.  We all halted in the centre of the open space.

"See how the moonlight sleeps on yonder bank!" said I.

"I don't know what sleeps there, Tom," said Aaron; "but does that figure sleep, think you?"
pointing to the dark crest of the precipitous eminence of the right hand, from which the moonlight
rill was gushing, as if it had been smitten by the rod of the Prophet.

I started, and looked--a dark half--naked figure, with an enormous cap of the shaggy skin of
some wild creature, was kneeling on one knee, on the very pinnacle with a carabine resting
across his thigh.  I noticed our guide tremble from head to foot, but he did not speak.

"Vous avez des arms?" said Bang, as he continued with great fluency, but little grammar; "ayez
le bonte de cockez votre pistolettes?"

The man gave no answer.  We heard the click of the carabine lock.

"Zounds!" said Aaron, with his usual energy when excited, "if you won't use them, give them
to me;" and forthwith he snatched both pistols from our guide's holsters.  "Now, Tom, get on.
Shove t'other blackie a--head of you, Pegtop, will you?  Confound you for forgetting my Mantons,
you villain.  I will bring up the rear."

"Well, I will get on," said I. "but here, give me a pistol."

"Ridez vous en avant, blackimoribus ambos--en avant, you black rascals laissez le Capitan and
me pour fightez"--shouted Bang, as the black guide, guessing his meaning, spurred his horse
against the moonlight bank.

"Ah--ah!" exclaimed the man, as he wheeled about after he had ridden a pace or two under the
shadow of the trees--"Voila ces autres brigands la."

"Where?" said I.

"There," said the man in an ecstasy of fear--"there"--and peering up into the forest, where
the checkering dancing moonlight was flickering on the dun, herbless soil, as the gentle night--breeze
made the leaves of the trees twinkle to and fro, I saw three dark figures advancing upon us.

"Here's a catastrophe, Tom, my boy" quoth Aaron, who, now that he had satisfied himself that
the pistols were properly loaded and primed, had resumed all his wonted coolness in danger.
"Ask that fellow who is enacting the statue on the top of the rock what he wants. I am a tolerable
shot, you know; and if he means evil, I shall nick him before he can carry his carabine to
his shoulder, take my word for it."

"Who is there, and what do you want?" No answer, the man above us continued as still as if
he had actually been a statue of bronze. Presently one of the three men in the wood sounded
a short snorting note on a bullock's horn.

It would seem that until this moment their comrade above us had not been aware of their vicinity,
for he immediately called out in the patois of St Domingo, "advance, and seize the travellers;"
and thereupon was in the act of raising his piece to his shoulder, when crack--Bang tired his
pistol.  The man uttered a loud hah, but did not fall.

"Missed him, by all that is wonderful!" said my companion.  "Now, Tom, it is your turn."

I levelled, and was in the very act of pulling the trigger, when the dark figure fell over
slowly and stiffly on his back, and then began to struggle violently, and to cough loudly,
as if he were suffocating.  At length he rolled over and down the face of the rock, where he
was caught by a strong clump of brushwood, and there he hung, while the coughing and crowing
increased, and I felt a warm shower, as of heated water, sputter over my face.  It was hot
hot and salt--God of my fathers! it was blood.  But there was no time for consideration; the
three figures by this had been reinforced by six more, and they now, with a most fiendish yell,
jumped down into the hollow basin, and surrounded us.

"Lay down your arms," one of them shouted.

"No," I exclaimed; "we are British officers, and armed, and determined to sell our lives dearly;
and if you do succeed in murdering us, you may rest assured you shall be hunted down by bloodhounds."

I thought the game was up, and little dreamed that the name of Briton would, amongst the fastnesses
of Haiti, have proved a talisman; but it did so.  "We have no wish to injure you, but you must
follow us, and see our general," said the man who appeared to take the lead amongst them. Here
two of the men scrambled up the face of the rock, and brought their wounded comrade down from
where he hung, and laid him on the bank; he had been shot through the lungs, and could not
speak.  After a minute's conversation, they lifted him on their shoulders; and as our guide
and Monsieur Pegtop had been instantly bound, we were only two to nine armed men, and accordingly
had nothing for it but to follow the bearers of the wounded man, with our horses tumbling and
scrambling up the river course, into which, by their order, we had now turned.

We proceeded in this way for about half a mile, when it was evident that the jaded beasts could
not travel farther amongst the twisted trunks of trees and fragments of rock with which the
river--course was now strewed.  We therefore dismounted, and were compelled to leave them in
charge of two of the brigands, and immediately began to scramble up the hill--side, through
a narrow footpath, in one of the otherwise most impervious thickets that I had ever seen. 
Presently a black savage, half--naked like his companions, hailed, and told us to stand.  Some
password that we could not understand was given by our captors, and we proceeded, still ascending,
until, turning sharp off to the left, we came suddenly round a pinnacle of rock, and looked
down into a deep dell, with a winding path leading to the brink of it.  It was a round cockpit
of a place, surrounded with precipitous limestone--rocks on all sides, from the fissures of
which large trees and bushes sprung, while the bottom was a level piece of ground, covered
with long hay--like grass, evidently much trodden down.  Close to the high bank, right opposite,
and about thirty yards from us, a wood--fire was sparkling cheerily against the grey rock;
while, on the side next us, the roofs of several huts were visible, but there was no one moving
about that we could see.  The moment, however, that the man with the horn sounded a rough and
most unmelodious blast, there was a buzz and a stir below, and many a short grunt arose out
of the pit, and long yawns, and eigh, eighs! while a dozen splinters of resinous wood were
instantly lit, and held aloft, by whose light I saw fifty or sixty half--naked, but well armed
blacks, gazing up at us from beneath, their white eyes and whiter teeth glancing.  Most of
them had muskets and long knives, and several wore the military shake, while others had their
heads bound round with the never--failing handkerchief.  At length a fierce--looking fellow,
dressed in short drawers, a round blue jacket, a pair of epaulets, and a most enormous cocked
hat, placed a sort of rough ladder, a prank with notches cut in it with a hatchet, against
the bank next us, and in a loud voice desired us to descend. I did so with fear and trembling,
but Mr Bang never lost his presence of mind for a moment; and, in answer to the black chief's
questions, I again rested our plea on our being British officers, despatched on service from
a squadron (and as I used the word, the poor little Wave and solitary corvette rose up before
me) across the island to Jacmel, to communicate with another British force lying there.  The
man heard me with great patience; but when I looked round the circle of tatterdemalions, for
there was ne'er a shirt in the whole company--Falstaff's men were a joke to them--with their
bright arms sparkling to the red glare of the torches, that flared like tongues of flame overhead,
while they grinned with their ivory teeth, and glared fiercely with their white eyeballs on
us--I felt that our lives were not worth an hour's purchase.

At length the leader spoke--"I am General Sanchez, driven to dispute President Petion's sway
by his injustice to me--but I trust our quarrel is not hopeless; will you, gentlemen, on your
return to Port--au--Prince, use your influence with him to withdraw his decree against me?"

This was so much out of the way the idea of our being deputed to mediate between such great
personages as President Petion and one of his rebel generals, was altogether so absurd, that,
under other circumstances, I would have laughed in the black fellow's face. However, a jest
here might have cost us our lives; so we looked serious, and promised.

"Upon your honours"--said the poor fellow.

"Upon our words of honour"--we rejoined.

"Then embrace me"--and the savage thereupon, stinking of tobacco and cocoa--nut oil, hugged
me, and kissed me on both cheeks, and then did the agreeable in a similar way to Mr Bang. 
Here the coughing and moaning of the wounded man broke in upon the conference.

"What is that?" said Sanchez.  One of his people told him.  "Ah!" said he, with a good deal
of savageness in his tone--"A--ha! blood?"

We promptly explained how it happened;--for a few moments, I did not know how he might take it.

"But I forgive you," at length said he--"however, my men may revenge their comrade.  You must
drink and eat with them."

This was said aside to us, as it were.  He ordered some roasted plantains to be brought, and
mixed some cruel bad tafia with water in an enormous gourd.  He ate, and then took a pull himself
we followed,--and he then walked round the circle, and carefully observed that every one had
tasted also.  Being satisfied on this head, he abruptly ordered us to ascend the ladder, and
to pass on our way.

The poor fellow was mad, I believe.  However, some time afterwards, the President hunted him
down, and got hold of him, but I believe he never punished him.  As for the wounded man, whether
he did live or die, Tom Cringle does not know.

We  were  reconducted by our former escort to where we left our  horses, remounted, and without
farther let or hinderance arrived by day dawn  at the  straggling  town of Jacmel.  The situation
is very  beautiful,  the town  being  built on the hillside, looking out seaward on a  very
safe roadstead, the anchorage being defended to the southward by bright  blue shoals, and white
breakers, that curl and roar over the coral reefs  and ledges.   As  we  rode up to Mr S----'s,
the principal merchant  in  the place,  and  a  Frenchman,  we were again struck  with  the
dilapidated condition  of the houses, and the generally ruinous state of  the  town. The brown
and black population appeared to be lounging about in the most absolute  idleness; and here,
as at Port--au--Prince, every  second  man you  met was a soldier.  The women sitting in their
little shops, nicely set  out  with  a  variety of gay printed goods, and the  crews  of  the
English vessels loading coffee, were the only individuals who seemed  to be capable of any
exertion.

"I say, Tom," quoth Massa Aaron, "do you see that old fellow there?"

"What? that old grey--headed negro sitting in the arbour there?"

"Yes--the patriarch is sitting under the shadow of his own Lima bean."

And so in very truth he was.  The stem was three inches in diameter, and the  branches had
been trained along and over a sparred arch,  and  were loaded with pods.

"I shall believe in the story of Jack and the Beanstalk, henceforth and for ever," said I.

We were most kindly entertained by Mr S----, and spent two or three days very happily.  The
evening of the day on which we arrived, we had strolled out about nine o'clock to take the
air--our host and his clerks being busy in the counting--house--and were on our way home, when
we looked in on them at their desks, before ascending to the apartments above.  There were
five clerks and Mr S----, all working away on the top of their tall mahogany tripods, by the
light of their brown home--made wax candles, while three masters of merchantmen were sitting
in a corner, comparing bills of lading, making up manifests, and I do not know what beside.

"It is now about time to close," said Mr S----; "have you any objection to a little music,
gentlemen? or are you too much fatigued?"

"Music--music," said Mr Bang, "I delight in good music, but"--He was cut short by the whole
bunch, the clerks and their master, closing their ledgers, and journals, and day--books, and
cashbooks with a bang, while one hooked up a fiddle, another a clarionet, another a flute,
&c, while Mr S----offered, with a smile, his own clarionet to Massa Aaron, and holding out
at the same time, with the true good--breeding of a Frenchman, a span--new reed.  To my unutterable
surprise he took it sucked in his lips--wet the reed in his mouth; then passing his hand across
his muzzle, coolly asked Mr S----what the piece was to be? "Adeste fideles, if you please,"
said S----, rather taken aback.  Mr Bang nodded--sounded a bar or two gave another very scientific
flourish, and then calmly awaited the opening.  He then tendered a fiddle to me altogether
beyond my compass--but I offered to officiate on the kettledrum, the drummer being competent
to something else.  At a signal from our host away they all launched in full crash, and very
melodious it was too, let me tell you, Aaron's instrument telling most famously.

The next day we went to visit a tafia property in the neighbourhood.  On our way we passed
a dozen miserable--looking blacks, cleaning canes, followed by an ugly Turk of a brown man,
almost naked, with the omnipresent glazed cocked--hat, and a drawn cutlass in his hand.  He
was abusing the poor devils most lustily as we rode along, and stood so pertinaciously in the
path, that I could not for the life of me pass without jostling him.  "Le vous demands pardon,"
said I, with a most abject salaam to my saddle--bow.  He knit his brows and shut his teeth
hard, as he ground out between the glancing ivory, "Sacre!--voila ces foutres blancs la,"--clutching
the hilt of his couteau firmly all the while.  I thought he would have struck me.  But Mr S----coming
up, mollified the savage, and we rode on.

The tafia estate was a sore affair.  It had once been a prosperous sugar plantation, as the
broken panes and ruined houses, blackened by fire, were melancholy vouchers for; but now the
whole cultivation was reduced to about a couple of acres of wiry sugar canes, and the boiling
and distilling was carried on in a small unroofed nook of the original works.

Two days after this we returned to Port--au--Prince, and I could not help admiring the justness
of Aaron's former description; for noisome exhalations were rising thick, as the evening sun
shone hot and sickly on the long bank of fat black mud that covers the beach beneath the town.
We found Captain Transom at Mr S----'s.  I made my report of the state of the merchantmen loading
on the south side of the island, and returned to rest, deucedly tired and stiff with my ride.
Next morning Bang entered my room.

"Hillo, Tom--the skipper has been shouting for you this half hour--get up, man--get up."

"My dear sir, I am awfully tired."

"Oh!" sung Bang--"'I have a silent sorrow here' eh?"

It  was true enough; no sailor rides seventy miles on end with impunity. That  same evening
we bid adieu to our excellent host Mr S----, and  the rising  moon shone on us under weigh
for Kingston, where two days  after we  safely anchored with the homeward bound trade. "The
roaring seas  Is not  a place of ease," says a Point ditty.  No more is the command of  a small
schooner in the West Indies.  We had scarcely anchored, when  the boarding  officer  from the
flag--ship brought me a  message  to  repair thither immediately. I did so.  As I stepped on
deck, the lieutenant was leaning  on  the  drumhead of the capstan, with  the  signal--book
open before  him, while the signal--man was telling off the semaphore,  which was rattling
away at the Admiral's pen, situated about five miles off.

"Ah!  Cringle," said he, without turning his head, "how are you? glad to see you--wish you
joy, my lad.  Here, lend me a hand, will you? it concerns you." I took the book, and as the
man reported, I pieced the following comfortable sentence together.

"Desire--Wave--fit--wood--water--instantly--to take convoy to Spanish Main--to--morrow morning--Mr
Cringle--remain on board--orders will be sent--evening."

"Heigh ho, says Rowley," sang I Thomas, in great wrath and bitterness of spirit.   "D--d  hard--am
I a duck, to live in  the  water  altogether, entirely?"

"Tom,  my  boy," sung out a voice from the water.  It was Aaron  Bang's, who,  along  with
Transom, had seen me go on board the receiving  ship. "Come  along, man--come along--Transom
is going to make interest to  get you a furlough on shore; so come along, and dine with us
in Kingston."

"I  am ordered to sea to--morrow morning, my dear sir," said I, like  to cry.--"No!"--"Too
true, too true." So no help for  it,  I  took  a  sad farewell  of  my friends, received my
orders, laid in my provisions  and water,  hauled  out into the fairway, and sailed for Santa
Martha  next morning at daybreak, with three merchant schooners under convoy one  for Santa
Martha--another for Carthagena--and the third for Porto--Bello.

We  sailed  on the 24th of such a month, and, after a pleasant  passage, anchored  at  Santa
Martha, at 8 AM, on the 31st.   When  we  came  to anchor,  we  saluted,  which seemed to have
been a  somewhat  unexpected honour,  as  the  return was fired from the fort after a most
primitive fashion.  A black fellow appeared with a shovel of live embers,  one  of which  another
sans culotte caught up in his hand, chucking it from  one palm  to  another, until he ran to
the breech of the first  gun,  where, clapping  it  on the touch--hole, he fired it off, and
so  on  seriatim, through the whole battery, until the required number of guns were given,
several  of which, by the by, were shotted, as we could hear  the  balls whiz overhead.  The
town lies on a small plain, at the foot of very high mountains,  or  rather on a sand--bank,
formed from  the  washings  from these  mountains.  The summit of the highest of them, we could
see  from the deck, was covered with snow, which at sunrise, in the clear light of the  cool
grey dawn, shone, when struck by the first rays of  the  sun, like  one entire amethyst.  Oh,
how often I longed for the wings of  the eagle,  to  waft  me from the hot deck of the little
vessel,  where  the thermometer  in  the  shade  stood at 95, far  up  amongst  the  shining
glaciers, to be comforted with cold!

One striking natural phenomenon is exhibited here, arising out of the vicinity of this stupendous
prong of the Cordilleras.  The sea breeze blows into the harbour all day, but in the night,
or rather towards morning, the cold air from the high regions rushes down, and blows with such
violence off the land, that my convoy and myself were nearly blown out to sea the first night
after we arrived; and it was only by following the practice of the native craft, and anchoring
close under the lee of the beach--in fact, by having an anchor high and dry on the shore itself--the
player, as the Spaniards call it--that we could count on riding through the night with security
or comfort.

There are several small islands at the entrance of the harbour, on the highest of which is
a fort, that might easily be rendered impregnable; it commands both the town and harbour. 
The place itself deserves little notice; the houses are mean, and interspersed with negro huts,
but there is one fine church, with several tolerable paintings in it.  One struck me as especially
grotesque, although I had often seen queer things in Roman Catholic churches in Europe.  It
was a representation of Hell, with Old Nicholas, under the guise of a dragon, entertaining
himself with the soul of an unfortunate heretic in his claws, who certainly appeared far from
comfortable; while a lot of his angels were washing the sins off a set of fine young men, as
you would the dirt off scabbit potatoes, in a sea of liquid fire.  But their saints!--I often
rejoiced that Aaron Bang was not with me; we should unquestionably have quarrelled; for as
to the manner in which they were dressed and decorated, the most fantastic mode a girl ever
did up her doll in, was a joke to it.  Still these wooden deities are treated with such veneration;
that I do believe their ornaments, which are of massive gold and silver, are never, or very
rarely, stolen.

On the evening of the 2nd of the following month we sailed again, but having been baffled by
calms and light winds, it was the 4th before we anchored off the St Domingo gate at Carthagena,
and next morning we dropped down to Boca Chica, and saw our charge, a fine dashing schooner
of 150 tons, safe into the harbour.  About 9 AM, we had weighed, but we had scarcely got the
anchor catted, when it came on to blow great guns from the northwester most unusual thing hereabouts--so
it was down anchor again; and as I had made up my mind not to attempt it again before morning,
I got the gig in the water with all convenient speed; and that same forenoon I reached the
town, and immediately called on the Viceroy, but under very different circumstances from the
time Mr Splinter and I had entered it along with the conquering army.

We dined with the magnate, and found a very large party assembled. Amongst others, I especially
recollect that the Inquisidor--General was conspicuous; but every one, with the exception of
the Captain General and his immediate staff, was arrayed in gingham jackets; so there was not
much style in the affair.

I had before dinner an opportunity to inspect the works of Carthagena at my leisure.  It is
unquestionably a very strong place, the walls, which are built of solid masonry, being armed
with at least three hundred pieces of brass cannon, while the continued ebb and flow of the
tide in the ditch creates a current so strong, that it would be next to impossible to fill
it up, as fascines would be carried away by the current--so that, were the walls even breached,
it would be impracticable to storm them.  The appearance of Carthagena from the sea, that is,
from a vessel anchored off the St Domingo gate, is very beautiful, and picturesque.  It is
situated on a sandy island, or rather a group of islands; and the beach here shoals so gradually,
that boats of even very small draught of water cannot approach within musket--shot. The walls
and numerous batteries have a very commanding appearance.  The spires and towers on the churches
are numerous, and many of them were decorated with flags when we were there; and the green
trees shooting up amidst the red--tiled houses afforded a beautiful relief to the prospect.
A little behind the town, on a gentle acclivity, is the citadel, or fort San Felipe, whose
appearance conveys an idea of impregnable strength; (but all this sort of thing, is it not
written in Roderick Random?) and on the ship like hill beyond it, the only other eminence in
the neighbourhood, stands the convent of the Popa, like a poop lantern on the high stern of
a ship, from which indeed it takes its name.  This convent had been strongly fortified; and,
commanding San Felipe, was of great use to Morillo, who carried it by assault during the siege,
and held it until the insurgents shelled him out from the citadel.  The effect, when I first
saw it, was increased by the whole scene--city, and batteries, and Popa--being reflected in
the calm smooth sea, as distinctly as if it had been glass; so clear, in fact, was the reflection,
that you could scarcely distinguish the shadow from the reality.  We weighed next morning--that
is on the sixth of the month, and arrived safe at Porto--Bello on the 11th, after a tedious
passage, during which we had continual rains, accompanied with vivid lightning and tremendous
thunder.  I had expected to have fallen in with one of our frigates here; but I afterwards
learned that, although I had slid down cheerily along shore, the weather current that prevailed
farther out at sea had swept her away to the eastward; so I ran in and anchored, and immediately
waited on the Governor, who received me in what might once have been a barn, although it did
not now deserve the name.

Porto--Bello was originally called Nombre de Dios, having received the former name from the
English when we took it. It is a miserable, dirty, damp hole, surrounded by high forest--clad
hills, round which everlasting mists curl and obscure the sun, whose rays, at any chance moment
when they do reach the steamy swamp on which it is built or the waters of the lead--coloured,
land--locked cove that constitutes the harbour, immediately exhale the thick sickly moisture,
in clouds of sluggish white vapours, smelling diabolically of decayed vegetables, and slime,
and mud.  I will venture a remark that will be found, I am persuaded, pretty near the truth,
that there were twenty carrion crows to be seen in the streets for every inhabitant--the people
seem every way worthy of such an abode, saffron, dingy, miserable, emaciated looking devils.
As for the place itself, it appeared to my eyes one large hospital, inhabited by--patients
in the yellow fever.  During the whole of the following day, there was still no appearance
of the frigate, and I had in consequence now to execute the ulterior part of my orders, which
were, that if I did not find her at anchor when I arrived, or if she did not make her appearance
within forty eight hours thereafter, I was myself to leave the Wave in Porto--Bello, and proceed
overland across the isthmus to Panama, and to deliver, on board of H. M. S. Bandera, into the
Captain's own hands, a large packet with despatches from the Government at home, as I understood,
of great importance, touching the conduct of our squadron, with reference to the vagaries of
some of the mushroom American Republics on the Pacific.  But if I fell in with the frigate,
then I was to deliver the said packet to the Captain, and return immediately in the Wave to
Port Royal.

Having, therefore, obtained letters from the Governor of Porto--Bello to the Commandant at
Chagres, I chartered a canoe with four stout canoemen and a steersman, or patron, as he is
called, to convey me to Cruzes; and having laid in a good stock of eatables and drinkables,
and selected the black pilot, Peter Mangrove, to go as my servant, accompanied by his never--failing
companion, Sneezer, and taking my hammock and double barrelled gun, and a brace of pistols
with me, we shoved off at Six A.M. on the morning of the 14th.

It was a rum sort of conveyance this said canoe of mine.  In the first place, it was near forty
feet long, and only five broad at the broadest, being hollowed out of one single wild cotton--tree;
how this was to be pulled through the sea on the coast, by four men, I could not divine. However,
I was assured by the old thief who chartered it to me, that it would be all right; whereas,
had my innocence not been imposed on, I might, in a caiuco, or smaller canoe, have made the
passage in one half the time it took me.

About ten feet of the after part was thatched with palm leaves, over a framework of broad ash
hoops; which awning, called the toldo, was open both towards the steersman that guided us with
a long broad--bladed paddle in the stern, and in the direction of the men forward, who, on
starting, stripped themselves stark naked, and, giving a loud yell every now and then, began
to pull their oars, or long paddles, after a most extraordinary fashion.  First, when they
lay back to the strain, they jumped backwards and upwards on to the thwart with their feet,
and then, as they once more feathered their paddles again, they came crack down on their bottoms
with a loud skelp on the seats, upon which they again mounted at the next stroke, and so on.

When we cleared the harbour it was fine and serene, but about noon it came on to blow violently
from the northeast.  All this while we were coasting it along about pistol--shot from the white
coral beach, with the clear light green swell on our right hand, and beyond it the dark and
stormy waters of the blue rolling ocean; and the snowwhite roaring surf on our left.  By the
time I speak of, the swell had been lashed up into breaking waves, and after shipping more
salt water than I had bargained for, we were obliged, about four PM, to shove into a cove within
the reef, called Naranja.

Along this part of the coast there is a chain of salt--water lagoons, divided from the sea
by the coral beach, the crest of which is covered here and there with clumps of stunted mangroves.

This beach, strangely enough, is higher than the land immediately behind it, as if it had been
a dike, or natural breakwater, thrown up by the sea.  Every here and there, there were gaps
in this natural dike, and it was through one of these we shoved, and soon swung to our grapnel
in perfect security, but in a most outlandish situation certainly.

As we rode to the easterly breeze, there was the beach as described, almost level with the
water, on our left hand, the land or lee side of it covered with most beautiful white sand
and shells, with whole warrens of land--crabs running out and in their holes like little rabbits,
their tiny green bodies seeming to roll up and down, for I was not near enough to see their
feet, or the mode of their locomotion, like bushels of grapeshot trundling all about on the
shining white shore.  Beyond, the roaring surf was flashing up over the clumps of green bushes,
and thundering on the seaward face.  On the right hand, ahead of us, and astern of us, the
prospect was shut in by impervious thickets of mangroves, while in the distance the blue hills
rose glimmering and indistinct, as seen through the steamy atmosphere.  We were anchored in
a stripe of clear water, about three hundred yards long by fifty broad. There, was a clear
space abeam of us landward, of about half an acre in extent, on which was built a solitary
Indian hut close to the water's edge, with a small canoe drawn up close to the door.  We had
not been long at anchor when the canoe was launched, and a monkey--looking naked old man paddled
off, and brought us a most beautiful chicken turtle, some yams, and a few oranges.  I asked
him his price.  He rejoined, "Por amor de Dios"--that it was his saint's day, and he meant
it as a gift. However, he did not refuse a dollar when tendered to him before he paddled away.

That night, when we were all at supper, master and men, I heard and felt a sharp crack against
the side of the canoe.  "Hillo, Peter, what is that?" said I.

"Nothing, sir," quoth Peter, who was enjoying his scraps abaft, with the headman, patron, or
whatever you may call him, of my crew.  There was a blazing fire kindled on a bed of white
sand, forward in the bow of the canoe, round which the four bogas, or canoemen, were seated,
with three sticks stuck up triangularly over the fire, from which depended an earthen pot,
in which they were cooking their suppers.

I had rigged my hammock between the foremost and aftermost hoops of the toldo, and as I was
fatigued and sleepy, and it was now getting late, I desired to betake myself to rest; so I
was just flirting with a piece of ham, preparatory to the cold grog, when I again felt a similar
thump and rattle against the side of the canoe.  There was a small aperture in the palm thatch,
right opposite to where I was sitting, on the outside of which I now heard a rustling noise,
and presently a long snout was thrust through, and into the canoe, which kept opening and shutting
with a sharp rattling noise.  It was more like two long splinters of mud covered and half--decayed
timber, than any thing I can compare it to; but as the lower jaw was opened, like a pair of
Brobdignag scissors, a formidable row of teeth was unmasked, the snout from the tip to the
eyes being nearly three feet long.  The scene at this moment was exceedingly good, as seen
by the light of a small, bright, silver lamp, fed with spirits of wine, that I always travelled
with, which hung from one of the hoops of the toldo.  First, there was our friend Peter Mangrove,
cowering in a corner under the after part of the awning, covered up with a blanket, and shaken
as if with an ague--fit, with the patron peering over his shoulder, no less alarmed.  Sneezer,
the dog, was sitting on end, with his black nose resting on the table, waiting patiently for
his crumbs; and the black boatmen were forward in the bow of the canoe, jabbering, and laughing,
and munching, as they clustered round a sparkling fire.  When I first saw the apparition of
the diabolical looking snout, I was in a manner fascinated, and could neither speak nor move.
Mangrove and the patron were also paralysed with fear, and the others did not see it; so Sneezer
was the only creature amongst us, aware of the danger, who seemed to have his wits about him,
for the instant he noticed it, he calmly lifted his nose off the table, and gave a short startled
bark, and then crouched and drew himself back as if in the act to spring, glancing his eyes
from the monstrous jaws to my face, and nuzzling and whining with a laughing expression, and
giving a small yelp now and then, and again riveting his eyes with intense earnestness on the
alligator, telling me as plainly as if he had spoken it--"If you choose, master, I will attack
it, as in duty bound, but really such a customer is not at all in my way." And not only did
he say this, but he shewed his intellect was clear, and no way warped through fear, for he
now stood on his hind legs, and holding on the hammock with his fore paws, he thrust his snout
below the pillow, and pulled out one of my pistols, which always garnished the head of my bed,
on such expeditions as the present.

My presence of mind returned at witnessing the courage and sagacity of my noble dog. I seized
the loaded pistol, and as by this time the eyes of the alligator were inside of the toldo,
I clapped the muzzle to the larboard one, and fired.  The creature jerked back so suddenly
and convulsively, that part of the toldo was tom away: and as the dead monster fell off, the
canoe rolled as if in a seaway.  My crew shouted "Que es esto?" Peter Mangrove cheered--Sneezer
barked and yelled at a glorious rate, and could scarcely be held in the canoe--and looking
overboard, we saw the monster, twelve feet long at least, upturn his white belly to the rising
moon, struggle for a moment with his short paws, and after a solitary heavy lash of his scaly
tale, he floated away astern of us, dead and still.  To proceed poor Peter Mangrove, whose
nerves were consumedly shaken by this interlude, was seized during the night with a roasting
fever, brought on in a great measure, I believe, by fear, at finding himself so far out of
his latitude; and that he had grievous doubts as to the issue of our voyage, and as to where
we were bound for, was abundantly evident.  I dosed him most copiously with salt water, a very
cooling medicine, and no lack of it at hand.

We weighed at grey dawn, on the morning of the 15th, and at 11 o'clock, AM arrived at Chagres,
a more miserable place, were that credible, even than Porto--Bello.  The eastern side of the
harbour is formed by a small promontory that runs out into the sea about five hundred yards,
with a bright little bay to windward; while a long muddy mangrove--covered spit forms the right
hand bank as you enter the mouth or estuary of the river Chagres on the west.  The easternmost
bluff is a narrow saddle, with a fort erected on the extreme point facing the sea, which, so
far as situation is concerned, is, or ought to be, impregnable, the rock being precipitous
on three faces, while it is cut off to landward by a deep dry ditch, about thirty feet wide,
across which a movable drawbridge is let down, and this compartment of the defences is all
very regular, with scarp and counterscarp, covered--way and glacis.  The brass guns mounted
on the castle were numerous and beautiful, but every thing was in miserable disrepair; several
of the guns, for instance, had settled down bodily on the platform, having fallen through the
crushed rotten carriages. I found an efficient garrison in this stronghold of three old negroes,
who had not even a musket of any kind, but the commandant was not in the castle when I paid
my visit; however, one of the invincibles undertook to pilot me to El Senor Torre's house,
where his honour was dining.  The best house in the place this was, by the by, although only
a thatched hut; and here I found his Excellency the Commandant, a little shrivelled insignificant--looking
creature.  He was about sitting down to his dinner, of which he invited me to partake, and
as I was very hungry, I contrived to do justice to the first dish, but my stomach was grievously
offended at the second, which seemed to me to be a compound of garlic, brick dust, and train
oil, so that I was glad to hurry on board of my canoe, to settle all with a little good Madeira.

At four P.m. I proceeded up the river, which is here about a hundred yards across, and very
deep; it rolls sluggishly along through a low swampy country, covered to the water's edge with
thick sedges and underwood, below which the water stagnates, and generates myriads of musquittoes,
and other troublesome insects, and sends up whole clouds of noxious vapours, redolent of yellow
fever, and ague, and cramps, and all manner of comfortable things.

At ten P.m. we anchored by a grapnel in the stream, and I set Peter Mangrove forthwith to officiate
in his new capacity of cook, and really he made a deuced good one. I then slung my hammock
under the toldo, and lighting a slow match, at the end of it forwards, to smoke away the musquittoes,
having previously covered the aftermost end with a mat, I wrapped myself in my cloak, and turned
in to take my snooze.  We weighed again about two in the morning.  As the day dawned the dull
grey steamy clouds settled down on us once more, while the rain fell in a regular waterspout.
It was anything but a cheering prospect to look along the dreary vistas of the dull brimful
Lethe--like stream, with nothing to be seen but the heavy lowering sky above, the red swollen
water beneath, and the gigantic trees high towering overhead, and growing close to the water's
edge, laced together with black snake--like withes, while the jungle was thick and impervious,
and actually grew down into the water, for beach, or shore, or cleared bank, there was none,--all
water and underwood, except where a heavy soft slimy steaming black bank of mud hove its shining
back from out the dead waters near the shore, with one or more monstrous alligators sleeping
on it, like dirty rotten logs of wood, scarcely deigning to lift their abominable long snouts
to look at us as we passed, or to raise their long scaly tails, with the black mud sticking
to the scales in great lumps--oh--horrible--most horrible!  But the creatures, although no
beauties certainly, are harmless after all. For instance, I never heard a well--authenticated
case of their attacking a human being hereabouts; pigs and fowls they do tithe, however, like
any parson.  I don't mean to say that they would not make free with a little fat dumpling of
a piccaniny, if he were thrown to them, but they seem to have no ferocious propensities.  I
shot one of them; he was about twelve feet long; the bullet entered in the joints of the mail,
below the shoulder of the fore paw, where the hide was tender; but if you fire at them with
the scale, that is, with the monster looking at you, a musket ball will glance. I have often
in this my log spoken of the Brobdignag lizards, the guanas. I brought down one this day, about
three feet long, and found it, notwithstanding its dragon like appearance, very good eating.
At eleven AM on the 18th, we arrived at the village of Cruzes, the point where the river ceases
to be navigable for canoes, and from whence you take horse, or rather mule, for Panama.  For
about fifteen or twenty miles below Cruzes, the river becomes rapid, and full of shoals, when
the oars are laid aside, and the canoes are propelled by long poles.

The Town, as it is called, is a poor miserable place, composed chiefly of negro huts; however,
a Spanish trader of the name of Villaverde, who had come over in the Wave as a passenger, and
had preceded me in a lighter canoe, and to whom I had shown some kindness, now repaid it, as
far as lay in his power.

He lodged me for the night, and hired mules for me to proceed to Panama in the morning; so
I slung my hammock in an old Spanish soldier's house, who keeps a kind of posada, and was called
by my friend Villaverde at daydawn, whose object was, not to tell me to get ready for my journey,
but to ask me if I would go and bathe before starting.  Rather a rum sort of request, it struck
me; nevertheless, a purification, after the many disagreeables I had endured, could not come
amiss; and slipping on my trowsers, and casting my cloak on my shoulders, away we trudged to
a very beautiful spot, about a mile above Cruzes, where, to my surprise, I found a score of
Crusafios, all Altering in the water, puffing and blowing and shouting.  Now an alligator might
pick and choose, thought I; however, no one seemed in the least afraid, so I dashed amongst
them. Presently, about pistol--shot from us, a group of females appeared. Come, thought I,
rather too much for a modest young man this too; and deuce take me, as I am a gentleman, if
the whole bevy did not disrobe in cold blood, and squatter, naked as their mother Eve was in
the garden of Eden, before she took to the herbage, right into the middle of the stream, skirting
and laughing, as if not even a male musquitto had been within twenty miles.  However, my neighbour
took no notice of them; it seemed all a matter of course.  But let that pass.  About eight
o'clock A.M. I got under weigh, with Peter Mangrove, on two good stout mules, and a black guide
running before me with a long stick, with which he sprung over the sloughs and stones in the
road with great agility; I would have backed him against many a passable hunter, to do four
miles over a close country in a steeple--chase.

Panama is distant from Cruzes about seven leagues.  The road is somewhat like what the Highland
ones must have been before General Wade took them in hand, and only passable for mules; indeed,
in many places where it had been hewn out of the rock in zigzags on the face of the hill, it
is scarcely passable for two persons meeting.  But the scenery on each side is very beautiful,
as it winds, for the most part, amongst steep rocks, over shadowed by magnificent trees, amongst
which birds of all sizes, and of the most beautiful plumage, are perpetually glancing, while
a monkey, every here and there, would sit grimacing, and chattering, and scratching himself
in the cleft of a tree.

I should think, judging from my barometer--but I may have made an inaccurate calculation, and
I have not Humboldt by me--that the ridge of the highest is fifteen hundred feet above the
level of the sea, so that it would be next to impossible to join the two seas at this point
by a canal with water in it.  However, I expect to see a joint Stock Company set a--going some
fine day yet for the purpose of cutting it, that is, when the national capital next accumulates
(and Lord knows when that will be) to a plethora, and people's purses become so distended that
they require bleeding.

After travelling about twenty miles, the scene gradually opens, and one begins to dream about
Vasco Nunez and the enthusiastic first explorers of the Isthmus; but my first view of the Pacific
was through a drenching shower of rain, that wet me to the skin, and rather kept my imagination
under, for this said imagination of mine is like a barn--door chuckey brisk and crouse enough
when the sun shines, and the sky is blue, and plenty of grub at hand, but I can't write poetry
when I am could, and hungry, and drooked. Still, when I caught my first glimpse of the distant
Pacific, I felt that, even through a miserable drizzle, it was a noble prospect.

As you proceed, you occasionally pass through small open savannahs, which become larger, and
the clear spaces wider, until the forest you have been travelling under gradually breaks into
beautiful clumps of trees, like those in a gentleman's park, and every here and there a placid
clear piece of water spreads out, full of pond turtle, which I believe to be one and the same
with the tortoise, and eels; the latter of which, by the by, are very sociable creatures, for
in the clear moonlight nights, with the bright sparkling dew on the short moist grass, they
frequently travel from one pond to another, wriggling along the grass like snakes.  I have
myself found them fifty yards from the water; but whether the errand was love or war, or merely
to drink tea with some of the slippery young females in the next pool, and then return again,
the deponent sayeth not.

As you approach the town, the open spaces before--mentioned become more frequent, until at
length you gain a rising ground, about three miles from Panama, where, as the sun again shone
out, the view became truly enchanting.

There lay the town of Panama, built on a small tongue of land, jutting into the Pacific, surrounded
by walls, which might have been a formidable defence once, but I wish my promotion depended
on my rattling the old bricks and stones about their ears, with one single frigate, if I could
only get near enough; but in the impossibility of this lies the strength of the place, as the
water shoals so gradually, that the tide retires nearly a mile and a half from the walls, rising,
I consider, near eighteen feet at the springs, while, on the opposite side of the Isthmus,
at Chagres for instance, there is scarcely any at all, the gulf stream neutralizing it almost
entirely.

On the right hand a hill overhangs the town, rising precipitously to the height of a thousand
feet or thereabouts, on the extreme pinnacle of which is erected a signal station, called the
Vigia, which, at the instant I saw it, was telegraphing to some craft out at sea.  As for the
city, to assume our friend Mr Bang's mode of description, it was shaped like a tadpole, the
body representing the city, and the suburb the tail; or a stewpan, the city and its fortifications
being the pan, while the handle, tending obliquely towards us, was the Raval, or long street,
extending Savannahward, without the walls.  At the distance from which we viewed it, the red--tiled
houses, cathedral, with its towers, and the numerous monasteries and nunneries, seemed girt
in with a white ribbon, while a series of black spots here and there denoted the cannon on
the batteries.  To the left of the town, there was a whole flotilla of small craft, brigs,
schooners, and vegetable boats; while farther out at sea, beyond the fortifications, three
large ships rode at anchor; and beyond them again, the beautiful group of islands lying about
five miles off the town, appeared to float on and were reflected in the calm, glasslike expanse
of the Pacific, like emeralds chased in silver, while the ocean itself, towards the horizon,
seemed to rise up like a scene in a theatre, or a burnished bright silver wall, growing more
and more blue, and hazy and indistinct, as it ascended, until it melted into the cloudless
heaven, so that no one could tell where water and sky met.

While a sperm whale every now and then rose between us and the islands, and spouted up a high
double jet into the air, like a blast of steam, and then, with a heavy flounder of his broad
tail, slowly sank again; and a boat here and there glided athwart the scene, and a sleepy sail
arose with a slow motion and a fitful rattle, and a greasy cheep, on the mast of some vessel,
getting all ready to weigh, while small floating trails of blue smoke were streaming away astern
from the tiny cabooses of the craft at anchor, and a mournful distant "yo heave oh" came booming
past us on the light air, and the everlasting tinkle of the convent bells sounded cheerily,
and the lowing of the kine around us called up old associations in my bosom, as I looked forth
on the glorious spectacle from beneath a magnificent bower of orange--trees and shaddocks,
while all manner of wild--flowers blossomed and bloomed around us.

We arrived at Panama about three PM, covered to the eyes with mud, and after some little difficulty,
I found out Senor Hombrecillo Justo's house, who received me very kindly.  Next morning I waited
on the Governor, made my bow and told him my errand.  He was abundantly civil; professing himself
ready to serve me in any way, and promising to give me the earliest intelligence of the arrival
of the Bandera. I then returned to mine host's, to whom I had strong letters of introduction
from some Kingston friends.

I soon found that I had landed amongst a family of originals.  Mine host was a little thin
withered body, with a face that might have vied with the monkey whom the council of Aberdeen
took for a sugar planter.  He wore his own grey hair in a long greasy queue, and his costume,
when I first saw him, was white cotton stockings, white jean small clothes and waistcoat, and
a little light--blue silk coat; he wore large solid gold buckles in his shoes, and knee--buckles
of the same.  His voice was small and squeaking, and when heated in argument, or crossed by
any member of family,--and he was very touchy--it became so shrill and indistinct that it pierced
the ear without being in the least intelligible.  In those paroxysms he did not walk, but sprung
from place to place like a grasshopper, with unlooked--for agility, avoiding the chairs and
tables and other movables with great dexterity. I often thought he would have broken whatever
came in his way; but although his erratic orbit was small, he performed his evolutions with
great precision and security.  His general temper, however, was very kind, humane, and good--humoured,
and he seldom remained long under the influence of passion.  His character, both as a man and
a merchant, was unimpeachable, and, indeed, proverbial in the place.  His better half appeared
to be some years older, and also a good deal of an original. She was a little short thick woman;
but, stout as she was when I had the honour of an embrace, she must have been once much stouter,
for her skin appeared from the colour and texture to have come to her at second hand, and to
have originally belonged to a much larger person, for it bagged and hung in flaps about her
jowls and bosom, like an ill--cut maintopsail, which sits clumsily about the clews.  I think
I could have reefed her with advantage, below the chin.

Her usual dress was a shift, with a whole sailroom of frills about the sleeves and bosom, and
a heavy pink taffeta petticoat, (gowns being only worn by these fair ones as you put on a greatcoat,
that is, when they go abroad,) and a small round apron like a flap of black silk.  Over these
she wore a Spanish aroba, or twenty--five pounds weight of gold chains, saints, and crucifixes,
and a large black velvet patch, of the size of a wafer, on each temple, which I found, by the
by, to be an ornament very much in fashion amongst the fair of Panama.  Her hair, or rather
the scanty remnant thereof, was plaited into two grizzled braids, with a black bow of ribbon
at the end of each, and hung straight down her back. Like may excellent wives, she loved to
circulate her spouse's blood by a little well--timed opposition now and then; but she never
tried her strength too far, and she always softened down in proportion as he waxed energetic,
and began to accelerate his motions, so that by the time he had given one or two hops, she
had either fairly given in, or moved out. They had no children, but had in a manner adopted
a little black creature about four years old, which, being a female, the lady had christened
by the familiar diminutive of Diablita.

Another curiosity was the maternal aunt of Don Hombrecillo, a little superannuated woman about
four feet high, if she could have stood erect, but old age had long since bent her nearly double;
she was on the verge of eighty--five years of age, and had outlived all her faculties.  This
poor old creature, in place of being respectably lodged and taken care of, was allowed to go
about the house, tame, without any fixed abode so far as I could learn; nor did she always
meet with that attention, I am sorry to say it, from the family, or even from the servants,
that she was entitled to from her extreme helplessness.  She had a droll custom of eating all
her meals walking, and it was her practice to move around the dinner--table in this her dotage,
and to commit pranks, that, against my will, made me laugh, and even in despite of the feelings
of pity and self--humiliation that arose in my bosom at the sight of such miserable imbecility
in a fellow--creature.  Thus keeping on the wing as I have described, it was her practice to
cruise about behind the chairs, occasionally snatching pieces of food from before the guests,
so slyly, that the first intimation of her intentions was the appearance of her yellow shrivelled
birdlike claw in your plate.

The brother of our host was a little stout man, but still very like Senor Justo himself.  For
instance, I always gloried in likening the latter to a dried prune; then, to conceive of his
plump brother, imagine him boiled, and so swell out the creases in his skin, and there you
have him.

This little dumpling was very asthmatic, and used to blow like a porpoise by the time he reached
the top of the stairs.  The only time he had ever been out of Panama was whilst he made a short
visit to Lima, the wonders of which he used to chant unceasingly.  But the continual cause
of my annoyance--I fear I must write disgust--was the stepmother of mine host, a large fat
dirty old woman.  She had a pouch under her chin like a pelican, while her complexion, from
the quantity of oil and foul feeding in which she delighted, was a greasy mahogany.  She despised
the unnatural luxuries of knives and forks, constantly devouring her meat with her fingers,
whatever its consistency might be; if flesh, she tore it with both hands; if soup, she--bah!
and, as the devil would have it, the venerable beauty chose to take a fancy to me. Oh, she
was a balloon! I have often expected to see her rise to the roof.

These polished personages may be called Senor Justo's family, but it was occasionally increased
by various others; none of whom, however, can I heave--to to describe at present.

The day after my arrival, the operation of covering dollar boxes with wet hides had been going
on in the dinner saloon the whole forenoon, which drove me forth to look about me; but I returned
about half--past two, this being the hour of dinner, and found all the family, excepting mine
hostess, assembled, and my appearance was the signal for dinner being ordered in. I may mention
here, that this worthy family were all firmly impressed with the idea, that an Englishman was
an ostrich, possessing a stomach capable of holding and digesting four times as much as any
other person; and under this belief they were so outrageously kind, that I was often literally
stuffed to suffocation when I first came amongst them; and when at length I resolutely refused
to be immolated after this fashion, they swore I was sick, or did not like my food, which was
next door to insulting them.  El Senor Justo's fat dumpling of a brother thought medical advice
ought to be taken, for when he was in Lima several seamen belonging to an English whaler had
died, and he had remarked, the twaddling body, that they had invariably lost their appetites
previous to their dissolution.

But to return.  Dinner being ordered, was promptly placed on the table, and mine host insisted
on planting me at the foot thereof, while he sat on my left hand; so the party sat down; but
the chair opposite, that ought to have been filled by Madama herself, was still vacant.

"Adonde esta su ama," quoth Don Hombrecillo to one of the black waiting wenches.  The girl
said she did not know, but she would go and see.  It is necessary to mention here that the
worthy Senor's counting--house was in a back building, separated from the house that fronted
the street by a narrow court, and in a small closet off this counting--house, my quatre had
been rigged the previous night, and there had my luggage been deposited.  Amongst other articles
in my commissariat, there was a basket with half--a--dozen of champagne, and some hock, and
a bottle of brandy, that I had placed under Peter Mangrove's care to comfort us in the wilderness.
We all lay back in our chairs to wait for the lady of the house, but neither did she nor Tomassa,
the name of the handmaiden who had been despatched in search of her, seem inclined to make
their appearance.  Don Hombrecillo became impatient.

"Josefa,"--to another of the servants--"run and desire your mistress to come here immediately."
Away she flew, but neither did this second pigeon return.  Mine host now lost his temper entirely,
and spluttered out, as loud as he could roar, "Somos comiendo, Panchita, somos comiendo;" and
forthwith, as if in spite, he began to fork up his food, until he had nearly choked himself.
Presently a short startled scream was heard from the counting--house, then a low suppressed
laugh, then a loud shout, a long uproarious peal of laughter, and the two black servants came
thundering across the wooden gangway or drawbridge, that connected the room where we sat with
the outhouse, driven onwards by their mistress herself.  They flew across the end of the dining
room into the small balcony fronting the lane and began without ceremony to shout across the
narrow street to a Carmelite priest, who was in a gallery of the opposite monastery, "that
their mistress was possessed."

Presently in danced our landlady, in propria persona, jumping and screaming and laughing, and
snapping her fingers, and spinning round like a Turkish dervish, "mira el fandango, mira el
fandangodexa me baylar, dexa me baylar--See my fandango, see my fandangolet me dance let me
dance--ha, ha, ha."

"Panchita," screamed Justo, in extreme wrath, "tu es loco, you are mad sit down, por amor de
Dios--seas decente--be decent."

She continued gamboling about, "loven soy y virgin--I am young and a virgin--y tu Viejo diablo
que queres tu,--and you, old devil, what do you want, eh?--Una virgin por Dios soy--I am young,"
and seizing a boiled fowl from the dish, she let fly at her husband's head, but missed him,
fortunately; whereupon she made a regular grab at him with her paw, but he slid under the table,
in all haste, roaring out,--"Ave Maria, que es esso--manda por el Padre--Send for the priest,
y trae una puerco, en donde echar el demonio, manda, manda--send for a priest, and a pig, into
which the demon may be cast,--send--" "Dexa me, dexa me baylar" continued the old dame--"tu
no vale, Bobo viejo, you are of no use, you old blockhead--you are a forked radish, and not
a man--let me catch you, let me catch you," and here she made a second attempt, and got hold
of his queue, by which she forcibly dragged him from beneath the table, until fortunately,
the ribbon that tied it slid off in her hand, and the little Senor instantly ran back to this
burrow, with the speed of a rabbit, while his wife sung out, "tu gastas calzones, eh? para
que, damelos damelos, yo los quitare?" and if she had caught the worthy man, I believe she
would really have shaken him out of his garments, peeled him on the spot, and appropriated
them to herself as her threat ran.  "I am a cat, a dog, and the devilhoo--hoo--hoo--let me
catch you, you miserable wretch, you forked radish, and if I don't peel off your breeches,--I
shall wear them, I shall wear them,--Ave Maria." Here she threw herself into a chair, being
completely blown; but after a gasp or two, she started to her legs again, dancing and singing
and snapping her fingers, as if she had held castanets between them, "Venga--Venga--dexa me
baylar Dankee, Dankee la--Dankee, Dankee la--mi guitarra--mi guitarra Dankee, Dankee la--ha,
ha, ha,"--and away she trundled down stairs again, where she met the priest who had been sent
for, in the lower hall, who happened to be very handsome young man.  Seeing the state she was
in, and utterly unable to account for it, he bobbed, as she threw herself on him, eluded her
embraces, and then bolted up stairs, followed by Mrs Potiphart at full speed.--"Padre, father,"
cried she, "stop till I peel that forked radish there, and I will give you his breeches--Dankee,
Dankee." All this while, Don Hombrecillo was squeaking out from his lair, at the top of his
pipe--"Padre, padre, trae el puerco, venga el puerco--echar el demonio--echar el demonio bring
the pig, the pig, and cast out the devil."--"Mi guitarra, canta, canta y bayle, viejo diablito,
canta o yo te matarras--Bring my guitar, dance, dance and sing, you little old devil you, or
I'll murder you, dankee, dankee."

In fine, I was at length obliged to lend a hand, and she was bodily laid hold of, and put to
bed, where she soon fell into a sound sleep, and next morning awoke in her sound senses, totally
unconscious of all that had passed, excepting that she remembered having taken a glass of the
Englishman's small beer.

Now the secret was out.  The worthy woman, like most South American Spaniards, was distractedly
fond of cervesa blanca, or small beer, and seeing the champagne bottles with their wired corks
(beer requiring to be so secured in hot climates,) in my basket, she could not resist making
free with a bottle, and, as I charitably concluded, small beer being a rarity in those countries,
she did not find out the difference until it was made evident by the issue; however, I have
it from authority, that she never afterwards ventured on any thing weaker than brandy, and
from that hour, utterly eschewed that most dangerous liquor, cervesa blanca.

CHAPTER XVIII

Tropical High--links

"Now, massa, pipe belay Wid your weary, weary Log, O; Peter sick of him, me say, Ah! sick more
as one dog, O."

THE HUMBLE PETITION OF PETER MANGROVE,

BRANCH PILOT.

Like all Portuguese towns, and most Spanish, Panama does not realize the idea which a stranger
forms of it from the first view, as he descends from the savannah.  The houses are generally
built of wood, and three stories high: in the first or ground floor, are the shops; in the
second, the merchants have their warehouses; and in the third, they usually live with their
families.  Those three different regions, sorry am I to say it, are all very dirty; indeed
they may be said to be the positive, comparative, and superlative degrees of uncleanness. 
There are no glazed sashes in the windows, so that when it rains, and the shutters are closed,
you are involved in utter darkness.  The furniture is miserably scanty--some old fashioned,
high backed, hardwood chairs, with a profusion of tarnished gilding; a table or two, in the
same style, with a long grass hammock slung from corner to corner, intersecting the room diagonally,
which, as they hang very low, about six inches only from the floor, it was not once only, that
entering a house during the siesta, when the windows were darkened, I have tumbled headlong
over a Don or Dofia, taking his or her forenoon nap.  But if movables were scarce, there was
no paucity of silver dishes; basins, spit boxes, censers, and utensils of all shapes, descriptions,
and sizes, of this precious metal, were scattered about without any order or regularity, while
some nameless articles, also of silver, were thrust far out of their latitude, and shone conspicuously
in the very centre of the rooms.  The floors were usually either of hard--wood plank, ill kept;
or terraced, or tiled; some indeed were flagged with marble, but this was rare; and as for
the luxury of a carpet, it was utterly unknown, the nearest approach to it being a grass mat,
plaited prettily enough, called an estera.  Round the walls of the house are usually hung a
lot of dingy faced, worm eaten pictures of saints, and several crucifixes, which appear to
be held in great veneration.  The streets are paved, but exceedingly indifferently; and the
frequent rains, or rather waterspouts, (and from the position of the place, between the two
vast oceans of the Atlantic and Pacific, they have considerably more than their own share of
moisture,) washing away the soil and sand from between the stones, render the footing for bass
of all kinds extremely insecure.  There are five monasteries of different orders, and a convent
of nuns, within the walls, most of which, I believe, are but poorly endowed.  All these have
handsome churches attached to them; that of La Merced is very splendid.  The cathedral is also
a fine building, with some good pictures, and several lay relics of Pizarro, Almagro, and Vasco
Nufiez, that riveted my attention; while their fragments of the Vera Cruz, and arrow points
that had quivered in the muscles of St Sebastian, were passed by as weak inventions of the enemy.

The week after my arrival was a fast, the men eating only once in the twenty our hours, (as
for the women, who the deuce can tell how often a woman eats?) and during this period all the
houses were stripped of their pictures, lamps, and ornaments, to dress out the churches, which
were beautifully illuminated in the evenings, while a succession of friars performed service
in them continually.  High mass is, even to the eye of a heretic, a very splendid ceremony;
and the music in this outlandish corner was unexpectedly good, every thing considered; in the
church of La Merced, especially, they had a very fine organ, and the congregation joined in
the Jubilate with very good taste.  By the way, in this same church, on the right of the high
altar, there was a deep and lofty recess, covered with a thick black veil, in which stood concealed
a figure of our Saviour, as large as life, hanging on a great cross, with the blood flowing
from his wounds, and all kinds of horrible accompaniments.  At a certain stage of the service,
a drum was beaten by one of the brethren, upon which the veil was withdrawn, when the whole
congregation prostrated themselves before the image, with every appearance of the greatest
devotion.  Even the passengers in the streets within ear--shot of the drum, stopped and uncovered
themselves, and muttered a prayer; while the inmates of the houses knelt, and crossed themselves,
with all the externals of deep humility; although, very probably, they were at the moment calculating
in their minds the profits on the last adventure from Kingston.  One custom particularly struck
me as being very beautiful.  As the night shuts in, after a noisy prelude on all the old pots
in the different steeples throughout the city, there is a dead pause; presently the great bell
of the cathedral tolls slowly, once or twice, at which every person stops from his employment,
whatever that may be, or wherever he may be, uncovers himself, and says a short prayer--all
hands remaining still and silent for a minute or more, when the great bell tolls again, and
once more every thing rolls on as usual.

On the fourth evening of my residence in Panama, I had retired early to rest.  My trusty knave,
Peter Mangrove, and trustier still, my dog Sneezer, had both fallen asleep on the floor, at
the foot of my bed, if the piece of machinery on which I lay deserved that name, when in the
dead of night I was awakened by a slight noise at the door. I shook myself and listened.  Presently
it opened, and the old woman that I have already described as part and portion of Don Hombrecillo
Justo's family, entered the room in her usual very scanty dress, with a lighted candle in her
hand, led by a little naked negro child.  I was curious to see what she would do, but I was
not certain how the dog might relish the intrusion; so I put my hand over my quatre, and snapping
my finger and thumb, Sneezer immediately rose and came to my bedside.  I immediately judged,
from the comical expression of his face, as seen by the taper of the intruder, that he thought
it was some piece of fun, for he walked quietly up, and confronting the old lady, deliberately
took the candlestick out of her hand.  The little black urchin thereupon began shouting, "Perro
Demonio--Perro Demonio" and in their struggle to escape, she and the old lady tumbled headlong
over the sleeping pilot, whereby the candle was extinguished, and we were left in utter darkness.
I had therefore nothing for it but to get out of bed, and go down to the cobbler, who lived
in the entresol, to get a light.  He had not gone to sleep and I gave him no small alarm; indeed
he was near absconding at my unseasonable intrusion, but at length I obtained the object of
my visit, and returned to my room, when, on opening the door, I saw poor Mangrove lying on
his back in the middle of the floor, with his legs and arms extended as if he had been on the
rack, his eyes set, his mouth open, and every faculty benumbed by fear.  At his feet sat the
negro child, almost as much terrified as he was, and crying most lamentably; while, at a little
distance, sat the spectre of the old woman, scratching its head with the greatest composure,
and exclaiming in Spanish, "a little brandy for love of the Holy Virgin." But the most curious
part of it was the conduct of our old friend Sneezer.  There he was sitting on end upon the
table, grinning and showing his ivory teeth, his eyes of jet sparkling like diamonds with fun
and frolic, and evidently laughing, after his fashion, like to split himself, as he every now
and then gave a large sweeping whisk of his tail, like a cat watching a mouse.  At length I
got the cobbler and his sable rib to take charge of the wanderers, and once more fell asleep.

On my first arrival, I was somewhat surprised at my Spanish acquaintances always putting, up
their umbrellas when abroad after nightfall in the streets; the city had its evil customs,
it seemed, as well as others of more note, with this disadvantage, that no one had the discretion
to sing out gardyloo.

There was another solemn fast about this time, in honour of a saint having had a tooth drawn,
or some equally important event, and Don Hombrecillo and I had been at the evening service
in the church of the convent of La Merced, situated, as I have already mentioned, directly
opposite his house, on the other side of the lane; and this being over, we were on the eve
of returning home, when the flannel--robed superior came up and invited us into the refectory,
whereunto, after some palaver, we agreed to adjourn, and had a good supper, and some bad Malaga
wine, which, however, seemed to suit the palates of the Frailes, if taking a very decent quantity
thereof were any proof of the same. Presently two of the lay brothers produced their fiddles,
and as I was determined not to be outdone, I volunteered a song, and, as a key--stone to my
politeness, sent to Don Hombrecillo's for the residue of my brandy, which, coming after the
bad wine, acted most cordially, opening the hearts of all hands like an oyster knife, the Superior's
especially, who in turn drew on his private treasure also, when out came a large green vitrified
earthen pipkin, one of those round nbottomed jars that won't stand on end, but must perforce
lie on their sides, as if it had been a type of the predicament in which some of us were to
be placed ere long through its agency.  The large cork, buried an inch deep in green wax, was
withdrawn from the long neck, and out gurgled most capital old Xeres. So we worked away until
we were all pretty well fou, and anon we began to dance; and there were half--a--dozen friars,
and old Justo and myself, in great glee, jumping and gamboling about, and making fools of ourselves
after a very fantastic fashion--the witches in Macbeth as an illustration.

At length, after being two months in Panama, and still no appearance of the Bandera, I received
a letter from the Admiral, desiring me to rejoin the Wave immediately, as it was then known
that the line of battle ship had returned to the River Plate.  Like most young men, who have
hearts of flesh in their bosoms, I had in this short space begun to have my likings--may I
not call them friendships?--in this, at the time I write of, most primitive community; and
the idea of bidding farewell to it, most likely for ever, sank deep.  However, I was His Majesty's
officer, and my services and obedience were his, although my feelings were my own; and, accordingly,
stifling the latter, I prepared for my departure.

On the very day whereon I was recalled, a sister of mine host's--a most reverend mechanic,
who had been fourteen years married without chick or child--was brought to bed, to the unutterable
surprise of her spouse, and of all the little world in Panama, of a male infant.  It had rained
the whole day, notwithstanding which, and its being the only authenticated production ever
published by the venerable young lady, the piccaniny was carried to the Franciscan church,
a distance of half a mile, at nine o'clock at night, through a perfect storm, to be christened,
and the evil star of poor Mangrove rose high in the ascendant on the occasion.

After the ceremony, I was returning home chilled with standing uncovered for an hour in a cold
damp church, and walking very fast, in order to bring myself into heat, when, on turning a
corner, I heard a sound of flutes and fiddles in the street, and from the number of lanterns
and torches that accompanied it, I conjectured rightly that it was a Function of no small importance--no
less, in fact, than a procession in honour of the Virgin.  Poor Mangrove at this time was pattering
close to my heels, and I could hear him chuckling and laughing to himself.

"What dis can be--I say, Sneezer"--to his never--failing companion "what you tink, John Canoe--after
Spanish fashion, it mosh be, eh?"

The dog began to jump and gambol about.

"Ah," continued the black pilot, "no doubt it must be John Canoe I may dance--why not--eh?--oh,
yes--I shall dance."

And as the music struck into rather a quicker tune at the moment, our ebony friend began to
caper and jump about as if he had been in Jamaica at Christmas time, whereupon one of the choristers,
or music boys, as they were called, a beautiful youth, about forty years of age, six feet high,
and proportionally strong, without the least warning incontinently smote our amigo across the
pate with a brazen saint that he carried, and felled him to the earth; indeed, if el Senor
Justo had not been on the spot to interfere, we should have had a scene of it in all likelihood,
as the instant the man delivered his blow, Sneezer's jaws were at his throat, and had he not
fortunately obeyed me, and let go at the sound of my voice, we might have had a double of Macaire
and the dog of Montargis. As it was, the noble animal, before he let go, brought the culprit
to the ground like a shot.  I immediately stood forward, and got the feud soldered as well
as I could, in which the worthy Justo cordially lent me a hand.

Next morning I rode out on my mule, to take my last dip in the Quebrada of the Loseria, which
was a rapid in a beautiful little rivulet, distant from Panama about three miles, and a most
exquisite bath it was.  Let me describe it.  After riding a couple of miles, and leaving the
open savannah, you struck off sharp to the left through a narrow bridle--path into the wood,
with an impervious forest on either hand, and proceeding a mile farther, you came suddenly
upon a small rushing, roaring, miniature cascade, where the pent--up waters leaped through
a narrow gap in the limestone rock, that you could have stepped across, down a tiny fall about
a fathom high, into a round foaming buzzing basin, twenty feet in diameter, where the clear
cool water bubbled and eddied round and round like a boiling cauldron, until it rushed away
once more over the lower ledge, and again disappeared, murmuring beneath the thick foliage
of the rustling branches.  The pool was about ten feet deep, and never was any thing more luxurious
in a hot climate.

After having performed my morning ablutions, and looking with a heavy heart at the sweet stream,
and at every stock and stone, and shrub and tree, as objects I was never to see again; I trotted
on, followed by Peter Mangrove, my man--at--arms, who bestrode his mule gallantly, to Don Hombrecillo's
pen, as the little man delighted to call his country house, situated about five miles from
Panama, and which I was previously informed had been given up to the use of his two maiden
sisters. I got there about half past ten in the forenoon, and found that el Senor Justo had
arrived before me.  The situation was most beautiful; the house was embosomed in high wood;
the lowest spurs put forth by the gigantic trees being far above the ridge--pole of the wooden
fabric.  It was a low one story building of unpainted timber, which, from the action of the
weather, had been bleached on the outside into a whitish grey appearance, streaked by numerous
green weather--stains, and raised about five feet on wooden posts, so that there was room for
a flock of goats to shelter themselves below it. Access was had to the interior by a rickety
rattle--trap of a wooden ladder, or stair of half--a--dozen steps, at the top of which you
landed in an unceiled hall, with the rafters of the roof exposed, and the bare green vitrified
tiles for a canopy, while a small sleeping apartment opened off each end.  In the centre room
there was no furniture except two grass hammocks slung across the room, and three or four old--fashioned
leather, or rather hide covered chairs, and an old rickety table; while overhead the tiles
were displaced in one or two places, where the droppings from the leaves of the trees, and
the sough of their rustling in the wind, came through. There were no inmates visible when we
entered but a little negro girl, of whom el Senor Hombrecillo asked "where the Senoras were?"--"En
capillo," said the urchin.  Whereupon we turned back and proceeded to a little tiny stone chapel,
little bigger than a dog--house, the smallest affair in the shape of a church I had ever seen,
about a pistol--shot distant in the wood, where we found the two old ladies and Senor Justo's
natural son engaged at their devotions. On being aware of our presence, they made haste with
the service, and, having finished it, arose and embraced their brother, while the son approached
and kissed his hand.

One of the ancient demoiselles appeared in bad health; nevertheless, they both gave us a very
hearty reception, and prepared breakfast for us; fricasseed fowls, a little too much of the
lard, but still, fish from the neighbouring stream, &c., and I was doing the agreeable to the
best of my poor ability, when el Senor Justo asked me abruptly if I would go, and bathe.  A
curious country, thought I, and a strange way people have of doing things.  After a hearty
meal, instead of giving you time to ruminate, and to allow the gastric juices to operate, away
they lug you to be plumped over head and ears into a pool of ice cold water. I rose, confoundedly
against my inclinations I will confess, and, we proceeded to a small rocky waterfall, where
a man might wash himself certainly, but as to swimming, which is to me the grand desideratum,
it was impossible, so I prowled away down the stream, to look out for a pool, and at last I
was successful. On returning, as I only took a dip to swear by, the situation of my venerable
Spanish ally was entertaining enough.  There he was, the most forlorn little mandrake eye ever
rested on, cowering like a large frog under the tiny cascade, stark naked, with his knees drawn
up to his chin, and his grey queue gathered carefully under a green gourd or calabash that
he wore on his head, while his natural son was dashing water in his face, as if the shower
bath overhead had not been sufficient.

"Soy banando--soy banando, capitan--fresco--fresquito," squealed Hombrecillo; while, splash
between every exclamation, his dutiful son let fly a gourdfull of agua at his head.

That same evening we returned to Panama; and next morning, being the 22d of such a month, I
left my kind friends, and, with Peter Mangrove, proceeded on our journey to Cruces, mounted
on two stout mules.  I got there late in the evening, the road, from the heavy rains, being
in sad condition; but next morning the recua, or convoy of silver, which was to follow me for
shipment on merchants account to Kingston, had not arrived.  Presently I received a letter
from Don Justo, sent express, to intimate that the muleteers had proceeded immediately after
we had started for about a mile beyond the suburbs, where they were stopped by the officer
of a kind of military post or barrier, under pretence of the passport being irregular; and
this difficulty was no sooner cleared up, than the accounts of a bullfight, that was unexpectedly
to take place that forenoon, reached them, when the whole bunch, half drunk as they were, started
off to Panama again, leaving the money with the soldiers; nor would they return, or be prevailed
on to proceed, until the following morning.  However, on the 24th, at noon, the money did arrive,
which was immediately embarked on board of a large canoe that I had provided; and, having shipped
a beautiful little mule also, of which I had made a purchase at Panama, we proceeded down the
river to the village of Gorgona, where we slept.  My apartment was rather a primitive concern.
It was simply a roof or shed, thatched with palm--tree leaves, about twelve feet long by eight
broad, and supported on four upright posts at the corners, the eaves being about six feet high.
Under this I slung my grass hammock transversely from corner to corner, tricing it well up
to the rafters, so that it hung about five feet from the ground; while beneath Mangrove lit
a fire, for the twofold purpose, as it struck me, of driving off the musquittoes, and converting
his Majesty's officer into ham or hung beef; and after having made mulo fast to one of the
posts, with a bundle of malojo, or the green stems of Indian corn or maize, under his nose,
he borrowed a plank from a neighbouring hut, and laid himself down on it at full length, covered
up with a blanket, as if he had been a corpse, and soon fell fast asleep.  As for Sneezer,
he lay with his black muzzle resting on his fore paws, which were thrust out straight before
him, until they almost stirred up the white embers of the fire; with his eyes shut, and apparently
asleep, but from the constant nervous twitchings and pricking up of his ears, and his haunches
being gathered up well under him, and a small quick switch of his tail now and then, it was
evident he was broad awake, and considered himself on duty.  All continued quiet and silent
in our bivouac until midnight, however, except the rushing of the river hard by, when I was
awakened by the shaking of the shed from the violent struggles of mulo to break loose, his
strong trembling thrilling along the taught cord that held him, down the lanyard of my hammock
to my neck, as he drew himself in the intervals of his struggles as far back as he could, proving
that the poor brute suffered under a paroxysm of fear.  "What noise is that?" I roused myself.
It was repeated.  It was a wild cry, or rather a loud shrill mew, gradually sinking into a
deep growl.  "What the deuce is that, Sneezer?" said I. The dog made no answer, but merely
wagged his tail once, as if he had said, "Wait a bit now, master; you shall see how well I
shall acquit myself, for this is in my way." Ten yards from the shed under which I slept, there
was a pigsty, surrounded by a sort of tiny stockade a fathom high, make of split cane, wove
into wickerwork between upright rails sunk into the ground; and by the clear moonlight I could,
as I lay in my hammock, see an animal larger than an English bulldog, but with the stealthy
pace of the cat, crawl on in a crouching attitude until within ten feet of the sty, when it
stopped, looked round, and then drew itself back, and made a scrambling jump against the cane
defence, hooking on to the top of it by its fore paws. the claws of its hind feet scratching
and rasping against the dry cane splits, until it had gathered its legs into a bunch, like
the aforesaid puss, on the top of the enclosure; from which elevation the creature seemed to
be reconnoitring the unclean beasts within.  I grasped my pistols.  Mangrove was still sound
asleep.  The struggles of mulo increased; I could hear the sweat raining off him; but Sneezer,
to my great surprise, remained motionless as before.  We now heard the alarmed grunts, and
occasionally a sharp squeak, from the piggery, as if the beauties had only now become aware
of the vicinity of their dangerous neighbour, who, having apparently made his selection, suddenly
dropped down amongst them; when mulo burst from his fastenings with a yell enough to frighten
the devil, tearing away the upright to which the lanyard of my hammock was made fast, whereby
I was pitched like a shot right down on Mangrove's corpus, while a volley of grunting and squeaking
split the sky, such as I never heard before; while, in the very nick, Sneezer, starting from
his lair with a loud bark, sprang at a bound into the enclosure, which he topped like a first
rate hunter; and Peter Mangrove, awakening all of a heap from my falling on him, jumped upon
his feet as noisy as the rest.

"Caramighty in a tap--wurra all dis--my tomach bruise home to my backbone like one pancake;"
and, while the short fierce bark of the noble dog was blended with the agonized cry of the
gatto del monte, the shrill treble of the poor porkers rose high above both, and mulo was galloping
through the village with the post after him, like a dog with a pan at his tail, making the
most unearthly noises; for it was neither bray nor neigh.  The villagers ran out of their huts,
headed by the Padre Cura, and all was commotion and uproar.  Lights were procured. The noise
in the sty continued, and Mangrove, the warm hearted creature, unsheathing his knife, clambered
over the fence to the rescue of his four footed ally, and disappeared, shouting, "Sneezer often
fight for Peter, so Peter now will fight for he;" and soon began to blend his shouts with the
cries of the enraged beasts within.  At length the mania spread to me upon hearing the poor
fellow shout, "Tiger here, Captain tiger here tiger too many for we--Lud--a--mercy--tiger too
many for we, sir,--if you no help we, we shall be torn in piece." Then a violent struggle,
and a renewal of the uproar, and of the barking, and yelling, and squeaking.  It was now no
joke; the life of a fellow--creature was at stake.  So I scrambled up after the pilot to the
top of the fence, with a loaded pistol in my hand, a young active Spaniard following with a
large brown wax candle, that burned like a torch; and looking down on the melee below, there
Sneezer lay with the throat of the leopard in his jaws, evidently much exhausted, but still
giving the creature a cruel shake now and then, while Mangrove was endeavouring to throttle
the brute with his bare hands.  As for the poor pigs, they were all huddled together, squeaking
and grunting most melodiously in the corner. I held down the light.  "Now, Peter, cut his throat,
man--cut his throat."

Mangrove, the moment he saw where he was, drew his knife across the leopard's weasand, and
killed him on the spot.  The glorious dog, the very instant he felt he had a dead antagonist
in his fangs, let go his hold, and making a jump with all his remaining strength, for he was
bleeding much, and terribly torn, I caught him by the nape of the neck, and, in my attempt
to lift him over and place him on the outside, down I went, dog and all, amongst the pigs,
upon the bloody carcass; out of which mess I was gathered by the Cura and the standers by in
a very beautiful condition; for, what between the filth of the sty and blood of the leopard,
and so forth, I was not altogether a fit subject, for a side box at the Opera.

This same tiger or leopard had committed great depredations in the neighbourhood for months
before, but he had always escaped, although he had been repeatedly wounded; so Peter and I
became as great men for the two hours longer that we sojourned in Gorgona, as if we had killed
the dragon of Wantley. Our quarry was indeed a noble animal, nearly seven feet from, the nose
to the tip of the tail.  At day dawn, having purchased his skin for three dollars, I shoved
off; and, on the 25th, at five in the evening, having had a strong current with us the whole
way down, we arrived at Chagres once more. I found a boat from the Wave waiting for me, and
to prevent unnecessary delay, I resolved to proceed with the canoe along the coast to Porto
Bello, as there was a strong weather current running, and no wind; and, accordingly, we proceeded
next morning, with the canoe in tow, but towards the afternoon it came on to blow, which forced
us into a small cove, where we remained for the night in a very uncomfortable situation, as
the awning proved an indifferent shelter from the rain, that descended in torrents.

We had made ourselves as snug as it was possible to be in such weather, under an awning of
boat sails, and had kindled a fire in a tub at the bottom of the boat, at which we had made
ready some slices of beef, and roasted some yams, and were, all hands, master and men, making
ourselves comfortable with a glass of grog, when the warp by which we rode suddenly parted,
from a puff of wind that eddied down on us over the little cape, and before we could get the
oars out, we were tailing on the beach at the opposite side of the small bay.  However, we
soon regained our original position, by which time all was calm again where we lay; and this
time, we sent the end of the line ashore, making it fast round a tree, and once more rode in
safety.  But I could not sleep, and the rain having ceased, the clouds broke away, and the
moon once more shone out cold, bright, and clear.  I had stepped forward from under the temporary
awning, and was standing on the thwart, looking out to windward, endeavouring to judge of the
weather at sea, and debating in my own mind whether it would be prudent to weigh before daylight,
or remain where we were.  But all in the offing, beyond the small headland, under the lee of
which we lay, was dark and stormy water, and white crested howling waves, although our snug
little bay continued placid and clear, with the moonbeams dancing on the twinkling ripple,
that was lap, lapping, an& sparkling like silver on the snow--white beach of sand and broken
shells; while the hills on shore that rose high and abrupt close to, were covered with thick
jungle, from which, here and there, a pinnacle of naked grey rock would shoot up like a gigantic
spectre, or a tall tree would cast its long black shadow over the waving sea of green leaves
that undulated in the breeze beneath.

As the wind was veering about rather capriciously, I had cast my eye anxiously along the warp,
to see how it bore the strain, when to my surprise it appeared to thicken at the end next the
tree, and presently something like a screw, about a foot long, that occasionally shone like
glass in the moonlight, began to move along the taught line, with a spiral motion.  All this
time one of the boys was fast asleep, resting on his folded arms on the gunwale, his head having
dropped down on the stem of the boat; but one of the Spanish bogas in the canoe, which was
anchored close to us, seeing me gazing at something, now looked in the same direction; the
instant he caught the object, he thumped with his palms on the side of the canoe exclaiming,
in a loud alarmed tone-- "Culebra--culebra,--a snake, a snake,"--on which the reptile made
a sudden and rapid slide down the line towards the bow of the boat where the poor lad was sleeping,
and immediately afterwards dropped into the sea.

The sailor rose and walked aft, as if nothing had happened, amongst his messmates, who had
been alarmed by the cries of the Spanish canoe man, and I was thinking little of the matter,
when I heard some anxious whispering amongst them.

"Fred," said one of the men, "what is wrong, that you breathe so hard?"

"Why, boy, what ails you?" said another.

"Something has stung me," at length said the poor little fellow, speaking thick, as if he had
laboured under sore throat.  The truth flashed on me, a candle was lit, and, on looking at
him, he appeared stunned, complained of cold, and suddenly assumed a wild startled look.

He evinced great anxiety and restlessness, accompanied by a sudden and severe prostration of
strength--still continuing to complain of great and increasing cold and chilliness, but he
did not shiver. As yet no part of his body was swollen, except very slightly about the wound;
however, there was a rapidly increasing rigidity of the muscles of the neck and throat, and
within half an hour after he was bit, he was utterly unable to swallow even liquids.  The small
whip--snake, the most deadly asp in the whole list of noxious reptiles peculiar to South America,
was not above fourteen inches long; it had made four small punctures with its fangs, right
over the left jugular vein, about an inch below the chin.  There was no blood oozing from them,
but a circle about the size of a crownpiece of dark red surrounded them, gradually melting
into blue at the outer rim, which again became fainter and fainter, until it disappeared in
the natural colour of the skin.  By the advice of he Spanish boatman, we applied an embrocation
of the leaves of the palma Christi, or castor--oil nut, as hot as the lad could bear it, but
we had neither oil nor hot milk to give internally, both of which they informed us often proved
specifics.  Rather than lie at anchor, until morning, under these melancholy circumstances,
I shoved out into the rough water, but we made little of it, and when the day broke, I saw
that the poor fellow's fate was sealed.  His voice had become inarticulate, the coldness had
increased, all motion in the extremities had ceased, the legs and arms became quite stiff,
the respiration slow and difficult, as if the blood had coagulated, and could no longer circulate
through the heart; or as if, from some unaccountable effect of the poison on the nerves, the
action of the former had been impeded;-- still the poor little fellow was perfectly sensible,
and his eye bright and restless.  His breathing became still more interrupted--he could no
longer be said to breathe, but gasped--and in another half hour, like a steam--engine when
the fire is withdrawn, the strokes, or contractions and expansions of his heart became slower
and slower, until they ceased altogether.

From the very moment of his death, the body began rapidly to swell, and become discoloured;
the face and neck, especially, were nearly as black as ink within half an hour of it, when
blood began to flow from the mouth, and other symptoms of rapid decomposition succeeded each
other so fast, that by nine in the morning we had to sew him up in a boat sail, with a large
stone, and launch the body into the sea.

We continued to struggle against the breeze until eleven o'clock in the forenoon of the 27th,
when the wind again increased to such a pitch, that we had to cast off our tow, and leave her
on the coast under the charge of little Reefpoint, with instructions to remain in the creek
where he was, until the schooner picked him up; we then pushed once more through the surf for
Porto Bello, where we arrived in safety at five P.m. Next morning at daylight we got under
weigh, and stood down for the canoe, and having received the money on board, and the Spaniards
who accompanied it, and poor mulo, we made sail for Kingston, Jamaica, and on the 4th of the
following month were off Carthagena once more, having been delayed by calms and light winds.
The captain of the port shoved out to us, and I immediately recognized him as the officer to
whom poor old Deadeye once gave a deuced fright, when we were off the town, in the old Torch,
during the siege, and about a fortnight before she foundered in the hurricane; but in the present
instance he was all civility; on his departure we made sail, and arrived at Kingston, safe
and sound, in the unusually short passage of sixty hours from the time we left Carthagena.

Here the first thing I did was to call on some of my old friends, with one of whom I found
a letter lying for me from Mr Bang, requesting a visit at his domicile in St Thomas in the
Vale so soon as I arrived; and through the extreme kindness of my Kingston allies, I had, on
my intention of accepting it being known, at least half a dozen gigs offered to me, with servants
and horses, and I don't know what all. I made my selection, and had arranged to start at day--dawn
next morning, when a cousin of mine, young Palma, came in where I was dining, and said that
his mother and the family had arrived in town that very day, and were bound on a picnic party
next morning to visit the Falls in St David's. I agreed to go, and to postpone my visit to
friend Aaron for the present; and very splendid scenery did we see; but as I had seen the Falls
of Niagara, of course I was not astonished.  There was a favourite haunt and cave of Three--fingered
Jack shown to us in the neighbourhood, very picturesque and romantic, and all that sort of
thing, but I was escorting my Mary, and the fine scenery and roaring waters were at this time
thrown away on me.  However, there was one incident amusing enough. Mary and I had wandered
away from the rest of the party, about a mile above the cascade, where the river was quiet
and still, and divided into several tiny streams or pools, by huge stones that had rolled from
the precipitous banks, down into its channel; when on turning an angle of the rock, we came
unexpectedly on my old ally Whiffle, with a cigar in his mouth, seated on a cane bottomed chair,
close to the brink of the water, with a little low table at his right hand, on which stood
a plate of cold meat, over which his black servant held a green branch, with which he was brushing
the flies away, while a large rummer of cold brandy grog was immersed in the pool at his feet,
covered up with a cool plantain leaf.  He held a long fishing rod in his hands, eighteen feet
at the shortest, fit to catch salmon with, which he had to keep nearly upright, in order to
let his hook drop into the pool, which was not above five feet wide--why he did not heave it
by hand I am sure I cannot tell; indeed, I would as soon have thought of angling for gold fish
in my aunt's glass globe--and there he sat fishing with great complacency. However, he seemed
a little put out when we came up.  "Ah, Tom, how do you do?--Miss, your most obsequious--no
rain mullet deucedly shy, Tom-- ah! what a glorious nibble--there--there again--I have him;"
and sure enough, he had hooked a fine mountain mullet, weighing about a pound and a half, and
in the ecstasy of the moment, and his hurry to land him handsomely, he regularly capsized in
his chair, upset the rummer of brandy grog and table and all the rest of it.  We had a good
laugh, and then rejoined our party, and that evening we all sojourned at Lucky Valley, a splendid
coffee estate, with a most excellent man and an exceedingly obliging fellow for a landlord.

Next day we took a long ride, to visit a German gentleman, who had succeeded in a wonderful
manner in taming fish.  He received us very hospitably, and after lunch, we all proceeded to
his garden, through which ran a beautiful stream of the clearest water.  It was about four
feet broad, and a foot deep, where it entered the garden, but gradually widened in consequence
of a dam with stakes at the top having been erected at the lower part of it, until it became
a pool twelve feet broad, and four feet deep, of the most beautiful crystal clear water that
can be imagined, while the margin on both sides was fringed with the fairest flowers that Europe
or the tropics could afford.  We all peered into the stream, but could see nothing except an
occasional glance of a white scale or fin now and then.--"Liverpool!" shouted the old German
who was doing the honours--"Liverpool, come bring de food for de fis." Liverpool, a respectable--looking
negro, approached, and stooping down at the water's edge, held a piece of roasted plantain
close to the surface of it.  In an instant, upwards of a hundred mullet, large fine fish, some
of them above a foot long, rushed from out the dark clear depths of the quiet pool, and jumped,
and walloped, and struggled for the food, although the whole party were standing close by.
Several of the ladies afterwards tried their hand, and the fish, although not apparently quite
so confident, after a tack here and a tack there, always in the end came close to and made
a grab at what was held to them.

That evening I returned to Kingston, where I found an order lying for me to repair as second--lieutenant
on board the Firebrand once more, and to resign the command of the Wave to no less a man than
Moses Yerk, esquire; and a happy man was Moses, and a gallant fellow he proved himself in her,
and earned laurels and good freights of specie, and is now comfortably domiciled amongst his
friends.

The only two Waves, that I successfully made interest at their own request to get back with
me, were Tailtackle, and little Reefpoint.

Time wore on--days and weeks and months passed away, during which we were almost constantly
at sea, but incidents worth relating had grown scarce, as we were now in piping times of peace,
when even a stray pirate had become a rarity, and a luxury denied to all but the small craft
people.  On one of our cruises, however, we had been working up all morning to the southward
of the Pedro shoals, with the wind strong at east, a hard fiery sea--breeze.  We had hove--about,
some three hours before, and were standing in towards the land, on the starboard tack, when
the look--out at the masthead hailed.

"The water shoals on the weather bow, sir;" and presently, "breakers right ahead."

"Very well," I replied--"all right."

"We are nearing the reefs, sir," said I, walking aft and addressing Captain Transom; "shall
we stand by to go about, sir?"

"Certainly--heave in stays as soon as you like, Mr Cringle."

At this moment the man aloft again sung out--"There is a wreck on the weather most point of
the long reef, sir."

"Ay! what does she look like?"

"I see the stumps of two lower masts, but the bowsprit is gone, sir--I think she must be a
schooner or a brig, sir."

The Captain was standing by, and looked up to me, as I stood on the long eighteen at the weather--gangway.

"Is the breeze not too strong, Mr Cringle?"

I glanced my eye over the side--"Why, no, sir--a boat will live well enough--there is not so
much sea in shore here."

"Very well--haul the courses up, and heave--to."

It was done.

"Pipe away the yawlers, boatswain's mate."

The boat over the lee--quarter was lowered, and I was sent to reconnoitre the object that had
attracted our attention.  As we approached, we passed the floating swollen carcasses of several
bullocks, and some pieces of wreck; and getting into smooth water, under the lee of the reef,
we pulled up under the stem of the shattered hull which lay across it, and scrambled on deck
by the boat tackles, that hung from the davits, as if the jolly--boat had recently been lowered.
The vessel was a large Spanish schooner, apparently about one hundred and eighty tons burden,
nearly new; every thing strong and well fitted about her, with a beautiful spacious flush--deck,
surrounded by high solid bulwarks.  All the boats had disappeared; they might either have been
carried away by the crew, or washed overboard by the sea.  Both masts were gone about ten feet
above the deck; which, with the whole of their spars and canvass, and the wreck of the bowsprit,
were lumbering and rattling against the lee--side of the vessel, and splashing about in the
broken water, being still attached to the hull by the standing rigging, no part of which had
been cut away.  The mainsail, foresail, fore--topsail, fore--staysail, and jib were all set,
so she must most likely have gone on the reef, either under a press of canvass in the night,
in ignorance of its vicinity, or by missing stays.

She lay on her beam--ends across the coral rock, on which there was about three feet water
where shallowest, and had fallen over to leeward, presenting her starboard broadside to the
sea, which surged along it in a slanting direction, while the lee gunwale was under water.
The boiling white breakers were dashing right against her bows, lifting them up with every
send, and thundering them down again against the flint-- hard coral spikes, with a loud gritting
rumble; while every now and then the sea made a fair breach over them, flashing up over the
whole deck aft to the tafferel in a snow storm of frothy flakes.  Forward in the bows there
lay, in one horrible fermenting and putrefying mass, the carcasses of about twenty bullocks,
part of her deck--load of cattle, rotted into one hideous lump, with the individual bodies
of the poor brutes almost obliterated and undistinguishable, while streams of decomposed animal
matter were ever and anon flowing down to leeward, although as often washed away by the hissing
waters.  But how shall I describe the scene of horror that presented itself in the after part
of the vessel, under the lee of the weather--bulwarks!

There, lashed to the ring--bolts, and sheltered from the sun and sea, by a piece of canvass,
stretched across a broken oar, lay, more than half naked, the dead bodies of an elderly female,
and three young women; one of the latter with two lifeless children fastened by handkerchiefs
to her waist, while each of the other two had the corpse of an infant firmly clasped in her arms.

It was the dry season, and as they lay right in the wake of the windward ports, exposed to
a thorough draft of air, and were defended from the sun and the spray, no putrefaction had
taken place; the bodies looked like mummies, the shrunken muscles, and wasted features, being
covered with a dry horny skin, like parchment; even the eyes remained full and round, as if
they had been covered over with a hard dim scale.

On looking down into the steerage, we saw another corpse, that of a tall young slip of a Spanish
girl, surging about in the water, which reached nearly to the deck, with her long black hair
floating and spread out all over her neck and bosom, but it was so offensive and decayed, that
we were glad to look another way.  There was no male corpse to be seen, which, coupled with
the absence of the boats, evinced but too clearly that the crew had left the females, with
their helpless infants, on the wreck to perish.  There was a small roundhouse on the after--part
of the deck, in which we found three other women alive, but wasted to skeletons.  We took them
into the boat, but one died in getting her over the side; the other two we got on board, and
I am glad to say that they both recovered.  For two days neither could speak; there seemed
to be some rigidity about the throat and mouth that prevented them; but at length the youngest--(the
other was her servant)--a very handsome woman, became strong enough to tell us, "that it was
the schooner Caridad that we had boarded, bound from Rio de la Hache to Savana la Mar, where
she was to have discharged her deck--load of cattle, and afterwards to have proceeded to Batabano,
in Cuba.  She had struck, as I surmised, in the night, about a fortnight before we fell in
with her; and next morning, the crew and male passengers took to the boats, which with difficulty
contained them, leaving the women under a promise to come back that evening, with assistance
from the shore, but they never appeared, nor were they ever after heard of." And here the poor
thing cried as if her heart would break.  "Even my own Juan, my husband, left me and my child
to perish on the wreck.  Oh God!  Oh God!  I could not have left him--I could not have left him."

There had been three families on board, with their servants, who were emigrating to Cuba, all
of whom had been abandoned by the males, who, as already related, must in all human probability
have perished after their unmanly desertion.  As the whole of the provisions were under water,
and could not be got at, the survivors had subsisted on raw flesh so long as they had strength
to cut it, or power to swallow it; what made the poor creature tell it, I cannot imagine, if
it were not to give the most vivid picture possible, in her conception, of their loneliness
and desolation, but she said, "no sea--bird even ever came near us."

It were harrowing to repeat the heart--rendering description given by her, of the sickening
of the heart when the first night fell, and still no tidings of the boats; the second sun set--still
the horizon was speckless; the next dreary day wore to an end, and three innocent helpless
children were dead corpses; on the fourth, madness seized on their mothers, and--but I will
not dwell on such horrors.

During these manifold goings and comings I naturally enlarged the circle of my acquaintance
in the island, especially in Kingston, the mercantile capital; and often does my heart glow
within me, when the scenes I have witnessed in that land of fun and fever rise up before me
after the lapse of many years, under the influence of a good fire and a glass of old Madeira.
Take the following sample of Jamaica High Jinks as one of many.  On a certain occasion I had
gone to dine with Mr Isaac Shingle, and extensive American merchant, and a most estimable man,
who considerately sent his gig down to the wherry wharf for me.  At six o'clock I arrived at
my friend's mansion, situated in the upper part of the town, a spacious one--story house, overshadowed
by two fine old trees, and situated back from the street about ten yards; the intervening space
being laid out in a beautiful little garden, raised considerably above the level of the adjoining
thoroughfare, from which it was divided by a low parapet wall, surmounted by a green painted
wooden railing.  There was a flight of six brick steps from the street to the garden, and you
ascended from the latter to the house itself, which was raised on brick pillars a fathom high,
by another stair of eight, broad marble slabs.  The usual verandah, or piazza, ran along the
whole front, beyond which you entered a large and lofty, but very darksome hall, answering
to our European drawing room into which the bedrooms opened on each side.  It did strike me
at first as odd, that the principal room in the house should be a dark dungeon of a place,
with nothing but borrowed lights, until I again recollected that darkness and coolness were
convertible terms within the tropics. Advancing through this room you entered, by a pair of
folding doors, on a very handsome dining room, situated in what I believe is called a back
jamb, a sort of outrigger to the house, fitted all round with movable blinds, or jealousies,
and open like a lantern to all the winds of heaven except the west, in which direction the
main body of the house warded off the sickening beams of the setting sun.  And how sickening
they are, let the weary sentries under the pillars of the Jamaica viceroy's house in Spanish
Town tell, reflected as they were there from the hot brick walls of the palace.

This room again communicated with the back yard, in which the negro houses, kitchen, and other
offices were situated, by a wooden stair of the same elevation as that in front.  Here the
table was laid for dinner, covered with the finest diaper, and snow--white napkins, and silver
wine--coolers, and silver forks, and fine steel, and cut glass, and cool green finger--glasses
with lime leaves floating within, and tall wax lights shaded from the breeze in thin glass
barrels, and an epergne filled with flowers, with a fragrant fresh--gathered lime in each of
the small leaf--like branches, and salt--cellars with red peppers in them, &c. &c. all of which
made the tout ensemble the most captivating imaginable to a hungry man.

I found a large party assembled in the piazza and the dark hall, to whom I was introduced in
due form.  In Jamaica, of all countries I ever was in, it is a most difficult matter for a
stranger to ascertain the real names of the guests at a bachelor dinner like the present, where
all the parties were intimate--there were so many soubriquets amongst them; for instance, a
highly respectable merchant of the place, with some fine young women for daughters, by the
way, from the peculiarity of a prominent front tooth, was generally known as the Grand Duke
of Tuscany; while an equally respectable elderly man, with a slight touch of paralysis in his
head, was christened Old Steady in the West, because he never kept his head still; so, whether
some of the names of the present party were real or fictitious, I really cannot tell.

First, there was Mr Seco, a very neat gentlemanlike little man, perfectly well bred, and full
of French phrases.  Then came Mr Eschylus Stave, a tall, raw--boned, well--informed personage;
a bit of a quiz on occasion, but withal a pleasant fellow.  Mr Isaac Shingle, mine host, a
sallow, sharp, hatchet--faced, small, but warm hearted and kind, as I often experienced during
my sojourn in the west, only sometimes a little peppery and argumentative.  Then came Mr Jacob
Bumble, a sleek fat-- pated Scotchman.  Next I was introduced to Mr Alonzo Smoothpate, a very
handsome fellow, with an uncommon share of natural good--breeding and politeness.  Again I
clapper--clawed, according to the fashion of the country, a violent shake of the paw being
the Jamaica infeftment to acquaintanceship, with Mr Percales, whom I took for a foreign Jew
somehow or other at first, from his uncommon name, until I heard him speak, and perceived he
was an Englishman; indeed, his fresh complexion, very neat person, and gentlemanlike deportment,
when I had time to reflect, would of themselves have disconnected him from all kindred with
the sons of Levi.  Then came a long, dark--complexioned, curly--pated slip of a lad, with white
teeth and high strongly marked features, considerably pitted with small--pox.  He seemed the
great promoter of fun and wickedness in the party, and was familiarly addressed as the Don,
although I believe his real name was Mr Lucifer Longtram.  Then there was Mr Aspen Tremble,
a fresh--looking, pleasant, well informed man, but withal a little nervous, his cheeks quivering
when he spoke like shapes of calf's foot jelly; after him came an exceedingly polite old gentleman,
wearing hair--powder and a queue, ycleped Nicodemus; and a very devil of a little chap, of
the name of Rubiochico, a great ally in wickedness with Master Longtram; the last in this eventful
history being a staid, sedate looking, elderly--young man, of the name of Onyx Steady, an extensive
foreign merchant, with a species of dry caustic readiness about him that was dangerous enough.--We
sat down, Isaac Shingle doing the honours, confronted by Eschylus Stave, and all was right,
and smooth, and pleasant, and in no way different from a party of well bred men in England.

When the second course appeared, I noticed that the blackie, who brought in two nice tender
little ducklings, with the concomitant green peas, both just come in season, was chuckling,
and grinning, and showing his white teeth most vehemently, as he placed both dishes right under
Jacob Bumble's nose.  Shingle and Longtram exchanged looks. I saw there was some mischief toward,
and presently, as if by some preconcerted signal, every body asked for duck, duck, duck.  Bumble,
with whom the dish was a prime favourite, carved away with a most stern countenance, until
he had got half through the second bird, when some unpleasant recollection seemed to come over
him, and his countenance fell; and lying back on his chair, he gave a deep sigh.  But "Mr Bumble,
that breast, if you please thank you,"--"Mr Bumble, that back, if you please," succeeded each
other rapidly, until all that remained of the last of the ducklings was a beautiful little
leg, which, under cover of the following story, Jacob cannily smuggled on to his own plate.

"Why, gentlemen, a most remarkable circumstance happened to me while dressing for dinner. 
You all know I am next door neighbour to our friend Shingle--our premises being only divided
by a brick wall, about eight feet high.  Well, my dressing room window looks out on this wall,
between which and the house, I have my duck pen"

"Your what?" said I.

"My poultry yard--as I like to see the creatures fed myself--and I was particularly admiring
two beautiful ducklings which I had been carefully fattening for a whole week"--(here our friend's
voice shook, and a tear glistened in his eye)--"when first one and then another jumped out
of the little pond, and successively made a grab at something which I could not see, and immediately
began to shake their wings, and struggle with their feet, as if they were dancing, until, as
with one accord--deuce take me!"--(here he almost blubbered aloud)--"if they did not walk up
the brick wall with all the deliberation in the world, merely helping themselves over the top
by a small flaff of their wings; and where they have gone, none of Shingle's people know."

"I'll, trouble you for that leg, Julius," said Longtram, at this juncture, to a servant, who
whipped away the plate from under Bumble's arm, before he could prevent him, who looked after
it as if it had been a pound of his own flesh.  It seemed that Longtram, who had arrived rather
early, had found a fishing--tackle in the piazza, and knowing the localities of Bumble's premises,
as well as his peculiarities, he, by way of adding his quota to the entertainment, baited two
hooks with pieces of raw potatoes, and throwing them over the wall, had, in conjunction with
Julius the black, hooked up the two ducklings out of the pen, to the amazement of Squire Bumble.

By and by, as the evening wore on, I saw the Longtram lad making demonstrations to bring on
a general drink, in which he was nobly seconded by Rubiochico; and, I grieve to say it, I was
no ways loath, nor indeed were any of the company.--There had been a great deal of mirth and
frolic during dinner,--all within proper bounds, however,--but as the night made upon us, we
set more sail--more, as it turned out, than some of us had ballast for--when lo! towards ten
of the clock, up started Mr Eschylus to give us a speech.  His seat was at the bottom of the
table, with the back of his chair close to the door that opened into the yard; and after he
had got his breath out, on I forget what topic; he sat down, and lay back on his balanced chair,
stretching out his long legs with great complacency.  However, they did not prove a sufficient
counterpoise to his very square shoulders, which, obeying the laws of gravitation, destroyed
his equilibrium, and threw him a somersault, when exit Eschylus Stave, esquire, head foremost,
with a formidable rumble tumble and hurry--scurry, down the back steps, his long shanks disappearing
last, and clipping between us, and the bright moon like a pair of flails.

However, there was no damage done; and, after a good laugh, Stave's own being loudest of all,
the Don and Rubiochico righted him, and helped him once more into his chair.

Jacob Bumble now favoured us with a song, that sounded as if he had been barrelled up in a
puncheon, and was cantando through the bunghole; then Rubiochico sang, and the Don sang, and
we all sang and bumpered away; and Mr Seco got on the table, and gave us the newest quadrille
step; and, in fine, we were all becoming dangerously drunk.  Longtram, especially, had become
uproarious beyond all bounds, and, getting up from his chair, he took a short run of a step
or two, and sprang right over the table, whereby he smashed the epergne full of fruit and flowers,
scattering the contents all about like hail, and driving a volley of preserved limes like grapeshot,
in all their syrup and stickiness, slap into my face--a stray one spinning with a sloppy whit
into Jacob Bumble's open mouth as he sang, like a musket--ball into a winter turnip; while
a fine preserved pineapple flew bash on Isaac Shingle's sharp snout, like the bursting of a
shrapnel shell.

"D--n it," hiccuped Shingle, "wont stand this any longer, by JuJu jupiter!  Give over your
practicals, Lucifer.  Confound it, Don, give over--do, now, you mad long legged son of a gun!"--Here
the Don caught Shingle round the waist, and whipping him bodily out of his chair, carried him
kicking and spurring into the hall, now well lit up, and laid him on a sofa, and then returning,
coolly installed himself in his seat.

In a little we heard the squeaking of a pig in the street, and our friend Shingle's voice high
in oath. I sallied forth to see the cause of the uproar, and found our host engaged in single
combat with a drawn sword--stick that sparkled blue and bright in the moonbeam, his antagonist
being a strong porker that he had taken for a town guard, and had hemmed into a corner formed
by the stair and the garden wall, which, on being pressed, made a dash between his spindleshanks,
and fairly capsized him into my arms. I carried him back to his couch again; and, thinking
it was high time to be off, as I saw that Smoothpate, and Steady, and Nicodemus, and the more
composed part of the company, had already absconded, I seized my hat, and made sail in the
direction of the former's house, where I was to sleep, when that devil Longtram made up to me.

"Hillo, my little man of war--heave--to a bit, and take me with you. Why what is that? what
the deuce is that?" We were at this time staggering along under the dark piazza of a long line
of low wooden houses, every now and then thundering against the thin boards or bulkheads that
constituted the side next the street, making, as we could distinctly hear, the inmates start
and snort in the inside, as they turned themselves in their beds.  In the darkest part of the
piazza, there was the figure of a man in the attitude of a telescope levelled on its stand,
with its head, as it were, counter--sunk or morticed into the wooden partition.  Tipsy as we
both were, we stopped in great surprise.

"D--n it, Cringle," said the Don, his philosophy utterly at fault, "the trunk of a man without
a head,--how is this?"

"Why, Mr Longtram," I replied, "this is our friend Mr Smoothpate, or I mistake greatly."

"Let me see," said Longtram,--"if it be him, he used to have a head somewhere, I know.--Let
me see.--Oh, it is him; you are right, my boy; and here is his head after all, and a devil
of a size it has grown to since dinner--time to be sure.--But I know his features bald pate--high
forehead and cheekbones."

Nota Bene. We were still in the piazza, where Smoothpate was unquestionably present in the
body, but the head was within the house, and altogether, as I can avouch, beyond the Don's ken.

"Where?" said I, groping about--"very odd, for deuce take me if I can see his head.--Why, he
has none--a phenomenon--four legs and a tail, but no head, as I am a gentleman--lively enough,
too, he is, don't seem to miss it much." Here poor Smoothpate made a violent walloping in a
vain attempt to disentangle himself.

We could now hear shouts of laughter within, and a voice that I was sure belonged to Mr Smoothpate,
begging to be released from the pillory he had placed himself in by removing a board in the
wooden partition, and sliding it up, and then thrusting his caput from without into the interior
of the house, to the no small amazement of the brown fiddler and his daughter who inhabited
the same, and who had immediately secured their prize by slipping the displaced board down
again, wedging it firmly on the back of his neck, as if he had been fitted for the guillotine,
thus nailing him fast, unless he had bolted, and left his head in pawn.

We now entered, and perceived it was really Don Alonzo's flushed but very handsome countenance
that was grinning at us from where it was fixed, like a large peony rose stuck against the
wall.  After a hearty laugh we relieved him, and being now joined by Percales, who came up
in his gig, with Mr Smoothpate's following in his wake, we embarked for an airing at half--past
one in the morning--Smoothpate and Percales, Longtram and Tom Cringle.  Amongst other exploits,
we broke into a proscribed conventicle of drunken negroes--but I am rather ashamed of this
part of the transaction, and intended to have held my tongue, had Aaron managed his, although
it was notorious as the haunt of all the thieves and slight ladies of the place; here we found
parson Charley, a celebrated black preacher, three parts drunk, extorting, as Mawworm says,
a number of devotees, male and female, all very tipsy, in a most blasphemous fashion, the table
being covered with rummers of punch, and fragments of pies and cold meat; but this did not
render our conduct more excusable, I will acknowledge.  Finally, as a trophy, Percales, who
was a wickeder little chap than I took him for, with Longtram's help, unshipped the bell of
the conventicle from the little belfry, and fastening it below Smoothpate's gig, we dashed
back to Mr Shingle's with it clanging at every jolt.  In our progress the horse took fright,
and ran away, and no wonder.

"Zounds, Don, the weather--rein has parted--what shall we do?" said I.

"Do?" rejoined Lucifer, with drunken gravity--"haul on the other, to be sure--there is one
left, an't there?--so hard a--port, and run him up against that gun at the street corner, will
ye?  That will stop him, or the devil is in it."

Crash--it was done--and over the horse's ears we both flew like skyrockets; but, strange to
tell, although we had wedged the wheel of the ketureen fast as a wreck on a reef, with the
cannon that was stuck into the ground postwise between it and the body, there was no damage
done beyond the springing of the starboard shaft, so, with the assistance of the negro servant,
who had been thrown from his perch behind, by a shock that frightened him out of his wits,
we hove the voiture off again, and arrived in safety at friend Shingle's once more. Here we
found the table set out with devilled turkey, and a variety of high--spiced dishes; and, to
make a long story short, we had another set to, during which, as an interlude, Longtram capsized
Shingle out of the sofa he had again lain down on, in an attempt to jump over it, and broke
his arm; and, being the soberest man of the company, I started off, guided by a negro servant,
for Doctor Greyfriars.  On our return, the first thing that met our eyes was the redoubted
Don himself, lying on his back where he had fallen at his leap, with his head over the step
at the door of the piazza. I thought his neck was broken; and the doctor, considering that
he was the culprit to be carved, forthwith had him carried in, his coat taken off, and was
about striking a phleme into him, when Isaac's voice sounded from the inner apartment, where
he had lain all the while below the sofa like a crushed frog, the party in the background,
who were boosing away, being totally unconscious of his mishap, as they sat at table in the
room beyond, enjoying themselves, impressed apparently with the belief that the whole affair
was a lark.

"Doctor, doctor," shouted he in great pain,--"here, here--it is me that is murdered--that chap
is only dead drunk, but I am really dead, or will be, if you don't help."

At length the arm was set, and Shingle put to bed, and the whole crew dispersed themselves,
each moving off as well as he could towards his own home.

But the cream of the jest was richest next day.  Parson Charley, who, drunk as he had been
overnight, still retained a confused recollection of the parties who had made the irruption,
in the morning applied to Mr Smoothpate to have his bell restored, when the latter told him,
with the utmost gravity, that Mr Onyx Steady was the culprit, who, by the by, had disappeared
from Shingle's before the bell interlude, and, in fact, was wholly ignorant of the transaction.
"Certainly," quoth Smoothpate, with the greatest seriousness, "a most unlikely person, I will
confess, Charley, as he is a grave, respectable man; still, you know, the most demure cats
sometimes steal cream, Charley; so, parson, my good man, Mr Onyx Steady has your bell, and
no one else."

Whereupon, away trudged Charley to Mr Steady's warehouse, pulling off his hat with a formal
salaam, "Good Massa Onyx--sweet Massa Teady--pray give me de bell." Here the sable clerigo
gathered himself up, and leant composedly on his long staff, hat still in hand, and ear turned
towards Mr Steady, awaiting his answer.

"Bell!" ejaculated Steady, in great amazement,--"bell! what bell?"

"Oh, good, sweet Massa Onyx, dear Massa Onyx Teady, every body know you good person--quiet,
wise somebody you is--all person sabe dat," whined Charley; then slipping near our friend,
he whispered to him--"but de best of we lob bit of fon now and dende best of we lef to himshef
sometime."

"Confound the fellow!" quoth Onyx, rather pushed off his balance by such an unlooked--for attack
before his clerks; "get out of my house, sir what the mischief do I know of you or your infernal
bell? I wish the tongue of it was in your stomach--get out, sir, away with you."

Charley could stand this no longer, and losing patience, "D--n me eye, you is de tief, sir--so
give me de bell, Massa Teady, or I sall pull you go before de Mayor, Massa Teady, and you sall
be shame, Massa Teady; and it may be you sall be export to de Bay of Honduras, Massa Teady.
Aha, how you will like dat, Massa Teady? you sall be export may be for break into chapel, during
sarvice, and teal bell--aha, teal bell--who ever yeerie one crime equal to dat!"

"My good man," quoth Onyx, who now felt the absurdity of the affair, "I know nothing of all
this--believe me there is a mistake.  Who sent you here?"

"Massa Smoothpate," roared Charley, "Massa Smoothpate, he who neber tell lie to nobody, Massa
Smoothpate sent me, sir, so de debil if you no give up de bell I sall"

"Mr Smoothpate--oh ho!" sung out Steady, 'I see, I see'--Finally the affair was cleared up,
a little hush--money made him snug, and Charley having got back his instrument, bore no malice,
so he and Steady resumed their former friendly footing--the "statu quo ante bellum."

Another story and I have done.

About a week after this, several of the same party again met at dinner, when my excellent friend
Mr Nicodemus amused us exceedingly by the following story, which, for want of a better title,
I shall relate under the head of:

A Slippery Youth

"We  all know," quoth old Nic, "that house robberies have been very rife of  late, and on peril
even of having the laugh against me, I will  tell you  how  I suffered, no longer than three
nights ago; so, Tom  Cringle, will  you  and  Bang  have  the charity to hold  your  tongues,
and  be instructed?

"Old  Gelid,  Longtram, Steady, and myself, had been eating ratoons,  at the  Fortner's domicile,
and it was about nine in the evening when I got home.   We  had  taken next to no wine, a pint
of Madeira apiece  during dinner,  and six bottles of claret between us afterwards, so I  went
to bed  as  cool as a cucumber, and slept soundly for several hours,  until awakened  by my
old gander--now do be quiet, Cringle--by my old watchman of  a gander, cackling like a hero.
I struck my repeater--half past one so  I  turned  myself, and was once more falling over into
the  arms  of Morpheus, when I thought I saw some dark object flit silently across the open
window that looks into the piazza, between me and the deep blue and as  yet moonless sky. 
This somewhat startled me, but it might have been one  of  the servants.  Still I got up and
looked out, but I  could  see nothing.  It did certainly strike me once or twice, that there
was  some dark object cowering in the deep gloom caused by the shade of the orange tree at
the end of the piazza, but I persuaded myself it was fancy, and once more slipped into my nest.
However, the circumstance had put sleep to  flight.  Half an hour might have passed, and the
deep dark purity of the  eastern  sky  was  rapidly quickening into a  greenish  azure,  the
forerunner  of  the  rising  moon," ("oh, confound  your  poetry,"  said Rubiochico,) "which
was fast swamping the sparkling stars, like a bright river  flowing  over  diamonds, when the
old gander  again  set  up  his gabblement and trumpeted more loudly than before.  'If you
were  not  so tough,  my noisy old cock'--thought I--'next Michaelmas should be your last.'
So  I  now resolutely shut my eyes,  and  tried  to  sleep perforce,  in which usually fruitless
attempt, I was actually  beginning to  succeed,  do you know, when a strong odour of palm oil
came  through the  window,  and  on opening my eyes, I saw by the increasing  light  a naked
negro standing at it, with his head and shoulders in sharp relief against  the  pale broad
disk of the moon, at that moment  just  peering over the dark summit of the Long mountain.

"I rubbed my eyes, and looked again; the dark figure was still there, but as if aware that
some one was on the watch, it gradually sank down, until nothing but the round bullet head
appeared above the window sill. This was trying enough, but I made an effort, and lay still.
The stratagem succeeded; the figure, deceived by my feigned snoring and quietude, slowly rose,
and once more stood erect.  Presently it slipped one foot into the room, and then another,
but so noiselessly that when I saw the black figure standing before me on the floor, I had
some misgivings as to its being really a being of this world.  However, I had small space for
speculation, when it slid past the foot of the bed towards my open bureau--I seized the opportunity--started
up--turned the key of the door--and planted myself right between the thief and the open window.
'Now, you scoundrel, surrender, or I will murder you on the spot.' I had scarcely spoken the
word, when with the speed of light, the fellow threw himself on me--we closed--I fell--when,
clip, he slipped through my fingers like an eel--bolted through the window--cleared the balcony
at a bound, and disappeared.  The thief had stripped himself as naked as he was born, and soaped
his woolly scull, and smeared his whole corpus with palm oil, so that in the struggle I was
charmingly lubricated."

Nicodemus here lay back on his chair, evidently desirous of our considering this the whole
of the story, but he was not to be let off so easily, for presently Longtram, with a wicked
twinkle of his eye, chimed in.

"Ay, and what happened next, old Nic--did nothing follow, eh?"

Nic's countenance assumed an irresolute expression; he saw he was jammed up in the wind, so
at a venture he determined to sham deafness.

"Take wine, Lucifer--a glass of Hermitage?"

"With great pleasure," said his Satanic majesty.  The propitiatory libation, however, did not
work, for no sooner had his glass touched the mahogany again, than he returned to the charge.

"Now, Mr Nicodemus, since you won't, I will tell the company the reason of so nice an old gentleman
wearing Baltimore flour in his hair instead of perfumed Mareschale powder, and none of the
freshest either, let me tell you; why, I have seen three weavels take flight from your august
pate since we sat down to dinner."

Old Nic, seeing he was caught, met the attack with the greatest good humour.

"Why, I will tell the whole truth, Lucifer, if you don't bother." ("The devil thank you," said
Longtram.)--"So you must know," continued Nicodemus, "that I immediately roused the servants,
searched the premises in every direction without success--nothing could be seen; but, at the
suggestion of my valet, I lit a small spirit lamp, and placed it on the table at my bed--side,
on which it pleased him to place my brace of Mantons, loaded with slug, and my naked small
sword, so that, thought I, if the thief ventures back, he shall not slip through my fingers
again so easily.  I do confess that these imposing preparations did appear to me somewhat preposterous,
even at the time, as it was not, to say the least of it, very probable that my slippery gentleman
would return the same night.  However, my servant in his zeal was not to be denied, and I was
not so fit to judge as usual, from having missed my customary quantity of wine after dinner
the previous day; so, seeing all right, I turned in, thus bristling like a porcupine, and slept
soundly until daylight, when I bethought me of getting up. I then rose--slipped on my nightgown--and,"--here
Nicodemus laughed more loudly than ever, "as I am a gentleman, my spirit lamp--naked sword--loaded
pistols--my diamond breast--pin, and all my clothes, even unto my unmentionables, had disappeared;
but what was the cruelest cut of all, my box of Mareschale powder, my patent puff, and all
my pomade divine had also vanished; and true enough, as Lucifer says, it so happened that from
the delay in the arrival of the running ships, there was not an ounce of either powder or pomatum
to be had in the whole town, so I have been driven in my extremity--oh most horrible declension!--to
keep my tail on hog's lard and Baltimore flour ever since."

"Well but"--persisted Lucifer--"who the deuce was the man in the moon? Come, tell us.  And
what has become of the queue you so tenderly nourished, for you sport a crop, Master Nic, now,
I perceive?"

Here Nicodemus was neither to hold nor to bind; he was absolutely suffocating with laughter,
as he shrieked out, with long intervals between.

"Why, the robber was my own favourite body--servant, Crabclaw, after all, and be d--d to him--the
identical man who advised the warlike demonstrations; and as for the pigtail, why, on the very
second night of the flour and grease, it was so cruelly damaged by a rat while I slept, that
I had to amputate the whole affair, stoop and roop, this very morning." And so saying, the
excellent creature fell back in his chair, like to choke from the uproariousness of his mirth,
while the tears streamed down his cheeks and washed channels in the flour, as if he had been
a tattooed Mandingo.

CHAPTER XIX

The Last of the Log. Tom Cringle's Farewell.

"And whether we shall meet again, I know not."

JULIUS CAESAR, Vi. 114.

One fine morning about this time, we had just anchored on our return from a cruise, when I
received, as I was dressing, a letter from the secretary, desiring me instantly to wait on
the Admiral, as I was promoted to the rank of commander, (how I did dance and sing, my eye!)
and appointed to the Lotus--Leaf, of eighteen guns, then refitting at the dockyard, and under
orders for England.

I accordingly, after calling and making my bow, proceeded to the dockyard to enter on my new
command, and I was happy in being able to get Tailtackle and Reefpoint once more removed along
with me.

The gunner of Lotus--Leaf having died, Timotheus got an acting warrant, which I rejoice to
say was ultimately confirmed, and little Reefy, now a commander in the service, weathered it
many a day with me afterwards, both as midshipman and lieutenant.

After seeing every thing in a fair train on board, I applied for a fortnight's leave, which
I got, as the trade which I was to convoy had not yet congregated, nor were they likely to
do so before the expiry of this period.

