"The situation is of the gravest character," he confided to me, "but we must be wary. The day
isn't lost so long as he doesn't appear publicly in the creature's train. For the present we
have only unverified rumour. As a man about town Vane-Basingwell may feel free to consort with
vicious companions and still maintain his proper standing. Deplore it as all right-thinking
people must, under present social conditions he is undoubtedly free to lead what is called
a double life. We can only wait."

Such was the state of the public mind, be it understood, up to the time of the notorious and
scandalous defection of this obsessed creature, an occasion which I cannot recall without shuddering,
and which inspired me to a course that was later to have the most inexplicable and far-reaching
consequences.

Theatrical plays had been numerous with us during the season, with the natural result of many
after-theatre suppers being given by those who attended, among them the North Side leaders,
and frequently the Klondike woman with her following. On several of these occasions, moreover,
the latter brought as supper guests certain representatives of the theatrical profession, both
male and female, she apparently having a wide acquaintance with such persons. That this sort
of thing increased her unpopularity with the North Side set will be understood when I add that
now and then her guests would be of undoubted respectability in their private lives, as theatrical
persons often are, and such as our smartest hostesses would have been only too glad to entertain.

To counteract this effect Belknap-Jackson now broached to me a plan of undoubted merit, which
was nothing less than to hold an afternoon reception at his home in honour of the world's greatest
pianoforte artist, who was presently to give a recital in Red Gap.

"I've not met the chap myself," he began, "but I knew his secretary and travelling companion
quite well in a happier day in Boston. The recital here will be Saturday evening, which means
that they will remain here on Sunday until the evening train East. I shall suggest to my friend
that his employer, to while away the tedium of the Sunday, might care to look in upon me in
the afternoon and meet a few of our best people. Nothing boring, of course. I've no doubt he
will arrange it. I've written him to Portland, where they now are."

"Rather a card that will be," I instantly cried. "Rather better class than entertaining strolling
players." Indeed the merit of the proposal rather overwhelmed me. It would be dignified and
yet spectacular. It would show the Klondike woman that we chose to have contact only with artists
of acknowledged preeminence and that such were quite willing to accept our courtesies. I had
hopes, too, that the Honourable George might be aroused to advantages which he seemed bent
upon casting to the American winds.

A week later Belknap-Jackson joyously informed me that the great artist had consented to accept
his hospitality. There would be light refreshments, with which I was charged. I suggested tea
in the Russian manner, which he applauded.

"And everything dainty in the way of food," he warned me. "Nothing common, nothing heavy. Some
of those tiny lettuce sandwiches, a bit of caviare, macaroons--nothing gross--a decanter of
dry sherry, perhaps, a few of the lightest wafers; things that cultivated persons may trifle
with--things not repugnant to the artist soul."

I promised my profoundest consideration to these matters.

"And it occurs to me," he thoughtfully added, "that this may be a time for Vane-Basingwell
to silence the slurs upon himself that are becoming so common. I shall beg him to meet our
guest at his hotel and escort him to my place. Not bad!"

Again I applauded, resolving that for once the Honourable George would be suitably attired
even if I had to bully him. And so was launched what promised to be Red Gap's most notable
social event of the season. The Honourable George, being consulted, promised after a rather
sulky hesitation to act as the great artist's escort, though he persisted in referring to him
as "that piano Johnny," and betrayed a suspicion that Belknap-Jackson was merely bent upon
getting him to perform without price.

"But no," cried Belknap-Jackson, "I should never think of anything so indelicate as asking
him to play. My own piano will be tightly closed and I dare say removed to another room."

At this the Honourable George professed to wonder why the chap was desired if he wasn't to
perform. "All hair and bad English--silly brutes when they don't play," he declared. In the
end, however, as I have said, he consented to act as he was wished to. Cousin Egbert, who was
present at this interview, took somewhat the same view as the Honourable George, even asserting
that he should not attend the recital.

"He don't sing, he don't dance, he don't recite; just plays the piano. That ain't any kind
of a show for folks to set up a whole evening for," he protested bitterly, and he went on to
mention various theatrical pieces which he had considered worthy, among them I recall being
one entitled "The Two Johns," which he regretted not having witnessed for several years, and
another called "Ben Hur," which was better than all the piano players alive, he declared. But
with the Honourable George enlisted, both Belknap-Jackson and I considered the opinions of
Cousin Egbert to be quite wholly negligible.

Saturday's Recorder, in its advance notice of the recital, announced that the Belknap-Jacksons
of Boston and Red Gap would entertain the artist on the following afternoon at their palatial
home in the Pettengill addition, where a select few of the North Side set had been invited
to meet him. Belknap-Jackson himself was as a man uplifted. He constantly revised and re-revised
his invitation list; he sought me out each day to suggest subtle changes in the very artistic
menu I had prepared for the affair. His last touch was to supplement the decanter of sherry
with a bottle of vodka. About the caviare he worried quite fearfully until it proved upon arrival
to be fresh and of prime quality. My man, the Hobbs boy, had under my instructions pressed
and smarted the Honourable George's suit for afternoon wear. The carriage was engaged. Saturday
night it was tremendously certain that no hitch could occur to mar the affair. We had left
no detail to chance.

The recital itself was quite all that could have been expected, but underneath the enthusiastic
applause there ran even a more intense fervour among those fortunate ones who were to meet
the artist on the morrow.

Belknap-Jackson knew himself to be a hero. He was elaborately cool. He smiled tolerantly at
intervals and undoubtedly applauded with the least hint of languid proprietorship in his manner.
He was heard to speak of the artist by his first name. The Klondike woman and many of her Bohemian
set were prominently among those present and sustained glances of pitying triumph from those
members of the North Side set so soon to be distinguished above her.

The morrow dawned auspiciously, very cloudy with smartish drives of wind and rain. Confined
to the dingy squalor of his hotel, how gladly would the artist, it was felt, seek the refined
cheer of one of our best homes where he would be enlivened by an hour or so of contact with
our most cultivated people. Belknap-Jackson telephoned me with increasing frequency as the
hour drew near, nervously seeming to dread that I would have overlooked some detail of his
refined refreshments, or that I would not have them at his house on time. He telephoned often
to the Honourable George to be assured that the carriage with its escort would be prompt. He
telephoned repeatedly to the driver chap, to impress upon him the importance of his mission.

His guests began to arrive even before I had decked his sideboard with what was, I have no
hesitation in declaring, the most superbly dainty buffet collation that Red Gap had ever beheld.
The atmosphere at once became tense with expectation.

At three o'clock the host announced from the telephone: "Vane-Basingwell has started from the
Floud house." The guests thrilled and hushed the careless chatter of new arrivals. Belknap-Jackson
remained heroically at the telephone, having demanded to be put through to the hotel. He was
flushed with excitement. A score of minutes later he announced with an effort to control his
voice: "They have left the hotel--they are on the way."

The guests stiffened in their seats. Some of them nervously and for no apparent reason exchanged
chairs with others. Some late arrivals bustled in and were immediately awed to the same electric
silence of waiting. Belknap-Jackson placed the sherry decanter where the vodka bottle had been
and the vodka bottle where the sherry decanter had been. "The effect is better," he remarked,
and went to stand where he could view the driveway. The moments passed.

At such crises, which I need not say have been plentiful in my life, I have always known that
I possessed an immense reserve of coolness. Seldom have I ever been so much as slightly flustered.
Now I was calmness itself, and the knowledge brought me no little satisfaction as I noted the
rather painful distraction of our host. The moments passed--long, heavy, silent moments. Our
host ascended trippingly to an upper floor whence he could see farther down the drive. The
guests held themselves in smiling readiness. Our host descended and again took up his post
at a lower window.

The moments passed--stilled, leaden moments. The silence had become intolerable. Our host jiggled
on his feet. Some of the quicker-minded guests made a pretence of little conversational flurries:
"That second movement--oh, exquisitely rendered!... No one has ever read Chopin so divinely....
How his family must idolize him!... They say.... That exquisite concerto!... Hasn't he the
most stunning hair.... Those staccato passages left me actually limp--I'm starting Myrtle in
Tuesday to take of Professor Gluckstein. She wants to take stenography, but I tell her....
Did you think the preludes were just the tiniest bit idealized.... I always say if one has
one's music, and one's books, of course--He must be very, very fond of music!"

Such were the hushed, tentative fragments I caught.

The moments passed. Belknap-Jackson went to the telephone. "What? But they're not here! Very
strange! They should have been here half an hour ago. Send some one--yes, at once." In the
ensuing silence he repaired to the buffet and drank a glass of vodka. Quite distraught he was.

The moments passed. Again several guests exchanged seats with other guests. It seemed to be
a device for relieving the strain. Once more there were scattering efforts at normal talk.
"Myrtle is a strange girl--a creature of moods, I call her. She wanted to act in the moving
pictures until papa bought the car. And she knows every one of the new tango steps, but I tell
her a few lessons in cooking wouldn't--Beryl Mae is just the same puzzling child; one thing
one day, and another thing the next; a mere bundle of nerves, and so sensitive if you say the
least little thing to her ... If we could only get Ling Wong back--this Jap boy is always threatening
to leave if the men don't get up to breakfast on time, or if Gertie makes fudge in his kitchen
of an afternoon ... Our boy sends all his wages to his uncle in China, but I simply can't get
him to say, 'Dinner is served.' He just slides in and says, 'All right, you come!' It's very
annoying, but I always tell the family, 'Remember what a time we had with the Swede----'"

I mean to say, things were becoming rapidly impossible. The moments passed. Belknap-Jackson
again telephoned: "You did send a man after them? Send some one after him, then. Yes, at once!"
He poured himself another peg of the vodka. Silence fell again. The waiting was terrific. We
had endured an hour of it, and but little more was possible to any sensitive human organism.
All at once, as if the very last possible moment of silence had passed, the conversation broke
loudly and generally: "And did you notice that slimpsy thing she wore last night? Indecent,
if you ask me, with not a petticoat under it, I'll be bound!... Always wears shoes twice too
small for her ... What men can see in her ... How they can endure that perpetual smirk!..."
They were at last discussing the Klondike woman, and whatever had befallen our guest of honour
I knew that those present would never regain their first awe of the occasion. It was now unrestrained
gabble.

The second hour passed quickly enough, the latter half of it being enlivened by the buffet
collation which elicited many compliments upon my ingenuity and good taste. Quite almost every
guest partook of a glass of the vodka. They chattered of everything but music, I dare say it
being thought graceful to ignore the afternoon's disaster.

Belknap-Jackson had sunk into a mood of sullen desperation. He drained the vodka bottle. Perhaps
the liquor brought him something of the chill Russian fatalism. He was dignified but sodden,
with a depression that seemed to blow from the bleak Siberian steppes. His wife was already
receiving the adieus of their guests. She was smouldering ominously, uncertain where the blame
lay, but certain there was blame. Criminal blame! I could read as much in her narrowed eyes
as she tried for aplomb with her guests.

My own leave I took unobtrusively. I knew our strangely missing guest was to depart by the
six-two train, and I strolled toward the station. A block away I halted, waiting. It had been
a time of waiting. The moments passed. I heard the whistle of the approaching train. At the
same moment I was startled by the approach of a team that I took to be running away.

I saw it was the carriage of the Pierce chap and that he was driving with the most abandoned
recklessness. His passengers were the Honourable George, Cousin Egbert, and our missing guest.
The great artist as they passed me seemed to feel a vast delight in his wild ride. He was cheering
on the driver. He waved his arms and himself shouted to the maddened horses. The carriage drew
up to the station with the train, and the three descended.

The artist hurriedly shook hands in the warmest manner with his companions, including the Pierce
chap, who had driven them. He beckoned to his secretary, who was waiting with his bags. He
mounted the steps of the coach, and as the train pulled out he waved frantically to the three.
He kissed his hand to them, looking far out as the train gathered momentum. Again and again
he kissed his hand to the hat-waving trio.

It was too much. The strain of the afternoon had told even upon my own iron nerves. I felt
unequal at that moment to the simplest inquiry, and plainly the situation was not one to attack
in haste. I mean to say, it was too pregnant with meaning. I withdrew rapidly from the scene,
feeling the need for rest and silence.

As I walked I meditated profoundly.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

From the innocent lips of Cousin Egbert the following morning there fell a tale of such cold-blooded
depravity that I found myself with difficulty giving it credit. At ten o'clock, while I still
mused pensively over the events of the previous day, he entered the Grill in search of breakfast,
as had lately become his habit. I greeted him with perceptible restraint, not knowing what
guilt might be his, but his manner to me was so unconsciously genial that I at once acquitted
him of any complicity in whatever base doings had been forward.

He took his accustomed seat with a pleasant word to me. I waited.

"Feeling a mite off this morning," he began, "account of a lot of truck I eat yesterday. I
guess I'll just take something kind of dainty. Tell Clarice to cook me up a nice little steak
with plenty of fat on it, and some fried potatoes, and a cup of coffee and a few waffles to
come. The Judge he wouldn't get up yet. He looked kind of mottled and anguished, but I guess
he'll pull around all right. I had the chink take him up about a gallon of strong tea. Say,
listen here, the Judge ain't so awful much of a stayer, is he?"

Burning with curiosity I was to learn what he could tell me of the day before, yet I controlled
myself to the calmest of leisurely questioning in order not to alarm him. It was too plain
that he had no realization of what had occurred. It was always the way with him, I had noticed.
Events the most momentous might culminate furiously about his head, but he never knew that
anything had happened.

"The Honourable George," I began, "was with you yesterday? Perhaps he ate something he shouldn't."

"He did, he did; he done it repeatedly. He et pretty near as much of that sauerkraut and frankfurters
as the piano guy himself did, and that's some tribute, believe me, Bill! Some tribute!"

"The piano guy?" I murmured quite casually.

"And say, listen here, that guy is all right if anybody should ask you. You talk about your
mixers!"

This was a bit puzzling, for of course I had never "talked about my mixers." I shouldn't a
bit know how to go on. I ventured another query.

"Where was it this mixing and that sort of thing took place?"

"Why, up at Mis' Kenner's, where we was having a little party: frankfurters and sauerkraut
and beer. My stars! but that steak looks good. I'm feeling better already." His food was before
him, and he attacked it with no end of spirit.

"Tell me quite all about it," I amiably suggested, and after a moment's hurried devotion to
the steak, he slowed up a bit to talk.

"Well, listen here, now. The Judge says to me when Eddie Pierce comes, 'Sour-dough,' he says,
'look in at Mis' Kenner's this afternoon if you got nothing else on; I fancy it will repay
you.' Just like that. 'Well,' I says, 'all right, Judge, I fancy I will. I fancy I ain't got
anything else on,' I says. 'And I'm always glad to go there,' I says, because no matter what
they're always saying about this here Bohemian stuff, Kate Kenner is one good scout, take it
from me. So in a little while I slicked up some and went on around to her house. Then hitched
outside I seen Eddie Pierce's hack, and I says, 'My lands! that's a funny thing,' I says. 'I
thought the Judge was going to haul this here piano guy out to the Jackson place where he could
while away the tejum, like Jackson said, and now it looks as if they was here. Or mebbe it's
just Eddie himself that has fancied to look in, not having anything else on.'

"Well, so anyway I go up on the stoop and knock, and when I get in the parlour there the piano
guy is and the Judge and Eddie Pierce, too, Eddie helping the Jap around with frankfurters
and sauerkraut and beer and one thing and another.

"Besides them was about a dozen of Mis' Kenner's own particular friends, all of 'em good scouts,
let me tell you, and everybody laughing and gassing back and forth and cutting up and having
a good time all around. Well, so as soon as they seen me, everybody says, 'Oh, here comes Sour-dough--good
old Sour-dough!' and all like that, and they introduced me to the piano guy, who gets up to
shake hands with me and spills his beer off the chair arm on to the wife of Eddie Fosdick in
the Farmers' and Merchants' National, and so I sat down and et with 'em and had a few steins
of beer, and everybody had a good time all around."

The wonderful man appeared to believe that he had told me quite all of interest concerning
this monstrous festivity. He surveyed the mutilated remnant of his steak and said: "I guess
Clarice might as well fry me a few eggs. I'm feeling a lot better." I directed that this be
done, musing upon the dreadful menu he had recited and recalling the exquisite finish of the
collation I myself had prepared. Sausages, to be sure, have their place, and beer as well,
but sauerkraut I have never been able to regard as an at all possible food for persons that
really matter. Germans, to be sure!

Discreetly I renewed my inquiry: "I dare say the Honourable George was in good form?" I suggested.

"Well, he et a lot. Him and the piano guy was bragging which could eat the most sausages."

I was unable to restrain a shudder at the thought of this revolting contest.

"The piano guy beat him out, though. He'd been at the Palace Hotel for three meals and I guess
his appetite was right craving."

"And afterward?"

"Well, it was like Jackson said: this lad wanted to while away the tejum of a Sunday afternoon,
and so he whiled it, that's all. Purty soon Mis' Kenner set down to the piano and sung some
coon songs that tickled him most to death, and then she got to playing ragtime--say, believe
me, Bill, when she starts in on that rag stuff she can make a piano simply stutter itself to death.

"Well, at that the piano guy says it's great stuff, and so he sets down himself to try it,
and he catches on pretty good, I'll say that for him, so we got to dancing while he plays for
us, only he don't remember the tunes good and has to fake a lot. Then he makes Mis' Kenner
play again while he dances with Mis' Fosdick that he spilled the beer on, and after that we
had some more beer and this guy et another plate of kraut and a few sausages, and Mis' Kenner
sings 'The Robert E. Lee' and a couple more good ones, and the guy played some more ragtime
himself, trying to get the tunes right, and then he played some fancy pieces that he'd practised
up on, and we danced some and had a few more beers, with everybody laughing and cutting up
and having a nice home afternoon.

"Well, the piano guy enjoyed himself every minute, if anybody asks you, being lit up like a
main chandelier. They made him feel like he was one of their own folks. You certainly got to
hand it to him for being one little good mixer. Talk about whiling away the tejum! He done
it, all right, all right. He whiled away so much tejum there he darned near missed his train.
Eddie Pierce kept telling him what time it was, only he'd keep asking Mis' Kenner to play just
one more rag, and at last we had to just shoot him into his fur overcoat while he was kissing
all the women on their hands, and we'd have missed the train at that if Eddie hadn't poured
the leather into them skates of his all the way down to the dee-po. He just did make it, and
he told the Judge and Eddie and me that he ain't had such a good time since he left home. I
kind of hated to see him go."

He here attacked the eggs with what seemed to be a freshening of his remarkable appetite. And
as yet, be it noted, I had detected no consciousness on his part that a foul betrayal of confidence
had been committed. I approached the point.

"The Belknap-Jacksons were rather expecting him, you know. My impression was that the Honourable
George had been sent to escort him to the Belknap-Jackson house."

"Well, that's what I thought, too, but I guess the Judge forgot it, or mebbe he thinks the
guy will mix in better with Mis' Kenner's crowd. Anyway, there they was, and it probably didn't
make any difference to the guy himself. He likely thought he could while away the tejum there
as well as he could while it any place, all of them being such good scouts. And the Judge has
certainly got a case on Mis' Kenner, so mebby she asked him to drop in with any friend of his.
She's got him bridle-wise and broke to all gaits." He visibly groped for an illumining phrase.
"He--he just looks at her."

The simple words fell upon my ears with a sickening finality. "He just looks at her." I had
seen him "just look" at the typing-girl and at the Brixton milliner. All too fearfully I divined
their preposterous significance. Beyond question a black infamy had been laid bare, but I made
no effort to convey its magnitude to my guileless informant. As I left him he was mildly bemoaning
his own lack of skill on the pianoforte.

"Darned if I don't wish I'd 'a' took some lessons on the piano myself like that guy done. It
certainly does help to while away the tejum when you got friends in for the afternoon. But
then I was just a hill-billy. Likely I couldn't have learned the notes good."

It was a half-hour later that I was called to the telephone to listen to the anguished accents
of Belknap-Jackson.

"Have you heard it?" he called. I answered that I had.

"The man is a paranoiac. He should be at once confined in an asylum for the criminal insane."

"I shall row him fiercely about it, never fear. I've not seen him yet."

"But the creature should be watched. He may do harm to himself or to some innocent person.
They--they run wild, they kill, they burn--set fire to buildings--that sort of thing. I tell
you, none of us is safe."

"The situation," I answered, "has even more shocking possibilities, but I've an idea I shall
be equal to it. If the worst seems to be imminent I shall adopt extreme measures." I closed
the interview. It was too painful. I wished to summon all my powers of deliberation.

To my amazement who should presently appear among my throng of luncheon patrons but the Honourable
George. I will not say that he slunk in, but there was an unaccustomed diffidence in his bearing.
He did not meet my eye, and it was not difficult to perceive that he had no wish to engage
my notice. As he sought a vacant table I observed that he was spotted quite profusely, and
his luncheon order was of the simplest.

Straight I went to him. He winced a bit, I thought, as he saw me approach, but then he apparently
resolved to brass it out, for he glanced full at me with a terrific assumption of bravado and
at once began to give me beans about my service.

"Your bally tea shop running down, what! Louts for waiters, cloddish louts! Disgraceful, my
word! Slow beggars! Take a year to do you a rasher and a bit of toast, what!"

To this absurd tirade I replied not a word, but stood silently regarding him. I dare say my
gaze was of the most chilling character and steady. He endured it but a moment. His eyes fell,
his bravado vanished, he fumbled with the cutlery. Quite abashed he was.

"Come, your explanation!" I said curtly, divining that the moment was one in which to adopt
a tone with him. He wriggled a bit, crumpling a roll with panic fingers.

"Come, come!" I commanded.

His face brightened, though with an intention most obviously false. He coughed--a cough of
pure deception. Not only were his eyes averted from mine, but they were glassed to an uncanny
degree. The fingers wrought piteously at the now plastic roll.

"My word, the chap was taken bad; had to be seen to, what! Revived, I mean to say. All piano
Johnnies that way--nervous wrecks, what! Spells! Spells, man--spells!"

"Come, come!" I said crisply. The glassed eyes were those of one hypnotized.

"In the carriage--to the hyphen chap's place, to be sure. Fainting spell--weak heart, what!
No stimulants about. Passing house! Perhaps have stimulants--heart tablets, er--beer--things
of that sort. Lead him in. Revive him. Quite well presently, but not well enough to go on.
Couldn't let a piano Johnny die on our hands, what! Inquest, evidence, witnesses--all that
silly rot. Save his life, what! Presence of mind! Kind hearts, what! Humanity! Do as much for
any chap. Not let him die like a dog in the gutter, what! Get no credit, though----" His curiously
mechanical utterance trailed off to be lost in a mere husky murmur. The glassy stare was still
at my wall.

I have in the course of my eventful career had occasion to mark the varying degrees of plausibility
with which men speak untruths, but never, I confidently aver, have I beheld one lie with so
piteous a futility. The art--and I dare say with diplomat chaps and that sort it may properly
be called an art--demands as its very essence that the speaker seem to be himself convinced
of the truth of that which he utters. And the Honourable George in his youth mentioned for
the Foreign Office!

I turned away. The exhibition was quite too indecent. I left him to mince at his meagre fare.
As I glanced his way at odd moments thereafter, he would be muttering feverishly to himself.
I mean to say, he no longer was himself. He presently made his way to the street, looking neither
to right nor left. He had, in truth, the dazed manner of one stupefied by some powerful narcotic.
I wondered pityingly when I should again behold him--if it might be that his poor wits were
bedevilled past mending.

My period of uncertainty was all too brief. Some two hours later, full into the tide of our
afternoon shopping throng, there issued a spectacle that removed any lingering doubt of the
unfortunate man's plight. In the rather smart pony-trap of the Klondike woman, driven by the
person herself, rode the Honourable George. Full in the startled gaze of many of our best people
he advertised his defection from all that makes for a sanely governed stability in our social
organism. He had gone flagrantly over to the Bohemian set.

I could detect that his eyes were still glassy, but his head was erect. He seemed to flaunt
his shame. And the guilty partner of his downfall drove with an affectation of easy carelessness,
yet with a lift of the chin which, though barely perceptible, had all the effect of binding
the prisoner to her chariot wheels; a prisoner, moreover, whom it was plain she meant to parade
to the last ignominious degree. She drove leisurely, and in the little infrequent curt turns
of her head to address her companion she contrived to instill so finished an effect of boredom
that she must have goaded to frenzy any matron of the North Side set who chanced to observe
her, as more than one of them did.

Thrice did she halt along our main thoroughfare for bits of shopping, a mere running into of
shops or to the doors of them where she could issue verbal orders, the while she surveyed her
waiting and drugged captive with a certain half-veiled but good-humoured insolence. At these
moments--for I took pains to overlook the shocking scene--the Honourable George followed her
with eyes no longer glassed; the eyes of helpless infatuation. "He looks at her," Cousin Egbert
had said. He had told it all and told it well. The equipage graced our street upon one paltry
excuse or another for the better part of an hour, the woman being minded that none of us should
longer question her supremacy over the next and eleventh Earl of Brinstead.

Not for another hour did the effects of the sensation die out among tradesmen and the street
crowds. It was like waves that recede but gradually. They talked. They stopped to talk. They
passed on talking. They hissed vivaciously; they rose to exclamations. I mean to say, there
was no end of a gabbling row about it.

There was in my mind no longer any room for hesitation. The quite harshest of extreme measures
must be at once adopted before all was too late. I made my way to the telegraph office. It
was not a time for correspondence by post.

Afterward I had myself put through by telephone to Belknap-Jackson. With his sensitive nature
he had stopped in all day. Although still averse to appearing publicly, he now consented to
meet me at my chambers late that evening.

"The whole town is seething with indignation," he called to me. "It was disgraceful. I shall
come at ten. We rely upon you."

Again I saw that he was concerned solely with his humiliation as a would-be host. Not yet had
he divined that the deluded Honourable George might go to the unspeakable length of a matrimonial
alliance with the woman who had enchained him. And as to his own disaster, he was less than
accurate when he said that the whole town was seething with indignation. The members of the
North Side set, to be sure, were seething furiously, but a flippant element of the baser sort
was quite openly rejoicing. As at the time of that most slanderous minstrel performance, it
was said that the Bohemian set had again, if I have caught the phrase, "put a thing over upon"
the North Side set. Many persons of low taste seemed quite to enjoy the dreadful affair, and
the members of the Bohemian set, naturally, throughout the day had been quite coarsely beside
themselves with glee.

Little they knew, I reflected, what power I could wield nor that I had already set in motion
its deadly springs. Little did the woman dream, flaunting her triumph up and down our main
business thoroughfare, that one who watched her there had but to raise his hand to wrest the
victim from her toils. Little did she now dream that he would stop at no half measures. I mean
to say, she would never think I could bowl her out as easy as buying cockles off a barrow.

At the hour for our conference Belknap-Jackson arrived at my chambers muffled in an ulster
and with a soft hat well over his face. I gathered that he had not wished to be observed.

"I feel that this is a crisis," he began as he gloomily shook my hand. "Where is our boasted
twentieth-century culture if outrages like this are permitted? For the first time I understand
how these Western communities have in the past resorted to mob violence. Public feeling is
already running high against the creature and her unspeakable set."

I met this outburst with the serenity of one who holds the winning cards in his hand, and begged
him to be seated. Thereupon I disclosed to him the weakly, susceptible nature of the Honourable
George, reciting the incidents of the typing-girl and the Brixton milliner. I added that now,
as before, I should not hesitate to preserve the family honour.

"A dreadful thing, indeed," he murmured, "if that adventuress should trap him into a marriage.
Imagine her one day a Countess of Brinstead! But suppose the fellow prove stubborn; suppose
his infatuation dulls all his finer instincts?"

I explained that the Honourable George, while he might upon the spur of the moment commit a
folly, was not to be taken too seriously; that he was, I believed, quite incapable of a grand
passion. I mean to say, he always forgot them after a few days. More like a child staring into
shop-windows he was, rapidly forgetting one desired object in the presence of others. I added
that I had adopted the extremest measures.

Thereupon, perceiving that I had something in my sleeve, as the saying is, my caller besought
me to confide in him. Without a word I handed him a copy of my cable message sent that afternoon
to his lordship:

    "Your immediate presence required to prevent a monstrous
    folly."

He brightened as he read it.

"You actually mean to say----" he began.

"His lordship," I explained, "will at once understand the nature of what is threatened. He
knows, moreover, that I would not alarm him without cause. He will come at once, and the Honourable
George will be told what. His lordship has never failed. He tells him what perfectly, and that's
quite all to it. The poor chap will be saved."

My caller was profoundly stirred. "Coming here--to Red Gap--his lordship the Earl of Brinstead--actually
coming here! My God! This is wonderful!" He paused; he seemed to moisten his dry lips; he began
once more, and now his voice trembled with emotion: "He will need a place to stay; our hotel
is impossible; had you thought----" He glanced at me appealingly.

"I dare say," I replied, "that his lordship will be pleased to have you put him up; you would
do him quite nicely."

"You mean it--seriously? That would be--oh, inexpressible. He would be our house guest! The
Earl of Brinstead! I fancy that would silence a few of these serpent tongues that are wagging
so venomously to-day!"

"But before his coming," I insisted, "there must be no word of his arrival. The Honourable
George would know the meaning of it, and the woman, though I suspect now that she is only making
a show of him, might go on to the bitter end. They must suspect nothing."

"I had merely thought of a brief and dignified notice in our press," he began, quite wistfully,
"but if you think it might defeat our ends----"

"It must wait until he has come."

"Glorious!" he exclaimed. "It will be even more of a blow to them." He began to murmur as if
reading from a journal, "'His lordship the Earl of Brinstead is visiting for a few days'--it
will surely be as much as a few days, perhaps a week or more--'is visiting for a few days the
C. Belknap-Jacksons of Boston and Red Gap.'" He seemed to regard the printed words. "Better
still, 'The C. Belknap-Jacksons of Boston and Red Gap are for a few days entertaining as their
honoured house guest his lordship the Earl of Brinstead----' Yes, that's admirable."

He arose and impulsively clasped my hand. "Ruggles, dear old chap, I shan't know at all how
to repay you. The Bohemian set, such as are possible, will be bound to come over to us. There
will be left of it but one unprincipled woman--and she wretched and an outcast. She has made
me absurd. I shall grind her under my heel. The east room shall be prepared for his lordship;
he shall breakfast there if he wishes. I fancy he'll find us rather more like himself than
he suspects. He shall see that we have ideals that are not half bad."

He wrung my hand again. His eyes were misty with gratitude.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

Three days later came the satisfying answer to my cable message:

    "Damn! Sailing Wednesday.--BRINSTEAD."

Glad I was he had used the cable. In a letter there would doubtless have been still other words
improper to a peer of England.

Belknap-Jackson thereafter bore himself with a dignity quite tremendous even for him. Graciously
aloof, he was as one carrying an inner light. "We hold them in the hollow of our hand," said
he, and both his wife and himself took pains on our own thoroughfare to cut the Honourable
George dead, though I dare say the poor chap never at all noticed it. They spoke of him as
"a remittance man"--the black sheep of a noble family. They mentioned sympathetically the trouble
his vicious ways had been to his brother, the Earl. Indeed, so mysteriously important were
they in allusions of this sort that I was obliged to caution them, lest they let out the truth.
As it was, there ran through the town an undercurrent of puzzled suspicion. It was intimated
that we had something in our sleeves.

