Scientific and Religious Journal.

VOL. I. AUGUST, 1880. NO. 8.

THE IMPORTANCE AND NATURE OF REFORMATION FROM SIN. 3: 1-5.

The Savior once began his instructions with these words, "This day is this Scripture fulfilled."
They seem to be an appropriate introduction to our lesson upon this occasion. What is the religion
of thousands? It is said that the christened took this vow when they were children, and understood
it not; when they became men they understood it about as well as when they were children. But
in all candor, I confess that I never could believe they took this vow; their sponsors took
it upon themselves to make it for them, and usually pledged themselves to see it fulfilled.
What fearful responsibilities are assumed just here. It is too frequently the case that those
very sponsors serve more devoutly, love more affectionately, and confide more heartily in the
profits, honors and pleasures of the world than in the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

Survey the lives of many of these men, of all conditions, and then deny, if you can, that the
profits, honors and pleasures of the world are the gods they worship. Their daily and constant
employment is either a violent pursuit of the vain pomp and glory of the world, or of its power,
riches and profits; or it may be that they are led on by pride, malice or revenge. There are
many such who live but little in advance of pagans in a commonwealth of Christians, and know
but little more of God or of Christ than if they had been brought up in India. A great many
are taught to act over this play in the name of religion, and learned to say, "Our Father who
art in heaven," and "I believe in God the Father Almighty;" but do they live as though they
did believe in earnest that God is their Almighty Father? Do they fear him and trust in him?
Do they love and obey him? Mere pretense, or, as Paul termed it, a guise of godliness, for
such is the meaning of the original term, is so common that we meet with it almost daily. Men
have learned to tamper with the word of God until the world is full of theorists. How many
talk about religion who set aside a great portion of the word of God as worse than useless?
And that which they profess to believe they do not believe with half the simplicity which they
manifest in believing the words of their earthly parents. It has been said, "He who is not
industrious to obtain what he professes to desire does not desire it, and he who is not industrious
to bring about that for which he prays, prays with his tongue only, and not with his heart."
All such have simply a "guise" of godliness, while they deny its power.

A great many people profess to believe the Scriptures are true, and that they present the plain
and only way to infinite and eternal blessedness, and yet they neglect the study of the Scriptures.
How is this? If there was a book revealing a plain and easy way for all men to become rich
and enjoy health and pleasure and this world's happiness, would it not be studied by all men?
And why is it that the Bible is not studied by the masses and regarded more? Why are so many
professors of religion negligent in this matter? May it not be because they prefer all other
business and pleasures before this? If professors of religion throughout christendom heartily
believed the Scriptures even as they profess, they would be more diligently studied, and in
many instances treated with greater respect. The faith of many is undoubtedly very weak. If
the laws of our country provided a plain way of escape from temporal death for the benefit
of the condemned criminal, as plain and pointed as the great commission given to the apostles
of Christ, would any condemned criminal hesitate to obey or treat the stipulations of law as
men are constantly treating the precepts of the gospel of Christ? When a man believes the Bible
contains the facts and truths which concern us infinitely more than all earthly matters, his
care and diligence should be, to some extent, in harmony with his persuasion. At this point
men seem to be most strangely careless and grossly negligent. How few people do, or will, understand
that the terms of salvation are written as with the beams of the sun? Is the trouble a low
degree of faith, approximating unbelief? The shadows are always the longest when the sun is
lowest. Is the sun of righteousness low in your spiritual heavens? Or have you given him the
uppermost seat in your affections? What think you of Christ? Whose son is he?

When I tell you that thousands received the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins,
even before the Holy Spirit was given, and were clean through the words spoken unto them, many
are ready to cry out, "These are hard and strange sayings--who can hear them?" Yet, strange
as it may seem, these facts have been upon record near nineteen hundred years. The word repentance,
when used in the law of Christ, is always equivalent to the use which the ancient martyrs made
of it, viz: "Amend your lives."

Paul summed up the whole matter of his preaching in the sentence, "Repentance towards God,
and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ." In some of the best Latin translations this passage in
Acts 20th is rendered, "Conversion to God;" also in Hebrews, 6th chapter, we read, "And conversion
from dead works." Such is more clear and natural; but if we should read, according to modern
theology, sorrow towards God, and sorrow from dead works, it would sound very unnatural, and
almost ridiculous. This is a grand argument in favor of the reading of the Geneva text, which
reads, "Amend your lives and turn, that your sins may be blotted out." But if heaven may be
gained at an easier and cheaper rate, how is it that we are so frequently and so plainly assured
that without actual newness of life, holiness and sanctification unto obedience, there is no
hope, no possibility of salvation? John the Baptist, preaching repentance, said: "Every tree
that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire." It is not the leaves,
simply, of a profession, nor the blossoms of good purposes and intentions, but the fruit, the
fruit only, that will save us from the fire. "Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit
is hewn down and cast into the fire." They that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with
its affections and lusts. If they have not done this, and so attained fitness of character
to dwell with God, it matters not what their sorrow has been, nor their intentions, they will
not enter the kingdom of God. He does not say they who have done such things shall not be saved,
but just the contrary, for he adds: "Such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified;"
but he teaches the doctrine that those who do such things and do not amend their lives shall
not be excused by any pretense of sorrow and good purposes; they "shall not inherit the kingdom
of God." "In Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but a
new creature"--a creature living by a faith, which worketh by love. It is not simply wishing
you were a new creature; not simply wishing for a working faith; nor sorrowing because you
are not a Christian; but "keeping the commandments of God," that will permit you to enter heaven.

Paul says, "Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord."
And John says, speaking of the Christian's hope, "Every man that hath this hope in him purifieth
himself even as he is pure;" then the impure may flatter themselves, and presume upon the favor
of God without "purifying their souls in obeying the truth," but they are without hope in the
world. And again he says, "Little children let no man deceive you, he that doth righteousness
is righteous, even as he is righteous."

So all the writers and teachers of the New Testament, with one consent, proclaim the necessity
of obeying the commandments of the gospel. What a vain whim it is to think that sorrow and
mere intention without reformation of life will admit you into heaven. This golden dream of
heaven has sent thousands out of this world unpardoned and unsaved.

A great many persons satisfy themselves with a mere confession and acknowledgement of their
sins. They seem to think they have done enough, if to confession of sins they add some sorrow
for it. They think all is well if, when their fit of sinning is past and they are returned
to themselves, the sting remains, breeding some remorse of conscience, some complaints against
their wickedness and folly for having done so, and some intentions to forsake it, though never
carried into effect. There are many persons in the churches of our country who seem to think
the church is a stage, whereon they must play their parts, who make a profession every day
of confessing their sins with humble hearts, and yet, after having spent twenty, thirty or
forty years in this manner, their hearts are as stubborn as ever, and they as impenitent and
disobedient to the gospel of Jesus Christ. If giving thanks to God for the blessing received
at his hands is performed with words only, with simple hosannas, and hallelujahs, and "gloria
patris," and psalms, and hymns, then I presume it is done very efficiently, (?) though our
lives are provoking to his majesty. It is not the office of a friend (?) to bewail a friend
with vain lamentation. To be thankful to God is not to say God be praised, or God be thanked,
but it is to remember what he desires and execute what he commands. A dying Roman once said,
"It is not the office of a friend to bewail a dead friend with vain lamentations, but to remember
what he desires and execute his commands. It is the office of the friends of Christ to remember
his desires and carry out his instructions. If we do so we are thankful, and if we do not our
thankfulness is nothing more than mere talk."

Jesus said to his disciples: "Ye are my friends if ye do what I command you." And again: "If
a man love me he will keep my words; he that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings."

Those who love God love his cause. When that cause prospers they rejoice; when it declines
they are hurt. When clouds and darkness are round about the church it is time to double our
diligence and pray to God for help. Circumstances, over which no human being can have control,
sometimes cause sluggishness in the character of a church. The hearts of God's people are often
deeply affected by witnessing the indifference and carelessness of the people, and still more
affected by a falling off in their numbers. When the godly man ceaseth and the faithful fail
from among the children of men, it is distressing; but such is the lot of man that we are often
called upon to witness the truthfulness of the prophet's statement. All true Christians love
the godly because they are faithful. The term faithful implies truth, sincerity and fidelity.
Christ, our great example, is called the faithful and true witness. The use of the term in
our religion indicates believers in Christ--obedient believers--faithful brethren in Christ.
Col. i: 2. Sometimes it is equivalent to the word true, as in 2d Tim., ii: 2--"Faithful men;"
the fidelity of the persons alluded to had been tried--proven. And again, it means a Christian,
in opposition to an infidel, as in 2d Cor. vi: 15--"What part hath he that believeth with an
infidel?" A good man is faithful in his business transactions; faithful to his profession,
adhering to the principles of the gospel and laboring to be faithful to death; faithful in
the discharge of his duties; faithful in the employment of his talents; faithful in all things
committed to his trust; faithful to his promises; faithful in his friendship. These men fail
and cease by means of death. The fathers, where are they? And the teachers, do they live forever?
The visitations of death are often mysterious to us. Sometimes the most brilliant in intellect
and the most useful in talent, also the most pious and useful in the church, are cut down,
while mere cumberers of the ground remain.

The profession of some is only transient; they soon disappear from the assembly of the saints.
Some improper motive, some peculiar excitement may have moved them, or their goodness of heart
may have left them. They have possibly been stony ground hearers or thorny ground hearers.
The world allures thousands and kills the vitality of their religion.

Judas betrayed his master from the love of worldly gain; and Demas, an acceptable preacher
and companion of Paul, abandoned his profession, "having loved the present world."

Many fail by endeavoring to unite the world and their religion, maintaining a good moral character,
but are destitute of energy in Christianity.

When this spirit gets hold of a man, and he is disposed to secularize his religion, or subordinate
it to his worldly interests, he is sure to fail sooner or later. Some fail by falling into
temptations of various kinds, and disgrace their profession; and some fail through intemperance.
Many fail through the influence of error and the enemies of Christianity. These frequently
beguile the unwary.

There never was a time in our history when unbelief and skepticism was more determined in its
opposition to the Christian religion than at the present. There is an incessant attempt to
instill into the minds of the young principles in opposition to, and destructive of Christianity.
Many have split upon the rocks of infidelity, and stranded upon the quicksands of doubt and
skepticism, in spite of the fact that Christianity presented them an example, which is the
light and life of men--a character without a blot! And this example is the only foundation
upon which to build a moral and pious temple in which the Lord does, and the creature may dwell.

OUR INDEBTEDNESS TO REVELATION--THE TEN ATHEISTS IN COUNCIL--No. II.

BY P.T. RUSSEL.

A rap is heard at the door. It being opened, Christian enters. "Good morning, gentlemen. I
am very glad to find you all here. Since our former interview I have been very anxious to continue
our investigation of the evidence of the existence of God. I presume, as you are 'Free-thinkers'
and lovers of truth, you are by this time ready to give a scientific reason for the existence
of the idea of God, and, as you agree with me that we only obtain ideas through the aid of
the five senses, our only idea of color by the eye, of sound by the ear, etc., I wish to ask
you to account for the idea of God. Will you oblige me?"

Atheists--Certainly. We have consulted on this theme since our last interview, and now declare
it to be the work or nature of the imagination. It is a scientific truth, as you will readily
admit, that imagination can and does get up some singular and unreal forms. We now assume that
the idea of a God is but the thought of an imaginary being.

Christian--True, gentlemen. Fancy, or imagination, does, in active moments, bring for our amusement
some fantastic pictures. Her work, however, is never simple, but always complex. This that
we are in search of is the idea of a simple being--a being that is single, and not duplex.
I will now illustrate the extent of the power of the imagination. Taking a walk through nature's
flower garden, we gather one of every variety, and examining them closely, one by one, we notice
their difference in form, color and size by the eye. Their fragrance we note by the smell.
Thus, by the aid of the senses, we note all their sensible properties. Now, allowing that memory
is perfect, we have in store all the peculiarities of each and every individual flower. Gentlemen
atheists, am I correct in this conclusion?

Atheists--Well, yes.

Christian--Very well; then I'll proceed. Having learned, by what we saw, the art of combining,
we can and will imagine all these single flowers blended in one large conglomerated flower,
containing all the peculiarities of each and every single flower. Now, gentlemen, is not this
all that the imagination can do?

Atheists--It is.

Christian--Very well. Is this a simple or compound idea?

Atheists--It is a compound idea. It is simply the blending of the idea of each single flower.

Christian--And this is all the imagination can do? Then, gentlemen, do you not see that as
the idea of God is the idea of a single person, it would be utterly impossible for imagination
to be its author? It is not a conglomerate idea, but a single one. Now, if there is no God,
we have a clear, definite idea of nothing. How will you account for this? Are you not now unable
to give a reason for your premises? Is it not the truth that fools are wiser in their own conceit
than men who can give a reason?

Atheists--Mr. Christian, we did not think that you would thus call us all fools, and as our
investigation has taken such an unlooked for turn, we must ask time for consultation before
we proceed further.

Christian--Very well. When will you be ready to resume? this I am anxious to know; as you are
"liberalists" and "free-thinkers," you will be equally anxious to reach the truth in the premises?

Atheists--At two P.M.

It is two o'clock, and all are present.

Mr. Reason, who was an atheist, opens the discussion as follows:

"Mr. Christian, we have held a council on the subject under discussion, and our conclusion
is that you are right. There must be, and is, such a being as God. Were this not so, we never
could have had the idea of him. We are now deists. We deny that he has ever imparted knowledge
to man by revelation."

Christian--Gentlemen, do you think your present position is a scientific one?

Deists--We think it is both scientific and invulnerable, and we also think that if you continue
this investigation with us you will find it so. How did you obtain this idea? Have you seen
God? No. Have you heard him speak? No. If we had we could not be honest without being Christians?

Christian--Gentlemen, have you not contraband goods in your warehouse? As your eyes have not
seen, nor your ears heard, nor your powers of observation perceived him, and as you acknowledge
that every one of your ideas entered the mind through the aid of one or another of the five
senses, now, I ask, are you logically any better off than before you found yourselves obliged
to relinquish your atheism? Do you not now, as well as then, occupy unreasonable ground? Having
rather conceded that atheists are fools, and turned deists, are you really any better off?
Can you give a reason for your present infidelity? Out of your own mouths you stand condemned
as unreasonable and foolish. You pretend to venerate reason, while you discard her first principles.
You need not try to evade me at this point by an appeal to nature. Here you can find no aid,
for nature tells us of no first cause. The apple tree, before this window, now so richly laden
with fruit, tells not of its first cause. If you say it came from an apple-seed, and that from
an apple, and that from another tree, another seed, and another tree, and so on, in a circle
you may always go, for nature does not tell you of a first tree as a cause uncaused, nor of
a Creator, a God. She does not go behind herself. Gentlemen, have you any reply? If you have,
I would like to hear it.

Reason timidly says: "Mr. C., in your very severe strictures on the deists, are you not condemning
yourself?

Christian--Yes, your quotation tells the truth; yet in this also you have taken too much for
granted. There stands a clock; it keeps correct time, but does it declare the glory of any one?

Deists--Yes, that of its maker.

Christian--But who was its maker. You say you do not know. That is true, and, for ought you
know, or can learn from its mechanism there might have been several makers connected with its
origin. If you had stood by and seen it made, then you might have told me all about it. In
that which you call the works of nature, neither you, nor I, nor any of our fellows, are instructed
by actual observation consequent upon being present when they were made--we were not standing
by when the heavens were made; so that source of information is closed up. There is now but
one resort left to us--but one reasonable means of information. That is, the maker of all things
must, necessarily, have told man that he created all these things. Then, with David, he could
sing, "The heavens declare the glory of God." Man first learned from God that he was the creator
of all things, for God alone could tell it. Gentlemen, the Christian is the only reasonable
being upon the earth, and the only fearless free-thinker. The atheist, you see, is proved a
fool, and the deist is no better. Think this over, then call again.

Deists--We will. Good evening.

THOMAS PAINE

WAS NOT AN INFIDEL WHEN HE WROTE HIS WORK CALLED COMMON SENSE. (Common Sense, p. 12.)

Mr. Paine, did the God of the Bible approve of the Jewish royalty?

Ans. King they had none, and it was held sinful to acknowledge any being under the title but
Lord of Hosts. (Common Sense, pp. 13 and 14.)

How many Gideons are there among leading infidels whose soul-piety would resist such a temptation
as that? Say, was Thomas Paine an infidel when he wrote that? (Common Sense, p. 15.)

From the foregoing verbatim quotations it will be seen that Thomas Paine was no infidel until
he PARTED WITH "COMMON SENSE," which bears date of February 14, 1776. Common Sense is of noble
worth. We cheerfully concede to Thomas Paine all the honor due him for services rendered in
behalf of our country while he was Thomas Paine the Quaker. He did nothing for our country
after he avowed his infidelity that deserves being mentioned by any intelligent Christian.

A CLUSTER OF THOUGHTS,

GATHERED FROM JENYN'S INTERNAL EVIDENCES, WITH ADDITIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.

When the religion of Christ made its appearance it was entirely new, infinitely above, and
altogether different from any other which had at any time entered into the mind of man. Its
object was new. It was to prepare us with fitness of character, through a state of trial, for
mutual association with the pure and lovely in the kingdom of heaven. This is presented in
all the gospel, as the chief end of the Christian's life. Until Christ, no such reward was
offered to mankind, nor means provided for its attainment.

Many of the philosophers in old times had ideas of a future state, but they were mixed with
a great deal of uncertainty and misgivings.

Ancient legislators endeavored to inculcate the idea of rewards and punishments after death,
to give sanction to their laws. This was the sole end in view, and when their laws were virtuous,
it was a noble, a praiseworthy end. But the religion of Christ is related to the same object,
brings it about; and, also, has a nobler end in view, and that is to prepare us here for a
more noble society among the citizens of the kingdom of God in the great hereafter.

In all the older religions the good of the present was the direct, and the first object, but
in the religion of Christ it is the second. The first great object of the gospel of Christ
is to prepare us for the realities of eternity.

There is a great contrast between adhering to morality from the motive of present profit, in
expectation of future reward, and living such a life as to qualify us for the realization of
future happiness.

The character of those who are governed by these different principles is not the same. On the
first principle, present utility, we may have mere moralists, men practicing simple justice,
temperance and sobriety. On the second, we must add to those graces of moral nature faith in
God, resignation to his will, and habitual piety. The first will make us very good citizens
in a civil government, but will never be sufficient to make us Christians. So the religion
of Christ insists upon purity of heart and benevolence, or charity, because these are essential
to the end proposed.

"That the present existence is one of trial with reference to another state of being, is confirmed
by all that we know in what is termed the course of nature. Probation is the only key that
unfolds to us the designs of God in the history of human affairs, the only clue that guides
us through the pathless wilderness, and the only plan upon which this world could possibly
have been formed, or upon which its history can be explained."

This world was not formed upon a plan of unconditioned happiness, because it is overspread
with miseries. Neither was it formed upon a plan of unconditioned misery, for there are many
joys interspersed throughout the whole. It was not formed for the unconditional existence of
both vice and virtue, for that is no plan at all, the two elements being, as we know, destructive
of each other. By the way, in this very fact we find the grand necessity for the remedial scheme.

The mixture of vice and virtue, of happiness and misery, is a necessary result of a state of
probation, trials and sufferings consequent upon offending or violating the will of heaven.

The doctrine of the religion of Christ, with its ultimate object and its ideas of God and man,
of the present and the future life, and of the relations which these all bear to each other,
was and is wholly unheard of until you come to the teachings of Christ. No other religion ever
drew such pictures of the worthlessness of earthly-mindedness and of living merely for this
present world. And no other ever set out such beautiful, lively and glorious pictures of heavenly-mindedness,
along with the joys of a future world, nor such pictures of victory over death and the grave,
nor of the last judgment, nor of the triumphs of the redeemed in that tremendous day. The personal
character of the great author, Christ, is as new and peculiar to this religion as anything
else that we can possibly name--"He spake as never man spake."

He is the only founder of a religion which is "unconnected with all human policy and government,"
and, as such, should not be prostituted to any mere worldly purposes whatever. Numa, Mohammed,
and even Moses, blended their religious institutions with their civil, and by such means controlled
their adherents. Christ neither exercised nor accepted such power. He rejected every motive
which controlled other leaders, and chose those which others avoided. Power, honor, riches
and pleasure were alike disregarded. He seemed to court poverty, sufferings and death.

Many impostors and enthusiasts have tried to impose upon the world with pretended communications
from the world of spirits--some of them have died rather than recant; but no history is found
to show one who made his own sufferings and death a necessary part of his plan and essential
elements in his mission. This distinguishes the Savior of the world from all mere enthusiasts
and imposters. He declared his death in all its minutia; with a prophet's vision he saw it,
declared it was necessary, and voluntarily endured it; and he was neither a madman nor idiot.
Look at his lessons, his precepts and his wonderful conduct, and then imagine him insane if
you can. Still, if he was not what he pretended to be, he can be viewed in no other light;
and yet under the character of a madman he deserves much attention on account of such sublime
and rational insanity. There is no other person known in the world's history so rationally
and sublimely mad.

In what madman's career can you find such a beautiful lesson as his instructions given upon
the mount. Then shall he answer and say unto them, Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as you
have done it to the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me."

Before the appearance of Christ there existed nothing like the faith of Christ and Christianity
upon the face of the earth. The Jews alone had a few of its types and shadows, but the great
mystery of Christ had been kept hid since the world began. All the Gentile nations were wrapped
up in the very worst idolatry, having little or no connection whatever with morality, except
to corrupt it with the infamous examples of their gods. "They all worshiped a multitude of
gods and demons, whose favor they sought by obscene and ridiculous ceremonies, and whose anger
they tried to appease with the most abominable cruelties." With them, heaven was open only
to legislators and conquerors, the civilizers and destroyers of mankind. This was the summit
of their religion, and even this was limited to a few prodigies of genius and learning, which
was but little regarded and understood by the great masses. One common cloud of ignorance and
superstition involved them. At this time Christ came as a teacher; his appearance was like
a rising sun, dispelling the darkness and blessing the earth with light and heat.

If any man can believe that the son of a carpenter, together with twelve of the meanest and
most illiterate mechanics, unassisted by any superhuman wisdom and power, should be able to
invent and promulgate a system of theology and ethics the most sublime and perfect, which all
such men as Plato, Aristotle and Cicero had overlooked, and that they, by their own wisdom,
repudiated every false virtue, though universally admired, and that they admitted every true
virtue, though despised and ridiculed by all the rest of the world--if any man can believe
that they were impostors for no other purpose than the promulgation of truth, villains for
no purpose but to teach honesty, and martyrs with no prospect of honor or advantage; or that
they, as false witnesses, should have been able, in the course of a few years, to have spread
this religion over the most of the known world, in opposition to the interests, ambition and
prejudices of mankind; that they triumphed over the power of princes, the intrigues of states,
the forces of custom, the blindness of zeal, the influence of priests, the arguments of orators,
and the philosophy of the world, without any assistance from God, he must be in possession
of more faith than is necessary to make him a Christian and continues an unbeliever from mere
credulity. If the credulous infidel, whose convictions are without evidence and against evidence,
should, after all, be in the right, and Christianity prove to be a fable, what harm could ensue
from being a Christian? Are Christian rulers more tyrannical and their Christian subjects more
ungovernable? Are the rich more insolent when Christianized? Are poor Christians most insolent
and disorderly? Does Christianity make worse parents and worse children? Does it make husbands
and wives, friends and neighbors less trustworthy? Does it not make men and women more virtuous
and happy in every situation in life? If Christianity is a fable, it is one the belief of which
retains men and women in a regular and uniform life of virtue, piety and devotion to truth.
It gives support in the hour of distress, of sickness and death.

"If there were a few more Christians in the world it would be very beneficial to themselves
and by no means detrimental to the public."

THE RESURRECTION OF THE CHRIST.

  "He, who gave life to man at first,
  Can restore it when it is lost."

Our Savior claimed to be the Son of God, and put the validity of his claim on this, that he
should die openly by crucifixion, be buried, and rise from the dead upon the third day. Among
all the impostors known in earth's history there is not one instance of a plot like this fact.
A mere plot of this nature would be hard to manage. That the first part of this prophesy was
fulfilled even our enemies admit. It has not been alleged by infidels of any note that the
crucifixion was a fraud, and did not take place, and that Jesus, as a consequence, did not die.

The chief priests seem to have had considerable concern about the prediction of the resurrection.
Why this? Was it because they had discovered in the person of Christ an impostor, a mere cheat?
No; this alone would have caused them to utterly disregard the prediction of his resurrection.
Those priests saw something in the character of Christ which caused them to fear the fulfillment
of his prediction. What other person ever created such a concern about such an event? There
is not a similar case in the world's history. What other dead person was ever known to create
such a feeling as that which moved his enemies to confront him, if possible, in his rising
power. Those priests had, doubtless, witnessed his miracles again and again. It is beyond all
question true that they feared him in his death. If they had seen no wonderful power exerted
during his life they certainly would have feared none after he was dead. The fear of the chief
priests over the Savior's dead body is an insurmountable evidence of the mighty works which
he accomplished during his life. Those priests addressed themselves to the Roman governor,
and requested a guard placed around the tomb; three days and nights would settle the question,
for the prediction would terminate on the third day. Pilate granted the request, and a guard
was set to watch; they sealed the door of the sepulcher, placing the seal of the state upon
the great stone. The object of the seal was, doubtless, for the satisfaction of all parties
concerned in this matter.

It was a precaution against fraud. If the seal upon a door or box is broken we know at once
that it has been meddled with. When Darius thrust Daniel among the lions he put his seal upon
the door of the den, to satisfy himself and his court that no human hand had interfered for
Daniel's delivery. When he came to the den and found his seal unbroken, he was satisfied. A
seal thus used is of the nature of a covenant. If you deliver sealed writings to an individual
his acceptance amounts to a covenant between you that the same shall be delivered just as they
were received. If the seal is broken, it is a manifestation of attempted fraud. There is no
special agreement needed in order to the existence of covenants by seals; it is an agreement
which men are placed under by the laws of nations. The sealing of the sepulcher where the body
of Jesus lay was to impose, by all the solemnities of the Roman state, obligations upon all
the parties interested in the person of Christ. It was a grand effort on the part of the authorities
to prevent any interference with the dead body.

When impostors are known they become odious, and are but little noticed. How was it with Christ?
When the popular sentiment was that he was a prophet the priests and scribes sought his life,
believing that his death would end his cause? When they and the people learned that he was
an impostor (?) they thought him unsafe after he was dead.

The prediction of Christ that he would rise the third day was publicly known throughout Jerusalem;
but why the chief priests should concern themselves so much about it as to take all the steps
to prevent its fulfillment, is a puzzling question with infidels. Was it because they had detected
him as a cheat and an impostor? No, this is an unreasonable conclusion. It must have been a
secret conviction touching his mighty power. The seal was a proper check upon the guards; the
Jews could have no other object in having it placed there. They were not so foolish as to think,
that by this contrivance they would outstrip Providence.

Guards were set to watch, and, doubtless, did their whole duty. But what are sentinels when
the power of Omnipotence is put forth? An angel of the Lord makes his appearance. The keepers
saw him, and fell down like dead men. The angel rolled away the stone, and the conqueror came
forth to live in the hearts of millions, and to live forevermore.

The disciples, receiving power from on high, soon make their appearance in Jerusalem, and boldly
assert the fact of the resurrection. The murderers of the Savior were there. What do the priests
do next? They had bribed the soldiers to tell a lie which was so base that it only needed to
be told in order to be known as a lie. Next, they arrest the apostles; they beat them, they
scourge them, and bid them shut their mouths, and insist that they shall say no more about
this matter. They did not seem to regard them as liars and impostors, else they would doubtless
have charged them with the fraud. They try to assassinate and murder these witnesses of the
resurrection. They prevailed with Herod to put one of them to death; but they never seemed
to think of charging them with stealing the body away. Their orator, Tertullus, could not have
missed such a topic as imposition and fraud if any had been practiced. He did not seem to think
of anything of the sort, but contented himself with the charge of sedition, heresy, and the
profanation of the temple.

Not long after the resurrection the apostles were taken before the council and sanhedrim of
the Children of Israel. The first impulse of the council was to slay them all; but Gamaliel,
one of the council, stood up and related the history of several impostors who perished in former
days, and said: "If this work be of men it will come to nought, but if it be of God ye can
not overthrow it." He advised them to refrain from the men and let time tell the story. The
tree shall be known by its fruits. The council acquiesced; they gave the apostles a whipping
and let them go.

A resurrection is a thing to be ascertained by men's senses. We all know whether a man is dead
by the same means by which we know whether a man is alive. There are those who claim that "a
resurrection could not be proven by any amount of testimony, because of its being contrary
to the course of nature." But this is mere prejudice and ignorance. First: Who can measure
the extent of natural possibilities? Are they generally known? The objection rests upon the
thought that testimony should be respected only in such cases as seem to us possible, or in
the ordinary course of nature. According to this, no amount of evidence could establish the
fact that water freezes and becomes solid in a country where such is not the ordinary course
of nature. Does a man's ability in discerning and his truthfulness in reporting depend upon
the skill or ignorance of those who hear? We know facts that seem to be as much contrary to
the course of nature as anything could possibly be. But, in all candor, I must claim that in
appealing to the settled course of nature, in a case like the one under consideration, the
question is referred not to the laws of evidence or maxims of reason, but to the prejudices
of men and to their mistakes, which are many. Men form a notion of nature from what they see;
so, under different surroundings, their notions about the course of nature will differ. The
objection falls worthless at the feet of the INFINITE ONE. There is no greater difficulty in
accounting for the fact that the dead live again than there is in accounting for the fact that
they did live.

PUBLIC NOTORIETY OF THE SCRIPTURES.

Origen was born in the year one hundred and eighty-five of the Christian dispensation, and
lived sixty-eight years. He gives in his writings five thousand seven hundred and sixty-five
quotations from the New Testament. Tertullian gives eighteen hundred and two quotations from
the New Testament. Clemens, of Alexandria, labored in the year one hundred and ninety-four.
He gives us three hundred and eighty-four quotations from the New Testament. Ireneus lived
in the year one hundred and seventy-eight. He gives us seven hundred and sixty-seven quotations
from the New Testament, making a grand total of eight thousand seven hundred and twenty-three
quotations, given by four ancient writers.

If all the copies of the New Testament in the world were destroyed, the whole, with the exception
of eleven verses, could be reproduced from the writings of men who lived prior to the Nicene
Council. Unbelievers quote from all ancient heathen authors as though they were books of yesterday,
without manifesting the least doubt in reference to their authenticity or authorship. The evidences
necessary to establish genuineness of authorship are ten-fold greater in the case of the New
Testament Scriptures than in the case of the histories of Alexander, Julius Cæsar and Cyrus,
as given by ancient writers.

The notoriety of the New Testament writings during the first centuries is without a parallel
among all ancient writings. Their effect upon society during those centuries can never be explained
in harmony with unbelief. But this is not all that is to be considered. Their notoriety extends
over the centuries between us and the times of the apostles. Such notoriety is the grand support
upon which the New Testament stands. All other ancient writings stand upon the same kind of
evidence, but this kind of evidence is more than ten-fold greater in the support of our religion
than it is in the support of any other ancient documents.

We may obtain some idea of the influence of the New Testament Scriptures during the first centuries
from the statements of Gibbon. He says there were "six millions of Christians in existence
in the year three hundred and thirteen." It is reasonable to allow that there were three millions
in the year one hundred and seventy-five. Under the best emperors of the second century books
were cheap. Thousands of persons engaged in writing histories for a livelihood. It is allowed
that there were as many as fifteen thousand copies of the four gospels in circulation among
the people in the last quarter of the second century. This state of things seems to convey
the idea that it would be hard work to introduce successfully any corruption into the text
after this period of time. It would be too easily detected.

There is also a grand argument in favor of the genuineness of our religion, which is in the
fact that it was in deathly opposition to both Judaism and Paganism, its success being the
destruction of both. If Christianity was an imposition, its success during the first three
centuries of our era is utterly inexplicable.

WHAT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN AND DONE WITHOUT THE BIBLE.

Our ancestors complained of the reign of wickedness; we complain of it and our posterity will
complain of it. I sometimes think we are all a set of complainers and grumblers.

Of ancient pagans it is said: "They worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator."
Of their idols Persius, who was a Roman satirical poet, born A.D. 34, said:

  "O, cares of men! O, world all fraught
   With vanities! O, minds inclined
   Towards earth, all void of heavenly thought!"

Sedulius, an ancient Christian poet, and by nativity a Scotchman, says of the same:

  "Ah! wretched they that worship vanities,
    And consecrate dumb idols in their heart--
   Who their own Maker, God on high, despise,
    And fear the works of their own hands and art!
   What fury, what great madness doth beguile
    Men's minds that man should ugly shapes adore
   Of birds, or bulls, or dragons, or the vile
    Half-dog, half-man, on knees for aid implore."

One of their own poets jests them thus:

  "Even now I was the stock of an old fig tree,
   The workman doubting what I then should be,
   A bench or god, at last a god made me."

The Romans, for a time, were without images for any religious use, but afterwards they received
into their city the idols of all the nations they conquered; and as they became the lords of
the whole earth, they became slaves to the idols of all the world. Seneca says: "The images
of the gods they worship, those they pray unto with bended knees, those they admire and adore,
and contemn the artificers who made them."

The character and condition of their gods was worse than their own. The common opinion touching
their god of gods, Jupiter, was that he was entombed in Crete, and his monument was there to
be seen. Lactantius wittily says: "Tell me, I beseech you, how can the same god be alive in
one place and dead in another; have a temple dedicated to him in one place and a tomb erected
in another?" Callimachus, in his hymn on Jupiter, calls the Cretians liars in this very respect.
He says:

  "The Cretians always lyars are, who raised unto thy name
   A sepulchre, that never dyest, but ever art the same."

Lactantius informs us in book 10, chapter 20, that they gave divine honor to notorious common
prostitutes, as unto goddesses, to Venus, or Faula, to Lapa, the nurse of Romulus, so called
among the shepherds for her common prostitution, and to Flora, who enriched herself by her
crime, and then, by will, made the people of Rome her heir, and, also left a sum of money by
which her birthday was yearly celebrated with games, which, in memory of her, they called Floralia.
They claimed that their great goddess, Juno, was both the wife and sister of Jupiter; and Jupiter,
and the other gods, they held, were no better that adulterers, sodomites, murderers and thieves.
Such was not held in private but published to the world. They were described by their painters
in their tables, by their poets in their verses, and acted by their players upon their stages.
(Lactantius, b. 5, ch. 21.)

As respects the manner in which they worshiped their gods, Alexander, in his Dierum Genialium,
b. 6, ch. 26, insists that the most odious thing in their history was the effusion of human
blood in the service of their gods. This same author says, "This unnatural, barbarous practice
spread itself well nigh over the known world; it was in use among the Trojans, as it seems
from Virgil's lines touching Æneas:

  "Their hands behind their backs he bound whom he had destined
   A sacrifice unto the ghosts, and on whose flames to shed
   Their blood he purposed."--Ænead.

Some ignorant infidels seem at a great loss to understand why the Lord should order the groves
and altars of the heathen destroyed. (Again and again their groves were cut down.) The children
of Israel were to make no offerings in the groves. If infidels will only exercise common sense
inside of the history of the worship of Priapus and Berecynthia, they will cease fretting over
the destruction of those beautiful forests. Those groves were the most corrupt places upon
the earth, places of retirement from the altar into prostitution, carried on as a matter of
worship pleasing to Priapus. Here, on account of becoming modesty, the half can not be told.
The removal of nuisances in our own country is conducted upon the same principles upon which
groves were destroyed by the Israelites.

Lycurgus dedicated an image to laughter, to be worshiped as a god, and this is said to be "the
only law he ever made pertaining to religion." While his great object was to make warriors,
he ordained some things noted for the education of youth. He ordained other laws so much in
favor of lust and all carnality of the worst kind, that it might justly be said he made his
entire commonwealth ludicrous. He instituted wrestlings, dances and other exercises of boys
and girls naked, to be done in public at divers times of the year, in the presence both of
young and old men. Adultery was also approved and permitted by the laws of Lycurgus. Plato
and Aristotle advocated community of women, of goods and possessions, to the end that no man
should have anything peculiar to himself, or know his own children. This was ordained by Plato,
in order to establish in the commonwealth such a perfect unity that no man might be able to
say, that is thine, or this is mine.

Aristotle, in the second book of his "Politiques," sets forth many other detestable things.
Lactantius, in the third of his Divine Institutions, shows that Plato's community of property
and women took away frugality, abstinence, shamefacedness, modesty and justice itself.

Plato, like Lycurgus, ordained that young men should, for the increase of their physical strength
and agility of body, at certain times exercise themselves naked; that girls and servant-maids
should dance naked among the young men; that women in the flower of their youth should dance,
run, wrestle and ride with young men naked as well as they, which, says Plato, "whosoever misliketh
understandeth not how profitable it is for the commonwealth."

The morality of ancient times may be clearly seen in the fact that all manner of debasing things
were brought to the front. How could men be persuaded that adultery should be punished when
they were taught from infancy that it was a virtue among the gods? Lucian gives his experience
thus, "When I was yet a boy, and heard out of Homer and Hesiod of the adulteries, fornications,
rapes and seditions of the gods, truly I thought that those things were very excellent, and
began even then to be greatly affected towards them, for I could not imagine that the gods
themselves would ever have committed adultery if they had not esteemed the same lawful and
good." To all this it may be added that the opinions of the ancient philosophers concerning
virtue, vice, the final happiness, and the state of the spirit after death, were diverse and
contradictory. The Epicurean doctrine was, that sovereign happiness consisted in pleasure.
They granted a God, but denied his Providence; so virtue was without a spur, and vice without
a bridle.

The Stoics also granted a Divine Providence, but they maintained such a fatal necessity that
they blunted the edge of all virtuous efforts and excused themselves in vicious conduct. Both
Stoics and Epicureans doubted the immortality of the human spirit, and thereby opened the way
to all manner of licentiousness.

I am persuaded that eternity alone will fully reveal the consequences of a denial of a future
life and retribution; it is a physical leprosy which removes all the most powerful incentives
to virtue and loosens up the soul to all manner of lustful gratifications.

A man once remarked: "I have lived four years an avowed infidel. I have boasted that I would
live a good man and die an infidel. I have formed the acquaintance of all the leading infidels
of my country, and I am now prepared to candidly confess that I do not believe any man can
keep a good heart without the fear of God. Such is my observation and experience."

THE LATEST EVOLUTIONARY CONFLICT.

THEY FIRST WISH IT TO BE SO, THEN SOON, WITHOUT PROOF, THEY ASSERT THAT IT IS SO!

(From the Cincinnati Gazette, of June 26, 1880.)

"Prof. Huxley is assured that the doctrine of evolution, so far as the animal world is concerned,
is no longer a speculation, but a statement of historical fact, taking its place along side
of those accepted truths which must be taken into account by philosophers of all schools."

This statement was the summing up of an address delivered at the Royal Institution on the 19th
of March. The address was specifically an account of "The Coming of Age of the Origin of Species"--it
being nearly twenty-one years since Darwin's work bearing that name was first published.

The lecturer glanced at the general replacement of the catastrophic theory of geology by the
uniformitarian hypothesis, claimed that many of the most important breaks in the line of the
descent of plants and animals had been filled, noticed the great advance made in the science
of embryology, and held that the amount of our knowledge respecting the mammalia of the Tertiary
epoch had increased fifty-fold since Darwin's work appeared, and in some directions even approaches
completeness. The lecture closed with these words: "Thus when, on the first of October next,
'The Origin of Species' comes of age, the promise of its youth will be amply fulfilled and
we shall be prepared to congratulate the venerated author of the book, not only that the greatness
of his achievement and its enduring influence upon the progress of knowledge have won him a
place beside Harvey, but, still more, that, like Harvey, he has lived long enough to outlast
detraction and opposition, and to see the stone that the builders rejected become the head-stone
of the corner."

This is plain and emphatic speaking, but it has not been suffered to pass unchallenged.

Dr. Charles Elam, a writer who has already more than once measured swords with the school of
naturalists of which Professor Huxley is a foremost champion, has been moved to respond to
this latest utterance. He has contributed to the Contemporary Review a paper entitled "The
Gospel of Evolution," which, whatever may be its conclusiveness, is one of the sharpest attacks
recently sustained by the opposing party. Acknowledging at the start Mr. Darwin's pre-eminence
as a naturalist, and Prof. Huxley's equal accomplishments in the department of biology, he
yet ventures to continue his doubt regarding the evidence of their peculiar doctrines. He first
cites Darwin's admissions that it would be fatal to his theory if any organs existed which
could not have been evolved by minute selective modifications, and his further concession that
"man, as well as every other animal, presents structures which, as far as we can judge, are
not now of any service to him, nor have been so during any former part of his existence.

Having contrasted Darwinism proper with its exaggerations, in the system of Haeckel, who regards
Darwin's admissions of an original creation as contemptible, and recognizes only one force
in the universe--the mechanical, Dr. Elam compares Huxley's statement in his American addresses
that belief which is not based upon evidence is not only illogical but immoral, with his last
assertion that evolution is a fact, doubted only by persons "who have not reached the stage
of emergence from ignorance."

Since this confession was uttered, whatever discoveries may have been made, there has not been
the faintest indication of the development of any new species by artificial selection, the
individuals of which are fertile among themselves and infertile with the parent stock. It may
properly be alleged that there has not been time enough for such a slow process, but it yet
remains as true as ever that there is no direct evidence in nature of what the Darwinians call
favorable variation. It is the unwritten law of nature that one race must die that another
may live, this other, in its turn, subserving the same end. Without this law nature would be
a chaotic impossibility. If natural selection were a real agency, we ought to meet with frequent,
if not constant, evidences of transition, and a slow and gradual, but perceptible improvement
in species, especially marked in those whose generations succeed each other rapidly. But we
see nothing of the kind. But did selection really exist, it would be incompetent to account
for a multitude of structures and functions to which any efficient cause should be applicable,
notably to the earliest rudiments of useful organs. Such organs as the eye and the internal
ear are quite out of reach of any explanation by natural selection. Since the development of
the eyes, due to the simultaneous growth of parts from within and without, the organ itself
would be absolutely useless until it had attained such a degree of development as to admit
of these separate parts meeting, and so the principle of preserving any useful variety would
be quite inapplicable. The same is true of the internal ear.

Dr. Elam next passes in review Haeckel's Geneology of Man from the Lowest Monera to his Present
Station as Lord of Creation. What the Germans call invention of species to fill troublesome
gaps is illustrated in many ways, but we have room only for a single example:

"The vertebrata must be developed from something, and as yet there has been no smallest indication
of anything like a spine or a rudiment of anything that could represent or be converted into
one. It costs our author nothing but a stroke of his pen to invent the 'Chordonia,' and whence
did they come? They were developed from the worms by the formation of a spinal marrow and a
chorda dorsulis. Nothing more--the most trifling modification!--and we are at once provided
with the root and stem of the whole vertebrata divisions. It is scarcely any drawback to this
stroke of genius to say that there is no evidence whatever that such an order of living beings
ever existed; that no one has the least conception of what they were like, or of any of their
attributes. Prof. Huxley's responsibility for this imaginative science is evidenced by his
declaration that the conception of geological time is the only point upon which he fundamentally
and entirely disagrees with Haeckel."

It still remains true that all our positive and direct knowledge as to species contradicts
the evolution hypothesis. Its evidence is purely inferential, and, as Dr. Elam quietly says,
"As a psychological study it is interesting to observe how many things are deemed impossible
to the infinite wisdom and power (which by the terms of the supposition, presided over the
arrangements of our world) which are perfectly clear and comprehensible when considered as
the result of blind chance and the operation of mechanical causes only." Omitting for lack
of space his keen analysis of Huxley's claim of the evidence of evolution from the orchippus
to the modern horse, we follow our author from his array of what is not proved to what is actually
taught by geology. We quote:

"THE SUCCESSION OF FORMS OF LIFE ON OUR GLOBE IS DEMONSTRABLY NOT SUCH AS OUGHT TO BE THE CASE
ON THE THEORY OF EVOLUTION." It was not the small and feeble species or most generalized forms
that first appeared, either among mollusks, fish, reptiles or mammalia. We look in vain now
for the representatives of the gigantic fishes of the Old Red Sandstone. And where are the
mighty reptile tyrants of air, earth and water of the Oolite? * * * These races appeared in
the plenitude of their development and power; and, as their dynasty grew old, it was not that
the race was improved or preserved in consequence, but they dwindled, and were, so to speak,
degraded, as if to make room in the economy of nature for their successors.

Next follows a closely linked argument that will not bear abridgement, showing the physical
improbability that man, a walking animal, was descended from a climbing one, and the deplorable
consequences which obliterate free will and necessitate the secularization of morals, as elaborated
by Prof. Huxley's friend, Mr. Herbert Spencer. This part of the subject has a special interest
to Americans, since the work in which Mr. Spencer's views are inculcated has been introduced
as a manual in one of our oldest colleges, but its reproduction would widely lengthen our article.
It is sufficient to say that Dr. Elam concludes that Mr. Spencer's doctrine, that "actions
are completely right only when, besides being conducive to future happiness, they are immediately
pleasurable," would justify him in concealing any injury done by him to a friend's scientific
apparatus, provided he could attribute it to the weather, or the intrusion of a dog.

Such, in brief, are the points of an essay which, as a whole, is one of the most brilliant
responses that the declarations of leading evolutionists have called forth. Of course, all
its points are not new, but old objections have been skillfully refurbished and new ones brought
into play.

      *      *      *      *      *

To mourn for the dead, is to mourn for the lost casket when you still retain the jewel it held.
The memories of the dead one's virtues are the jewels, and the cold clay but the casket.

AUTHORSHIPS OF THE BOOKS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.

I have a few questions to put to every man who says Christianity is not true. They are these:
If Christianity is not true, where did it come from? How came it into the world? What is its
origin? These questions are not trifling ones. Infidels have given as many different answers
to them as there are days in the week. There is no agreement among them that amounts to a settlement
of the questions among themselves. The Scriptures are ancient. Porphyry, born at Tyre in 233,
wrote a book against them, which was burned by order of Theodosius the Great, in the year 304.
(Zell's Encyclopedia.)

The Emperor Julian, born in the year 331, and Hierocles, who lived in the fourth century, both
wrote against Christianity, against the Scriptures, but did not call in question the existence
of Christ, nor the fact that he wrought miracles.

Celsus, an Epicurean philosopher who lived in the second century, was the author of a work
written against Christianity, entitled "Logos Aleethees," that is, "Word of Truth." To this
work Origen replied. Celsus, in this work, quotes from the gospels by Matthew, Mark, Luke and
John, and does this over and over, and shows that the Christians valued the books very highly;
they suffered death rather than repudiate them.

A TABLE OF THE ANCIENT TIMES OF TRIAL AND OF PEACE.

  DATE--

  A.D. 64 to  68--Persecution under Nero.
        95 to  96--Persecution under Domitian.
       161 to 180--Persecution under Marcus Aurelius. Martyrdom
                     of Polycarp and the martyrs of
                     Lyons.
              164--Justin Martyr was put to death.

Statistics concerning the sufferings of the first Christians show that they were in great earnest.
Eternity alone will reveal the true number of the martyrs. They all suffered and died just
as we would expect, in case they knew the facts of our religion. Twenty-two books of the New
Testament were written before the martyrdom of the Apostles Paul and Peter. Infidels often
boast, in their ignorance, that the books of the gospels were not written by those whose names
they bear.

If Matthew, Mark, Luke and John did not write those books which bear their names, then are
they false in fact? and if so, what did the authors die for? The sufferings of primitive Christians
were great; the persecutions which they endured were outrageous, cruel and inhuman in their
character. Such is the universal verdict of ancient history. Of the persecution under Nero,
Tacitus, a celebrated Roman historian, who was born in the year 56, just twenty-three years
after Pentecost, writes, that Nero "laid upon the Christians the charge of that terrible conflagration
at Rome of which he himself was the cause." He says, "A vast multitude were apprehended. (Juv.
Sat., 1: 155.)

Seneca also refers to their fearful sufferings: "Imagine here a prison, crosses and racks and
the hook, and a stake thrust through the body and coming out at the mouth, and the limbs torn
by chariots pulling adverse ways, and the coat besmeared and interwoven with inflammable materials,
nutriment for fire, and whatever else beside these cruelty has invented." (Seneca's Epistles, 14.)

One of Diocletian's coins commemorates the blotting out of the very name of Christian: "Nomine
Christianorum deleto." But the age of martyrdoms ended with the accession of Constantine to
the Roman empire, and to-day there are more Christians in the world than ever before. Skeptic,
take one long look at the unbelieving, bloody, persecuting hosts, and choose your future associates.

Strauss says: "No man knows who wrote the Gospels." Can he mean that they are anonymous books?
Does he mean that they are not biographies--books containing, in their historic matter, an
account of the authors themselves? Who does not know that those books are and have been called
the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? And who has, in all the past centuries, produced
evidence showing that those are the wrong names. No one. Insane men might say such a thing.
Infidels don't like to say that; they just say you can't prove your religion, nor show that
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John wrote those books. Will any sensible man affirm that they are
the wrong names? How do we judge and believe respecting the authorship of other ancient books?
Why do we believe that Cæsar wrote the Commentaries on the Gallic War? And why do we believe
that Virgil wrote the Æneid? No sane man ever doubted the authorship of those writings. Preoccupancy
during the ages past is considered by infidels themselves a sufficient ground for belief. The
fact that those books exist has certainly been known from the age of the apostles to the present
time, for men quoted extensively from them in the second century. The names they bear were
in the possessive case then, and it is but fair to consider them the true owners.

Why are skeptics and infidels so partial among ancient books? They doubt the authorship of
no ancient books unless they are written in favor of the religion of Christ. Will some wise
one tell us why this strange inconsistency? O, it is an evidence of a wicked heart--that's
all! all!!--ALL THERE IS OF IT!!!

Here are the dates of the books of the New Testaments, along with contemporary landmarks:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
             |            |
BOOKS.       |   AFTER    |  CONTEMPORARY LANDMARKS.
             | PENTECOST. |
-------------+------------+----------------------------------------------
1 Peter      |     16     | Claudius Cæsar ruled from A.D. 41 to 54.
Galatians    |     18     |
1 Thess      |     19     | Romans settled in England between 41 and 54.
2 Thess      |     20     |
1 Cor        |     24     | Nero ruled from 54 to 68.
2 Cor        |     25     |
1 Timothy    |     25     | Paul and Peter were martyred at Rome in or
Romans       |     25     |   about the year 63; 30 years after Pentecost.
James        |     28     |
Matthew      |     28     | Persecution continues under Nero until the
Mark         |     28     |  year 68. The satirist Juvenal, who lived
Philemon     |     29     |  under Nero, and his brother satirist Martial,
Collosians   |     29     |  both allude to the burnings of the Christians
Ephesians    |     29     |  in pitched shirts.
Philippians  |     29     |
Luke         |     30     | Suetoneus, writing of what took place under
Acts         |     30     |  Emperor Claudius, in 53, makes mention of
Hebrews      |     30     |  Christ.
2 Peter      |     34     |
2 Timothy    |     34     | Galba, Otho and Vitelleus rule from 68 to 69.
Titus, about |     34     |
Jude, about  |     34     | Christians have peace from 68 to 95.
Epistles     |            |
 of St. John |            |
  1, 2, 3    |     40     | Jerusalem was destroyed in the year 70.
Revelations  |            |
 of Jesus    |            |
 Christ      |            |
 to John     |     64     | Vespasian rules from 69 to 79.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

CARLYLE'S ESTIMATE OF THE BOOK OF JOB, IN HIS OWN WORDS. (Dr. Cotton's Scrap-Book.)

WHAT I LIVE FOR.

  "I live to hold communion
    With all that is divine,
  To feel there is a union
    Between God's will and mine;
  For the cause that lacks assistance,
    For the future, in the distance,
  For what'er is good and true,
    For all human hearts that bind me,
  For the task by God assigned me,
    And the good that I can do."

THE MOLECULE GOD.

AIR--The Fine Old English Gentleman.

[To be sung at all gatherings of advanced "siolists" and "scientists."]

  We will sing you a grand new song evolved from a 'cute young pate,
  Of a fine old Atom-Molecule of prehistoric date;
  In size infinitesimal, in potencies though great,
  And self-formed for developing at a prodigious rate--
                         Like a fine old Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  In it slept all the forces in our cosmos that run rife,
  To stir creation's giants or its microscopic life;
  Harmonious in discord and co-operant in strife,
  To this small cell committed the world lived with his wife--
                         In this fine old Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  In this autoplastic archetype of protean protein clay
  All the human's space has room for, for whom time makes a day,
  From the sage whose words of wisdom prince or parliament obey,
  To the parrots who but prattle, and the asses who but bray--
                         So full was this Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  All brute life, from lamb to lion, from the serpent to the dove,
  All that pains the sense or pleasure, all the heart can loathe or love;
  All instincts that drag downwards, all desires that upwards move
  Were caged, a "happy family," cheek-by-jowl, and hand-in-glove,
                         In this fine old Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  In it order grew from chaos, light out of darkness shined,
  Design sprang by accident, law's rule from hazard blind;
  The soul-less soul evolving--against, not after kind,
  As the life-less life developed, and the mind-less ripened mind,
                         In this fine old Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  Then bow down mind to matter; from brain fiber, will, withdraw;
  Fall man's heart to cell ascidian, sink man's hand to monkey's paw;
  And bend the knee to Protoplast in philosophic awe--
  Both Creator and created, at once work and source of law.
                         And our Lord be the Atom-Molecule,
                         Of the young world's proto-prime!

  PUNCH.

