"By Jove, I'll be hanged if I think it's a bit better than going up Primrose Hill, twenty times
running: and not near such good going either," observes young JERRYMAN, after we have been
struggling up a precipitous mountain path, occasionally finding ourselves sliding and slipping
backwards in the bed of a disused watercourse, for about two hours and a half.

And really I think young JERRYMAN's view of the matter is not so very far out, after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE RITE, AND ALL WRONG.--The "Service of Reconciliation" in St. Paul's seems to have had the
effect of setting everyone by the ears. Quite a muddle,--a Western Church, and an Easton rite.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCIENCE AND HEART.

    "A Correspondent of 'the Field' records an experiment which
    he made with a wasp. 'Having,' he says, 'severed a wasp in two
    pieces, I found that the head and thorax with the uninjured
    wings retained full vitality.... It tried to fly, but
    evidently lacked the necessary balance through the loss of the
    abdomen. To test the matter further, I cut out an artificial
    tail from a piece of thin cardboard, as nearly following the
    shape of the natural body as possible. To fasten the appendage
    to the wasp, I used a little oxgall ...; gum or more sticky
    substances would not do, as it impedes the use of the wings
    in flight. Presently the operation was complete, and, to my
    surprise, the wasp, after one or two ineffectual efforts, flew
    in rather lopsided fashion to the window. It then buzzed about
    for at least a quarter of an hour, eventually flying out at
    the top ... it was vigorous when it flew away."--Extract from
    an Evening Paper.

  The Benefit of Humour in    Philosophers can always do more
  Philosophy.                 Assisted by a sense of humour:
                              Witness the droll experiment
                              Of this same scientific gent.
                              For he, his frugal breakfast finishing,
                              (The eggs and bacon fast diminishing)
                              Noted how o'er his marmalade
                              A Wasp was buzzing undismayed.
  General Reflection:         We all are apt to be inhosp-
  Attitude of Man towards     Itable to the humble Wasp--
  the Wasp.                   That Ishmael of domestic insects,
                              The terror of the feminine sex!
  The Philosopher shares      And our Philosopher, though cool,
  the prevailing Prejudice.   Was no exception to the rule.
  His Method.                 He let it settle on his plate;
                              He poised a knife above--like Fate.
  The Blow falls.             Next--with a sudden flash it drops
                              Right on that unsuspecting Wopse!
                              Which, unprepared by previous omen,
  A Tragic Meeting.           Awestruck, confronts its own abdomen!
                              And sees its once attached tail-end dance
                              A brisk pas-seul of independence!
                              A pang more bitter than before racks
  Dignified Behaviour of      That righteously indignant thorax,
  the Wopse.                  As proudly (yet with perfect taste)
                              It turns its back upon its waist,
                              And seeks, though life must all begin new,
                              "Business as usual" to continue!
  A Philosopher's Remorse.    The Man of Science felt his heart
                              Prick him with self-accusing smart,
                              To see that ineffectual torso
                              Go fluttering about the floor so;
  The Uses of a Scientific    A wasp for flight is too lopsided.
  Education.