Manetho's History is, however, the chief source of our information as to the antiquity of Egyptian
civilization. He was commissioned to compile this History by Ptolemy Philadelphus, "from the
most authentic temple records and other sources of information," [50] whose infallibility is
taken for granted. He was "eminently qualified for such a task, being," as Mr. Laing will vouch,
[51] "a learned and judicious man, and a priest of Sebbenytus, one of the oldest and most famous
temples." Let us by all means read Manetho's History; but where is it? It is "unfortunately
lost, ... but fragments of it have been preserved in the works of Josephus, Eusebius, Julius
Africanus, and Syncellus.... With the curious want of critical faculty of almost all the Christian
Fathers" [52] (so different from the learned, judicious, upright priests of the sun), "these
extracts, though professing to be quotations from the same book, contain many inconsistencies
and in several instances they have been obviously tampered with, especially by Eusebius, in
order to bring their chronology more in accordance with that of the Old Testament, ... but
there can be no doubt that his original work assigned an antiquity to Menes of over 5500 B.C."
[53] "On the whole, we have to fall back on Manetho as the only authority for anything like
precise dates and connected history."

Manetho, however, needed confirmation against the aspersions of the orthodox, who thought he
might be deficient in critical delicacy, and prone to exaggerate as even later historians had
done. Their casuistic minds also suggested that his list comprised Kings who had ruled different
provinces simultaneously. But this "effugium" was cut off by the witness of contemporary monuments
and manuscripts. "This has now been done to such an extent that it may be fairly said that
Manetho is confirmed, and it is fully established, as a fact acquired by science, that nearly
all his Kings and dynasties are proved by monuments to have existed, and that, successively." [54]

What is needed for the validity of this argument is a concurrence, which could not possibly
be fortuitous, between the clear and undoubted testimony of Manetho and of the monuments. But
first of all, what sort of probability is there left of our possessing anything approximately
like the results of Manetho: and if we had them, of their historical accuracy? Secondly, is
it at all credible that so fragmentary and fortuitous a record as survives in monuments (allowing
again their very dubious historical worth) should just happen to coincide with the surviving
fragments of our patch-work Manetho, king for king and dynasty for dynasty, as Mr. Laing would
have us believe? On the contrary, nothing would throw more suspicion on the interpretation
of these monuments than the assertion of such an improbable coincidence. What, then, is the
force of this argument from Egyptology? If the records from which Manetho compiled were historically
accurate; if he was perfectly competent to understand them; if he was scrupulously honest and
critical; if from the tampered-with fragments in the Christian Fathers we can arrive at a reliable
and accurate knowledge of his results; and if the Bible in the original text--whatever that
may be--undoubtedly asserts that man was not created till 4000 B.C., then according to certain
Egyptologists (Boeck), Menes reigned fifteen hundred years previously, and according to others
(Wilkinson), one thousand years subsequently. Similarly as to the argument from coincidence:
if, as before, we possess Manetho's genuine list intact, and if we have the clear testimony
of the monuments giving a precisely similar record, this coincidence, apart from all independent
value to be given to Manetho or to the monuments, is an effect demanding a cause, for which
the most probable is the objective truth from which both these veracious records have been
copied. But the monuments are not written in plain English, and need a key; and we must be
first assured that Manetho's list has not been used for this purpose. We are told; for example,
[55] that the name "Snefura," deciphered on a tablet found at the copper-mines of Wady Magerah,
is the name of a King of the third dynasty, who reigned about 4000 B.C. Now if there were no
doubt about the reading of this name on the tablet, and if his date and dynasty were as plainly
there recorded, and if all this tallies exactly with equally precise particulars in Manetho's
list, it would indeed be a remarkable coincidence and would imply some common source, whether
record or fact. But if having credited Manetho with the record of such a name and date, one
tortures a hieroglyph into a faintly similar name, and concludes at once that the same name
must be the same person, and that therefore this is the oldest record in the world, the confirmation
is not so striking. That it is so in this instance we do not affirm; but we should need the
assertion of a man of more intellectual sobriety than Mr. Laing to make it worth the trouble
of investigating.

Passing over the confirmation which he draws from the "known rate of the deposit of Nile mud
of about three inches a century," which would give a mild antiquity of twenty-six thousand
years to pottery fished up from borings in the mud, since he admits that "borings are not very
conclusive," we may notice how he deals with evidence from Chaldea on much the same principles.
Here, again, the source had been till lately only "fragments quoted by later writers from the
lost work of Berosus. Berosus was a learned priest of Babylon, who ... wrote in Greek a history
of the country from the most ancient times, compiled from the annals preserved in the temples
and from the oldest traditions." [56] Still this "learned priest," though antecedently as competent
a critic as Manetho, is so portentously mythical in his accounts, that "no historical value
can be attached to them," which must be regretted, since he pushes history back a quarter of
a million years prior to the Deluge, and the Deluge itself to about half a million years ago.
Here, therefore, we are thrown solely upon the independent value of the monumental evidence,
and must drop the argument from coincidence. This evidence, we are told, "is not so conclusive
as in the case of Egypt, where the lists of Manetho, &c.... The date of Sargon I. [57] (3800
B.C.) rests mainly on the authority of Nabonidus, who lived more than three thousand years
later, and may have been mistaken." "The probability of such a remote date is enhanced by the
certainty that a high civilization existed in Egypt as long ago as 5000 B.C." If the evidence
for the antiquity of Chaldee civilization is "less conclusive" than that for Egyptian, and
rests on it for an argument à pari, it cannot be said in any way to strengthen Mr. Laing's
position.

These strictures are directed chiefly to showing Mr. Laing's incapacity for anything like coherent
reasoning in historical matters. Subsequently he uses these most lame and impotent conclusions
as demonstrated certainties, without the faintest qualification, and builds up on them his
refutation of dogmatic Christianity.

However, it is only in his more recent work on Human Origins that he thus comes forward as
an historian, in preparation for which he seems to have devoted himself to the study of cuneiform
and hieroglyphs and mastered the subject thoroughly and exhaustively, before bursting forth
from behind the clouds to flood the world with new-born light.

It is deep down in the bowels of the earth, at the bottom of a geological well, that he has
found not only truth but, also man--among the monsters,

        Dragons of the prime
  Who tare each other in their slime,

and has hauled him up for our inspection. Mr. Laing is before all else an evolutionist, with
an unshaken belief in spontaneous generation. He is quite confident that force and atoms will
explain everything. He seems to mean force, pure and simple, without any intelligent direction;
atoms, ultimate, homogeneous, undifferentiated. No doubt, if the subsequent evolution depends
on the kind and direction of force, or on the nature of the atoms; then there is a remoter
question for physics to determine; but if, as he implies, force and atoms are simple and ultimate,
then evolution is as fortuitous as a sand-storm, or more so. All prior to force and atoms is
"behind the veil." "The material universe is composed of ether, matter, and energy." [58] Ether
is a billion times more elastic than air, "almost infinitely rare," [59] its oscillations must
be at least seven hundred billions per second, "it exerts no gravitating or retarding force;"
in short, Mr. Laing has to confess some uncertainty about his original dogma as to the triple
constituents of the universe, and say "that it may be almost doubted whether such an ether
has any real material existence, and is anything more than a sort of mathematical [why 'mathematical'?]
entity." [60] "It is clear that matter really does consist of minute particles which do not
touch," and even these we must conceive of as "corks as it were floating in an ocean of ether,
causing waves in it by their own proper movement," [61]--an explanation which loses some of
its helpfulness when we remember that the ethereal ocean is only a mathematical entity. "A
cubic centimetre contains 21,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 molecules," "the number of impacts
received by each molecule of air during one second will be 4,700 millions. The distance traversed
between each impact averages 95/1000000 of a millimetre," and so on with lines of ciphers to
overawe the gaping millions with Mr. Laing's minute certainty as to the ultimate constitution
of matter. [62]

As to how atoms came into existence, he can only reply, "Behind the veil, behind the veil;"
for it is at this point at last that he becomes agnostic.[63] The notion of creation is rejected
(after Spencer) as inconceivable, because unimaginable, as though the origination of every
change in the phenomenal world were not just as unimaginable; we see movement in process, and
we see its results, but its inception is unimaginable, and its efficient cause still more so.

The evolution of man is practically taken for granted, the only question being the when.

We have the old argument from embryonic transformism brought forward without any hint that
later investigation tends to show differentiation further and further back, prior to segmentation
and, according to some, in the very protoplasm itself. Nothing could be more inaccurate than
to say "every human being passes through the stage of fish and reptile before arriving at that
of a mammal and finally of man." [64] All that can be truly said is that the embryonic man
is at certain stages not superficially distinguishable from the embryonic fish--quite a different
thing, and no more significant than that the adult man possesses organs and functions in common
with other species of the animal genus.

Mr. Laing's own conclusions from skulls and human remains which he takes to be those of tertiary
man, show man to be as obstinately unlike the "dryopithecus" as ever, in fact, the reputedly
oldest skulls [65] are a decided improvement on the Carnstadt and Neanderthal type. Even then
man seems to have been the same flint-chipping, tool-making, speaking animal as now. So convinced
is he of this essential and ineradicable difference in his heart, that seeing traces of design
in palaeolithic flint flakes, and so forth, he has "not the remotest doubt as to their being
the work of human hands,"--"as impossible to doubt as it would be if we had found clasp-knives
and carpenters adzes." [66] Perhaps Professor Boyd-Dawkins, who credits the "dryopithecus"
with these productions, is a more consistent evolutionist; but at present Mr. Laing is defending
a thesis as to man's antiquity. Yet he has just said that these flint instruments are "only
one step in advance of the rude, natural stone which an intelligent orang or chimpanzee might
pick up to crack a cocoa-nut with." Truly a very significant step, though it be only one. How
hard this is to reconcile with what Mr. Laing ascribes to dogs and ants elsewhere, or with
what he says on page 173, "These higher apes remain creatures of very considerable intelligence....
There is a chimpanzee now in the Zoological Gardens ... which can do all but speak" [either
it speaks, or it does not. It is precisely a case of the "only one step" quoted above. Here
if anywhere a "miss is as good as a mile"], "which understands almost every word the keeper
says to it, and when told to sing will purse out its lips and try to utter connected notes."
[How on earth do we know what it is trying to do?] "In their native state they (apes) form
societies and obey a chief." [The old fallacy of metaphors adverted to in relation to ants
and dogs.] Yet "no animal has ever learned to speak," "no chimpanzee or gorilla has ever been
known to fashion any implement." [67] Their nearest approach to invention is in the building
of huts or nests, in which they "are very inferior to most species of birds, to say nothing
of insects." On the other hand, "as regards tool-making, no human race is known which has not
shown some faculty in this direction." [68] "The difference is a very fundamental one," and
"may be summed up in the words 'arrested development.'" Words, indeed! but what do they mean?
They mean that these animals have not developed the faculties of speech and tool-making, which
would have been most useful to them in the struggle for existence, the reason being that they
did not; and this reason is exalted into a cause or law of "arrested development." Who or what
arrested it? The advantage of the term is that it implies that they were on the point of developing,
that they could "all but speak," were "trying to utter connected notes," were "but one step"
behind flint axes, when some cosmic power said, "Hitherto shalt thou come and no further."

If the dog had organs of speech or an instrument like the hand by which to place himself in
closer relation to the outer world, he would doubtless be on a footing of mental equality with
man, according to Mr. Laing. [69] The elephant's trunk accounts for his superior sagacity,
and the horse suffers by his hoof-enclosed forefoot. [70] "Given a being with man's brain,
man's hand, and erect stature, it is easy to see how intelligence must have been gradually
evolved." [71] Now honestly it seems to us that many animals are as well provided as man is
with a variety of flexible organs of communication with the outward world (for example, the
antennae of insects, the prehensile tails of some monkeys, whose hands are as lithe as man's
and articulated bone for bone and joint for joint). But letting this pass, we thought evolutionists
allowed that structure is determined by function, rather than the converse; and so the confession
that "it is not so easy to see how this difference of the structure arose," [72] surprises
us, coming from Mr. Laing; though why this difference should exist at all, on evolution principles,
is a far greater difficulty. Yet he confesses that "the difference in structure between the
lowest existing race of man and the highest existing ape, [73] is too great to admit of one
being possibly the direct descendant of the other." The ape, then, is not a man whose development
is arrested. "The negro in some respects makes a slight approximation, ... still he is essentially
a man, and separated by a wide gulf from the chimpanzee or gorilla. Even the idiot is ... an
arrested man and, not an ape." [74]

Nearly all these (higher intellectual and moral) faculties appear in a rudimentary state in
animals.... Still there is this wide distinction that even in the highest animals these faculties
remain rudimentary and seem incapable of progress, while even in the lowest races of man they
have reached a much higher level [75] and seem capable of almost unlimited development. [76]
Why does he not seek out the reason of this, or is he satisfied with the words "arrested development"?
If I find a child who can repeat a poem of Tennyson's, am I to be puzzled because it cannot
originate one as good, or go on even to something better? Am I to ascribe to it a rudimentary
but arrested poetic faculty? Surely the same poem proceeding from the lips of the poet and
of the child he has taught, are essentially different effects, though outwardly the same. If
there were a true living germ, it would most certainly develope. If the savage developes through
contact with the civilized man after centuries of degradation, why have not domesticated dogs,
who are, according to Laing, their intellectual and moral equals, developed long ago?

However, as "evolution has become the axiom of science and is admitted by every one who has
the slightest pretensions to be considered a competent authority," [77] it is preposterous
to suppose man an exception, whatever be the difficulties. [78] And so Mr. Laing, assuming
axiomatically that man and the ape have a common ancestor, is interested to make the differences
between them deeply marked, and that, as far back as he can, for thereby "Human Origins" are
pushed back by hundreds of thousands of years. If miocene man is as distinct from the ape as
recent man, the inference is that we are then as far from the source as ever. Hence it is to
geology he looks for the strongest basis of his position. One thought till lately that geology
was a tentative science, hardly credited with the name of science, but Mr. Laing wisely and
boldly classes it among the "exact sciences," whose subject-matter is "flint instruments, incised
bones, and a few rare specimens of human skulls and skeletons, the meaning of which has to
be deciphered by skilled experts." [79] "The conclusions of geology," up to the Silurian period,
"are approximate facts, not theories." [80]

If he means that the only legitimate data of geologists are facts of observation, classified
and recorded, well and good; but to deny that they deal largely in hypotheses, and use them
constantly as the premisses for inferences which are equally hypothetical, is palpably absurd.
First of all we are to "assume the principle of uniformity" which Lyell is said to have established
on an unassailable basis and to have made the fundamental axiom of geological science. He "has
shown conclusively that while causes identical with ... existing causes will, if given sufficient
time, account for all the facts hitherto observed, there is not a single fact which proves
the occurrence of a totally different order of causes." [81] This, however, is (1) limited
to the period of geology which gives record of organic life, and not to the earlier astronomical
period; nor (2) does it exclude changes in temperature, climate, distribution of seas and lands;
nor (3) does it "affirm positively that there may not have been in past ages explosions more
violent than that of Krakatoa; lava-streams more extensive than that of Skaptar-Jokul, and
earthquakes more powerful than that which uplifted five or six hundred miles of the Pacific
coast of South America six or seven feet." [82] Now, seeing that all these cataclysms have
occurred within the brief limits of most recent time, compared with which the period of pretended
uniformity is almost an eternity, what sort of presumption or probability is there that such
occurrences should have been confined to historical times; and is not the presumption all the
other way? Again, it is largely on the supposition of this antecedently unlikely uniformity,
that Mr. Laing argues to the antiquity of life on earth; whereas Lyell's conclusion warrants
nothing of the kind, being simply: that present causes, "given sufficient time," would produce
the observed effects. [83]

Our tests of geologic time are denudation and deposition. We are told "the present rate of
denudation of a continent is known with considerable accuracy from careful measurements of
the quantity of solid matter carried down by rivers." [84] Now it is a considerable tax on
our faith in science to believe that the débris of the Mississippi can be so accurately gauged
as to give anything like approximate value to the result of one foot of continental denudation
in 6,000 years. We cannot of course suppose this to be the result of 6,000 years registered
observations, but an inference from the observations of some comparatively insignificant period;
and we have also to suppose that the very few rivers which have been observed form a sufficient
basis for a conclusion as to all rivers. In fact, a more feebly supported generalization from
more insufficient data it is hard to conceive. To speak of it as "an approximation based on
our knowledge of the time in which similar results on a smaller scale have been produced by
existing natural laws within the historical period," [85] is a very inadequate qualification,
especially when we have just been told that "here, at any rate, we are on comparatively certain
ground, ... these are measurable facts which have been ascertained by competent observers." [86]

Assuming this rate of denudation as certain, and also the estimate of the known sedimentary
strata as 177,000 feet in depth, we are to conclude that the formation took 56,000,000 years.
A mountain mass which ought to answer to certain fault 15,000 high, and therefore is presumed
to have vanished by denudation, points to a term of 90,000,000 years as required for the process.
[87]

