The sepulchral halls of the catacombs do not resemble those of the Egyptians or those of the
Etruscans; they are bare and severe. The Christians knew that a corpse had no bodily wants
and so they did not adorn the tombs. The most important halls are decorated with very simple
ornaments and paintings which almost always represent the same scenes. The most common subjects
are the faithful in prayer, and the Good Shepherd, symbolical of Christ. Some of these halls
were like chapels. In them were interred the bodies of the holy martyrs and the faithful who
wished to lie near them; every year Christians came here to celebrate the mysteries. During
the persecutions of the third century the Christians of Rome often took refuge in these subterranean
chapels to hold their services of worship, or to escape from pursuit. The Christians could
feel safe in this bewildering labyrinth of galleries whose entrance was usually marked by a
pagan tomb.

THE MONKS OF THE THIRD CENTURY

=The Solitaries.=--It was an idea current among Christians, especially in the East, that one
could not become a perfect Christian by remaining in the midst of other men. The faithful man
or woman who thus withdrew from the world to work out his salvation the more surely, was termed
an Anchorite (the man who is set apart), or a Monk (solitary). This custom began in the East
in the middle of the third century. The first anchorites established themselves in the deserts
and the ruins of the district of Thebes in Upper Egypt, which remained the holy land of the
solitaries.

Paul (235-340), the oldest of the monks, lived to his ninetieth year in a grotto near a spring
and a palm-tree which furnished him with food and clothing. The model of the monks was St Anthony.[167]
At the age of twenty he heard read one day the text of the gospel, "If thou wilt be perfect,
sell all thy goods and give to the poor." He was fine looking, noble, and rich, having received
an inheritance from his parents. He sold all his property, distributed it in alms and buried
himself in the desert of Egypt. He first betook himself to an empty tomb, then to the ruins
of a fortress; he was clad in a hair-shirt, had for food only the bread that was brought to
him every six months, fasted, starved himself, prayed day and night. Often sunrise found him
still in prayer. "O sun," cried he, "why hast thou risen and prevented my contemplating the
true light?" He felt himself surrounded by demons, who, under every form, sought to distract
him from his religious thoughts. When he became old and revered by all Egypt, he returned to
Alexandria for a day to preach against the Arian heretics, but soon repaired to the desert
again. They besought him to remain: he replied, "The fishes die on land, the monks waste away
in the city; we return to our mountains like the fish to the water."

Women also became solitaries. Alexandra, one of these, shut herself in an empty tomb and lived
there for ten years without leaving it to see anybody.

=Asceticism.=--These men who had withdrawn to the desert to escape the world thought that everything
that came from the world turned the soul from God and placed it in the peril of losing salvation.
The Christian ought to belong entirely to God; he should forget everything behind him. "Do
you not know," said St. Nilus later, "that it is a trap of Satan to be too much attached to
one's family?" The monk Poemen had withdrawn to the desert with his brothers, and their mother
came to visit them. As they refused to appear, she waited a little until they were going to
the church; but on seeing her, they fled and would not consent to speak to her unless they
were concealed. She asked to see them, but they consoled her by saying, "You will see us in
the other world."

But the world is not the only danger for the monk. Every man carried about with himself an
enemy from whom he could not deliver himself as he had delivered himself from the world--that
is, his own body. The body prevented the soul from rising to God and drew it to worldly pleasures
that came from the devil. And so the solitaries applied themselves to overcoming the body by
refusing to it everything that it loved. They subsisted only on bread and water; many ate but
twice a week, some went to the mountains to cut herbs which they ate raw. They dwelt in grottoes,
ruins, and tombs, lying on the earth or on a mat of rushes. The most zealous of them added
other tortures to mortify, or kill, the body. St. Pachomius for fifteen years slept only in
an erect position, leaning against a wall. Macarius remained six months in a morass, the prey
of mosquitoes "whose stings would have penetrated the hide of a wild boar." The most noted
of these monks was St. Simeon, surnamed Stylites (the man of the column). For forty years he
lived in the desert of Arabia on the summit of a column, exposed to the sun and the rain, compelling
himself to stay in one position for a whole day; the faithful flocked from afar to behold him;
he gave them audience from the top of his column, bidding creditors free their debtors, and
masters liberate their slaves; he even sent reproaches to ministers and counsellors of the
emperor. This form of life was called Asceticism (exercise).

=The Cenobites.=--The solitaries who lived in the same desert drew together and adopted a common
life for the practice of their austerities. About St. Anthony were already assembled many anchorites
who gave him their obedience. St. Pachomius (272-348) in this way assembled 3,000. Their establishment
was at Tabenna, near the first cataract of the Nile. He founded many other similar communities,
either of men or women. In 256 a traveller said he had seen in a single city of Egypt 10,000
monks and 20,000 vowed to a religious life. There were more of them in Syria, in Palestine,
in all the Orient. The monks thus united in communities became Cenobites (people who live in
common). They chose a chief, the abbot (the word signifies in Syriac "father"), and they implicitly
obeyed him. Cassian relates that in one community in Egypt he had seen the abbot before the
whole refectory give a cenobite a violent blow on the head to try his obedience.

The primitive monks renounced all property and family relations; the cenobites surrendered
also their will. On entering the community they engaged to possess nothing, not to marry, and
to obey. "The monks," says St. Basil, "live a spiritual life like the angels." The first union
among the cenobites was the construction of houses in close proximity. Later each community
built a monastery, a great edifice, where each monk had his cell. A Christian compares these
cells "to a hive of bees where each has in his hands the wax of work, in his mouth the honey
of psalms and prayers." These great houses needed a written constitution; this was the Monastic
Rule. St. Pachomius was the first to prepare one. St. Basil wrote another that was adopted
by almost all the monasteries of the Orient.

FOOTNOTES:

[165] The church counted ten persecutions, the first under Nero, the last under Diocletian.

[166] The word is Greek and signifies place of repose.

[167] See his biography in the "Lives of the Fathers of the Desert," by Rufinus.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE LATER EMPIRE

THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE THIRD CENTURY

=Military Anarchy.=--After the reigns of the Antonines the civil wars commenced. There were
in the empire, beside the prætorian guard in Rome, several great armies on the Rhine, on the
Danube, in the East, and in England. Each aimed to make its general emperor. Ordinarily the
rivals fought it out until there was but one left; this one then governed for a few years,
after which he was assassinated,[168] or if, by chance, he could transmit his power to his
son, the soldiers revolted against the son and the war recommenced. The following, for example,
is what occurred in 193. The prætorians had massacred the emperor Pertinax, and the army conceived
the notion of putting up the empire at auction; two purchasers presented themselves, Sulpicius
offering each soldier $1,000 and Didius more than $1,200. The prætorians brought the latter
to the Senate and had him named emperor; later, when he did not pay them, they murdered him.
At the same time the great armies of Britain, Illyricum, and Syria proclaimed each its own
general as emperor and the three rivals marched on Rome. The Illyrian legions arrived first,
and their general Septimius Severus was named emperor by the Senate. Then commenced two sanguinary
wars, the one against the legions of Syria, and the other against the legions of Britain. At
the end of two years the emperor was victorious. It is he who states his policy as follows,
"My son, content the soldiers and you may despise the rest." For a century there was no other
form of government than the will of the soldiers. They killed the emperors who displeased them
and replaced them by their favorites.

Strange emperors, therefore, occupied the throne: Elagabalus, a Syrian priest, who garbed himself
as a woman and had his mother assemble a senate of women; Maximin, a soldier of fortune, a
rough and bloodthirsty giant, who ate, it was said, thirty pounds of food and drank twenty-one
quarts of wine a day. Once there were twenty emperors at the same time, each in a corner of
the empire (260-278). These have been called the Thirty Tyrants.

The Cult of Mithra.--This century of wars is also a century of superstitions. The deities of
the Orient, Isis, Osiris, the Great Mother, have their devotees everywhere. But, more than
all the others, Mithra, a Persian god, becomes the universal god of the empire. Mithra is no
other than the sun. The monuments in his honor that are found in all parts of the empire represent
him slaughtering a bull, with this inscription: "To the unconquerable sun, to the god Mithra."
His cult is complicated, sometimes similar to the Christian worship; there are a baptism, sacred
feasts, an anointing, penances, and chapels. To be admitted to this one must pass through an
initiatory ceremony, through fasting and certain fearful tests.

At the end of the third century the religion of Mithra was the official religion of the empire.
The Invincible God was the god of the emperors; he had his chapels everywhere in the form of
grottoes with altars and bas-reliefs; in Rome, even, he had a magnificent temple erected by
the emperor Aurelian.

=The Taurobolia.=--One of the most urgent needs of this time was reconciliation with the deity;
and so ceremonies of purification were invented.

The most striking of these was the Taurobolia. The devotee, clad in a white robe with ornaments
of gold, takes his place in the bottom of a ditch which is covered by a platform pierced with
holes. A bull is led over this platform, the priest kills him and his blood runs through the
holes of the platform upon the garments, the face, and the hair of the worshipper. It was believed
that this "baptism of blood" purified one of all sins. He who had received it was born to a
new life; he came forth from the ditch hideous to look upon, but happy and envied.

=Confusion of Religions.=--In the century that preceded the victory of Christianity, all religions
fell into confusion. The sun was adored at once under many names (Sol, Helios, Baal, Elagabal,
and Mithra). All the cults imitated one another and sometimes copied Christian forms. Even
the life of Christ was copied. The Asiatic philosopher, Apollonius of Tyana, who lived in the
first century (3-96), became in legend a kind of prophet, son of a god, who went about surrounded
by his disciples, expelling demons, curing sicknesses, raising the dead. He had come, it was
said, to reform the doctrine of Pythagoras and Plato. In the third century an empress had the
life of Apollonius of Tyana written, to be, as it were, a Pythagorean gospel opposed to the
gospel of Christ. The most remarkable example of this confusion in religion was given by Alexander
Severus, a devout emperor, mild and conscientious: he had in his palace a chapel where he adored
the benefactors of humanity--Abraham, Orpheus, Jesus, and Apollonius of Tyana.

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LATER EMPIRE

=Reforms of Diocletian and Constantine.=--After a century of civil wars emperors were found
who were able to stop the anarchy. They were men of the people, rude and active, soldiers of
fortune rising from one grade to another to become generals-in-chief, and then emperors. Almost
all arose in the semi-barbarous provinces of the Danube and of Illyria; some in their infancy
had been shepherds or peasants. They had the simple manners of the old Roman generals. When
the envoys of the king of Persia asked to see the emperor Probus, they found a bald old man
clad in a linen cassock, lying on the ground, who ate peas and bacon. It was the story of Curius
Dentatus repeated after five centuries.

Severe with their soldiers, these emperors reëstablished discipline in the army, and then order
in the empire. But a change had become necessary. A single man was no longer adequate to the
government and defence of this immense territory; and so from this time each emperor took from
among his relatives or his friends two or three collaborators, each charged with a part of
the empire. Usually their title was that of Cæsar, but sometimes there were two equal emperors,
and both had the title of Augustus. When the emperor died, one of the Cæsars succeeded him;
it was no longer possible for the army to create emperors. The provinces were too great, and
Diocletian divided them. The prætorians of Rome being dangerous, Diocletian replaced them with
two legions. The Occident was in ruins and depopulated and hence the Orient had become the
important part of the empire; Diocletian, therefore, abandoned Rome and established his capital
at Nicomedia in Asia Minor.[169] Constantine did more and founded a new Rome in the East--Constantinople.

=Constantinople.=--On a promontory where Europe is separated from Asia only by the narrow channel
of the Bosporus, in a country of vineyards and rich harvests, under a beautiful sky, Greek
colonists had founded the town of Byzantium. The hills of the vicinity made the place easily
defensible; its port, the Golden Horn, one of the best in the world, could shelter 1,200 ships,
and a chain of 820 feet in length was all that was necessary to exclude a hostile fleet. This
was the site of Constantine's new city, Constantinople (the city of Constantine).

Around the city were strong walls; two public squares surrounded with porticos were constructed;
a palace was erected, a circus, theatres, aqueducts, baths, temples, and a Christian church.
To ornament his city Constantine transferred from other cities the most celebrated statues
and bas-reliefs. To furnish it with population he forced the people of the neighboring towns
to remove to it, and offered rewards and honors to the great families who would come hither
to make their home. He established, as in Rome, distributions of grain, of wine, of oil, and
provided a continuous round of shows. This was one of those rapid transformations, almost fantastic,
in which the Orient delights. The task began the 4th of November, 326; on the 11th of May,
330, the city was dedicated. But it was a permanent creation. For ten centuries Constantinople
resisted invasions, preserving always in the ruins of the empire its rank of capital. Today
it is still the first city of the East.

=The Palace.=--The emperors who dwelt in the East[170] adopted the customs of the Orient, wearing
delicate garments of silk and gold and for a head-dress a diadem of pearls. They secluded themselves
in the depths of their palace where they sat on a throne of gold, surrounded by their ministers,
separated from the world by a crowd of courtiers, servants, functionaries and military guards.
One must prostrate one's self before them with face to the earth in token of adoration; they
were called Lord and Majesty; they were treated as gods. Everything that touched their person
was sacred, and so men spoke of the sacred palace, the sacred bed-chamber, the sacred Council
of State, even the sacred treasury.

The régime of this period has been termed that of the Later Empire as distinguished from that
of the three preceding centuries, which we call the Early Empire.

The life of an emperor of the Early Empire (from the first to the third century) was still
that of a magistrate and a general; the palace of an emperor of the Later Empire became similar
to the court of the Persian king.

=The Officials.=--The officials often became very numerous. Diocletian found the provinces
too large and so made several divisions of them. In Gaul, for example, Lugdunensis (the province
about Lyons) was partitioned into four, Aquitaine into three. In place of forty-six governors
there were from this time 117.[171]

At the same time the duties of the officials were divided. Besides the governors and the deputies
in the provinces there were in the border provinces military commanders--the dukes and the
counts. The emperor had about him a small picked force to guard the palace, body-guards, chamberlains,
assistants, domestics, a council of state, bailiffs, messengers, and a whole body of secretaries
organized in four bureaus.

All these officials did not now receive their orders directly from the emperor; they communicated
with him only through their superior officers. The governors were subordinate to the two prætorian
prefects, the officials of public works to the two prefects of the city, the collectors of
taxes to the Count of the Sacred Largesses, the deputies to the Count of the Domains, all the
officers of the palace to the Master of the Offices, the domestics of the court to the Chamberlain.
These heads of departments had the character of ministers.

This system is not very difficult for us to comprehend. We are accustomed to see officials,
judges, generals, collectors, and engineers, organized in distinct departments, each with his
special duty, and subordinated to the commands of a chief of the service. We even have more
ministers than there were in Constantinople; but this administrative machine which has become
so familiar to us because we have been acquainted with it from our infancy, is none the less
complicated and unnatural. It is the Later Empire that gave us the first model of this; the
Byzantine empire preserved it and since that time all absolute governments have been forced
to imitate it because it has made the work of government easier for those who have it to do.

=Society in the Later Empire.=--The Later Empire is a decisive moment in the history of civilization.
The absolute power of the Roman magistrate is united to the pompous ceremonial of the eastern
kings to create a power unknown before in history. This new imperial majesty crushes everything
beneath it; the inhabitants of the empire cease to be citizens and from the fourth century
are called in Latin "subjects" and in Greek "slaves." In reality all are slaves of the emperor,
but there are different grades of servitude. There are various degrees of nobility which the
master confers on them and which they transmit to their posterity. The following is the series:[172]

  1. The Nobilissimi (the very noble); these are the imperial
  family;

  2. The Illustres (the notable)--the chief ministers of
  departments;

  3. The Spectabiles (the eminent)--the high dignitaries;

  4. The Clarissimi (most renowned)--the great officials, also
  sometimes called senators;

  5. The Perfectissimi (very perfect).[173]

Every important man has his rank, his title, and his functions.[174] The only men who are of
consequence are the courtiers and officials; it is the régime of titles and of etiquette. A
clearer instance has never been given of the issue of absolute power united with the mania
for titles and with the purpose to regulate everything. The Later Empire exhibits the completed
type of a society reduced to a machine and of a government absorbed by a court. It realized
the ideal that is proposed today by the partisans of absolute power; and for a long time the
friends of liberty must fight against the traditions which the Later Empire has left to us.

THE CHURCH AND THE STATE

=Triumph of Christianity.=--During the first two centuries of our era the Christians occupied
but a small place in the empire. Almost all of them were of the lower classes, workmen, freedmen,
slaves, who lived obscure lives in the multitude of the great cities. For a long time the aristocracy
ignored the Christians; even in the second century Suetonius in his "Lives of the Twelve Cæsars"
speaks of a certain Chrestus who agitated the populace of Rome. When the religion first concerned
the world of the rich and cultivated people, they were interested simply to deride it as one
only for the poor and ignorant. It was precisely because it addressed the poor of this world
in providing a compensation in the life to come that Christianity made so many proselytes.
Persecution, far from suppressing it, gave it more force. "The blood of the martyrs," said
the faithful, "is the seed of the church." During the whole of the third century conversions
continued, not only among the poor, but among the aristocracy as well. At the first of the
fourth century all the East had become Christian. Helena, the mother of Constantine, was a
Christian and has been canonized by the church. When Constantine marched against his rival,
he took for his ensign a standard (the labarum), which bore the cross and the monogram of Christ.
His victory was the victory of the Christians. He allowed them now to perform their religious
rites freely (by the edict of 313), and later he favored them openly. Yet he did not break
with the ancient religion: while he presided at the great assembly of the Christian bishops,
he continued to hold the title of Pontifex Maximus; he carried in his helmet a nail of the
true cross and on his coins he still had the sun-god represented. In his city of Constantinople
he had a Christian church built, but also a temple to Victory. For a half-century it was difficult
to know what was the official religion of the empire.

=Organization of the Church.=--The Christians even under persecution had never dreamed of overthrowing
the empire. As soon as persecution ceased, the bishops became the allies of the emperors. Then
the Christian church was organized definitively, and it was organized on the model of the Later
Empire, in the form that it preserves to this day. Each city had a bishop who resided in the
city proper and governed the people of the territory; this territory subject to the bishop
was termed a Diocese. In any country in the Later Empire, there were as many bishops and dioceses
as there were cities. This is why the bishops were so numerous and dioceses so many in the
East and in Italy where the country was covered with cities. In Gaul, on the contrary, there
were but 120 dioceses between the Rhine and the Pyrenees, and the most of these, save in the
south, were of the size of a modern French department. Each province became an ecclesiastical
province; the bishop of the capital (metropolis) became the metropolitan, or as he was later
termed, the archbishop.

=The Councils.=--In this century began the councils, the great assemblies of the church. There
had already been some local councils at which the bishops and priests of a single province
had been present. For the first time, in 324,[175] Constantine convoked a General Assembly
of the World (an ecumenical council) at Nicæa, in Asia Minor; 318 ecclesiastics were in attendance.
They discussed questions of theology and drew up the Nicene Creed, the Catholic confession
of faith. Then the emperor wrote to all the churches, bidding them "conform to the will of
God as expressed by the council." This was the first ecumenical council, and there were three
others[176] of these before the arrival of the barbarians made an assembly of the whole church
impossible. The decisions reached by these councils had the force of law for all Christians:
the decisions are called Canons[177] (rules). The collection of these regulations constitutes
the Canon Law.

=The Heretics.=--From the second century there were among the Christians heretics who professed
opinions contrary to those of the majority of the church. Often the bishops of a country assembled
to pronounce the new teaching as false, to compel the author to abjure, and, if he refused,
to separate him from the communion of Christians. But frequently the author of the heresy had
partisans convinced of the truth of his teaching who would not submit and continued to profess
the condemned opinions. This was the cause of hatred and violent strife between them and the
faithful who were attached to the creed of the church (the orthodox). As long as the Christians
were weak and persecuted by the state, they fought among themselves only with words and with
books; but when all society was Christian, the contests against the heretics turned into persecutions,
and sometimes into civil wars.

Almost all of the heresies of this time arose among the Greeks of Asia or Egypt, peoples who
were subtle, sophistical, and disputatious. The heresies were usually attempts to explain the
mysteries of the Trinity and of the Incarnation. The most significant of these heresies was
that of Arius; he taught that Christ was created by God the Father and was not equal to him.
The Council of Nicæa condemned this view, but his doctrine, called Arianism, spread throughout
the East. From that time for two centuries Catholics and Arians fought to see who should have
the supremacy in the church; the stronger party anathematized, exiled, imprisoned, and sometimes
killed the chiefs of the opposition. For a long time the Arians had the advantage; several
emperors took sides with them; then, too, as the barbarians entered the empire, they were converted
to Arianism and received Arian bishops. More than two centuries had passed before the Catholics
had overcome this heresy.

=Paganism.=--The ancient religion of the Gentiles did not disappear at a single stroke. The
Orient was quickly converted; but in the Occident there were few Christians outside the cities,
and even there many continued to worship idols. The first Christian emperors did not wish to
break with the ancient imperial religion; they simultaneously protected the bishops of the
Christians and the priests of the gods; they presided over councils and yet remained pontifex
maximus. One of them, Julian (surnamed the Apostate), openly returned to the ancient religion.
The emperor Gratian in 384[178] was the first to refuse the insignia of the pontifex maximus.
But as intolerance was general in this century, as soon as the Roman religion ceased to be
official, men began to persecute it. The sacred fire of Rome that had burned for eleven centuries
was extinguished, the Vestals were removed, the Olympian games were celebrated for the last
time in 394. Then the monks of Egypt issued from their deserts to destroy the altars of the
false gods and to establish relics in the temples of Anubis and Serapis. Marcellus, a bishop
of Syria, at the head of a band of soldiers and gladiators sacked the temple of Jupiter at
Aparnæa and set himself to scour the country for the destruction of the sanctuaries; he was
killed by the peasants and raised by the church to the honor of a saint.

Soon idolatry persisted only in the rural districts where it escaped detection; the idolaters
were peasants who continued to adore sacred trees and fountains and to assemble in proscribed
sanctuaries.[179] The Christians commenced to call "pagans" (the peasants) those whom up to
this time they had called Gentiles. And this name has still clung to them. Paganism thus led
an obscure existence in Italy, in Gaul, and in Spain down to the end of the sixth century.

=Theodosius.=--The incursions of the Germanic peoples into the empire continued for two centuries
until the Huns, a people of Tartar horsemen, came from the steppes of Asia, and threw themselves
on the Germans, who occupied the country to the north of the Danube. In that country there
was already a great German kingdom, that of the Goths, who had been converted to Christianity
by Ulfilas, an Arian. To escape the Huns, a part of this people, the West Goths (Visigoths),
fled into Roman territory, defeated the Roman armies, and overspread the country even to Greece.
Valens, the emperor of the East, had perished in the defeat of Adrianople (378); Gratian, the
emperor of the West, took as colleague a noble Spaniard, Theodosius by name, and gave him the
title of Augustus of the East (379). Theodosius was able to rehabilitate his army by avoiding
a great battle with the Visigoths and by making a war of skirmishes against them; this decided
them to conclude a treaty. They accepted service under the empire, land was given them in the
country to the south of the Danube, and they were charged with preventing the enemies of the
empire from crossing the river.

Theodosius, having reëstablished peace in the East, came to the West where Gratian had been
killed by order of the usurper Maximus (383). This Maximus was the commander of the Roman army
of Britain; he had crossed into Gaul with his army, abandoning the Roman provinces of Britain
to the ravages of the highland Scotch, had defeated Gratian, and invaded Italy. He was master
of the West, Theodosius of the East. The contest between them was not only one between persons;
it was a battle between two religions: Theodosius was Catholic and had assembled a council
at Constantinople to condemn the heresy of Arius (381); Maximus was ill-disposed toward the
church. The engagement occurred on the banks of the Save; Maximus was defeated, taken, and
executed.

Theodosius established Valentinian II, the son of Gratian, in the West and then returned to
the East. But Arbogast, a barbarian Frank, the general of the troops of Valentinian, had the
latter killed, and without venturing to proclaim himself emperor since he was not a Roman,
had his Roman secretary Eugenius made emperor. This was a religious war: Arbogast had taken
the side of the pagans; Theodosius, the victor, had Eugenius executed and himself remained
the sole emperor. His victory was that of the Catholic church.

In 391 the emperor Theodosius promulgated the Edict of Milan. It prohibited the practice of
the ancient religion; whoever offered a sacrifice, adored an idol, or entered a temple should
be condemned to death as a state criminal, and his goods should be confiscated to the profit
of the informer. All the pagan temples were razed to the ground or converted into Christian
churches. And so Theodosius was extolled by ecclesiastical writers as the model for emperors.

Theodosius gave a rare example of submission to the church. The inhabitants of Thessalonica
had risen in riot, had killed their governor, and overthrown the statues of the emperor. Theodosius
in irritation ordered the people to be massacred; 7,000 persons suffered death. When the emperor
presented himself some time after to enter the cathedral of Milan, Ambrose, the bishop, charged
him with his crime before all the people, and declared that he could not give entrance to the
church to a man defiled with so many murders. Theodosius confessed his sin, accepted the public
penance which the bishop imposed upon him, and for eight months remained at the door of the church.

FOOTNOTES:

[168] Of the forty-five emperors from the first to the third century, twenty-nine died by assassination.

[169] Other considerations also led to the change of capital--ED.

[170] There were often two emperors, one in the East, the other in the West, but there was
but one empire. The two emperors, though they may have resided, one in Constantinople and the
other in Italy, were considered as being but one person. In addressing one of them the word
"you" (in the plural) was used, as if both were addressed at the same time. This was the first
use of the pronoun of the second person in the plural for such a purpose; for throughout antiquity
even kings and emperors were addressed in the singular.

[171] The number under Diocletian was 101; under Constantine (Bury's Gibbon, ii., 170), 116.--ED.

[172] Without counting the ancient titles of consul and præter, which were still preserved,
and the new title of patrician which was given by special favor.

[173] Of inferior rank.

[174] We know the whole system by an official almanac of about the year 419, entitled Notitia
Dignitatum, a list of all the civil and military dignities and powers in the East and West.
Each dignitary has a special section preceded by an emblem which represents his honors.

[175] It met in 325.--ED.

[176] It is to be noted that the author is speaking of ecumenical or world councils. The three
referred to are Constantinople (381), Ephesus (431), and Chalcedon (451).--ED.

[177] Today, even, the word "canonical" signifies "in accordance with rule."

[178] Probably 375; Gratian died in 383.--ED.

[179] Several saints, like St. Marcellus, found martyrdom at the hands of peasants exasperated
at the destruction of their idols.

APPENDIX

REFERENCES FOR SUPPLEMENTARY READING

PREHISTORIC TIMES

Lubbock: Prehistoric Times. 1878. Lubbock: Origin of Civilisation. 1881. Hoernes: Primitive
Man. Temple Primers. 1901. Lyell: Antiquity of Man. London: 1863. Keary: Dawn of History. Tylor:
Anthropology. 1881. McLennan: Studies in Ancient History. 1886. Ripley: Races of Europe. 1899.
Sergi: The Mediterranean Race. 1901. Maine: Ancient Law. 1883. Mason: Woman's Share in Primitive
Culture. 1894.

GENERAL WORKS OF REFERENCE--
  Ploetz: Epitome of Universal History. 1883.
  Ranke: Universal History, edited by Prothero. 1885.
  Andrews: Institutes of General History. 1887.
  Haydn: Dictionary of Dates. 1889.
  Lamed: History for Ready Reference.

ATLASES--
  Spruner-Sieglin: Atlas Antiquus.
  Kiepert: Atlas Antiquus. Leach.
  Putzger: Historischer Schul-atlas. 1902.
  Droysen: Allgemeiner Historischer Hand-atlas. Leipsic, 1885.
  Freeman: Historical Geography of Europe. Edited by Bury. 1903.
  Schrader: Atlas de Géographique Historique.

GENERAL HISTORIES OF THE EAST--
  Sayce: Ancient Empires of the East. 1885.
  Lenormant and Chevallier: Ancient History of the East. 1875.
  Duncker: History of Antiquity. 1877-82
  Rawlinson: Manual of Ancient History. 1871.
  Clarke: Ten Great Religions. 1894.
  Cunningham: Western Civilisation in Its Economic Aspects. 1898.

EGYPT

SOURCES--
  Records of the Past, 1888-92. Old Series, 1875-8.
  Herodotus: Book II. Rawlinson's edition. 1897.

LITERATURE--
  Rawlinson: Ancient Egypt. 1887.
  Flinders-Petrie: History of Egypt. 1899.
  Breasted: History of Egypt. 1905.
  Erman: Life in Ancient Egypt. 1894.
  Maspero: Dawn of Civilisation. 1896.
  Maspero: Life in Ancient Egypt and Assyria. 1892.
  Wilkinson: Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians.
  Perrot and Chipiez: History of Art in Ancient Egypt. 1882.
  Flinders-Petrie: Egyptian Decorative Art. 1895.

BABYLON AND ASSYRIA

SOURCES--
  Records of the Past.

LITERATURE--
  Ragozin: Chaldea. 1886.
  Ragozin: Assyria. 1887.
  Sayce: Assyria: Its Princes, Priests, and People. 1890.
  Sayce: Social Life among the Assyrians and Babylonians. 1893.
  Sayce: Fresh Light from Ancient Monuments. 1883.
  Sayce: Babylonians and Assyrians. 1889.
  Goodspeed: History of the Babylonians and Assyrians. 1902.
  Layard: Discoveries among the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon. 1875.
  Maspero: Struggle of the Nations. 1897.
  Maspero: Passing of the Empires. 1899.
  Perrot and Chipiez: History of Art in Chaldea and Assyria. 1884.

INDIA

SOURCES--
  Sacred Books of the East.

LITERATURE--
  Wheeler: Primer of Indian History. 1890.
  Smith, V.A.: Early History of India. 1904.
  Ragozin: Vedic India. 1895.
  Davids: Buddhist India. 1903.
  Rhys-Davids: Buddhism. 1899.
  Lane-Poole: Mediæval India under Mohammedan Rule. 1903.
  Monier-Williams: Buddhism, Brahmanism, and Hinduism. 1889.
  Monier-Williams: Indian Wisdom. London: 1875-6.
  Frazer: Literary History of India. 1898.
  Maine: Early History of Institutions. 1875.

PERSIA

SOURCES--
  Records of the Past.
  Herodotus.
  Church: Stories of the East (from Herodotus). 1883.

LITERATURE--
  Benjamin: Persia. 1887.
  Markham: General Sketch of the History of Persia. 1874.
  Vaux: Persia from the Monuments. 1878.
  Jackson: Zoroaster, Prophet of Ancient Iran. 1899.
  Perrot and Chipiez: History of Art in Persia, Phrygia, etc. 1895.

THE PHŒNICIANS

SOURCES--
  The Old Testament.
  Voyage of Hanno, translated by Falconer.

LITERATURE--
  Rawlinson: Phœnicia. 1889.
  Maspero: Struggle of the Nations. 1897.
  Paton: Early History of Syria and Palestine. 1901.
  Taylor: The Alphabet. 1899.
  Perrot and Chipiez: History of Art in Phœnicia and Cyprus. 1885.

THE HEBREWS

SOURCES--
  The Old Testament.
  The Talmud.
  Josephus: Antiquities of the Jews; Wars of the Jews; Whiston's
    translation. 1825. New edition of Whiston by Shilleto. 1889-90

LITERATURE--
  Hosmer: The Jews. 1885.
  Sayce: Early History of the Hebrews. 1897.
  Kent: History of the Hebrew People. 1899.
  Kent: History of the Jewish People. 1899.
  Milman: History of the Jews. 1870.
  Stanley: History of the Jewish Church. 1884.
  McCurdy: History, Prophecy, and the Monuments. 1901. 3 V.
  Graetz: History of the Jews. 1891-98. 1890.
  Day: Social Life of the Hebrews. 1901.
  Rosenau: Jewish Ceremonial Institutions and Customs. Baltimore. 1903.
  Leroy-Boileau: Israel among the Nations; translated by Hellman. 1900.
  Cheyne: Jewish Religious Life after the Exile. 1898.

GREECE

GENERAL HISTORIES--
  Grote: History of Greece. 1851-6.
  Holm: History of Greece. 1894-8.
  Duruy: History of Greece. 1890-2.
  Abbott: History of Greece. 1888-99.
  One volume histories of Greece are: Bury. 1903; Oman 1901; Botsford.
    1899; Myers. 1895; Cox, 1883.

GREEK ANTIQUITIES--
  Smith: Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities. 1890-1 2 v.
  Gardner and Jevons: Manual of Greek Antiquities. 1895.
  Schömann: The Antiquities of Greece. London, 1880. A new and improved
    edition in the German.
  Harpers' Classical Literature and Antiquities. 1896.

GREEK HISTORICAL SOURCES (translated into English)--
  Homer: Iliad. Translated by Lang, Leaf, and Myers.
  Homer: Odyssey. Translated by Butcher and Lang.
  Herodotus: Translated by Rawlinson.
    Text of same with abridged notes. 1897.
  Herodotus: Translated by Macaulay.
  Thucydides: Translated by Jowett.
  Xenophon: Dakyns' edition. 1890-7.
  Demosthenes: Works translated by Kennedy.
  Arrian: Translated in Bonn Library.
  Pausanias: Description of Greece. Frazer's edition.
  Polybius: Shuckburgh's edition. 1889.
  Plutarch: Lives. Translated by Stewart and Long. 4 v., 1880.
  Plutarch: Lives. North's translation.

PERIODS OF GREEK HISTORY--
  Tsountas-Manatt: Mycenæan Age. 1896.
  Ridgeway: The Early Age in Greece. 1901.
  Freeman: Studies of Travel: Greece. 1893.
  Clerke: Familiar Studies in Homer. 1892.
  Jebb: Introduction to Homer. 1887.
  Allcroft and Mason: Early Grecian History. 1898.
  Benjamin: Troy. 1880.
  Allcroft and Mason: Making of Athens. 1898.
  Cox: Greeks and Persians. 1876.
  Grundy: The Great Persian War. 1901.
  Cox: Athenian Empire. 1877.
  Lloyd: Age of Pericles. 1875.
  Abbott: Pericles. 1895.
  Grant: Greece in the Age of Pericles. 1893.
  Allcroft and Mason: Peloponnesian War. 1898.
  Freeman: Sicily. 1892.
  Allcroft and Mason: Sparta and Thebes. 1898.
  Sankey: Spartan and Theban Supremacies. 1877.
  Allcroft and Mason: Decline of Hellas. 1898.
  Curteis: Rise of the Macedonian Empire. 1878.
  Hogarth: Philip and Alexander. 1897.
  Wheeler: Alexander the Great. 1900.
  Mahaffy: Alexander's Empire. 1887.
  Mahaffy: Problems in Greek History. 1892.
  Bevan: House of Seleucus. 1902.
  Mahaffy: Empire of Egypt under the Ptolemies. 1899.
  Mahaffy: Greek Life and Thought. 1887.

GREEK POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT--
  Fowler: City-State of the Greeks and Romans. 1893.
  Greenidge: Greek Constitutional History. 1896.
  Schömann: Antiquities of Greece. 1886.
  Cox: Lives of Greek Statesmen. 1886.
  Gilbert: Constitutional Antiquities of Athens and Sparta. 1895.
  Botsford: Athenian Constitution. 1893
  Whibley: Greek Oligarchies. 1896.
  Whibley: Political Parties in Athens in the Pelopponnesian War. 1889.
  Freeman: History of Federal Government. 1863.

SOCIAL LIFE OF THE GREEKS--
  Blümner: Home Life of the Ancient Greeks. 1893.
  Mahaffy: Social Life in Greece. 1887.
  Mahaffy: A Survey of Greek Civilisation. 1899.
  Guhl and Koner: Life of the Greeks and Romans. 1877.
  Becker: Charicles.
  Cunningham: Western Civilisation in its Economic Aspects 1898.
  Davidson: Education of the Greek People. 1894.
  Mahaffy: Old Greek Education. 1882.

HISTORIES OF GREEK LITERATURE--
  Mahaffy: History of Classical Greek Literature. 1880.
  Murray: Ancient Greek Literature. 1897.
  Jevons: History of Greek Literature. 1886.
  Jebb: Primer of Greek Literature. 1878.
  Jebb: Classical Greek Poetry.
  Symonds: The Greek Poets.
  Jebb: The Attic Orators. 1876.
  Pater: Greek Studies. 1895.

HISTORIES OF ART--
  Reber: History of Ancient Art. 1882.
  Lübke: Outlines of the History of Art. 1881.
  Perrot and Chipiez: History of Art in Primitive Greece. 1895.
  Tarbell: History of Greek Art. 1896.
  Fergusson: History of Architecture. 1875.
  Gardner: Handbook of Greek Sculpture. 1896-7.
  Harrison and Verall: Mythology and Monuments of Ancient Athens. 1894.
  Harrison: Introductory Studies in Greek Art. 1892.
  Gardner: Ancient Athens. 1902.

GREEK ARCHÆOLOGY--
  Collignon: Manual of Greek Archæology. 1886.
  Murray: Handbook of Greek Archæology. 1892.
  Schuckardt: Schliemann's Excavations. 1891.
  Diehl: Excursions in Greece. 1893.
  Gardner: New Chapters in Greek History. 1892.

GREEK PHILOSOPHY--
  Mayor: Sketch of Ancient Philosophy. 1881.
  Marshall: Short History of Greek Philosophy. 1891.
  Plato: Translated by Jowett.
  Aristotle: Translated in Bohn's Library.
  Zeller: Outlines of the History of Greek Philosophy. 1890.

GRECIAN MYTHOLOGY--
  Gayley: Classic Myths. 1893.
  Guerber: Myths of Greece and Rome. 1893.

ROME

GENERAL HISTORIES--
  Mommsen: History of Rome.
  Ihne: History of Rome. 1871-82.
  Duruy: History of Rome. 1884-5.
  Long: Decline of the Roman Republic. 1864-74.
  Greenidge: History of Rome during the Latin Republic. 1904.
  Shuckburgh: History of Rome. 1894.
  How and Leigh: History of Rome. 1896.
  Pelham: Outlines of Roman History. 1893.
  Botsford: History of Rome. 1903.
  Merivale: History of the Romans under the Empire. 1875.
  Gibbon: Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Bury's edition.

SOURCES OF ROMAN HISTORY (translated into English)--
  Livy: History and Epitome, translated by Spillan. 1887-90.
  Polybius: Histories, translated by Shuckburgh. 1889.
  Plutarch: Lives, translated by Stewart and Long. 1880.
  Appian: Roman History, translated by White. 1899.
  Sallust, Florus, and Velleius Paterculus, translated by Watson. 1887.
  Cicero: Orations, translated by Yonge. 1851-2.
  Cicero: Letters, translated by Shuckburgh. 1899.
  Cæsar: Gallic War and Civil War.
  Justin, Nepos, and Eutropius, translated by Watson.
  Suetonius: Lives of the Twelve Cæsars, translated by Thomas Forester.
    1898.
  Tacitus: Annals, translated by Church and Brodribb. 1895.
  Tacitus: History, translated by Church and Brodribb. 1894.
  Tacitus: Germania, translated by Church and Brodribb. 1893.
  Josephus: Antiquities and Wars of the Jews, translated by
    Whiston-Shilleto. 1889-90.
  Pliny the Younger: Letters, translated by Melmoth.
  Marcus Aurelius: Meditations, translated by Long.
  Ammianus Marcellinus: Roman History, translated by Yonge. 1894.
  Julian the Emperor: Works, translated by King. 1888.
  Eusebius: Ecclesiastical History and Life of Constantine translated
    by McGiffert. 1890.
  Jerome: Works.
  Augustine: Works.
  Munro: Source Book of Roman History. 1904.
  Greenidge and Clay: Sources for Roman History B.C. 133-70. 1903.
  Gwatkin: Selections from Early Christian Writers. 1893.

PERIODS OF ROMAN HISTORY--
  Ihne: Early Rome. 1893.
  Allcroft and Mason: Struggle for Empire. 1893
  Church: Carthage. 1886.
  Smith: Carthage and the Carthaginians. 1890.
  Smith: Rome and Carthage. 1891.
  Arnold: Second Punic War. 1849.
  Dodge: Life of Hannibal. 1891.
  Morris: Hannibal. 1897.
  How: Hannibal and the Great War between Rome and Carthage. 1899.
  Allcroft and Mason: Rome under the Oligarchs. 1893.
  Beesly: Gracchi, Marius, and Sulla. 1893.
  Allcroft and Mason: Decline of the Oligarchy. 1893.
  Oman: Seven Roman Statesmen. 1902.
  Beesly: Catiline, Clodius, and Tiberius. 1898.
  Strachan-Davidson: Cicero. 1894.
  Forsyth: Life of Cicero. 1877.
  Boissier: Cicero and His Friends. 1897.
  Froude: Cæsar. 1879.
  Dodge: Cæsar. 1892.
  Fowler: Cæsar. 1892.
  Merivale: The Roman Triumvirates. 1877.
  Holmes: Cæsar's Conquest of Gaul. 1899.
  Mahaffy: Greek World under Roman Sway. 1890.
  Bossier: Roman Africa. 1899.
  Bossier: Rome and Pompeii. 1896.
  Hall: The Romans on the Riviera and the Rhone. 1898.
  Bury: (Students') Roman Empire. 1893.
  Capes: Early Roman Empire. 1886.
  Mommsen: Provinces of the Roman Empire. 1887.
  Firth: Augustus Cæsar. 1903.
  Shuckburgh: Augustus. 1903.
  Tarver: Tiberius the Tyrant. 1902. 1898.
  Bryant: Reign of Antoninus. 1896.
  Capes: Age of the Antonines. 1887.
  Watson: Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. 1884.
  Firth: Constantine the Great. 1905.
  Negri: Julian the Apostate. 1905.
  Gardner: Julian. 1895.
  Glover: Life and Letters in the Fourth Century. 1901.
  Dill: Roman Society in the Last Century of the Western Empire. 1899.
  Kingsley: Roman and Teuton. 1889.
  Hodgkin: Dynasty of Theodosius. 1889.
  Villari: Barbarian Invasions of Italy. 1902.
  Hodgkin: Italy and Her Invaders, 1892-9.
  Sheppard: Fall of Rome. 1861.
  Bury: Later Roman Empire. 1889.
  Oman: Byzantine Empire. 1892.

ROMAN ANTIQUITIES--
  Ramsay-Lanciani: Manual of Roman Antiquities. 1895.
  Smith: Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities. Murray. 1890-1.
  Sayffert: Dictionary of Classical Antiquities, edited by Nettleship
    and Sandys. 1895.
  Schreiber: Atlas of Classical Antiquities. 1895.

ROMAN POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT--
  Fowler: City-State of the Greeks and Romans. 1895.
  Taylor: Constitutional and Political History of Rome. 1899.
  Greenidge: Roman Public Life. 1901.
  Abbott: Roman Political Institutions. 1901.
  Arnold: Roman Provincial Administration. 1879.
  Mommsen: Provinces of the Roman Empire. 1887.
  Seely: Roman Imperialism. 1871.

SOCIAL LIFE OF THE ROMANS--
  Guhl and Koner: Life of the Greeks and Romans. 1889.
  Church: Roman Life in the Days of Cicero. 1883.
  Fowler: Roman Festivals. 1899.
  Ingram: History of Slavery. 1895.
  Rydberg: Roman Days. 1879.
  Thomas: Roman Life under the Cæsars. 1899.
  Johnston: Private Life of the Romans. 1903.
  Inge: Society in Rome under the Cæsars. 1888.
  Pellison: Roman Life in Pliny's Time. 1896.
  Lecky: History of European Morals. 1869.

ROMAN LITERATURE--
  Mackail: Latin Literature. 1898.
  Cruttwell: History of Roman Literature. 1878.
  Simcox: History of Latin Literature. 1883.
  Teuffel-Schwabe: History of Roman Literature. 1891.
  Tyrrell: Latin Poetry. 1895.
  Sellar: Roman Poets of the Republic. 1881.
  Sellar: Roman Poets of the Augustan Age. 1877.

ROMAN ART--
  Reber: History of Ancient Art. 1882.
  Burn: Roman Literature in Relation to Roman Art. 1890.
  Wickoff: Roman Art. 1900.
  Falke: Greece and Rome: Their Life and Art. 1885.
  See under Greece for other histories of art.

ROMAN LAW--
  Hadley: Introduction to Roman Law. 1876.
  Morey: Outlines of Roman Law. 1893.
  Muirhead: Historical Introduction to the Private Law of Rome. 1899.
  Howe: Studies in the Civil Law. 1896.

ROMAN ARCHÆOLOGY--
  Lanciani: Ancient Rome in the Light of Recent Discoveries. 1888.
  Lanciani: Pagan and Christian Rome. 1896.
  Lanciani: Ruins and Excavations of Ancient Rome, 1897.
  Lanciani: Destruction of Ancient Rome. 1899.
  Mau: Pompeii, translated by Kelsey. 1899.
  Plainer: Topography and Monuments of Ancient Rome. 1904.
  Lovell: Stories in Stone upon the Roman Forum. 1902.
  Burton-Brown: Recent Excavations in the Roman Forum. 1905.

CHRISTIANITY--
  General Church Histories:
    Moeller: History of the Christian Church. 1898-1900.
    Gieseler: Church History. 1857-79.
    Neander: History of the Christian Religion and Church. 1853-4.
    Schaff: History of the Christian Church. 1884-92.
    Alzog: Manual of Universal Church History. 1874-8.
    Kurtz: Church History. 1860.
    Milman: History of Christianity.
    Milman: Latin Christianity. 1881.
    Allen: Outline of Christian History. 1886.
    Allen: Christian Institutions. 1897.
    Fisher: History of the Christian Church. 1887.

  The Early Church:
    Pressensé: Early Years of Christianity. 1873.
    Fisher: Beginnings of Christianity. 1877.
    Carr: Church and the Roman Empire. 1902.
    Spence: Early Christianity and Paganism. 1902.
    Ramsay: Church in the Roman Empire before 170. 1893.
    Gregg: Decian Persecution. 1898.
    Healy: The Valerian Persecution. 1905.
    Mason: Persecution of Diocletian. 1876.
    Renan: Influence of the Institutions, Thought, and Culture of Rome
      on Christianity. 1898.
    Hardy: Studies in Roman History. 1906.
    Uhlhorn: Conflict of Christianity with Heathenism. 1879.
    Newman: Arians of the Fourth Century. 1888.
    Gwatkin: Arian Controversy 1889.
    Cutts: St. Augustine. 1881.
    Stanley: Eastern Church. 1884.
    Smith-Wace: Dictionary of Christian Biography. 1877-87.

COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

Printed by BALLANTYNE & CO. LIMITED Tavistock Street, London

       *       *       *       *       *