Though the Roysterer is generally fuddled, he is rarely glorious. Having once driven a tandem,
he is credited with a complete knowledge of horses, which, however, he invariably fails to
turn to any profitable account. He begins his day with whiskey cock-tails, continues it with
a series of brandy-and-sodas, followed by unlimited magnums of brut Champagne, and concludes
it with more Champagne, a liberal allowance of liqueur brandies, and two or three tumblers
of whiskey-and-seltzer to round off the night. As the hours advance, his face assumes a ruddier
glow. With the progress of years, being compelled to conceal the increasing girth of his lower
chest by the constant inflation of his upper, he wears frock-coats. The point which is lacking
in his conversation is conspicuous in his boots, whilst his collars possess an elevation entirely
denied to his manners.

He suffers from no restraint in consequence of his marriage. He is adored by a certain class
of burlesque actresses. He flatters them by adoring himself. He owns a small house in Belgravia,
but he frequently lives elsewhere. No pigeon-shooting matches, and few poker parties, amongst
a certain set, are complete without him. Having benefited only to a limited extent under the
will of his father, he is not generally reputed to be wealthy, but he is always extravagant.
Yet he manages to steer clear of the painful consequences of writs with some astuteness. In
middle-age he becomes obese, and cannot go the pace as formerly. His friends therefore abandon
him, and he dies before he is fifty, in reduced circumstances, of an enlarged liver.

       *       *       *       *       *

"JOHNNYKIN AND THE GOBLINGS."

Two hundred and fifty Goblings in the Grand Banquet room of the Hotel Métropole assembled,
as all the world knows by this time, to bid "Farewell, but not good-bye," as CLEMENT SCOTT's
admirable verses have it, to JOHNNYKIN; that is, to Mr. J. L. TOOLE, usually and popularly
spoken of as "JOHNNIE TOOLE," and generally endeared to his private friends as, simply, "JOHNNIE."
Quite the best specimen of a "JOHNNIE," among all the "Johnnies" of the present time. Mr. Punch,
for the first time in his life, permitted his merry men, The Knights of His Own Round Table,
to convert their usual Wednesday dinner into a "movable feast," and to transfer it to the day
beforehand, in order to do honour to the unique occasion, and the exceptional guest of the
evening. No wonder there were two hundred and fifty acceptances to the bill of fare, and two
hundred and fifty more ready to sign, seeing that the invitations came in effect from the President,
the Solicitor-General, who could not solicit in vain.

Mr. FRANK LOCKWOOD, Q.C., M.P., excelled himself in proposing the toast of "The Drama." He
contemned the ancient Greek Drama, but was of opinion--Counsel's opinion--or, as he was speaking
of the Romans, "Consul's opinion"--that there was "more money in the Latin Drama." Mr. Punch,
regretted he was not at his learned friend's elbow to suggest, that an apt illustration of
the truth of his remark might be found in the success of AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS, IMPERATOR.

