THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 495.] SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HERMITAGE AT FROGMORE.

Frogmore is one of the most delightful of the still retreats of Royalty. It was formerly the
seat of the Hon. Mrs. Egerton, of whom it was purchased by Queen Charlotte, in 1792, who made
considerable additions to the house and gardens. The grounds were laid out by Uvedale Price,
Esq. a celebrated person in the annals of picturesque gardening. The ornamental improvements
were made by the direction of the Princess Elizabeth, (now Landgravine of Hesse Homburg,) whose
taste for rural quiet we noticed in connexion with an Engraving of Her Royal Highness' Cottage,
adjoining Old Windsor churchyard. [1]

    [1]: See Mirror, No 475.

Frogmore occupies part of a fertile valley, which divides the Little Park from Windsor Forest,
and comprises about thirteen acres. Mr. Hakewill describes it as "diversified with great skill
and taste, and a piece of water winds throughout it with a pleasing variety of turn and shape.
The trees and shrubs, both native and exotic, which spread their shade and diffuse their fragrance,
are disposed with the best effect; while buildings are so placed as to enliven and give character
to the general scene. The Ruin was designed by Mr. James Wyatt, and being seated on the bank
of the water, as well as in part in the wood, it presents, with its creeping ivy and fractured
buttresses, a most pleasing object from various points of the garden. The Hermitage (see the
Engraving) is a small circular thatched building, completely embowered in lofty trees, and
was constructed from a drawing of the Princess Elizabeth. There is also a Gothic Temple, sacred
to solitude, and a well-imagined and picturesque barn, which heighten the appropriate scenery.
Too much cannot be said of the secluded beauty of this charming spot, and nothing further need
be said of the taste and judgment of Major Price, to whom its arrangements have been entrusted."

The Hermitage contains a tablet spread with fruit, eggs, and bread, and a figure of a hermit
reading the Scriptures; at the entrance are the following lines, written on the marriage of
the Princess Royal:--

  Ye whom variety delights,
  Descend awhile from Windsor's heights,
  And in this hovel deign to tread,
  Quitting the castle for the shed;
  Such were the muse's favourite haunts,
  From care secluded and from wants.
  What nature needs this but can give,
  Could we as nature dictates live;
  For see, on this plain board at noon
  Are placed a platter and a spoon,
  Which, though they mark no gorgeous treat,
  Suggest 'tis reasonable to eat.
  What though the sun's meridian light
  Beams not on our hovel bright,
  Though others need, we need him not,
  Coolness and gloom befit a cot.
  Our hours we count without the sun.
  These sands proclaim them as they run,
  Sands within a glass confined,
  Glass which ribs of iron bind;
  For Time, still partial to this glass,
  Made it durable as brass,
  That, placed secure upon a shelf,
  None might crush it but himself.
  Let us here the day prolong
  With loyal and with nuptial song,
  Such as, with duteous strains addrest,
  May gratify each royal guest;
  Thrice happy, should our rural toils
  Be requited by their smiles.

There are other affectionate testimonials in the grounds. The Gothic ruin contains an apartment
fitted up as an oratory, ornamented with a copy of the Descent from the Cross, modelled in
chalk, after the celebrated painting by Rembrandt; busts of George III. and the Duke of Kent;
a posthumous marble figure of an infant child of his present Majesty; and an alto-relievo representing
an ascending spirit attended by a guardian angel with the inscription--

             Monumental Tablet
               To the Memory
                   of
  Her Royal Highness the Princess Charlotte.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT WAGES TO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.

(For the Mirror.)

Chamberlayne, in his Angliæ Notitia, says, "Although the lords of parliament are to bear their
own charges, because they represent there only themselves; yet all the commons, both lay and
clergy, that is, Procuratores Cleri, are to have rationales expensus, (as the words of the
writ are) that is, such allowance as the king considering the prices of all things, shall judge
meet to impose upon the people to pay. In the 17th of Edward II. it was ten groats for knights,
and five groats for burgesses; but not long after it was four shillings for all others, which
in those days, as appears by the prices of all things, was a considerable sum, above ten times
more than it is now, (1688) for not only then expenses were considered, though that was great
by reason of the suitable attendance that then every parliament-man had, but also their pains,
their loss of time, and necessary neglect of their own private affairs for the service of their
country; and when the counties, cities, and boroughs paid so dear for their expenses, they
were wont to take care to chuse such men as were best able, and most diligent in the speedy
despatch of affairs; by which means, with some others, more business in those times was despatched
in parliament in a week, than is now perhaps in ten; so that the protections for parliament-men
and their servants from arrests were not then grievous, when scarce any parliament or sessions
lasted so long as one of the four terms at Westminster.

"The aforementioned expenses duly paid, did cause all the petty decayed boroughs of England
to become humble suitors to the king, that they might not be obliged to send burgesses to parliament;
whereby it came to pass, that divers were unburgessed, as it was in particular granted to Chipping,
or Market-Morriton, upon their petition; and then the number of the Commons House being scarce
half so many as at present, then debates and bills were sooner expedited." page 156, 21st. edit.

Halsted, in his History of Kent, tells us, "The pay of the burgesses of Canterbury was fixed
(anno 1411) at two shillings a-day for each, while such burgess was absent from his family
attending his duty. In 1445 the wages were no more than twelve pence a-day; two years afterwards
they were increased to sixteenpence, and in 1503 had again been raised to two shillings. In
Queen Mary's reign, the corporation refused to continue this payment any longer, and the wages
of the members were then levied by assessment on the inhabitants at large, and continued to
be so raised till these kinds of payments were altogether discontinued."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORD "EI."

(For the Mirror.)

This word, which was engraven on the temple of Apollo, at Delphi, has occasioned much controversy
among the literati. The learned and admirable Plutarch tells us that it means "thou art" as
if "thou art one." The Langhornes, in their life of this philosopher, [2] attack his opinion
as inconsistent with "the whole tenour of the Heathen Mythology." It in to be observed, that
the Greek word for priests is "[Greek: iereis]" (iereis). But I infer nothing from this; yet
at the same time it is a remarkable circumstance. The objection of the Langhornes is frivolous;
for the sun (Apollo) in most nations, was considered chief of the gods, and this inscription
was placed to prove his superiority and unity.

    [2] Langhorne's Plutarch, vol. i. p. xv.--Limbird's edition.

