THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 483.] SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

        *       *       *       *       *

Here is a picturesque contrivance of Art to embellish Nature. We have seen many such labours,
but none with more satisfaction than the Grotto at Ascot Place.

This estate is in the county of Surrey, five miles south-east from Windsor, on the side of
Ascot Heath, near Winkfield. The residence was erected by Andrew Lindergreen, Esq.; at whose
death it was sold to Daniel Agace, Esq., who has evinced considerable taste in the arrangement
of the grounds. The house is of brick, with wings. On the adjoining lawn, a circular Corinthian
temple produces a very pleasing effect. The gem of the estate is, however, the above Grotto,
which is situate at the end of a canal running through the grounds. Upon this labour of leisure
much expense and good taste have been bestowed. It consists of four rooms, but one only, for
the refreshing pastime of tea drinking, appears to be completed. It is almost entirely covered
with a white spar, intermixed with curious and unique specimens of polished pebbles and petrifactions.
The ceiling is ornamented with pendants of the same material; and the whole, when under the
influence of a strong sun, has an almost magical effect. These and other decorations of the
same grounds were executed by a person named Turnbull, who was employed here for several years
by Mr. Agace. Our View is copied from one of a series of engravings by Mr. Hakewill, the ingenious
architect; these illustrations being supplementary to that gentleman's quarto History of Windsor.

We request the reader to enjoy with us the delightful repose--the cool and calm retreat--of
the Engraving. Be he never so indifferent a lover of Nature, he must admire its picturesque
beauty; or be he never so enthusiastic, he must regard with pleasure the ingenuity of the artist.
To an amateur, the pursuit of decorating grounds is one of the most interesting and intellectual
amusements of retirement. We have worshipped from dewy morn till dusky eve in rustic temples
and "cool grots," and have sometimes aided in their construction. The roots, limbs, and trunks
of trees, and straw or reeds, are all the materials required to build these hallowed and hallowing
shrines. We call them hallowing, because they are either built, or directed to be built, in
adoration of the beauties of Nature; who, in turn, mantles them with endless varieties of lichens
and mosses. In the Rookery adjoining John Evelyn's "Wotton" were many such temples dedicated
to sylvan deities: one of them, to Pan, consists of a pediment supported by four rough trunks
of trees, the walls being of moss and laths, and enclosed with tortuous limbs. Beneath the
pediment is the following apposite line from Virgil:

  Pan curat oves oviumque magistros.
  Pan, guardian of the sheep and shepherds too.

Yet the building is not merely ornamental, for the back serves as a cow-house!

Pope's love of grotto-building has made it a poetical amusement. True it is that the best,
or ripest fruit, is always most pecked at.

        *       *       *       *       *

FAIRY SONG.

(For the Mirror.)

  Slowly o'er the mountain's brow
    Rosy light is dawning;
  See! the stars are fading now
    In the beam of morning.
  Yonder soft approaching ray
  Bids us, Fairies, haste away.

  Fairy guardians, watching o'er
    Flowers of tender blossom,
  Chilling damps descend no more,
    And the flow'ret's bosom,
  Opening to th' approaching day,
  Bids ye, Fairies, haste away.

  Hark! the lonely bird of night
    Stays its notes of sadness;
  Early birds, that hail the light,
    Soon shall wake to gladness.
  Philomel's concluding lay
  Bids us follow night away.

