OUR DEPORTMENT

Or the Manners, Conduct and Dress of the Most Refined Society; INCLUDING Forms for Letters,
Invitations, Etc., Etc. Also, Valuable Suggestions on Home Culture and Training.

Compiled from the Latest Reliable Authorities,

by

JOHN H. YOUNG, A.M.

Revised and Illustrated.

F. B. Dickerson & Co., Detroit, Mich.   St. Louis, Mo. Pennsylvania Publishing Co., Harrisburgh,
Pa. Union Publishing House, Chicago, Ill. 1881.

To go through this life with good manners possessed, Is to be kind unto all, rich, poor and
oppressed, For kindness and mercy are balms that will heal The sorrows, the pains, and the
woes that we feel.

Copyrighted by Freeman B. Dickerson, 1879 and 1881.

Preface.

No one subject is of more importance to people generally than a knowledge of the rules, usages
and ceremonies of good society, which are commonly expressed by the word "Etiquette." Its necessity
is felt wherever men and women associate together, whether in the city, village, or country
town, at home or abroad. To acquire a thorough knowledge of these matters, and to put that
knowledge into practice with perfect ease and self-complacency, is what people call good breeding.
To display an ignorance of them, is to subject the offender to the opprobrium of being ill-bred.

In the compilation of this work, the object has been to present the usages and rules which
govern the most refined American society, and to impart that information which will enable
any one, in whatever circumstances of life to acquire the perfect ease of a gentleman, or the
gentle manners and graceful deportment of a well-bred lady, whose presence will be sought for,
and who, by their graceful deportment will learn the art of being at home in any good society.

The work is so arranged, that every subject is conveniently classified and subdivided; it is
thus an easy matter to refer at once to any given subject. It has been the aim of the compiler
to give minutely all points that are properly embraced in a work on etiquette, even upon matters
of seemingly trivial importance. Upon some hitherto disputed points, those rules are given,
which are sustained by the best authorities and endorsed by good sense.

As the work is not the authorship of any one individual, and as no individual, whatever may
be his acquirements, could have the presumption to dictate rules for the conduct of society
in general, it is therefore only claimed that it is a careful compilation from all the best
and latest authorities upon the subject of etiquette and kindred matters, while such additional
material has been embraced within its pages, as, it is hoped, will be found of benefit and
interest to every American household.

                                                               J.H.Y.

Contents.

 CHAPTER I.
                                                                   PAGE.
 INTRODUCTORY                                                        13

 CHAPTER II.

 MANNERS.

 Good manners as an element of worldly success--Manner an index of
 character--The true gentleman--The true lady--Importance of
 trifles--Value of pleasing manners--Personal appearance enhanced and
 fortunes made by pleasing manners--Politeness the outgrowth of good
 manners                                                             20

 CHAPTER III.

 INTRODUCTIONS.

 Acquaintances thus formed--Promiscuous, informal and casual
 introductions--Introduction of a gentleman to a lady and a lady to a
 gentleman--Introduction at a ball--The manner of introduction--Introducing
 relatives--Obligatory introductions--Salutations after
 introduction--Introducing one's self--Letters of introduction--How they
 are to be delivered--Duty of a person to whom a letter of introduction is
 addressed--Letters of introduction for business purposes              31

 CHAPTER IV.

 SALUTATIONS.

 The salutation originally an act of worship--Its form in different
 nations--The bow, its proper mode--Words of salutation--Manner of
 bowing--Duties of the young to older people--How to avoid
 recognition--Etiquette of handshaking--Kissing as a mode of
 salutation--The kiss of friendship--The kiss of respect              42

 CHAPTER V.

 ETIQUETTE ON CALLS.

 Morning calls--Evening calls--Rules for formal calls--Calls at Summer
 resorts--Reception days--Calls made by cards--Returning the first
 call--Calls after a betrothal takes place--Forming new acquaintance by
 calls--The first call, by whom to be made--Calls of
 Congratulation--Visits of condolence--Keeping an account of
 calls--Evening visits--"Engaged" or "not at home" to callers--General
 rules relative to calls--New Year's calls                            52

 CHAPTER VI.

 ETIQUETTE ON VISITING.

 General invitations not to be accepted--The limit of a prolonged
 visit--Duties of a visitor--Duties of the host or hostess--True
 hospitality--Leave-taking--Invitations to guests--Forbearance with
 children--Guests making presents--Treatment of a host's friends      69

 CHAPTER VII.

 ETIQUETTE OF CARDS.

 Visiting and calling cards--Their size and style--Wedding cards--Leaving
 cards in calling--Cards for mother and daughter--Cards not to be sent in
 envelopes to return formal calls--Glazed cards not in fashion--P.P.C.
 cards--Cards of congratulation--When sent--Leave cards in making first
 calls of the season and after invitations--Mourning cards--Christmas and
 Easter cards--Cards of condolence--Bridegroom's card.                 75

 CHAPTER VIII.

 CONVERSATION.

 Character revealed by conversation--Importance of conversing
 well--Children should be trained to talk well--Cultivation of the
 memory--Importance of remembering names--How Henry Clay acquired this
 habit--Listening--Writing down one's thoughts--Requisites for a good
 talker--Vulgarisms--Flippancy--Sympathizing with another--Bestowing
 compliments--Slang--Flattery--Scandal and gossip--Satire and
 ridicule--Religion and politics to be avoided--Bestowing of
 titles--Interrupting another while talking--Adaptability in
 conversation--Correct use of words--Speaking one's mind--Profanity
 --Display of knowledge--Double entendres--Impertinent questions
 --Things to be avoided in conversation--Hobbies--Fault-finding
 --Disputes                                                            84

 CHAPTER IX.

 DINNER PARTIES.

 Dinners are entertainments for married people--Whom to invite--Forms of
 invitations--Punctuality required--The success of a dinner party--Table
 appointments--Proper size of a dinner party--Arrangement of guests at
 table--Serving dinner a la Russe--Duties of servants--Serving the
 dishes--General rules regarding dinner--Waiting on others--Monopolizing
 conversation--Duties of hostess and host--Retiring from the table--Calls
 required after a dinner party--Returning hospitalities--Expensive
 dinners not the most enjoyable--Wines at dinners                     106

 CHAPTER X.

 TABLE ETIQUETTE.

 Importance of acquiring good habits at the table--Table appointments for
 breakfast, luncheon and dinner--Use of the knife and fork--Of the
 napkin--Avoid fast eating and all appearance of greediness--General
 rules on the subject                                                 123

 CHAPTER XI.

 RECEPTIONS, PARTIES AND BALLS.

 Morning receptions--The dress and refreshments for
 them--Invitations--Musical matinees--Parties in the country--Five
 o'clock teas and kettle-drums--Requisites for a successful
 ball--Introductions at a ball--Receiving guests--The number to
 invite--Duties of the guests--General rules to be observed at
 balls--Some suggestions for gentlemen--Duties of an escort--Preparations
 for a ball--The supper--An after-call required                       129

 CHAPTER XII.

 STREET ETIQUETTE.

 The street manners of a lady--Forming street acquaintances--Recognizing
 friends in the street--Saluting a lady--Passing through a crowd--The
 first to bow--Do not lack politeness--How a lady and gentleman should
 walk together--When to offer the lady the arm--Going up and down
 stairs--Smoking in the streets--Carrying packages--Meeting a lady
 acquaintance--Corner loafers--Shouting in the street--Shopping
 etiquette--For public conveyances--Cutting acquaintances--General
 suggestions                                                          145

 CHAPTER XIII.

 ETIQUETTE OF PUBLIC PLACES.

 Conduct in church--Invitations to opera, theatres and concerts--Conduct
 in public assemblages--Remain until the performance closes--Conduct in
 picture galleries--Behavior at charity fairs--Conduct at an artist's
 studio                                                                157

 CHAPTER XIV.

 TRAVELING ETIQUETTE.

 Courtesies shown to ladies traveling alone--Duties of an escort--Duties
 of a lady to her escort--Ladies should assist other ladies traveling
 alone--The seats to be occupied in a railway car--Discretion to be used
 in forming acquaintances in traveling                                167

 CHAPTER XV.

 RIDING AND DRIVING.

 Learning to ride on horseback--The gentleman's duty as an escort in
 riding--How to assist a lady to mount--Riding with ladies--Assisting a
 lady to alight from a horse--Driving--The seat of honor in a
 carriage--Trusting the driver                                        174

 CHAPTER XVI.

 COURTSHIP.

 Proper conduct of gentlemen and ladies toward each other--Premature
 declaration of love--Love at first sight--Proper manner of
 courtship--Parents should exercise authority over daughters--An
 acceptable suitor--Requirements for a happy marriage--Proposals of
 marriage--A gentleman should not press an unwelcome suit--A lady's
 refusal--A doubtful answer--Unladylike conduct toward a suitor--The
 rejected suitor--Asking consent of parents--Presents after
 engagement--Conduct and relations of the engaged couple--Lovers'
 quarrels--Breaking an engagement                                     179

 CHAPTER XVII.

 WEDDING ETIQUETTE.

 Choice of bridemaids and groomsmen or ushers--The bridal costume
 Costumes of bridegroom and ushers--Presents of the bride and
 bridegroom--Ceremonials at church when there are no bridemaids or
 ushers--Invitations to the ceremony alone--The latest
 ceremonials--Weddings at home--The evening wedding--"At home"
 receptions--Calls--The wedding ring--Marriage ceremonials of a
 widow--Form of invitations to a reception--Duties of invited guests--Of
 bridemaids and ushers--Bridal presents--Master of ceremonies--Wedding
 fees--Congratulations--The bridal tour                               194

 CHAPTER XVIII.

 HOME LIFE AND ETIQUETTE.

 Home the woman's kingdom--Home companionship--Conduct of husband and
 wife--Duties of the wife to her husband--The wife a helpmate--The
 husband's duties                                                     208

 CHAPTER XIX.

 HOME TRAINING.

 First lessons learned at home--Parents should set good examples to their
 children--Courtesies in the home circle--Early moral training of
 children--The formation of their habits--Politeness at home--Train
 children for some occupation--Bad temper--Selfishness--Home maxims   216

 CHAPTER XX.

 HOME CULTURE.

 Cultivate moral courage--The pernicious influence of
 indolence--Self-respect--Result of good breeding at home--Fault-finding
 and grumbling--Family jars not to be made public--Conflicting
 interests--Religious education--Obedience--Influence of example--The
 influence of books                                                   225

 CHAPTER XXI.

 WOMAN'S HIGHER EDUCATION.

 Its importance--Train young women to some occupation--Education of girls
 too superficial--An education appropriate to each sex--Knowledge of the
 laws of health needed by women--Idleness the source of all misery--A
 spirit of independence--Health and life dependent upon a higher
 culture--Cultivation of the moral sense                              233

 CHAPTER XXII.

 THE LETTER WRITER.

 Letter writing is an indication of good breeding--Requirements for
 correct writing--Anonymous letters--Note paper to be used--Forms of
 letters and notes--Forms of addressing notes and letters--Forms of
 signature--Letters of introduction--When to be given--Notes of
 invitation and replies thereto--Acceptances and regrets--Formal
 invitations must be answered--Letters of friendship--Love
 letters--Business letters and correspondence--Form of letter requesting
 employment--Regarding the character of a servant--Forms for notes,
 drafts, bills and receipts                                           242

 CHAPTER XXIII.

 GENERAL RULES TO GOVERN CONDUCT.

 Attention to the young in society--Gracefulness of carriage--Attitude,
 coughing, sneezing, etc.--Anecdotes, puns, etc.--A sweet and pure
 breath--Smoking--A good listener--Give precedence to others--Be moderate
 in speaking--Singing and playing in society--Receiving and making
 presents--Governing our moods--A lady driving with a gentleman--An
 invitation cannot be recalled--Avoid talking of personalities--Shun gossip
 and tale bearing--Removing the hat--Intruding on privacy--Politeness
 --Adapting yourself to others--Contradicting--A woman's good name
 --Expressing unfavorable opinions--Vulgarities--Miscellaneous rules
 governing conduct--Washington's maxims                               266

 CHAPTER XXIV.

 ANNIVERSARY WEDDINGS.

 How and when they are celebrated--The paper, cotton and leather
 weddings--The wooden wedding--The tin wedding--The crystal wedding--The
 silver wedding--The golden wedding--The diamond wedding--Presents at
 anniversary weddings--Forms of invitations, etc.                     285

 CHAPTER XXV.

 BIRTHS AND CHRISTENINGS.

 Naming the child--The christening--Godparents or sponsors--Presents from
 godparents--The ceremony--The breakfast--Christening gifts--The hero of
 the day--Fees                                                        291

 CHAPTER XXVI

 FUNERALS.

 Death notices and funeral invitations--Arrangement for the funeral--The
 house of mourning--Conducting the funeral services--The pall-bearers
 --Order of the procession--Floral and other decorations--Calls upon the
 bereaved family--Seclusion of the family                             296

 CHAPTER XXVII.

 ETIQUETTE AT WASHINGTON.

 Social duties required of the President and his family--Receptions at
 the White House--Order of official rank--Duties required of members of
 the cabinet and their families--How to address officials--The first to
 visit                                                                303

 CHAPTER XXVIII.

 ETIQUETTE OF FOREIGN COURTS.

 Foreign titles--Royalty--The nobility--The gentry--Esquires--Imperial
 rank--European titles--Presentation at the court of St. James--Those
 eligible and ineligible for presentation--Preliminaries--Presentation
 costumes                                                             308

 CHAPTER XXIX.

 BUSINESS.

 The example of a merchant prince--Keep your temper--Honesty the best
 policy--Form good habits--Breaking an appointment--Prompt payment of
 bills, notes and drafts--General suggestions                         315

 CHAPTER XXX.

 DRESS.

 Requirements for dressing well--Perils of the love of dress to weak
 minds--Consistency in dress--Extravagance--Indifference to
 dress--Appropriate dress--The wearing of gloves--Evening or full dress
 for gentlemen--Morning dress for gentlemen--Evening or full dress for
 ladies--Ball dresses--The full dinner dress--For receiving and making
 morning calls--Morning dress for street--Carriage dress--Promenade dress
 and walking suit--Opera dress--The riding dress--For women of
 business--Ordinary evening dress--For a social party--Dress for the
 theater, lecture and concert--Archery, croquet and skating
 costumes--Bathing dress--For traveling--The bridal costume--Dress of
 bridemaids--At wedding receptions--Mourning dress--How long mourning
 should be worn                                                      320

 CHAPTER XXXI.

 COLORS AND THEIR HARMONY IN DRESS.

 The proper arrangement of colors--The colors adapted to different
 persons--Material for dress--Size in relation to color and dress--A list
 of colors that harmonize                                             341

 CHAPTER XXXII.

 THE TOILET.

 Importance of neatness and cleanliness--Perfumes--The bath--The teeth
 and their care--The skin--The eyes, eyelashes and brows--The hair and
 beard--The hands and feet                                            351

 CHAPTER XXXIII.

 TOILET RECIPES.

 To remove freckles, pimples and sunburn--To beautify the complexion--To
 prevent the hair falling out--Pomades and hair oils--Sea foam or dry
 shampoo--To prevent the hair turning gray--To soften the skin--To
 cleanse the teeth--Remedy for chapped hands--For corns and chilblains,
 etc.                                                                 372

 CHAPTER XXXIV.

 SPORTS, GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS.

 Archery and its practice--Lawn Tennis--Boating--Picnics--Private
 Theatricals--Card playing                                            398

 CHAPTER XXXV.

 LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS,                                                 410

 CHAPTER XXXVI.

 PRECIOUS STONES,                                                     423

CHAPTER I.

Introductory.

          "Ingenious Art with her expressive face,
           Steps forth to fashion and refine the race."--COWPER.

A knowledge of etiquette has been defined to be a knowledge of the rules of society at its
best. These rules have been the outgrowth of centuries of civilization, had their foundation
in friendship and love of man for his fellow man--the vital principles of Christianity--and
are most powerful agents for promoting peace, harmony and good will among all people who are
enjoying the blessings of more advanced civilized government. In all civilized countries the
influence of the best society is of great importance to the welfare and prosperity of the nation,
but in no country is the good influence of the most refined society more powerfully felt than
in our own, "the land of the future, where mankind may plant, essay, and resolve all social
problems." These rules make social intercourse more agreeable, and facilitate hospitalities,
when all members of society hold them as binding rules and faithfully regard their observance.
They are to society what our laws are to the people as a political body, and to disregard them
will give rise to constant misunderstandings, engender ill-will, and beget bad morals and bad
manners.

Says an eminent English writer: "On manners, refinement, rules of good breeding, and even the
forms of etiquette, we are forever talking, judging our neighbors severely by the breach of
traditionary and unwritten laws, and choosing our society and even our friends by the touchstone
of courtesy." The Marchioness de Lambert expressed opinions which will be endorsed by the best
bred people everywhere when she wrote to her son: "Nothing is more shameful than a voluntary
rudeness. Men have found it necessary as well as agreeable to unite for the common good; they
have made laws to restrain the wicked; they have agreed among themselves as to the duties of
society, and have annexed an honorable character to the practice of those duties. He is the
honest man who observes them with the most exactness, and the instances of them multiply in
proportion to the degree of nicety of a person's honor."

Originally a gentleman was defined to be one who, without any title of nobility, wore a coat
of arms. And the descendants of many of the early colonists preserve with much pride and care
the old armorial bearings which their ancestors brought with them from their homes in the mother
country. Although despising titles and ignoring the rights of kings, they still clung to the
"grand old name of gentleman." But race is no longer the only requisite for a gentleman, nor
will race united with learning and wealth make a man a gentleman, unless there are present
the kind and gentle qualities of the heart, which find expression in the principles of the
Golden Rule. Nor will race, education and wealth combined make a woman a true lady if she shows
a want of refinement and consideration of the feelings of others.

Good manners are only acquired by education and observation, followed up by habitual practice
at home and in society, and good manners reveal to us the lady and the gentleman. He who does
not possess them, though he bear the highest title of nobility, cannot expect to be called
a gentleman; nor can a woman, without good manners, aspire to be considered a lady by ladies.
Manners and morals are indissolubly allied, and no society can be good where they are bad.
It is the duty of American women to exercise their influence to form so high a standard of
morals and manners that the tendency of society will be continually upwards, seeking to make
it the best society of any nation.

As culture is the first requirement of good society, so self-improvement should be the aim
of each and all of its members. Manners will improve with the cultivation of the mind, until
the pleasure and harmony of social intercourse are no longer marred by the introduction of
discordant elements, and they only will be excluded from the best society whose lack of education
and whose rude manners will totally unfit them for its enjoyments and appreciation. Good manners
are even more essential to harmony in society than a good education, and may be considered
as valuable an acquisition as knowledge in any form.

The principles of the Golden Rule, "whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even
so to them," is the basis of all true politeness--principles which teach us to forget ourselves,
to be kind to our neighbors, and to be civil even to our enemies. The appearance of so being
and doing is what society demands as good manners, and the man or woman trained to this mode
of life is regarded as well-bred. The people, thus trained, are easy to get along with, for
they are as quick to make an apology when they have been at fault, as they are to accept one
when it is made. "The noble-hearted only understand the noble-hearted."

In a society where the majority are rude from the thoughtfulness of ignorance, or remiss from
the insolence of bad breeding, the iron rule, "Do unto others, as they do unto you," is more
often put into practice than the golden one. The savages know nothing of the virtues of forgiveness,
and regard those who are not revengeful as wanting in spirit; so the ill-bred do not understand
undeserved civilities extended to promote the general interests of society, and to carry out
the injunction of the Scriptures to strive after the things that make for peace.

Society is divided into sets, according to their breeding. One set may be said to have no breeding
at all, another to have a little, another more, and another enough; and between the first and
last of these, there are more shades than in the rainbow. Good manners are the same in essence
everywhere--at courts, in fashionable society, in literary circles, in domestic life--they
never change, but social observances, customs and points of etiquette, vary with the age and
with the people.

A French writer has said: "To be truly polite, it is necessary to be, at the same time, good,
just, and generous. True politeness is the outward visible sign of those inward spiritual graces
called modesty, unselfishness and generosity. The manners of a gentleman are the index of his
soul. His speech is innocent, because his life is pure; his thoughts are right, because his
actions are upright; his bearing is gentle, because his feelings, his impulses, and his training
are gentle also. A gentleman is entirely free from every kind of pretence. He avoids homage,
instead of exacting it. Mere ceremonies have no attraction for him. He seeks not to say any
civil things, but to do them. His hospitality, though hearty and sincere, will be strictly
regulated by his means. His friends will be chosen for their good qualities and good manners;
his servants for their truthfulness and honesty; his occupations for their usefulness, their
gracefulness or their elevating tendencies, whether moral, mental or political."

In the same general tone does Ruskin describe a gentleman, when he says: "A gentleman's first
characteristic is that fineness of structure in the body which renders it capable of the most
delicate sensation, and of that structure in the mind which renders it capable of the most
delicate sympathies--one may say, simply, 'fineness of nature.' This is, of course, compatible
with the heroic bodily strength and mental firmness; in fact, heroic strength is not conceivable
without such delicacy. Elephantine strength may drive its way through a forest and feel no
touch of the boughs, but the white skin of Homer's Atrides would have felt a bent rose-leaf,
yet subdue its feelings in the glow of battle and behave itself like iron. I do not mean to
call an elephant a vulgar animal; but if you think about him carefully, you will find that
his non-vulgarity consists in such gentleness as is possible to elephantine nature--not in
his insensitive hide nor in his clumsy foot, but in the way he will lift his foot if a child
lies in his way, and in his sensitive trunk and still more sensitive mind and capability of
pique on points of honor. Hence it will follow that one of the probable signs of high breeding
in men generally, will be their kindness and mercifulness, these always indicating more or
less firmness of make in the mind."

Can any one fancy what our society might be, if all its members were perfect gentlemen and
true ladies, if all the inhabitants of the earth were kind-hearted; if, instead of contending
with the faults of our fellows we were each to wage war against our own faults? Every one needs
to guard constantly against the evil from within as well as from without, for as has been truly
said, "a man's greatest foe dwells in his own heart."

A recent English writer says: "Etiquette may be defined as the minor morality of life. No observances,
however minute, that tend to spare the feelings of others, can be classed under the head of
trivialities; and politeness, which is but another name for general amiability, will oil the
creaking wheels of life more effectually than any of those unguents supplied by mere wealth
and station." While the social observances, customs and rules which have grown up are numerous,
and some perhaps considered trivial, they are all grounded upon principles of kindness to one
another, and spring from the impulses of a good heart and from friendly feelings. The truly
polite man acts from the highest and noblest ideas of what is right.

CHAPTER II.

Our Manners.

No one quality of the mind and heart is more important as an element conducive to worldly success
than civility--that feeling of kindness and love for our fellow-beings which is expressed in
pleasing manners. Yet how many of our young men, with an affected contempt for the forms and
conventionalities of life, assume to despise those delicate attentions, that exquisite tenderness
of thought and manner, that mark the true gentleman.

MANNERS AS AN ELEMENT OF SUCCESS.

History repeats, over and over again, examples showing that it is the bearing of a man toward
his fellow-men which, more than any other one quality of his nature, promotes or retards his
advancement in life. The success or failure of one's plans have often turned upon the address
and manner of the man. Though there are a few people who can look beyond the rough husk or
shell of a fellow-being to the finer qualities hidden within, yet the vast majority, not so
keen-visaged nor tolerant, judge a person by his appearance and demeanor, more than by his
substantial character. Experience of every day life teaches us, if we would but learn, that
civility is not only one of the essentials of high success, but that it is almost a fortune
of itself, and that he who has this quality in perfection, though a blockhead, is almost sure
to succeed where, without it, even men of good ability fail.

A good manner is the best letter of recommendation among strangers. Civility, refinement and
gentleness are passports to hearts and homes, while awkwardness, coarseness and gruffness are
met with locked doors and closed hearts.

In every class of life, in all professions and occupations, good manners are necessary to success.
The business man has no stock-in-trade that pays him better than a good address. If the retail
dealer wears his hat on his head in the presence of ladies who come to buy of him, if he does
not see that the heavy door of his shop is opened and closed for them, if he seats himself
in their presence, if he smokes a pipe or cigar, or has a chew of tobacco in his mouth, while
talking with them, or is guilty of any of the small incivilities of life, they will not be
apt to make his shop a rendezvous, no matter how attractive the goods he displays.

A telling preacher in his opening remarks gains the good will of his hearers, and makes them
feel both that he has something to say, and that he can say it, by his manner. The successful
medical man inspires in his patients belief in his sympathy, and confidence in his skill, by
his manner. The lawyer, in pleading a case before a jury, and remembering that the passions
and prejudices of the jurymen govern them to as great an extent as pure reason, must not be
forgetful of his manner, if he would bring them to his own way of thinking. And how often does
the motto, "Manners make the man," govern both parties in matters of courtship, the lady giving
preference to him whose manners indicate a true nobility of the soul, and the gentleman preferring
her who displays in her manner a gentleness of spirit.

MANNER AN INDEX OF CHARACTER.

A rude person, though well meaning, is avoided by all. Manners, in fact, are minor morals;
and a rude person is often assumed to be a bad person. The manner in which a person says or
does a thing, furnishes a better index of his character than what he does or says, for it is
by the incidental expression given to his thoughts and feelings, by his looks, tones and gestures,
rather than by his words and deeds, that we prefer to judge him, for the reason that the former
are involuntary. The manner in which a favor is granted or a kindness done, often affects us
more than the deed itself. The deed may have been prompted by vanity, pride, or some selfish
motive or interest; the warmth or coldness with which the person who has done it speaks to
you, or grasps your hand, is less likely to deceive. The manner of doing any thing, it has
been truly said, is that which stamps its life and character on any action. A favor may be
performed so grudgingly as to prevent any feeling of obligation, or it may be refused so courteously
as to awaken more kindly feelings than if it had been ungraciously granted.

THE TRUE GENTLEMAN.

Politeness is benevolence in small things. A true gentleman must regard the rights and feelings
of others, even in matters the most trivial. He respects the individuality of others, just
as he wishes others to respect his own. In society he is quiet, easy, unobtrusive, putting
on no airs, nor hinting by word or manner that he deems himself better, or wiser, or richer
than any one about him. He never boasts of his achievements, or fishes for compliments by affecting
to underrate what he has done. He is distinguished, above all things, by his deep insight and
sympathy, his quick perception of, and prompt attention to, those small and apparently insignificant
things that may cause pleasure or pain to others. In giving his opinions he does not dogmatize;
he listens patiently and respectfully to other men, and, if compelled to dissent from their
opinions, acknowledges his fallibility and asserts his own views in such a manner as to command
the respect of all who hear him. Frankness and cordiality mark all his intercourse with his
fellows, and, however high his station, the humblest man feels instantly at ease in his presence.

THE TRUE LADY.

Calvert says: "Ladyhood is an emanation from the heart subtilized by culture;" giving as two
requisites for the highest breeding, transmitted qualities and the culture of good training.
He continues: "Of the higher type of ladyhood may always be said what Steele said of Lady Elizabeth
Hastings, 'that unaffected freedom and conscious innocence gave her the attendance of the graces
in all her actions.' At its highest, ladyhood implies a spirituality made manifest in poetic
grace. From the lady there exhales a subtle magnetism. Unconsciously she encircles herself
with an atmosphere of unruffled strength, which, to those who come into it, gives confidence
and repose. Within her influence the diffident grow self-possessed, the impudent are checked,
the inconsiderate are admonished; even the rude are constrained to be mannerly, and the refined
are perfected; all spelled, unawares, by the flexible dignity, the commanding gentleness, the
thorough womanliness of her look, speech and demeanor. A sway is this, purely spiritual. Every
sway, every legitimate, every enduring sway is spiritual; a regnancy of light over obscurity,
of right over brutality. The only real gains ever made are spiritual gains--a further subjection
of the gross to the incorporeal, of body to soul, of the animal to the human. The finest and
most characteristic acts of a lady involve a spiritual ascension, a growing out of herself.
In her being and bearing, patience, generosity, benignity are the graces that give shape to
the virtues of truthfulness."

Here is the test of true ladyhood. Whenever the young find themselves in the company of those
who do not make them feel at ease, they should know that they are not in the society of true
ladies and true gentlemen, but of pretenders; that well-bred men and women can only feel at
home in the society of the well-bred.

THE IMPORTANCE OF TRIFLES.

Some people are wont to depreciate these kind and tender qualities as trifles; but trifles,
it must be remembered, make up the aggregate of human life. The petty incivilities, slight
rudenesses and neglects of which men are guilty, without thought, or from lack of foresight
or sympathy, are often remembered, while the great acts performed by the same persons are often
forgotten. There is no society where smiles, pleasant looks and animal spirits are not welcomed
and deemed of more importance than sallies of wit, or refinements of understanding. The little
civilities, which form the small change of life may appear separately of little moment, but,
like the spare pennies which amount to such large fortunes in a lifetime, they owe their importance
to repetition and accumulation.

VALUE OF PLEASING MANNERS.

