THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XVII, NO. 476.] SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD BYRON'S PALACE, AT VENICE.

Scores of readers who have been journeying through Mr. Moore's
concluding portion of the Life of Lord Byron, will thank us for
the annexed Illustration. It presents a view of the palace occupied by
Lord Byron during his residence at Venice. When, after his unfortunate
marriage, he left England, "in search of that peace of mind which was
never destined to be his," Venice naturally occurred to him as a place
where, for a time at least, he should find a suitable residence. He had,
in his own language, "loved it from his boyhood;" and there was a poetry
connected with its situation, its habits, and its history, which excited
both his imagination and his curiosity. At the same time, the melancholy
with which his heart was filled was soothed and cherished by the
associations which every object in Venice inspired. The prospects of
dominion subdued, of a high spirit humbled, of splendour tarnished, of
palaces sinking into ruins, was but too faithfully in accordance with
the dark and mournful mind which the poet bore within him.
  States fall, hearts fade--but Nature doth not die,
  Nor yet forget how Venice once was dear,
  The pleasant place of all festivity,
  The revel of the earth, the masque of Italy.

  But unto us she hath a spell beyond
  Her name in story, and her long array
  Of mighty shadows, whose dim forms despond
  Above the dogeless city's vanish'd sway;
  Ours is a trophy which will not decay
  With the Rialto; Shylock and the Moor,
  And Pierre, cannot be swept or worn away--
  The keystones of the arch! though all were o'er,
  For us repeopled were the solitary shore.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Thus, Venice, if no stronger claim were thine,
  Were all thy proud historic deeds forgot,
  Thy choral memory of the Bard divine,
  Thy love of Tasso, should have cut the knot
  Which ties thee to thy tyrants; and thy lot
  Is shameful to the nations,--most of all,
  Albion! to thee; the Ocean queen should not
  Abandon Ocean's children; in the fall
  Of Venice think of thine, despite thy watery wall.

  I can repeople with the past--and of
  The present there is still for eye, and thought,
  And meditation chasten'd down, enough;
  And more, it may be, than I hoped or sought;
  And of the happiest moments which were wrought
  Within the web of my existence, some
  From thee, fair Venice! have their colours caught:
  There are some feelings Time can not benumb,
  Nor Torture shake, or mine would now be cold and dumb.

Again, in the notes to Childe Harold, where these spirit-breathing lines occur:

"The population of Venice, at the end of the 17th century amounted to nearly two hundred thousand
souls. At the last census, taken two years ago, it was no more than about one hundred and three
thousand, and it diminishes daily. The commerce and the official employments, which were to
be the unexhausted source of Venetian grandeur, have both expired. Most of the patrician mansions
are deserted, and would gradually disappear, had not the government, alarmed by the demolition
of seventy-two, during the last two years, expressly forbidden this sad resource of poverty.
Many remnants of the Venetian nobility are now scattered and confounded with the wealthier
Jews upon the banks of the Brenta, whose palladian palaces, have sunk, or are sinking, in the
general decay. Of the 'gentil uomo Veneto,' the name is still known, and that is all. He is
but the shadow of his former self, but he is polite and kind. The present race cannot be thought
to regret the loss of their aristocratical forms, and too despotic government--they think only
on their vanished independence. They pine away at the remembrance, and on this subject suspend
for a moment their gay good humour. Venice may be said, in the words of the scripture, 'to
die daily;' and so general and so apparent is the decline, as to become painful to a stranger,
not reconciled to the sight of a whole nation, expiring as it were before his eyes. So artificial
a creation having lost that principle which called it into life and supported its existence,
must fall to pieces at once, and sink more rapidly than it rose."

Captain Medwin relates Lord Byron's detestation of Venice in unmeasured terms. He likewise
tells of his Lordship performing here one of those aquatic feats in which he greatly prided
himself; and the Countess Albrizzi mentions a similar incident: "He was seen, on leaving a
palace situated on the grand canal, instead of entering his gondola, to throw himself, with
his clothes on, into the water, and swim to his house."

The Countess, who became acquainted with his Lordship at Venice, also narrates a few particulars
of the mode in which he passed his time in that city: Amongst his peculiar habits was that
of never showing himself on foot. During the summer, Lord Byron enjoyed the exercise of riding
in the evening. "No sunsets," said he, "are to be compared with those of Venice--they are too
gorgeous for any painter, and defy any poet."

    [1] Letter-press of the superb "Landscape Annual" for the present
        year, whence our Engraving is transferred. The Life of the noble
        Poet at Venice cannot be better described than in his own
        Letters, for which see pages 43-82 of the present volume.

    [2] From some passages in his Lordship's Letters, this would not
        appear correct.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATURE REVIVING.

(For the Mirror.)

  The rills run free, and fetterless, and strong,
  Rejoicing that their icy bonds are broke,
  The breeze is burthen'd with the grateful song
  Of birds innumerous: who from torpor woke,
  Cleave the fine air with renovated stroke.
  The teeming earth flings up its budding store
  Of herbs, and flow'rs, escaping from the yoke.
  That Winter's spell had cast around; and o'er
  The clear and sun-lit sky, dark clouds are seen no more.

  In woody dells, by shallow brooks that stand,
  The modest violet, and primrose pale,
  (Like youth just bursting into life,) expand,
  And cast their perfumes down the dewy vale,
  Till laden seems each bland, yet searching gale
  That fans the cheek with odours of the Spring.
  All living nature rushes to inhale:
  As if this universal blossoming
  Too soon would fade away, or instantly take wing.

  What beauty in the swelling upland green,
  On which the fleecy flock in sportive play,
  And mirth, and gambol innocent, are seen.
  What pleasure through the scented copse to stray,
  And hear the stock dove coo its am'rous lay,
  Or climb the steep hill's side, beneath whose height
  Dashing afar, like drifted snow, their spray;
  The waves of ocean with an angry might,
  Flash in the purple dawn, majestically bright.

  Yet 'midst this union of benignant tones,
  How fares it with the reasonable part
  Of God's created glories? Man disowns
  Not to give thanks; but skilled by human art
  To screen the passions of a grateful heart;
  He walks encircled by philosophy, whose creed
  Allows no outward semblance, to impart
  One trace of joyousness that may exceed
  Those coldly rigid rules on which it loves to feed.

  And therefore balmy spring, with all its joys,
  Its pomp of early leaves, and thrilling lays,
  And ceaseless chime of song (that never cloys,
  Altho' the winds be redolent of praise.)
  Wakes not in man that stupor of amaze,
  Bird, beast, and plant, in universal choir,
  Pay to Almighty in a thousand ways,
  That sterner reason's votaries would flout,
  Giving their tardy homage in mistrust and doubt.

  Not so with me. I never feel the spring
  Come on in beauty, but my swelling soul
  Seems ready in its gush of joy, to fling
  All trammels off, that would in aught control
  Its wild pulsation. O'er it feelings roll
  Too mighty for expression; and each sense
  Appears to be commingled in one whole;
  Whose sum of ecstacy is so intense,
  It finds no home to garner it, but in omnipotence.

J.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLISH PATRIOT'S APPEAL.

  CAMPBELL.

  Have we not proved our country's worth--the country of the free?
  Have we not raised the tyrant's foot--and struck for liberty--
  The giant foot that on us fell, in war's tremendous fall--
  The mighty weight that bore us down and held our arms in thrall?

  Have we not risked our homes, our all, at Freedom's glorious shrine,
  And dared the vengeance of the Russ, whose sway is yclept divine?
  And have we not appealed to arms--our last and dearest right!
  And is not ours a sacred cause, a just and holy fight?

  Yes, on Sarmatia's bleeding form Oppression's fetters rang,
  And Liberty's last dying dirge the Northern trumpet sang:
  Our hopes were buried in the grave where Kosciusko lies;
  There came not friendship then from earth--nor mercy from the skies!

  But Heaven has roused the Polish slave and bid him rend his chains,
  And now we rank among the free--"Our country yet remains:"
  Again we seek our native rights by God and Nature given--
  A people's right unto their soil from us unjustly riven.

  We call upon the honoured brave--the free of every land--
  For succour from the powerful--for aid from every strand:
  We ask for every good man's prayer--we call for help on high;
  Ye shades of Poland's slaughtered sons, look on propitiously.

  We fight the fight of nations--bear witness field and storm
  To our desert hereafter?  Now we are but braggarts warm--
  But by our honest cause, we swear, ere they our land retake,
  Each town shall he a charnel tomb--each field a gory lake!

CYMBELINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF PARROTS.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Who taught the Parrot human notes to try?
  'Twas witty want, fierce hunger to appease."

  DRYDEN.

A parrot belonging to the sister of the Comte de Buffon (says Bingley,) "would frequently speak
to himself, and seem to fancy that some one addressed him. He often asked for his paw, and
answered by holding it up. Though he liked to hear the voice of children, he seemed to have
an antipathy to them; he pursued them, and bit them till he drew blood. He had also his objects
of attachment; and though his choice was not very nice, it was constant. He was excessively
fond of the cook-maid; followed her everywhere, sought for, and seldom missed finding her.
If she had been some time out of his sight, the bird climbed with his bill and claws to her
shoulders, and lavished on her caresses. His fondness had all the marks of close and warm friendship.
The girl happened to have a very sore finger, which was tedious in healing, and so painful
as to make her scream. While she uttered her moans the parrot never left her chamber. The first
thing he did every day, was to pay her a visit; and this tender condolence lasted the whole
time of the cure, when he again returned to his former calm and settled attachment. Yet this
strong predilection for the girl seems to have been more directed to her office in the kitchen,
than to her person; for, when another cook-maid succeeded her, the parrot showed the same degree
of fondness[3] to the new comer, the very first day."

Bingley also says, "Willoughby tells us of a parrot, which when a person said to it, 'laugh,
Poll, laugh,' laughed accordingly, and the instant after screamed out, 'What a fool to make
me laugh.' Another which had grown old with its master, shared with him the infirmities of
age. Being accustomed to hear scarcely anything but the words, 'I am sick;' when a person asked
it, 'How do you do, Poll? how d'ye do?'--'I am sick,' it replied, in a doleful tone, stretching
itself along, 'I am sick.'"

Goldsmith says, "That a parrot belonging to King Henry VIII. having been kept in a room next
the Thames, in his palace at Westminster, had learned to repeat many sentences from the boatmen
and passengers. One day sporting on its perch, it unluckily fell into the water. The bird had
no sooner discovered its situation, than it called out aloud, 'A boat, twenty pounds for a
boat.' A waterman happening to be near the place where the parrot was floating, immediately
took it up, and restored it to the king; demanding, as the bird was a favourite, that he should
be paid the reward that it had called out. This was refused; but it was agreed, that as the
parrot had offered a reward, the man should again refer to its determination for the sum he
was to receive. 'Give the knave a groat,' the bird screamed aloud, the instant the reference
was made."

Mr. Locke, in his "Essay on the Human Understanding," has related an anecdote concerning parrots,
of which (says Bingley) however incredible it may appear to some, he seems to have had so much
evidence, as at least to have believed it himself. It is taken from a writer of some celebrity;
the author of Memoirs of what passed in Christendom from 1672 to 1679. If the story is devoid
of foundation, the prince must have been deceived, for there is not the least doubt that he
believed it."

Parrots not only discourse, but also mimic gestures and actions. Scaliger saw one that performed
the dance of the Savoyards, at the same time that it repeated their song.

P.T.W.

    [3] Pot or kitchen love.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DITTY BY QUEEN ELIZABETH.

(For the Mirror.)

"I find, (says Puttenham,) none example in English metre so well
mayntayning this figure (Exargasia, or the Gorgeous) as that
dittie of her Majestie Queen Elizabeth's own making, passing sweete and
harmonical; which figure being, as his very original name purporteth,
the most beautiful and gorgeous of all others, it asketh in reason to be
reserved for a last compliment, and disciphered by the arte of a ladies
penne (herself being the most beautifull or rather beautie of Queens.)
And this was the occasion: Our Sovereign lady perceiving how the Queen
of Scots residence within this realme as to great libertie and ease (as
were scarce meete for so great and dangerous a prisoner,) bred secret
factions amongst her people, and made many of the nobility incline to
favour her partie (some of them desirous of innovation in the state,
others aspiring to greater fortunes by her libertie and life;) the
Queene our Sovereigne Lady, to declare that she was nothing ignorant
of those secret practices (though she had long, with great wisdom
and patience, dissembled it,) writeth that dittie, most sweet and
sententious; not hiding from all such aspiring minds the danger of their
ambition and disloyaltie, which afterwards fell out most truly by the
exemplary chastisements of sundry persons, who in favour of the said
Queen of Scots, declining from her Majestie, sought to interrupt the
quiet of the realm by many evill and undutifull practyses."
  But clouds of tois untried do choake aspiring mindes,
  Which turn'd to rain of late repent by course of changed windes.
  The toppe of hope suppos'd, the root of ruth will be
  And fruitless all their grafted guiles, as shortly ye shall see.
  No forreine banish'd wight shall ancre in this port;
  Our realme it brooks no stranger's force, let them elsewhere resort.
  Our rusty sword with rust shall first his edge employ,
  To polle their toppes that seeke such change, and gape for joy.

J.G.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUARTERLY REVIEW.  No. 87.

Character of Mr. Canning.

There have been some who equalled him in acquirements--many who have possessed sounder judgment
and sounder principles; but never was there in any legislative assembly, a person whose talents
were more peculiarly and perfectly adapted to the effect which he intended to produce. With
all the advantages of voice and person--with all the graces of delivery--with all the charms
which affability and good-nature impart to genius, he had wit at will, as well as eloquence
at command. Being frank and sincere in all his political opinions, he had all that strength
in his oratory which arises from sincerity, although in his political conduct the love of intrigue
was one of his besetting sins. By an unhappy perversion of mind it seemed as if he would always
rather have obtained his end by a crooked path than by a straight one; but his speeches had
nothing of this tortuosity; there was nothing covert in them, nothing insidious--no double-dealing,
no disguise. His argument went always directly to the point, and with so well-judged an aim
that he was never (like Burke) above his mark--rarely, if ever, below it, or beside it. When,
in the exultant consciousness of personal superiority, as well as the strength of his cause,
he trampled upon his opponents, there was nothing coarse, nothing virulent, nothing contumelious,
nothing ungenerous in his triumph. Whether he addressed the Liverpool electors, or the House
of Commons, it was with the same ease, the same adaptation to his auditory, the same unrivalled
dexterity, the same command of his subject and his hearers, and the same success. His only
faults as a speaker were committed when, under the inebriating influence of popular applause,
he was led away by the heat and passion of the moment. A warm friend, a placable adversary,
a scholar, a man of letters, kind in his nature, affable in his manners, easy of access, playful
in conversation, delightful in society--rarely have the brilliant promises of boyhood been
so richly fulfilled as in Mr. Canning.

Political Economists

Are the most daring of all legislators, just (it has been well said) as "cockney equestrians
are the most fearless of all riders." But the confidence with which they propose their theories
is less surprising than the facility with which their propositions have been entertained, and
their extravagant pretensions admitted. We need not marvel at the success of quackery in medicine
and theology, when we look at the career of the St. John Longs in political life. From the
time in which the bullion question came out of Pandora's Scotch mull, parliament has been wearied
with the interminable discussions which they have raised there. Youths who were fresh from
college, and men with or without education, who were "in the wane of their wits and infancy
of their discretion," imbibe the radiant darkness of Jeremy Bentham, and forthwith set themselves
up as the lights of their generation. No professors, even in the subtlest ages of scholastic
philosophy, were ever more successful in muddying what they found clear, and perplexing what
is in itself intelligible. What are wages?--this, we are told, is the most difficult and the
most important of all the branches of political economy, and this, we are also told, has been
obscured by ambiguities and fallacies. What is rent? What is value? Upon these questions, and
such as these, which no man of sincere understanding ever proposed to himself or others, they
discuss and dilate with as much ardour and to as little effect, as the old philosophers disputed
upon the elements of the material creation; bringing to the discussion intellects of the same
kind, though as far below them in degree as in the dignity of the subjects upon which their
useless subtlety is expended. But it cannot be said of them, that they, when all is said,

  With much discretion and great want of wit,
  Leave all as wisely as it was at first;

for they mystify those readers who are not disgusted by such ineptitudes, perplex weak minds,
and pervert vain ones. Of such discussions it may be said with the son of Sirach, that "when
a man hath done, then he beginneth; and when he leaveth off, then he shall be doubtful."

Homer.

Seneca reckons among the idle questions, which were unworthy of wise men, the dispute whether
Homer wrote both the Iliad and Odyssey, and in what countries Ulysses wandered. Notwithstanding
the "Stoic's philosophic pride," these inquiries have still an interest to minds of the highest
order--such is the homage which genius extorts from the remotest countries and from the latest
ages. We noticed, in an article in our last Number, the curious fact of native youths in India
performing parts of Shakspeare, and thus on the shores of the Ganges countless minds are deriving
delight, perhaps improvement, from the careless and unlaboured verses of the light-hearted
Warwickshire deer-stealer. So, in this country, and over all the continent of Europe, which,
when the songs of Homer first gladdened the halls of the chieftains on the shores of the Aegean,
were vast unknown deserts, unpeopled, or wandered over by a few rude hunters; which, to the
Greeks, were regions of more than Cimmerian darkness, beyond the boundaries of the living world--men
of the loftiest and most powerful understanding are examining, and discussing, and disputing
the most minute points which may illustrate the poetry of the blind bard; scholars are elucidating,
antiquaries illustrating, philosophers reasoning upon, men of genius transfusing into their
native tongues, poets honouring with despairing emulation, the whole mind of educated man feeling
the transcendent power of the poet of the Iliad and Odyssey. Surely, the boasted triumph of
poetry over space and time is no daring hyperbole--surely, it is little more than the boasted
reality of truth.

Power of Memory.

Origin of the Homeric Poems.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBERALISM AND MUSIC.

It seems that the day is come again when musical airs are ranked in political importance with
proclamations, manifestoes, &c. Everybody knows the story of the Swiss hired troops, the Ranz
des Vaches, and the prohibition of this tune in France. A Polish air, the Dombrowski Mazourka,
which the regiment of General Szembek played on entering Warsaw, has been forbidden by the
Grand Duke Constantine, on pain of a penalty of 400 florins; the consequence of which is, that
it has become the outward and audible sign of patriotism in every part of Poland; just as the
Marseilles March and la Parisienne are in France and the Netherlands the signals of liberalism.
During Mr. Pitt's administration an organ grinder was committed to Newgate for playing "Ah!
ça ira" in the streets. This was a silly step; but the fellow excited little commiseration,
for the tune was the war-whoop of a few savages who were at that time deluging France with
blood. It affords another proof, however, of the power ascribed by statesmen to instrumental
music, uninterpreted by words in exciting ideas and producing associations.--Harmonicon, Feb. 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

TURKISH MUSICAL GUSTO.

A modern traveller informs us, that the band of an English ambassador at Constantinople once
performed a concert for the entertainment of the Sultan and his court. At the conclusion it
was asked, which of the pieces he preferred. He replied, the first, which was accordingly recommenced,
but stopped, as not being the right one. Others were tried with as little success, until at
length the band, almost in despair of discovering the favourite air, began tuning their instruments,
when his highness instantly exclaimed, "Inshallah, heaven be praised, that is it!" The Turkish
prince may be excused, when it is known that at the commemoration of Handel in 1784, Dr. Burney
thought the mere tuning of that host of instruments more gratifying than the ordinary performances
to which he had been accustomed.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

RODE, THE VIOLINIST.

In 1814, he was resident at Berlin, where he gave a concert for the benefit of the poor, and
on quitting that capital, returned to his native city, not again to quit it, except for one
ill-starred visit to Paris in 1818. This visit threw a fatal colouring over all the rest of
Rode's days, and probably contributed to shorten his life. For several years he had played
only in a small circle of admiring friends, who persuaded him (nothing loth to believe) that
his talents were still unabated. The habit of hearing no one but himself had extinguished emulation,
and deprived him of all means of comparison. Rode suddenly determined to re-appear in the musical
world, and on his arrival in Paris sought for opportunities of playing in private parties,
with as much eagerness as though he had still been a young man with a reputation to make. His
old admirers were at first delighted to greet him; but they soon saw with unfeigned regret
that he was compromising a great and well-earned name. His tone, once so pure and beautiful,
had become uncertain; his bow was as timid as his fingers, and he no longer dared to indulge
fearlessly the suggestions of his imagination; in short it was too apparent that, in spite
of his delusion, Rode's former confidence in himself was gone; and we know the importance of
that feeling of self-reliance which men of talent derive from the innate consciousness of their
own superiority: once destroyed, everything else vanishes with it. He was applauded; respect
for the last efforts of what had once been first-rate talent secured him that meed; but he
was applauded because his audience considered it a kind of duty, and without any symptoms of
enthusiasm. He felt the distinction; a dreadful light broke in upon him, and for the first
time he became conscious that he was no longer himself. The blow was the more severe as it
was unlooked for: he left Paris overwhelmed with grief; the check he had received preyed incessantly
on his mind and injured his health. A paralytic stroke toward the end of 1829 deprived him
of the use of one side and affected his intellect, in which state he languished for nearly
twelve months, till on the 25th of November, 1830, death relieved him from his sufferings.--From
a Memoir of Rode in the Harmonicon.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROGRESS OF SCIENCE.

It may be considered as sufficiently proved, that the sciences had not acquired any degree
of improvement until the eighth century before the Christian era; notwithstanding great nations
had been formed in several parts of the earth some centuries earlier. Fifteen hundred years
before Christ there were already four--the Indians, the Chinese, the Babylonians, and the Egyptians.--Cuvier.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THOMAS HOPE, ESQ.

(For the Mirror.)

We regret to record the death of this distinguished scholar and munificent patron of literature
and the fine arts. For some weeks past we have been awaiting the publication of his last work,
entitled, "An Essay on the Origin and Prospects of Man;" and after looking with this expectation
in the Times of Friday, the 4th, we there read the information of Mr. Hope's death, on the
2nd instant, at his house in Duchess-street.

Mr. Hope was a nephew of the opulent Amsterdam merchant of the same name. We are not aware
of his precise age, but should judge it must have verged on sixty. In early life he travelled
much, especially in the East; and few Englishmen have acquired better knowledge of the manners
and customs of that division of the world than had the subject of this memoir. His visits to
the European continent are of much more recent date. In its various academies of fine art his
name will long be cherished with grateful remembrance, since few men distributed their patronage
with so much munificence and judgment.

Possessing an ample fortune and exquisite taste, Mr. Hope judiciously applied his knowledge
of the fine arts to the internal decoration of houses: thus producing, in numberless instances,
the rare combination of splendour and convenience. On this subject, Mr. Hope published, in
1805, an illustrative folio work, entitled "Household Furniture and Internal Decorations."
He also published two very superb works on costume, entitled, "The Costumes of the Ancients,"
two vols. 8vo. 1809; and "Designs of Modern Costume," folio, 1812: in which he displayed high
classical attainments and love of the picturesque.

Mr. Hope, however, subsequently appeared before the literary world in a work which at once
places him in the highest list of eloquent writers and superior men--viz. Anastasius; or, the
Memoirs of a Modern Greek: published in the year 1819. There are, indeed, few books in the
English language which contain passages of greater power, feeling, and eloquence than this
work, which delineate frailty and vice with more energy and acuteness, or describe historical
scenes with such bold imagery and such glowing language. We remember the opinion of a writer
in the Edinburgh Review, soon after the publication of Anastasius. With a degree of pleasantry
and acumen peculiar to northern criticism, he asks, "Where has Mr. Hope hidden all his eloquence
and poetry up to this hour? How is it that he has, all of a sudden, burst out into descriptions
which would not disgrace the pen of Tacitus, and displayed a depth of feeling and vigour of
imagination which Lord Byron could not excel? We do not shrink from one syllable of this eulogy."
The subjects upon which Mr. Hope had previously written were not calculated to call forth his
eloquent feeling; and, such excellence was not expected from him, who, to use the harmless
satire of the Edinburgh reviewer, "meditated muffineers and planned pokers."

This was no praise of party: contemporary criticism universally allowed Anastasius to be a
work in which great and extraordinary talent is evinced. It abounds in sublime passages--in
sense--in knowledge of history, and in knowledge of human character;--and the rapid sale of
three editions has proved these superior characteristics to have been amply recognised by the
reading public. The work in its fourth edition still enjoys a good sale. In each reprint the
nicety of the writer is traceable: the corrections and alterations in the metaphysical portions
on such passages as illustrate points of character, are elaborated with exquisite skill, and
fresh turns of scholarly elegance are observable throughout each volume of the work. Memory
has probably in some instances enabled the author to re-touch his pictures of Eastern scenery,
and rearrange his grouping of particular incidents. What a delightful labour of leisure must
this have been for so ingenious a mind! One of his similes--a weeping lady's eyes compared
to violets steeped in dew--has never been out of our recollection; and one of his battle scenes
almost makes the reader imagine himself transfixed to the spot by a weapon of the contest.

Mr. Hope married, in 1806, the Hon. Louisa Beresford, daughter of the late Lord Decies, Archbishop
of Tuam, and sister of the present peer, by whom he has left three sons, the eldest of whom,
Mr. Henry Hope, was groom of the bedchamber to the late king, and recently took his seat in
parliament for the borough of West Looe. Of their highly-gifted and accomplished mother we
know many amiable traits; and, however bright may have been her fashionable splendour in high
life, it is more than counterbalanced by her active benevolence in the county, in visiting
the homes and relieving the distresses of the poor of the neighbourhood.

Of Mr. Hope's literary acquirements and his patronage of the liberal arts we have already spoken.
It is, however, grateful to be enabled to refer to special acts of such patronage. It should
not, therefore, be forgotten, that to the liberality of Mr. Hope, Thorwalsden, the celebrated
Danish sculptor, is chiefly indebted for a fostering introduction to the world: we have seen
at the liberal patron's seat, Deepdene, a stupendous boar of spotless marble, for which the
sculptor received a commission of one thousand guineas. Mr. Hope, too, was one of the earliest
of the patrons of Mr. George Dawe, R.A. In a memoir of this fortunate and distinguished painter
we find that "Andromache soliciting the Life of her Son," from a scene in the French play entitled
"Andromache," was purchased by Mr. Hope, "who, in the most liberal manner, marked his approbation
of Dawe's talents by favouring him with several commissions for family portraits, especially
a half-length of Mrs. Hope, with two of her children, and two whole-lengths of the lady singly."
To the useful as well as elegant arts Mr. Hope's encouragement was extended; and for the last
ten years he has filled the office of one of the Vice-presidents of the Society of Arts and
Sciences in the Adelphi.

Mr. Hope usually passed "the season" at his superb mansion in Duchess-street, Portland-place,
where he had assembled a valuable collection of works of art, altogether unrivalled, and comprising
paintings, antique statues, busts, vases, and other relics of antiquity, arranged in apartments,
the furniture and decorations of which were in general designed after classic models, by the
ingenious possessor himself. Among the sculpture is the exquisite Venus rising from the Bath,
by Canova. The whole of these valuables were open to the public, under certain restrictions,
during "the season." Mr. Hope likewise possessed one of the most delightful estates in the
county of Surrey--viz. the Deepdene, near Dorking, to which he annexed Chart Park, purchased
from the devisees of the late Sir Charles Talbot, Bart. On the last-mentioned estate is a spacious
mausoleum, erected by Mr. Hope about thirteen years since, and capable of containing upwards
of twenty bodies. Two of his sons, who died in their youth, are buried here.

In the retirement of the Deepdene, Mr. Hope passed much time in embellishing the mansion, and
improving the gardens, grounds, &c. "Here," observes the author of the Promenade round Dorking,
"I was much gratified with landscape gardening, the quiet of echoing dells, and the refreshing
coolness of caverns--all which combined to render this spot a kind of fairy region. Flower-gardens
laid out in parterres, with much taste, here mingle trim neatness with rude uncultivated nature,
in walks winding through plantations and woods, with ruined grottoes and hermitages, well adapted,
by their solitary situations, for study and reverie." Adjoining the mansion, Mr. Hope likewise
constructed a classical sculpture gallery, which he enriched with several antiques from his
town residence. Notwithstanding all these additions, we are bound to confess, that, compared
with the beauty of the situation, they were but unsuccessful efforts of art to embellish bountiful
Nature.

The conveniences of the Deepdene are upon a scale of magnificence similar to that of the mansion
in Duchess-street. Their present Majesties, before their accession, were occasional visiters
at the Deepdene; and upon the formation of the Queen's Household, Mrs. Hope was appointed a
Lady of the Bedchamber.

Few men, even in the philanthropic neighbourhood of Dorking, were more beloved than the late
Mr. Hope. His patronage by money and otherwise, was never vainly sought for a good object;
and with this high merit we close our humble tribute to his public and private excellence.

PHILO.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BACCHANALIAN SONG.

(From the "Noctes" of Blackwood.)

NORTH.--The air, you know, is my own, James. I shall sing it to-night to some beautiful words
by my friend Robert Folkestone Williams, written, he tells me, expressly for the Noctes.

  Oh! fill the wine-cup high,
    The sparkling liquor pour;
  For we will care and grief defy,
    They ne'er shall plague us more.
  And ere the snowy foam
    From off the wine departs,
  The precious draught shall find a home,
    A dwelling in our hearts.

  Though bright may be the beams
    That woman's eyes display;
  They are not like the ruby gleams
    That in our goblets play.
  For though surpassing bright
    Their brilliancy may be,
  Age dims the lustre of their light,
    But adds more worth to thee.

  Give me another draught,
    The sparkling, and the strong;
  He who would learn the poet craft--
    He who would shine in song--
  Should pledge the flowing bowl
    With warm and generous wine;
  'Twas wine that warm'd Anacreon's soul,
    And made his songs divine.

  And e'en in tragedy,
    Who lives that never knew
  The honey of the Attic Bee
    Was gather'd from thy dew?
  He of the tragic muse,
    Whose praises bards rehearse:
  What power but thine could e'er diffuse
    Such sweetness o'er his verse?

  Oh! would that I could raise
    The magic of that tongue;
  The spirit of those deathless lays,
    The Swan of Teios sung!
  Each song the bard has given,
    Its beauty and its worth,
  Sounds sweet as if a voice from heaven
    Was echoed upon earth.

  How mighty--how divine
    Thy spirit seemeth when
  The rich draught of the purple vine
    Dwelt in these godlike men.
  It made each glowing page,
    Its eloquence and truth,
  In the glory of their golden age,
    Outshine the fire of youth.

  Joy to the lone heart--joy
    To the desolate--oppress'd
  For wine can every grief destroy
    That gathers in the breast.
  The sorrows, and the care,
    That in our hearts abide,
  'Twill chase them from their dwellings there,
    To drown them in its tide.

  And now the heart grows warm,
    With feelings undefined,
  Throwing their deep diffusive charm
    O'er all the realms of mind.
  The loveliness of truth
    Flings out its brightest rays,
  Clothed in the songs of early youth,
    Or joys of other days.

  We think of her, the young
    The beautiful, the bright;
  We hear the music of her tongue,
    Breathing its deep delight.
  We see again each glance,
    Each bright and dazzling beam,
  We feel our throbbing hearts still dance,
    We live but in a dream.

  From darkness, and from woe,
    A power like lightning darts;
  A glory cometh down to throw
    Its shadow o'er our hearts.
  And dimm'd by falling tears,
    A spirit seems to rise,
  That shows the friend of other years
    Is mirror'd in our eyes.

  But sorrow, grief, and care,
    Had dimm'd his setting star;
  And we think with tears of those that were,
    To smile on those that are.
  Yet though the grassy mound
    Sits lightly on his head,
  We'll pledge, in solemn silence round,
    THE MEMORY OF THE DEAD!

  The sparkling juice now pour,
    With fond and liberal hand;
  Oh! raise the laughing rim once more,
    Here's to our FATHER LAND!
  Up, every soul that hears,
    Hurra! with three times three;
  And shout aloud, with deafening cheers,
    The "ISLAND OF THE FREE."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SNOW-WHITE VIRGIN.

(From a Winter Rhapsody. By Christopher North.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMANCE OF HISTORY.

France. By Leitch Ritchie.

The design of moulding the romantic annals of different countries into so many series of Tales--is
one of unquestionable beauty. It originated, we believe, with the late Mr. Henry Neele, who
was in every sense well qualified for so poetical an exercise of ingenuity. He commenced with
"England;" but, unfortunately, did not live to complete a Second Series; neither had he the
gratification of seeing his design fully appreciated by the public. The "Romantic Annals of
England," on their first appearance, made but slow progress in popularity: the author trusted,
and the publisher hoped, and, to use a publishing phrase, the work gradually made its way--slow
but sure--if we may judge from the wished-for "new editions." How unlike is this course of
favour to the blaze of fashionable annals, or novels of high life, that are born and die in
a day, or with one reading circle of a subscription library. They strut and fume in the publisher's
newspaper puffs; but their light is put out within a few brief hours, and they are laid to
sleep on the capacious shelves of the publisher's warehouse. Not so with the Tales of Historical
Romance: they have fancy enough to embellish sober fact.

The second series--Spain--is from a Spanish hand of some pretension, but less power than that
of Mr. Neele.

The third series--France--by another hand, is now before us. In his advertisement, the author
says, when he undertook the present series, "he proposed to himself to fulfil what 'the Romance
of History' seemed to require, by presenting a succession of romantic pictures illustrative
of the historical manners of the French Nation." We incline to his conception of the task.
He further notes that "he has taken pains to go for information to the original sources of
French History. These he found in reasonable abundance, in the old Collegiate Library of Caen,
and in the British Museum." There are in the Series nineteen Tales, with historical summaries
where requisite for their elucidation. The titles are irresistible invitations--as Bertha,
or the Court of Charlemagne--Adventures of Eriland--the Man-Wolf--the Phantom Fight--the Magic
Wand--the Dream Girl, &c. Their style may be called spirit-stirring, while it has much of the
graceful prettiness of love-romance.--The author, too, has caught the very air of chivalric
times, and his pages glitter with the points of their glories;--not unseasonably mixed with
the delightful quaintnesses and descriptive minuteness of the old chroniclers.

To condense either of the stories would be neither advantageous to the author nor reader. We
therefore extract a scene or two from "the Bondsman's Feast," and an exquisite portrait of
"the Dream Girl:"--

The Bondsman's Feast.

Arthault's only child was a son, who owed nothing to his father but the prospect of a fair
inheritance, for he was little like him in form, and not at all in mind: he was a fine, manly,
generous, and high-spirited youth--such as would have been thought too early born, had his
appearance been made before the hereditary servility of his family was forgotten. The knight,
too, had an only child, a daughter; who, in personal appearance and moral qualities, contrasted
in as remarkable a manner with her father. She was little almost to a fault, in the standard
of beauty, if there be such a thing; her form was moulded with a delicacy, which gave the idea
of one of those aërial shapes that dance in the beam of poesy: and there was that gentle and
refined playfulness of expression in her fair countenance, which artists have loved to picture
in the nymphs of some silvan goddess, whose rudest employment is to chase one another on the
green bank, or sport in the transparent wave.

Guillaume loved the beautiful bourgeoise before he knew that such love was a condescension;
and Amable, when, on being desired by her father to refuse her heart to Guillaume, she thought
of inquiring whether she possessed such a thing at all, started with surprise to find that
she had given it away to the knight's son long ago. But where was the use of repining? Guillaume
was young, and handsome, and generous, and brave; and what harm could befall her heart in such
keeping? Amable turned away from her father with a light laugh, and a light step, and stealing
skippingly round the garden wall--for already the paternal prohibitions had gone forth--bounded
towards a grove of wild shrubs at the farther end.

The trees were bathed in sunlight; the air was filled with the song of birds; the face of heaven
was undimmed by a single spot of shade, and the earth was green, and sparkling, and beautiful
beneath. Such was the scene around her; but in Amable's mind, a warmer and brighter sun shed
its light upon her maiden dreams, and the voice of the sweet, rich singer Hope drowned the
melody of the woods. "Away!" she thought; "it cannot be that this strange, unkindly mood can
endure; my father loves his friend in spite of all, and the noble and generous knight could
not hate if he would. They shall not be a week apart when they will both regret what has passed;
and when they meet again, I will laugh them into a confession that they have done so. Then
the two friends will embrace; and then Guillaume and I will sing, and dance, and read together
again--and then--and then--and then--" It seemed as if her thoughts had run her out of breath;
for at this point of the reverie she paused, and hung back for a moment, while a sudden blush
rose to her very eyes. Soon, however, she recovered; she threw back her head gaily, and yet
proudly; legends of happy love crowded upon her memory, and minstrel songs echoed in her ear;
she bounded lightly into the wood, and as some one, darting from behind a tree, caught her
while she passed, Amable, with the stifled scream of alarm, which maidens are wont to give
when they wish it unheard by all save one, found herself in the arms of Guillaume. * * * *

This was a proud and a happy day for Arthault. His head was in the clouds; he scarcely seemed
to touch the earth with his feet; but yet, with the strong control which worldly men are wont
to exercise over their feelings, he schooled his aspect into the bland and lowly expression
of grateful humility. When, in the early part of the morning, the echoes of Nogent (the chateau)
were awakened by a flourish of trumpets, which proclaimed the approach of the Count, instead
of waiting to receive him in the arcade under the belfry, according to the common usage of
lords at that period,[4] he walked bare-headed to the gate of the outer court, and, kneeling,
held the prince's stirrup as he dismounted.

The breakfast was served in cups and porringers of silver, set on a magnificent gold tray,
and consisted chiefly of milk made thick with honey, peeled barley, cherries dried in the sun,
and preserved barberries. The bread was of the mias cakes, composed of rye-flour, cream, orange-water,
and new-laid eggs;[5] and the whole was distributed among the guests by Guillaume; the host
himself having been compelled to take his seat at table by the Count.

The morning was spent in viewing the improvements of the place, and riding about the neighbourhood;
and at ten o'clock the company partook of a dinner served in the same style of tasteful magnificence.
The viands included, among other things, a lamb roasted whole, the head of a wild boar covered
with flowers, fried trouts, and poached eggs, which were eaten with boiled radishes, and peas
in their shells.[6]

A profusion of the precious metals graced the table, more especially in drinking cups; those
of horn, which were formerly in general use, having about this period gone out of vogue. The
luxury of forks, it is true, had not yet been invented; but when it is remembered that the
hands were washed publicly, before and after meals, not as a fashionable form, but in absolute
earnest, it will not be feared that any indelicacy in the feasters contrasted with the taste
and splendour of the feast.[7]

The wines filled by Guillaume, who waited particularly on the Count, besides the fashionable
vin d'Aï of the district,[8] included the vin de Beaume of Burgundy, the vin d'Orleans, so
much prized by Louis le Jeune, and the powerful vin de Rebrechien (another Orleans wine) which
used formerly to be carried to the field by Henry I. to animate his courage.[9]

After dinner the guests partook of the amusement of the chase, which afforded Arthault an opportunity
of exhibiting, in all its extent, his newly-acquired estates--and which, indeed, comprehended
a great part of the family property of Sansavoir; although the Count did not observe, and therefore
no one else was so ill-bred as to do so, an old blackened building mouldering near the garden-wall,
which Sir Launcelot had still preserved, and where he continued to reside in a kind of dogged
defiance of his enemy.

The festivities of the day were closed by a splendid supper, attended by music and minstrel
songs; and when the sleeping cup had passed round, the Count Henri retired to the chamber prepared
for him, which he found to be not at all inferior to his own in luxury and magnificence. Vessels
of gold, filled with rose-water, were placed on his dressing-table; the curtains of the ample
bed were ornamented with partridge plumes, supposed to ensure to the sleeper a long and peaceful
life; and, in short, nothing was wanting that might have been deemed pleasing either to the
taste or superstition of the age.

We halt for the present with this foretaste of the gratification we may calculate on receiving
from nearly every page of the whole Series. By the way, "the references to authorities for
manners, &c. have been introduced throughout the work, and occasionally, illustrative and literary
notes," at the request of the publisher; and we must not lose this opportunity of complimenting
the sense and good taste of the suggestion.

    [4] Gerard de Rousillon, MS. cited in Tristan le Voyageur.

    [5] The paste formed of these materials was spread upon broad
        cabbage leaves, which came out of the oven covered with a slight
        golden crust, composing the mias cakes.--Tristan le Voyageur.

    [6] Tristan le Voyageur. Boiled radishes, it may be important to
        know, are an excellent substitute for asparagus!

    [7] Forks did not come into use till the time of Charles V. in
        the latter half of the fourteenth century. In France, these
        instruments, both in silver and tinned iron, are made so as to
        bear some resemblance to the fingers, of which they are the
        substitutes, and they are used exclusively in the business of
        conveying food to the mouth; while the knives, being narrow and
        sharp-pointed, can answer no purpose but that of carving.--In
        England the case is different. The steel forks, in common use
        among the people, are incapable of raising thin viands to the
        mouth: while the broad, round-pointed knife was obviously
        intended for this business.

    [8] The vin d'Aï, in Champagne, according to Patin, was called "Vinum
        Dei," by Dominicus Bandius. It was the common drink of kings and
        princes.--Paumier, Traité du Vin.

    [9] Mabillon, Annales Benedictines.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
  SHAKSPEARE.

A clergyman of the name of Mathson was minister of Patteesdale, in Westmoreland, sixty years,
and died at the age of ninety. During the early part of his life, his benefice brought him
in only twelve pounds a-year; it was afterwards increased (perhaps by Queen Anne's bounty)
to eighteen, which it never exceeded. On this income he married, brought up four children,
and lived comfortably with his neighbours, educated a son at the university, and left behind
him upwards of one thousand pounds. With that singular simplicity and inattention to forms
which characterize a country life, thus he himself read the burial service over his mother,
he married his father to a second wife, and afterwards buried him also. He published his own
banns of marriage in the church, with a woman he had formerly christened, and he himself married
all his four children.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POPE PUZZLED.

Pope Alexander the sixth asked the Venetian ambassador at Rome, "What right his republic had
to the dominion of the Adriatic See?" "It will be found," replied he, "on the back of the donation
of the patrimony of St. Peter to his successors."

W.A.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGING SIDES.

"I am come from Naples to support you," said one of the old opposition one night to a member
on the ministerial benches. "From Naples!" was the ready rejoinder; "much farther--you are
come from the other side of the House!"

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MOLLY.

  Mollis abuti,
  Has an acuti,
  No lasso finis,
  Molli divinis.
  Omi de armistres,
  Imi na distres.
  Cant u discover,
  Meas alo ver.--SWIFT.

       *       *       *       *       *

KINGS OF FRANCE.

It is worthy of remark, that none of the Kings of France have been succeeded by their sons
for nearly two centuries. Phillippe, the present King of the French, succeeded to the regal
sway in consequence of the dethronement of Charles the Tenth; who succeeded his brother, Louis
the Eighteenth; who succeeded his brother, Louis the Sixteenth; who succeeded his grandfather,
Louis the Fifteenth; who likewise succeeded his grandfather, Louis the Fourteenth, when only
five years of age.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

PANDORA'S BOX.

The Prince of Piedmont was not quite seven years old, when his preceptor, Cardinal (then Father)
Glendel, explained to him the fable of Pandora's Box. He told him that all evils which afflict
the human race were shut up in that fatal box; which Pandora, tempted by Curiosity, opened,
when they immediately flew out, and spread themselves over the surface of the earth.

"What, Father!" said the young prince, "were all the evils shut up in that box?"

"Yes," answered the preceptor.

"That cannot be," replied the prince, "since Curiosity tempted Pandora; and that evil, which
could not have been in it, was not the least, since it was the origin of all."

J.G.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

SQUALL AT SEA.

The other evening a surgeon in the navy stated the following curious circumstance:--

While off Madagascar, in the ship Scorpion, he with the other officers of the ship were dining
with the Captain (Johnson) who had just looked at the glass; it being a very fine day no one
had any apprehension of a squall. The dinner was hardly over when the captain's eye caught
the glass: he suddenly rose from table and hurrying on deck, ordered "All hands to turn up,
and furl all sail immediately." They had just completed the order and were descending, when
the ship was laid on her beam-ends, most of the men had a ducking, but that was all the mischief
that happened. Three or four East Indiamen had already been destroyed by the same accident;
and if the above order had not been complied with immediately as it was, nothing could have
saved the ship, it being only a quarter of an hour since the first notice of it. The captain
was afterwards made commissioner of Bombay, where he died.

GEO. ST. CLAIR.

       *       *       *       *       *

