   Resolved, That we, the temperance women of the State of New York, do
   organize a state temperance league, in the belief that we can the better
   aid, encourage, and fortify each other in the suppression of this
   growing vice, and in the creation of a universal and moral sentiment for
   temperance and sobriety; and to this end there should be much earnest
   prayer for God's wisdom to direct, His power to insure success, linked
   with persistent personal effort.

   Resolved, That it is our duty and privilege to stand firm in our
   example of total abstinence by abandoning the use of all intoxicants
   from our tables and from every department of domestic life.

   Resolved, That, in the judgment of this convention, one of the great
   hopes of the ultimate triumph of the temperance reform lies in a
   thorough training of the youth of the land in such principles and
   practices of temperance as will show them the fatal danger of drinking
   and the criminality of selling liquors; and we earnestly entreat the
   friends of the cause, and especially pastors of churches and
   superintendents of Sunday-schools throughout the state, to take
   immediate measures in their respective cities and towns for the
   formation in perpetual continuance of temperance societies to be
   composed of youths.

   Resolved, That the educational authorities of the state be and are
   hereby respectfully and earnestly requested to cause to be introduced,
   as soon as practicable, into all schools, text-books treating of the
   nature of intoxicating liquors and of the effects upon the human
   constitution, and that Sunday-schools introduce into their libraries
   literature inculcating positive principles which will develop wholesome
   temperance sentiment.

   Resolved, That we earnestly ask all good men to cooperate with us in
   our labor, and also by their votes to complete the work to which all our
   energies and our prayers are consecrated.

   For the accomplishment of these objects we shall religiously employ all
   the means God has placed within our reach, and constantly invoke His aid
   and guidance.

This first convention was marked by deep spiritual power. No step was taken without the manifest
guidance of the Holy Spirit.

The sweet gale, or Dutch myrtle, grows in moorland fens. It is a humble plant, but fragrant;
where it grows abundantly the miasma of the bog is neutralized by its balsamic odors and antiseptic
qualities, disease is displaced and health established.

MRS. ALLEN BUTLER.

(FIRST PRESIDENT)

Lucy Wood was born in Greenbush, Rensselaer County, New York, in 1820. Her educational advantages
were those offered by the public schools of her native county. Having decided musical tastes
she improved the opportunities offered at the city of Albany for their cultivation, early dedicating
her gift of song to the causes she loved. She became a Christian when thirteen years old, and
by a long and useful Christian life has adorned her profession. In 1841 she was united in marriage
with Allen Butler, and soon after removed to Syracuse, then a village of about six thousand
inhabitants. During her life of more than half a century in Syracuse she has been identified
with many of the Christian and benevolent institutions of the city, as well as those of her
own church, to which she is devotedly attached.

