  They paused beside the old barn door;
    A spider's web hung there
  As fragile as a little dream,
    As delicate and fair;
  They decked it with a thousand gems
    Of oh! such dazzling sheen,
  It was the very loveliest thing
    That you have ever seen!

  The sun from his soft bed of cloud
    Came pale and timidly;
  He knew if he let loose his rays
    The mischief there would be;
  He woke the sleeping world to life
    With finger-tips of gold,
  And up from meadow, wood and stream
    The shimmering mists unrolled;
  He lit the candles of the dawn
    On every bush and tree;
  The fairies on their homing wings
    Looked back and laughed with glee,
  "We've made a Fairyland for you,
    O Mortals, wake and see."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It is also extremely likely that the Democrats have induced
    a considerable number of former Centre voters in South Germany
    to join them."--Christian World.

"Democrats" would seem to be the German equivalent of "Home Rulers."

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a recent novel:--

    "She wore under it a white blouse of thin stuff, snowy white
    ... the big floppy sleeves gently bellowed in the slight
    breeze."

It sounds rather a loud dress. Possibly le dernier cri.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "It is like a red rag to a bull to the 'bus drivers to see
    those lorries running about picking up members of the public.

    We are trying to keep our heads, but our shoulders are bending
    under the pressure, and presently, I am afraid, we shall
    collapse and find ourselves in the vortex."--Daily Paper.

We should like to see this situation illustrated. Would some Vorticist oblige?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY OPTIONS.

In these days of ever-increasing strikes it is suggested, for the convenience of contributors
to those magazines which of necessity go to press some time in advance, that they should submit
to editors stories with interchangable situations:--

  Algernon Aimless rose { lazily } from the breakfast-table
                        { hastily}

  at { 9 A.M. } on a dark winter's morning { in order
     { 7 A.M. }                            { in preparation

  { to catch the 9.15 to his office in the City.        }
  { for his four-mile trudge to the City (Tube strike). }

  The { electric lights gleamed with dazzling brilliance           }
      { solitary candle shed a dismal light (Electricians' strike) }

  on the { well-polished } china, silver and table cutlery
         { neglected     }

  which { were the joy and pride of the admirable parlourmaid. }
        { no servants' hands had touched for weeks
            (Domestic servants' strike).                       }

  { had glanced casually at his letters.           }
  { had had no letters to read (Postmen's strike). }

  As he stood in the { spotlessly kept and charming } hall,
                     { dusty discomfort of the dark }

  arranging his { sleek well-brushed brown hair      }
                { long untidy hair (Barbers' strike) } before

  putting on his hat, Ermyntrude Aimless { glided  }
                                         { bounced }

  { gracefully down the staircase, clad in a charming
  { breathlessly up from the basement, wearing an old

  { négligée of satin and lace.     }
  { over-all above her dressing-gown. }

  { "A handkerchief, dearest," she murmured. "I was afraid
  { "Your sandwiches, old thing," she gasped. "I believe

  you'd forgotten { to take one;" } and she held out in her
                  {  about 'em;"  }

  { white delicately--manicured hand a silk handkerchief
  { none-too-clean hand an untidy brown-paper parcel which

  { of palest mauve, exquisitely scented.       }
  { contained his luncheon (Restaurant strike). }

NOTE TO INTENDING AUTHORS.--This is not supposed to be a complete story, but just gives you
the idea.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT PARIS PLAGE.

  Oft have I begged the high gods for a boon,
  That they would bear me from the Flanders slosh
  Back to a desert not made by the Bosch,
  The sunny Egypt that I left too soon.
  O silvery nights beneath an Eastern moon!
  O shirt-sleeved days! O small infrequent wash!
  O once again to see the nigger "nosh"
  The camel, rudely grunting (out of tune)!
  Loudly I called; the high gods hearkened not
  Till came the signal and the big guns ceased;
  But then they brought me to this sea-kissed spot,
  Heeded my prayer and gave me back at least
  One of the pleasures that of old I knew,
  For here once more there's sand within the stew.

       *       *       *       *       *

 IF I ONLY WHINE ENOUGH I MAY BE ABLE TO WRIGGLE
OUT OF THIS YET."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, February 11th.--The KING's Speech outlined a programme of legislation which would
in the ordinary way occupy two or three Sessions. But the Parliamentary machinery is to be
ruthlessly speeded up and "a short cut to the Millennium" is to be discovered by way of the
Committee-rooms. Precisians observed with regret that the customary reference in the Speech
to "economy" had by some oversight been omitted; and the prospective creation of several additional
Departments led Lord CREWE to express apprehension lest the country should be "doped" with
new Ministries, to the detriment of the national health.

"Where are they gone, the old familiar faces?" was the question one asked oneself on looking
at the crowded benches of the House of Commons. It was said of a Past President of the United
States that he was the politest man in America--"he gave up his seat in a street-car and made
room for four ladies." The gap made on the Front Opposition Bench by the involuntary retirement
of Mr. ASQUITH--to which generous allusion was made by the PRIME MINISTER--is so vast that
the joint efforts of Sir DONALD MACLEAN and Mr. ADAMSON to fill it met with only partial success.
Unless, by the way, Mr. SPEAKER definitely decides the problem of precedence, it is to be feared
that the hoped-for acceleration of business will not occur, for at present each of them thinks
it necessary to speak whenever the other does, like the hungry lions on Afric's burning shore.
For all their outward politeness I am sure "the first lion thinks the last a bore"; and if
they insist on roaring together much longer the House will think it of both of them.

The corner-seat whence Mr. PRINGLE flung his barbed darts at the Government is filled, physically,
by Mr. STANTON. Lonely Mr. HOGGE now sits uneasily upon the Front Opposition Bench, but, fearing
perhaps lest its dignified traditions should cramp his style, makes frequent visits to the Lobby.

In accordance with ancient custom Sir COURTENAY ILBERT asserted the right of the House to initiate
legislation by calling out "Outlawries Bill" in the middle of the SPEAKER's recital of the
Sessional Orders. Some of the new Members, I fancy, took the interruption seriously, and thought
that this was the outcome of the "Punish the KAISER." movement.

The Mover and Seconder of the Address fully deserved the customary compliments. Col. Sir RHYS
WILLIAMS' quiet and effective style explained his success as a picker-up of recruits; while
Lt.-Commander DEAN, V.C., though he faced the House with much more trepidation than he did
the batteries of Zeebrugge, got well home at the finish.

The lot of a Labour leader just now is not a happy one. Perhaps that accounted for the querulous
tone assumed by Mr. ADAMSON, who seemed more concerned with the omissions in the KING's Speech
than with its contents. His best sayings were imported from America, but he would have done
better to content himself with LINCOLN and abjure BRYAN, whose "cross-of-gold" fustian will
not bear repetition.

After Sir DONALD MACLEAN had thoughtfully provided a welcome tea interval the PRIME MINISTER
rose to reply to his critics. The accusation that he had forgotten some of his recent promises,
such as "No Conscription," "Punish the Kaiser," and "Germany must pay," did not trouble him
much. If these election-eggs had hatched out prematurely and the contents were coming home
to roost at an inconvenient moment he had no time to attend to them. What the country most
needs at the moment is a firm clear statement on the Labour troubles, and that is what it got.
So far as those troubles are due to remediable causes they shall be remedied; so far as the
demands of Labour are based upon class-greed they shall be fought tooth and nail. There were
a few dissentient shouts from the Opposition Benches, but the House as a whole was delighted
when the PREMIER in ringing tones declared that "no section, however powerful, will be allowed
to hold up the whole nation."

Wednesday, February 12th.--The Lords had a brisk little debate on agriculture. Lord LINCOLNSHIRE
paid many compliments to Lord ERNLE for what he had accomplished as Mr. PROTHERO, but could
not understand why, having exchanged the green benches for the red, he should have reversed
his old policy, "scrapped" the agricultural committees and begun to dispose of his tractors.
Lord ERNLE, in the measured tones so suitable to the Upper House, made a good defence of the
change. The chief thing wanted now was to "clean the land," where noxious weeds, the Bolshevists
of the soil, had been spreading with great rapidity. As for the tractors, the Board thought
it a good thing that the farmers should possess their own, but would retain in its own hands
enough of them to help farmers who could not help themselves--not a large class, I imagine,
with produce at its present prices.

In the Commons an hour was spent in discussing the Government's now customary motion to take
all the time of the House. Up got Mr. ADAMSON, to denounce it, now the War was over, as sheer
Kaiserism. Up got Sir DONALD MACLEAN to defend it as commonsense, though he induced Mr. BONAR
LAW to limit its duration to the end of March. Colonel WEDGWOOD pleaded that private Members
might still be allowed to bring in Bills under the Ten Minutes' Rule; but that Parliamentary
pundit, Sir F. BANBURY, asserted that there was no such thing in reality as the Ten Minutes'
Rule, and pictured the possibility of whole days being swallowed up by a succession of private
Members commending their legislative bantlings one after another with the brief explanatory
statement permitted on such occasions. Alarmed at the prospect Mr. LAW decided not to admit
the thin end of the WEDGWOOD.

The debate on the Address was resumed by Mr. BOTTOMLEY, who had a large audience. During his
previous membership, terminated by one of those periodical visits to the Law Courts to which
he made humorous reference, he delivered some capital speeches; and it was pleasant to find
that the necessity of constantly producing "another powerful article next week" has not caused
him to lose his oratorical form. His gestures are slightly reminiscent of the action of the
common pump-handle, but his voice is excellent, and his matter has the merit of exactly resembling
what our old friend "the Man in the Street" would say in less Parliamentary language, He has
no hesitations, for example, on the subject of making Germany pay. By one of those rapid financial
calculations for which he is renowned he has arrived at the comfortable figure of ten thousand
millions sterling as Britain's little bill; and if you express doubts as to the debtor's capacity
to pay he replies that he cannot recall any judge who made an order against him ever prefacing
his judgment with an inquiry whether it would be convenient for him to find the money.

Payment in kind is Mr. RONALD McNEILL's prescription. Let Leipzig library replenish the empty
shelves of Louvain and the windows of Cologne make good--so far as German glass can do it--the
shattered glories of Rheims.

Mr. CLYNES warned the Government against neglecting the legitimate aspirations of Labour, one
of which, he had the courage to affirm, was access to more and better beer. He also sought
a clear statement of the Government's policy in Russia. This request was repeated by Sir SAMUEL
HOARE, who, having spent a year and a half during the War in that distracted country, declared
that "we must decide between Bolshevists and anti-Bolshevists." Unfortunately that is exactly
what, according to the PRIME MINISTER's reply, we cannot do. The proposed Conference is admittedly
a pis-aller; and, if it ever meets, no one can feel very hopeful of a tangible result from
the deliberations of the Prinkipotentiaries.

Thursday, February 13th.--Labour unrest produced a capital debate, in which Mr. BRACE, Mr.
THOMAS and Mr. SEXTON made excellent speeches on the one side, and Major TRYON, Mr. REMER (an
employer and a profit-sharer) and Mr. BONAR LAW were equally effective on the other. Brushing
aside minor causes the Leader of the House, in his forthright manner, said the root of the
matter was that "Labour wants a larger share of the good things which are to be obtained in
this world"--not an unreasonable desire, he indicated, but one which would not be permanently
realised by strikes directed against the whole community. Mr. SEDDON, of the National Democratic
Party, compressed the same argument into an epigram. If the miners' full demands were conceded
they would have "an El Dorado for one minute and disaster the next."

       *       *       *       *       *

FROST AND THAW.

I was earlier than usual that morning, which was bad luck, as I heard Fitz-Jones click his
gate behind me and thud after me in his snow-boots. Fitz-Jones and I had a little disagreement,
not long ago, about the sole possession of a servant-maid. Since then there has been a coolness.
Curiously enough, the hideous frost that raged at the moment (the thermometer stood at twenty-five
degrees in the henhouse) seemed to thaw Fitz-Jones. And I knew why.

Last summer Fitz-Jones had spent four torrid days with the thermometer at 75 degrees, winding
up his pipes in straw "against" the winter. I had seen his purple face as I hammocked it with
an iced drink. He had seen and heard me laugh.

"Ah," he croaked, "you may laugh on the other side of the hedge now, but you'll laugh on the
other side of your face later."

So now I knew that he was thudding after me in the snow, bursting to hear that my pipes had
burst or were about to burst.

"Hallo, Browne," he began, "how'd you like this?"

"Oh, all right," I said airily. Here I did a wonderful step. Slide on the right heel--hesitation
shuffle on the left toe--two half slips sideways. Wave both arms--backward bend. Recover. Jazz--tangle--tickle-toe
was nothing to it.

"Slippery, isn't it?" he said. "My flannel was frozen to the wash-stand to-day--had to get
it off with a chisel."

I was prepared for these travellers' tales. I knew he was leading up to water-pipes.

"Couldn't get my cold tub," he went on; "frozen solid overnight."

I had heard of this cold tub before. "My tooth-brush froze on to my teeth," I capped him; "the
teapot spout was hung with icicles, and the cat's tongue froze on to the milk when it was drinking."

"How about your pipes?" he began, "Who was right about wrapping?"

"Rapping," I said in well-feigned innocence--"rapping? Who rapped? Rapped on what?"

That set him going.

I gathered when we reached the station there was a strike on. But we found a milk-lorry travelling
our way. So Smith had the entire use of my right ear into which to say, "I told you so," for
an hour, while we travelled to the spot on which we win our bread. He had dragged from me the
fact that our hot-water tap had also struck. The milk cans clattered. Smith chattered. So did
my teeth.

When I got home that night our house seemed to be more handsomely garnished with icicles than
any other house I had seen that day.

"Keep the home fires burning!" I said to my wife on entering. "If need be, burn the banisters
and the bills and my boot-trees and everything else beginning with a 'b.' Keep us thawed and
unburst, or Fitz-Jones will feel he has scored a moral victory; he will strut cross-gartered,
with yellow stockings, for the rest of his days."

"I don't know what you are talking about," said Evangeline, "but Christabel and I" (Christabel
is our general-in-command) "have been cosseting those pipes all day. Been giving them glasses
of hot water and dressing them up in all our clothes. The bath-pipe is wearing my new furs
and your pyjamas, and I've put your golf stockings on the geyser-pipe. I expect they'll all
blow up. Come and look at the hot-water cistern."

The cistern looked dressy in Evangeline's fur coat. I added my silk hat to the geyser's cosy
costume and a pair of boots on the bath-taps. But I was told not to be silly, so took them
off again.

I suggested that the geyser should go to a fancy-dress ball as "The Winter of our Discontent,"
but was again told not to be silly.

Two days elapsed. The frost held. Then something happened. Fitz-Jones's lady-help came round
at 7.30 A.M. to borrow a drop of water, as they were frozen up.

We lent them several drops, and I breathed again, and continued to breathe, with snorts of
derision.

Three days later the thaw came.

As I passed Fitz-Jones's house I was grieved to hear a splashing sound. A cascade of water
was spouting from his bathroom window. Fitz-Jones himself was running round and round the house
like a madman, flourishing a water-key and trying to find the tap to the main.

I begged him to be calm, to control himself for his wife's sake, for all our sakes. I was most
graceful and sympathetic about it.

But with the thaw Fitz-Jones had frozen again.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Civil Servant requires house."--Local Paper.

On the other hand, many houses just now require a civil servant.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PAST AND PRESENT.

(AFTER T. HOOD.)

  I remember, I remember.
    The line where I was borne,
  The little platform where the train
    Came rushing in at morn;
  I used to take a little seat
    Upon the little train,
  But now before I get at it
    It rushes out again.

  I remember, I remember
    The 'buses red and white,
  The corner where they used to stop
    And take me home at night;
  They never gave a wink at me
    And shouted, "Full to-day,"
  But now I often wish that one
    Would carry me away.

  I remember, I remember
    The cabs we used to get,
  The growler from the "Adam Arms"
    (The horse is living yet);
  My spirit was impatient then,
    That is so meek to-day,
  And now I often think that that
    Would be the quickest way.

  I remember, I remember
    The lights against the sky;
  I used to think that London would
    Be closer by-and-by;
  It was a childish ignorance,
    But now 'tis little joy
  To know I'm farther from the Strand
    Than when I was a boy.

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUE TYPES.

At the present moment, when the billiard professionals are contesting the palm and Mr. S.H.
FRY has re-captured the title of amateur champion seven-and-twenty years after he first won
it, there is such interest in the game that a kind of Guide to Billiard Types cannot but be
of value. Hence the following classification of players who are to be met with in clubs, country-houses
or saloons by any ordinary wielders of the cue. Any reader who has ever endeavoured to master
what may be called (by way of inversion) the Three Balls Art has power to add to their number.

The player who, as he drops behind in the game, says so often that it is months since h" touched
a cue that your success is robbed of all savour.

The player who is funny and calls the red the Cherry, the Robin, the Cardinal or the Lobster.

The player who comes to the game as to a solemn ritual and neither smiles nor speaks.

The player who keeps on changing his cue and blames each one in turn for his own ineptitude.

The player who can use his left hand as well as his right: a man to be avoided.

The player who whistles while he plays. This is a very deadly companion.

The player who never has a good word for his opponent's efforts.

The player who congratulates you on every stroke: a charming antagonist.

The player who is always jolly whatever buffets he receives from fortune.

The player who talks about every one of his strokes.

The player who swears at most of them.

The player who doubts the accuracy of your scoring. Avoid this one.

The player who hits everything too hard. This is a very exasperating man to meet because fortune
usually favours him. Either he flukes immoderately or he does not leave well. He is usually
a hearty fellow with no sense of shame. Perhaps he says "Sorry;" but he adds, "It must have
been on."

The player who hits everything too gently: the lamb as compared with the previous type, who
is a lion. The lamb is good to play with if you prefer winning to a real contest.

The player who groans loudly when you make a fluke.

The player who is accustomed to play on a much faster table than this.

The player who calls the game Pills.

The player who calls it Tuskers.

The player who counts your breaks for you, but whether from interest or suspicion you are not sure.

The player who pots the white when he should and says nothing about it.

The player who pots the white when he should, with a thousand apologies.

The player who pots the white when he shouldn't, with a thousand apologies.

The player who is snappy with the marker.

The player who drops cigar ash on the cloth.

The player who hates to lose.

The player who would much rather that you won. This type is a joy to play with, unless towards
the end he too patently ceases to try.

The player who, after the stroke, tells you what you ought to have done.

The player who talks to the balls, particularly to the red. "Now then, red," he says, "don't
go into baulk;" or, "Stop just by that pocket;" or "White, don't go down."

The player who has just come from a spectacular match and keeps on trying to reproduce that
shot of STEVENSON's.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In a licensing prosecution at ---- yesterday it was stated
    that one shilling was charged for a 'drop' of whisky of about
    one-sixth of a gallon."--Daily Paper.

In the interests of temperance we have suppressed the name of the town at which this bargain
was secured.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTRACTS.

It was shortly after the commencement of the March offensive that it was decided to open new
munition works in Glenwhinnie, N.B. The contract for building was offered to the well-known
firm of McTavish, McTurk & McThom, of Auchterinver.

They accepted. With thanks.

And so it came about that, early in April, Glenwhinnie, N.B. became the scene of great activity.
Men bearing strange instruments came and took extensive measurements; large bodies of gentlemen
in corduroys, armed with powerful implements indicative of toil, arrived and smoked clay pipes;
a special light railway was rapidly constructed, and bore colossal cranes and more gentlemen
with clay pipes to the scene of action. And Mr. McTurk went in person to open the proceedings.

In a speech pulsating with patriotism, Mr. McTurk exhorted his men to do their best for their
King and country, and show everybody what the firm of McTavish, McTurk & McThom could do. He
then departed, leaving things in the hands of a dozen subordinates well tried and true ...

And so by the early days of June the work began ...

Came November 11th ...

November 20th it was decided that the new works in Glenwhinnie, N.B., would not be necessary
after all.

What was to be done?

A special committee decided that the buildings should be demolished, and the contract was offered
to the well-known firm of McClusky, McCleery & McClumpha, of Auchtermuchty.

They accepted. With thanks.

And so it came about that a second army of occupation descended upon Glenwhinnie, N.B. Fresh
bodies of gentlemen in corduroys and armed with a rather different set of powerful implements
arrived, and smoked clay pipes. Another light railway was rapidly constructed, and Mr. McCleery
went in person to open the proceedings. In a speech full of fervour ...

And so by early January the work commenced.

By this time Messrs. McTavish and Co. had got the buildings well in hand. What was to be done?
Leave their work uncompleted? Never! As Mr. McThom pointed out with considerable emotion to
his partners, a contract was a contract all the world over.

If it ever came to be said that any firm he was interested in had failed to fulfil a contract,
he for one (Angus McThom) would never hold up his head. The contract must be completed. It
was a sacred duty. Besides--a minor point--what about payment?

So Mr. McTurk was despatched to Glenwhinnie, N.B., where in a speech of great power he pointed
out the path of duty.

Amid scenes of enthusiasm the work went on apace.

And at the other end the well-known firm of McClusky, McCleery & McClumpha tore down the buildings
with equal enthusiasm.

And that is the state of affairs just now in Glenwhinnie, N.B. What will happen when--as they
are bound to do--the wreckers overtake the builders is a matter for speculation. Mr. McTurk
may make another speech. Possibly Mr. McCleery may also exhort. There is promise of a delicate
situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STOICS OF THE SERPENTINE.

    I, for my part, admire
    The snug domestic fire,
  The comfortable hearth, the glowing coals,
    Nor in the least aspire
  To emulate those strong heroic souls
    Who get up while it's dark
    And haste to chill ablutions in Hyde Park.

    It can't be very nice
    To break the solid ice
  And, like a walrus, plunge into the deep;
    Then jump out in a trice,
  Dissevering the icicles as you leap,
    Even though the after-glow
    Of virtue melts the circumjacent snow.

    And we of milder mould,
    And we who're growing old,
  Wish they would wash, like other folk, elsewhere;
    It makes us feel quite cold
  To think of them refrigerating there;
    We shiver in our beds;
    Our pitying molars chatter in our heads.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE DOVER PATROL.

    VINDICTIVE MEN AS PROGRAMME SELLERS."--Times.

After what men have suffered from the flag-day sex, no wonder they get vindictive when they
have a chance of retaliation.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The causes of the engineers' strike in London are a little
    obscure, but the stoppage of the ten minutes allowed for tea
    before the 47-hour day was introduced brought the men out from
    one motor works."--Provincial Paper.

The great objection to a day of this length is that it gives so little scope for overtime.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Association for the Betterment of the Highlands and
    Islands of the Free Church of Scotland have prepared and
    presented to the Secretary for Scotland a memorandum on the
    reconstruction of the Highlands."--Scots Paper.

We have always thought that judicious thinning of the more congested views would help the tourist.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The men who had watched the daily search set up a cheer,
    ffi---- ----fl."--Sunday Paper.

We hope the cheer was more hearty than it appears at first sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CONSULTATION.

    Persons of the dialogue: Arthur Pillwell, M.D., a
    fashionable physician; Henry Swallow, a patient. The scene
    is laid in Dr. Pillwell's consulting-room--a solid room,
    heavily furnished. A large writing-table occupies the centre
    of the scene. There are a few prints on the walls; two
    bookcases are solidly filled with medical books. Dr. Pillwell
    is seated at the writing-table. He rises to greet his
    patient.

Dr. P. Good morning, Mr. ---- (He looks furtively at a notebook lying open on the table) Mr.--ah--Swallow.

Mr. S. (thinking to himself: Ought I to call this Johnnie "Doctor," or not? I'm told they're
very particular about a thing like that. Like a fool, I never gave it a thought. Still, I can't
go so very far wrong if I call him "Doctor." Besides, he's got to be called "Doctor" whether
he likes it or not. Here goes.) (Aloud) Good morning, Dr. Pillwell. I've been troubled with
some symptoms which I can't quite make out. I think I described them in my letter. (To himself:
They made several doctors Knights of the British Empire, and I'm almost certain Pillwell was
one of them. Sir John Pillwell. Yes, it sounds all right; but I shan't call him "Sir John"
because if he isn't a knight he might think I was trying to make fun of him and then he might
retaliate by calling me "Sir Henry," and I should hate that). (Aloud) The chief symptoms are
a steady loss of appetite and a disinclination to work. I was recommended to consult you by
my friend, Mr. Bolter, as I think I explained in my letter.

Dr. P. It's curious how prevalent these symptoms are at the present moment. I think, if you
don't mind, I will begin by taking your temperature.

    [Produces clinical thermometer and gives it three good
    jerks.

Mr. S. (to himself: There--I knew he'd want to put one of those infernal machines in my mouth.
I simply loathe the feeling of them, and I'm always on the verge of crunching them up. Perhaps
I ought to warn him.) (Aloud) I'm afraid I'm not much good as a thermometer man.

Dr. P. Oh, it's a mere trifle. All you've got to do is just to hold it under your tongue. There--it's
in.

Mr. S. (talking with difficulty). Ish i' in 'e ri' plashe?

Dr. P. Yes. But don't try to talk while it's in your mouth. I've had patients who've bitten
it in two. There--that's enough. (Extracts it deftly from patient's mouth and examines it.)
Hum, hum, yes. A point below normal. Nothing violently wrong there. (He now performs the usual
rites and mysteries.) I'll make you out a little prescription which ought to put you all right.
And if you can spare a week, and spend it at Eastbourne, I don't think it will do you any harm.

Mr. S. (To himself: I like this man. He doesn't waste any time. It's a curious coincidence
that I should have been thinking this very morning of arranging a visit to the seaside. Now
of course I've absolutely got to go. Can't disobey my new doctor, and wouldn't if I could.
By Jove, I'd all but forgotten about the two guineas fee. Yes, the cheque's in my breast-pocket.
Two guineas for the first visit. The rule is not to give it too openly, but to slip it on to
a desk or table as if you were half ashamed of it. Where shall I put it so as to make sure
he spots it out of the corner of his eye? Ha! on the blotting-pad, which I can just reach.
Does it with his left hand, and feels a man once more.)

Dr. P. And here's your prescription.

Mr. S. Thank you a thousand times. (To himself: He's edging up to the blotting-pad, and he'll
have the cheque in another second.)

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A CHINESE COOLIE.

  O happy Chink! When I behold thy face,
    Illumined with the all-embracing smile
  Peculiar to thy celestial race,
    So full of mirth and yet so free from guile,
  I stand amazed and let my fancy roam,
    And ask myself by what mysterious lure
  Thou wert induced to leave thy flowery home
    For Flanders, where, alas! the flowers are fewer.

  Oft have I marked thee on the Calais quay,
    Unloading ships of plum-and-apple jam,
  Or beef, or, three times weekly, M. and V.,
    And sometimes bacon (very rarely ham);
  Or, where St. Quentin towers above the plain,
    Have seen thee scan the awful scene and sigh,
  Pick up a spade, then put it down again
    And wipe a furtive tear-drop from thine eye.

  And many a Sabbath have I seen thee stride
    With stately step across the Merville Square,
  Beaming with pleasure, full of conscious pride,
    Breaking the hearts of all the jeunes filles there;
  A bowler hat athwart thy stubborn locks
    And round thy neck a tie of brilliant blue,
  Thy legs in football shorts, thy feet in socks
    Of silken texture and vermilion hue.

  Impassive Chu (or should I call thee "Chow"?),
    Say, what hast thou to do with all this fuss,
  The ceaseless hurry and the beastly row,
    The buzzing plane and roaring motor-bus,
  While far away the sullen Hwang-ho rolls
    His lazy waters to the Eastern Sea,
  And sleepy mandarins sit on bamboo poles
    Imbibing countless cups of China tea?

  A year ago thou digged'st in feverish haste
    Against the whelming onset of the Hun
  A hundred miles of trench across the waste--
    A year ago--and now the War is won;
  But thou remainest still with pick and spade,
    Celestial delver, patient son of toil!
  To fill the trenches thou thyself hast made
    And roll the twisted wire-in even coil.

  But not for thee the glory and the praise,
    The medals or the fat gratuity;
  No man shall crown thee with a wreath of bays
    Or recommend thee for the O.B.E.;
  And thou, methinks, wouldst rather have it so,
    Provided that, without undue delay,
  They let thee take thy scanty wage and go
    Back to thy sunny home in Old Cathay;

  Where never falls a shell nor bursts a bomb,
    Nor ever blows the slightest whiff of gas,
  Such as was not infrequent in the Somme,
    But on thy breast shall lean some slant-eyed lass;
  And she shall listen to thy converse ripe
    And search for souvenirs among thy kit,
  Pass thee thy slippers and thy opium pipe
    And make thee glad that thou hast done thy bit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SELF MADE MAN

    Young widwep lady intelligent, wealthy wishing to remarie,
    wishes to make acquaintance in a Swiss Sportplace with a well
    situated english or american gentleman. Preference is given
    to a businessman, self made, with fine caracter aged 35-45
    handsome as the lady is it too."--Swiss Paper.

We foresee a rush of profiteers to the Alps.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS.)

