Most Italian crooks come to the United States not merely some time or other, but at intervals.
Practically all of the Camorrist defendants on trial at Viterbo have been in the United States,
and all will be here soon again, after their discharge, unless steps are taken to keep them
out. Luckily, it is a fact that so much has been written in American newspapers and periodicals
in the past few years about the danger of the Black Hand and the criminals from south Italy
that the authorities on the other side have allowed a rumor to be circulated that the climate
of South America is peculiarly adapted to persons whose lungs have become weakened from confinement
in prison. In fact, at the present time more Italian criminals seek asylum in the Argentine
than in the United States. Theoretically, of course, as no convict can procure a passport,
none of them leave Italy at all--but that is one of the humors of diplomacy. The approved method
among the continental countries of Europe of getting rid of their criminals is to induce them
to "move on." A lot of them keep "moving on" until they land in America.

Of course, the police should be able to cope with the Black Hand problem, and, with a free
use of Italian detectives who speak the dialects and know their quarry, we may gradually, in
the course of fifteen years or so, see the entire disappearance of this particular criminal
phenomenon. But an ounce of prevention is worth--several tons of cure. Petrosino claimed--not
boastfully--that he could, with proper deportation laws behind him, exterminate the Black Hand
throughout the United States in three months.

But, as far as the future is concerned, a solution of the problem exists--a solution so simple
that only a statesman could explain why it has not been adopted long years ago. The statutes
in force at Ellis Island permit the exclusion of immigrants who have been guilty of crimes
involving moral turpitude in their native land, but do not provide for the compulsory production
of the applicants' "penal certificate" under penalty of deportation. Every Italian emigrant
is obliged to secure a certified document from the police authorities of his native place,
giving his entire criminal record or showing that he has had none, and without it he can not
obtain a passport. For several years efforts have been made to insert in our immigration laws
a provision that every immigrant from a country issuing such a certificate must produce it
before he can be sure of admission to the United States. If this proposed law should be passed
by Congress the exclusion of Italian criminals would be almost automatic. But if it or some
similar provisions fails to become law, it is not too much to say that we may well anticipate
a Camorra of some sort in every locality in our country having a large Italian population.
Yet government moves slowly, and action halts while diplomacy sagely shakes its head over the
official cigarette.

A bill amending the present law to this effect has received the enthusiastic approval of the
immigration authorities and of the President. At first the Italian officials here and abroad
expressed themselves as heartily in sympathy with this proposed addition to the excluded classes;
but, once the bill was drawn and submitted to Congress, some of these same officials entered
violent protests against it, on the ground that such a provision discriminated unfairly against
Italy and the other countries issuing such certificates. The result of this has been to delay
all action on the bill which is now being held in committee. Meanwhile the Black Hander is
arriving almost daily, and we have no adequate laws to keep him out.