While this was going on behind the altar, the people outside were wandering about, looking
at each other, and on the watch not to miss any of the shows of the day. People were talking,
chattering, and greeting each other as they might do in the street. Here and there somebody
was kneeling on the pavement, unheeding the passing throng. At several of the chapels, services
were being conducted; and there was a large congregation, an ordinary church full, about each
of them. But the most of those present seemed to regard it as a spectacle only; and as a display
of dress, costumes, and nationalities it was almost unsurpassed. There are few more wonderful
sights in this world than an Englishwoman in what she considers full dress. An English dandy
is also a pleasing object. For my part, as I have hinted, I like almost as well as anything
the big footmen,--those in scarlet breeches and blue gold-embroidered coats. I stood in front
of one of the fine creations for some time, and contemplated him as one does the Farnese Hercules.
One likes to see to what a splendor his species can come, even if the brains have all run down
into the calves of the legs. There were also the pages, the officers of the pope's household,
in costumes of the Middle Ages; the pope's Swiss guard in the showy harlequin uniform designed
by Michael Angelo; the foot-soldiers in white short-clothes, which threatened to burst, and
let them fly into pieces; there were fine ladies and gentlemen, loafers and loungers, from
every civilized country, jabbering in all the languages; there were beggars in rags, and boors
in coats so patched that there was probably none of the original material left; there were
groups of peasants from the Campagna, the men in short jackets and sheepskin breeches with
the wool side out, the women with gay-colored folded cloths on their heads, and coarse woolen
gowns; a squad of wild-looking Spanish gypsies, burning-eyed, olive-skinned, hair long, black,
crinkled, and greasy, as wild in raiment as in face; priests and friars, Zouaves in jaunty
light gray and scarlet; rags and velvets, silks and serge cloths,--a cosmopolitan gathering
poured into the world's great place of meeting,--a fine religious Vanity Fair on Sunday.

There came an impressive moment in all this confusion, a point of august solemnity. Up to that
instant, what with chanting and singing the many services, and the noise of talking and walking,
there was a wild babel. But at the stroke of the bell and the elevation of the Host, down went
the muskets of the guard with one clang on the marble; the soldiers kneeled; the multitude
in the nave, in the aisles, at all the chapels, kneeled; and for a minute in that vast edifice
there was perfect stillness: if the whole great concourse had been swept from the earth, the
spot where it lately was could not have been more silent. And then the military order went
down the line, the soldiers rose, the crowd rose, and the mass and the hum went on.

It was all over before one; and the pope was borne out again, and the vast crowd began to discharge
itself. But it was a long time before the carriages were all filled and rolled off. I stood
for a half hour watching the stream go by,--the pompous soldiers, the peasants and citizens,
the dazzling equipages, and jaded, exhausted women in black, who had sat or stood half a day
under the dome, and could get no carriage; and the great state coaches of the cardinals, swinging
high in the air, painted and gilded, with three noble footmen hanging on behind each, and a
cardinal's broad face in the window.

VESUVIUS

CLIMBING A VOLCANO

Everybody who comes to Naples,--that is, everybody except the lady who fell from her horse
the other day at Resina and injured her shoulder, as she was mounting for the ascent,--everybody,
I say, goes up Vesuvius, and nearly every one writes impressions and descriptions of the performance.
If you believe the tales of travelers, it is an undertaking of great hazard, an experience
of frightful emotions. How unsafe it is, especially for ladies, I heard twenty times in Naples
before I had been there a day. Why, there was a lady thrown from her horse and nearly killed,
only a week ago; and she still lay ill at the next hotel, a witness of the truth of the story.
I imagined her plunged down a precipice of lava, or pitched over the lip of the crater, and
only rescued by the devotion of a gallant guide, who threatened to let go of her if she didn't
pay him twenty francs instantly. This story, which will live and grow for years in this region,
a waxing and never-waning peril of the volcano, I found, subsequently, had the foundation I
have mentioned above. The lady did go to Resina in order to make the ascent of Vesuvius, mounted
a horse there, fell off, being utterly unhorsewomanly, and hurt herself; but her injury had
no more to do with Vesuvius than it had with the entrance of Victor Emanuel into Naples, which
took place a couple of weeks after. Well, as I was saying, it is the fashion to write descriptions
of Vesuvius; and you might as well have mine, which I shall give to you in rough outline.

There came a day when the Tramontane ceased to blow down on us the cold air of the snowy Apennines,
and the white cap of Vesuvius, which is, by the way, worn generally like the caps of the Neapolitans,
drifted inland instead of toward the sea. Warmer weather had come to make the bright sunshine
no longer a mockery. For some days I had been getting the gauge of the mountain. With its white
plume it is a constant quantity in the landscape: one sees it from every point of view; and
we had been scarcely anywhere that volcanic remains, or signs of such action,--a thin crust
shaking under our feet, as at Solfatara, where blasts of sulphurous steam drove in our faces,--did
not remind us that the whole ground is uncertain, and undermined by the subterranean fires
that have Vesuvius for a chimney. All the coast of the bay, within recent historic periods,
in different spots at different times, has risen and sunk and risen again, in simple obedience
to the pulsations of the great fiery monster below. It puffs up or sinks, like the crust of
a baking apple-pie. This region is evidently not done; and I think it not unlikely it may have
to be turned over again before it is. We had seen where Herculaneum lies under the lava and
under the town of Resina; we had walked those clean and narrow streets of Pompeii, and seen
the workmen picking away at the imbedded gravel, sand, and ashes which still cover nearly two
thirds of the nice little, tight little Roman city; we had looked at the black gashes on the
mountain-sides, where the lava streams had gushed and rolled and twisted over vineyards and
villas and villages; and we decided to take a nearer look at the immediate cause of all this
abnormal state of things.

In the morning when I awoke the sun was just rising behind Vesuvius; and there was a mighty
display of gold and crimson in that quarter, as if the curtain was about to be lifted on a
grand performance, say a ballet at San Carlo, which is the only thing the Neapolitans think
worth looking at. Straight up in the air, out of the mountain, rose a white pillar, spreading
out at the top like a palm-tree, or, to compare it to something I have seen, to the Italian
pines, that come so picturesquely into all these Naples pictures. If you will believe me, that
pillar of steam was like a column of fire, from the sun shining on and through it, and perhaps
from the reflection of the background of crimson clouds and blue and gold sky, spread out there
and hung there in royal and extravagant profusion, to make a highway and a regal gateway, through
which I could just then see coming the horses and the chariot of a southern perfect day. They
said that the tree-shaped cloud was the sign of an eruption; but the hotel-keepers here are
always predicting that. The eruption is usually about two or three weeks distant; and the hotel
proprietors get this information from experienced guides, who observe the action of the water
in the wells; so that there can be no mistake about it.

We took carriages at nine o'clock to Resina, a drive of four miles, and one of exceeding interest,
if you wish to see Naples life. The way is round the curving bay by the sea; but so continuously
built up is it, and so inclosed with high walls of villas, through the open gates of which
the golden oranges gleam, that you seem never to leave the city. The streets and quays swarm
with the most vociferous, dirty, multitudinous life. It is a drive through Rag Fair. The tall,
whitey-yellow houses fronting the water, six, seven, eight stories high, are full as beehives;
people are at all the open windows; garments hang from the balconies and from poles thrust
out; up every narrow, gloomy, ascending street are crowds of struggling human shapes; and you
see how like herrings in a box are packed the over half a million people of Naples. In front
of the houses are the markets in the open air,--fish, vegetables, carts of oranges; in the
sun sit women spinning from distaffs or weaving fishing-nets; and rows of children who were
never washed and never clothed but once, and whose garments have nearly wasted away; beggars,
fishermen in red caps, sailors, priests, donkeys, fruit-venders, street-musicians, carriages,
carts, two-wheeled break-down vehicles,--the whole tangled in one wild roar and rush and babel,--a
shifting, varied panorama of color, rags,--a pandemonium such as the world cannot show elsewhere,
that is what one sees on the road to Resina. The drivers all drive in the streets here as if
they held a commission from the devil, cracking their whips, shouting to their horses, and
dashing into the thickest tangle with entire recklessness. They have one cry, used alike for
getting more speed out of their horses or for checking them, or in warning to the endangered
crowds on foot. It is an exclamatory grunt, which may be partially expressed by the letters
"a-e-ugh." Everybody shouts it, mule-driver, "coachee," or cattle-driver; and even I, a passenger,
fancied I could do it to disagreeable perfection after a time. Out of this throng in the streets
I like to select the meek, patient, diminutive little donkeys, with enormous panniers that
almost hide them. One would have a woman seated on top, with a child in one pannier and cabbages
in the other; another, with an immense stock of market-greens on his back, or big baskets of
oranges, or with a row of wine-casks and a man seated behind, adhering, by some unknown law
of adhesion, to the sloping tail. Then there was the cart drawn by one diminutive donkey, or
by an ox, or by an ox and a donkey, or by a donkey and horse abreast, never by any possibility
a matched team. And, funniest of all, was the high, two-wheeled caleche, with one seat, and
top thrown back, with long thills and poor horse. Upon this vehicle were piled, Heaven knows
how, behind, before, on the thills, and underneath the high seat, sometimes ten, and not seldom
as many as eighteen people, men, women, and children,--all in flaunting rags, with a colored
scarf here and there, or a gay petticoat, or a scarlet cap,--perhaps a priest, with broad black
hat, in the center,--driving along like a comet, the poor horse in a gallop, the bells on his
ornamented saddle merrily jingling, and the whole load in a roar of merriment.

But we shall never get to Vesuvius at this rate. I will not even stop to examine the macaroni
manufactories on the road. The long strips of it were hung out on poles to dry in the streets,
and to get a rich color from the dirt and dust, to say nothing of its contact with the filthy
people who were making it. I am very fond of macaroni. At Resina we take horses for the ascent.
We had sent ahead for a guide and horses for our party of ten; but we found besides, I should
think, pretty nearly the entire population of the locality awaiting us, not to count the importunate
beggars, the hags, male and female, and the ordinary loafers of the place. We were besieged
to take this and that horse or mule, to buy walking-sticks for the climb, to purchase lava
cut into charms, and veritable ancient coins, and dug-up cameos, all manufactured for the demand.
One wanted to hold the horse, or to lead it, to carry a shawl, or to show the way. In the midst
of infinite clamor and noise, we at last got mounted, and, turning into a narrow lane between
high walls, began the ascent, our cavalcade attended by a procession of rags and wretchedness
up through the village. Some of them fell off as we rose among the vineyards, and they found
us proof against begging; but several accompanied us all day, hoping that, in some unguarded
moment, they could do us some slight service, and so establish a claim on us. Among these I
noticed some stout fellows with short ropes, with which they intended to assist us up the steeps.
If I looked away an instant, some urchin would seize my horse's bridle; and when I carelessly
let my stick fall on his hand, in token for him to let go, he would fall back with an injured
look, and grasp the tail, from which I could only loosen him by swinging my staff and preparing
to break his head.

The ascent is easy at first between walls and the vineyards which produce the celebrated Lachryma
Christi. After a half hour we reached and began to cross the lava of 1858, and the wild desolation
and gloom of the mountain began to strike us. One is here conscious of the titanic forces at
work. Sometimes it is as if a giant had ploughed the ground, and left the furrows without harrowing
them to harden into black and brown stone. We could see again how the broad stream, flowing
down, squeezed and squashed like mud, had taken all fantastic shapes,--now like gnarled tree
roots; now like serpents in a coil; here the human form, or a part of it,--a torso or a limb,--in
agony; now in other nameless convolutions and contortions, as if heaved up and twisted in fiery
pain and suffering,--for there was almost a human feeling in it; and again not unlike stone
billows. We could see how the cooling crust had been lifted and split and turned over by the
hot stream underneath, which, continually oozing from the rent of the eruption, bore it down
and pressed it upward. Even so low as the point where we crossed the lava of 1858 were fissures
whence came hot air.

An hour brought us to the resting-place called the Hermitage, an osteria and observatory established
by the government. Standing upon the end of a spur, it seems to be safe from the lava, whose
course has always been on either side; but it must be an uncomfortable place in a shower of
stones and ashes. We rode half an hour longer on horseback, on a nearly level path, to the
foot of the steep ascent, the base of the great crater. This ride gave us completely the wide
and ghastly desolation of the mountain, the ruin that the lava has wrought upon slopes that
were once green with vine and olive, and busy with the hum of life. This black, contorted desert
waste is more sterile and hopeless than any mountain of stone, because the idea of relentless
destruction is involved here. This great hummocked, sloping plain, ridged and seamed, was all
about us, without cheer or relaxation of grim solitude. Before us rose, as black and bare,
what the guides call the mountain, and which used to be the crater. Up one side is worked in
the lava a zigzag path, steep, but not very fatiguing, if you take it slowly. Two thirds of
the way up, I saw specks of people climbing. Beyond it rose the cone of ashes, out of which
the great cloud of sulphurous smoke rises and rolls night and day now. On the very edge of
that, on the lip of it, where the smoke rose, I also saw human shapes; and it seemed as if
they stood on the brink of Tartarus and in momently imminent peril.

We left our horses in a wild spot, where scorched boulders had fallen upon the lava bed; and
guides and boys gathered about us like cormorants: but, declining their offers to pull us up,
we began the ascent, which took about three quarters of an hour. We were then on the summit,
which is, after all, not a summit at all, but an uneven waste, sloping away from the Cone in
the center. This sloping lava waste was full of little cracks,--not fissures with hot lava
in them, or anything of the sort,--out of which white steam issued, not unlike the smoke from
a great patch of burned timber; and the wind blew it along the ground towards us. It was cool,
for the sun was hidden by light clouds, but not cold. The ground under foot was slightly warm.
I had expected to feel some dread, or shrinking, or at least some sense of insecurity, but
I did not the slightest, then or afterwards; and I think mine is the usual experience. I had
no more sense of danger on the edge of the crater than I had in the streets of Naples.

We next addressed ourselves to the Cone, which is a loose hill of ashes and sand,--a natural
slope, I should say, of about one and a half to one, offering no foothold. The climb is very
fatiguing, because you sink in to the ankles, and slide back at every step; but it is short,--we
were up in six to eight minutes,--though the ladies, who had been helped a little by the guides,
were nearly exhausted, and sank down on the very edge of the crater, with their backs to the
smoke. What did we see? What would you see if you looked into a steam boiler? We stood on the
ashy edge of the crater, the sharp edge sloping one way down the mountain, and the other into
the bowels, whence the thick, stifling smoke rose. We rolled stones down, and heard them rumbling
for half a minute. The diameter of the crater on the brink of which we stood was said to be
an eighth of a mile; but the whole was completely filled with vapor. The edge where we stood
was quite warm.

We ate some rolls we had brought in our pockets, and some of the party tried a bottle of the
wine that one of the cormorants had brought up, but found it anything but the Lachryma Christi
it was named. We looked with longing eyes down into the vapor-boiling caldron; we looked at
the wide and lovely view of land and sea; we tried to realize our awful situation, munched
our dry bread, and laughed at the monstrous demands of the vagabonds about us for money, and
then turned and went down quicker than we came up.

We had chosen to ascend to the old crater rather than to the new one of the recent eruption
on the side of the mountain, where there is nothing to be seen. When we reached the bottom
of the Cone, our guide led us to the north side, and into a region that did begin to look like
business. The wind drove all the smoke round there, and we were half stifled with sulphur fumes
to begin with. Then the whole ground was discolored red and yellow, and with many more gay
and sulphur-suggesting colors. And it actually had deep fissures in it, over which we stepped
and among which we went, out of which came blasts of hot, horrid vapor, with a roaring as if
we were in the midst of furnaces. And if we came near the cracks the heat was powerful in our
faces, and if we thrust our sticks down them they were instantly burned; and the guides cooked
eggs; and the crust was thin, and very hot to our boots; and half the time we couldn't see
anything; and we would rush away where the vapor was not so thick, and, with handkerchiefs
to our mouths, rush in again to get the full effect. After we came out again into better air,
it was as if we had been through the burning, fiery furnace, and had the smell of it on our
garments. And, indeed, the sulphur had changed to red certain of our clothes, and noticeably
my pantaloons and the black velvet cap of one of the ladies; and it was some days before they
recovered their color. But, as I say, there was no sense of danger in the adventure.

We descended by a different route, on the south side of the mountain, to our horses, and made
a lark of it. We went down an ash slope, very steep, where we sank in a foot or little less
at every step, and there was nothing to do for it, but to run and jump. We took steps as long
as if we had worn seven-league boots. When the whole party got in motion, the entire slope
seemed to slide a little with us, and there appeared some danger of an avalanche. But we did
n't stop for it. It was exactly like plunging down a steep hillside that is covered thickly
with light, soft snow. There was a gray-haired gentleman with us, with a good deal of the boy
in him, who thought it great fun.

I have said little about the view; but I might have written about nothing else, both in the
ascent and descent. Naples, and all the villages which rim the bay with white, the gracefully
curving arms that go out to sea, and do not quite clasp rocky Capri, which lies at the entrance,
made the outline of a picture of surpassing loveliness. But as we came down, there was a sight
that I am sure was unique. As one in a balloon sees the earth concave beneath, so now, from
where we stood, it seemed to rise, not fall, to the sea, and all the white villages were raised
to the clouds; and by the peculiar light, the sea looked exactly like sky, and the little boats
on it seemed to float, like balloons in the air. The illusion was perfect. As the day waned,
a heavy cloud hid the sun, and so let down the light that the waters were a dark purple. Then
the sun went behind Posilipo in a perfect blaze of scarlet, and all the sea was violet. Only
it still was not the sea at all; but the little chopping waves looked like flecked clouds;
and it was exactly as if one of the violet, cloud-beautified skies that we see at home over
some sunsets had fallen to the ground. And the slant white sails and the black specks of boats
on it hung in the sky, and were as unsubstantial as the whole pageant. Capri alone was dark
and solid. And as we descended and a high wall hid it, a little handsome rascal, who had attended
me for an hour, now at the head and now at the tail of my pony, recalled me to the realities
by the request that I should give him a franc. For what? For carrying signor's coat up the
mountain. I rewarded the little liar with a German copper. I had carried my own overcoat all day.

SORRENTO DAYS

OUTLINES

The day came when we tired of the brilliancy and din of Naples, most noisy of cities. Neapolis,
or Parthenope, as is well known, was founded by Parthenope, a siren who was cast ashore there.
Her descendants still live here; and we have become a little weary of their inherited musical
ability: they have learned to play upon many new instruments, with which they keep us awake
late at night, and arouse us early in the morning. One of them is always there under the window,
where the moonlight will strike him, or the early dawn will light up his love-worn visage,
strumming the guitar with his horny thumb, and wailing through his nose as if his throat was
full of seaweed. He is as inexhaustible as Vesuvius. We shall have to flee, or stop our ears
with wax, like the sailors of Ulysses.

The day came when we had checked off the Posilipo, and the Grotto, Pozzuoli, Baiae, Cape Misenum,
the Museum, Vesuvius, Pompeii, Herculaneum, the moderns buried at the Campo Santo; and we said,
Let us go and lie in the sun at Sorrento. But first let us settle our geography.

The Bay of Naples, painted and sung forever, but never adequately, must consent to be here
described as essentially a parallelogram, with an opening towards the southwest. The northeast
side of this, with Naples in the right-hand corner, looking seaward and Castellamare in the
left-hand corner, at a distance of some fourteen miles, is a vast rich plain, fringed on the
shore with towns, and covered with white houses and gardens. Out of this rises the isolated
bulk of Vesuvius. This growing mountain is manufactured exactly like an ant-hill.

The northwest side of the bay, keeping a general westerly direction, is very uneven, with headlands,
deep bays, and outlying islands. First comes the promontory of Posilipo, pierced by two tunnels,
partly natural and partly Greek and Roman work, above the entrance of one of which is the tomb
of Virgil, let us believe; then a beautiful bay, the shore of which is incrusted with classic
ruins. On this bay stands Pozzuoli, the ancient Puteoli where St. Paul landed one May day,
and doubtless walked up this paved road, which leads direct to Rome. At the entrance, near
the head of Posilipo, is the volcanic island of "shining Nisida," to which Brutus retired after
the assassination of Caesar, and where he bade Portia good-by before he departed for Greece
and Philippi: the favorite villa of Cicero, where he wrote many of his letters to Atticus,
looked on it. Baiae, epitome of the luxury and profligacy, of the splendor and crime of the
most sensual years of the Roman empire, spread there its temples, palaces, and pleasure-gardens,
which crowded the low slopes, and extended over the water; and yonder is Cape Misenum, which
sheltered the great fleets of Rome.

This region, which is still shaky from fires bubbling under the thin crust, through which here
and there the sulphurous vapor breaks out, is one of the most sacred in the ancient world.
Here are the Lucrine Lake, the Elysian Fields, the cave of the Cumean Sibyl, and the Lake Avernus.
This entrance to the infernal regions was frozen over the day I saw it; so that the profane
prophecy of skating on the bottomless pit might have been realized. The islands of Procida
and Ischia continue and complete this side of the bay, which is about twenty miles long as
the boat sails.

At Castellamare the shore makes a sharp bend, and runs southwest along the side of the Sorrentine
promontory. This promontory is a high, rocky, diversified ridge, which extends out between
the bays of Naples and Salerno, with its short and precipitous slope towards the latter. Below
Castellamare, the mountain range of the Great St. Angelo (an offshoot of the Apennines) runs
across the peninsula, and cuts off that portion of it which we have to consider. The most conspicuous
of the three parts of this short range is over four thousand seven hundred feet above the Bay
of Naples, and the highest land on it. From Great St. Angelo to the point, the Punta di Campanella,
it is, perhaps, twelve miles by balloon, but twenty by any other conveyance. Three miles off
this point lies Capri.

This promontory has a backbone of rocky ledges and hills; but it has at intervals transverse
ledges and ridges, and deep valleys and chains cutting in from either side; so that it is not
very passable in any direction. These little valleys and bays are warm nooks for the olive
and the orange; and all the precipices and sunny slopes are terraced nearly to the top. This
promontory of rocks is far from being barren.

From Castellamare, driving along a winding, rockcut road by the bay,--one of the most charming
in southern Italy,--a distance of seven miles, we reach the Punta di Scutolo. This point, and
the opposite headland, the Capo di Sorrento, inclose the Piano di Sorrento, an irregular plain,
three miles long, encircled by limestone hills, which protect it from the east and south winds.
In this amphitheater it lies, a mass of green foliage and white villages, fronting Naples and
Vesuvius.

If nature first scooped out this nook level with the sea, and then filled it up to a depth
of two hundred to three hundred feet with volcanic tufa, forming a precipice of that height
along the shore, I can understand how the present state of things came about.

This plain is not all level, however. Decided spurs push down into it from the hills; and great
chasms, deep, ragged, impassable, split in the tufa, extend up into it from the sea. At intervals,
at the openings of these ravines, are little marinas, where the fishermen have their huts'
and where their boats land. Little villages, separate from the world, abound on these marinas.
The warm volcanic soil of the sheltered plain makes it a paradise of fruits and flowers.

Sorrento, ancient and romantic city, lies at the southwest end of this plain, built along the
sheer sea precipice, and running back to the hills,--a city of such narrow streets, high walls,
and luxuriant groves that it can be seen only from the heights adjacent. The ancient boundary
of the city proper was the famous ravine on the east side, a similar ravine on the south, which
met it at right angles, and was supplemented by a high Roman wall, and the same wall continued
on the west to the sea. The growing town has pushed away the wall on the west side; but that
on the south yet stands as good as when the Romans made it. There is a little attempt at a
mall, with double rows of trees, under that wall, where lovers walk, and ragged, handsome urchins
play the exciting game of fives, or sit in the dirt, gambling with cards for the Sorrento currency.
I do not know what sin it may be to gamble for a bit of printed paper which has the value of
one sou.

The great ravine, three quarters of a mile long, the ancient boundary which now cuts the town
in two, is bridged where the main street, the Corso, crosses, the bridge resting on old Roman
substructions, as everything else about here does. This ravine, always invested with mystery,
is the theme of no end of poetry and legend. Demons inhabit it. Here and there, in its perpendicular
sides, steps have been cut for descent. Vines and lichens grow on the walls: in one place,
at the bottom, an orange grove has taken root. There is even a mill down there, where there
is breadth enough for a building; and altogether, the ravine is not so delivered over to the
power of darkness as it used to be. It is still damp and slimy, it is true; but from above,
it is always beautiful, with its luxuriant growth of vines, and at twilight mysterious. I like
as well, however, to look into its entrance from the little marina, where the old fishwives
are weaving nets.

These little settlements under the cliff, called marinas, are worlds in themselves, picturesque
at a distance, but squalid seen close at hand. They are not very different from the little
fishing-stations on the Isle of Wight; but they are more sheltered, and their inhabitants sing
at their work, wear bright colors, and bask in the sun a good deal, feeling no sense of responsibility
for the world they did not create. To weave nets, to fish in the bay, to sell their fish at
the wharves, to eat unexciting vegetables and fish, to drink moderately, to go to the chapel
of St. Antonino on Sunday, not to work on fast and feast days, nor more than compelled to any
day, this is life at the marinas. Their world is what they can see, and Naples is distant and
almost foreign. Generation after generation is content with the same simple life. They have
no more idea of the bad way the world is in than bees in their cells.

THE VILLA NARDI

The Villa Nardi hangs over the sea. It is built on a rock, and I know not what Roman and Greek
foundations, and the remains of yet earlier peoples, traders, and traffickers, whose galleys
used to rock there at the base of the cliff, where the gentle waves beat even in this winter-time
with a summer swing and sound of peace.

It was at the close of a day in January that I first knew the Villa Nardi,--a warm, lovely
day, at the hour when the sun was just going behind the Capo di Sorrento, in order to disrobe
a little, I fancy, before plunging into the Mediterranean off the end of Capri, as is his wont
about this time of year. When we turned out of the little piazza, our driver was obliged to
take off one of our team of three horses driven abreast, so that we could pass through the
narrow and crooked streets, or rather lanes of blank walls. With cracking whip, rattling wheels,
and shouting to clear the way, we drove into the Strada di San Francisca, and to an arched
gateway. This led down a straight path, between olives and orange and lemon-trees, gleaming
with shining leaves and fruit of gold, with hedges of rose-trees in full bloom, to another
leafy arch, through which I saw tropical trees, and a terrace with a low wall and battered
busts guarding it, and beyond, the blue sea, a white sail or two slanting across the opening,
and the whiteness of Naples some twenty miles away on the shore.

The noble family of the Villa did not descend into the garden to welcome us, as we should have
liked; in fact, they have been absent now for a long time, so long that even their ghosts,
if they ever pace the terrace-walk towards the convent, would appear strange to one who should
meet them; and yet our hostess, the Tramontano, did what the ancient occupants scarcely could
have done, gave us the choice of rooms in the entire house. The stranger who finds himself
in this secluded paradise, at this season, is always at a loss whether to take a room on the
sea, with all its changeable loveliness, but no sun, or one overlooking the garden, where the
sun all day pours itself into the orange boughs, and where the birds are just beginning to
get up a spring twitteration. My friend, whose capacity for taking in the luxurious repose
of this region is something extraordinary, has tried, I believe, nearly every room in the house,
and has at length gone up to a solitary room on the top, where, like a bird on a tree he looks
all ways, and, so to say, swings in the entrancing air. But, wherever you are, you will grow
into content with your situation.

At the Villa Nardi we have no sound of wheels, no noise of work or traffic, no suggestion of
conflict. I am under the impression that everything that was to have been done has been done.
I am, it is true, a little afraid that the Saracens will come here again, and carry off more
of the nut-brown girls, who lean over the walls, and look down on us from under the boughs.
I am not quite sure that a French Admiral of the Republic will not some morning anchor his
three-decker in front, and open fire on us; but nothing else can happen. Naples is a thousand
miles away. The boom of the saluting guns of Castel Nuovo is to us scarcely an echo of modern
life. Rome does not exist. And as for London and New York, they send their people and their
newspapers here, but no pulse of unrest from them disturbs our tranquillity. Hemmed in on the
land side by high walls, groves, and gardens, perched upon a rock two hundred feet above the
water, how much more secure from invasion is this than any fabled island of the southern sea,
or any remote stream where the boats of the lotus-eaters float!

There is a little terrace and flower-plat, where we sometimes sit, and over the wall of which
we like to lean, and look down the cliff to the sea. This terrace is the common ground of many
exotics as well as native trees and shrubs. Here are the magnolia, the laurel, the Japanese
medlar, the oleander, the pepper, the bay, the date-palm, a tree called the plumbago, another
from the Cape of Good Hope, the pomegranate, the elder in full leaf, the olive, salvia, heliotrope;
close by is a banana-tree.

I find a good deal of companionship in the rows of plaster busts that stand on the wall, in
all attitudes of listlessness, and all stages of decay. I thought at first they were penates
of the premises; but better acquaintance has convinced me that they never were gods, but the
clayey representations of great men and noble dames. The stains of time are on them; some have
lost a nose or an ear; and one has parted with a still more important member--his head,--an
accident that might profitably have befallen his neighbor, whose curly locks and villainously
low forehead proclaim him a Roman emperor. Cut in the face of the rock is a walled and winding
way down to the water. I see below the archway where it issues from the underground recesses
of our establishment; and there stands a bust, in serious expectation that some one will walk
out and saunter down among the rocks; but no one ever does. Just at the right is a little beach,
with a few old houses, and a mimic stir of life, a little curve in the cliff, the mouth of
the gorge, where the waves come in with a lazy swash. Some fishing-boats ride there; and the
shallow water, as I look down this sunny morning, is thickly strewn with floating peels of
oranges and lemons, as if some one was brewing a gigantic bowl of punch. And there is an uncommon
stir of life; for a schooner is shipping a cargo of oranges, and the entire population is in
a clamor. Donkeys are coming down the winding way, with a heavy basket on either flank; stout
girls are stepping lightly down with loads on their heads; the drivers shout, the donkeys bray,
the people jabber and order each other about; and the oranges, in a continual stream, are poured
into the long, narrow vessel, rolling in with a thud, until there is a yellow mass of them.
Shouting, scolding, singing, and braying, all come up to me a little mellowed. The disorder
is not so great as on the opera stage of San Carlo in Naples; and the effect is much more pleasing.

This settlement, the marina, under the cliff, used to extend along the shore; and a good road
ran down there close by the water. The rock has split off, and covered it; and perhaps the
shore has sunk. They tell me that those who dig down in the edge of the shallow water find
sunken walls, and the remains of old foundations of Roman workmanship. People who wander there
pick up bits of marble, serpentine, and malachite,--remains of the palaces that long ago fell
into the sea, and have not left even the names of their owners and builders,-the ancient loafers
who idled away their days as everybody must in this seductive spot. Not far from here, they
point out the veritable caves of the Sirens, who have now shut up house, and gone away, like
the rest of the nobility. If I had been a mariner in their day, I should have made no effort
to sail by and away from their soothing shore.

I went, one day, through a long, sloping arch, near the sailors' Chapel of St. Antonino, past
a pretty shrine of the Virgin, down the zigzag path to this little marina; but it is better
to be content with looking at it from above, and imagining how delightful it would be to push
off in one of the little tubs of boats. Sometimes, at night, I hear the fishermen coming home,
singing in their lusty fashion; and I think it is a good haven to arrive at. I never go down
to search for stones on the beach: I like to believe that there are great treasures there,
which I might find; and I know that the green and brown and spotty appearance of the water
is caused by the showing through of the pavements of courts, and marble floors of palaces,
which might vanish if I went nearer, such a place of illusion is this.

The Villa Nardi stands in pleasant relations to Vesuvius, which is just across the bay, and
is not so useless as it has been represented; it is our weather-sign and prophet. When the
white plume on his top floats inland, that is one sort of weather; when it streams out to sea,
that is another. But I can never tell which is which: nor in my experience does it much matter;
for it seems impossible for Sorrento to do anything but woo us with gentle weather. But the
use of Vesuvius, after all, is to furnish us a background for the violet light at sundown,
when the villages at its foot gleam like a silver fringe. I have become convinced of one thing:
it is always best when you build a house to have it front toward a volcano, if you can. There
is just that lazy activity about a volcano, ordinarily, that satisfies your demand for something
that is not exactly dead, and yet does not disturb you.

Sometimes when I wake in the night,--though I don't know why one ever wakes in the night, or
the daytime either here,--I hear the bell of the convent, which is in our demesne,--a convent
which is suppressed, and where I hear, when I pass in the morning, the humming of a school.
At first I tried to count the hour; but when the bell went on to strike seventeen, and even
twenty-one o'clock, the absurdity of the thing came over me, and I wondered whether it was
some frequent call to prayer for a feeble band of sisters remaining, some reminder of midnight
penance and vigil, or whether it was not something more ghostly than that, and was not responded
to by shades of nuns, who were wont to look out from their narrow latticed windows upon these
same gardens, as long ago as when the beautiful Queen Joanna used to come down here to repent--if
she ever did repent--of her wanton ways in Naples.

On one side of the garden is a suppressed monastery. The narrow front towards the sea has a
secluded little balcony, where I like to fancy the poor orphaned souls used to steal out at
night for a breath of fresh air, and perhaps to see, as I did one dark evening, Naples with
its lights like a conflagration on the horizon. Upon the tiles of the parapet are cheerful
devices, the crossbones tied with a cord, and the like. How many heavy-hearted recluses have
stood in that secluded nook, and been tempted by the sweet, lulling sound of the waves below;
how many have paced along this narrow terrace, and felt like prisoners who wore paths in the
stone floor where they trod; and how many stupid louts have walked there, insensible to all
the charm of it!

If I pass into the Tramontano garden, it is not to escape the presence of history, or to get
into the modern world, where travelers are arriving, and where there is the bustle and proverbial
discontent of those who travel to enjoy themselves. In the pretty garden, which is a constant
surprise of odd nooks and sunny hiding-places, with ruins, and most luxuriant ivy, is a little
cottage where, I am told in confidence, the young king of Bavaria slept three nights not very
long ago. I hope he slept well. But more important than the sleep, or even death, of a king,
is the birth of a poet, I take it; and within this inclosure, on the eleventh day of March,
1541, Torquato Tasso, most melancholy of men, first saw the light; and here was born his noble
sister Cornelia, the descendants of whose union with the cavalier Spasiano still live here,
and in a manner keep the memory of the poet green with the present generation. I am indebted
to a gentleman who is of this lineage for many favors, and for precise information as to the
position in the house that stood here of the very room in which Tasso was born. It is also
minutely given in a memoir of Tasso and his family, by Bartolommeo Capasso, whose careful researches
have disproved the slipshod statements of the guidebooks, that the poet was born in a house
which is still standing, farther to the west, and that the room has fallen into the sea. The
descendant of the sister pointed out to me the spot on the terrace of the Tramontano where
the room itself was, when the house still stood; and, of course, seeing is believing. The sun
shone full upon it, as we stood there; and the air was full of the scent of tropical fruit
and just-coming blossoms. One could not desire a more tranquil scene of advent into life; and
the wandering, broken-hearted author of "Jerusalem Delivered" never found at court or palace
any retreat so soothing as that offered him here by his steadfast sister.

If I were an antiquarian, I think I should have had Tasso born at the Villa Nardi, where I
like best to stay, and where I find traces of many pilgrims from other countries. Here, in
a little corner room on the terrace, Mrs. Stowe dreamed and wrote; and I expect, every morning,
as I take my morning sun here by the gate, Agnes of Sorrento will come down the sweet-scented
path with a basket of oranges on her head.

SEA AND SHORE

It is not always easy, when one stands upon the highlands which encircle the Piano di Sorrento,
in some conditions of the atmosphere, to tell where the sea ends and the sky begins. It seems
practicable, at such times, for one to take ship and sail up into heaven. I have often, indeed,
seen white sails climbing up there, and fishing-boats, at secure anchor I suppose, riding apparently
like balloons in the hazy air. Sea and air and land here are all kin, I suspect, and have certain
immaterial qualities in common. The contours of the shores and the outlines of the hills are
as graceful as the mobile waves; and if there is anywhere ruggedness and sharpness, the atmosphere
throws a friendly veil over it, and tones all that is inharmonious into the repose of beauty.

The atmosphere is really something more than a medium: it is a drapery, woven, one could affirm,
with colors, or dipped in oriental dyes. One might account thus for the prismatic colors I
have often seen on the horizon at noon, when the sun was pouring down floods of clear golden
light. The simple light here, if one could ever represent it by pen, pencil, or brush, would
draw the world hither to bathe in it. It is not thin sunshine, but a royal profusion, a golden
substance, a transforming quality, a vesture of splendor for all these Mediterranean shores.

The most comprehensive idea of Sorrento and the great plain on which it stands, imbedded almost
out of sight in foliage, we obtained one day from our boat, as we put out round the Capo di
Sorrento, and stood away for Capri. There was not wind enough for sails, but there were chopping
waves, and swell enough to toss us about, and to produce bright flashes of light far out at
sea. The red-shirted rowers silently bent to their long sweeps; and I lay in the tossing bow,
and studied the high, receding shore. The picture is simple, a precipice of rock or earth,
faced with masonry in spots, almost of uniform height from point to point of the little bay,
except where a deep gorge has split the rock, and comes to the sea, forming a cove, where a
cluster of rude buildings is likely to gather. Along the precipice, which now juts and now
recedes a little, are villas, hotels, old convents, gardens, and groves. I can see steps and
galleries cut in the face of the cliff, and caves and caverns, natural and artificial: for
one can cut this tufa with a knife; and it would hardly seem preposterous to attempt to dig
out a cool, roomy mansion in this rocky front with a spade.

As we pull away, I begin to see the depth of the plain of Sorrento, with its villages, walled
roads, its groves of oranges, olives, lemons, its figs, pomegranates, almonds, mulberries,
and acacias; and soon the terraces above, where the vineyards are planted, and the olives also.
These terraces must be a brave sight in the spring, when the masses of olives are white as
snow with blossoms, which fill all the plain with their sweet perfume. Above the terraces,
the eye reaches the fine outline of the hill; and, to the east, the bare precipice of rock,
softened by the purple light; and turning still to the left, as the boat lazily swings, I have
Vesuvius, the graceful dip into the plain, and the rise to the heights of Naples, Nisida, the
shining houses of Pozzuoli, Cape Misenum, Procida, and rough Ischia. Rounding the headland,
Capri is before us, so sharp and clear that we seem close to it; but it is a weary pull before
we get under its rocky side.

Returning from Capri late in the afternoon, we had one of those effects which are the despair
of artists. I had been told that twilights are short here, and that, when the sun disappeared,
color vanished from the sky. There was a wonderful light on all the inner bay, as we put off
from shore. Ischia was one mass of violet color, As we got from under the island, there was
the sun, a red ball of fire, just dipping into the sea. At once the whole horizon line of water
became a bright crimson, which deepened as evening advanced, glowing with more intense fire,
and holding a broad band of what seemed solid color for more than three quarters of an hour.
The colors, meantime, on the level water, never were on painter's palette, and never were counterfeited
by the changeable silks of eastern looms; and this gorgeous spectacle continued till the stars
came out, crowding the sky with silver points.

Our boatmen, who had been reinforced at Capri, and were inspired either by the wine of the
island or the beauty of the night, pulled with new vigor, and broke out again and again into
the wild songs of this coast. A favorite was the Garibaldi song, which invariably ended in
a cheer and a tiger, and threw the singers into such a spurt of excitement that the oars forgot
to keep time, and there was more splash than speed. The singers all sang one part in minor:
there was no harmony, the voices were not rich, and the melody was not remarkable; but there
was, after all, a wild pathos in it. Music is very much here what it is in Naples. I have to
keep saying to myself that Italy is a land of song; else I should think that people mistake
noise for music.

The boatmen are an honest set of fellows, as Italians go; and, let us hope, not unworthy followers
of their patron, St. Antonino, whose chapel is on the edge of the gorge near the Villa Nardi.
A silver image of the saint, half life-size, stands upon the rich marble altar. This valuable
statue has been, if tradition is correct, five times captured and carried away by marauders,
who have at different times sacked Sorrento of its marbles, bronzes, and precious things, and
each time, by some mysterious providence, has found its way back again,--an instance of constancy
in a solid silver image which is worthy of commendation. The little chapel is hung all about
with votive offerings in wax of arms, legs, heads, hands, effigies, and with coarse lithographs,
in frames, of storms at sea and perils of ships, hung up by sailors who, having escaped the
dangers of the deep, offer these tributes to their dear saint. The skirts of the image are
worn quite smooth with kissing. Underneath it, at the back of the altar, an oil light is always
burning; and below repose the bones of the holy man.

The whole shore is fascinating to one in an idle mood, and is good mousing-ground for the antiquarian.
For myself, I am content with one generalization, which I find saves a world of bother and
perplexity: it is quite safe to style every excavation, cavern, circular wall, or arch by the
sea, a Roman bath. It is the final resort of the antiquarians. This theory has kept me from
entering the discussion, whether the substructions in the cliff under the Poggio Syracuse,
a royal villa, are temples of the Sirens, or caves of Ulysses. I only know that I descend to
the sea there by broad interior flights of steps, which lead through galleries and corridors,
and high, vaulted passages, whence extend apartments and caves far reaching into the solid
rock. At intervals are landings, where arched windows are cut out to the sea, with stone seats
and protecting walls. At the base of the cliff I find a hewn passage, as if there had once
been here a way of embarkation; and enormous fragments of rocks, with steps cut in them, which
have fallen from above.

Were these anything more than royal pleasure galleries, where one could sit in coolness in
the heat of summer and look on the bay and its shipping, in the days when the great Roman fleet
used to lie opposite, above the point of Misenum? How many brave and gay retinues have swept
down these broad interior stairways, let us say in the picturesque Middle Ages, to embark on
voyages of pleasure or warlike forays! The steps are well worn, and must have been trodden
for ages, by nobles and robbers, peasants and sailors, priests of more than one religion, and
traders of many seas, who have gone, and left no record. The sun was slanting his last rays
into the corridors as I musingly looked down from one of the arched openings, quite spellbound
by the strangeness and dead silence of the place, broken only by the plash of waves on the
sandy beach below. I had found my way down through a wooden door half ajar; and I thought of
the possibility of some one's shutting it for the night, and leaving me a prisoner to await
the spectres which I have no doubt throng here when it grows dark. Hastening up out of these
chambers of the past, I escaped into the upper air, and walked rapidly home through the narrow
orange lanes.

ON TOP OF THE HOUSE

The tiptop of the Villa Nardi is a flat roof, with a wall about it three feet high, and some
little turreted affairs, that look very much like chimneys. Joseph, the gray-haired servitor,
has brought my chair and table up here to-day, and here I am, established to write.

I am here above most earthly annoyances, and on a level with the heavenly influences. It has
always seemed to me that the higher one gets, the easier it must be to write; and that, especially
at a great elevation, one could strike into lofty themes, and launch out, without fear of shipwreck
on any of the earthly headlands, in his aerial voyages. Yet, after all, he would be likely
to arrive nowhere, I suspect; or, to change the figure, to find that, in parting with the taste
of the earth, he had produced a flavorless composition. If it were not for the haze in the
horizon to-day, I could distinguish the very house in Naples--that of Manso, Marquis of Villa,--where
Tasso found a home, and where John Milton was entertained at a later day by that hospitable
nobleman. I wonder, if he had come to the Villa Nardi and written on the roof, if the theological
features of his epic would have been softened, and if he would not have received new suggestions
for the adornment of the garden. Of course, it is well that his immortal production was not
composed on this roof, and in sight of these seductive shores, or it would have been more strongly
flavored with classic mythology than it is. But, letting Milton go, it may be necessary to
say that my writing to-day has nothing to do with my theory of composition in an elevated position;
for this is the laziest place that I have yet found.

I am above the highest olive-trees, and, if I turned that way, should look over the tops of
what seems a vast grove of them, out of which a white roof, and an old time-eaten tower here
and there, appears; and the sun is flooding them with waves of light, which I think a person
delicately enough organized could hear beat. Beyond the brown roofs of the town, the terraced
hills arise, in semicircular embrace of the plain; and the fine veil over them is partly the
natural shimmer of the heat, and partly the silver duskiness of the olive-leaves. I sit with
my back to all this, taking the entire force of this winter sun, which is full of life and
genial heat, and does not scorch one, as I remember such a full flood of it would at home.
It is putting sweetness, too, into the oranges, which, I observe, are getting redder and softer
day by day. We have here, by the way, such a habit of taking up an orange, weighing it in the
hand, and guessing if it is ripe, that the test is extending to other things. I saw a gentleman
this morning, at breakfast, weighing an egg in the same manner; and some one asked him if it
was ripe.

It seems to me that the Mediterranean was never bluer than it is to-day. It has a shade or
two the advantage of the sky: though I like the sky best, after all; for it is less opaque,
and offers an illimitable opportunity of exploration. Perhaps this is because I am nearer to
it. There are some little ruffles of air on the sea, which I do not feel here, making broad
spots of shadow, and here and there flecks and sparkles. But the schooners sail idly, and the
fishing-boats that have put out from the marina float in the most dreamy manner. I fear that
the fishermen who have made a show of industry, and got away from their wives, who are busily
weaving nets on shore, are yielding to the seductions of the occasion, and making a day of
it. And, as I look at them, I find myself debating which I would rather be, a fisherman there
in the boat, rocked by the swell, and warmed by the sun, or a friar, on the terrace of the
garden on the summit of Deserto, lying perfectly tranquil, and also soaked in the sun. There
is one other person, now that I think of it, who may be having a good time to-day, though I
do not know that I envy him. His business is a new one to me, and is an occupation that one
would not care to recommend to a friend until he had tried it: it is being carried about in
a basket. As I went up the new Massa road the other day, I met a ragged, stout, and rather
dirty woman, with a large shallow basket on her head. In it lay her husband, a large man, though
I think a little abbreviated as to his legs. The woman asked alms. Talk of Diogenes in his
tub! How must the world look to a man in a basket, riding about on his wife's head? When I
returned, she had put him down beside the road in the sun, and almost in danger of the passing
vehicles. I suppose that the affectionate creature thought that, if he got a new injury in
this way, his value in the beggar market would be increased. I do not mean to do this exemplary
wife any injustice; and I only suggest the idea in this land, where every beggar who is born
with a deformity has something to thank the Virgin for. This custom of carrying your husband
on your head in a basket has something to recommend it, and is an exhibition of faith on the
one hand, and of devotion on the other, that is seldom met with. Its consideration is commended
to my countrywomen at home. It is, at least, a new commentary on the apostolic remark, that
the man is the head of the woman. It is, in some respects, a happy division of labor in the
walk of life: she furnishes the locomotive power, and he the directing brains, as he lies in
the sun and looks abroad; which reminds me that the sun is getting hot on my back. The little
bunch of bells in the convent tower is jangling out a suggestion of worship, or of the departure
of the hours. It is time to eat an orange.

Vesuvius appears to be about on a level with my eyes and I never knew him to do himself more
credit than to-day. The whole coast of the bay is in a sort of obscuration, thicker than an
Indian summer haze; and the veil extends almost to the top of Vesuvius. But his summit is still
distinct, and out of it rises a gigantic billowy column of white smoke, greater in quantity
than on any previous day of our sojourn; and the sun turns it to silver. Above a long line
of ordinary looking clouds, float great white masses, formed of the sulphurous vapor. This
manufacture of clouds in a clear, sunny day has an odd appearance; but it is easy enough, if
one has such a laboratory as Vesuvius. How it tumbles up the white smoke! It is piled up now,
I should say, a thousand feet above the crater, straight into the blue sky,--a pillar of cloud
by day. One might sit here all day watching it, listening the while to the melodious spring
singing of the hundreds of birds which have come to take possession of the garden, receiving
southern reinforcements from Sicily and Tunis every morning, and think he was happy. But the
morning has gone; and I have written nothing.

THE PRICE OF ORANGES

If ever a northern wanderer could be suddenly transported to look down upon the Piano di Sorrento,
he would not doubt that he saw the Garden of the Hesperides. The orange-trees cannot well be
fuller: their branches bend with the weight of fruit. With the almond-trees in full flower,
and with the silver sheen of the olive leaves, the oranges are apples of gold in pictures of
silver. As I walk in these sunken roads, and between these high walls, the orange boughs everywhere
hang over; and through the open gates of villas I look down alleys of golden glimmer, roses
and geraniums by the walk, and the fruit above,--gardens of enchantment, with never a dragon,
that I can see, to guard them.

All the highways and the byways, the streets and lanes, wherever I go, from the sea to the
tops of the hills, are strewn with orange-peel; so that one, looking above and below, comes
back from a walk with a golden dazzle in his eyes,--a sense that yellow is the prevailing color.
Perhaps the kerchiefs of the dark-skinned girls and women, which take that tone, help the impression.
The inhabitants are all orange-eaters. The high walls show that the gardens are protected with
great care; yet the fruit seems to be as free as apples are in a remote New England town about
cider-time.

I have been trying, ever since I have been here, to ascertain the price of oranges; not for
purposes of exportation, nor yet for the personal importation that I daily practice, but in
order to give an American basis of fact to these idle chapters. In all the paths I meet, daily,
girls and boys bearing on their heads large baskets of the fruit, and little children with
bags and bundles of the same, as large as they can stagger under; and I understand they are
carrying them to the packers, who ship them to New York, or to the depots, where I see them
lying in yellow heaps, and where men and women are cutting them up, and removing the peel,
which goes to England for preserves. I am told that these oranges are sold for a couple of
francs a hundred. That seems to me so dear that I am not tempted into any speculation, but
stroll back to the Tramontano, in the gardens of which I find better terms.

The only trouble is to find a sweet tree; for the Sorrento oranges are usually sour in February;
and one needs to be a good judge of the fruit, and know the male orange from the female, though
which it is that is the sweeter I can never remember (and should not dare to say, if I did,
in the present state of feeling on the woman question),--or he might as well eat a lemon. The
mercenary aspect of my query does not enter in here. I climb into a tree, and reach out to
the end of the branch for an orange that has got reddish in the sun, that comes off easily
and is heavy; or I tickle a large one on the top bough with a cane pole; and if it drops readily,
and has a fine grain, I call it a cheap one. I can usually tell whether they are good by splitting
them open and eating a quarter. The Italians pare their oranges as we do apples; but I like
best to open them first, and see the yellow meat in the white casket. After you have eaten
a few from one tree, you can usually tell whether it is a good tree; but there is nothing certain
about it,--one bough that gets the sun will be better than another that does not, and one half
of an orange will fill your mouth with more delicious juices than the other half.

The oranges that you knock off with your stick, as you walk along the lanes, don't cost anything;
but they are always sour, as I think the girls know who lean over the wall, and look on with
a smile: and, in that, they are more sensible than the lively dogs which bark at you from the
top, and wake all the neighborhood with their clamor. I have no doubt the oranges have a market
price; but I have been seeking the value the gardeners set on them themselves. As I walked
towards the heights, the other morning, and passed an orchard, the gardener, who saw my ineffectual
efforts, with a very long cane, to reach the boughs of a tree, came down to me with a basketful
he had been picking. As an experiment on the price, I offered him a two-centime piece, which
is a sort of satire on the very name of money,--when he desired me to help myself to as many
oranges as I liked. He was a fine-looking fellow, with a spick-span new red Phrygian cap; and
I had n't the heart to take advantage of his generosity, especially as his oranges were not
of the sweetest. One ought never to abuse generosity.

Another experience was of a different sort, and illustrates the Italian love of bargaining,
and their notion of a sliding scale of prices. One of our expeditions to the hills was one
day making its long, straggling way through the narrow street of a little village of the Piano,
when I lingered behind my companions, attracted by a handcart with several large baskets of
oranges. The cart stood untended in the street; and selecting a large orange, which would measure
twelve inches in circumference, I turned to look for the owner. After some time a fellow got
from the open front of the neighboring cobbler's shop, where he sat with his lazy cronies,
listening to the honest gossip of the follower of St. Crispin, and sauntered towards me.

"How much for this?" I ask.

"One franc, signor," says the proprietor, with a polite bow, holding up one finger.

I shake my head, and intimate that that is altogether too much, in fact, preposterous.

The proprietor is very indifferent, and shrugs his shoulders in an amiable manner. He picks
up a fair, handsome orange, weighs it in his hand, and holds it up temptingly. That also is
one, franc.

I suggest one sou as a fair price, a suggestion which he only receives with a smile of slight
pity, and, I fancy, a little disdain. A woman joins him, and also holds up this and that gold-skinned
one for my admiration.

As I stand, sorting over the fruit, trying to please myself with size, color, and texture,
a little crowd has gathered round; and I see, by a glance, that all the occupations in that
neighborhood, including loafing, are temporarily suspended to witness the trade. The interest
of the circle visibly increases; and others take such a part in the transaction that I begin
to doubt if the first man is, after all, the proprietor.

At length I select two oranges, and again demand the price. There is a little consultation
and jabber, when I am told that I can have both for a franc. I, in turn, sigh, shrug my shoulders,
and put down the oranges, amid a chorus of exclamations over my graspingness. My offer of two
sous is met with ridicule, but not with indifference. I can see that it has made a sensation.
These simple, idle children of the sun begin to show a little excitement. I at length determine
upon a bold stroke, and resolve to show myself the Napoleon of oranges, or to meet my Waterloo.
I pick out four of the largest oranges in the basket, while all eyes are fixed on me intently,
and, for the first time, pull out a piece of money. It is a two-sous piece. I offer it for
the four oranges.

"No, no, no, no, signor! Ah, signor! ah, signor!" in a chorus from the whole crowd.

I have struck bottom at last, and perhaps got somewhere near the value; and all calmness is
gone. Such protestations, such indignation, such sorrow, I have never seen before from so small
a cause. It cannot be thought of; it is mere ruin! I am, in turn, as firm, and nearly as excited
in seeming. I hold up the fruit, and tender the money.

"No, never, never! The signor cannot be in earnest."

Looking round me for a moment, and assuming a theatrical manner, befitting the gestures of
those about me, I fling the fruit down, and, with a sublime renunciation, stalk away.

There is instantly a buzz and a hum that rises almost to a clamor. I have not proceeded far,
when a skinny old woman runs after me, and begs me to return. I go back, and the crowd parts
to receive me.

The proprietor has a new proposition, the effect of which upon me is intently watched. He proposes
to give me five big oranges for four sous. I receive it with utter scorn, and a laugh of derision.
I will give two sous for the original four, and not a centesimo more. That I solemnly say,
and am ready to depart. Hesitation and renewed conference; but at last the proprietor relents;
and, with the look of one who is ruined for life, and who yet is willing to sacrifice himself,
he hands me the oranges. Instantly the excitement is dead, the crowd disperses, and the street
is as quiet as ever; when I walk away, bearing my hard-won treasures.

A little while after, as I sat upon the outer wall of the terrace of the Camaldoli, with my
feet hanging over, these same oranges were taken from my pockets by Americans; so that I am
prevented from making any moral reflections upon the honesty of the Italians.

There is an immense garden of oranges and lemons at the village of Massa, through which travelers
are shown by a surly fellow, who keeps watch of his trees, and has a bulldog lurking about
for the unwary. I hate to see a bulldog in a fruit orchard. I have eaten a good many oranges
there, and been astonished at the boughs of immense lemons which bend the trees to the ground.
I took occasion to measure one of the lemons, called a citron-lemon, and found its circumference
to be twenty-one inches one way by fifteen inches the other,--about as big as a railway conductor's
lantern. These lemons are not so sour as the fellow who shows them: he is a mercenary dog,
and his prices afford me no clew to the just value of oranges.

I like better to go to a little garden in the village of Meta, under a sunny precipice of rocks
overhung by the ruined convent of Camaldoli. I turn up a narrow lane, and push open the wooden
door in the garden of a little villa. It is a pretty garden; and, besides the orange and lemon-trees
on the terrace, it has other fruit-trees, and a scent of many flowers. My friend, the gardener,
is sorting oranges from one basket to another, on a green bank, and evidently selling the fruit
to some women, who are putting it into bags to carry away.

When he sees me approach, there is always the same pantomime. I propose to take some of the
fruit he is sorting. With a knowing air, and an appearance of great mystery, he raises his
left hand, the palm toward me, as one says hush. Having dispatched his business, he takes an
empty basket, and with another mysterious flourish, desiring me to remain quiet, he goes to
a storehouse in one corner of the garden, and returns with a load of immense oranges, all soaked
with the sun, ripe and fragrant, and more tempting than lumps of gold. I take one, and ask
him if it is sweet. He shrugs his shoulders, raises his hands, and, with a sidewise shake of
the head, and a look which says, How can you be so faithless? makes me ashamed of my doubts.

I cut the thick skin, which easily falls apart and discloses the luscious quarters, plump,
juicy, and waiting to melt in the mouth. I look for a moment at the rich pulp in its soft incasement,
and then try a delicious morsel. I nod. My gardener again shrugs his shoulders, with a slight
smile, as much as to say, It could not be otherwise, and is evidently delighted to have me
enjoy his fruit. I fill capacious pockets with the choicest; and, if I have friends with me,
they do the same. I give our silent but most expressive entertainer half a franc, never more;
and he always seems surprised at the size of the largesse. We exhaust his basket, and he proposes
to get more.

When I am alone, I stroll about under the heavily-laden trees, and pick up the largest, where
they lie thickly on the ground, liking to hold them in my hand and feel the agreeable weight,
even when I can carry away no more. The gardener neither follows nor watches me; and I think
perhaps knows, and is not stingy about it, that more valuable to me than the oranges I eat
or take away are those on the trees among the shining leaves. And perhaps he opines that I
am from a country of snow and ice, where the year has six hostile months, and that I have not
money enough to pay for the rich possession of the eye, the picture of beauty, which I take
with me.

FASCINATION

There are three places where I should like to live; naming them in the inverse order of preference,--the
Isle of Wight, Sorrento, and Heaven. The first two have something in common, the almost mystic
union of sky and sea and shore, a soft atmospheric suffusion that works an enchantment, and
puts one into a dreamy mood. And yet there are decided contrasts. The superabundant, soaking
sunshine of Sorrento is of very different quality from that of the Isle of Wight. On the island
there is a sense of home, which one misses on this promontory, the fascination of which, no
less strong, is that of a southern beauty, whose charms conquer rather than win. I remember
with what feeling I one day unexpectedly read on a white slab, in the little inclosure of Bonchurch,
where the sea whispered as gently as the rustle of the ivy-leaves, the name of John Sterling.
Could there be any fitter resting-place for that most, weary, and gentle spirit? There I seemed
to know he had the rest that he could not have anywhere on these brilliant historic shores.
Yet so impressible was his sensitive nature, that I doubt not, if he had given himself up to
the enchantment of these coasts in his lifetime, it would have led him by a spell he could
not break.

I am sometimes in doubt what is the spell of Sorrento, and half believe that it is independent
of anything visible. There is said to be a fatal enchantment about Capri. The influences of
Sorrento are not so dangerous, but are almost as marked. I do not wonder that the Greeks peopled
every cove and sea-cave with divinities, and built temples on every headland and rocky islet
here; that the Romans built upon the Grecian ruins; that the ecclesiastics in succeeding centuries
gained possession of all the heights, and built convents and monasteries, and set out vineyards,
and orchards of olives and oranges, and took root as the creeping plants do, spreading themselves
abroad in the sunshine and charming air. The Italian of to-day does not willingly emigrate,
is tempted by no seduction of better fortune in any foreign clime. And so in all ages the swarming
populations have clung to these shores, filling all the coasts and every nook in these almost
inaccessible hills with life. Perhaps the delicious climate, which avoids all extremes, sufficiently
accounts for this; and yet I have sometimes thought there is a more subtle reason why travelers
from far lands are spellbound here, often against will and judgment, week after week, month
after month.

However this may be, it is certain that strangers who come here, and remain long enough to
get entangled in the meshes which some influence, I know not what, throws around them, are
in danger of never departing. I know there are scores of travelers, who whisk down from Naples,
guidebook in hand, goaded by the fell purpose of seeing every place in Europe, ascend some
height, buy a load of the beautiful inlaid woodwork, perhaps row over to Capri and stay five
minutes in the azure grotto, and then whisk away again, untouched by the glamour of the place.
Enough that they write "delightful spot" in their diaries, and hurry off to new scenes, and
more noisy life. But the visitor who yields himself to the place will soon find his power of
will departing. Some satirical people say, that, as one grows strong in body here, he becomes
weak in mind. The theory I do not accept: one simply folds his sails, unships his rudder, and
waits the will of Providence, or the arrival of some compelling fate. The longer one remains,
the more difficult it is to go. We have a fashion--indeed, I may call it a habit--of deciding
to go, and of never going. It is a subject of infinite jest among the habitues of the villa,
who meet at table, and who are always bidding each other good-by. We often go so far as to
write to Naples at night, and bespeak rooms in the hotels; but we always countermand the order
before we sit down to breakfast. The good-natured mistress of affairs, the head of the bureau
of domestic relations, is at her wits' end, with guests who always promise to go and never
depart. There are here a gentleman and his wife, English people of decision enough, I presume,
in Cornwall, who packed their luggage before Christmas to depart, but who have not gone towards
the end of February,--who daily talk of going, and little by little unpack their wardrobe,
as their determination oozes out. It is easy enough to decide at night to go next day; but
in the morning, when the soft sunshine comes in at the window, and when we descend and walk
in the garden, all our good intentions vanish. It is not simply that we do not go away, but
we have lost the motive for those long excursions which we made at first, and which more adventurous
travelers indulge in. There are those here who have intended for weeks to spend a day on Capri.
Perfect day for the expedition succeeds perfect day, boatload after boatload sails away from
the little marina at the base of the cliff, which we follow with eves of desire, but--to-morrow
will do as well. We are powerless to break the enchantment.

I confess to the fancy that there is some subtle influence working this sea-change in us, which
the guidebooks, in their enumeration of the delights of the region, do not touch, and which
maybe reaches back beyond the Christian era. I have always supposed that the story of Ulysses
and the Sirens was only a fiction of the poets, intended to illustrate the allurements of a
soul given over to pleasure, and deaf to the call of duty and the excitement of a grapple with
the world. But a lady here, herself one of the entranced, tells me that whoever climbs the
hills behind Sorrento, and looks upon the Isle of the Sirens, is struck with an inability to
form a desire to depart from these coasts. I have gazed at those islands more than once, as
they lie there in the Bay of Salerno; and it has always happened that they have been in a half-misty
and not uncolored sunlight, but not so draped that I could not see they were only three irregular
rocks, not far from shore, one of them with some ruins on it. There are neither sirens there
now, nor any other creatures; but I should be sorry to think I should never see them again.
When I look down on them, I can also turn and behold on the other side, across the Bay of Naples,
the Posilipo, where one of the enchanters who threw magic over them is said to lie in his high
tomb at the opening of the grotto. Whether he does sleep in his urn in that exact spot is of
no moment. Modern life has disillusioned this region to a great extent; but the romance that
the old poets have woven about these bays and rocky promontories comes very easily back upon
one who submits himself long to the eternal influences of sky and sea which made them sing.
It is all one,--to be a Roman poet in his villa, a lazy friar of the Middle Ages toasting in
the sun, or a modern idler, who has drifted here out of the active currents of life, and cannot
make up his mind to depart.

MONKISH PERCHES

On heights at either end of the Piano di Sorrento, and commanding it, stood two religious houses:
the Convent of the Carnaldoli to the northeast, on the crest of the hill above Meta; the Carthusian
Monastery of the Deserto, to the southwest, three miles above Sorrento. The longer I stay here,
the more respect I have for the taste of the monks of the Middle Ages. They invariably secured
the best places for themselves. They seized all the strategic points; they appropriated all
the commanding heights; they knew where the sun would best strike the grapevines; they perched
themselves wherever there was a royal view. When I see how unerringly they did select and occupy
the eligible places, I think they were moved by a sort of inspiration. In those days, when
the Church took the first choice in everything, the temptation to a Christian life must have
been strong.

The monastery at the Deserto was suppressed by the French of the first republic, and has long
been in a ruinous condition. Its buildings crown the apex of the highest elevation in this
part of the promontory: from its roof the fathers paternally looked down upon the churches
and chapels and nunneries which thickly studded all this region; so that I fancy the air must
have been full of the sound of bells, and of incense perpetually ascending. They looked also
upon St. Agata under the hill, with a church bigger than itself; upon more distinct Massa,
with its chapels and cathedral and overlooking feudal tower; upon Torca, the Greek Theorica,
with its Temple of Apollo, the scene yet of an annual religious festival, to which the peasants
of Sorrento go as their ancestors did to the shrine of the heathen god; upon olive and orange
orchards, and winding paths and wayside shrines innumerable. A sweet and peaceful scene in
the foreground, it must have been, and a whole horizon of enchantment beyond the sunny peninsula
over which it lorded: the Mediterranean, with poetic Capri, and Ischia, and all the classic
shore from Cape Misenum, Baiae, and Naples, round to Vesuvius; all the sparkling Bay of Naples;
and on the other side the Bay of Salerno, covered with the fleets of the commerce of Amalfi,
then a republican city of fifty thousand people; and Grecian Paestum on the marshy shore, even
then a ruin, its deserted porches and columns monuments of an architecture never equaled elsewhere
in Italy. Upon this charming perch, the old Carthusian monks took the summer breezes and the
winter sun, pruned their olives, and trimmed their grapevines, and said prayers for the poor
sinners toiling in the valleys below.

The monastery is a desolate old shed now. We left our donkeys to eat thistles in front, while
we climbed up some dilapidated steps, and entered the crumbling hall. The present occupants
are half a dozen monks, and fine fellows too, who have an orphan school of some twenty lads.
We were invited to witness their noonday prayers. The flat-roofed rear buildings extend round
an oblong, quadrangular space, which is a rich garden, watered from capacious tanks, and coaxed
into easy fertility by the impregnating sun. Upon these roofs the brothers were wont to walk,
and here they sat at peaceful evening. Here, too, we strolled; and here I could not resist
the temptation to lie an unheeded hour or two, soaking in the benignant February sun, above
every human concern and care, looking upon a land and sea steeped in romance. The sky was blue
above; but in the south horizon, in the direction of Tunis, were the prismatic colors. Why
not be a monk, and lie in the sun?

One of the handsome brothers invited us into the refectory, a place as bare and cheerless as
the feeding-room of a reform school, and set before us bread and cheese, and red wine, made
by the monks. I notice that the monks do not water their wine so much as the osteria keepers
do; which speaks equally well for their religion and their taste. The floor of the room was
brick, the table plain boards, and the seats were benches; not much luxury. The monk who served
us was an accomplished man, traveled, and master of several languages. He spoke English a little.
He had been several years in America, and was much interested when we told him our nationality.

"Does the signor live near Mexico?"

"Not in dangerous proximity," we replied; but we did not forfeit his good opinion by saying
that we visited it but seldom.

Well, he had seen all quarters of the globe: he had been for years a traveler, but he had come
back here with a stronger love for it than ever; it was to him the most delightful spot on
earth, he said. And we could not tell him where its equal is. If I had nothing else to do,
I think I should cast in my lot with him,--at least for a week.

But the monks never got into a cozier nook than the Convent of the Camaldoli. That also is
suppressed: its gardens, avenues, colonnaded walks, terraces, buildings, half in ruins. It
is the level surface of a hill, sheltered on the east by higher peaks, and on the north by
the more distant range of Great St. Angelo, across the valley, and is one of the most extraordinarily
fertile plots of ground I ever saw. The rich ground responds generously to the sun. I should
like to have seen the abbot who grew on this fat spot. The workmen were busy in the garden,
spading and pruning.

A group of wild, half-naked children came about us begging, as we sat upon the walls of the
terrace,--the terrace which overhangs the busy plain below, and which commands the entire,
varied, nooky promontory, and the two bays. And these children, insensible to beauty, want
centesimi!

In the rear of the church are some splendid specimens of the umbrella-like Italian pine. Here
we found, also, a pretty little ruin,--it might be Greek and--it might be Druid for anything
that appeared, ivy-clad, and suggesting a religion older than that of the convent. To the east
we look into a fertile, terraced ravine; and beyond to a precipitous brown mountain, which
shows a sharp outline against the sky; halfway up are nests of towns, white houses, churches,
and above, creeping along the slope, the thread of an ancient road, with stone arches at intervals,
as old as Caesar.

We descend, skirting for some distance the monastery walls, over which patches of ivy hang
like green shawls. There are flowers in profusion, scented violets, daisies, dandelions, and
crocuses, large and of the richest variety, with orange pistils, and stamens purple and violet,
the back of every alternate leaf exquisitely penciled.

We descend into a continuous settlement, past shrines, past brown, sturdy men and handsome
girls working in the vineyards; we descend--but words express nothing--into a wonderful ravine,
a sort of refined Swiss scene,--high, bare steps of rock butting over a chasm, ruins, old walls,
vines, flowers. The very spirit of peace is here, and it is not disturbed by the sweet sound
of bells echoed in the passes. On narrow ledges of precipices, aloft in the air where it would
seem that a bird could scarcely light, we distinguish the forms of men and women; and their
voices come down to us. They are peasants cutting grass, every spire of which is too precious
to waste.

We descend, and pass by a house on a knoll, and a terrace of olives extending along the road
in front. Half a dozen children come to the road to look at us as we approach, and then scamper
back to the house in fear, tumbling over each other and shouting, the eldest girl making good
her escape with the baby. My companion swings his hat, and cries, "Hullo, baby!" And when we
have passed the gate, and are under the wall, the whole ragged, brown-skinned troop scurry
out upon the terrace, and run along, calling after us, in perfect English, as long as we keep
in sight, "Hullo, baby!" "Hullo, baby!" The next traveler who goes that way will no doubt be
hailed by the quick-witted natives with this salutation; and, if he is of a philological turn,
he will probably benefit his mind by running the phrase back to its ultimate Greek roots.

A DRY TIME

For three years, once upon a time, it did not rain in Sorrento. Not a drop out of the clouds
for three years, an Italian lady here, born in Ireland, assures me. If there was an occasional
shower on the Piano during all that drought, I have the confidence in her to think that she
would not spoil the story by noticing it.

The conformation of the hills encircling the plain would be likely to lead any shower astray,
and discharge it into the sea, with whatever good intentions it may have started down the promontory
for Sorrento. I can see how these sharp hills would tear the clouds asunder, and let out all
their water, while the people in the plain below watched them with longing eyes. But it can
rain in Sorrento. Occasionally the northeast wind comes down with whirling, howling fury, as
if it would scoop villages and orchards out of the little nook; and the rain, riding on the
whirlwind, pours in drenching floods. At such times I hear the beat of the waves at the foot
of the rock, and feel like a prisoner on an island. Eden would not be Eden in a rainstorm.

The drought occurred just after the expulsion of the Bourbons from Naples, and many think on
account of it. There is this to be said in favor of the Bourbons: that a dry time never had
occurred while they reigned,--a statement in which all good Catholics in Sorrento will concur.
As the drought went on, almost all the wells in the place dried up, except that of the Tramontano
and the one in the suppressed convent of the Sacred Heart,--I think that is its name.

It is a rambling pile of old buildings, in the center of the town, with a courtyard in the
middle, and in it a deep well, boring down I know not how far into the rock, and always full
of cold sweet water. The nuns have all gone now; and I look in vain up at the narrow slits
in the masonry, which served them for windows, for the glance of a worldly or a pious eye.
The poor people of Sorrento, when the public wells and fountains had gone dry, used to come
and draw at the Tramontano; but they were not allowed to go to the well of the convent, the
gates were closed. Why the government shut them I cannot see: perhaps it knew nothing of it,
and some stupid official took the pompous responsibility. The people grumbled, and cursed the
government; and, in their simplicity, probably never took any steps to revoke the prohibitory
law. No doubt, as the government had caused the drought, it was all of a piece, the good rustics
thought.

For the government did indirectly occasion the dry spell. I have the information from the Italian
lady of whom I have spoken. Among the first steps of the new government of Italy was the suppression
of the useless convents and nunneries. This one at Sorrento early came under the ban. It always
seemed to me almost a pity to rout out this asylum of praying and charitable women, whose occupation
was the encouragement of beggary and idleness in others, but whose prayers were constant, and
whose charities to the sick of the little city were many. If they never were of much good to
the community, it was a pleasure to have such a sweet little hive in the center of it; and
I doubt not that the simple people felt a genuine satisfaction, as they walked around the high
walls, in believing that pure prayers within were put up for them night and day; and especially
when they waked at night, and heard the bell of the convent, and knew that at that moment some
faithful soul kept her vigils, and chanted prayers for them and all the world besides; and
they slept the sounder for it thereafter. I confess that, if one is helped by vicarious prayer,
I would rather trust a convent of devoted women (though many of them are ignorant, and some
of them are worldly, and none are fair to see) to pray for me, than some of the houses of coarse
monks which I have seen.

But the order came down from Naples to pack off all the nuns of the Sacred Heart on a day named,
to close up the gates of the nunnery, and hang a flaming sword outside. The nuns were to be
pulled up by the roots, so to say, on the day specified, and without postponement, and to be
transferred to a house prepared for them at Massa, a few miles down the promontory, and several
hundred feet nearer heaven. Sorrento was really in mourning: it went about in grief. It seemed
as if something sacrilegious were about to be done. It was the intention of the whole town
to show its sense of it in some way.

The day of removal came, and it rained! It poured: the water came down in sheets, in torrents,
in deluges; it came down with the wildest tempest of many a year. I think, from accurate reports
of those who witnessed it, that the beginning of the great Deluge was only a moisture compared
to this. To turn the poor women out of doors such a day as this was unchristian, barbarous,
impossible. Everybody who had a shelter was shivering indoors. But the officials were inexorable.
In the order for removal, nothing was said about postponement on account of weather; and go
the nuns must.

And go they did; the whole town shuddering at the impiety of it, but kept from any demonstration
by the tempest. Carriages went round to the convent; and the women were loaded into them, packed
into them, carried and put in, if they were too infirm to go themselves. They were driven away,
cross and wet and bedraggled. They found their dwelling on the hill not half prepared for them,
leaking and cold and cheerless. They experienced very rough treatment, if I can credit my informant,
who says she hates the government, and would not even look out of her lattice that day to see
the carriages drive past.

And when the Lady Superior was driven away from the gate, she said to the officials, and the
few faithful attendants, prophesying in the midst of the rain that poured about her, "The day
will come shortly, when you will want rain, and shall not have it; and you will pray for my
return."

And it did not rain, from that day for three years.

And the simple people thought of the good Superior, whose departure had been in such a deluge,
and who had taken away with her all the moisture of the land; and they did pray for her return,
and believed that the gates of heaven would be again opened if only the nunnery were repeopled.
But the government could not see the connection between convents and the theory of storms,
and the remnant of pious women was permitted to remain in their lodgings at Massa. Perhaps
the government thought they could, if they bore no malice, pray as effectually for rain there
as anywhere.

I do not know, said my informant, that the curse of the Lady Superior had anything to do with
the drought, but many think it had; and those are the facts.

CHILDREN OF THE SUN

The common people of this region are nothing but children; and ragged, dirty, and poor as they
are, apparently as happy, to speak idiomatically, as the day is long. It takes very little
to please them; and their easily-excited mirth is contagious. It is very rare that one gets
a surly return to a salutation; and, if one shows the least good-nature, his greeting is met
with the most jolly return. The boatman hauling in his net sings; the brown girl, whom we meet
descending a steep path in the hills, with an enormous bag or basket of oranges on her head,
or a building-stone under which she stands as erect as a pillar, sings; and, if she asks for
something, there is a merry twinkle in her eye, that says she hardly expects money, but only
puts in a "beg" at a venture because it is the fashion; the workmen clipping the olive-trees
sing; the urchins, who dance about the foreigner in the street, vocalize their petitions for
un po' di moneta in a tuneful manner, and beg more in a spirit of deviltry than with any expectation
of gain. When I see how hard the peasants labor, what scraps and vegetable odds and ends they
eat, and in what wretched, dark, and smoke-dried apartments they live, I wonder they are happy;
but I suppose it is the all-nourishing sun and the equable climate that do the business for
them. They have few artificial wants, and no uneasy expectation--bred by the reading of books
and newspapers--that anything is going to happen in the world, or that any change is possible.
Their fruit-trees yield abundantly year after year; their little patches of rich earth, on
the built-up terraces and in the crevices of the rocks, produce fourfold. The sun does it all.

Every walk that we take here with open mind and cheerful heart is sure to be an adventure.
Only yesterday, we were coming down a branch of the great gorge which splits the plain in two.
On one side the path is a high wall, with garden trees overhanging. On the other, a stone parapet;
and below, in the bed of the ravine, an orange orchard. Beyond rises a precipice; and, at its
foot, men and boys were quarrying stone, which workmen raised a couple of hundred feet to the
platform above with a windlass. As we came along, a handsome girl on the height had just taken
on her head a large block of stone, which I should not care to lift, to carry to a pile in
the rear; and she stopped to look at us. We stopped, and looked at her. This attracted the
attention of the men and boys in the quarry below, who stopped work, and set up a cry for a
little money. We laughed, and responded in English. The windlass ceased to turn. The workmen
on the height joined in the conversation. A grizzly beggar hobbled up, and held out his greasy
cap. We nonplussed him by extending our hats, and beseeching him for just a little something.
Some passers on the road paused, and looked on, amused at the transaction. A boy appeared on
the high wall, and began to beg. I threatened to shoot him with my walkingstick, whereat he
ran nimbly along the wall in terror The workmen shouted; and this started up a couple of yellow
dogs, which came to the edge of the wall and barked violently. The girl, alone calm in the
confusion, stood stock still under her enormous load looking at us. We swung out hats, and
hurrahed. The crowd replied from above, below, and around us, shouting, laughing, singing,
until the whole little valley was vocal with a gale of merriment, and all about nothing. The
beggar whined; the spectators around us laughed; and the whole population was aroused into
a jolly mood. Fancy such a merry hullaballoo in America. For ten minutes, while the funny row
was going on, the girl never moved, having forgotten to go a few steps and deposit her load;
and when we disappeared round a bend of the path, she was still watching us, smiling and statuesque.

As we descend, we come upon a group of little children seated about a doorstep, black-eyed,
chubby little urchins, who are cutting oranges into little bits, and playing "party," as children
do on the other side of the Atlantic. The instant we stop to speak to them, the skinny hand
of an old woman is stretched out of a window just above our heads, the wrinkled palm itching
for money. The mother comes forward out of the house, evidently pleased with our notice of
the children, and shows us the baby in her arms. At once we are on good terms with the whole
family. The woman sees that there is nothing impertinent in our cursory inquiry into her domestic
concerns, but, I fancy, knows that we are genial travelers, with human sympathies. So the people
universally are not quick to suspect any imposition, and meet frankness with frankness, and
good-nature with good-nature, in a simple-hearted, primeval manner. If they stare at us from
doorway and balcony, or come and stand near us when we sit reading or writing by the shore,
it is only a childlike curiosity, and they are quite unconscious of any breach of good manners.
In fact, I think travelers have not much to say in the matter of staring. I only pray that
we Americans abroad may remember that we are in the presence of older races, and conduct ourselves
with becoming modesty, remembering always that we were not born in Britain.

Very likely I am in error; but it has seemed to me that even the funerals here are not so gloomy
as in other places. I have looked in at the churches when they are in progress, now and then,
and been struck with the general good feeling of the occasion. The real mourners I could not
always distinguish; but the seats would be filled with a motley gathering of the idle and the
ragged, who seemed to enjoy the show and the ceremony. On one occasion, it was the obsequies
of an officer in the army. Guarding the gilded casket, which stood upon a raised platform before
the altar, were four soldiers in uniform. Mass was being said and sung; and a priest was playing
the organ. The church was light and cheerful, and pervaded by a pleasant bustle. Ragged boys
and beggars, and dirty children and dogs, went and came wherever they chose--about the unoccupied
spaces of the church. The hired mourners, who are numerous in proportion to the rank of the
deceased, were clad in white cotton,--a sort of nightgown put on over the ordinary clothes,
with a hood of the same drawn tightly over the face, in which slits were cut for the eyes and
mouth. Some of them were seated on benches near the front; others were wandering about among
the pillars, disappearing in the sacristy, and reappearing with an aimless aspect, altogether
conducting themselves as if it were a holiday, and if there was anything they did enjoy, it
was mourning at other people's expense. They laughed and talked with each other in excellent
spirits; and one varlet near the coffin, who had slipped off his mask, winked at me repeatedly,
as if to inform me that it was not his funeral. A masquerade might have been more gloomy and
depressing.

SAINT ANTONINO

The most serviceable saint whom I know is St. Antonino. He is the patron saint of the good
town of Sorrento; he is the good genius of all sailors and fishermen; and he has a humbler
office,--that of protector of the pigs. On his day the pigs are brought into the public square
to be blessed; and this is one reason why the pork of Sorrento is reputed so sweet and wholesome.
The saint is the friend, and, so to say, companion of the common people. They seem to be all
fond of him, and there is little of fear in their confiding relation. His humble origin and
plebeian appearance have something to do with his popularity, no doubt. There is nothing awe-inspiring
in the brown stone figure, battered and cracked, that stands at one corner of the bridge, over
the chasm at the entrance of the city. He holds a crosier in one hand, and raises the other,
with fingers uplifted, in act of benediction. If his face is an indication of his character,
he had in him a mixture of robust good-nature with a touch of vulgarity, and could rough it
in a jolly manner with fishermen and peasants. He may have appeared to better advantage when
he stood on top of the massive old city gate, which the present government, with the impulse
of a vandal, took down a few years ago. The demolition had to be accomplished in the night,
under a guard of soldiers, so indignant were the populace. At that time the homely saint was
deposed; and he wears now, I think, a snubbed and cast-aside aspect. Perhaps he is dearer to
the people than ever; and I confess that I like him much better than many grander saints, in
stone, I have seen in more conspicuous places. If ever I am in rough water and foul weather,
I hope he will not take amiss anything I have here written about him.

Sunday, and it happened to be St. Valentine's also, was the great fete-day of St. Antonino.
Early in the morning there was a great clanging of bells; and the ceremony of the blessing
of the pigs took place,--I heard, but I was not abroad early enough to see it,--a laziness
for which I fancy I need not apologize, as the Catholic is known to be an earlier religion
than the Protestant. When I did go out, the streets were thronged with people, the countryfolk
having come in for miles around. The church of the patron saint was the great center of attraction.
The blank walls of the little square in front, and of the narrow streets near, were hung with
cheap and highly-colored lithographs of sacred subjects, for sale; tables and booths were set
up in every available space for the traffic in pre-Raphaelite gingerbread, molasses candy,
strings of dried nuts, pinecone and pumpkin seeds, scarfs, boots and shoes, and all sorts of
trumpery. One dealer had preempted a large space on the pavement, where he had spread out an
assortment of bits of old iron, nails, pieces of steel traps, and various fragments which might
be useful to the peasants. The press was so great, that it was difficult to get through it;
but the crowd was a picturesque one, and in the highest good humor. The occasion was a sort
of Fourth of July, but without its worry and powder and flowing bars.

The spectacle of the day was the procession bearing the silver image of the saint through the
streets. I think there could never be anything finer or more impressive; at least, I like these
little fussy provincial displays,--these tag-rags and ends of grandeur, in which all the populace
devoutly believe, and at which they are lost in wonder,--better than those imposing ceremonies
at the capital, in which nobody believes. There was first a band of musicians, walking in more
or less disorder, but blowing away with great zeal, so that they could be heard amid the clangor
of bells the peals of which reverberate so deafeningly between the high houses of these narrow
streets. Then follow boys in white, and citizens in black and white robes, carrying huge silken
banners, triangular like sea-pennants, and splendid silver crucifixes which flash in the sun.
Then come ecclesiastics, walking with stately step, and chanting in loud and pleasant unison.
These are followed by nobles, among whom I recognize, with a certain satisfaction, two descendants
of Tasso, whose glowing and bigoted soul may rejoice in the devotion of his posterity, who
help to bear today the gilded platform upon which is the solid silver image of the saint. The
good old bishop walks humbly in the rear, in full canonical rig, with crosier and miter, his
rich robes upborne by priestly attendants, his splendid footman at a respectful distance, and
his roomy carriage not far behind.

The procession is well spread out and long; all its members carry lighted tapers, a good many
of which are not lighted, having gone out in the wind. As I squeeze into a shallow doorway
to let the cortege pass, I am sorry to say that several of the young fellows in white gowns
tip me the wink, and even smile in a knowing fashion, as if it were a mere lark, after all,
and that the saint must know it. But not so thinks the paternal bishop, who waves a blessing,
which I catch in the flash of the enormous emerald on his right hand. The procession ends,
where it started, in the patron's church; and there his image is set up under a gorgeous canopy
of crimson and gold, to hear high mass, and some of the choicest solos, choruses, and bravuras
from the operas.

In the public square I find a gaping and wondering crowd of rustics collected about one of
the mountebanks whose trade is not peculiar to any country. This one might be a clock-peddler
from Connecticut. He is mounted in a one-seat vettura, and his horse is quietly eating his
dinner out of a bag tied to his nose. There is nothing unusual in the fellow's dress; he wears
a shiny silk hat, and has one of those grave faces which would be merry if their owner were
not conscious of serious business on hand. On the driver's perch before him are arranged his
attractions,--a box of notions, a grinning skull, with full teeth and jaws that work on hinges,
some vials of red liquid, and a closed jar containing a most disagreeable anatomical preparation.
This latter he holds up and displays, turning it about occasionally in an admiring manner.
He is discoursing, all the time, in the most voluble Italian. He has an ointment, wonderfully
efficacious for rheumatism and every sort of bruise: he pulls up his sleeve, and anoints his
arm with it, binding it up with a strip of paper; for the simplest operation must be explained
to these grown children. He also pulls teeth, with an ease and expedition hitherto unknown,
and is in no want of patients among this open-mouthed crowd. One sufferer after another climbs
up into the wagon, and goes through the operation in the public gaze. A stolid, good-natured
hind mounts the seat. The dentist examines his mouth, and finds the offending tooth. He then
turns to the crowd and explains the case. He takes a little instrument that is neither forceps
nor turnkey, stands upon the seat, seizes the man's nose, and jerks his head round between
his knees, pulling his mouth open (there is nothing that opens the mouth quicker than a sharp
upward jerk of the nose) with a rude jollity that sets the spectators in a roar. Down he goes
into the cavern, and digs away for a quarter of a minute, the man the while as immovable as
a stone image, when he holds up the bloody tooth. The patient still persists in sitting with
his mouth stretched open to its widest limit, waiting for the operation to begin, and will
only close the orifice when he is well shaken and shown the tooth. The dentist gives him some
yellow liquid to hold in his mouth, which the man insists on swallowing, wets a handkerchief
and washes his face, roughly rubbing his nose the wrong way, and lets him go. Every step of
the process is eagerly watched by the delighted spectators.

He is succeeded by a woman, who is put through the same heroic treatment, and exhibits like
fortitude. And so they come; and the dentist after every operation waves the extracted trophy
high in air, and jubilates as if he had won another victory, pointing to the stone statue yonder,
and reminding them that this is the glorious day of St. Antonino. But this is not all that
this man of science does. He has the genuine elixir d'amour, love-philters and powders which
never fail in their effects. I see the bashful girls and the sheepish swains come slyly up
to the side of the wagon, and exchange their hard-earned francs for the hopeful preparation.
O my brown beauty, with those soft eyes and cheeks of smothered fire, you have no need of that
red philter! What a simple, childlike folk! The shrewd fellow in the wagon is one of a race
as old as Thebes and as new as Porkopolis; his brazen face is older than the invention of bronze,
but I think he never had to do with a more credulous crowd than this. The very cunning in the
face of the peasants is that of the fox; it is a sort of instinct, and not an intelligent suspicion.

This is Sunday in Sorrento, under the blue sky. These peasants, who are fooled by the mountebank
and attracted by the piles of adamantine gingerbread, do not forget to crowd the church of
the saint at vespers, and kneel there in humble faith, while the choir sings the Agnus Dei,
and the priests drone the service. Are they so different, then, from other people? They have
an idea on Capri that England is such another island, only not so pleasant; that all Englishmen
are rich and constantly travel to escape the dreariness at home; and that, if they are not
absolutely mad, they are all a little queer. It was a fancy prevalent in Hamlet's day. We had
the English service in the Villa Nardi in the evening. There are some Englishmen staying here,
of the class one finds in all the sunny spots of Europe, ennuye and growling, in search of
some elixir that shall bring back youth and enjoyment. They seem divided in mind between the
attractions of the equable climate of this region and the fear of the gout which lurks in the
unfermented wine. One cannot be too grateful to the sturdy islanders for carrying their prayers,
like their drumbeat, all round the globe; and I was much edified that night, as the reading
went on, by a row of rather battered men of the world, who stood in line on one side of the
room, and took their prayers with a certain British fortitude, as if they were conscious of
performing a constitutional duty, and helping by the act to uphold the majesty of English institutions.

PUNTA DELLA CAMPANELLA

There is always a mild excitement about mounting donkeys in the morning here for an excursion
among the hills. The warm sun pouring into the garden, the smell of oranges, the stimulating
air, the general openness and freshness, promise a day of enjoyment. There is always a doubt
as to who will go; generally a donkey wanting; somebody wishes to join the party at the last
moment; there is no end of running up and downstairs, calling from balconies and terraces;
some never ready, and some waiting below in the sun; the whole house in a tumult, drivers in
a worry, and the sleepy animals now and then joining in the clatter with a vocal performance
that is neither a trumpet-call nor a steam-whistle, but an indescribable noise, that begins
in agony and abruptly breaks down in despair. It is difficult to get the train in motion. The
lady who ordered Succarina has got a strange donkey, and Macaroni has on the wrong saddle.
Succarina is a favorite, the kindest, easiest, and surest-footed of beasts,--a diminutive animal,
not bigger than a Friesland sheep; old, in fact grizzly with years, and not unlike the aged,
wizened little women who are so common here: for beauty in this region dries up; and these
handsome Sorrento girls, if they live, and almost everybody does live, have the prospect, in
their old age, of becoming mummies, with parchment skins. I have heard of climates that preserve
female beauty; this embalms it, only the beauty escapes in the process. As I was saying, Succarina
is little, old, and grizzly; but her head is large, and one might be contented to be as wise
as she looks.

The party is at length mounted, and clatters away through the narrow streets. Donkey-riding
is very good for people who think they cannot walk. It looks very much like riding, to a spectator;
and it deceives the person undertaking it into an amount of exercise equal to walking. I have
a great admiration for the donkey character. There never was such patience under wrong treatment,
such return of devotion for injury. Their obstinacy, which is so much talked about, is only
an exercise of the right of private judgment, and an intelligent exercise of it, no doubt,
if we could take the donkey point of view, as so many of us are accused of doing in other things.
I am certain of one thing: in any large excursion party there will be more obstinate people
than obstinate donkeys; and yet the poor brutes get all the thwacks and thumps. We are bound
to-day for the Punta della Campanella, the extreme point of the promontory, and ten miles away.
The path lies up the steps from the new Massa carriage-road, now on the backbone of the ridge,
and now in the recesses of the broken country. What an animated picture is the donkeycade,
as it mounts the steeps, winding along the zigzags! Hear the little bridlebells jingling, the
drivers groaning their "a-e-ugh, a-e-ugh," the riders making a merry din of laughter, and firing
off a fusillade of ejaculations of delight and wonder.

The road is between high walls; round the sweep of curved terraces which rise above and below
us, bearing the glistening olive; through glens and gullies; over and under arches, vine-grown,--how
little we make use of the arch at home!--round sunny dells where orange orchards gleam; past
shrines, little chapels perched on rocks, rude villas commanding most extensive sweeps of sea
and shore. The almond trees are in full bloom, every twig a thickly-set spike of the pink and
white blossoms; daisies and dandelions are out; the purple crocuses sprinkle the ground, the
petals exquisitely varied on the reverse side, and the stamens of bright salmon color; the
large double anemones have come forth, certain that it is spring; on the higher crags by the
wayside the Mediterranean heather has shaken out its delicate flowers, which fill the air with
a mild fragrance; while blue violets, sweet of scent like the English, make our path a perfumed
one. And this is winter.

We have made a late start, owing to the fact that everybody is captain of the expedition, and
to the Sorrento infirmity that no one is able to make up his mind about anything. It is one
o'clock when we reach a high transverse ridge, and find the headlands of the peninsula rising
before us, grim hills of limestone, one of them with the ruins of a convent on top, and no
road apparent thither, and Capri ahead of us in the sea, the only bit of land that catches
any light; for as we have journeyed the sky has thickened, the clouds of the sirocco have come
up from the south; there has been first a mist, and then a fine rain; the ruins on the peak
of Santa Costanza are now hid in mist. We halt for consultation. Shall we go on and brave a
wetting, or ignominiously retreat? There are many opinions, but few decided ones. The drivers
declare that it will be a bad time. One gentleman, with an air of decision, suggests that it
is best to go on, or go back, if we do not stand here and wait. The deaf lady, from near Dublin,
being appealed to, says that, perhaps, if it is more prudent, we had better go back if it is
going to rain. It does rain. Waterproofs are put on, umbrellas spread, backs turned to the
wind; and we look like a group of explorers under adverse circumstances, "silent on a peak
in Darien," the donkeys especially downcast and dejected. Finally, as is usual in life, a compromise
prevails. We decide to continue for half an hour longer and see what the weather is. No sooner
have we set forward over the brow of a hill than it grows lighter on the sea horizon in the
southwest, the ruins on the peak become visible, Capri is in full sunlight. The clouds lift
more and more, and still hanging overhead, but with no more rain, are like curtains gradually
drawn up, opening to us a glorious vista of sunshine and promise, an illumined, sparkling,
illimitable sea, and a bright foreground of slopes and picturesque rocks. Before the half hour
is up, there is not one of the party who does not claim to have been the person who insisted
upon going forward.

We halt for a moment to look at Capri, that enormous, irregular rock, raising its huge back
out of the sea, its back broken in the middle, with the little village for a saddle. On the
farther summit, above Anacapri, a precipice of two thousand feet sheer down to the water on
the other side, hangs a light cloud. The east elevation, whence the playful Tiberius used to
amuse his green old age by casting his prisoners eight hundred feet down into the sea, has
the strong sunlight on it; and below, the row of tooth-like rocks, which are the extreme eastern
point, shine in a warm glow. We descend through a village, twisting about in its crooked streets.
The inhabitants, who do not see strangers every day, make free to stare at and comment on us,
and even laugh at something that seems very comical in our appearance; which shows how ridiculous
are the costumes of Paris and New York in some places. Stalwart girls, with only an apology
for clothes, with bare legs, brown faces, and beautiful eyes, stop in their spinning, holding
the distaff suspended, while they examine us at leisure. At our left, as we turn from the church
and its sunny piazza, where old women sit and gabble, down the ravine, is a snug village under
the mountain by the shore, with a great square medieval tower. On the right, upon rocky points,
are remains of round towers, and temples perhaps.

We sweep away to the left round the base of the hill, over a difficult and stony path. Soon
the last dilapidated villa is passed, the last terrace and olive-tree are left behind; and
we emerge upon a wild, rocky slope, barren of vegetation, except little tufts of grass and
a sort of lentil; a wide sweep of limestone strata set on edge, and crumbling in the beat of
centuries, rising to a considerable height on the left. Our path descends toward the sea, still
creeping round the end of the promontory. Scattered here and there over the rocks, like conies,
are peasants, tending a few lean cattle, and digging grasses from the crevices. The women and
children are wild in attire and manner, and set up a clamor of begging as we pass. A group
of old hags begin beating a poor child as we approach, to excite our compassion for the abused
little object, and draw out centimes.

Walking ahead of the procession, which gets slowly down the rugged path, I lose sight of my
companions, and have the solitude, the sun on the rocks, the glistening sea, all to myself.
Soon I espy a man below me sauntering down among the rocks. He sees me and moves away, a solitary
figure. I say solitary; and so it is in effect, although he is leading a little boy, and calling
to his dog, which runs back to bark at me. Is this the brigand of whom I have read, and is
he luring me to his haunt? Probably. I follow. He throws his cloak about his shoulders, exactly
as brigands do in the opera, and loiters on. At last there is the point in sight, a gray wall
with blind arches. The man disappears through a narrow archway, and I follow. Within is an
enormous square tower. I think it was built in Spanish days, as an outlook for Barbary pirates.
A bell hung in it, which was set clanging when the white sails of the robbers appeared to the
southward; and the alarm was repeated up the coast, the towers were manned, and the brown-cheeked
girls flew away to the hills, I doubt not, for the touch of the sirocco was not half so much
to be dreaded as the rough importunity of a Saracen lover. The bell is gone now, and no Moslem
rovers are in sight. The maidens we had just passed would be safe if there were. My brigand
disappears round the tower; and I follow down steps, by a white wall, and lo! a house,--a red
stucco, Egyptian-looking building,--on the very edge of the rocks. The man unlocks a door and
goes in. I consider this an invitation, and enter. On one side of the passage a sleeping-room,
on the other a kitchen,--not sumptuous quarters; and we come then upon a pretty circular terrace;
and there, in its glass case, is the lantern of the point. My brigand is a lighthouse-keeper,
and welcomes me in a quiet way, glad, evidently, to see the face of a civilized being. It is
very solitary, he says. I should think so. It is the end of everything. The Mediterranean waves
beat with a dull thud on the worn crags below. The rocks rise up to the sky behind. There is
nothing there but the sun, an occasional sail, and quiet, petrified Capri, three miles distant
across the strait. It is an excellent place for a misanthrope to spend a week, and get cured.
There must be a very dispiriting influence prevailing here; the keeper refused to take any
money, the solitary Italian we have seen so affected.

We returned late. The young moon, lying in the lap of the old one, was superintending the brilliant
sunset over Capri, as we passed the last point commanding it; and the light, fading away, left
us stumbling over the rough path among the hills, darkened by the high walls. We were not sorry
to emerge upon the crest above the Massa road. For there lay the sea, and the plain of Sorrento,
with its darkening groves and hundreds of twinkling lights. As we went down the last descent,
the bells of the town were all ringing, for it was the eve of the fete of St. Antonino.

CAPRI

"CAP, signor? Good day for Grott." Thus spoke a mariner, touching his Phrygian cap. The people
here abbreviate all names. With them Massa is Mas, Meta is Met, Capri becomes Cap, the Grotta
Azzurra is reduced familiarly to Grott, and they even curtail musical Sorrento into Serent.

Shall we go to Capri? Should we dare return to the great Republic, and own that we had not
been into the Blue Grotto? We like to climb the steeps here, especially towards Massa, and
look at Capri. I have read in some book that it used to be always visible from Sorrento. But
now the promontory has risen, the Capo di Sorrento has thrust out its rocky spur with its ancient
Roman masonry, and the island itself has moved so far round to the south that Sorrento, which
fronts north, has lost sight of it.

We never tire of watching it, thinking that it could not be spared from the landscape. It lies
only three miles from the curving end of the promontory, and is about twenty miles due south
of Naples. In this atmosphere distances dwindle. The nearest land, to the northwest, is the
larger island of Ischia, distant nearly as far as Naples; yet Capri has the effect of being
anchored off the bay to guard the entrance. It is really a rock, three miles and a half long,
rising straight out of the water, eight hundred feet high at one end, and eighteen hundred
feet at the other, with a depression between. If it had been chiseled by hand and set there,
it could not be more sharply defined. So precipitous are its sides of rock, that there are
only two fit boat-landings, the marina on the north side, and a smaller place opposite. One
of those light-haired and freckled Englishmen, whose pluck exceeds their discretion, rowed
round the island alone in rough water, last summer, against the advice of the boatman, and
unable to make a landing, and weary with the strife of the waves, was in considerable peril.

Sharp and clear as Capri is in outline, its contour is still most graceful and poetic. This
wonderful atmosphere softens even its ruggedness, and drapes it with hues of enchanting beauty.
Sometimes the haze plays fantastic tricks with it,--a cloud-cap hangs on Monte Solaro, or a
mist obscures the base, and the massive summits of rock seem to float in the air, baseless
fabrics of a vision that the rising wind will carry away perhaps. I know now what Homer means
by "wandering islands." Shall we take a boat and sail over there, and so destroy forever another
island of the imagination? The bane of travel is the destruction of illusions.

We like to talk about Capri, and to talk of going there. The Sorrento people have no end of
gossip about the wild island; and, simple and primitive as they are, Capri is still more out
of the world. I do not know what enchantment there is on the island; but--whoever sets foot
there, they say, goes insane or dies a drunkard. I fancy the reason of this is found in the
fact that the Capri girls are raving beauties. I am not sure but the monotony of being anchored
off there in the bay, the monotony of rocks and precipices that goats alone can climb, the
monotony of a temperature that scarcely ever, winter and summer, is below 55 or above 75 Fahrenheit
indoors, might drive one into lunacy. But I incline to think it is due to the handsome Capri girls.

There are beautiful girls in Sorrento, with a beauty more than skin deep, a glowing, hidden
fire, a ripeness like that of the grape and the peach which grows in the soft air and the sun.
And they wither, like grapes that hang upon the stem. I have never seen a handsome, scarcely
a decent-looking, old woman here. They are lank and dry, and their bones are covered with parchment.
One of these brown-cheeked girls, with large, longing eyes, gives the stranger a start, now
and then, when he meets her in a narrow way with a basket of oranges on her head. I hope he
has the grace to go right by. Let him meditate what this vision of beauty will be like in twenty
ears.

The Capri girls are famed as magnificent beauties, but they fade like their mainland sisters.
The Saracens used to descend on their island, and carry them off to their harems. The English,
a very adventurous people, who have no harems, have followed the Saracens. The young lords
and gentlemen have a great fondness for Capri. I hear gossip enough about elopements, and not
seldom marriages, with the island girls,--bright girls, with the Greek mother-wit, and surpassingly
handsome; but they do not bear transportation to civilized life (any more than some of the
native wines do): they accept no intellectual culture; and they lose their beauty as they grow
old. What then? The young English blade, who was intoxicated by beauty into an injudicious
match and might, as the proverb says, have gone insane if he could not have made it, takes
to drink now, and so fulfills the other alternative. Alas! the fatal gift of beauty.

But I do not think Capri is so dangerous as it is represented. For (of course we went to Capri)
neither at the marina, where a crowd of bare-legged, vociferous maidens with donkeys assailed
us, nor in the village above, did I see many girls for whom and one little isle a person would
forswear the world. But I can believe that they grow here. One of our donkey girls was a handsome,
dark-skinned, black-eyed girl; but her little sister, a mite of a being of six years, who could
scarcely step over the small stones in the road, and was forced to lead the donkey by her sister
in order to establish another lien on us for buona mano, was a dirty little angel in rags,
and her great soft black eyes will look somebody into the asylum or the drunkard's grave in
time, I have no doubt. There was a stout, manly, handsome little fellow of five years, who
established himself as the guide and friend of the tallest of our party. His hat was nearly
gone; he was sadly out of repair in the rear; his short legs made the act of walking absurd;
but he trudged up the hill with a certain dignity. And there was nothing mercenary about his
attachment: he and his friend got upon very cordial terms: they exchanged gifts of shells and
copper coin, but nothing was said about pay.

Nearly all the inhabitants, young and old, joined us in lively procession, up the winding road
of three quarters of a mile, to the town. At the deep gate, entering between thick walls, we
stopped to look at the sea. The crowd and clamor at our landing had been so great that we enjoyed
the sight of the quiet old woman sitting here in the sun, and the few beggars almost too lazy
to stretch out their hands. Within the gate is a large paved square, with the government offices
and the tobacco-shop on one side, and the church opposite; between them, up a flight of broad
stone steps, is the Hotel Tiberio. Our donkeys walk up them and into the hotel. The church
and hotel are six hundred years old; the hotel was a villa belonging to Joanna II. of Naples.
We climb to the roof of the quaint old building, and sit there to drink in the strange oriental
scene. The landlord says it is like Jaffa or Jerusalem. The landlady, an Irish woman from Devonshire,
says it is six francs a day. In what friendly intercourse the neighbors can sit on these flat
roofs! How sightly this is, and yet how sheltered! To the east is the height where Augustus,
and after him Tiberius, built palaces. To the west, up that vertical wall, by means of five
hundred steps cut in the face of the rock, we go to reach the tableland of Anacapri, the primitive
village of that name, hidden from view here; the medieval castle of Barbarossa, which hangs
over a frightful precipice; and the height of Monte Solaro. The island is everywhere strewn
with Roman ruins, and with faint traces of the Greeks.

Capri turns out not to be a barren rock. Broken and picturesque as it is, it is yet covered
with vegetation. There is not a foot, one might say a point, of soil that does not bear something;
and there is not a niche in the rock, where a scrap of dirt will stay, that is not made useful.
The whole island is terraced. The most wonderful thing about it, after all, is its masonry.
You come to think, after a time, that the island is not natural rock, but a mass of masonry.
If the labor that has been expended here, only to erect platforms for the soil to rest on,
had been given to our country, it would have built half a dozen Pacific railways, and cut a
canal through the Isthmus.

But the Blue Grotto? Oh, yes! Is it so blue? That depends upon the time of day, the sun, the
clouds, and something upon the person who enters it. It is frightfully blue to some. We bend
down in our rowboat, slide into the narrow opening which is three feet high, and passing into
the spacious cavern, remain there for half an hour. It is, to be sure, forty feet high, and
a hundred by a hundred and fifty in extent, with an arched roof, and clear water for a floor.
The water appears to be as deep as the roof is high, and is of a light, beautiful blue, in
contrast with the deep blue of the bay. At the entrance the water is illuminated, and there
is a pleasant, mild light within: one has there a novel subterranean sensation; but it did
not remind me of anything I have seen in the "Arabian Nights." I have seen pictures of it that
were much finer.

As we rowed close to the precipice in returning, I saw many similar openings, not so deep,
and perhaps only sham openings; and the water-line was fretted to honeycomb by the eating waves.
Beneath the water-line, and revealed here and there when the waves receded, was a line of bright
red coral.

THE STORY OF FIAMMETTA

At vespers on the fete of St. Antonino, and in his church, I saw the Signorina Fiammetta. I
stood leaning against a marble pillar near the altar-steps, during the service, when I saw
the young girl kneeling on the pavement in act of prayer. Her black lace veil had fallen a
little back from her head; and there was something in her modest attitude and graceful figure
that made her conspicuous among all her kneeling companions, with their gay kerchiefs and bright
gowns. When she rose and sat down, with folded hands and eyes downcast, there was something
so pensive in her subdued mien that I could not take my eyes from her. To say that she had
the rich olive complexion, with the gold struggling through, large, lustrous black eyes, and
harmonious features, is only to make a weak photograph, when I should paint a picture in colors
and infuse it with the sweet loveliness of a maiden on the way to sainthood. I was sure that
I had seen her before, looking down from the balcony of a villa just beyond the Roman wall,
for the face was not one that even the most unimpressible idler would forget. I was sure that,
young as she was, she had already a history; had lived her life, and now walked amid these
groves and old streets in a dream. The story which I heard is not long.

In the drawing-room of the Villa Nardi was shown, and offered for sale, an enormous counterpane,
crocheted in white cotton. Loop by loop, it must have been an immense labor to knit it; for
it was fashioned in pretty devices, and when spread out was rich and showy enough for the royal
bed of a princess. It had been crocheted by Fiammetta for her marriage, the only portion the
poor child could bring to that sacrament. Alas! the wedding was never to be; and the rich work,
into which her delicate fingers had knit so many maiden dreams and hopes and fears, was offered
for sale in the resort of strangers. It could not have been want only that induced her to put
this piece of work in the market, but the feeling, also, that the time never again could return
when she would have need of it. I had no desire to purchase such a melancholy coverlet, but
I could well enough fancy why she would wish to part with what must be rather a pall than a
decoration in her little chamber.

Fiammetta lived with her mother in a little villa, the roof of which is in sight from my sunny
terrace in the Villa Nardi, just to the left of the square old convent tower, rising there
out of the silver olive-boughs,--a tumble-down sort of villa, with a flat roof and odd angles
and parapets, in the midst of a thrifty but small grove of lemons and oranges. They were poor
enough, or would be in any country where physical wants are greater than here, and yet did
not belong to that lowest class, the young girls of which are little more than beasts of burden,
accustomed to act as porters, bearing about on their heads great loads of stone, wood, water,
and baskets of oranges in the shipping season. She could not have been forced to such labor,
or she never would have had the time to work that wonderful coverlet.

Giuseppe was an honest and rather handsome young fellow of Sorrento, industrious and good-natured,
who did not bother his head much about learning. He was, however, a skillful workman in the
celebrated inlaid and mosaic woodwork of the place, and, it is said, had even invented some
new figures for the inlaid pictures in colored woods. He had a little fancy for the sea as
well, and liked to pull an oar over to Capri on occasion, by which he could earn a few francs
easier than he could saw them out of the orangewood. For the stupid fellow, who could not read
a word in his prayer-book, had an idea of thrift in his head, and already, I suspect, was laying
up liras with an object. There are one or two dandies in Sorrento who attempt to dress as they
do in Naples. Giuseppe was not one of these; but there was not a gayer or handsomer gallant
than he on Sunday, or one more looked at by the Sorrento girls, when he had on his clean suit
and his fresh red Phrygian cap. At least the good Fiammetta thought so, when she met him at
church, though I feel sure she did not allow even his handsome figure to come between her and
the Virgin. At any rate, there can be no doubt of her sentiments after church, when she and
her mother used to walk with him along the winding Massa road above the sea, and stroll down
to the shore to sit on the greensward over the Temple of Hercules, or the Roman Baths, or the
remains of the villa of C. Fulvius Cunctatus Cocles, or whatever those ruins subterranean are,
there on the Capo di Sorrento. Of course, this is mere conjecture of mine. They may have gone
on the hills behind the town instead, or they may have stood leaning over the garden-wall of
her mother's little villa, looking at the passers-by in the deep lane, thinking about nothing
in the world, and talking about it all the sunny afternoon, until Ischia was purple with the
last light, and the olive terraces behind them began to lose their gray bloom. All I do know
is, that they were in love, blossoming out in it as the almond-trees do here in February; and
that all the town knew it, and saw a wedding in the future, just as plain as you can see Capri
from the heights above the town.

It was at this time that the wonderful counterpane began to grow, to the continual astonishment
of Giuseppe, to whom it seemed a marvel of skill and patience, and who saw what love and sweet
hope Fiammetta was knitting into it with her deft fingers. I declare, as I think of it, the
white cotton spread out on her knees, in such contrast to the rich olive of her complexion
and her black shiny hair, while she knits away so merrily, glancing up occasionally with those
liquid, laughing eyes to Giuseppe, who is watching her as if she were an angel right out of
the blue sky, I am tempted not to tell this story further, but to leave the happy two there
at the open gate of life, and to believe that they entered in.

This was about the time of the change of government, after this region had come to be a part
of the Kingdom of Italy. After the first excitement was over, and the simple people found they
were not all made rich, nor raised to a condition in which they could live without work, there
began to be some dissatisfaction. Why the convents need have been suppressed, and especially
the poor nuns packed off, they couldn't see; and then the taxes were heavier than ever before;
instead of being supported by the government, they had to support it; and, worst of all, the
able young fellows must still go for soldiers. Just as one was learning his trade, or perhaps
had acquired it, and was ready to earn his living and begin to make a home for his wife, he
must pass the three best years of his life in the army. The conscription was relentless.

The time came to Giuseppe, as it did to the others. I never heard but he was brave enough;
there was no storm on the Mediterranean that he dare not face in his little boat; and he would
not have objected to a campaign with the red shirts of Garibaldi. But to be torn away from
his occupations by which he was daily laying aside a little for himself and Fiammetta, and
to leave her for three years,--that seemed dreadful to him. Three years is a longtime; and
though he had no doubt of the pretty Fiammetta, yet women are women, said the shrewd fellow
to himself, and who knows what might happen, if a gallant came along who could read and write,
as Fiammetta could, and, besides, could play the guitar?

The result was, that Giuseppe did not appear at the mustering-office on the day set; and, when
the file of soldiers came for him, he was nowhere to be found. He had fled to the mountains.
I scarcely know what his plan was, but he probably trusted to some good luck to escape the
conscription altogether, if he could shun it now; and, at least, I know that he had many comrades
who did the same, so that at times the mountains were full of young fellows who were lurking
in them to escape the soldiers. And they fared very roughly usually, and sometimes nearly perished
from hunger; for though the sympathies of the peasants were undoubtedly with the quasi-outlaws
rather than with the carbineers, yet the latter were at every hamlet in the hills, and liable
to visit every hut, so that any relief extended to the fugitives was attended with great danger;
and, besides, the hunted men did not dare to venture from their retreats. Thus outlawed and
driven to desperation by hunger, these fugitives, whom nobody can defend for running away from
their duties as citizens, became brigands. A cynical German, who was taken by them some years
ago on the road to Castellamare, a few miles above here, and held for ransom, declared that
they were the most honest fellows he had seen in Italy; but I never could see that he intended
the remark as any compliment to them. It is certain that the inhabitants of all these towns
held very loose ideas on the subject of brigandage: the poor fellows, they used to say, only
robbed because they were hungry, and they must live somehow.

What Fiammetta thought, down in her heart, is not told: but I presume she shared the feelings
of those about her concerning the brigands, and, when she heard that Giuseppe had joined them,
was more anxious for the safety of his body than of his soul; though I warrant she did not
forget either, in her prayers to the Virgin and St. Antonino. And yet those must have been
days, weeks, months, of terrible anxiety to the poor child; and if she worked away at the counterpane,
netting in that elaborate border, as I have no doubt she did, it must have been with a sad
heart and doubtful fingers. I think that one of the psychological sensitives could distinguish
the parts of the bedspread that were knit in the sunny days from those knit in the long hours
of care and deepening anxiety.

It was rarely that she received any message from him and it was then only verbal and of the
briefest; he was in the mountains above Amalfi; one day he had come so far round as the top
of the Great St. Angelo, from which he could look down upon the piano of Sorrento, where the
little Fiammetta was; or he had been on the hills near Salerno, hunted and hungry; or his company
had descended upon some travelers going to Paestum, made a successful haul, and escaped into
the steep mountains beyond. He didn't intend to become a regular bandit, not at all. He hoped
that something might happen so that he could steal back into Sorrento, unmarked by the government;
or, at least, that he could escape away to some other country or island, where Fiammetta could
join him. Did she love him yet, as in the old happy days? As for him, she was now everything
to him; and he would willingly serve three or thirty years in the army, if the government could
forget he had been a brigand, and permit him to have a little home with Fiammetta at the end
of the probation. There was not much comfort in all this, but the simple fellow could not send
anything more cheerful; and I think it used to feed the little maiden's heart to hear from
him, even in this downcast mood, for his love for her was a dear certainty, and his absence
and wild life did not dim it.

My informant does not know how long this painful life went on, nor does it matter much. There
came a day when the government was shamed into new vigor against the brigands. Some English
people of consequence (the German of whom I have spoken was with them) had been captured, and
it had cost them a heavy ransom. The number of the carbineers was quadrupled in the infested
districts, soldiers penetrated the fastnesses of the hills, there were daily fights with the
banditti; and, to show that this was no sham, some of them were actually shot, and others were
taken and thrown into prison. Among those who were not afraid to stand and fight, and who would
not be captured, was our Giuseppe. One day the Italia newspaper of Naples had an account of
a fight with brigands; and in the list of those who fell was the name of Giuseppe---, of Sorrento,
shot through the head, as he ought to have been, and buried without funeral among the rocks.

This was all. But when the news was read in the little post office in Sorrento, it seemed a
great deal more than it does as I write it; for, if Giuseppe had an enemy in the village, it
was not among the people; and not one who heard the news did not think at once of the poor
girl to whom it would be more than a bullet through the heart. And so it was. The slender hope
of her life then went out. I am told that there was little change outwardly, and that she was
as lovely as before; but a great cloud of sadness came over her, in which she was always enveloped,
whether she sat at home, or walked abroad in the places where she and Giuseppe used to wander.
The simple people respected her grief, and always made a tender-hearted stillness when the
bereft little maiden went through the streets,--a stillness which she never noticed, for she
never noticed anything apparently. The bishop himself when he walked abroad could not be treated
with more respect.

This was all the story of the sweet Fiammetta that was confided to me. And afterwards, as I
recalled her pensive face that evening as she kneeled at vespers, I could not say whether,
after all, she was altogether to be pitied, in the holy isolation of her grief, which I am
sure sanctified her, and, in some sort, made her life complete. For I take it that life, even
in this sunny Sorrento, is not alone a matter of time.

ST. MARIA A CASTELLO

The Great St. Angelo and that region are supposed to be the haunts of brigands. From those
heights they spy out the land, and from thence have, more than once, descended upon the sea-road
between Castellamare and Sorrento, and caught up English and German travelers. This elevation
commands, also, the Paestum way. We have no faith in brigands in these days; for in all our
remote and lonely explorations of this promontory we have never met any but the most simple-hearted
and good-natured people, who were quite as much afraid of us as we were of them. But there
are not wanting stories, every day, to keep alive the imagination of tourists.

We are waiting in the garden this sunny, enticing morning-just the day for a tramp among the
purple hills--for our friend, the long Englishman, who promised, over night, to go with us.
This excellent, good-natured giant, whose head rubs the ceiling of any room in the house, has
a wife who is fond of him, and in great dread of the brigands. He comes down with a sheepish
air, at length, and informs us that his wife won't let him go.

"Of course I can go, if I like," he adds. "But the fact is, I have n't slept much all night:
she kept asking me if I was going!" On the whole, the giant don't care to go. There are things
more to be feared than brigands.

The expedition is, therefore, reduced to two unarmed persons. In the piazza we pick up a donkey
and his driver for use in case of accident; and, mounting the driver on the donkey,--an arrangement
that seems entirely satisfactory to him,--we set forward. If anything can bring back youth,
it is a day of certain sunshine and a bit of unexplored country ahead, with a whole day in
which to wander in it without a care or a responsibility. We walk briskly up the walled road
of the piano, striking at the overhanging golden fruit with our staves; greeting the orange-girls
who come down the side lanes; chaffing with the drivers, the beggars, the old women who sit
in the sun; looking into the open doors of houses and shops upon women weaving, boys and girls
slicing up heaps of oranges, upon the makers of macaroni, the sellers of sour wine, the merry
shoemakers, whose little dens are centers of gossip here, as in all the East: the whole life
of these people is open and social; to be on the street is to be at home.

We wind up the steep hill behind Meta, every foot of which is terraced for olive-trees, getting,
at length, views over the wayside wall of the plain and bay and rising into the purer air and
the scent of flowers and other signs of coming spring, to the little village of Arola, with
its church and bell, its beggars and idlers,--just a little street of houses jammed in between
the hills of Camaldoli and Pergola, both of which we know well.

Upon the cliff by Pergola is a stone house, in front of which I like to lie, looking straight
down a thousand or two feet upon the roofs of Meta, the map of the plain, and the always fascinating
bay. I went down the backbone of the limestone ridge towards the sea the other afternoon, before
sunset, and unexpectedly came upon a group of little stone cottages on a ledge, which are quite
hidden from below. The inhabitants were as much surprised to see a foreigner break through
their seclusion as I was to come upon them. However, they soon recovered presence of mind to
ask for a little money. Half a dozen old hags with the parchment also sat upon the rocks in
the sun, spinning from distaffs, exactly as their ancestors did in Greece two thousand years
ago, I doubt not. I do not know that it is true, as Tasso wrote, that this climate is so temperate
and serene that one almost becomes immortal in it. Since two thousand years all these coasts
have changed more or less, risen and sunk, and the temples and palaces of two civilizations
have tumbled into the sea. Yet I do not know but these tranquil old women have been sitting
here on the rocks all the while, high above change and worry and decay, gossiping and spinning,
like Fates. Their yarn must be uncanny.

But we wander. It is difficult to go to any particular place here; impossible to write of it
in a direct manner. Our mulepath continues most delightful, by slopes of green orchards nestled
in sheltered places, winding round gorges, deep and ragged with loose stones, and groups of
rocks standing on the edge of precipices, like medieval towers, and through village after village
tucked away in the hills. The abundance of population is a constant surprise. As we proceed,
the people are wilder and much more curious about us, having, it is evident, seen few strangers
lately. Women and children, half-dressed in dirty rags which do not hide the form, come out
from their low stone huts upon the windy terraces, and stand, arms akimbo, staring at us, and
not seldom hailing us in harsh voices. Their sole dress is often a single split and torn gown,
not reaching to the bare knees, evidently the original of those in the Naples ballet (it will,
no doubt, be different when those creatures exchange the ballet for the ballot); and, with
their tangled locks and dirty faces, they seem rather beasts than women. Are their husbands
brigands, and are they in wait for us in the chestnut-grove yonder?

The grove is charming; and the men we meet there gathering sticks are not so surly as the women.
They point the way; and when we emerge from the wood, St. Maria a Castello is before us on
a height, its white and red church shining in the sun. We climb up to it. In front is a broad,
flagged terrace; and on the edge are deep wells in the rock, from which we draw cool water.
Plentifully victualed, one could stand a siege here, and perhaps did in the gamey Middle Ages.
Monk or soldier need not wish a pleasanter place to lounge. Adjoining the church, but lower,
is a long, low building with three rooms, at once house and stable, the stable in the center,
though all of them have hay in the lofts. The rooms do not communicate. That is the whole of
the town of St. Maria a Castello.

In one of the apartments some rough-looking peasants are eating dinner, a frugal meal: a dish
of unclean polenta, a plate of grated cheese, a basket of wormy figs, and some sour red wine;
no bread, no meat. They looked at us askance, and with no sign of hospitality. We made friends,
however, with the ragged children, one of whom took great delight in exhibiting his litter
of puppies; and we at length so far worked into the good graces of the family that the mother
was prevailed upon to get us some milk and eggs. I followed the woman into one of the apartments
to superintend the cooking of the eggs. It was a mere den, with an earth floor. A fire of twigs
was kindled against the farther wall, and a little girl, half-naked, carrying a baby still
more economically clad, was stooping down to blow the smudge into a flame. The smoke, some
of it, went over our heads out at the door. We boiled the eggs. We desired salt; and the woman
brought us pepper in the berry. We insisted on salt, and at length got the rock variety, which
we pounded on the rocks. We ate our eggs and drank our milk on the terrace, with the entire
family interested spectators. The men were the hardest-looking ruffians we had met yet: they
were making a bit of road near by, but they seemed capable of turning their hands to easier
money-getting; and there couldn't be a more convenient place than this.

When our repast was over, and I had drunk a glass of wine with the proprietor, I offered to
pay him, tendering what I knew was a fair price in this region. With some indignation of gesture,
he refused it, intimating that it was too little. He seemed to be seeking an excuse for a quarrel
with us; so I pocketed the affront, money and all, and turned away. He appeared to be surprised,
and going indoors presently came out with a bottle of wine and glasses, and followed us down
upon the rocks, pressing us to drink. Most singular conduct; no doubt drugged wine; travelers
put into deep sleep; robbed; thrown over precipice; diplomatic correspondence, flattering,
but no compensation to them. Either this, or a case of hospitality. We declined to drink, and
the brigand went away.

We sat down upon the jutting ledge of a precipice, the like of which is not in the world: on
our left, the rocky, bare side of St. Angelo, against which the sunshine dashes in waves; below
us, sheer down two thousand feet, the city of Positano, a nest of brown houses, thickly clustered
on a conical spur, and lying along the shore, the home of three thousand people,--with a running
jump I think I could land in the midst of it,--a pygmy city, inhabited by mites, as we look
down upon it; a little beach of white sand, a sailboat lying on it, and some fishermen just
embarking; a long hotel on the beach; beyond, by the green shore, a country seat charmingly
situated amid trees and vines; higher up, the ravine-seamed hill, little stone huts, bits of
ruin, towers, arches. How still it is! All the stiller that I can, now and then, catch the
sound of an axe, and hear the shouts of some children in a garden below. How still the sea
is! How many ages has it been so? Does the purple mist always hang there upon the waters of
Salerno Bay, forever hiding from the gaze Paestum and its temples, and all that shore which
is so much more Grecian than Roman?

After all, it is a satisfaction to turn to the towering rock of St. Angelo; not a tree, not
a shrub, not a spire of grass, on its perpendicular side. We try to analyze the satisfaction
there is in such a bald, treeless, verdureless mass. We can grasp it intellectually, in its
sharp solidity, which is undisturbed by any ornament: it is, to the mind, like some complete
intellectual performance; the mind rests on it, like a demonstration in Euclid. And yet what
a color of beauty it takes on in the distance!

When we return, the bandits have all gone to their road-making: the suspicious landlord is
nowhere to be seen. We call the woman from the field, and give her money, which she seemed
not to expect, and for which she shows no gratitude. Life appears to be indifferent to these
people. But, if these be brigands, we prefer them to those of Naples, and even to the innkeepers
of England. As we saunter home in the pleasant afternoon, the vesper-bells are calling to each
other, making the sweetest echoes of peace everywhere in the hills, and all the piano is jubilant
with them, as we come down the steeps at sunset.

"You see there was no danger," said the giant to his wife that evening at the supper-table.

"You would have found there was danger, if you had gone," returned the wife of the giant significantly.

THE MYTH OF THE SIRENS

I like to walk upon the encircling ridge behind Sorrento, which commands both bays. From there
I can look down upon the Isles of the Sirens. The top is a broad, windy strip of pasture, which
falls off abruptly to the Bay of Salerno on the south: a regular embankment of earth runs along
the side of the precipitous steeps, towards Sorrento. It appears to be a line of defence for
musketry, such as our armies used to throw up: whether the French, who conducted siege operations
from this promontory on Capri, under Murat, had anything to do with it, does not appear.

Walking there yesterday, we met a woman shepherdess, cowherd, or siren--standing guard over
three steers while they fed; a scantily-clad, brown woman, who had a distaff in her hand, and
spun the flax as she watched the straying cattle, an example of double industry which the men
who tend herds never imitate. Very likely her ancestors so spun and tended cattle on the plains
of Thessaly. We gave the rigid woman good-morning, but she did not heed or reply; we made some
inquiries as to paths, but she ignored us; we bade her good-day, and she scowled at us: she
only spun. She was so out of tune with the people, and the gentle influences of this region,
that we could only regard her as an anomaly,--the representative of some perversity and evil
genius, which, no doubt, lurks here as it does elsewhere in the world. She could not have descended
from either of the groups of the Sirens; for she was not fascinating enough to be fatal.

I like to look upon these islets or rocks of the Sirens, barren and desolate, with a few ruins
of the Roman time and remains of the Middle-Age prisons of the doges of Amalfi; but I do not
care to dissipate any illusions by going to them. I remember how the Sirens sat on flowery
meads by the shore and sang, and are vulgarly supposed to have allured passing mariners to
a life of ignoble pleasure, and then let them perish, hungry with all unsatisfied longings.
The bones of these unfortunates, whitening on the rocks, of which Virgil speaks, I could not
see. Indeed, I think any one who lingers long in this region will doubt if they were ever there,
and will come to believe that the characters of the Sirens are popularly misconceived. Allowing
Ulysses to be only another name for the sun-god, who appears in myths as Indra, Apollo, William
Tell, the sure-hitter, the great archer, whose arrows are sunbeams, it is a degrading conception
of him that he was obliged to lash himself to the mast when he went into action with the Sirens,
like Farragut at Mobile, though for a very different reason. We should be forced to believe
that Ulysses was not free from the basest mortal longings, and that he had not strength of
mind to resist them, but must put himself in durance; as our moderns who cannot control their
desires go into inebriate asylums. Unfortunately we are all, as were the Greeks, ministered
unto by both these groups, but can fortunately, on the other hand, choose which group we will
listen to the singing of, though the strains are somewhat mingled; as, for instance, in the
modern opera, where the music quite as often wastes life away, as gives to it the energy of
pure desire. Yet, if I were to locate the Sirens geographically, I should place the beneficent
desires on this coast, and the dangerous ones on that of wicked Baiae; to which group the founder
of Naples no doubt belonged.

Nowhere, perhaps, can one come nearer to the beautiful myths of Greece, the springlike freshness
of the idyllic and heroic age, than on this Sorrentine promontory. It was no chance that made
these coasts the home of the kind old monarch Eolus, inventor of sails and storm-signals. On
the Telegrafo di Mare Cuccola is a rude signal-apparatus for communication with Capri,--to
ascertain if wind and wave are propitious for entrance to the Blue Grotto,--which probably
was not erected by Eolus, although he doubtless used this sightly spot as one of his stations.
That he dwelt here, in great content, with his six sons and six daughters, the Months, is nearly
certain; and I feel as sure that the Sirens, whose islands were close at hand, were elevators
and not destroyers of the primitive races living here.

It seems to me this must be so; because the pilgrim who surrenders himself to the influences
of these peaceful and sun-inundated coasts, under this sky which the bright Athena loved and
loves, loses, by and by, those longings and heart-sicknesses which waste away his life, and
comes under the dominion, more and more, of those constant desires after that which is peaceful
and enduring and has the saving quality of purity. I know, indeed, that it is not always so;
and that, as Boreas is a better nurse of rugged virtue than Zephyr, so the soft influences
of this clime only minister to the fatal desires of some: and such are likely to sail speedily
back to Naples.

The Sirens, indeed, are everywhere; and I do not know that we can go anywhere that we shall
escape the infinite longings, or satisfy them. Here, in the purple twilight of history, they
offered men the choice of good and evil. I have a fancy, that, in stepping out of the whirl
of modern life upon a quiet headland, so blessed of two powers, the air and the sea, we are
able to come to a truer perception of the drift of the eternal desires within us. But I cannot
say whether it is a subtle fascination, linked with these mythic and moral influences, or only
the physical loveliness of this promontory, that lures travelers hither, and detains them on
flowery meads.