This seems to me as absurd as if a man, because he does not believe that he will be able to
feed his body with good food to all eternity, should desire to satiate himself with poisonous
and deadly drugs; or as if, because he sees that the mind is not eternal or immortal, he should
therefore prefer to be mad and to live without reason--absurdities so great that they scarcely
deserve to be repeated.

Blessedness consists in love towards God, which arises from the third kind of knowledge, and
this love, therefore, must be related to the mind in so far as it acts. Blessedness, therefore,
is virtue itself. Again, the more the mind delights in this divine love or blessedness, the
more it understands, that is to say, the greater is the power it has over its emotions and
the less it suffers from emotions which are evil. Therefore, it is because the mind delights
in this divine love or blessedness that it possesses the power of restraining the lusts; and
because the power of man to restrain the emotions is in the intellect alone, no one, therefore,
delights in blessedness because he has restrained his emotions, but, on the contrary, the power
of restraining his lusts springs from blessedness itself.

I have finished everything I wished to explain concerning the power of the mind over the emotions
and concerning its liberty. From what has been said we see what is the strength of the wise
man, and how much he surpasses the ignorant who is driven forward by lust alone. For the ignorant
man is not only agitated by external causes in many ways, and never enjoys true peace of soul,
but lives also ignorant, as it were, both of God and of things, and as soon as he ceases to
suffer ceases also to be. On the other hand, the wise man, in so far as he is considered as
such, is scarcely ever moved in his mind, but, being conscious by a certain eternal necessity
of himself, of God, and of things, never ceases to be, and always enjoys true peace of soul.

If the way which, as I have shown, leads hither seem very difficult, it can nevertheless be
found. It must indeed be difficult since it is so seldom discovered; for if salvation lay ready
to hand and could be discovered without great labor, how could it be possible that it should
be neglected almost by everybody? But all noble things are as difficult as they are rare.

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Everything which we desire and do, of which we are the cause in so far as we possess an
idea of God, or in so far as we know God, I refer to Religion. The desire of doing well which
is born in us, because we live according to the guidance of reason, I call Piety.

APPENDIX

Spinoza's Ethics, demonstrated in geometrical order, consists of five parts; from these parts
the following selections have been taken:

Part I. Of God
        Definitions, Axioms, and the Appendix.
        Propositions: 11; 15-18; 26; 27; 29; 33.

Part II. Of the Nature and Origin of the Mind
        Preface, Definitions, and Axioms.
        Propositions: 1; 4-7; 11-13; 15-18; 24-26;
        28-32; 35; 36; 38-49.

Part III. Of the Origin and Nature of the Emotions
        Preface, Definitions, and Postulates; Definitions
        of the Emotions.
        Propositions: 1; 2; 4; 6; 9; 11; 14; 16;
        18; 25; 27-32; 40; 41; 43-46; 48-51; 56; 57.

Part IV. Of Human Bondage or Of the Strength of the
          Emotions
        Preface, Definitions, Axioms, and the Appendix.
        Propositions: 3-9; 11-27; 38; 39; 41-47;
        50-54; 56-58.

Part V. Of the Power of the Intellect or Of Human
          Liberty
        Preface and Axioms.
        Propositions: 1-28; 30-42.

THE END

