Suddenly the quiet beauty was shot through with the sound of loud voices and snatches of song
issuing from the cabin of Kayak Bill.  The trader listened with a smile that was half a sneer.
He himself never drank while at the post, deeming that it lessened his influence with the Indians.
But among the secrets of his own experience were memories of wild days and nights aboard visiting
schooners, at the end of which prone in the captain's bunk, he had lain for hours in alcoholic
oblivion.

The voices from the cabin ceased abruptly.  Then like the bellow of a fog horn on a lonely
northern sea came Kayak Bill's deep bass:

  "Take me north of old Point Barrow
  Where there ain't no East or West;
  Where man has a thirst that lingers
  And where moonshine tastes the best;
  Where the Arctic ice-pack hovers
  'Twixt Alaska and the Pole,
  And there ain't no bloomin' fashions
  To perplex a good man's soul."

There was a momentary pause followed by a hubbub of masculine voices apparently in a dispute
as to how the song should run.  High above the others rose a squeaky Scandinavian protest:

"By yingo, ven ay ban cook on Soofie Suderlant ve sing it so dis vay----"

"Close yore mouth, Silvertip."  As a whale would swallow a minnow so Kayak Bill's drawling
tones engulfed the thin, high accents of the one-time cook of the Sophie Sutherland.  "I ain't
no nature for Swedes a-devilin' o' me.  I been singin' that song for nigh on to ten yars, and
by the roarin' Jasus, I reckon I know how to sing it.  Come on boys--now all together!"

Joining the again raised bass of Kayak Bill, several voices took up the rollicking strain,
among them the high, easily recognizable tenor of Silvertip, and the voice of another, a baritone
of startling mellowness and purity, having in it a timbre of youth and recklessness:

  "Up into the Polar Seas,
  Where the Innuit maidens be,
  There's a fat, bright-eyed va-hee-ney
  A-waitin' there for me.
  She's sittin' in her igloo cold,
  Chewing on a muckluck sole,
  And the sun comes up at midnight
  From an ice-pack round the Pole."

At the sound of the baritone, the White Chief hitched his shoulders with a movement of satisfaction.
Add-'em-up Sam's successor, the bookkeeper, was bidding fair to follow in the sodden footsteps
of his predecessor.  Given a little more time and this baritone-singing cheechako[2] would
be where the White Chief need have no anxiety as to the accounts rendered the Company's new
president, whom Kilbuck had never seen.  A little more time, a little more hootch, and he would
also have settled the case of Na-lee-nah.

The thought of the Thlinget girl's soft brown eyes brought a momentary pang.  The white plague
permitted few native women to become old. Twice now Naleenah had lost her voice, and only last
night he had noticed behind her soft, her singularly beautiful little ears, the peculiar drawn
look that to his practiced eye spelled tuberculosis. She would last two years more, perhaps,
but in the meantime he must protect himself--he stirred uneasily.  The bookkeeper must be made
to take her off his hands.

His musing was broken into by another burst of song:

  "Oh-o-o-o!  I am a jolly rover
  And I lead a jolly life!
  I have my hootch and salmon
  And a little squaw to wife."

Simultaneously the door of Kayak Bill's cabin opened and the owner, a tatterdemalion figure,
stood for a moment on the doorstep.  Stretching his arms above his head, he yawned prodigiously,
and then, espying Kilbuck, sauntered across the courtyard toward him.

An old sombrero curved jauntily on red-grey hair that was overly long. A wavy beard of auburn-grey
spread over the front of his blue flannel shirt.  Hanging loosely from his shoulders a hair-seal
waistcoat, brightly trimmed with red flannel, served as a coat above faded blue overalls, and
from the knees down Kayak Bill was finished off with hip rubber boots, the turned-down tops
of which flapped with every step, lending a swashbuckling air to his rolling gait.

He seated himself leisurely on the steps below the platform in front of the trading-post door.

"By hell, Chief," he drawled, drawing a huge clasp-knife from his pocket, "I been grazin' on
this here Alasky range nigh on to twenty yars, and so help me Hannah, I never did find a place
so wild or a bunch o' hombres so tough but what sooner or later all hands starts a-singin'
o' the female sect."  With a movement of his thumb Kayak Bill released the formidable blade
of the knife, and nonchalantly, dexterously, began using it as a toothpick.

"Yas," he said slowly, in answer to the other's silence, "a-talkin' and a-singin' o' women
and love. . . .  Now, I hearn tell a heap about love and women in my time, but neither o' them
things has affected my heart ever, though one time a spell back, tobaccy did.  Still, Chief,
with all respects to yore sentiments regardin' them Chocolate Drops what inhabits yore harem,
. . . still, it sort o' roils me up to hear a white man a-talkin' and a-singin' o' takin' a
squaw to wife."

There was an involuntary contraction of the hand that was hooked under Paul Kilbuck's belt.
Not another man from Dixon's Entrance to Point Barrow would have dared to hint at the White
Chief's domestic arrangements in that gentleman's hearing, but there was something in the soft
twinkle of Kayak Bill's hazel eye, something in the crude, whimsical philosophy distilled in
the old hootch-maker's heart, that amused, while it piqued the trader at Katleean.  He sat
down now on the steps beside his visitor.

"Kayak," he said, almost gently, "when an old fellow like you begins to talk about squaws I
have to smile.  A man past sixty--!  But how about twenty-five years ago? . . .  What's a man
going to do when he finds himself on the edge of the wilderness and--he wants a woman?" Kilbuck's
voice rose slightly, his black brows drew together over the pale, unseeing eyes that sought
the distant peaks, his thin nostrils quivered.  "It's a wild country up here, Kayak.  Makes
a man hunger for something soft and feminine--and where's the pale-faced woman who would follow
a man into this--"  He finished his sentence with a wave of his hand.  "That is a woman one
would marry," he amended.  "The average female of that country down south has no spirit of
adventure in her make-up."

Kayak Bill closed his clasp-knife, restored it to his pocket and slowly drew forth an ancient
corn-cob pipe.

"Wall, Chief," he drawled presently between puffs, "I ain't a-sayin' yore not right, seein'
as you've had consid'able more experience with petticoats than me; but one time I hearn a couple
o' scientific dudes a-talkin' about females and they was of the notion that sons gets their
brains and their natures from their mammies."  Disregarding the contemptuous sound uttered
by the White Chief, Kayak's slow tones flowed on: "And I'm purty nigh pursuaded them fellows
is right. . . . Take it down in Texas now, where I was drug up.  I'm noticin' a heap o' times
how the meechinest, quietest little old ladies has the rarin'est, terrin'-est sons, hell-bent
on fightin' and adventure. . . .  Kinder seems to me, Chief, that our women has been bottled
up so long by us men folks they just ain't had no chance to strike out that way, except by
givin' o' their natures to their sons.  You take any little gal, Chief, a-fore they get her
taken with the notion that it ain't lady-like to fight, and by hell, she can lick tar outen
any boy her size in the neighborhood.  Same way with she-bears, or a huskie bitch. Durned if
they don't beat all get-out when it comes to fightin' courage!"

Kayak Bill drew once or twice on his pipe with apparently unsatisfactory results, for he slowly
removed his sombrero, drew a broom-straw from inside the band, extracted the stem of the corn-cob
and ran the straw through it.  The immediate vicinity became impregnated with a violent odor
of nicotine.  The White Chief, however, musing close by on the steps, seemed not to notice
it.  His eyes were fixed on three Indian canoes being paddled in from the lagoon across the
bay which was now taking on the opalescent tints of the late Alaska sunset.

"What I been a-sayin' goes for the white women, Chief.  As for them Chocolate Drops--wall,
I ain't made up my mind exactly.  'Pears to me if I ever went a-courtin' though, it would be
just like goin' a-huntin': no fun in it if the end was certain and easy-like.  Barrin' the
case of Silvertip and Senott, his squaw, it's like this: you say 'Come,' and they come.  You
say 'Go,' and they go.  Now, a white woman ain't that way.  By the roarin' Jasus, you never
can tell which way she's goin' to jump!"  Kayak Bill held the stem of his pipe up to the light
and squinted through it, fitted it again into the bowl and gave an experimental draw.  "But
everybody to his own cemetery, says I."

"Bill, you old reprobate, you have an uncanny way of picking the weak spots in everything.
There's some truth in that last. . . .  Gad, I'd like to get into a game of love with a woman
of my own blood up here in the wilderness! . . .  There's never been a white woman in Katleean.
It would be great sport to see one up against it here, eh, Kayak?"  The White Chief turned,
smiling, and the light in his pale, narrow eyes matched the wolfish gleam of his sharp teeth.

The face of the old hootch-maker was hidden in a smoke cloud, but his voice drawled on as calmly
as ever: "Wall, from what I hearn tell when I'm over at the Chilcat Cannery, Chief, you may
get a chance to see a white woman at Katleean purty soon.  There's a prospector named Boreland
a-cruisin' up the coast in his own schooner, the Hoonah, and from what I can make out he's
got his wife and little boy with him."

The trader turned sharply.  Like a hungry wolf scenting quarry he raised his head.  There was
a keener look in his eye.  His thin nostrils twitched.

"A white woman, Kayak?  Are you sure?"

Before Kayak Bill could answer there came an extra loud burst of song from the cabin across
the courtyard.  The door had been flung wide and in the opening swayed the arresting figure
of the leader of the wild chorus.

[1] Name by which the States is designated in the North.

[2] Newcomer.

CHAPTER II

THE CHEECHAKO

He was young and tall and slight, with a touch of recklessness in his bearing that was somehow
at variance with the clean-cut lines of his face.  He stood unsteadily on the threshold, hands
thrust deep in the pockets of his grey tweed trousers, chin up-tilted from a strong, bare throat
that rose out of his open shirt.  As the singing inside the cabin ceased, he shook back the
tumbled mass of his brown hair and alone his mellow baritone continued the whaler's song:

  "Up into the Polar Seas,
  Where the greasy whalers be,
  There's a strip of open water
  Reaching north to eighty-three----"

The White Chief, with his eyes on the singer, spoke to Kayak Bill.

"Our gentleman-bookkeeper takes to your liquid dynamite like an Eskimo to seal oil, Kayak.
He's been at Katleean three months now, and I'll be damned if he's been sober three times since
he landed.  Seems to be hitting it up extra strong now that the Potlatch is due--" Kilbuck
lowered his voice--"I want nothing said to him of the prospector and his white wife, understand?"

At the dictatorial tone flung into the last sentence there came a narrowing of the old hootch-maker's
eyes.  It was seldom that Paul Kilbuck spoke thus to Kayak Bill.

