Transcriber’s note

Minor changes have been made to punctuation; otherwise, all other inconsistencies are as in
the original.

   EDWARDI CAPELL
   MANIBVS

PREFACE.

The books catalogued in the present volume were collected by the Shakespearian scholar Edward
Capell and formed the principal part of his library during the years which he spent in the
preparation of his edition of Shakespeare’s dramatic works. After the publication of this his
life’s work and the completion of his commentary, the appearance of which however was delayed,
Capell parted with his library, the most valuable portion being presented to Trinity while
the remainder was dispersed. The conclusion of the Seniority relating to the gift is preserved
in the books of the College under the date June 26, 1779. It runs “Agreed by the Master and
Seniors, that the thanks of the Society be presented to Edward Capel, Esq. for the valuable
Collection of the old Editions of Shakespeare, and of the several manuscripts and printed books,
relating to the same Author. J. Peterborough, M.C.” The further conclusion relating to the
keeping of the books will be found quoted in the entry concerning the MS catalogue (p. 163).

Edward Capell, son of the rector of Stanton in Suffolk, was born on June 11, 1713. He was educated
at the grammar school of Bury St Edmunds and at Catharine Hall, Cambridge. In 1737 he became
deputy-inspector of plays and in 1745 groom of the privy chamber; both appointments being due
to the patronage of the Duke of Grafton. In 1760 he published his volume of ‘Prolusions.’ In
1768 appeared his edition of Shakespeare in ten volumes, dedicated to the grandson of his former
patron. The commentary was not finally published till 1783. In the meanwhile Capell had died
at his chambers in Brick Court in the Temple on February 24, 1781. He also published ‘Two Tables
elucidating the Sounds of Letters’ in 1749 and ‘Reflections on the Originallity of Authours’
in 1766.

The system on which the books have been catalogued will I think explain itself. Each work is
entered under the author’s name whenever the ascription can be made with a reasonable degree
of certainty, whether or not the name appears in the work itself. Otherwise books are entered
under their titles, except in the case of those published under pseudonyms, which are treated
as real names. Initials have not been allowed as headings. In all cases in which any possibility
of doubt exists, cross references will be found in the index. With regard to information concerning
printers, etc. I have only given notes in cases of particular interest. A list of printers
and stationers will be found at the end. In one detail I have deliberately sacrificed consistency
to expediency. I have, namely, in giving the names of authors of commendatory verses and the
like, followed the original or modernised spelling as appeared more convenient in each individual
case.

Finally it is my pleasant duty to acknowledge the kind and valuable help I have throughout
received from Mr Aldis Wright, at whose original suggestion the present work was undertaken.
I also owe certain suggestions and corrections to my friend Mr A.W. Pollard of the British
Museum, to whom the proofs were submitted.

   W. W. G.

   November, 1903.

ERRATA.

   p. 1, l. 9. for Blovnt read Blount.
   p. 2, l. 16. for Blovnt read Blount.
   p. 49, l. 8. for ₂T⁴ read 2T⁴.
          l. 11. for ‘adwertisement’ read ‘aduertisement’.
   p. 67, l. 7. for HORMANUS read HORNANUS.
   p. 90, l. 1. for Hvmphrey read Humphrey.
   p. 111, l. 22. for SALVIANUS, MASSILIENSIS read SALVIANUS,
     Massiliensis.
   p. 114, l. 26. for SAVIOLO, VICENTIO read SAVIOLO, VINCENTIO.

CAPELL’S SHAKESPEARIANA

ADLINGTON, WILLIAM.

The eleuen Bookes of the Golden Asse ... 1596. See APULEIUS, Lucius.

ALEXANDER, WILLIAM, Earl of Stirling.

The Monarchicke Tragedies; Crœsus, Darius, The Alexandræan, Iulius Cæsar. Newly enlarged By
William Alexander, Gentleman of the Princes priuie Chamber. Carmine dij superi placantur, carmine
manes. London Printed by Valentine Simmes for Ed: Blovnt. 1607.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 15.

    Collation: A-2D⁴2E²; a²B-M⁴N²; A-K⁴L², unpaged. K 4 in the third
    alphabet blank. Wanting A1 in the first (? blank). The general title
    is on A 2, followed by argument and personae to the ‘Alexandrian
    Tragedy,’ which begins on B 1. ‘Julius Caesar’ has a separate
    titlepage with same imprint on P 2. The rest of the volume (sig. a
    etc.) is the edition of the ‘Monarchic Tragedies’ of 1604 with
    omission of the first sheet, A. It begins with commendatory verses
    by Robert Ayton, which are followed by the argument and personae to
    ‘Croesus’ (some copies have four leaves to sheet a, the additional
    matter being verses to King James). Then follows the tragedy of
    ‘Croesus’ while ‘Darius’ has separate titlepage dated 1604. In the
    present copy the 1604 portion has been placed immediately after
    sheet A of the new portion, in order to get the plays in the order
    mentioned on the titlepage. This arrangement is frequently met with
    but leads to absurdities, since the 1604 portion must either be
    placed, as here, between the personae to the ‘Alexandrian Tragedy’
    and the play itself, or else, as in the copy in the British Museum,
    in the middle of sheet A.

     BM 31.

Aurora. Containing the first fancies of the Authors youth, William Alexander of Menstrie. London,
Printed by Richard Field for Edward Blount. 1604.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 15.

     Collation: A-M⁴, unpaged. M 4 blank. Epistle dedicatory to Lady
     Agnes Dowglas, Countess of Argyle. This and the ‘Paraenesis’ are
     inserted in the middle of the ‘Monarchic Tragedies’ at the end of
     the 1604 portion, but appear to be really distinct publications.

     BM 30. D 2 blank. The author’s initials
     appear at the end of the poem.

     BM 31.

ALLOT, ROBERT.

Englands Parnassus: or The choysest Flowers of our Moderne Poets, with their Poeticall comparisons.
Descriptions of Bewties, Personages, Castles, Pallaces, Mountaines, Groues, Seas, Springs,
Riuers, &c. Whereunto are annexed other various discourses, both pleasaunt and profitable.
Imprinted at London for N. L. C. B. and T. H. 1600.

   8^o. (6½ × 3¾). Y. 4.

     Collation: A-2K⁸, paged. Wanting A1 and 2 and 2K 8 (? all blank).
     The last has been erroneously said to contain an epilogue.
     Dedicatory verses to Sir Thomas Mounson, signed R. A. (i.e.
     Robert Allot, the editor). Verses to the reader signed R. A. Table
     of headings Errata. The stationers were Nicholas Ling (whose device
     appears on the titlepage), Cuthbert Burby, and Thomas Hayes. In
     some copies the name of the last appears at length on the
     titlepage. Allot’s full name also appears in some copies at the end
     of the dedicatory verses (Haz. I. 321).

   Sinker 621. BM 3.

APULEIUS, LUCIUS.

The eleuen Bookes of the Golden Asse Containing, the metamorphosie of Lucius Apuleius, enterlaced
with sundry pleasant & delectable tales, with an excellent narration of the marriage of Cupid
and Psyches, sette out in the fourth, the fifth, and the sixt Bookes. Translated out of Latin
into English by William Adlington. London Printed by Valentine Symmes. 1596.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7 × 5⅛). T. 3.

     Collation: A-2D⁴, paged. Wanting, 2D 2. Epistle dedicatory to
     Thomas, Earl of Sussex, signed by the translator. Address to the
     reader. Life of Apuleius. Author’s preface translated in verse and
     prose. This is the fourth edition; the first appeared in 1566.

   Sinker 803. BM 48.

ARIOSTO, LODOVICO.

Ariostos seven Planets Gouerning Italie. Or his Satyrs in seven Famous discourses, shewing
the estate 1. Of the Court, and Courtiers. 2. Of Libertie, and the Clergy in general. 3. Of
the Romane Clergie. 4. Of Marriage. 5. Of Soldiers, Musitians, and Louers. 6. Of Schoolemasters
and Schollers. 7. Of Honour, and the happiest life. Newly Corrected and Augmented, with many
excellent and note-worthy Notes, together with a new Addition of three most excellent Elegies,
written by the same Lodouico Ariosto, the effect whereof is contained in the Argument. Qui
te sui te sui. London Printed by William Stansby for Roger Iackson, dwelling in Fleete-streete
neere the Conduit. 1611.

   4^o.(7⅛ × 5½). S. 28. 2.

     Collation: A-Q⁴; paged. Address to the reader. Argument. Seven
     Satires. Three Elegies with head-title and fresh pagination. This
     is a reprint with additions of ‘Ariostos Satyres in seuen famous
     Discourses’ which appeared in 1608 as translated by Gervis Markham,
     but in reality by Robert Tofte.

     BM 50.

¦Orlando Furioso in English heroical Verse by Iohn Haringtõ Esquire. Principibus placuisse
viris non vltima laus est. Horace¦ [Colophon] Imprinted at London by Richard Field dwelling
in the Black-friars by Ludgate. 1591.

   F°. (9¾ × 7). I. 1.

     The word ‘Esquire.’ is printed on a slip of paper pasted on the
     titlepage, which is engraved. Collation: ¶⁸A-P⁶Q⁴R-2N⁰2O⁴,
     paged. Wanting ¶ 1, containing engraved titlepage signed Coxonus
     (i.e. T. Cockson) in some copies (Sayle 2228) but by W. Rogers in
     others (Haz. H. 11) and table of contents on verso. Last leaf
     containing colophon misplaced at the beginning. Epistle dedicatory
     to Queen Elizabeth signed by the translator. ‘A preface, or rather
     a briefe apologie of poetrie.’ Address to the reader signed Io.
     Har. At the end, ‘Allegory of the Orlando Furioso,’ Life of Ariosto
     by John Harington, alphabetical table of contents, table of
     principal tales and list of errata. Inserted at the beginning is a
     large engraved portrait of Queen Elizabeth, ‘Printed and Are to be
     sould by P. Stent without Newgate.’ The first fifty stanzas of Book
     32 were translated by Sir John Harington’s younger brother Francis.
     Each of the 46 books is preceded by a full-page engraving, some of
     which are a good deal worn in the present copy. First edition.

   Sinker 740. Now secondly imprinted the yeere. 1607. 1607.¦

   F°. (10½ × 7¼). G. 3. 2.

     Engraved titlepage as above; title partly re-engraved. Collation:
     ¶A⁸-P⁶Q⁴R-2N⁶2O⁴, paged. Wanting 2O 4 containing colophon.
     Contents etc. as before but without errata at end. Most of the
     plates are very much worn in this copy. Second edition; a third
     with the addition of Sir John Harington’s ‘Epigrams’ appeared in
     1634.

ASCHAM, ROGER.

Toxophilus, The schole of shootinge conteyned in two bookes. To all Gentlemen and yomen of
Englande, pleasaunte for theyr pastyme to rede, and profitable for theyr use to folow, both
in war and peace. The contentes of the first booke.... [Colophon] Londini. In ædibus Edouardi
Whyt-church. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum. 1545.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). T. 4. 1.

     Collation: A⁴a⁴=A=-=D=⁴, folios numbered. Wanting A 1 containing
     frontispiece etc. Frontispiece, with Latin commendatory verses by
     Walter Haddon on verso. Epistle dedicatory to Henry VIII, signed by
     the author Roger Ascham. Address ‘To all gentle men and yomen of
     Englande.’ Title with table of contents to the two books. The
     second Book begins with new foliation at sig. =D= 3. The two leaves
     a3 and 4 containing Title and Table have been placed at the
     beginning to supply the place of the frontispiece. This is the
     first edition; subsequent ones appeared in 1571 and 1589.

   Sinker 90. BM 58.

BACON, FRANCIS. Imprinted at London by Robert Barker, Printer to the Queenes most excellent
Maiestie. Anno 1601.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅜). S. 28. 1.

     Collation: A-Q⁴ unpaged. Wanting A 1 blank. There is a woodcut of
     the royal arms on verso of titlepage, which occurs again on K3^v at
     the beginning of the ‘Confessions’. The official account prepared
     by Bacon.

     BM 474

BANDELLO, MATTEO.

La prima [seconda, terza] Parte de le Novelle del Bandello. In Lucca, Per Vincentio Busdrago,
1554. e di nuovo In Londra, per S. Harding, M.DCC.XL.

La quarta Parte de le Novelle del Bandello. In Lione, Per Alessandro Marsilii, 1573. e di nuovo
In Londra, per S. Harding, M.DCCXL.

   4^o. (9¼ × 8½). K. 1-3.

     The original edition of Parts i-iii is in quarto, Part iv in
     octavo. The four parts contain a total of 214 novels, of which 28
     appear in Part iv.

Certaine Tragicall Discourses written oute of Frenche and Latin, by Geffraie Fenton, no lesse
profitable then pleasaunt, and of like necessitye to al degrees that take pleasure in antiquityes
or forreine reapportes. Mon heur viendra. Imprinted at London in Fletestrete nere to Sainct
Dunstons Churche by Thomas Marshe. Anno Domini. 1567.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅜ × 5⅜) R. 8.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: *⁸2*²A-2P⁸2Q².
     Epistle dedicatory to Lady Mary Sidney, signed and dated, Paris,
     June 22, 1567. Commendatory verses from Sir John Conway, M.H.,
     George Turberville, and Peter Beverley. Argument. Thirteen
     histories. Table of contents at the end. The first edition.
     Entirely translated from the novels of Bandello, through the French
     of Belleforest.

     Sinker 314. BM 617.

BARCLAY, ALEXANDER.

Stultifera Nauis.... 1570. The Ship of Fooles. See BRANT, Sebastian.

BARKER, WILLIAM.

The Fearefull Fansies of the Florentine Cooper ... 1599. See GELLI, Giovanni Battista.

BARKSTED, WILLIAM.

Mirrha the Mother of Adonis: or, Lustes Prodegies. By William Barksted. Horrace. Nansicetur
enim pretium, nomenque Poetæ. Whereunto are added certain Eglogs. By L. M. London Printed by
E. A. for Iohn Bache, and are to be sold at his shop in the Popes-head Palace, nere the Royall
Exchange. 1607.

   8^o. (5⅛ × 3⅜). *. 15. 1.

     Collation: A-E⁸ unpaged. Wanting E 2-8 containing the ‘Eglogs’.
     Ornament at head, middle and foot of each page of ‘Mirrba’.
     Commendatory verses signed I.W., Robert Glover, Lewes Machin,
     William Bagnall. The ‘Eglogs’ have separate titlepage, without
     imprint, on E 2: ‘Three Eglogs, The first is of Menalcas and
     Daphnis: The other two is of Apollo and Hyacinth. By Lewes Machin.’

BEAUMONT, FRANCIS, and FLETCHER, JOHN.

Comedies and Tragedies Written by Francis Beaumont And Iohn Fletcher Gentlemen. Never printed
before, And now published by the Authours Originall Copies. Si quid habent veri Vatum præsagia,
vivam. London, Printed for Humphrey Robinson, at the three Pidgeons, and for Humphrey Moseley
at the Princes Armes in S^t Pauls Church-yard. 1647.

   F^o. (13¼ × 8⅞). *. 3. 1.

     Collation: Portrait unsigned prefixed, A⁴a-c⁴d-e²f⁴g²B-K⁴L²
     2A-2S⁴ 3A-3X⁴ 4A-4I⁴ 5A-5R⁴ 5S⁶ 5T-5X⁴ 6A-6K⁴ 6L⁶ 7A-7C⁴
     7D² 7E-7G⁴ 8A-8C⁴*8D²8D-8F⁴, paged (except in preliminary
     matter and beginning afresh with each new set of signatures.)
     Wanting portrait and leaves a 1-2, b 1 and 4, c 1, d 1-e 2, all
     containing commendatory verses. Text in double columns. The
     engraved portrait of Fletcher is signed Guliel. Marshall, and has
     Latin verses subscribed, signed J. Berkenhead. Epistle dedicatory
     to Philip Earl of Pembroke, signed jointly: John Lowin, Richard
     Robinson, Eylærd Swanston, Hugh Clearke, Stephen Hammerton, Joseph
     Taylor, Robert Benfield, Thomas Pollard, William Allen and
     Theophilus Byrd. Address to the reader signed by the editor, Ja.
     Shirley. Stationer’s address signed Humphrey Moseley and dated ‘At
     the Princes Armes in S^t Pauls Church-yard. Feb. 14^th 1646.’
     Verses to the Stationer signed Grandison. Commendatory verses
     signed: H. Howard; Henry Mody, Baronet; Thomas Peyton, Agricola
     Anglo-Cantianus; Aston Cokaine, Baronet; Jo. Pettus, Knight; Robert
     Stapylton, Knight; George Lisle, Knight; I. Denham; Edw. Waller;
     Rich. Lovelace; Will. Habington; Ia. Howell, P.C.C.; Tho. Stanley;
     Roger L’Estrange; Robert Gardiner; John Web; George Buck; Joh.
     Earle; I. M.; Jasper Maine; William Cartwright (2 copies); Rich.
     Corbet D.D.; Ben Johnson; Rob. Herrick; I. Berkenhead; Edw. Powell;
     G. Hills; Jos. Howe of Trin. Coll. Oxon.; T. Palmer of Ch. Ch.
     Oxon.; Alex. Brome; John Harris; Henry Harington; Ric. Brome; Ja.
     Shirley; H. Moseley. ‘Postscript.’ Table of contents. The
     collection consists of all the plays of Beaumont and Fletcher which
     had not yet appeared in print, with the exception of the ‘Wild
     Goose Chase’, which was published by way of supplement to the
     present volume in 1652.

The Coronation A Comedy. As it was presented by her Majesties Servants at the private House
in Drury Lane. Written by John Fletcher. Gent. London, Printed by Tho. Cotes, for Andrew Crooke,
and William Cooke, and are to be sold at the signe of the Greene Dragon, in Pauls Church-yard.
1640.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 9.

     Collation: A²B-I⁴K², unpaged. Personae. Prologue. Epilogue at
     the end. This play, though published with Fletcher’s name as above,
     and later included in the folio of 1679, was claimed by Shirley.

     BM 635.

Cupids Revenge. As it was often Acted (with great applause) by the Children of the Reuells.
Written by Fran. Beaumont & Io. Fletcher Gentlemen. The second Edition. London: Printed for
Thomas Iones, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstanes Churchyard in Fleet-street. 1630.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 6.

     Collation: A²B-L⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 and L 4 (? blank).
     Personae. Epilogue at the end. The first edition appeared in 1615.

     BM 117.

The Elder Brother: a Comedie. Acted at the private house in Blacke Fryers, with great Applause,
by His late Majesties Servants. Printed according to the true Copie. Written by Francis Beaumont,
and John Fletcher. Gent. The second Edition, Corrected and Amended. London, Printed for Humphrey
Moseley, and are to be sold at his Shop at the Princes Arms in S^t. Paules Church yard. 1651.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 5.

     Collation: A-H⁴, paged. Personae. Couplet headed ‘Lectori’.
     Prologue. Epilogue at the end. The third edition really, two having
     appeared in 1637. On the verso of the titlepage and of the next
     leaf are some verses inscribed in an old hand.

The Faithfull Shepherdesse. Acted at Somerset House before the King and Queene on Twelfe night
last, 1633. And divers times since with great applause at the Private House in Blacke-Friers,
by his Majesties Servants. Written by Iohn Fletcher. The third Edition, with Addition. London,
Printed by A. M. for Richard Meighen, next to the Middle Temple in Fleet-street. 1634.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 7.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. K 4 blank. Wanting A 2, containing the
     verses of Field, Jonson, and Chapman. Commendatory verses signed:
     Fr. Beaumont, Nath. Field, Ben Ionson, G. Chapman, Shack. Marmyon.
     Dialogue ‘by way of prologue’ (by Sir W. Davenant). The first
     edition appeared undated in 1609 or early in 1610.

A King, and no King. Acted at the Blacke-Fryars, by his Maiesties Seruants. And now the third
time Printed, according to the true Copie. Written by Francis Beamont & Iohn Fletcher Gent.

   The Stationer to Dramatophilus.

   A Play and no Play, who this Booke shall read,
   Will iudge, and weepe, as if ’twere done indeed.

London, Printed by A. M. for Richard Hawkins, and are to be sold at his Shop in Chancerie Lane,
neere Serjeants Inne. 1631.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 3.

     Collation: A-M⁴, paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Personae. The first
     edition appeared in 1619.

     BM 118.

The Knight Of the Burning Pestle. Full of Mirth and Delight. Written by Francis Beamount and
Iohn Fletcher. Gent. As it is now acted by her Majesties Servants at the Private house in Drury
lane. 1635.

       -------------------  Quod si
   Iudicium subtile, videndis artibus illud
   Ad libros & ad haec Musarum dona vocares:
   Bœotum in crasso jurares aëre natum.

   Horat. in Epist. ad Oct. Aug.

London: Printed by N. O. for I. S. 1635.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 8.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. A 1 blank. Address to the readers.
     Preface headed ‘Prologue’. Personae. Epilogue at the end. Two
     editions, the second and third, were published in this year; the
     first had appeared in 1613.

     BM 118.

The Maides Tragedie: as it hath beene divers times Acted at the Black-Friers by the Kings Maiesties
Servants. Written by Francis Beaumont, and Iohn Fletcher Gentlemen. The fourth Impression,
Revised and Refined. [Woodcut.] Printed by E. G. for Henry Shepherd, and are to be sold at
the signe of the Bible in Chancery lane. 1638.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 1.

     Collation: A-K⁴L², unpaged. Personae. ‘The Stationers Censure’ in
     verse. The first edition appeared in 1629.

     BM 118.

Monsieur Thomas. A Comedy. Acted at the Private House in Blacke Fryers. The Author, Iohn Fletcher,
Gent. London, Printed by Thomas Harper, for Iohn Waterson, and are to be sold at his shop in
Pauls Church-yard, at the signe of the Croune: 1639.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 5.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, A²B-M⁴N², unpaged. Wanting N 2 (?
     blank). Epistle dedicatory to Charles Cotton, signed Richard Brome.
     Commendatory verses signed by the same. First edition.

     BM 635.

The Night-Walker, or the Little Theife. 1640.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 4.

     Collation: A²B-K⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to William Hudson,
     signed A. C. (i.e. Andrew Crooke). Personae. First edition.

     BM 635.

Philaster or Love lies a Bleeding. Acted at the Globe, and Blackfriers By his Majesties Servants.
The Authors being Francis Beaumont, and Iohn Fletcher. Gent. The fourth Impression. London,
Printed by E. Griffin for William Leak, and are to be sold at his shop in Chancerie Lane neere
the six Clarkes Office 1639.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 2.

     Collation: A-K⁴, paged. Stationer’s epistle. Personae. This is
     really the fifth edition, the first having appeared in 1620.

     BM 118.

The Tragœdy of Rollo Duke of Normandy. Acted by his Majesties Servants. Written by John Fletcher
Gent. Oxford, Printed by Leonard Lichfield Printer to the Vniversity. Anno 1640.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 1.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², paged. Personae. The second edition. The first
     edition had appeared in London the previous year under the title of
     ‘The Bloody Brother’.

     BM 635.

Rule a Wife And have a Wife. A Comoedy. 2.

     Collation: A-I⁴, paged. Prologue. Epilogue at the end.

     BM 635.

The Scornefull Lady. A Comedy. As it was Acted (with great applause) by the late Kings Majesties
Servants, at the Black-Fryers. Written by Francis Beaumont. and John Fletcher. Gentlemen. 1651.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 3. 4.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Personae. There were two editions this
     year, both styled the ‘sixt’, the present one being distinguished
     by having a printer’s device on the title. The first edition
     appeared in 1616.

The Tragedy of Thierry King of France, and his Brother Theodoret. As it was diverse times acted
at the Blacke-Friers, by the Kings Majesties Servants. Written by Fracis [sic] Beamont. and
John Fletcher Gent. 1649.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 8.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned, A2-4, B-E⁴, unpaged. Wants E 4 (?
     blank). Double columns. Prologue. Epilogue. Personae. This is a
     re-issue of the second edition (1648), A 1 being replaced by a
     half-sheet unsigned. The first edition appeared in 1621.

The Two Noble Kinsmen: Presented at the Blackfriers by the Kings Maiesties servants, with great
applause: Written by the memorable Worthies of their time; M^r. John Fletcher, and M^r. William
Shakspeare. Gent. Printed at London by Tho. Cotes; for Iohn Waterson: and are to be sold at
the signe of the Crowne in Pauls Church-yard. 1634.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 6.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-M⁴N², paged. Wanting N 2 (?
     blank). Prologue. Epilogue at the end.

[Another copy.]

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 27. 1.

     Also wanting N 2.

     BM 635.

The Wild-Goose Chase. A Comedie. As it hath been Acted with singular Applause at the Black-Friers:
Being the Noble, Last, and Onely Remaines of those Incomparable Drammatists, Francis Beaumont,
and John Fletcher, Gent. By a Person of Honour. Ite bonis avibus--London, Printed for Humphrey
Moseley, and are to be sold at the Princes Armes in St. Paules Church-yard. 1652.

   F^o. (13¼ × 8⅞). *. 3. 2.

     Collation: A²a²B-P², paged. Epistle dedicatory “To the Honour’d,
     Few, Lovers of Drammatick Poesie,” signed: John Lowin, Joseph
     Taylor. Commendatory verses signed: Richard Lovelace, Norreys
     Jephson, W. E., H: Harington, James Ramsey. Personae with parts
     assigned.

Wit without Money. A Comedie, As it hath beene Presented with good Applause at the private
house in Drurie Lane, by her Majesties Servants. Written by Francis Beamount, and John Flecher.
Gent. London Printed by Thomas Cotes, for Andrew Crooke, and William Cooke. 1639.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 4. 3.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-I⁴, unpaged. Wanting I 4 (?
     blank). Personae. First edition.

     BM 119.

The Woman Hater, or the Hungry Courtier. A Comedy, As it hath been Acted by his Majesties Servants
with great Applause. 7.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned, A2-4, B-E⁴, unpaged. Double columns.
     Prologue and epilogue in verse. Personae. Prose prologue. The first two editions appeared in 1607.

BELL, ADAM.

Adam Bell, Clim of the Cl¦ough¦ and William of Cloudesle. [Woodcut, with names printed above
the figures.] London, Printed by A. M. for W. Thackeray, at the Angel in Duck-Lane, [sic.]

=B. L.= 4^o. (7½ × 5½). Q. 14. 4.

     Collation: A-C⁴, unpaged. Wanting C 4 (? blank). The date cannot
     be earlier than about 1660, when Thackeray started as bookseller.
     The first edition of the ballad was probably that printed by
     Byddell in 1536, known only from a fragment of two leaves. (Haz. I.
     33.)

BELLEFOREST, FRANÇOIS DE.

XVIII Histoires Tragiques. Extraictes des euures Italiennes de Bandel, & mises en langue Françoise,
Les six premieres, par Pierre Boisteau, surnommé Launay, natif de Bretaigne. Les douze suiuantes
par Fran. de Belle-Forest, Comingeois. A Paris. Pour Gilles Robinot tenãt sa boutique au Palais,
en la galerie ou on va à la Chancellerie. 1564. Auec Priuilege.

   16^o. (4½ × 3). *. 21.

     Collation: a-z⁸A-2I⁸, paged. ‘Extrait du Privilege du Roy’ dated,
     Paris, Jan. 17, 1563; ‘Achevé d’imprimer’ Sept. 20, 1564. Epistle
     dedicatory, from Boisteau to Matthieu de Mauny, Abbe des Noyers.
     Address to the reader. Belleforest’s continuation begins with
     head-title at sig. t 6, preceded by commendatory verses by
     Belleforest ‘Au seigneur de Launay Breton’ (i.e. Boisteau).
     Epistle dedicatory by Belleforest to Charles Maximilian, due
     d’Orleans. Table of the whole eighteen histories at the end. The
     six novels translated by Boisteau appeared in 1559, and the same
     year saw the publication of the continuation by Belleforest
     containing the other twelve. The two parts were first printed
     together at Lyons in 8^o the same year as the present edition. In
     the subsequent volumes Belleforest drew from many other sources
     besides Bandello, while throughout he enlarges greatly upon his
     original.

Le Cinquiesme Tome des Histoires Tragiques, Le succez, & euenement desquelles est pour la plus
part recueilly des choses aduenues de nostre temps, & le reste des histoires anciennes. Par
F. de Belleforest Comingeois. A Lyon, Par les heritiers de Benoist Rigaud. M. DCI.

   16^o. (4¾ × 2⅞). *. 20.

     Collation: A-2P⁸, paged. Epistle dedicatory to Anthoinette de
     Turaine, Contesse de Clinchamp, signed and dated, Paris, July 25,
     1570. Commendatory verses by Justus Ludovicus a Tornone in Latin.
     Italian verses headed ‘De gli Spiriti Francesi à la Francia’ and
     ‘Il libro, de se stesso.’ Commendatory verses by Jaques Moysson,
     and A. du Verdier. Table at end. The volume contains eight
     histories. The first edition of vol. v. appeared at Paris in 1570.
     The final edition of the ‘Histoires Tragiques’ is that published at
     Rouen in 1603-4, in 7 vols. 16^o.

The Hystorie of Hamblet. London Imprinted by Richard Bradocke, for Thomas Pauier, and are to
be sold at his shop in Corne-hill, neere to the Royall Exchange 1608.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼) S. 33. 3.

     Collation: A-H⁴I², unpaged. Wanting A1 and I2 (? blank).
     Argument. Preface. Translated from the third ‘Histoire’ of the
     fifth volume of Belleforest’s collection. The present copy, which
     is supposed to be unique, came into Capell’s hands from the
     collection of the Duke of Newcastle (see R. Farmer’s ‘Learning of
     Shakespeare,’ ed. 2, 1767, p. 59). Capell had previously possessed
     a fragment (Id. p. 57).

BOCCACCIO, GIOVANNI.

Il Decameron Di Messer Giovanni Boccaccio. Del MDXXVII.

   4^o. (8½ × 6¼). O. 1.

     On the verso of the facsimile titlepage of 1527 occurs the imprint
     “Londra per Tommaso Edlin. MDCCXXV.” With engraved portrait and
     frontispiece. The reprint known as Consul Smith’s edition.

The Modell of Wit, Mirth, Eloquence, and Conuersation. Framed in Ten Dayes, of an hundred curious
Pieces, by seuen Honourable Ladies, and three Noble Gentlemen. Preserued to Posterity by the
Renowned Iohn Boccacio, the first Refiner of Italian prose: And now translated into English.
Printed by Isaac Iaggard, for Mathew Lownes, 1625.

   F^o. (11⅛ × 7⅛). F. 9. 1.

     Title within ornamental border originally used in 1593 for Sidney’s
     ‘Arcadia’. Collation: A-V⁶2A⁸2B-2N⁶, folios numbered. 2N 6
     blank. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to Philip Herbert,
     Earl of Montgomery. Table of contents in double columns. Woodcuts
     in text.

     BM 239.

The Decameron containing An hundred pleasant Nouels. Wittily discoursed, betweene seuen Honourable
Ladies, and three Noble Gentlemen. The last Fiue Dayes. London, Printed by Isaac Iaggard, 1620.

   F^o. (11⅛ × 7⅛). F. 9. 2.

     Title within border formed of woodcuts used also in the text.
     Collation: A⁴¶-2¶⁴3¶²B-2Z⁴3A⁶, folios numbered. Address
     to the reader. Table of contents in single columns. Woodcuts in
     text.

     BM 460.

Thirteene most pleasaunt and delectable questions, Entituled, A disport of diuerse noble personages,
written in Italian by M. Iohn Bocace Florentine and poet Laureat, in his booke named Philocopo:
Englished by H. G. Imprinted at London by A. I. and are to be sold in Paules churchyard, by
Thomas Woodcocke. 1587. [Colophon] Imprinted at London, by Abell Ieffes, and are to be solde
in Paules churchyard by Thomas Woodcocke, dwelling at the signe of the Beare. 1587.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¼ × 3½). *. 12.

     Collation: A-L⁸, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory from H. G. to William
     Rice, dated Mar. 6, 1566. Verses to the reader. Argument.
     Translated from the fifth book of the ‘Philocolo’. The first
     edition appeared under the title ‘A Pleasant disport’ &c., in 1567.
     The present edition is the fourth that is known. Both H. Grantham
     and H. Gifford have been suggested as the translator.

     Sinker 1093. BM 239.

BODENHAM, JOHN.

Bel-vedére or the Garden of the Muses.

   Quem referent Musæ viuet dum robora tellus,
   Dum cœlum stellas, dum vehet amnis aquas.

Imprinted at London by F. K. for Hugh Astley, dwelling at Saint Magnus Corner. 1600.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3¾). *. 1. 1.

     Collation: A⁸, two leaves unsigned, B-R⁸, paged. Wanting A 1 (?
     blank). Address to the reader. Coat of arms of the Bodenhams.
     Commendatory verses to Iohn Bodenham the editor, signed A. M.
     (i.e. Anthony Munday?); other verses signed A. B., W. Rankins, R.
     Hathway. Dedicatory verses to the universities of Oxford and
     Cambridge respectively (two leaves unsigned and printed on recto
     only). At the end, prose ‘Conclusion’ followed by alphabetical
     table of headings.

     Sinker 820. BM 240.

BORDE, ANDREW.

Scogin’s Jests: Full of witty Mirth, and pleasant Shifts; done by him in France and other places.
Being A Preservative against Melancholy. Gathered by Andrew Board, Doctor of Physick. This
may be Reprinted, R. P. London: Printed for W. Thackeray at the Angel in Duck-lane, near West-Smithfield,
and J. Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5⅜). Q. 8. 3.

     Collation: A²B-F⁴, paged. Prologue. Epigram by Scogin. Table of
     contents. The date is after 1660. (See Bell, Adam.) There is not
     the least evidence for fathering the ‘Scogin’ jests upon Borde.

BRANT, SEBASTIAN.

Stultifera Nauis, qua omnium mortalium narratur stultitia, admodum vtilis & necessaria ab omnibus
ad suam salutem perlegenda, è Latino sermone in nostrum vulgarem versa, & iam diligenter impressa.
An. Do. 1570. [Woodcut.] The Ship of Fooles, wherin is shewed the folly of all States, with
diuers other workes adioyned vnto the same, very profitable and fruitfull for all men. Translated
out of Latin into Englishe by Alexander Barclay Priest. [Colophon] Imprinted at London in Paules
Churchyarde by Iohn Cawood Printer to the Queenes Maiestie. Cum Priuilegio ad imprimendum solum.

   F^o. =B. L.= (11 × 7½). F. 13.

     Collation: ¶-2¶⁶A-2V⁶2X⁴; A-G⁶; A-D⁶, folios numbered in
     first alphabet. Epistle dedicatory from Alexander Barclay to Thomas
     Cornissh, Bishop of Bath, in Latin. Latin verses by Iacobus Locher.
     Latin epistle of the same to Sebastian Brant, dated, Friburg, Feb.
     1, 1497. Commendatory verses in Latin by the same to Brant. More
     Latin verses by the same. Latin verses by the same to Johannes
     Bergmannus de Olpe. Latin verses by Brant to Locher. Latin prologue
     by Locher. Same in English. Introductory verses in Latin and
     English. Prose Argument in Latin and English. Latin verses by
     Locher, and by Brant. Copy of English verses. Text of the ‘Ship of
     Fools’ with woodcuts. At the end is the note ‘Thus endeth the Ship
     of Fooles, Translated out of Latin, French and Duch, into Englishe,
     by Alexander Barclay Priest, at that time Chaplen in the Colledge
     of S. Mary Otery in the Countie of Deuon. Anno Domini. 1508.’ More
     Latin verses by Locher. English verses by the translator. Table of
     contents in Latin and English. The second alphabet contains, with
     head-title, ‘The Mirrour of good Maners. Conteining the foure
     Cardinal Vertues, compiled in Latin by Dominike Mancin, and
     translated into English by Alexander Barclay priest, and Monke of
     Ely. At the desire of the right worshipfull syr Giles Alington
     Knight.’ Latin and English in parallel columns. At the end verses,
     in Latin and English, by Petrus Carmelianus. The third alphabet
     contains, with head-title, ‘Certayne Egloges of Alexander Barclay
     Priest, Whereof the first three conteyne the miseryes of Courtiers
     and Courtes of all princes in generall, Gathered out of a booke
     named in Latin, Miseriæ Curialium, compiled by Eneas Siluius Poet
     and Oratour’ (i.e. Æneas Silvius Piccolomini, afterwards Pius
     II.) five in number, in double columns. Two editions of the
     translation of Brant appeared in 1509 from the presses respectively
     of R. Pynson and Wynkin de Worde, the latter of whom printed
     another edition in 1518. The present edition appears to be the
     fourth. Of the Eclogues, i-iv were printed by R. Pynson, the fifth
     by W. de Worde early in the century; i-iii were twice reprinted
     about the middle of the century, while the present is the first
     edition containing all five.

     Sinker 210. BM 260.

BRETON, NICHOLAS.

¦The Arbor of Amorous Deuices: Wherein young Gentlemen may reade many pleasant fancies & fine
deuices: And thereon meditate diuers sweete Conceites to court the loue of faire Ladies and
Gentlewomen: By N. B. Gent. Imprinted at London by Richard Iones, at the Rose and Crowne, neere
S. Andrewes Church. 1597.¦

   4^o. (7¼ × 4¾). S. 8. 3.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1, 4, D 3, 4, E 2-4, and A 3
     badly, D 1, 2, E 1 slightly defective. Address to the readers,
     signed “R. I. Printer.” Only one edition of the work appears to be
     known, but it was entered on the Stationers’ Register as early as
     Jan. 7, 1593-4. The author was Nicholas Breton. The above title is
     given by Mr Hazlitt (H. 57) apparently from the Beauclerk
     sale-catalogue (1781) lot 3241. The present copy is the only one
     now known.

     Sinker 470.

Grimellos Fortunes, With his Entertainment in his trauaile. A discourse full of pleasure. London
Printed for E. White, and are to bee solde at his Shoppe neere the little North doore of S.
Paules-Church at the Signe of the Gun. 1604.

=B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5). S. 36. 3.

     Collation: A²B-D⁴E², unpaged. Address to the reader signed B. N.
     (i.e. Nicholas Breton). The text is in dialogue.

     BM 1129.

BROKE, ARTHUR.

¦The Tragicall Historye of Romeus and Iuliet, written first in Italian by Bandell, and nowe
in Englishe by Ar. Br. In ædibus Richardi Tottelli. Cum Priuilegio.¦ [Colophon] Imprinted at
London in Flete strete within Temble [sic] barre, at the signe of the hand and starre, by Richard
Tottill the .xix. day of Nouember. An. do. 1562.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (6⅜ × 4). X. 4. 2.

     Collation: four leaves unsigned, A-K⁸, L⁴, folios numbered.
     Wanting the first three leaves, containing titlepage, prose address
     to the reader, signed Ar. Br. Verses to the reader and an argument
     in verse precede the poem. Indexed throughout by Capell with the
     corresponding passages in the ‘Histoires Tragiques’ ed. 1564. 16^o.
     The poem is based on Boisteau’s version of Bandello’s novel (‘Hist.
     Trag.’ No. 3. Bandello, 11. 9). First edition.

     Sinker 228.

The Tragicall historie of Romeus and Iuliet. Contayning in it a rare example of true constancie:
with the subtill counsels and practises of an old Fryer, and their ill euent. Res est solliciti
plena timoris amor. At London, Imprinted by R. Robinson, 1587.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¼ × 3½). *. 8. 2.

     Collation: A-N⁸, folios numbered. A 1 blank. Verses to the reader.
     Argument in verse. Second edition.

     Sinker 704.

BULLOKAR, WILLIAM.

Bullokars Booke at large, for the Amendment of Orthographie for English speech: wherein, a
most perfect supplie is made, for the wantes and double sounde of letters in the olde Orthographie,
with Examples for the same.... Heerevnto are also ioyned written Copies with the same Orthographie.
Giue God the praise, that teacheth alwaies. When truth trieth, errour flieth. Seene and allowed
according to order. Imprinted at London by Henrie Denham. 1580.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5¼). Q. 10. 4.

     Collation: A-R², 2 leaves unsigned, paged. Author’s preface signed
     W. B. Prologue in verse. The last sheet contains specimens of the
     amended orthography printed from blocks on recto of leaves only.

     Sinker 342. BM 293.

BURTON, WILLIAM.

Seuen Dialogues Both Pithie and Profitable ... 1606. See ERASMUS, Desiderius.

BUTLER, CHARLES.

The English Grammar, Or The Institution of Letters, Syllables, and Woords, in the English tung.
Wher‘unto is annexed An Index of woords Lik‘ and Unlik‘. By Charles Butler, Magd. Master of
Arts. Arist. Polit. lib 8, cap. 3. Grammatica addiscenda pueris, utpotè ad vitam utilis. Oxford,
Printed by William Turner, for the Author: 1634.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5¼). S. 32. 4.

     Collation: *⁴2*²A-K⁴a-c⁴d², paged A-K only. Epistle
     dedicatory from the author to Prince Charles. Address to the
     reader, signed C. B. M. (= Charles Butler Magd.) and dated, Wotton,
     Sept. 1, 1633. Another address. Commendatory verses in Latin signed
     S. W. Sheets a-d contain the ‘Index of Woords’ (homonyms) mentioned
     on the titlepage. Printer’s address to the reader at end. Prefixed
     is a sheet (*⁴) containing cancelled preliminary matter, namely
     titlepage as above but without the peculiarities of orthography and
     dated 1633, the first address to the reader, also in ordinary
     orthography, and S. W.’s verses. Some copies only have the earlier
     titlepage, some only the later, but the two issues differ in the
     preliminary matter alone.

     BM 299.

CAPELL, EDWARD.

Prolusions; or, select Pieces of antient Poetry,--compil’d with great Care from their several
Originals, and offer’d to the Publick as Specimens of the Integrity that should be found in
the Editions of worthy Authors,--in three Parts; containing, I. The notbrowne Mayde; Master
Sackvile’s Induction; and, Overbury’s Wife: II. Edward the third, a Play, thought to be writ
by Shakespeare: III. Those excellent didactic Poems, intitl’d--Nosce teipsum, written by Sir
John Davis; with a Preface.

   Impius hæc tam culta novalia miles habebit?
   Barbarus has segetes?

   Virg. Ecl. I.

London: Printed for J. and R. Tonson in the Strand. 1760. [Colophon] From the Press of Dryden
Leach, in Crane-court, Fleet-street. Oct. 6^th. 1759.

   8^o. (7 × 4½). S. 39.

     Dedication to Lord Willoughby of Parham, subscribed “the Editor”
     (i.e. Edward Capell).

CAXTON, WILLIAM.

The Ancient Historie of the destruction of Troy.... 1617. See LE FÈVRE, Raoul.

CERVANTES SAAVEDRA, MIGUEL DE.

¦The History of Don-Quichote. The first parte. Printed for Ed: Blounte¦

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). S. 16.

     The engraved titlepage to the second part has been inserted instead
     of that properly belonging. The only difference is in the words
     ‘The second parte’ which have at some time had a piece of paper
     pasted over them. Collation: ¶⁴A-2O⁸, paged. Wanting ¶ 4 (second
     leaf of preface). Epistle dedicatory to the Lord of Walden, signed
     by the translator, Thomas Shelton. Author’s preface to the reader.
     Sonnets in praise of Don Quixote. Table of contents. Text in four
     books. More poems on Don Quixote. The first part originally
     appeared in 1612; this is the second edition, c. 1620.

     BM 345.

The second Part of the History of the Valorous and witty Knight-Errant, Don Quixote of the
Mançha. Written in Spanish by Michael Ceruantes: And now Translated into English. London, Printed
for Edward Blount. 1620.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). S. 17.

     Collation: A-2I⁸2K⁴, paged. Wanting 2K 4 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to George, Marquess of Buckingham, signed Ed: Blount.
     Author’s prologue to the reader. Table of contents. Errata. Text
     not divided into books.

     BM 345.

CHALONER, Sir THOMAS.

The praise of Folie.... 1549. See ERASMUS, Desiderius.

CHAPMAN, GEORGE.

Hero And Leander ... 1637. See MUSÆUS.

The Whole Works of Homer.... n. d. See HOMER.

CHARLES II.

A Character of Charles the Second written By an Impartial Hand, and exposed to publick View
For Information of the People. London, Printed for Gabriel Bedell, and are to be sold at the
Middle Temple Gate in Fleetstreet, 1660.

   4^o. (9⅞ × 7). I. 1. 2.

     Collation: portrait prefixed, A⁴, paged. Engraved portrait signed
     G. Faithorne facing title. According to Wood the author was George
     Morley, D.D., who later in the same year became bishop of
     Winchester, but the attribution is not substantiated. The BM
     catalogue ascribes it to Sir Samuel Tuke, on what authority does
     not appear.

CHAUCER, GEOFFREY.

The workes of Geffray Chaucer newly printed, with dyuers workes whiche were neuer in print
before: As in the table more playnly dothe appere. Cum priuilegio. [Colophon] Imprinted at
London by Rycharde Kele, dwellynge in Lombarde strete nere vnto the stockes market at the sygne
of the Egle. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum.

   =B. L.= F^o. (12¼ × 8). C. 2.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A⁸B-V⁶X⁴2A-3Q⁶, folios
     numbered. Double columns. Wanting 3Q 6 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Henry VIII. Table of contents. Preliminary verses.
     After the ‘Canterbury Tales’ is a half-title to ‘The Romaút of the
     Rose’ within same border (sig. 2A 1). After the colophon appears a
     Latin epitaph on Chaucer by Stephanus Surigonus. Copies of this
     edition are also found bearing in the colophon the names of
     ‘Wyllyam Bonham’, ‘Thomas Petit’, and ‘Robart Toye.’ They are all
     alike undated. Mr Hazlitt places it before the edition of 1542,
     thus making it the second collected edition, and suggests the date
     1538; Prof. Skeat and the BM catalogue place it after, making it
     the third, which seems more likely, the former dating it 1550, the
     latter 1545. The only dated book by Bonham, it may be remarked,
     appeared in 1542. In any case it is a reprint of Thynne’s text
     first printed in 1532.

     Sinker III. BM 367.

COLLINS, JOHN.

A Letter to George Hardinge, Esq. on the Subject of a Passage in Mr. Stevens’s Preface to his
Impression of Shakespeare.... London: Printed by B. Sibthorp, for G. Kearsly in Fleet-Street,
M, DCC, LXXVII.

   4^o. (9½ × 7⅜). 1. 3. 2.

     MS. note on titlepage: ‘Seen through the Press by Mr. H--go: Note
     on p. 18. added, and the Post-Script new-molded by him. E. C.’ The
     postscript is preceded by a ‘Sonnet To Mr. Capell’. Attributed in
     the BM catalogue and doubtfully by Lowndes to the Rev. John Collins
     of Hertfordshire.

COMMINES, PHILIPPE DE, Seigneur d Argenton.

The Historie of Philip de Commines Knight, Lord of Argenton. Imprinted at London by Ar. Hatfield,
for I. Norton. 1596

   F^o. (11½ × 8). E. 4.

     Title within ornamental border bearing the initials H D (i.e. H.
     Denham). Collation: A⁶a²B-X⁶Y⁴Z⁸2A-2L⁶, one leaf unsigned,
     paged. Sig. 2K 5 appears in duplicate; the first is presumably
     intended as a cancel though no alteration is apparent. Epistle
     dedicatory to Lord Burley, signed by the translator, Thomas Danett.
     Life of Philip de Commines with a reply to the accusations of
     Jacobus Meyerus. Table of contents. The history, preceded by the
     author’s preface to the Archbishop of Vienne. After Bk vi there
     follow eight chapters headed ‘A Supply of the Historie of Philip de
     Commines from the death of King Lewis the II. till the beginning of
     the wars of Naples, to wit, from 1483. till 1493. of all the which
     time Commines writeth nothing’. Bks vii and viii follow, after
     which there are a number of genealogical tables. The single leaf
     inserted at the end contains errata. This is the earliest known
     edition, though a translation was entered to Thomas Marsh as early
     as 1565-6.

     Sinker 663.

CONTENTION.

The First part of the Contention betwixt the two famous houses of Yorke and Lancaster, with
the death of the good Duke Humphrey: And the banishment and death of the Duke of Suffolke,
and the Tragical end of the prowd Cardinall of Winchester, with the notable Rebellion of Jacke
Cade: And the Duke of Yorkes first clayme to the Crowne. London Printed by Valentine Simmes
for Thomas Millington, and are to be sold at his shop under S. Peters church in Cornewall. 1600.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 4¾). T. 8. 3.

     Collation: A-H⁴. Wanting all after G 1. Another edition is said to
     have appeared the same year, printed by W. W. for Thomas
     Millington. This may however be due to confusion with the ‘True
     Tragedy of Richard Duke of York’. The first edition had appeared in
     1594.

     Sinker 808. Diuided into two Parts: And newly corrected
and enlarged. Written by William Shakespeare, Gent. Printed at London,
for T. P.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 12. 4.

     Collation: A-2A⁴2B², with one leaf inserted before sig. R,
     unpaged. Wanting 2B 2 (? blank). Part ii begins at sig. I 1 with
     the head-title ‘The Second Part. Containing the Tragedie of Richard
     Duke of Yorke, and the good King Henrie the Sixt.’ ‘Pericles’
     begins with separate titlepage dated 1619 (q.v.) on inserted
     leaf. In this copy ‘Pericles’ is bound up in front of the
     ‘Contention’. This is either the third or fourth edition of the
     ‘First Part of the Contention,’ the third of the ‘True Tragedy of
     Richard Duke of York’ which first appeared in 1595, and the fourth
     of ‘Pericles.’

     BM 1388.

COOPER, THOMAS.

Thesaurus Linguæ Romanæ & Britannicæ, tam accurate congestus, vt nihil penè in eo desyderari
possit, quod vel Latinè complectatur amplissimus Stephani Thesaurus, vel Anglicè, toties aucta
Eliotæ Bibliotheca: opera & industria Thomæ Cooperi Magdalenensis.... Accessit Dictionarium
historicum & poëticum.... In Thesaurum Thomæ Cooperi Magdalenensis, hexastichon Richardi Stephani....
Impressum Londini. 1573.

   F^o. (12¾ × 8¾). B. 2.

     Collation: ¶⁶A-6V⁶7D-7O⁶7P-7Q⁴, unpaged. Double columns.
     Wanting ¶ 1 (? blank), also 7P 3, 4 and 7Q 3. To supply this
     deficiency the last six leaves of Bynneman’s edition of 1584
     including colophon, have been bound in after 7P 2. Latin epistle
     dedicatory to Robert Dudley, earl of Leicester, from Thomas Cooper.
     Address to the reader in Latin and another in English. Commendatory
     verses in Latin from Alexander Nowellus, Thomas Wykus (2 copies),
     Thomas Valens (2 copies), Ia. Calfhillus, and in Greek by Richardus
     Stephanus (3 copies). The ‘Dictionarium Historicum & Poeticum’
     begins with head-title on 7D 1. On the titlepage is the cut of the
     Dudley crest as in James Sandford’s ‘Garden of Pleasure’ (q.v.).
     Based on Sir T. Elyot’s ‘Dictionary,’ the first edition of which
     appeared in 1538.

     Sinker 829. BM 406.

COPLEY, ANTHONY.

Wits, Fits, and Fancies: Or, A generall and serious Collection, of the Sententious Speeches,
Answers, Iests, and Behauiours, of all sortes of Estates, From the Throane to the Cottage.
Being properly reduced to their seuerall heads, for the more ease of the Reader. Newly Corrected
and augmented, with many late, true, and wittie accidents. Musica mentis, medecina Mæstus.
London Printed by Edw: Allde, dwelling in little Saint Bartholmewes, neer Christ-Church. 1614.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 2.

     Collation: A²B-2B⁴2C², paged. Address to the reader. The
     original edition appeared in 1595 and bore on the title the
     initials of the author, Anthony Copley.

     BM 1620.

CORYATE, THOMAS.

Coryats Crambe, or his Colwort Twise Sodden, And Now serued in with other Macaronicke dishes,
as the second course to his Crudities. London Printed by William Stansby 1611.

   4^o. (8 × 6). P. 2. 1.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: a-b⁴, 1 leaf unsigned,
     A-D⁴, D 3, 4, 1 leaf unsigned, D 1, 2, 1 leaf unsigned,
     a-b⁴c-g⁸h⁴ H 1-3 i-l⁴, unpaged. The book consists entirely of
     dedicatory epistles, orations, commendatory verses and the like. On
     sig. a 4 (second l. c. alphabet) occurs a large woodcut of the
     Prince of Wales’ badge with the initials H. P. (i.e. Prince
     Henry). The present copy differs from the three preserved in the
     BM, which have collation a-b⁴, 1 leaf unsigned (necessitated by
     the catchword, but only preserved in one copy), A-D⁴, D 3, 4, 2
     leaves unsigned, E-G⁴ (G 4 blank, only preserved in one copy),
     H 1-3.

     BM 411.

COTGRAVE, JOHN.

The English Treasury of Wit and Language, collected Out of the most, and best of our English
Drammatick Poems; Methodically digested into Common Places For Generall Use. By John Cotgrave
Gent. Varietas delectat, Certitudo Prodest. London, Printed for Humphrey Moseley, and are to
be sold at his Shop at the sign of the Princes Armes in S. Pauls Church-yard, 1655.

   8^o. (6½ × 4¼). X. 2.

     Collation: A⁴B-V⁸X⁴, paged. Address to the reader, signed. Table
     of headings. The Shakespearian quotations have been marked by
     Capell.

COTGRAVE, RANDLE.

A French-English Dictionary, Compil’d by Mr Randle Cotgrave: With Another in English and French.
Whereunto are newly added the Animadversions and Supplements, &c. of James Howell Esquire.
Inter Eruditos Cathedram habeat Polyglottes. London, Printed by W. H. for Humphrey Robinson,
and are to be sold at his shop at the signe of the three Pigeons, in Pauls Church-yard. 1650.

   F^o. (12½ × 8½) B. 8.

     Collation: a-d⁴B-4V⁴4X², two leaves unsigned, A-2F⁴2G⁶,
     unpaged. Last leaf blank. Epistle dedicatory ‘To the Nobility and
     Gentry of Great Britain’, signed James Howell. French grammar &c.
     Epistle dedicatory to William Cecil, Lord Burghley, signed Randle
     Cotgrave. French address to the reader signed ‘I. L’oiseau de
     Tourval, Parisien Δ.’ The unsigned sheet begins Part ii,
     with separate titlepage: ‘Dictionaire Anglois & François, pour
     l’vtilité de tous ceux, qui sont desireux de deux Langues. A
     Dictionary English and French; Compiled for the comodity of all
     such as are desirous of both the Languages, By Robert Sherwood
     Londoner. London, Printed by Susan Islip. 1650’, within
     ornamental border. Address to the reader in French, signed ‘R. S.
     de Londres’. Address and note to the reader in English, the former
     signed. At the end, forms of address, irregular verbs, vocabularies
     etc. The original edition of Cotgrave’s dictionary appeared in
     1611. The present appears to be the third edition. Sherwood’s
     portion first appeared in the edition of 1632.

CRASHAW, RICHARD.

Steps to the Temple, Sacred Poems. With The Delights of the Muses. By Richard Crashaw, sometimes
of Pembroke Hall, and late fellow of S. Peters Coll. in Cambridge. The second Edition wherein
are added divers pieces not before extant. 1648.

   12^o. (5¾ × 3⅜). Z. 5.

     Collation: A⁴B-F^{12}A-C^{12}, 2 leaves unsigned, paged. Preface.
     Motto. ‘Steps to the Temple.’ Table. ‘The Delights of the Muses’
     with separate titlepage (T. W. for H. Moseley ... 1648) at sig. F
     12, and fresh pagination. Table at the end (unsigned). Second
     edition, the first having appeared in 1646.

DANETT, THOMAS.

The Historie of Philip de Commines ... 1596 See COMMINES, Philippe de.

DANIEL, SAMUEL.

The Whole Workes of Samuel Daniel Esquire in Poetrie. London, Printed by Nicholas Okes, for
Simon Waterson, and are to be sold at his shoppe in Paules Church-yard, at the Signe of the
Crowne. 1623.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅜). S. 25.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned, A-C⁴D-Q⁸R⁴2A-2S⁸2T⁶,
     A-M⁸N⁴, paged. Wanting A 4 (? blank) and E 4 in the ‘Civil Wars’.
     The two preliminary leaves (here misplaced after signature A)
     contain the general titlepage and an epistle dedicatory to Prince
     Charles signed by Iohn Daniel, brother of the author, who
     superintended the edition. Then follows the edition of the ‘Civil
     Wars’ which had previously appeared as a separate publication in
     1609. It has an engraved titlepage containing portrait, signed T.
     Cockson and dated 1609; also epistle dedicatory to Mary Countess
     Dowager of Pembroke, signed. In the rest of the volume ‘Philotas’,
     ‘Hymens Triumph’, ‘The Queens Arcadia’, ‘The Vision of the Twelve
     Goddesses’, ‘Cleopatra’, ‘The Letter of Octavia’ etc., and ‘The
     Panegyrike’ etc. have separate titlepages with the same imprint;
     ‘Musophilus’ and ‘Rosamond’ half-titles, after which follow ‘Delia’
     and the miscellaneous verses and epistles. The ‘Defence of Rime’
     mentioned on the titlepage to the ‘Panegyrick’ does not appear in
     the volume. This was the first complete edition of Daniel’s
     poetical works. Some copies are said to have a titlepage:
     ‘Drammaticke Poems.... 1635’, which was probably designed for issue
     with the remaining sheets after the stock of the 1609 ‘Civil Wars’
     was exhausted.

     BM 445.

DAVIES, Sir JOHN.

A Discouerie of the true Causes why Ireland was neuer entirely Subdued, nor brought vnder Obedience
of the Crowne of England, vntill the Beginning of his Maiesties happie Raigne. Printed for
Iohn Iaggard, dwelling within Temple Bar, at the Signe of the Hand and Star. 1612.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5). U. 1.

     Collation: A-2N⁴2O², paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Dedication
     to King James ‘By his Maiesties Atturney Generall, of Ireland’,
     (i.e. Sir John Davies). Errata at the end. Republished the
     following year under the title of ‘A Discoverie of the State of
     Ireland’.

     BM 453.
London, Printed by Richard Field for Iohn Standish. 1599.

   4^o. (7¾ × 5¾). Q. 9. 1.

     Collation: A²B-L⁴M², paged. Wanting M 2 (? blank). Dedicatory
     verses to Queen Elizabeth signed by the author, Iohn Davies.

     BM 453.

[Another copy.]

   4^o. (7¾ × 5⅞). Q. 9. 3.

     Also wanting M 2.

[Another copy.]

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5). S. 36. 4.

     This copy wants, besides the blank, the titlepage and the last leaf
     of text. These have been supplied in MS. by Capell. The copy
     contains a large number of analytical notes in an early hand. It
     has also been carefully collated throughout by Capell with the
     subsequent edition of 1602 and the results entered in red ink. Newly corrected and amended. London, Printed
     by Richard Field for Iohn Standish. 1602’. Hymnes
of Astræa in Acrosticke Verse. Orchestra, or, A Poeme of Dauncing. In a
Dialogue betweene Penelope, and one of her Wooers. Not finished.
London, Printed by Augustine Mathewes for Richard Hawkins, and are to
be sold at his Shop in Chancery Lane, neere Serieants Inne. 1622.

   8^o. (6⅜ × 4¼). X. 1.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 and L 4 (? blank).
     Dedicatory verses ‘To my most gracious dread Soveraigne’ (i.e.
     Queen Elizabeth) signed by the author Iohn Davies. ‘Astrea’ and
     ‘Orchestra’ have each a separate titlepage bearing the same date.
     Fifth edition. ‘Astræa’ was added in the fourth edition, 1619; the
     ‘Orchestra’ first appeared in the present edition, which was the
     last issued during the life of the author.

     BM 453.

DAVIES, JOHN, of Hereford.

Microcosmos. The Discouery of the Little World, with the government thereof.

   Manilius.

   An mirum est habitare Deum sub pectore nostro?
   Exemplumq; Dei quisq; est sub imagine paruâ.

By Iohn Davies. At Oxford, Printed by Ioseph Barnes, and are to bee solde in Fleetestreete
at the signe of the Turkes head by Iohn Barnes. 1603.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 12. 1.

     Collation: A-2O⁴2P², paged. Dedicatory verses to King James and
     to the Queen, both signed. Five copies of verses by Davies.
     Commendatory verses signed: Io. Sanfordus (Lat.), Robertus
     Burhillus (Lat.), N. Debillus (Lat.), Iohn Iames (Lat. and Eng.),
     T. R. (Lat.), Douglas Castilion (one copy unsigned), Charles
     Fitz-Ieffry (one copy unsigned), Nicholas Deeble, Nathanael Tomkins
     (Lat.), and the author’s brother Richard Davies. Verse Preface to
     the King, signed. Verses to the Prince of Wales, signed.
     ‘Microcosmus’ is followed by ‘An Extasy’; both are in verse.
     Sonnets and poems by Davies. Commendatory verses from N. Deeble and
     Ed. Lapworth (Lat.).

     BM 452.

DEKKER, THOMAS.

English Villanies seven severall Times Prest to Death by the Printers; But (still reviving
againe) are now the eighth time, (as at the first) discovered by Lanthorne and Candle-Light;
And the helpe of a New Cryer, called O-Per-Se-O: Whose loud voyce proclaimes to all that will
heare him; Another Conspiracy of Abuses lately plotting together, to hurt the Peace of this
Kingdome; which the Bell-man (because he then went stumbling i’th darke) could never see, till
Now. And because a Company of Rogues, cunning Canting Gypsies, and all the Scumme of our Nation
fight here under their Tattered Colours, At the end is a Canting Dictionary, to teach their
Language: with Canting Songs. A Booke to make Gentlemen Merry. Citizens Warie. Countrimen Carefull.
Fit for all Iustices to reade over, because it is a Pilot, by whom they may make Strange Discoveries.
London, Printed by M. Parsons, and are to be sold by Iames Becket, at the Inner-Temple Gate
in Fleet-street. 1638.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5½). S. 28. 4.

     Collation: A-O⁴, unpaged. Woodcut of the Bellman with verses below
     on verso of titlepage. Epistle dedicatory to the Middlesex Justices
     of the Peace, signed T. Dekker. Address to the reader. Table of
     contents. This work was constantly reprinted under different
     titles. The earliest edition appeared in 1608 as ‘Lanthorne and
     Candle-light. Or The Bell-mans second Nights walke’ (Haz. II. 688),
     being a sequel to ‘The Belman of London’ which was likewise first
     printed in 1608. Apparently the eighth edition, but it is not
     possible to trace all previous ones.

     BM 461.

DES PERIERS, BONAVENTURE.

The Mirrour of Mirth, and pleasant Conceits: containing, Many proper and pleasaunt inuentions,
for the recreation and delight of many, and to the hurt and hinderance of none. Framed in French
by that Worshipfull and learned Gentleman Bonaduentura de Periers, Groom to the right excellent
and vertuous Princesse, the Queen of Nauara: And Englished by R. D. At London, Printed by Roger
Warde: dwelling a litle aboue Holburne Conduit, at the Signe of the Talbot. 1583.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 33. 4.

     Collation: A²B-N⁴O², folios numbered. Address to the reader,
     signed T. D. (sic). Table of contents at end. Supposed unique.

     Sinker 647.

DEVEREUX, ROBERT, Earl of Essex.

A Declaration of the Practises and Treasons attempted and committed by Robert late Earle of
Essex.... 1601. See BACON, Francis.

DOBSON.

Dobsons Drie Bobbes: Sonne and Heire to Skoggin. London Printed by Valentine Simmes 1607.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5⅞). Q. 8. 2.

     Collation: A-O⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 and O 4 (? blank). Address
     to the reader. Table of contents. ‘This Dobson, it appears from a
     note in Harl. MS. 5910, was the adopted son of Sir Thomas Pentley,
     a priest in Queen Mary’s days.’ (Haz. H. 300.)

DONDI DALL’OROLOGIO, GIUSEPPE.

L’Inganno dialogo di M. Gioseppe Horologgi. Con priuilegio. In Vinegia appresso Gabriele Giolito
de’ Ferrari. M D LXII.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 5.

     Collation: *⁸A-N⁸, paged. Epistle dedicatory from the author to
     the ‘Academici Olimpici di Vicenza’, dated, Venice, Jan. 12, 1562.
     Alphabetical table. At the end, an epistle dated from Venice,
     headed ‘Al Mag. S.N.’

DONNE, JOHN.

Iuuenilia: or certain Paradoxes, and Problems, written by I. Donne. London, Printed by E. P.
for Henry Seyle, and are to be sold at the signe of the Tygers head, in Saint Pauls Church-yard,
Anno Dom. 1633.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 20. 2.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. A 1 blank. Table of Paradoxes on verso
     of Title. Eleven Paradoxes. License for Paradoxes signed by Henry
     Herbert and dated Oct. 25, 1632. Half-title to Problems, Table on
     verso. Ten Problems.

     BM 490.

Poems, By J. D. With Elegies on the Authors Death. London. Printed by M. F. for Iohn Marriot,
and are to be sold at his shop in St Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet-street. 1633.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 20. 1.

     Collation: A⁴; A²B-3F⁴, paged. 3F 4 blank. Wanting first leaf (?
     blank). Epistle. Printer’s address to the reader. Verses signed Jo.
     Mar. (= John Marriot). Poems. Satires. Letters. Elegies upon the
     Author, Dr Donne. This is the first collected edition of his poems.
     The prose ‘Iuvenilia’ of the same year forms a supplement.

     BM 490.

DOUGLAS, GAWIN.

The .xiii. Bukes of Eneados.... 1553. See VERGILIUS MARO, Publius.

DRAYTON, MICHAEL.

The Battaile of Agincourt. Fought by Henry the fift of that name, King of England, against
the whole power of the French: vnder the Raigne of their Charles the sixt, Anno Dom. 1415.
The Miseries of Queene Margarite, the infortunate Wife, of that most infortunate King Henry
the sixt. Nimphidia, the Court of Fayrie. The Quest of Cinthia. The Shepheards Sirena. The
Moone-Calfe. Elegies vpon sundry occasions. By Michaell Drayton Esquire. London, Printed for
William Lee, at the Turkes Head in Fleete-Streete, next to the Miter and Phœnix. 1627.

   F^o. (9¾ × 5⅞). I. 2.

     Collation: portrait prefixed, A⁴a²B⁶C-2E⁴, paged. Wanting A⁴
     containing John Reynolds’ verses, and 2E 4 (? blank). Engraved
     portrait signed Wil Hole, with Latin verses subscribed, facing
     title. The plate had already been used in the ‘Poems’ of 1619.
     Dedication to the Gentlemen of Great Britain, signed. Commendatory
     verses by J. Vaughan, J. Reynolds, and Ben Jonson. First edition.

     BM 498.

Englan¦ds¦ Heroic¦all¦ Epistles. Newly Correcte¦d.¦ With Idea. By Michaell Drayton. At London,
Printed by I. R. for N. L. and are to be sold at his shop in Fleetstreete, neere Saint Dunstones
Church. 1602.

   8^o. (5⅞ × 4). Z. 2.

     Collation: A⁴B-Q⁸, unpaged. Address to the reader, signed M.D.
     Commendatory verses signed: E. Sc. Gent., Thomas Hassell, William
     Alexander. The ‘Epistles’ are divided into groups to which are
     prefixed dedicatory epistles to Lucy Countess of Bedford, Lady Anne
     Harington, Sir Walter Acton, Edward Earl of Bedford, Iames Huish,
     Elizabeth Tanfelde, Sir Thomas Munson, Sir Henry Goodere, Henry
     Lucas, and Lady Frauncis Goodere, each signed. ‘Idea’ begins on O
     7^V. The first sonnet should belong to the ‘Epistles’, of which
     it contains a list, the second and third are prefatory, addressed
     to the reader. The first edition appeared in 1597; the present is
     the fifth. ‘Idea’ which had appeared separately was first added to
     the third edition, 1599.

     BM 499.

Mortimeriados. The lamentable ciuell warres of Edward the second and the Barrons. At London,
Printed by I. R. for Mathew Lownes, and are to bee solde at his shop in S. Dunstons Churchyard.
1596.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 18. 3.

     Collation: A-S⁴T², unpaged. Wanting A 4 (? blank as in BM copy).
     Dedicatory verses to Lucie Countess of Bedford, signed Michaell
     Drayton. Verses to the same, signed E. B. This is the original form
     of ‘The Barons’ Wars’ (1603). There was another issue of this
     edition, differing in the titlepage alone, which has Humfry Lownes
     as bookseller and is without date.

     Sinker 472. BM 498.

Poems: by Michael Drayton esquire, Newly Corrected by the Author. London Printed by W. Stansby
for Iohn Smethwicke, and are to bee sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstanes Church-yard, vnder
the Diall. 1613.

   8^o. (6½ × 4). Y. 2.

     Collation: A⁴B-2I⁸, paged in part. Wanting 2I 7 and 8 (? blank).
     ‘The Arguments’ (i.e. list of contents). Dedicatory verses to Sir
     Walter Aston, signed. Address to the reader. Commendatory verses
     signed John Beaumont and Thomas Greene. ‘The Barons Warres’, paged.
     ‘Englands Heroical Epistles’ with fresh pagination as in the
     separate edition of 1602, with addition of one epistle dedicatory
     to Sir John Swinerton. Catalogue sonnet to the ‘Epistles’. Two
     sonnets to the reader, ‘Idea’ and other sonnets, and ‘Legends’,
     unpaged. Fourth edition (vide infra).

     BM 498.

Poems: by Michael Drayton Esquire. Viz. The Barons Warres, Englands Heroicall Epistles, Idea,
Odes, The Legends Of Robert, Duke of Normandie, Matilda, Pierce Gaveston, And, Great Cromwell,
The Owle, Pastorals, Contayning Eglogues, With the Man in the Moone. London, Printed by W.
Stansby for Iohn Smethwicke, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstanes Church-yard
in Fleet-streete vnder the Diall.

   F^o. (10¼ × 6⅜). H. 2.

     Collation: A-3Q⁴, paged. Engraved portrait signed Wil. Hole on
     verso of printed title. Engraved titlepage (unsigned) ‘Poems by
     Michael Drayton Esquyer. Collected into one Volume. ‘The Barons’ Wars’ with
     head-title. ‘England’s Heroical Epistles’, ‘Idea’, ‘Odes’,
     ‘Legends’, ‘The Owle’, and ‘Pastorals’ have each a separate
     titlepage with imprint ‘London, Printed for Iohn Smethwicke. 1619.’
     There are apparently no less than five collections entitled ‘Poems’
     previous to the present, the earliest being that of 1605, all of
     which are substantially the same, while the present one is enlarged
     by the addition of the poems which originally appeared in the
     ‘Poemes Lyrick and pastorall’ of about 1606. Some copies of the
     present edition (BM, G. 11573) differ from the above in reading in
     the imprint to the general titlepage ‘Fleetstreete. 1620.’. The
     separate titlepages however are dated 1619.

     BM 498. With a Table added, for direction
to those occurrences of Story and Antiquitie, whereunto the Course of
the Volume easily leades not. Esq. [sic] London. Printed by H. L. for
Mathew Lownes: I. Browne: I. Helme, and I. Busbie. 1613.

   F^o. (11⅜ × 7⅛). E. 5.

    Collation: 4 leaves unsigned, 2 leaves unsigned,
    A⁴[heart]⁴B-2C⁶2D², paged, with eighteen double-page engraved
    maps inserted. Wanting first leaf (? blank) and sig. A. Printed
    title misplaced after the two unsigned leaves. First leaf blank
    (wanting), second leaf verses ‘Vpon the Frontispice’ on verso, third
    leaf engraved titlepage signed W. Hole, fourth leaf printed
    titlepage. The verses and engraved titlepage certainly form one
    sheet and the printed titlepage probably occupies the second leaf of
    an outer sheet. The two unsigned leaves which follow, and which
    certainly form one sheet, contain Epistle dedicatory to Prince
    Henry, signed, verses on the prince, and a very fine engraved
    portrait of him at pike exercise, signed William Hole. The quire A
    (wanting) contains address to the reader and ‘To my Friends, the
    Cambro-Britans’, also ‘From the Author of the Illustrations’ (i.e.
    J. Seldon). Then follow an alphabetical Table, and the eighteen
    songs, each with engraved map and Seldon’s notes. This is the first
    edition but there was an earlier undated issue without printed
    titlepage or sigs. A and ❧, and with the portrait of the prince
    in an earlier state, i.e. without the ‘Henricus Princeps’ on the
    plate. The volume was re-issued with a second part in 1622.

     BM 499.

DRUMMOND, WILLIAM.

Poems: By William Drummond, of Hawthorne-denne. The second Impression. Edinburgh, Printed by
Andro Hart. 1616.

   4^o. (8 × 6), P. 2. 2.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A-Q⁴, unpaged. Wanting Q 4
     (? blank). Commendatory verses signed ‘Parthenius’ (A 2), ‘S^r W.
     Alexander’ (K1^v), ‘D. Murray’ (M 3). No earlier edition is known,
     but there is another issue of this one with a different titlepage
     (same imprint) on which only the author’s initials appear.

     BM 500.

The most elegant, and elabourate Poems Of that Great Court-wit, M^r William Drummond. Whose
Labours, both in Verse and Prose, being heretofore so precious to Prince Henry, and to K. Charles,
Shall live and flourish in all Ages whiles there are men to read them, or Art & Judgment to
approve them.

   Horat. Carm. Lib. 1.
   --Multaq; pars mei
   Vitabit Libitinam--

London, Printed for William Rands Bookseller, at his House over against the Beare Taverne in
Fleetstreet, 1659.

   8^o. (6⅜ × 4⅛). X. 3.

     Collation: A-O⁴, paged. Engraved portrait by R. Gaywood. The
     titlepage is a cancel pasted over the original one printed by W. H.
     for the Company of Stationers in 1656. Address to the reader signed
     E. P. Commendatory verses signed: Edw: Phillips, D. F. (Lat.), (one
     copy in Lat. unsigned), Iohn Spotswood, Mary Oxlie of Morpet.
     ‘Tears on the Death of Moeliades’, ‘The Wandering Muses’ and
     ‘Speeches to the high and excellent Prince, Charles, ... Delivered
     from the Pageants the 15^th of June, 1633’, have each a separate
     titlepage with the imprint ‘London, Printed in the Yeare, 1656.’
     The ‘Poems’ were first published in 1616 and the present edition
     appears to be the third; both the former ones however had several
     issues.

DU BARTAS, GUILLAUME DE SALUSTE. With Additions. London, Printed by Robert Young, and are to
bee sold by William Hope, at the signe of the Unicorne in Cornehill, 1641.

   F^o. (13¼ × 9⅛). A. 1.

     Collation: 3 leaves unsigned, A⁶B⁸C-3M⁶, paged. Engraved
     portrait of Sylvester signed Corn: v. Dalen facing engraved
     titlepage signed R. Elstracke, the inscription on which is altered
     from the previous edition of 1633. The printed titlepage follows.
     Anagram on James Stuart. French and Italian verses to James signed
     Josua Sylvester and J. S. respectively. ‘Corona Dedicatoria’. Table
     of contents. Woodcut portrait of Du Bartas with verses in French
     and English. Verses on Sylvester signed John Vicars. Printer’s
     address to the reader. Memorial to Sidney. Verses ‘Indignis’ and
     ‘Optimis’. Commendatory verses in Latin signed: Jo. Bo. Miles, Car.
     Fitz-Geofridus Lati-Portensis, (2 copies unsigned), E. L. Oxon., G.
     B. Cantabrig.; in English signed: Ben Jonson, John Davies of
     Hereford, Jos. Hall, Samuel Daniel, G. Gay-wood; also Jo. Mauldeus
     Germanus (Lat.), Si. Ca. Gen. (Lat.), E. G., R. H., R. R., R. N.
     Gent, and R. N. Various parts have separate titlepages, and more
     dedicatory verses, etc. At sig. 2G1 begins ‘A Briefe Index,
     explaining most of the hardest words’, preceding the ‘History of
     Judith’. On I 4^v is a woodcut of Eden, and after 3H 1 is inserted
     a folding plate facing the titlepage of the ‘Posthumi’. Mr Hazlitt
     (H. 171) supposes that the first edition appeared in 1593, but only
     separate portions are known of this, or of the 1598-99 edition. The
     earliest of which complete copies survive is that of 1605-7. The
     present is the last and most complete edition and contains some of
     Sylvester’s original poems.

EDWARD III, King of England.

The Raigne of King Edward the third: As it hath bin sundrie times plaied about the Citie of
London. London, Printed for Cuthbert Burby. 1596.

   4^o. (6½ × 4⅝). W. 5. 1.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). First edition.

     Sinker 794. BM 518.

The Raigne of King Edward the third. As it hath bene sundry times played about the Citie of
London. Imprinted at London by Simon Stafford, for Cuthbert Burby: And are to be sold at his
shop neere the Royall Exchange. 1599.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 4¾). T. 7. 2.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged. Second edition.

     Sinker 816. BM 518.

EDWARDS, RICHARD.

The Paradice of Dainty Deuises. Containing sundry pithie precepts, learned Counsailes and excellent
Inuentions: right pleasant and profitable for all estates Deuised and written for the most
parte by M. Edwardes, sometime of her Maiesties Chappell: the rest by sundry learned Gentlemen
both of Honor and Worship, whose names heer-after followe. Whereunto is added sundry new Inuentions,
very pleasant and delightfull. At London Printed by Edward Allde for Edward White dwelling
at the little North doore of Saint Paules Church, at the signe of the Gunne. Anno. 1596.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 4¾). S. 8. 1.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Wanting L 4 containing end of text and
     colophon. On the verso of the titlepage are ‘The names of those who
     wrote these devices’: Saint Bernard, E[dward Vere, Earl of]
     O[xford], Lord Vaux the Elder, W. Hunnis, Iasper Haywood, F.
     Kindlemarshe, D. Sande, M. Ylope. The collection went through many
     editions; this is apparently the seventh, the first having appeared
     in 1576.

     Sinker 660. BM 519.

EDWARDS, THOMAS.

The Canons of Criticism, and Glossary; The Trial of the Letter Τ, alias Y, and Sonnets. By
Thomas Edwards, Esq; London: Printed for C. Bathurst, opposite St. Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-street.
M.DCC.LVIII.

   8^o. (8 × 5¼). P. 7.

     Titlepage and advertisement on two leaves prefixed after the
     author’s death in 1757. The original titlepage ‘By the other
     Gentleman of Lincoln’s-Inn.... The Sixth Edition, with Additions’
     follows, with the same date and imprint. First published as ‘A
     Supplement to Mr. Warburton’s Edition of Shakspeare’ in 1747.

ELDER, JOHN.

Historia Maioris Britanniæ, tam Anglię [quam] Scotię, per Ioannẽ Maiorem, nomine quidem Scotum,
professione autem Theologum, c veterum monumentis concinnata. Vęnundatur Iodoco Badio Ascensio.
[Colophon] Ex officina Ascensiana ad Idus Aprilis. MDXXI.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅜). Q. 5. 2.

     Collation: A²a-p⁸q-s⁶t⁸2A⁴ (2A 1-2 misprinted AA iii-iiii,
     3-4 unsigned) A⁶ (A 1-4 misprinted A iii-vi, 5-6 unsigned) 2
     leaves unsigned; folios numbered. Woodcut of the arms of Scotland
     and dedicatory verses from the printer to James V on verso of
     title. Epistle dedicatory to James from the author, subscribed ‘E
     Gynmasio Montisacuti apud Parrhisios frugi & non ignobili’.
     Alphabetical tables at end, after colophon. The sheets containing
     the irregular signatures at the end are wanting in all three copies
     at the BM. Ruled throughout in red. This work is said to contain
     the earliest printed notice of Robin Hood.

ELYOT, Sir THOMAS.

The Castle of Health, Corrected, and in some places Augmented by the first Authour thereof,
Sir Thomas Elyot Knight. Now newlie pervsed, amended, and corrected, this present yeare, 1610.
London, Printed for the Company of Stationers, 1610.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 32. 3.

     Collation: ¶⁴A-S⁴, paged. ‘The Proheme of Sir Thomas Eliot
     Knight, into his Booke.’ Alphabetical table. The first edition
     appeared in 1539; this appears to be the seventh.

The Image of Gouernance compiled of the Actes and Sentences notable, of the moste noble Emperour
Alexander Seuerus, late translated out of Greke into Englyshe, by syr Thomas Eliot knight,
in the fauour of Nobylitie. Anno .M. D. XLI. [Colophon] Londini in Officina Thomæ Bertheleti
typis impress. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum. Anno .M. D. XL.

   =B. L.= 4^o (7 × 5⅛). S. 7. 2.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: a-b⁴A-2C⁴, folios
     numbered. Preface. Table of contents. Fine woodcut of the arms of
     Sir Thomas Elyot on verso of title, and one of Berthelet’s
     ‘Lucrece’ device on b4^v. The work purports to be translated out of
     the Greek of one Eucolpius, presumably a fictitious authority.
     First edition.

     Sinker 65. BM 600.

ERASMUS, DESIDERIUS.

The praise of Folie. Moriæ Encomium a booke made in latyne by that great clerke Erasmus Roterodame.
Englisshed by sir Thomas Chaloner knight. Anno .M.D.XLIX. [Colophon] Imprinted at London in
Fletestrete in the House of Thomas Berthelet. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum. Anno .M.
D. LXIX.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 16.

     Title within ornamental border, at the foot of which are printed
     the initials ‘T. P.’ (misprint for T. B. i.e. Thomas Berthelet,
     see ‘A necessary doctrine’ etc. by T. Berthelet, 1543, T. C. C.
     v1^d. 3. 7.). The date in the colophon is likewise a misprint for
     1549 as in title. Collation: A⁴; A-T⁴, unpaged. Translator’s
     address to the reader. At the beginning is inserted a leaf of MS.
     in a 17th century hand containing biographical notes concerning Sir
     Thomas Chaloner. There is also some writing in an early hand on the
     verso of A 4 (preliminary sheet), but it has been pasted over and
     one blank leaf inserted before the next sheet.

     Sinker 69. BM 596.

Prouerbes or Adagies, gathered oute of the Chiliades of Erasmus by Rycharde Tauerner. With
newe addicions as well of La-of ue rbes [sic] as Englyshe. An. M. D. LII. Cum priuilegio ad
imprimendum solum. Anno. M. D. LII.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¼ × 3⅜). *. 5.

     Title within woodcut border with the initials N. H. printed in a
     compartment at the foot. Collation: A-K⁸, folios numbered. ‘The
     Prologue of the Author’. A collection of Latin quotations with
     translations and explanations in English. At the end an
     alphabetical table. The first edition appeared in 1539, the present
     is the second.

     Sinker 110. BM 593.

¦Seuen Dialogues both pithie and profitable.

        { 1 Is of the right vse of things indifferent.
        { 2 Sheweth what comfort Poperie affordeth in time of daunger.
   The  { 3 Is betweene a good Woman and a Shrew.
        { 4 Is of the conversion of a Harlot.
        { 5 Is of putting forth Children to Nurse.
        { 6 Is of a Popish Pilgrimage.
        { 7 Is of a Popish Funerall.

By W. B. London. Printed for Nicholas Ling, and are to bee sold at his shop in Saint Dunstans
Church-yard in Fleet-streete. 1606.¦

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). T. 4. 2.

     Collation. A⁴a²B-V⁴, unpaged. Wanting A1 (title) and V 4 (?
     blank). Epistle dedicatory to the ‘Maior, Sheriffes and Aldermen’
     of Norwich, signed by the translator, William Burton, and dated
     ‘Reading, in Barkeshire, 1606.’ Address to the reader, signed by
     the same. Printer’s note to the reader. The seven dialogues
     translated from the Latin ‘Colloquia’ of Erasmus.

     BM 594.

EUNAPIUS.

The Lyues, Of Philosophers and Oratours: Written in Greeke, by Eunapius, of the Cittie of Sardeis
in Lydia. Brought into light, Translated into Latine, and Dedicated to the Queenes most excellent
Maiestie, our moste gracious Princesse and Soueraigne, Queene Elizabeth. By the great learned
man, Hadrianus Iunius Hornanus. 1568. And now set foorth in English, at his request: and Dedicated
to the right Honourable, the Lord Chauncellour of England. 1579. Wherein may be seene, The
deepe knowledge of Philosophie. The wonderfull workes of secrete Artes. The maruelous effects
of perfight eloquence. The singuler giftes of naturall qualities. The enuie of the ambitious,
against the learned. The daingerous dayes that then befell for faythe. The one of Christians,
the other of Infidels. Imprinted at London by Richard Iohnes, and are to be solde at his shop
ouer against S. Sepulchres Church without Newgate. The.xx. daye of May.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 1. 2.

     Collation: A⁴A-N⁴, folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to Sir
     Thomas Bromley, signed by the translator: H. I. H. Epistle to Queen
     Elizabeth, signed: Hadrianus Iunius Hornanus, the original editor
     and Latin translator, and dated Harlem, March 1, 1568. Acrostic
     verses to the Queen. Hadrianus’ address to the reader. Verses by
     ‘Gerarde Phalcepurgie of Nimega’. Life of Eunapius. At the end
     another address to the reader by Hadrianus, followed by
     alphabetical table and list of errata.

     Sinker 467. BM 601.

FABYAN, ROBERT.

The Chronicle of Fabyan, whiche he hym selfe nameth the concordaunce of historyes, nowe newely
printed, & in many places corrected, as to the dylygent reader it may apere. 1542. Cum priuilegio
ad imprimendum solum. Printed by Iohn Reynes, dwellynge at the sygne of saynte George in Pauls
churcheyarde.

   =B. L.= F^o. (10⅞ × 7⅜). F. 16.

     Title within woodcut border, with initials W. R. (i.e. William
     Rastel). Collation: A⁶B⁴a-x⁶y⁸z⁶A-E⁶*⁶2a-2z⁶3A-3S⁶,
     paged. Title mounted. * 1 is inserted the wrong way round. Table of
     contents. Parts I-VII. ‘Lenuoye’ in verse. At sig. E 6 occurs a
     separate titlepage ‘The secōde volume of Fabyans cronycle,
     conteynynge the cronycles of England & of Fraunce from the
     begynnyng of the reygne of Kynge Richarde the fyrste, vntyll the
     xxxii. yere of the reygne of oure moste redoubted soueraygne lorde
     kyng Henry the viii.’, without imprint, within the same border.
     Table of contents. ‘Prologue’. Lists of the Wards of London and the
     parish churches within and without the city. The whole of vol. ii,
     which has fresh pagination, is headed ‘The seuenth part’. The
     collation given above follows that in Dr Sinker’s catalogue, but
     there is strong reason to suppose that we should assume that E 6
     was blank and that vol. ii began with a single sheet, unsigned, the
     first leaf being blank and the second containing the titlepage to
     that volume. The first edition appeared anonymously in 1516. In
     some copies of the present edition, the third, William Bonham is
     given as the printer’s name.

     Sinker 97. BM 608 (Bonham).

FAIRE EM.

A Pleasant Comedie Of Faire Em, The Millers Daughter of Manchester: With the loue of William
the Conqueror. As it was sundty [sic] times publiquely acted in the Honourable Citie of London,
by the right Honourable the Lord Strange his Seruants. London, Printed for Iohn Wright, and
are to be sold at his shop at the signe of the Bible in Guilt-spur street without New-gate. 1631.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅜). R. 20. 3.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Second edition,
     the first having appeared undated a good many years earlier.

     BM 527.

FAIRFAX, EDWARD.

Godfrey of Bulloigne, or The Recouerie of Ierusalem.... 1600. See TASSO, Torquato.

FENTON, GEOFFREY.

Certain Tragicall Discourses.... 1567. See BANDELLO, Matteo.

FLETCHER, JOHN.

See BEAUMONT, Francis, and FLETCHER, John.

FLETCHER, PHINEAS.

¦Locustæ, vel Pietas Iesuitica. Per Phineam Fletcher Collegii Regalis Cantabrigiæ. Apud Thomam
& Ioannem Bucke, celeberrimæ Academiæ Typographos. Ann. Dom. MDCXXVII.¦

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 11. 2.

     Collation: ¶⁴A-M⁴N², paged. Wanting sheet ¶ of which the first
     leaf is blank, the second contains the titlepage and the rest the
     preliminary matter. Epistle dedicatory in Latin to Sir Roger
     Townshend, signed. Commendatory Latin verses signed S. Collins.
     ‘Locustæ’ in Latin hexameters. English version with separate
     titlepage at sig. D 2. ‘The Locusts, or Apollyonists. By Phineas
     Fletcher of Kings Colledge in Cambridge. Printed by Thomas Bucke
     and Iohn Bucke, Printers to the Vniversitie of Cambridge. 1627.’
     Epistle dedicatory to Lady Townshend, signed P. F. Commendatory
     verses signed H. M. In 1902 Mr B. Dobell had a MS. of the Latin
     portion containing an unpublished dedication to Prince Henry. This
     version, which presented variations from the printed text, must
     therefore have been written before Nov. 1612.

     BM 636.

FLORIO, JOHN.

The Essayes ... of Lord Michael De Montaigne.... 1632. See MONTAIGNE, Michel de.

A Worlde of Wordes, Or Most copious, and exact Dictionarie in Italian and English, collected
by Iohn Florio. Printed at London, by Arnold Hatfield for Edw. Blount. 1598. [Colophon] Imprinted
at London by Arnold Hatfield, for Edward Blunt: and are to be sold at his shop ouer against
the great North dore of Paules Church. 1598.

   F^o. (10 × 7⅜). H. 3.

     Title within ornamental border with initials C T. Collation:
     a⁶b⁴A-2P⁶2Q⁴, paged. Wanting a 1 (blank save for sig.) and 2Q
     4 (? blank). The original leaf S 2 has been cut out and another,
     presumably a cancel, placed in loose. Three columns on a page. Address to the
     reader, signed. Dedicatory sonnets to the same persons as the
     epistle, each subscribed ‘Il Candido’. Commendatory verses in
     English and Latin signed B. B. List of texts read for the
     compilation of the work. ‘Il Candido’ has been identified, on the
     authority of an old MS. note, with Matthew Gwinne, ‘gwin’ being the
     Welsh for white. ‘B. B.’ is supposed to have been Barnabe Barnes.
     First edition.

     Sinker 665. BM 637.

FULWELL, ULPIAN.

The first part of the eight liberall science: Entituled, Ars adulandi, the art of Flattery,
with the confutation thereof, both very pleasant and profitable, deuised and compiled by Vlpian
Fulwell.

   His diebus non peractis,
   Nulla fides est in pactis.
                               Videto.

   Mel in ore, verba lactis
   Fel in corde fraus in factis
                                 Caveto.

   Who reads a booke rashly,
     at randome doth runne,
   He goes on his arant,
     yet leaues it vndone.

Imprinted at London, by William Hoskins, and are to be solde at his shop ioyning to the midle
Temple gate, within Temple Barre. 1576.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 6. 2.

     Collation: ¶⁴A²B-M⁴N², folios numbered. ‘A dialogue betwene the
     Author and his Muse, as touching the dedication of this booke’,
     giving in anagram the name ‘Mildred Burgley’. Epistle dedicatory to
     Lady Burleigh (wife of the Lord Treasurer), signed. Address to the
     reader. The printer to the reader, in verse. ‘A description of the
     seuen liberall sciences, into whose company the eight hath intruded
     her selfe’ in verse. Text in eight dialogues. This is the first
     edition and is supposed to be unique. Another edition, 1579, is in
     the Bodleian, and a third (1580?) in the British Museum.

     Sinker 539.

GARLAND.

The Golden Garland of Princely Delight; Wherein is contained the History of many of the Kings,
Queens, Princes, Lords, Ladies, Knights, and Gentlewomen of this Kingdom. Being most pleasant
Songs and Sonnets, to sundry New Tunes much in request. In Two Parts. The Thirteenth Edition,
with Additions, Corrected and Amended. Licensed according to Order. Printed for J. Deacon at
the Angel in Giltspur-street without Newgate, 1690.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (6¼ × 3¾). Y. 3. 1.

     Title partly within woodcut border. Collation: A-G⁸, unpaged.
     Table to the two parts. The volume is a collection of ballads etc.,
     Part 1 purporting to be of an historical nature, Part 2 containing
     songs and imaginary subjects. At the end is a publisher’s
     advertisement of books, headed ‘Books Printed for, and sold by J.
     Deacon at the Angel in Gilt-spur-street, without Newgate; where
     Country Chapmen may be furnished with all sorts of Histories, &c.
     small Books and Ballads.’

GASCOIGNE, GEORGE.

The Whole woorkes of George Gascoigne Esquyre: Newlye compyled into one Volume, That is to
say: His Flowers, Hearbes, Weedes, the Fruites of warre, the Comedie called Supposes, the Tragedie
of Iocasta, the Steele glasse, the Complaint of Phylomene, the storie of Fernando Ieronimi,
and the pleasure at Kenelworth Castle. London Imprinted by Abell Ieffes, dwelling in the Fore
Streete, without Creeplegate, neere vnto Grubstreete. 1587.

   =B. L.= in part. 4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). S. 2.

    Collation: ¶-4¶⁴5¶²a-k⁴B⁴C-P⁸Q⁴S-Y⁸[bullet]⁴; S⁴V-Y⁸;
    A-B⁸; A-C⁸(D)²D², paged in part, folios numbered in part.
    Wanting 2¶4 and 5¶2 (? blank). Addresses, ‘To the reverende
    Deuines’, ‘To all young Gentlemen’ dated, ‘Waltamstowe in the
    Forest’ Feb. 2, 1575, and ‘To the Readers generally’. Commendatory
    verses from T. B., E. C., M. C., R. S., T. Ch., G. W., P. B., A. W.,
    I. B., I. D., Richard Smith, M. A. Perugino (Italian prose), A. de
    B. (Fr.), and in Latin from H. M., B. C., K. D. (2 copies), W. P.,
    G. H., E. H. The order of the works is as follows: ‘Flowers’
    including ‘Dan Bartholomew of Barth’ and ‘The Fruits of war’;
    ‘Herbes’ including the plays ‘Supposes’ and ‘Jocasta’; ‘Weeds’
    including ‘Ferdinando Jeronimi’; ‘The Steel Glass’ including ‘The
    Complaint of Philomene’; ‘The Princely Pleasures at Kenelworth
    Castle’, and ‘Certain notes of Instruction concerning the making of
    verse or rime in English’. Of these the only one that has a regular
    titlepage is ‘The Steel Glass’, ‘Imprinted Ano. 1587.’ The
    ‘Complaint’ which follows bears the date 1576 without imprint. This
    is the third edition, the first being undated and the second having
    appeared in 1575. Some copies have a different titlepage reading
    ‘The pleasauntest workes’ etc.

     Sinker 670. BM 678.

GELLI, GIOVANNI BATTISTA.

The Fearefull Fansies of the Florentine Cooper. Written in Tuscane, By Iohn Baptista Gelli,
one of the free Studie of Florence. And for recreation translated into English by W. Barker.
Pensoso d’ altrui. Seene & allowed according to the order appointed. At London Printed by Tho.
Purfoot, for the Companie of Stacioners. 1599.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¼ × 3⅝). *. 8. 1.

     Collation: A-R⁸, folios numbered. Address to the reader. The
     head-title runs ‘The Reasoning of Iust the Florentine Cooper and
     his Soule. Gathered by his Nephew Sir Byndo.’ The first edition
     appeared in 1568, the present appears to be the second.

     Sinker 375. BM 683.

GEOFFREY of Monmouth.

Britannię vtriusqȝ Regũ Et Principium Origo & gesta insignia ab Galfrido Monemutensi ex antiquissimis
Britannici sermonis monumentis in latinum traducta: & ab Ascensio rursus maiore accuratione
impressa. Vęnundantur in eiusdem œdibus. [Colophon] Ex œdibus nostris iterũ Ad Idus Septẽb.
Anni .MDXVII.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 5. 1.

     Collation: 2A⁴A-M⁸N⁶; folios numbered. N 6 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory from the editor Ivo Cavellatus to Hervius
     Kaerquiffinennus dated, ‘Ex collegio nostro Corisopitensi ad Idus
     Iulias anni salutiferi. M.D.VIII.’ Commendatory verses, etc.
     Armorial woodcut on 2A 4^v. A note to the reader at the end is
     headed ‘Io. Badius Ascensius Lectori Sa.’ Ruled in red throughout.
     The first edition appeared in 1508.

GEORGE, Saint.

The Life and Death of the Famous Champion of England, S^t. George. [Woodcut.] Printed for F.
Coles, T. Vere, J. Wright, and J. Clarke.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5⅜ × 3⅜). Y. 3. 2.

     Collation: A⁸B⁴, unpaged. Half-title ‘S^t. George’, with woodcut
     of St. George and the Dragon as on title. ‘The Life and Death’ in
     prose. ‘The Worthy Deeds of St. George of England, and how he
     married the Kings Daughter of Ægypt, whom he delivered from death.
     The Tune is, Queen Dido,’ in verse, with woodcut of the princess
     and the dragon and also the woodcut of the titlepage repeated. The
     recto and verso of the last leaf are also occupied by woodcuts,
     which however do not belong to the story. Hazlitt dates the volume
     circa 1670 (H. 225).

GILPIN, GEORGE.

¦The Bee Hiue of the Romish Church.... 1623.¦ See MARNIX, Philip van.

GIRALDI, GIOVANNI BATTISTA, (Cintio).

De gli Hecatommithi di M. Giouanbattista Gyraldi Cinthio nobile ferrarese. Parte prima. [La
seconda Parte de gli Hecatommithi di M. Giouanbattista Giraldi Cinthio nobile ferarese Nella
quale ei contengono tre Dialoghi della uita ciuile.] Nel Monte Regale Appresso Lionardo Torrentino
M D LXV.

   2 vols. 8^o. (6⅜ × 4⅛). U. 6-7.

     For the elaborate collation see Brunet (1861), vol. 11, col. 1607
     etc. The present copy is perfect except for blanks. The ‘Capitolo’
     in vol. 11. (sig. 3H) is of the long form and runs to 11 leaves
     (Brunet only mentions 10). First edition.

GOFFE, THOMAS.

The Careles Shepherdess. Written by T. G. Mr. of Arts. Pastorum Tittere pingues Pascere oportet
oves, deductum ducere Carmen. With an Alphabeticall Catologue of all such Plays that ever were
Printed. London, Printed for Richard Rogers and William Ley, and are to be sould at Pauls Chaine
nere Doctors commons, 1656.

   4^o. (7¾ × 5½). Q. 10. 3.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-K⁴L², 3 leaves unsigned, paged.
     Argument. Præludium in Salisbury Court. Prologue. Prologue at
     Whitehall. Personae. Epilogue at end. The Catalogue of plays
     occupies the three unsigned leaves at the end. First ascribed to
     Goffe by Kirkman in 1661. The Præludium must have been written
     after the opening of Salisbury Court in 1629 and before the
     author’s death on July 27, of that year.

GOLDING, ARTHUR.

The excellent and pleasant worke of Iulius Solinus Polyhistor.... 1587. See SOLINUS, Julius.

The worke of Pomponius Mela.... 1585. See MELA, Pomponius.

GOOGE, BARNABE.

The Zodiake of Life.... 1565. See MANZOLLI, Pietro Angelo.

Eglogs Epytaphes, and Sonettes. Newly written by Barnabe Googe: 1563. 15. March. Imprynted
at London, by Thomas Colwell, for Raffe Newbery, dwelyng in Fleetstrete a litle aboue the Conduit
in the late shop of Thomas Bartelet. [Colophon] ¦Imprinted at London in S. Brydes Churchyarde,
by Thomas Colwell, for Raufe Newbery. And are to be sold at his shop in Fleetestrete, a lytle
aboue the Conduit. 1563. 15. Die Mensis March.¦

   =B. L.= 8^o. (4⅞ × 3½). *. 19. 2.

     Collation: A⁸B⁴; A-C⁸D⁴E-K⁸, unpaged. Wanting B 4 in
     preliminary sheets (? blank), K 7 containing errata and colophon,
     and K 8 (? blank). Commendatory verses headed (probably by)
     ‘Alexander Nevyll’. Woodcut of a coat of arms subscribed ‘B.
     Googe’. Epistle dedicatory to William Lovelace, signed. Woodcut of
     Daphnes and Amintas. Address to the reader by L. Blundeston, dated
     May 27, 1562. Verse ‘Preface’ by the same. Errata at the end, below
     colophon. A new edition appears to have been in preparation in 1587
     (Haz. I. 187), but is not known. For variations between the present
     copy and that in the possession of Mr Huth, see Prof. Arber’s
     reprint.

     Sinker 358.

GOULART, SIMON.

Admirable and memorable Histories containing the wonders of our time. Collected into French
out of the best Authors. By I. Goulart. And out of French into English. By Ed. Grimeston. The
Contents of this booke followe the Authors aduertisement to the reader. Imprinted at London
by George Eld 1607.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 22.

     Collation: A⁴b²B-2S⁸₂T⁴, paged. 2T 4 blank. Wanting A 1 (?
     blank), A4, containing the author’s and printer’s addresses, Q 3
     and 6. Epistle dedicatory to Sir Walter Cope, signed Edw.
     Grimeston. Author’s ‘adwertisement’ to the reader and printer’s
     address to the same. Table of contents. On 2T 3^v is the note ‘The
     end of the first Volume’. Nothing further however was published.
     The original was the work of Simon not of Jean Goulart.

     BM 714.

GOWER, JOHN.

Io. Gower de confessione Amantis. Imprinted at London in Fletestrete by Thomas Berthelette
the .XII. daie of Marche. An M. D. LIIII. Cum priuilegio.

   F^o. (10¼ × 7⅜). H. 1.

     Title within ornamental border. Collation: *⁶A-2I⁶, folios
     numbered. 2I 6 blank. ‘Epigramma autoris’ in Latin. Epistle
     dedicatory to Henry VIII. Address to the reader. Table of contents.
     The first edition appeared in 1483, printed by Caxton; the second
     in 1532 by Berthelet; this is the third.

     Sinker 71. BM 714.

GRAFTON, RICHARD.

Graftons Abridgement of the Chronicles of Englande. Newly and diligently corrected, and finished
the last of October. 1570. The Contents whereof apeareth in the next Page of this lefe. Seene
and allowed, according to an order taken. In œdibus Richardi Tottyll. Cum Priuilegio.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¾ × 4). Z. 4.

    Collation: 8 leaves unsigned,
    ¶⁸2[bullet]-3[bullet]⁸4[bullet]⁴A-2B⁸2C⁴, folios
    numbered. Wanting 2C 4 (? blank). Table of contents. Calendar.
    Almanack for 24 years. Rules for terms, signs of the Zodiac,
    dog-days, divisions of the year, Vigils, number of days in the
    months. Epistle dedicatory to Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester.
    Grafton’s address to the reader. Alphabetical table of contents. At
    the end: list of Colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, Shires, Cities,
    and Boroughs of England, Wards of the City of London, Parish
    Churches in London, Out parishes adjoining to London, Principal
    Fairs, High-ways to London. The first edition of the ‘Abridgement,’
    appeared in 1562-3. This is the third and is quite distinct from
    that of 1570-1 (Haz. II. 255).

     The present copy differs from that in the BM in having no colophon.

     Sinker 251. BM 716.

GREENE, ROBERT.

The Pleasant History of Dorastus and Fawnia. [Woodcut.] Peasant [sic] for Age to avoid drowsy
thoughts, profitable for Youth to avoyd other wanton pastimes: and bring to both a desired
content. By Robert Green, Master of Arts in Cambridge. London, Printed for Ed. Blackmore, and
are to be sold at his shop at the sign of the Angell in Pauls Church-yard 1655.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 33. 2.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Verses, facing title, on verso of A 1.
     The first edition appeared in 1588, under the title of ‘Pandosto.
     The Triumph of Time.’ The present title was first used in the
     edition of 1636. This is probably the eleventh edition.

The pleasant History of Dorastus and Fawnia. 1664.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 5½). S. 28. 3.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Verses facing titlepage. With Licence at
     the end signed Roger L’estrange, and dated July 9, 1664. Twelfth
     edition (?).

Euphues his Censure to Philautus, Wherein is presented a Philosophical combat betweene Hector
and Achilles, discovering in foure discourses, interlaced with divers delightfull Tragedies,
The vertues necessary to be incident in every gentleman: had in question at the siege of Troy
betwixt sundrie Grecian and Trojan Lords: especially debated to discover the perfection of
a Souldier. Containing mirth to purg melancholly, wholsome precepts to profit manners, neither
unsavoury to youth for delight, nor offensive to age for scurrility. Ea habentur optima quæ
& jucunda, honesta’ & utilia. Robertus Greene, in Artibus Magister. London, Printed by Eliz.
All-de dwelling neere Christ-Church. 1634.

   =B. L.= 4^o (7 × 5). S. 36. 1.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory from Greene to
     Robert, Earl of Essex. Second edition, the first having appeared in
     1587.

     BM 726.

Greenes Groats Worth of Witte: bought with a million of Repentance: Describing the Folly of
Youth, the falshood of Make-shift Flatterers, the miserie of the negligent, and mischiefes
of deceyuing Curtezans. Published at his dying request: and, Newly corrected, and of many errors
purged. Fœlicem, fuisle [sic] infaustum. London, Printed by N. O. for Henry Bell, and are to
be sold at his shop in Bethlem at the signe of the Sun. 1621.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5). S. 36. 2.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 3 (? blank). Address ‘To
     Wittie Poets, or Poeticall Wittes’ signed I. H. At the end is a
     letter purporting to have been written by Greene to his wife and
     ‘found with this Booke after his death’, signed. Also ‘Greenes
     Epitaph’ in verse, signed I. H. The first edition appeared in 1592;
     it does not contain the address and verses by I. H. The present is
     the sixth.

     BM 727.

Greene’s Groatsworth of Wit, bought with A Million of Repentence. Felicem fuisse infaustum.
London, Printed for Henry and Moses Bell. 1637.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅝ × 5¾). Q. 14. 6.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Contents as
     before. Eighth edition.

     BM 727.

Greenes Ghost Haunting Cony-catchers: Wherin is set downe The Art of Humouring. The Art of
carrying Stones. Will. St. Lift. Ja. Fost. Law. Ned Bro. Catch, and Black Robins Kindnesse.
With the merry Conceits of Doctor Pinch-backe a notable Makeshift. Ten times more pleasant
than any thing yet published of this matter. Non ad imitandum, sed ad euitandum. London, Printed
for Francis Williams. 1626.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 6). Q. 9. 4.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 and G 4 (? blank). Epistle
     ‘To all Gentlemen’ etc. signed S. R. Verses to the reader. ‘The
     Notable, Slie, and Deceitfull Prankes of Doctor Pinchback’, begins
     with head-title on sig. F 4. The first edition appeared after
     Greene’s death, namely in 1602, edited and possibly written by S.
     R., probably Samuel Rowlands. The present is the second edition.

     BM 727.

Greenes Neuer too Late. Both Partes. Sent to all youthfull Gentlemen, deciphering in a true
English Historie, those particular vanities, that with their Frostie vapours, nip the blossomes
of euery braine, from attaining to his intended perfection. As pleasant as profitable, being
a right Pumice stone, apt to race out idlenesse with delight, and folly with admonition. By
Robert Greene, In artibus Magister. Omne tulit punctum. London, Printed by William Stansby
for Iohn Smithwicke, and are to bee sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstanes Churchyard in Fleete-streete
vnder the Diall. ¦1621.¦

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 4⅞). R. 17. 2.

     Collation: A-Q⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to Thomas Barnaby,
     signed. Address to the readers, signed. Verses by Ralph Sidney and
     Rich. Hake. The first edition of Part I appeared in 1590; Part II
     the same year under the title of ‘Francescos Fortunes’; the two
     parts together for the first time in 1600. The date, which is
     shorn, appears to be either 1621 or 1631. It is not the same
     edition as any of the BM copies, but the titlepage corresponds
     almost exactly with that of the 1616 edition. Wherein is plainely set downe the
disorders in all Estates and Trades. By Robert Greene. [Woodcut.]
London, printed by E. Purslow, dwelling at the East end ¦of
Christs-Church. 1635.¦

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6½ × 4¾). W. 5. 4.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Thomas Burnaby, signed. Address to the readers. The
     fourth extant edition, the first having appeared in 1592. There
     were however probably two issues in 1592 previous to the one
     extant, which were suppressed.

     BM 730.

GRIMESTON, EDWARD.

Admirable and memorable Histories.... 1607. See GOULART, Simon.

GUEVARA, ANTONIO DE.

The Dial of Princes Compiled by the reuerend father in God, Don Antony of Gueuara, Byshop of
Guadix, Preacher, & Chronicler to Charles the fift, late of that name Emperour. Englished out
of the French by Thomas North, sonne of Sir Edward North Knight L. North of Kirtheling. And
nowe newly reuised and corrected by hym, refourmed of faultes escaped in the first edition:
with an amplification also of a fourth booke annexed to the same, Entituled The fauoured Courtier,
neuer heretofore imprinted in our vulgare tongue. Right necessarie and pleasaunt to all noble
and vertuous persons. Nowe newly imprinted by Richarde Tottill. An. Domini 1582. Cum priuilegio.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5½). Q. 1.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A-C⁸D⁶; A-3N⁸3O⁴,
     folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to Queen Mary, signed by the
     translator and dated Lincolnes Inn, December 20 [1557]. Guevara’s
     two Prologues. Argument. Table of contents. The third edition, the
     first having appeared in 1557.

     Sinker 283. BM 739.

HAKLUYT, RICHARD.

The principal Nauigations, Voiages, Traffiques and Discoueries of the English Nation, made
by Sea or ouer-land, to the remote and farthest distant quarters of the Earth, at any time
within the compasse of these 1500. yeeres: Deuided into three seuerall Volumes, according to
the positions of the Regions, whereunto they were directed. This first Volume containing the
woorthy Discoueries, &c. of the English toward the North and Northeast by sea, as of Lapland,
Scrikfinia, Corelia, the Baie of S. Nicolas, the Isles of Colgoieue, Vaigatz, and Noua Zembla,
towards the great riuer Ob, with the mighty Empire of Russia, the Caspian sea, Georgia, Armenia,
Media, Persia, Boghar in Bactria, and diuers kingdoms of Tartaria: Together with many notable
monuments and testimonies of the ancient forren trades, and of the warrelike and other shipping
of this realme of England in former ages. Whereunto is annexed also a briefe Commentarie of
the true state of Island, and of the Northern Seas and lands situate that way. And lastly,
the memorable defeate of the Spanish huge Armada, Anno 1588. and the famous victorie atchieued
at the citie of Cadiz, 1596. are described. By Richard Hakluyt Master of Artes, and sometime
Student of Christ-Church in Oxford. Imprinted at London by George Bishop, Ralph Newberie and
Robert Barker. 1598.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11½ × 7½). E. 1. 1.

     Collation: *-2*⁶A-3E⁶3F⁴, paged. Wanting all after 3E 3,
     containing the account of the victory at Cadiz, also the
     hydrographical map. Epistle dedicatory to Charles Howard, Earl of
     Nottingham, signed. Preface with postscript containing errata.
     Commendatory verses from Hugo Broghton (Greek), Rich. Mulcaster (2
     copies, Lat.), Gulielmus Camdenus (Lat.), and Marc’ Antonio
     Pigafeta (It.). Table of contents. The portion wanting at the end
     was suppressed, but is found in BM, 683. h. 5. In some copies
     (e.g. Grylls 31, 148) a cancel with sigs. a-d² (last leaf blank)
     has been substituted. The map to this volume, which is wanting in
     the present copy, was the first English map on Mercator’s
     projection. There is another titlepage to the present volume (found
     in the Grylls copy) which is dated 1599 and has various differences
     from that given above.

     Sinker 419 (1). BM 760.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11½ × 7½). E. 1. 2.

     Collation: *⁸A-2C⁶3A-3R⁶, paged. Epistle dedicatory to Sir
     Robert Cecil, signed. Table of contents. Part ii begins with fresh
     pagination and head-title at sig. 3A 1.

     Sinker 419 (2). BM 760.

The third and last Volume of the Voyages, Navigations, Traffiques, and Discoueries of the English
Nation, and in some few places, where they have not been, of strangers, performed within and
before the time of these hundred yeeres, to all of the Newfound world of America, or the West
Indies, from 73. degrees of Northerly to 57. of Southerly latitude: As namely to Engronland,
Meta Incognita, Estotiland, Tierra de Labrador, Newfoundland, vp The grand bay, the gulfe of
S. Laurence, and the Riuer of Canada to Hochelaga and Saguenay, along the coast of Arambec,
to the shores and maines of Virginia and Florida, and on the West or backside of them both,
to the rich and pleasant countries of Nueua Biscaya, Cibola, Tiguex, Cicuic, Quiuira, to the
15. prouinces of the kingdome of New Mexico, to the bottome of the gulfe of California, and
vp the Riuer of Buena Guia: And likewise to all the yles both small and great lying before
the cape of Florida, The bay of Mexico, and Tierra firma, to the coasts and Inlands of Newe
Spaine, Tierra firma, and Guiana, vp the mighty Riuers of Orenoque, Dessekebe, and Marannon,
to euery part of the coast of Brasil, to the Riuer of Plate, through the Streights of Magellan
forward and backward, and to the South of the said Streights as far as 57. degrees: And from
thence on the backside of America, along the coastes, harbours, and capes of Chili, Peru, Nicaragua,
Nueua Espanna, Nueua Galicia, Culiacan, California, Noua Albion, and more Northerly as farre
as 43. degrees: Together with the two renowmed, and prosperous voyages of Sir Francis Drake
and M. Thomas Candish round about the circumference of the whole earth, and diuers other voyages
intended and set forth for that course. Anno Dom. 1600.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11½ × 7½). E. 2.

     Sinker 419 (3). BM 760.

HALL, JOSEPH.

Virgidemiarum, Sixe Bookes. First three Bookes, Of Tooth-lesse Satyrs, 1. Poeticall. 2. Academicall.
3. Morall. London Printed by Thomas Creede, for Robert Dexter. 1597.

   8^o. (5 × 3⅜). *. 17. 1.

     Collation: A-E⁸F⁴, paged. Ornament at head and foot of each page.
     F 4 blank. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Verses headed ‘His Defiance to
     Envy’. Latin verses ‘De suis Satyris’. Three books of satires.
     Verse ‘Conclusion’. Two editions are supposed to have been issued
     this year.

     Sinker 653. BM 1543.

Virgidemiarum. The three last Bookes. Of byting Satyres. Corrected and amended with some Additions,
by I. H. Imprinted at London for Robert Dexter, at the signe of the Brasen Serpent in Paules
Church yard. 1599.

   8^o. (5 × 3⅜). *. 17. 2.

     Collation: A²B-H⁸, paged. Wanting H 6-8 (? blank), H 5 defective.
     (In Dr Sinker’s catalogue last sheet is given as H⁶, wrongly.)
     Ornament at head and foot of each page. Verses headed ‘The Authors
     charge to his Satyres’. At the end, ‘A Post-script to the Reader’
     in prose, followed by errata. Each book has a half-title with
     border. Books iv-vi first appeared in 1598; it is possible that
     there may have been two editions that year.

     Sinker 758. BM 750.

HALLE, EDWARD.

¦The Vnion of the two noble and illustre famelies of Lancastre & Yorke, beyng long in continuall
discension for the croune of this noble realme, with al the actes done in both the tymes of
the Princes, both of the one linage & of the other, beginnyng at the tyme of kyng Henry the
fowerth, the first aucthor of this deuision, and so successiuely proceadīg to y^e reigne of
the high and prudent Prince kyng Henry the eyght, the indubitate flower and very heire of both
the saied linages. Whereunto is added to euery kyng a seuerall table. 1550.¦ [Colophon] Imprynted
at London by Rychard Grafton, Prynter to the Kynges Maiestye. 1550. Cum priuilegio ad Imprimendum
solum.

   =B. L.= F^o. (10⅞ × 7⅝). F. 14.

    Title within elaborate genealogical woodcut border of the houses of
    York and Lancaster (wanting). Collation: ❧⁴; (Part i, Henry IV)
    A⁸B-E⁶F²; (Part ii, Henry V) a⁶b⁴c-g⁶h⁸I²; (Part iii, Henry
    VI) a-q⁶r⁸s⁴; (Part iv, Edward IV) A-I⁶K⁸L⁴; (Part v, Edward
    V) 2A-2D⁶; (Part vi, Table to Edward V followed by Richard III)
    2a-2e⁶2f⁸; (Part vii, Henry VII) 3a-3i⁶3k⁸3l⁴; (Part viii,
    Henry VIII) a-z⁶A-Z⁶; paged afresh in each part. Wanting: Part
    iii. s 4, Pt. iv. L 4, Pt. vi. 2f 8, Pt. vii. 3k 8, 3l 4, Pt. viii.
    Z 6, (? blank in each case); also all before Part ii. d 2 (supplied
    from a different edition) and Part viii. Z 1 (this last and title
    supplied in MS.). Epistle dedicatory to Edward VI from Edward Halle.
    Printer’s address to the reader. List of authorities with Table of
    contents on verso. There is an alphabetical Table at the end of each
    reign. This is the second edition but there appear to have been no
    less than four issues of the first, portions being in each case
    reprinted, the bibliography of which has never yet been fully worked
    out. The defect at the beginning is supplied from the edition of
    1548.

HARINGTON, Sir JOHN.

Orlando Furioso.... 1591. [And subsequent editions.] See ARIOSTO, Lodovico.

HARSNETT, SAMUEL, Archbishop of York.

A Declaration of egregious Popish Impostures, to withdraw the harts of her Maiesties Subiects
from their allegeance, and from the truth of Christian Religion professed in England, vnder
the pretence of casting out deuils. Practised by Edmunds, alias Weston a Iesuit, and diuers
Romish Priests his wicked associates. Where-vnto are annexed the Copies of the Confessions,
and Examinations of the parties themselues, which were pretended to be possessed, and dispossessed,
taken vpon oath before her Maiesties Commissioners, for causes Ecclesiasticall. At London Printed
by Iames Roberts, dwelling in Barbican. 1603.

   4^o. (7 × 4¾). S. 24.

     Collation: A-2N⁴2O², paged. Table of contents. Epistle ‘To the
     seduced Catholiques of England’, signed S. H. (i.e. the author,
     Samuel Harsnett). Errata at the end. First edition.

     BM 753.

HEATH, BENJAMIN.

A Revisal of Shakespear’s Text, wherein The Alterations introduced into it by the more modern
Editors and Critics, are particularly considered.... London: Printed for W. Johnston, in Ludgate-Street.
MDCCLXV.

   8^o. (8 × 5¼). P. 6.

     Dedicated to Lord Kaimes. The author was Benjamin Heath.

HEATH, JOHN.

Two Centuries of Epigrammes. Written by Iohn Heath, Bachelour of Arts, and fellow of New Colledge
in Oxford. 1610.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3¾). *. 1. 2.

     Collation: A-F⁸, unpaged. Wanting A 1 and F 8 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Thomas Bilson, son of the Bishop of Winchester,
     signed. Commendatory verses, all in Latin, signed Tho. Watkins,
     Tho. Tucker, Franciscus Souch, Iohannes Heath, Hugo Robinson, (two
     copies unsigned), Io. Rogers, Io. Harris, (one copy unsigned),
     Rich. Zouch, (one copy unsigned), Eduardus Pit, Io. Richards, Io.
     South. Author’s verses to the reader in English. ‘Epigrammata
     Centuria secunda’ begins with head-title on D 4.

     BM 785.

HELIODORUS.

An Æthiopian Historie, written in Greeke by Heliodorus, no lesse wittie then pleasaunt: Englished
by Thomas Vnderdowne, & newly corrected and augmented with diuers and sundry newe additions
by the said Authour. Whereunto is also annexed the argument of euery booke in the beginning
of the same, for the better vnderstanding of the storie. Imprinted at London, for Frauncis
Coldocke, and are to be sold at his shop in Paules church yeard, at the signe of the greene
Dragon. Anno. 1587.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 11. 1.

     Collation: ¶²A-S⁸T⁶, folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to
     Edward Deviere, Earl of Oxford, signed. The first edition appeared
     about 1567 and there appears to have been a second in 1577. The
     present edition represents the final text.

     Sinker 357. BM 787.

HENRY V, King of England.

The famous Victories of Henry The fifth. Containing the Honourable Battell of Agin-Court. As
it was Acted by the Kinges Maiesties Seruants. London Imprinted by Barnard Alsop, dwelling
in Garter place in Barbican. 1617.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5). T. 9. 3.

     Collation: A-F⁴G², unpaged. Second edition, the first having
     appeared in 1598. There was another issue of this edition the same
     year, with a different titlepage on which it is said to be “sold by
     Tymothie Barlow”.

     BM 790.

HERODOTUS.

The Famous Hystory of Herodotus. Conteyning the Discourse of dyuers Countreys, the succession
of theyr Kyngs: the actes and exploytes atchieued by them: the Lawes and customes of euery
Nation: with the true Description and Antiquitie of the same. Deuided into nine Bookes, entituled
with the names of the nine Muses. At London Printed by Thomas Marshe. 1584.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 1. 1.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A⁴B-Q⁸, folios numbered.
     Last leaf blank. Epistle dedicatory to Robert Dormer, son to Sir
     William Dormer, signed by the translator, B. R. Address to the
     readers also signed B. R. (i.e. possibly Barnaby Rich). The
     translation only contains two books.

     Sinker 325. BM 800.

HEYWOOD, JOHN.

Iohn Heywoodes woorkes. A dialogue conteyning the number of the effectuall prouerbes in the
English tonge, compact in a matter concernynge two maner of Mariages. With one hundred of Epigrammes:
and three hundred of Epigrammes upō three hundred prouerbes: and a fifth hundred of Epigrams.
Whereunto are now newly added a sixte hundred of Epigrams by the sayde Iohn Heywood. Londini
1566. [Colophon] Imprinted at London in Fleetestrete by Henry Wykes. Cum priuilegio.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6½ × 4⅞). W. 2.

     Collation: A-2D⁴2E², unpaged. Wanting 2D 2 and 3, containing
     epigrams 62-89 of the sixth hundred, and 2E 2 (? blank). Preface in
     verse. Two parts of the ‘Dialogue’, ‘The first hundred of
     Epigrammes’ with title, verses to the reader, and table of
     contents. ‘Three hundred Epigrammes’ with title, preceded by
     woodcut portrait of the author, and table of contents. ‘The fifth
     hundred of Epygrammes’ with title, verses to the reader and table
     of contents. ‘A sixt hundred of Epigrammes’, with title, verses to
     the reader and table of contents. This is the second edition of the
     so-called ‘Works’, the first having appeared in 1562. The
     ‘Dialogue’ first appeared separately in 1546.

     Sinker 238. BM 806.

HEYWOOD, THOMAS.

An Apology For Actors. Containing three briefe Treatises. 1 Their Antiquity. 2 Their ancient
Dignity. 3 The true vse of their quality. Written by Thomas Heywood. Et prodesse solent & delectare--London,
Printed by Nicholas Okes. 1612.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 32. 2.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation: A⁴a⁴B-G⁴, unpaged.
    Epistle dedicatory to Edward, Earl of Worcester, signed. Address ‘To
    my good Friends and Fellowes, the Citty-Actors’, signed T. H.
    Address to the reader, signed. Commendatory verses, signed: Αλ.
    Πρ. (Greek), ‘Pessimus omnium Poëta’, (Lat.), Ar: Hopton, Iohn
    Webster, Rich. Perkins, Christopher Beeston, Robert Pallant, Iohn
    Taylor. ‘The Author to his Booke’, signed. At the end, author’s
    Epistle to Nicholas Okes (the printer), signed.

     BM 807.

The Actors Vindication, containing, Three brief Treatises, viz. I. Their Antiquity. II. Their
antient Dignity. III. R. 18. 5.

    Collation: A⁴a⁴B-G⁴, paged. Wanting G 4 (? blank). Epistle
    dedicatory to Henry, Marquis of Dorchester, signed W. C. (i.e.
    Cartwright, the bookseller.) Epistle ‘To my good Friends and
    Fellows, the Actors of this City’, signed T. H. Address to the
    reader signed T. Heywood. This edition
    was probably printed about 1655.

Pleasant Dialogues and Dramma’s, selected out of Lucian, Erasmus, Textor, Ovid, &c. With sundry
Emblems extracted from the most elegant Iacobus Catsius. As also certaine Elegies, Epitaphs,
and Epithalamions or Nuptiall Songs; Anagrams and Acrosticks; With divers Speeches (upon severall
occasions) spoken to their most Excellent Majesties, King Charles, and Queene Mary. With other
Fancies translated from Beza, Bucanan, and sundry Italian Poets. By Tho. Heywood. Aut prodesse
solent, aut delectare---- London, Printed by R. O. for R. H. and are to be sold by Thomas Slater
at the Swan in Duck-lane 1637.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3½). *. 2.

     Collation: A-V⁸, paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank.) Epistle dedicatory
     to Henry Cary, Baron of Hunsdon, Earle of Dover, signed. Epistle to
     the reader, signed. Table of contents. Commendatory verses, signed:
     Sh. Marmion, D. E., S. N. The volume contains, eighteen
     ‘Dialogues’, three ‘Dramas’, ‘An Emblematicall Dialogue’,
     ‘Prologues and Epilogues’, ‘Elegies and Epitaphs’, ‘Epithalamions’,
     ‘Epigrams’, ‘Sundry other Fancies’, ‘Annotations’ on the dialogues
     &c., and some verses translated from Perisaulus Faustinus. Much
     that appeared in this volume must have been written at least forty
     years before.

     BM 809.

HOBBES, THOMAS.

De Mirabilibus Pecci: being the Wonders of the Peak in Darby-shire, Commonly called The Devil’s
Arse of Peak. In English and Latine. The Latine Written by Thomas Hobbes of Malmsbury. The
English by a Person of Quality. London, Printed for William Crook at the Green Dragon without
Temple-Bar, 1678.

   8^o. (6½ × 4¼). W. 3. 2.

     Collation: A-E⁸F⁴, paged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Licence, signed
     Rog. L’estrange, and dated Sept. 3, 1677. The poem is addressed to
     William, Earl of Devonshire. Advertisement at the end. The first
     edition containing the Latin only appeared in 1636. The present is
     the third.

HOLINSHED, RAPHAEL.

1577. The Firste volume of the Chronicles of England, Scotlande, and Irelande. Conteyning,
The description and Chronicles of England, from the first inhabiting vnto the conquest. The
description and Chronicles of Scotland, from the first originall of the Scottes nation, till
the yeare of our Lorde. 1571 The description and Chronicles of Yrelande, likewise from the
firste originall of that Nation, vntill the yeare. 1547. Faithfully gathered and set forth,
by Raphaell Holinshed. At London, Imprinted for Iohn Harrison. God saue the Queene.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11¼ × 7¾). F. 1.

    Title within woodcut border with Bynneman’s mermaid device.
    Collation: ¶⁶*²A-P⁸Q⁶, one leaf signed r 1 inserted; a-s⁸,
    one leaf signed t (see vol. ii.); A²(*b*)²*a*-*b*⁶;
    A-2I⁸2K⁴2L-2M⁶; ❧² A-C⁸D⁴; A-G⁸H⁶, with one unsigned
    leaf inserted after H 5, I². Paged in part, folios numbered in
    part. *b*6 blank. Double columns. Woodcuts. In the last alphabet E
    6-8 have been cancelled completely, and leaves F 2 and 7 are cancels
    (inserted separately) substituted for the original leaves. (Another
    copy in the Library, VI^b.4.7, contains E6-8 and also the original
    leaves F2 and 7.) The leaf signed r 1 which should follow Q 6 of
    first alphabet is misplaced in the middle of sheet *. On the verso
    of titlepage is a cut of the Holinshed arms quartered with those of
    the Goddistons of Essex, the whole charged with a crescent of
    difference. This reappears on the verso of both the separate
    titlepages. Epistle dedicatory to William Cecill, Lord Burleigh,
    signed. Preface. List of authorities. Head-title to the description
    of Britain with table of chapters to the first book. Epistle
    dedicatory to William Brook, Lord Cobham, signed W. H. Three books
    of the description, folios numbered. One leaf of errata inserted.
    History of England to the Conquest, paged. Separate titlepage ‘1577.
    The Historie of Scotlande, conteyning the beginning, increase,
    proceedings, continuance, Actes and Gouernemente of the Scottish
    nation, from the originall thereof vnto the yeare. 1571. Gathered
    and written in the English tongue by R. H. At London, Imprinted for
    Iohn Harrison. God saue the Queene’, within border as before. List
    of authorities. Epistle dedicatory to Robert Dudley, Earl of
    Leicester, signed. Head-title to ‘The Description of Scotlande,
    written at the first by Hector Boethus in Latin, and afterwarde
    translated into the Scottish speech by Iohn Bellendon Archdeacon of
    Murrey, and now finally into English, for the benefite of such as
    are studious in the Histories, by W. H.’, and list of chapters.
    Epistle dedicatory by the translator, William Harison, to Thomas
    Secford ‘Maister of the Requestes.’ The description, with fresh
    pagination. The History of Scotland, with fresh pagination, and with
    alphabetical table at end. Separate titlepage ‘1577. The Historie
    of Irelande from the first inhabitation thereof, vnto the yeare
    1509. Collected by Raphaell Holinshed, and continued till the yeare
    1547 by Richarde Stanyhurst. At London, Imprinted for Iohn Harison. The description of
    Ireland by Stanyhurst, addressed to Sidney, with fresh pagination.
    The History of Ireland, with fresh pagination, having serpent device
    at end, followed by a table of the governors &c. of Ireland from
    1174-1541. One leaf containing errata for Scotland and Ireland
    inserted. Alphabetical table. Copies differ in the titlepages (see
    below).

     Sinker 463 (1). BM 823.

1577. The Laste volume of the Chronicles of England, Scotlande, and Irelande, with their descriptions.
Conteyning, The Chronicles of Englande from William Conquerour vntill this present tyme. Faithfully
gathered and compiled by Raphaell Holinshed. At London, Imprinted for Lucas Harison. God saue
the Queene.

   F^o. =B. L.= (11¼ × 7⅝). F. 2.

     Collation: ¶²t2-8 (continuing sig. t from vol. i. 2nd alphabet)
     v-z⁸A-4E⁸ with one leaf, signed 4E 5, inserted after 4E 4,
     4F-4Y⁸ with two unsigned leaves inserted after 4Y 6, 4Z²;
     ()²A-M⁴N², paged continuously with the History of England in
     vol. i. Double columns. Woodcuts. In the present copy the sheet
     containing the two-page woodcut of Edinburgh, which should appear
     after 4Y 6 is inserted after 4Z 2. L 7 is a cancel printed on
     different paper in different type. Arms on verso of titlepage as
     before. Preface. History. At the end, sig. () contains errata to
     History of England in both volumes. This is followed by
     Alphabetical Table. With the exception of the cancelled leaves in
     vol. i. the present copy appears to be absolutely complete. In
     different copies various publishers’ names appear on the titlepages
     which are otherwise printed from one setting up of the type. The
     book was entered in the Stationers’ Register to John Harison and
     George Bishop, and a certain number of copies were printed for
     each. But copies also occur bearing the names of Lucas Harison and
     John Hunne. Copies are very frequently made up of the separate
     parts printed for different stationers. The printer was no doubt
     Bynneman.

     Sinker 463 (2). BM 823.

HOLLAND, HENRY.

Herωologia Anglica: hoc est, clarissimorum et doctissimorum aliqout [sic] Anglorum qui floruerunt
ab anno Cristi . M. D. usq’ ad presentem annum M. D. C. XX. Viuæ Effigies, Vitæ et elogia:
Duobus tomis. Authore. H. H. Anglo-Britanno: Impensis Crispini Passæi Calcographus [sic] et
Jansonij Bibliopolæ Arnhemiensis.

   F^o. (11⅝ × 7⅝). E. 3.

     Titlepage engraved. (‘Calcographus’ altered to ‘Calcographi,’ in
     ink.) Collation: )(^{10}A-V⁶, one leaf unsigned; paged. Wanting )(
     5 and 6 containing Post-præfatio and first copy of verses. Most of
     the engravings are included in the collation and have printing on
     the back, the following only are inserted: tomb of Queen Elizabeth,
     after D 2; Martin Frobisher, after H 6; John, Lord Harington of
     Exton (second portrait), after M 1; John Bale, after O 4.
     Dedication to King James. Præfatio. Post-Præfatio. Commendatory
     verses by T. D. (two copies), S. R. V. M. Eccl: Belg: Lond:, I. D.
     Scoto-Britannus (2 copies), A. B. (2 copies). Verses by A. G.
     Xylandrus. ‘Tomus Secundus’ begins with half-title at sig. M 5. On
     D 6^v is a portrait of Prince Henry which is a smaller copy with
     verses subscribed of the Hole engraving in Drayton’s ‘Poly-olbion’
     of 1613. The unsigned leaf at the end is occupied by a table of
     contents.

     BM 824.

HOLLAND, PHILEMON.

The Philosophie ... written by ... Plutarch of Chæronea.... 1603. See PLUTARCH.

HOMER.

The Whole Works of Homer; Prince of Poetts. In his Iliads, and Odysses. Translated according
to the Greeke, By Geo: Chapman. De Ili: et Odiss:

   Omnia ab his; et in his sunt omnia: siue beati
   Te decor eloquij, seu rerũ pondera tangunt. Angel: Pol:

At London Printed for Nathaniell Butter.

   F^o. (11⅜ × 7¼). F. 4.

     Engraved titlepage signed William Hole. Collation: 2 leaves
     unsigned, replacing original engraved titlepage. * 2-6, with two
     leaves inserted after * 5 (* 4 misprinted A 4), A-2F⁶2G⁸;
     A3-6B-Q⁶R⁸ S-2H⁶2I⁸; paged. R 8 and 2I 8 in second alphabet
     blank. Wanting the two leaves inserted in sig. *, and * 6, also 2G
     8 (? blank). This edition is made up of earlier editions of both
     parts; the ‘Odessey’ is also inserted between the new title-sheet
     and the ‘Iliad’ instead of following the latter. The title-sheet
     contains, engraved titlepage, with engraved portrait of the
     translator on the verso; engraved memorial to Prince Henry on
     second leaf. (In some copies the engraved titlepage is found
     without the portrait on verso, and these seem to be the earlier
     impressions.) This sheet takes the place of the original titlepage
     (c. 1612-13) and the dedicatory verses to Sir Edward Philips
     found in some copies of the original issue. Dedicatory verses to
     Prince Henry, signed by the translator. Anagram on Prince Henry.
     Verses to Queen Anne, signed. Verses to Viscounts Cranborne and
     Rochester and Sir Edward Philips, occupying the two inserted leaves
     (wanting in the present copy). Verses to the reader (first leaf
     wanting). Preface. Errata. Twenty-four books of the ‘Iliad’. Verses
     to the Duke of Lenox, the Lord Chancellor, Earl of Salisbury, Earl
     of Suffolk, Earl of Northampton, Earl of Arundell, Earl of
     Pembroke, Earl of Montgomerie, Lord Lisle, Countess of Montgomerie,
     Lady Wrothe, Countess of Bedford, Earl of Southampton, Earl of
     Sussex, the Lord Warden, and Sir Thomas Howard, signed at the end.
     The edition of the ‘Odessey’ had appeared in 1614, with an engraved
     title ‘Homer’s Odysses. Translated according to y^e Greeke. By Geo:
     Chapman. Imprinted at London by Rich: Field, for Nathaniell
     Butter’. This and the blank leaf preceding it have been cancelled
     in the present as in most other copies of the collected edition. In
     some copies, e.g. in that in the Cambridge University Library, is
     found a printed titlepage: ‘Homers Odesses. Translated According to
     the Greeke. By George Chapman. [Motto.] London, Printed for
     Nathaniel Butter’. Epistle dedicatory in verse and prose to Robert,
     Earl of Somerset. Translations of Greek epigrams. Twenty-four books
     of the ‘Odessey’ with a few verses at the end. The present which
     was the first collected edition appeared about 1616. It seems to be
     generally assumed that the collected edition of 1616 contained, not
     the 1612-13 ‘Iliad’, but a reprint. Copies in this state are found
     in the Cambridge University Library and the British Museum (G.
     8837). The reprint, however, which appears in these copies must be
     of considerably later date, as is evident from the constant use of
     ‘v’ medially. It was probably printed about 1640. Two of the
     woodcut figures used as head-pieces were so used (with the same
     break in the St Francis) in a book printed, probably by T. Harper,
     in 1641 (namely the reprint of ‘The Devil is an Ass’ found in some
     copies of the second volume of Ben Jonson’s works, q.v.).
     Evidently the stock of the ‘Iliad’ gave out before the ‘Odessey’
     and the first part of the volume had in consequence to be
     reprinted. Probably therefore the majority of copies of Chapman’s
     ‘Homer’ described as being of the edition of 1616 were not in
     reality issued till some twenty years later.

     BM 828.

HORMANUS, HADRIANUS JULIUS.

The Lyues, Of Philosophers and Oratours.... [1579.] See EUNAPIUS.

HOWARD, HENRY, Earl of Surrey.

Songes and Sonettes written by the right honorable Lorde Henry Haward late Earle of Surrey,
and other. Apud Richardum Tottell. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum. 1557. [Colophon] Imprinted
at London in fletestrete within Temple barre, at the signe of the hand and starre, by Richard
Tottill, the .xxxi. day of Iuly. Anno. 1557. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅜ × 4⅝). W. 1.

     Collation: A-2G⁴, folios numbered. Prose address to the reader.
     Alphabetical table at the end. At the foot of f. 18^v is the
     subscription ‘Surrey’, applying to the foregoing poems. So again at
     the foot of f. 49^v is the subscription ‘T. Wyate the elder’, while
     f. 50 is headed ‘Songes and Sonettes of vncertain auctours’. Again
     on f. 113 occurs the heading ‘Songes written by N. G.’ (i.e.
     Nicholas Grimald, the probable editor), while at the end of the
     poems the initials N. G. are also found. The ‘Songs of uncertain
     Authors’ are supposed to include poems by Thomas Lord Vaux, Sir
     Francis Bryan, John Heywood, Thomas Churchyard, and Edward
     Somerset. This is the second edition, the first, of which only one
     copy is known, having appeared on June 5 of the same year. In the
     second edition thirty poems by Grimald which appeared in the first
     are replaced by an additional thirty-nine poems by uncertain
     authors; some of the other matter is also rearranged. The present
     copy differs throughout from that in the BM, though the date in
     both is identical, the type having apparently been set up in
     duplicate. On the verso of the last leaf are some verses in an
     English hand of the sixteenth or early seventeenth century.

     Sinker 222. BM 839.

Songes and Sonnets, written by the Right honourable Lord Henry Haward late Earle of Surrey,
and others, Imprinted at London by Iohn Windet. 1585.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (6⅜ × 4⅛). Y. 1.

     Collation: A-P⁸, folios numbered. Address to the reader.
     Alphabetical table at end. The subscription ‘Surrey’ and ‘S. T.
     Wyat the elder’ occur respectively on fols. 19 and 49^v, the
     headings ‘Vncertaine Auctours’ and ‘Songs written by N. G.’ on
     fols. 50 and 113^v respectively. Seventh edition.

     Sinker 625. BM 839.

HOWELL, THOMAS.

Newe Sonets, and pretie Pamphlets. Written by Thomas Howell Gentleman. Newly augmented, corrected
and amended. [Woodcut.] Imprinted at London in Fletestreete, at the signe of the S. Iohn Euangelist,
by Thomas Colwell.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 4¾). S. 8. 2.

     Collation: A-G⁴, paged (B-E only). Wanting D 3 and 4. Epistle
     dedicatory to Henry Lassels, signed. Verses to the same, also
     signed. Commendatory verses from John Keper (English and Latin),
     and the author’s brother William Howell. Several poems by J. Keeper
     occur in the course of the work. The present is the only known
     copy. It was licensed to Colwell in 1567/8, but of what is
     presumably the original issue (c. 1568) three leaves only are
     extant, in the Huth collection. The present reprint must date
     between the years 1568 and 1575 when Colwell ceased printing. On A
     4^v occurs a device formerly used by Robert Wyer (device 2, but
     without name).

     Sinker 359.

HUSBAND.

The Husband. A Poeme expressed In a Compleat Man. Loripedem rectus derideat, Æthiopem albus:
Iuv: sat: pri: London Printed for Lawrence L’isle, dwelling at the Tygres head in Pauls Church-yard.
1614.

   8^o. (5¾ × 3⅝). Z. 3. 3.

     Title within arabesque border, at the foot of which are the
     initials T C, probably those of Thomas Creede the printer. Ornament
     at head and foot of each page. Collation: A-F⁸, unpaged. A 1
     blank but for signature, and F 8 blank. Epistle dedicatory to Anth.
     Croftes, dated, June 29, 1614. Epistle to the reader. Commendatory
     verses from Ben: Jonson, I. C., Ra: Wym:, Io: Calue: Ex inter:
     Temp:, A: H: Ex Temp: Med:, Philomus: Ex Graij: Hospi:, Robertus
     Vescius (Lat), R. V. (Lat.), M: Freeman. Verses from ‘The Author to
     his præfix’d Approuers’. Argument in prose. The only other copy
     that can be traced was in Bibl. Anglo Poet, and Heber sale. The
     volume was reprinted in 1710. The author is not known. Two years
     later John Davies of Hereford published a similar work entitled ‘A
     select second Husband for Sir Thomas Overburies Wife, now a
     matchless Widow.’

JAMES VI of Scotland.

The Essayes of a Prentise, in the deuine Art of Poesie. Imprinted at Edinbrugh, by Thomas Vautroullier.
1584. Cum Priuilegio Regali.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 6. 1.

     Collation: *⁴A-P⁴, unpaged. A 2, O 1 and O 3 are blank. Catalogue
     of contents on verso of titlepage. Sonnets, signed: T. H., R. H.,
     M. W., M. W. F., A. M. ‘De huius Libri Auctore, Herculis Rolloci
     coniectura’ (Lat.). ‘Acrosticon’ reading ‘Iacobus Sextus’ signed
     ‘Pa. Ad. Ep. Sanct.’ in Latin with Latin epigram by the same.
     Twelve sonnets with ‘Ane Quadrain of Alexandrin Verse’ prefixed.
     ‘The Vranie translated.’ (half-title with cuts of zodiacal signs, C
     2). Address to the reader. Text, French and English on opposite
     pages. ‘Ane metaphoricall Inuention of a Tragedie called Phoenix’
     (half-title, G 2). ‘A Paraphrasticall Translation out of the Poete
     Lucane’ (half-title, I 3). ‘Ane schort Treatise, conteining some
     reulis and cautelis to be obseruit and eschewit in Scottis Poesie’
     (half-title, K 1). ‘A Quadrain of Alexandrin Verse, declaring to
     quhome the Authour hes directit his labour’ (‘to the docile bairns
     of knawledge’). Preface. ‘Sonnet of the Author to the Reader.’
     ‘Sonnet decifring the perfyte Poete’ followed by the ‘Treatise’ in
     eight chapters. ‘The CIIII. Psalme, translated out of Tremellius’
     (half-title, N 2). ‘Ane schort Poeme of Tyme.’ (O 2). ‘A Table of
     some obscure Wordis with their Significations, efter the ordour of
     the Alphabet.’ ‘Sonnet of the Author.’ ‘I haue insert for the
     filling out of thir vacand pageis, the verie wordis of Plinius vpon
     the Phœnix, as followis.’ This last is not found in all copies.
     Some copies are dated the following year. None of the contents were
     included in the collected works of 1616.

     Sinker 849. BM 862.

JOHN, King of England.

The Troublesome Raigne of Iohn King of England, with the discouerie of King Richard Cordelions
Base sonne (vulgarly named, The Bastard Fawconbridge): also the death of King Iohn at Swinstead
Abbey. As it was (sundry times) publikely acted by the Queenes Maiesties Players, in the honourable
Citie of London. Imprinted at London for Sampson Clarke, and are to solde at his shop, on the
backe-side of the Royall Exchange. 1591.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅜ × 4½). W. 5. 2.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. With verse address to the readers. First
     edition. The only perfect copy of this and the following item
     known. An imperfect one, the only other known at all, was sold at
     Sotheby’s, Apr. 25, 1899.

     Sinker 725.

   Sinker 726. Written by W. Sh. Imprinted at London by
Valentine Simmes for Iohn Helme, and are to be sold at his shop in Saint
Dunstons Churchyard in Fleetestreet. 1611.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 4⅞). T. 8. 4.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. M 2 blank. Part II begins with
     head-title at sig. H 4, with verse address to the readers prefixed.
     Second edition.

     BM 1385.

The First and second Part of the troublesome Raigne of Iohn King of England. As they were (sundry
times) lately acted. Written by W. Shakespeare. London, Printed by Aug. Mathewes for Thomas
Dewe, and are to be sold at his shop in St. Dunstones Church-yard in Fleet-street, 1622.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 22. 3.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Part II begins with separate
     titlepage bearing the same imprint, at sig. G 4. On the verso is
     the verse address to the readers. Third edition.

     BM 1393.

JONSON, BENJAMIN.

The Workes of Beniamin Ionson

   --neque, me vt miretur turba, laboro:
   Contentus paucis lectoribus.

Imprinted at London by Will Stansby An^o D. 1616.

   F^o. (10⅜ × 7⅛). G. 1.

     Engraved titlepage signed Guliel. Hole. Collation: ¶⁶A-4P⁶4Q⁴,
     paged. Wanting ¶ 1 (? blank) and all after P 4. Catalogue of
     contents. Commendatory verses from I. Selden, Ed. Heyward, Geor.
     Chapman, H. Holland, I. D. (Lat.), E. Bolton (Lat.), Franc.
     Beaumont (3 copies). Each play, the ‘Epigrammes’ etc., ‘Part of the
     King’s Entertainment’, ‘A Panegyre’, ‘A Particular Entertainment’
     and the ‘Masques’ have separate titlepages. Copies present various
     points of difference. In the present copy ‘Every man out of his
     Humour’ and ‘Cynthias Revels’ have woodcut borders to their
     respective titlepages. G 2 is not paged and has ‘your true Honorer’
     in the subscription. The stage direction is omitted on G5^v. The
     titlepage to ‘Poetaster’ bears the stationer’s as well as printer’s
     name. This is the first edition of the first volume of the
     collected works, and the only one published during the author’s
     life. It was reprinted when the second volume was collected in
     1640. The present copy has an elaborate heraldic bookplate of
     Thomas Cokayne.

     BM 893.

The Workes of Benjamin Jonson. The second Volume. Containing these Playes, Viz. 1 Bartholomew
Fayre. 2 The Staple of Newes. 3 The Divell is an Asse. London, Printed for Richard Meighen, 1640.

   F^o. (11¼ × 7⅛). F. 8.

     Collation: A⁶B-Y⁴2A-2H⁴2I⁶; A-P⁴Q²R-V⁴; B-Q⁴R²S-X⁴Y²;
     Z-2O⁴2P²2Q⁴; A-K⁴L²M-R⁴; paged. Sigs. Z-2Q of third alphabet
     misplaced at end of second. The first three plays, those mentioned
     on the general titlepage, but in the order 1, 3, 2, each have a
     separate titlepage with imprint ‘London, Printed by I. B. for
     Robert Allot, and are to be sold at the signe of the Beare, in
     Pauls Church-yard. 1631.’ (2 also has fresh pagination.) These
     constitute the first alphabet of sigs., the first leaf of A (?
     originally blank) being replaced by the general titlepage. The
     second alphabet, with fresh pagination, contains three plays, ‘The
     Magnetic Lady’, ‘A Tale of a Tub’, ‘The Sad Shepherd’, each with a
     separate titlepage without printer’s or stationer’s name but dated,
     the first two 1640, the third 1641. The third alphabet, with fresh
     pagination, contains ‘Masques’ without separate titlepage,
     ‘Underwoods’ and the fragment of ‘Mortimer’ each with separate
     titlepage dated 1640. The last alphabet, again with fresh
     pagination, contains ‘Horace his Art of Poetry’, ‘The English
     Grammar’ and ‘Timber or Discoveries’, each with separate titlepage,
     the first two dated 1640, the last 1641. This is the first edition
     of the second volume and is for the most part composed of matter
     which had not previously appeared. It was later re-issued without
     the general titlepage and with the three 1631 plays replaced by a
     reprint dated 1641 of ‘The Devil is an Ass’ only.

     BM 893.

Ben: Ionson’s Execration against Vulcan. With divers Epigrams by the same Author to severall
Noble Personages in this Kingdome. Never Published before. London: Printed by J. O. for John
Benson, and are to be sold at his shop at St. Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet-streete. 1640.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 33. 5.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Engraved portrait signed Ro. Vaughan,
     with verses below. Epistle dedicatory to Thomas, Lord Windsor,
     signed by the publisher. Imprimatur, signed Matth. Clay, and dated
     Dec. 14, 1639. Verses at end to Jonson signed Zouch Tounley,
     followed by list of errata.

     BM 894.

KENDALL, TIMOTHY.

¦Flowres of Epigrammes, out of sundrie the moste singular authours selected, as well auncient
as late writers. Pleasant and profitable to the expert readers of quicke capacitie: By Timothe
Kendall, late of the Vniuersitie of Oxford: now student of Staple Inne in London.

                  Horatius.
   Aut prodesse volunt, aut delectare poetæ,
   Aut simul & iucunda, aut idonea dicere vitæ.

Imprinted at London in Poules Churche-yarde, at the signe of the Brasen Serpent, by Ihon Shepperd.
1577.¦

   =B. L.= 8^o (5¼ × 3⅜). *. 7.

     Collation: a⁸A-S⁸, folios numbered. Wanting all before A 1, also
     P 1, containing title to Part ii. The first sheet (wanting)
     contains titlepage with list of sources on verso; epistle
     dedicatory to Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, signed; address to
     the reader; commendatory verses from W. Seymour, George Whetstones,
     E. G., Abraham Fleminge, A. W., G. L. (2 copies, Latin). The
     Epigrams begin with head-title on A1. ‘Trifles by Timothie Kendall’
     with separate title and fresh foliation. At the end, below the
     colophon, appears a woodcut emblem with a couplet from Martial
     (Epig. XIII. 77).

     Sinker 544. BM 908.

KIT, of Kingstone (pseud.).

Westward for Smelts. Or, The Water-mans Fare of mad-merry Western wenches, whose tongues albeit
like Bell-clappers, they neuer leaue Ringing, yet their Tales are sweet, and will much content
you. Written by Kinde Kit of Kingstone. [Woodcut.] London, Printed for Iohn Trundle, and are
to be sold at his shop in Barbican, at the Signe of the No-body. 1620.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5⅜). Q. 8. 4.

     Collation: A-E⁴F², unpaged. Address to the reader, signed.
     Halliwell, who reprinted the collection for the Percy Society in
     1848, from the present copy, supposed it to be unique. Another,
     however, formerly in the Roxburgh, is now in the Huth collection.

KNOLLES, RICHARD.

The generall Historie of the Turkes, from The first beginning of that Nation to the rising
of the Othoman Familie: with all the notable expeditions of the Christian Princes against them.
Together with the Lives and Conquests of the Othoman Kings and Emperours Faithfullie collected
out of the best Histories, both auntient and moderne, and digested into one continuat Historie
vntill this present yeare 1603: By Richard Knolles London: Printed by Adam Islip. 1603.

   F^o. (12⅞ × 8⅝). B. 4.

     Engraved titlepage signed Laurence Iohnson. Collation: A-5G⁶ 5H⁸,
     paged. A1 blank. Epistle dedicatory to King James, signed. Address
     to the reader, signed and dated, Sandwich, Sept. 30, 1603. List of
     authorities. The history, with engraved portraits in the text,
     signed L. I. and dated 1603. At the end ‘A brief discourse of the
     greatnesse of the Turkish empire’ (unpaged) with head-title on sig.
     5F 1, after which is the alphabetical index and list of errata.
     First edition.

     BM 915. The second edition. Printed by Adam Islip. 1610.

   F^o. (12¼ × 8⅜). C. 1.

     Engraved titlepage as above, partly re-engraved. Collation:
     A-5S⁴6A-6B⁶6C⁸, paged. In the text
     re-appear the engravings of 1603. At the end of the history is a
     note to the reader. ‘A briefe discourse of the greatnesse of the
     Turkish Empire’, unpaged, begins with head-title on 6A 1, followed
     by alphabetical table. At the end of this copy are inserted two
     leaves containing notes in an old handwriting. Second edition.

     BM 915.

LANGLAND, WILLIAM.

The vision of Pierce Plowman, nowe the seconde time imprinted by Roberte Crowley dwellynge
in Elye rentes in Holburne. Whereunto is added certayne notes and cotations in the mergyne,
geuynge light to the Reader. And in the begynning is set a briefe summe of all the principall
matters spoken of in the boke. And as the boke is deuided into twenty partes called Passus:
so is the Summary diuided, for euery parte hys summarie, rehearsynge the matters spoken of
in euery parte, euen in suche order as they stande there. Imprinted at London by Roberte Crowley,
dwellyng in Elye rentes in Holburne. The yere of our Lord. M. D. L. Cum priuiligio ad imprimendum
solum.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 5.

    Collation: *⁴[bullet]⁴A-2F⁴2G², folios numbered. Wanting 2G 2
    (? blank). Printer’s address to the reader. Arguments. This is the
    true second edition, the third equally bearing the words ‘nowe the
    seconde time imprinted’. See Prof. Skeat’s edition (1886), vol. II,
    p. lxxv.

     Sinker 211. BM 1235.

LA RAMÉE, PIERRE.

Petri Rami Basilea ad Senatum Populumque Basiliensem. Anno. M. D. LXXI.

   4^o. (8¾ × 6¼). M. 2. 3.

     Collation: a-d⁴e², paged. Supposed to have been printed at
     Lausanne by Joannes Probus, who printed the author’s ‘Defensio pro
     Aristotele’ the same year.

LATHAM, SIMON.

Lathams Falconry or The Faulcons Lure, and Cure: in two bookes. The First, concerning the ordering
and training vp of all Hawkes in generall; especially the Haggard Faulcon Gentle. The second,
teaching approued medicines for the cure of all Diseases in them. Gathered by long practice
and experience, and published for the delight of noble mindes, and instruction of young Faulconers
in things pertaining to this Princely Art. By Simon Latham. Gent. [Woodcut.] Printed at London
by I. B. for R. Iackson, and are to be sold at his shop neere Fleet-street Conduit. 1615.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 23. Address to the reader.
     Commendatory verses signed T. A. Glossary. Errata. Acrostic on the
     author’s name. Table of contents. Introduction. First edition.

   BM 930.

Lathams new and second Booke of Falconry; concerning the ordering and training vp of all such
Hawkes as was omitted or left vnmentioned in his printed Booke of the Haggard Falcon and Gerfalcon,
namely the Goshawke and Tassell, with the Sparhawke, the Lanner and Lanueret, as they are diuided
in their generation: the Hobby and Marlyn in their kindes: Teaching approued Medicines for
all such infirmities and diseases as are incident to them. Published for the delight of Noble
mindes, and instruction of yong Falconers in all things pertaining to this Art. [Woodcut.]
At London Printed by I. B. for Roger Iackson, and are to bee sold at his shop neere Fleet Conduit.
1618.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 23. 1.

     With another titlepage preceding, ornamented with various cuts and
     bearing the author’s name in full ‘By Symon Latham, Gent.’.
     Collation: four leaves unsigned, A⁴a⁴B-V⁴, paged. Wanting first
     and last leaves (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to Sir Patrick Hume,
     master falconer to King James, signed: S. L. Author’s address to
     the reader, and acknowledgment to ‘the right worshipfull maister
     Henrie Sadler of Euerly, who was my first and louing maister’.
     Commendatory verses, signed T. A. Table of contents. Text with
     woodcuts. Epilogue, by ‘a worthy Devine, S. I.’ First edition. The
     two parts were reprinted together in 1633.

   BM 930.

LAZARILLO DE TORMES.

The plesant Historie of Lazarillo de Tormes a Spaniarde, wherein is conteined his marueilous
deeds and life. With the Strange aduentures happened to him in the seruice of sundry maisters.
Drawne out of Spanish by Dauid Rouland of Anglesey. Accuerdo, Oluid. London Printed by Abell
Ieffes, dwelling in the Blacke Fryers neere Puddle Wharfe. 1596.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7⅝ × 5¾). Q. 14. 5.

     The device on the titlepage is that of Roger Ward, his initials
     being however omitted. Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Epistle
     dedicatory to Sir Thomas Gressam [sic], signed. On the last leaf
     are some verses ‘To the Reader’ signed G. Turbervile Gent. The
     first edition is supposed to have appeared in 1576 but of this no
     copy is now known. A second was published in 1586. The present is
     the third.

   Sinker 676. BM 1501.

LE FÈVRE, RAOUL.

The ancient Historie of the destruction of Troy. Conteining the Founders and foundation of
the sayde Citie, with the causes and manner of the first and second spoyles and sacking thereof
by Hercules and his followers: and the third and last vtter desolation and ruine, effected
by Menelaus, and all the notable Worthies of Greece. Here also are mentioned the rising and
flourishing of sundry Kings with their Realmes, as also the decay and ouerthrow of diuers others.
Besides many admirable, and most rare exploites of Chiualrie, and Martiall Prowesse, effected
by valourous Knights, with incredible euents, compassed for, and through the Loue of Ladies.
Translated out of French into English, by W. Caxton. Newly corrected, and the English much
amended. The fifth Edition. London, Printed by Barnard Alsop, 1617.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7 × 5). S. 9.

     Collation: A⁴=A=-2=T=⁸, paged. A 1 blank. Printer’s address to the
     reader. Three books, each with Table of contents at the end, and
     the second and third having separate titlepages with same imprint.
     A copy of Latin verses before Table of Bk. III. Translated by
     Caxton from the French of Raoul le Fèvre. The first edition under
     the title of the ‘recuyell of the historyes of Troye’ was printed
     by Caxton at Bruges c. 1475.

   BM 1512.

LESINA, COMPAGNIA DELLA.

La Lesina Dialogo, Capitoli, & Ragionamenti. Della celeberrima Compagnia de’ Lesinanti. Con
alcune piaceuoli Dicerie in lode di detta Compagnia, & altre Compositioni nel medesimo genere.
Stampata per Ordine de gli otto Operaij di detta Compagnia. 1601.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 6.

     Collation: A-D⁸, paged. List of ‘Vfficiali della Compagnia delle
     Lesine’. Epistle from M. Quancunque Spillaccheri to M. Vnguento da
     Cancheri ‘In lode della Compagnia delle Lesine’. The ‘Dialogo’ is
     ascribed in the heading to M. Giuntino Fulignati. An edition had
     already appeared in 1590.

La Vera Regola per mantenersi magro, Con pochissima Spesa. Scritta da M. Spilorcion de’ Stitichi,
Correttor della nobilissima Compagnia delle Lesine. A messer Agocchion Spontato suo Compare.
Opera vtilissima per tutti coloro, che patiscono strettezza di borsa. Di Giulio Cesare della
Croce. In Ferrara. Per Vittorio Baldini, MDCI. Con licenza de’ Superiuri [sic]. [Colophon]
In Pavia, & ristampata in Torino, Appresso Gio. Michele Cauallerij. 1598. Con licenza de Superiori.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 7.

     Collation: D⁴A^16B²0, paged. ‘Capitolo’. List of ‘Vfficiali della
     compagnia della Bastina.’ ‘Commento di sodesco cavezza Nel prefato
     Soneto.’ ‘Capitoli da osservarsi Asinissimamente. Dalli Brigati
     della Bastina. Descritti da Messer Ragghiante Basticci Tesoriero
     delle Asinerie.’ Followed by prose and verse by members of the
     society. The colophon is followed by two pages of woodcuts.

LINDSAY, Sir DAVID.

A Dialogue between Experience and a Courtier, of the miserable state of the Worlde. Compiled
in the Scottish tung by Syr Dauid Lindsey Knight, a man of great learning and science: First
turned and made perfect Englishe: And now the seconde time corrected and amended according
to the first Copie. A worke very pleasant and profitable for all Estates, but chiefly for Gentlemen,
and such as are in aucthoritie. Herevnto also are annexed certain other workes inuented by
the saide Knight, as may more at large appeare in a Table following. Imprinted at London, in
Newgate Market within the New Rentes, by Thomas Purfoote. An. Dom. 1581.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7½ × 5½). R. 2.

     Collation: four leaves, the second signed (ij.), A-S⁸T⁴, folios
     numbered. Epistle to the reader. Verses to the buyer. Table of
     contents. Prologue and four books of the ‘Monarch’. Really the
     third English edition, previous ones having appeared in 1566 and
     1575. The original Scots version was published by John Skot at St
     Andrews, c. 1552.

   Sinker 371. BM 957.

LODGE, THOMAS.

The Diuel coniured. London Printed by Adam Islip for William Mats, dwelling in Fleetstreet
at the sign of the Hand and Plough. Anno 1596.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5½). Q. 13. 5.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Sir Iohn Fortescue, signed T. L. (i.e. Thomas
     Lodge). Address to the reader, signed T. L.

   Sinker 788. BM 920.
Fetcht from the Canaries, by T. L. Gent. Imprinted at London for Iohn
Smethwick, and are to be sold at his shop in Saint Dustanes [sic]
Churchyard in Fleetstreet vnder the Dyall. 1612.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7½ × 5½). Q. 13. 2.

     Collation: A-O⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to Lord Hunsdon
     (i.e. George Carey, second lord, ob. 1603), signed by the
     author Thomas Lodge. Address to the readers, signed T. L. Euphues’
     testament. At the end postscript, signed. This edition, the sixth,
     bears the original title of 1590; several were published under the
     better known one of ‘Rosalynde’.

   BM 1011. 1623.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5⅞). Q. 14. 1.

     Collation etc. as above. Wanting O 4. Eighth edition.

Euphues Shadow, the Battaile of the Sences. Wherein youthfull folly is set downe in his right
figure, and vaine fancies are prooued to produce many offences. Hereunto is annexed the Deafe
mans Dialogue, contayning Philamis Athanatos: fit for all sortes to peruse, and the better
sorte to practise. By T. L. Gent. London Printed by Abell Ieffes, for Iohn Busbie, and are
to be sould at his shop in Paules Churchyard, neere to the West doore of Paules. 1592.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅜ × 5½). Q. 13. 3.

     Collation: A-N⁴, unpaged. A 1 blank except for signature. Epistle
     dedicatory to Robert Ratcliffe, Viscount Fitzwaters, signed by
     Robert Greene, who purports to be seeing through the press the work
     of ‘one M. Thomas Lodge, who nowe is gone to sea with Mayster
     Candish’. Address to the readers signed by the same. Philautus’
     address to his sons. The ‘Dialogue’ begins on L3^v.

   Sinker 675. BM 1011.

¦Phillis: Honoured with Pastorall Sonnets, Elegies, and amorous delights. Where-vnto is annexed,
the tragicall complaynt of Elstred.

   Iam Phœbus disiungit equos, iam Cinthia iungit.

At London, Printed for Iohn Busbie, and are to be sold at his shoppe, at the West-doore of
Paules, 1593.¦

   4^o. (7½ × 5½). Q. 13. 1.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Wanting sig. A, A 1 blank (?), the rest
     containing titlepage, epistle dedicatory to the Countess of
     Shrewsbury signed by the author Tho: Lodge, and ‘Induction’ in
     verse; also B 1 (? blank, likewise wanting in BM copy). Ornament at
     foot of each page. ‘The complaint of Elstred’ begins at sig. H 4.

   Sinker 756. BM 1011.

Wits Miserie, and the Worlds Madnesse: Discouering the Deuils Incarnat of this Age. London,
Printed by Adam Islip, and are to be sold by Cuthbert Burby, at his shop by the Roiall-Exchange.
1596.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5½). Q. 13. 4.

     Collation: A-P⁴, paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle dedicatory
     to Nicholas and John Hare from the author, Thomas Lodge, dated,
     Low-Laiton, Nov. 5, 1596. Address to the reader signed T. L.

   Sinker 787. BM 1012.

LOMBARDI, BERNARDINO.

L’Alchimista Comedia di M. Bernardino Lombardi Comico Confidente. Nuouamente Ristampata. In
Venetia, MDCII. Appresso Lucio Spineda.

   12^o. (5¼ × 2¾). *. 14.

     Collation: A-I^{12}, folios numbered. I 12 blank. Epistle
     dedicatory to Giulio Pallavicino, signed and dated, Ferrara, May
     20, 1583. Personae. At the end, three sonnets to G. Pallavicino (or
     Pallavicini), one by Gio. Donato Cucchetti, one ‘D’Incerto’, and
     one by Lombardi. The present edition appears to be the third, the
     first having appeared in 1583.

LOVERS.

The Fortunate, the Deceiv’d, and the Unfortunate Lovers. Three Excellent New Novels, Containing
Many Pleasant and Delightful Histories. The like never in any Language before. Printed in English
and French, For the Satisfaction of the Ingenious. Written by the Wits of both Nations. London,
Printed for William Whitwood in Duck-Lane, 1685.

   8^o. (6⅞ × 4¼). U. 3.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned, 2 leaves signed A, B-M⁸; A-I⁸K²;
     A-F⁸G⁴, each part paged separately. Engraved titlepage with
     verses facing printed titlepage. Address ‘Au Lecteur’. Same in
     English. Eight novels in each part.

LUCANUS, MARCUS ANNÆUS.

Lucans Pharsalia: or the civill Warres of Rome, betweene Pompey the great, and Iulius Cæsar.
The whole tenne Bookes, Englished by Thomas May, Esquire. The second Edition, corrected, and
the Annotations inlarged by the Author. London, Printed by Aug. Mathewes, for Thomas Iones,
and are to be sold at his shop in St. Dunstanes Church-yard. 1631.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3½). Z. 9. 1.

     Collation: a⁸, with engraved titlepage inserted after a 1,
     A-S⁸T², unpaged. Engraved titlepage, signed Fridericus Hulsius,
     with explanatory verses opposite, followed by regular titlepage.
     Epistle dedicatory to William, Earl of Devonshire, signed by the
     translator. Life of Lucan. Commendatory verses from Ben. Ionson and
     I. Vaughan. Annotations at the end of each of the ten books. Books
     i-iii appeared in 1626; the complete work, of which the present is
     the second edition, in 1627. An earlier translation by Sir Arthur
     Gorges had appeared in 1614, and Marlowe’s translation of Book i.
     as early as 1600.

   BM 1026.

LYDGATE, JOHN.

The auncient Historie and onely trewe and syncere Cronicle of the warres betwixte the Grecians
and the Troyans, and subsequently of the fyrst euercyon of the auncient and famouse Cytye of
Troye vnder Lamedon the king, and of the laste and fynall destruction of the same vnder Pryam,
wrytten by Daretus a Troyan and Dictus a Grecian both souldiours and present in all the sayde
warres and digested in Latyn by the lerned Guydo de Columpnis and sythes translated in to englyshe
verse by Iohn Lydgate Moncke of Burye. And newly imprinted. An. M.D.L.V. [Colophon] Imprinted
at London, in Fletestrete at the sygne of the Princes armes, by Thomas Marshe. Anno. do. M.D.L.V.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11⅛ × 7¾). F. 15.

     Title within elaborate woodcut border of the genealogies of the
     Houses of York and Lancaster (as in E. Halle’s ‘Union of York and
     Lancaster’ q.v.). Collation: A²B-2C⁶2D-E⁴, unpaged. ‘The
     pistle to the reader’, signed by the editor, Robert Braham. The
     signature has been printed ‘Quod Robert Braham’ and an ornament has
     then been stamped over the ‘Quod’. Translator’s prologue in verse.
     Books i-v. Verses to Henry V. ‘Lenvoye’ and ‘Verba translatoris ad
     librum suum’ in verse. Table of contents. Lydgate’s ‘Troy-book’ is
     a verse rendering of the prose ‘Historia Destructionis Troiæ’
     written in Latin by Guido delle Colonne. This is in its turn based
     on the French ‘Roman de Troie’ by Benoît de Sainte-More, the chief
     sources of which are the ‘De Excidio Troiæ’ the reputed work of
     Dares Phrygius, which may have been then extant in a fuller version
     than we now possess, and the ‘Ephemeris Belli Trojani’ which goes
     under the name of Dictys Cretensis. An earlier edition of Lydgate’s
     work had appeared from R. Pynson’s press in 1513.

   Sinker 307. BM 448.

Here begynneth the boke of Iohan Bochas / discryuing the fall of prĩces / princesses / and
other nobles: Translated in to Englysshe by Iohn Lydgate monke of Bury / begynning at Adam
and Eue / and endyng with kyng Iohan of Fraunce / taken prisoner at Poyters by prince Edwarde.
[Woodcut.] [Colophon] Imprinted at London in flete strete by Richarde Pynson / printer vnto
the kynges moste noble grace / & fynisshed the .xxi. day of Februarye / the yere of our lorde
god .M .CCCCC .xxvii.

   =B. L.= F^o. (10½ × 7¾). G. 2.

     Collation: a⁶A-X⁶2A-2O⁶2P⁸, folios numbered. Table of
     contents. Translator’s prologue in verse. Nine books, with
     woodcuts. Verses of the translator at the end. The work is a verse
     rendering of Boccaccio’s ‘De Casibus Virorum Illustrium’ (prose).
     Pynson published an edition of the work as early as 1494; the
     present is the second.

   Sinker 32. BM 239.

LYLY, JOHN.

Euphues. The Anatomy of Wyt. Very pleasant for all Gentlemen to reade, and most necessary to
remember: wherin are contained the delights that Wyt followeth in his youth by the pleasauntnesse
of Loue, and the happynesse he reapeth in age, by the perfectnesse of Wisedome. By Iohn Lylly
Master of Arte. Oxon. Imprinted at London for Gabriell Cawood, dwelling in Paules Church-yarde.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 4⅞). R. 17. 1.

     Collation: A⁴B-E⁸F-T⁴, folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to
     William West, Lord Delaware, signed I. Lyly. Address to the
     readers. At the end is a device of a sable horse (as crest) charged
     with a crescent of difference encircled by the motto ‘Mieulx vault
     mourir ẽ vertu que vivre en honcte’. This is the device of Th.
     East. The text of this edition presents peculiarities, which, as
     Dr Sinker has shown, prove it to be the first. Having been entered
     to Cawood in the S. R. Dec. 2, 1578, it probably appeared about the
     close of the year. Two further editions appeared in 1579, viz.
     the second (undated) the only known copy of which is also in the
     library (v1^a. 4. 14 (2) imperfect) and that (dated) represented by
     the Malone and Morley copies. For particulars see Bond’s ‘Lyly’
     (Oxford, 1902) vol. i. p. 85 etc.

   Sinker 547. BM 953.

MALORY, Sir THOMAS. Newly refined, and published for the delight, and profit of the Reader.
London, Printed by William Stansby, for Iacob Bloome, 1634.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5⅜). S. 1.

     Three Parts, each with separate titlepage and signatures distinct.
     Collation: Part I, ¶⁴§⁴A-2I⁴; Pt. II, 2 leaves unsigned,
     ¶⁴A-2Q⁴2R²; Pt. III, ¶⁴[2]¶⁴A-2P⁴; unpaged. Wanting 2R2
     in Pt. II (? blank). Each part has the same woodcut of the Round
     Table and list of knights facing the titlepage, and a Table of
     contents. Part I has also a Preface, and a Prologue, besides
     Caxton’s address to the reader. The first edition was printed by
     Caxton in 1485.

   BM 56.

MALESPINI, CELIO.

Ducento Nouelle Del Signor Celio Malespini, nelle quali si raccontano diuersi Auuenimenti così
lieti, come mesti & strauaganti. Con tanta copia di sentenze graui, di scherzi, e motti, Che
non meno sono profitteuoli nella prattica del viuere humane, che molto grati, e piaceuoli ad
vdire. Con Licenza de’ Superiori, & Priuilegio. In Venetia, MDCIX. Al Segno dell’Italia.

   4^o. (7½ × 5½). Q. 6-7.

     Collation: Part I, *⁸A-2L⁸2M^{10}; Part II, a-2p⁸2q⁴;
     folios numbered in each part separately. 2M 10 blank. Part II has a
     separate head-title.

MANZOLLI, PIETRO ANGELO.

The Zodiake of Life Written by the Godly and zealous Poet Marcellus Pallingenius stellatus,
wherein are conteyned twelue Bookes disclosing the haynous Crymes & wicked vices of our corrupt
nature: And plainlye declaring the pleasaunt and perfit pathway vnto eternall lyfe, besides
a numbre of digressions both pleasaunt & profitable, Newly translated into Englishe verse by
Barnabæ Googe. Probitas laudatur & alget. Imprinted at London by Henry Denham, for Rafe Newberye
dwelling in Fleete streate. Anno. 1565. Aprilis. 18.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5⅜ × 3¾). *. 4. 1.

     Collation: *⁸‡⁴A-Y⁸2A-2X⁸2Y⁴, unpaged.
     Coat of arms with initials B. G. (i.e. Barnabe Googe).
     Commendatory verses, from Gilbertus Duke, Christoferus Carlilus,
     Iacobus Itzuertus, G. Chatertonus, David Bellus, Richardus
     Stephanus, all in Latin except the last, which is in Greek with
     Latin translation. Epistle dedicatory to Sir William Cecill, signed
     by the translator. Address to the reader. Errata. Palingenius was
     the pseudonym under which Manzolli wrote. Books i-iii of the
     translation appeared in 1560, books i-vi in 1561; the present is
     the first edition of the complete work.

   Sinker 331. BM 1189.

MARLOWE, CHRISTOPHER.

Hero And Leander.... 1637. See MUSÆUS.

MARNIX, PHILIP VAN.

¦The Bee Hiue of the Romish Church. A worke of all good Catholikes to be read, and most necessary
to bee vnderstood. Wherein the Catholike Religion is substantially confirmed, and the Heretikes
finely fetcht ouer the coales. Translated into English by George Gilpin the Elder. 1. Thes.
5. 21. Proue all things, and keepe that which is good. London. Printed by Iohn Dawson. 1623.¦

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5¼ × 3½). *. 11.

     Collation: *-2*⁸¶-4¶⁸5¶²A-2X⁸2Y², folios numbered. Wanting
     all before 2¶ and after 2V 1. Epistle dedicatory to Philip Sidney
     Esquire, signed John Stell. Address to the reader signed by the
     same. ‘Interpretation of the Epistle of Master Gentian Haruet,’
     signed Isaac Rabbotenu (i.e. Philip von Marnix van Sant
     Aldgonde.) Epistle dedicatory to Franciscus Sonnius signed Isaac
     Rabbotenu of Louen, and dated Jan. 5, 1569. Argument. One leaf
     blank (?). Table of authors quoted. Table of doctrines. At the end
     of the second Table is the note ‘Gathered by Abraham Fleming.’ Six
     books of the exposition of the ‘Epistle of Gentian Haruet’ followed
     by twelve chapters of additional exposition and a postscript to the
     reader headed ‘The locke of this Booke’ occupying the verso of the
     last leaf. The present copy begins in the middle of the first Table
     and ends in the ‘conclusion’ to the sixth book.

   BM 1281.

MASSINGER, PHILIP.

The Excellent Comedy, called The Old Law: or A new way to please you. By Phil. Massinger. Tho.
Middleton. William Rowley. Acted before the King and Queene at Salisbury House, and at severall
other places, with great Applause. Together with an exact and perfect Catalogue of all the
Playes, with the Authors Names, and what are Comedies, Tragedies, Histories, Pastoralls, Masks,
Interludes, more exactly Printed then ever before. London, Printed for Edward Archer, at the
signe of the Adam and Eve, in Little Britaine. 1656.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 18. 4.

     Collation: A²B-K⁴L²a-b⁴, paged. Personae. At the end the
     catalogue of plays, occupying the last two sheets.

MASSUCCIO, Salernitano.

Le cinquanta Nouelle di Massuccio Salernitano intitolate il Nouellino nuouamente con somma
diligentia reuiste corrette et stampate. Dissimilium infida societas.

   8^o. (6⅝ × 4). U. 4.

     Collation: A-V⁸X^{10}, paged. Table on last page. The titlepage
     bears the cat and mouse device of M. Sessa with his initials.
     Otherwise there is no indication of date, place or printer. The
     first edition appeared in 1476.

MAY, THOMAS.

Lucans Pharsalia.... 1631. See LUCANUS, Marcus Annæus.

A Continuation of Lucan’s Historicall Poem till the death of Iulius Cæsar By T M London Printed
for James Boler at the Signe of the Marigold in Pauls Church-yard, 1630.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3½). Z. 9. 2.

     Titlepage engraved by T. Cockson. Collation: A-K⁸, unpaged. A 1
     and 2 and K 8 blank. Epistle dedicatory to Charles I, signed Tho.
     May. Commendatory verses from Iohannes Sulpitius Verulanus. (Lat.)
     ‘The Complaint of Calliope’ in verse. Annotation at the end of each
     of the seven books. First edition. A later edition bears the date
     1567 by misprint for 1657.

   BM 1085.

MEAN TO DIE WELL.

[Running title] A Meane to dye wel. [Colophon] Imprinted at London in Fletestrete at the sygne
of the George nexte to saynt Dunstones churche by Wyllyam Myddleton.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5⅜ × 3⅝). *. 4. 2.

    Collation: A-B⁸(?), unpaged. A fragment consisting of B 1 (signed)
    and the corresponding leaf, presumably B 8. The text ends on the
    recto of the second leaf with the words ‘[*] By your louer ĩ
    almighty god for whome I beseche you to say, Iesu have mercy vpõ
    my soule. [bu] AMEN.’ The verso is occupied by the colophon and the
    larger of Middleton’s devices. The fragment which is unidentified,
    apparently formed part of the binding of the volume, which also
    contains a fragment of a musical MS on vellum.

   Sinker 1077.

MELA, POMPONIUS.

The worke of Pomponius Mela, The Cosmographer, concerninge the Situation of the world, wherein
euery parte, is deuided by it selfe in most perfect manner, as appeareth in the Table at the
ende of the booke. A booke right plesant and profitable for all sortes of men: but speciallie
for Gentlemen, Marchants, Mariners, and Trauellers, translated out of Latine By Arthur Golding
Gentleman. At London, Printed for Thomas Hacket, and are to be sold at his shop in Lumbert
streete, vn- [sic] the signe of the Popes head. 1585.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 1. 4.

     Collation: A⁴C-O⁴, paged. A 1 blank but for signature. Epistle
     dedicatory to William, Lord Burleigh, signed by the translator, and
     dated Febr. 6, 1584. Table of contents at end.

   Sinker 346. BM 1088.

MERES, FRANCIS.

Palladis Tamia. Wits Treasury Being the Second part of Wits Common wealth. By Francis Meres
Maister of Artes of both Vniuersities. Viuitur ingenio, cætera mortis erunt. At London Printed
by P. Short, for Cuthbert Burbie, and are to be solde at his shop at the Royall Exchange. 1598.

   8^o. (5 × 3⅛). *. 16.

     Collation: A⁴B-2V⁸, folios numbered. List of authors. At the end,
     alphabetical table of headings. In this copy the list of authors,
     occupying leaves A 2-4, is misplaced at the end of the volume. The
     famous ‘comparatiue discourse of our English Poets, with the
     Greeke, Latine, and Italian Poets’ occurs at sig. 2N 7. First
     edition. ‘Wits Common wealth’ of which the present work purports to
     be the continuation, was written by John Bodenham.

   Sinker 775. BM 1093.

MERRY DEVIL OF EDMONTON.

The merry Deuill of Edmonton. As it hath beene sundry times Acted, by his Maiesties Seruants,
at the Globe, on the banke-side. London Printed by Henry Ballard for Arthur Johnson, dwelling
at the signe of the white-horse in Paules Churchyard, ouer against the great North doore of
Paules. 1608.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5). R. 23. 5.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Prologue. First
     edition. No other copy recorded.
1617.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5). T. 8. 1.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Prologue. Third
     edition, the second having appeared in 1612.

   BM 517.

The Merry Deuill of Edmonton. 1626.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). T. 7. 5.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Prologue. Fourth
     edition. 1631.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 30. 2.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Prologue. Fifth
     edition.

   BM 517.

The Merry Devil of Edmonton. As it hath been sundry times Acted, by His Majesties Servants
at the Globe on Bank side. [Woodcut.] London, Printed for William Gilbertson, and are to be
sold at his Shop, at the Sign of the Bible in Giltspur-street without N¦ewgate. 1655.¦

   4^o. (7 × 4⅞). S. 35. 5.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Titlepage folded
     in. Prologue. Sixth edition.

MILTON, JOHN.

A Maske presented At Ludlow Castle, 1634: On Michael-masse night, before the Right Honorable,
Iohn Earle of Bridgewater, Vicount Brackly, Lord Præsident of Wales, And one of His Maiesties
most honorable Privie Counsell. 1637.

   4^o. (7⅜ × 5¾). Q. 14. 3.

     Collation: A²B-E⁴F², paged. Epistle dedicatory to the young
     Viscount Bracly, signed H. Lawes. Personae at end. This, the only
     separate edition of ‘Comus’, was published with Milton’s consent by
     his friend Lawes, the composer.

   BM 1027.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅜). S. 10.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, A-2T⁴2V², unpaged. The first
     edition, with Lowndes’ first titlepage (Bohn). The poem begins on A
     1. It was not divided into twelve books till the second edition.
     The second titlepage differs in having the author’s name in smaller
     type.

Paradise lost. A Poem in ten Books. The Author J. M. Licensed and Entred according to Order.
London Printed, and are to be sold by Peter Parker under Creed Church neer Aldgate; And by
Robert Boulter at the Turks Head in Bishopsgate-street; And Matthias Walker, under St. Dunstons
Church in Fleet-street, 1668.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 11.

[Another copy.]

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 12.

     Both copies of the first edition, having Lowndes’ third titlepage.
     Except for the alterations observable in the transcript, the
     titlepage has been printed from the same setting up of the type as
     the first, the rules round the title are however new. A fourth
     titlepage also bearing the date 1668 was printed by S. Simmons and
     has four rows of fleurs-de-lis under the author’s name. Of the
     fifth and sixth titlepages recorded in Bohn’s Lowndes no copies are
     known. The second of the above copies has the heraldic bookplate of
     Rob. Hodges, Fellow of Pembroke (1703). 1669.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 14.

     Collation: A⁴a⁴A etc. as before. Titlepage on A 1. Printer’s
     address to the Reader, signed S. Simmons. (5 lines.) Arguments to
     the ten books. Note on the verse. Errata. Text as before. This is
     again the first edition with addition of preliminary matter, and
     has Lowndes’ seventh titlepage.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 13.

     Collation as above. No printer’s address to the reader and
     preliminary matter reset. The first edition with Lowndes’ eighth
     titlepage. This was printed from an entirely new setting of the
     type. It may be distinguished from the seventh by the commas after
     ‘Helder’ and ‘Brittain’ and by having ‘Angel’ in italic in place of
     roman type; also by having a reversed ‘p’ for the ‘d’ in
     ‘Paradise’. On an inserted leaf at the beginning is the
     inscription: ‘M^r. Hollis desires the favor of M^r. Payne to
     present this Copy, unless it should prove a duplicate, to M^r.
     Capel. Pall Mall mar. 18.

   8^o. (6½ × 4¼). W. 4.

     Collation: Portrait unsigned, A⁴B-Y⁸, paged. Y 8 blank. Portrait
     engraved by W. Dolle. Commendatory verses, signed: S. B. M. D.,
     A. M. Note on the verse. The arguments are prefixed to the several
     books. This is the second edition, in which the poem first appeared
     divided into twelve books.

Paradise Regain’d. A Poem. In IV Books. To which is added Samson Agonistes. The Author John
Milton. London, Printed by J. M. for John Starkey at the Mitre in Fleetstreet, near Temple-Bar.
MDCLXXI.

   8^o. (7 × 4½). S. 15.

     Collation: A²B-O⁸P⁴, paged. Licence, dated July 2, 1670, on leaf
     preceding titlepage. ‘Samson’ has a separate titlepage with same
     imprint on I 1, and fresh pagination. Note on Tragedy. Argument.
     Personae. At the end is an omitted passage and errata. First
     edition.

Poems, &c. upon Several Occasions. Dring at the Blew Anchor next Mitre Court over against Fetter
Lane in Fleet-street. 1673.

   8^o. (6½ × 4¼). W. 3. 1.

     Collation: A⁴A-S⁸, paged. Wants S 7 and 8 containing part of
     the advertisement of books. Table of English Poems. Table of Latin
     Poems. Errata. English Poems. Nunc
     primum Edita. Londini, Excudebat W. R. Anno 1673’, i.e. the Latin
     Poems, with separate titlepage and fresh pagination but signatures
     continuous, and preceded by an address to the reader in Latin.
     Tractate of Education with pagination continuous with Latin Poems.
     Advertisement of books at end. This is the second edition of the
     ‘Poems’, of which there were two issues in the same year, the
     earlier bearing the White Lion as the sign of the stationer. The
     first edition of the poems both English and Latin appeared in 1645.

MINIATORE, BARTOLOMEO.

Formulario ottimo et elegante, ilquale insegna il modo del scriuere lettere messiue & respõsiue,
cõ tutte le mansioni sue a li gradi de le persone conueneuoli. Et oltra di cio alcune nuoue
& breuissime Orationi a diuersi Ambasciatori, de Prencipi attissime & necessarie, & di nuouo
corrette. [Colophon] Stampato in Vinegia per Giouanni Andrea detto Guadagnino, & Florio fratello
de Vauassere. Nel anno del nostro Signore. M D XLIIII.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 4.

     Collation: A-F⁸, unpaged. ‘Littera d’amore ... ad vna tua
     amorosa.’ ‘Proemio’ from ‘Bartholomeo miniator’ to Hercole Estense
     (Ercole d’Este) duke of Ferrara. The first edition of the
     collection appeared in 1506, an enlarged one in 1531.

MIRROR FOR MAGISTRATES.

A Mirrour for Magistrates. Wherein maye be seen by example of other, with howe greuous plages
vices are punished: and howe frayle and vnstable worldly prosperity is founde, even of those
whom Fortune seemeth most highly to fauour. Fælix quem faciunt aliena pericula cautum. Anno.
1563. Imprinted at London in Fletestrete nere to Saynct Dunstans Churche by Thomas Marshe.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 13.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation: [bu]⁴A⁴B-N⁸O-V⁴X-Z⁸
    2A-2B⁸2C⁴, folios numbered. Epistle “To the Nobilitie” etc.,
    signed William Baldwin. Prose address to the reader by the same.
    Part ii begins, with head-title, at sig. L 2, and another address to
    the reader by Baldwin. Table of contents and list of errata at the
    end. Part i had appeared in 1559; this second extant edition is the
    first containing Part ii. Part i contains nineteen legends; Part ii
    eight legends, besides Sackville’s ‘Induction’ to his legend of
    Buckingham. The original edition of the ‘Mirror’ was printed by J.
    Wayland probably in 1554 or 1555 at the end of his edition of
    Lydgate’s ‘Falls of Princes’. The publication was stayed and the
    title only has survived. The first edition actually published was
    that of 1558, which contains Part i only. The contributors to the
    collection were William Baldwin (the editor), George Ferrers, Sir
    Thomas Chaloner, ---- Caryl, and John Skelton, in Part i; George
    Ferrers, Thomas Sackville Earl of Dorset, Thomas Churchyard, Francis
    Segars, and John Dolman, in Part ii; while nine legends are
    anonymous. For the authorship of the individual legends, see Mr W.
    F. Trench’s dissertation on the ‘Mirror’ (1898): the ascriptions
    given in the British Museum catalogue are mostly erroneous. In the
    later editions initials were frequently placed at the end of the
    legends to indicate the authorship, but in many cases they are wrong
    and in all want authority.

   Sinker 310. BM 91.

A Myrrour for Magistrates, Wherein may be seene by examples passed in this realme, with howe
greueous plagues, vyces are punished in great princes and magistrates, and how frayle and vnstable
worldly prosperity is founde, where Fortune seemeth moste highly to fauour. Newly corrected
and augmented. Anno 1571. Fœlix quem faciunt aliena pericula cautum. Jmprinted at London by
Thomas Marshe dwellynge in Fleetstreete, neare vnto S. Dũstanes Churche. [Colophon adds] 1571.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7½ × 5¼). R. 3.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: *⁴A⁴B-V⁸X⁴, folios
     numbered. Epistle ‘To al the Nobility’ etc., signed W. B. Table of
     contents. Baldwin’s address to the reader. This is a reprint of the
     1563 edition; the order of the legends is altered, and in many
     cases the authors’ names or initials appended. It is not divided
     into parts. In the Table appear legends of Duke Humphrey, and the
     Duchess of Gloucester, but they are not found in the book. One
     legend on these characters had similarly appeared in the Table in
     the 1559 edition. This is the third extant edition of the legends
     which originally formed Part i.

   Sinker 318. BM 91.

The first parte of the Mirour for Magistrates, containing the falles of the first infortunate
Princes of this lande: From the comming of Brute to the incarnation of our sauiour and redemer
Iesu Christe. Ad Romanos. 13. 2. Quisquis se opponit potestati, Dei ordinationi resistit. Imprinted
at London by Thomas Marshe. Anno. 1574. Cum Priuilegio.

   =B.L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5½). Q. 10. 1.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: *⁶A-I⁸K², folios
     numbered. Table of contents. Epistle ‘To the nobilitie’ etc.,
     signed by the author, Iohn Higgins. Prose address to the reader by
     the same. This is an entirely new work, dealing with the early
     history and therefore entitled the ‘First Part’. It contains
     seventeen legends, one being added at the end which is not among
     the sixteen mentioned in the Table. The former ‘Mirror’ was
     reprinted in this year, one legend enlarged, as ‘The Last Part’
     etc. This ‘First Part’ was reprinted, slightly enlarged, the
     following year; also with ‘The Last Part’.

   Sinker 322. BM 813.

The Mirour for Magistrates, wherin may bee seene, by examples passed in this Realme, with how
greeuous plagues vices are punished in great Princes and Magistrates, and how fraile and vnstable
worldly prosperity is found, where Fortune seemeth most highly to fauour: Newly imprinted,
and with the addition of diuers Tragedies enlarged. At London in Fleetestreete, by Henry Marsh,
being the assigne of Thomas Marsh. 1587. Cum Priuilegio.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 5.

     Title within ornamental border. Collation: A-C⁴=A=-2=M=⁸ (omitting
     =Z=), folios numbered. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Higgins’ epistle ‘To
     the Nobility’ etc. as in 1574, but here dated, Winceham, December
     7, 1586. Higgins’ address to the reader, and table of contents.
     Commendatory verses by Thomas Newton, dated 1587. ‘The Authors
     Induction.’ Baldwin’s address to the reader at sig. =O=4^v. This
     edition consists of Higgins’ and Baldwin’s collections (‘First’ and
     ‘Last Part’) together. It is the first edition in which the two
     parts are really incorporated into one whole, with signatures
     continuous and a common Table of Contents. It is enlarged from the
     edition of 1575 by the addition of twenty-three legends to Higgins’
     part, and seven to Baldwin’s, making a total of seventy-four,
     Sackville’s ‘Induction’ being here for the first time counted as a
     separate legend.

   Sinker 678. BM 814. At London Imprinted by Felix Kyngston. 1610.

   4^o (7½ × 5½). R. 1.

     Collation: A⁸B²C-3K⁸3L⁶, paged. Higgins’ epistle dated 1586.
     Address to the reader (by R. Niccols, the editor of this edition).
     Table of contents. Commendatory verses by Th. Newton. ‘The Authors
     Induction’. Errata. At the end of Higgins’ portion is added, at
     sig. O 5, but without any fresh title or heading, the legends by
     Thomas Blenerhasset originally published in 1578 as ‘The Second
     Part of the Mirror for Magistrates’. These are signed with the
     author’s name, and stand as legends 41-49 in the Table. The legends
     of Guidericus and Alured however have been omitted. The legend of
     Edricus is also omitted in the Table but appears in the text.
     Baldwin’s portion begins at sig. S 6 with a separate titlepage ‘The
     variable Fortunes and vnhappie Falles of such Princes as hath
     happened since the Conquest’, bearing the same imprint except for
     the date 1609. For Baldwin’s address is substituted a note to the
     reader signed with the editor’s initials, R. N. Sackville’s
     ‘Induction’ is for the first time placed at the beginning instead
     of immediately before the legend of Buckingham. Four legends (James
     I, Richard Duke of Gloucester, James IV, and Flodden) are omitted,
     while at the end is added Drayton’s Legend of Cromwell, which had
     already appeared separately in 1607 and 1609. The editor also added
     two parts of his own. The first of these begins at sig. 2O 3 with a
     separate titlepage, ‘A Winter Nights Vision ... By Richard Niccols,
     Oxon. Mag. Hall’, with the same imprint, dated 1610. This consists
     of an ‘Induction’ and ten legends, with a prose address to the
     reader, and is ornamented with woodcuts. The second begins at sig.
     3E 2 with a separate title ‘Englands Eliza: or the victorious and
     triumphant Reigne of that virgin Empresse of sacred memorie,
     Elizabeth, Queene of England, France and Ireland’, &c., with
     woodcut portrait, again bearing the same imprint, dated 1610. This
     part contains dedicatory verses to Lady Elizabeth Clere, prose
     address to the reader, induction, and the poem itself. This
     edition, the only one after 1587, was re-issued with a new
     titlepage ‘The Falles of Vnfortunate Princes’ in 1619 and again in
     1620.

   BM 814.

MONTAIGNE, MICHEL DE.

The Essayes or, morall, politike, and militarie Discourses of Lord Michael De Montaigne, Knight
Of the noble Order of Saint Michael, and one of the Gentlemen in Ordinary of the French Kings
Chamber. The Third Edition. Whereunto is now newly added an Index of the principall matters
and personages mentioned in this Booke. London, Printed by M. Flesher, for Rich: Royston, in
Ivie-lane next the exchequer office. MDCXXXII.

   F^o. (11⅛ × 7⅛). F. 12.

     Collation: A⁶, with engraved titlepage inserted after A 1, B-3G⁶
     3H⁸3I², paged. Explanatory verses on verso of A 1. Engraved
     titlepage signed Martin Dr[oeshout]. Epistle dedicatory to Anne of
     Denmark signed by the translator, Iohn Florio (leaf signed A2).
     Italian verses to the same signed ‘Il Candido’ (see Florio, ‘World
     of Words’). Address to the reader signed by the translator.
     Commendatory verses to Florio signed Sam. Daniel. Verses
     ‘Concerning the honour of bookes’. Table of contents. Author’s
     address to the reader. Titlepage on A 6, i.e. the second half of
     the sheet containing the verses preceding engraved title. Books ii
     and iii have separate titlepages, the former with imprint ‘London,
     Printed by Miles Flesher, 1631’, the latter ‘London, Printed in the
     yeare MDCXXXI.’. At the end, alphabetical table of contents. In
     the present copy sheet A is so arranged that the printed titlepage
     immediately follows the engraved, an arrangement which may be
     correct, but which necessitates binding the outer and two inner
     sheets of the quire separately. The arrangement proposed above is
     found in another copy in the Library (T. 11. 34).

   BM 1108.

MONTEMAYOR, JORGE DE.

Diana of George of Montemayor: Translated out of Spanish into English by Bartholomew Yong of
the Middle Temple Gentleman. At London, Printed by Edm. Bollifant, Impensis G. B. 1598.

   F^o. (11 × 7¼). F. 11.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: a⁴A-2R⁶2S⁸, paged.
     Epistle dedicatory to Lady Rich, signed by the translator and dated
     High Onger in Essex, Nov. 28, 1598. Preface signed B. Y. Author’s
     epistle dedicatory to Iuan de Castella. Verses to the same.
     Commendatory verses to the author from Gaspar Romani and Hieronymo
     Sant-Perez. Argument and text of the first seven books. The second
     part begins on O 3 with head-title ‘The first Booke of the second
     Part of Diana of George of Montemayor. Written by Alonso Perez.’
     Text of the eight books. The third part begins on 2I 2^v with
     head-title ‘The first Part of Enamoured Diana made by Gaspar Gil
     Polo’. Epistle dedicatory from the author to ‘Doña Maria de Austria
     y fuentes’, dated, Valencia, Feb. 9, 1564. Text of the five books.
     At the end is the note ‘All these three Partes were finished the
     first of May 1583. Boto el amor en Yugo’, followed by errata.

   Sinker 689. BM 1109.

MORE, CRESACRE.

D. O. M. S. The Life and Death of Sir Thomas Moore Lord high Chancellour of England. Written
by M. T. M. and dedicated to the Queens most gracious Maiestie.

   4^o. (7¾ × 5⅞). Q. 2.

    Collation: [mc]⁴A-3H⁴, paged. Wanting V 4, supplied in MS. The
    epistle dedicatory to Henrietta Maria is signed M. C. M. E. (i.e.
    Magister Cresacre More Eboracensis?). The initials on the titlepage
    refer to ‘Mr. Thomas More’, the great-grandson of Sir Thomas, but it
    is more probably the work of his younger brother Cresacre. The book
    was probably printed at Louvain in 1631. On the titlepage some
    biographical details concerning Thomas More are entered in an old
    hand.

   BM 1042.

MORE, Sir THOMAS.

The Life and Death of Sir Thomas Moore. See MORE, Cresacre.

The workes of Sir Thomas More Knyght, sometyme Lorde Chauncellour of England, wrytten by him
in the Englysh tonge. Printed at London at the costes and charges of Iohn Cawod, Iohn Waly,
and Richarde Tottell. Anno 1557. [Colophon] Imprinted at London in Fletestrete at the sygne
of the hande and starre, at the coste and charge of Iohn Cawod, Iohn Walley, and Richarde Tottle.
Finished in Apryll, the yere of our Lorde God. 1557. Cum priuilegio ad imprimendum solum.

   =B. L.= F^o. (11¼ × 7⅜). F. 3.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation:[bu]^{10}[2][bu]⁸a-f⁸ (f2-4
    are signed f.g. ii-iiii) h-2z⁸A-2C⁸, with one leaf signed ❧
    inserted after 2C 5, 2D-2Y⁸2Z⁶, paged. Wanting [bullet]10 and
    2Z⁶ (? blank). Double columns. Epistle dedicatory by the editor,
    ‘Wyllyam Rastell, seriant at lawe’ to Queen Mary. Table of contents.
    Alphabetical table collected by Thomas Paynell. The preliminary
    quire of eight leaves signed [2][bu] contains More’s early poems,
    the remainder of the volume his prose works. The inserted leaf in
    sig. 2C contains an addition addressed to the reader printed on
    recto only.

   Sinker 221. BM 1111. Imprinted at London
by Abraham Vele, dwelling in Pauls churcheyarde at the sygne of the
Lambe. Anno. 1551.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5½ × 3⅝). Z. 8.

     Collation: +⁸A⁴B-R⁸S⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to William
     Cecylle from the translator. Another from Sir Thomas More to Peter
     Giles, First edition of Robinson’s translation.

   Sinker 289. BM 1112.

MUCEDORUS.

A Most pleasant Comedie of Mucedorus the Kings sonne of Valentia, and Amadine the Kings daughter
of Aragon. With the merry conceits of Mouse. Amplified with new additions, as it was acted
before the Kings Maiestie at White-hall on Shroue-sunday night. By his Highnes Seruantes vsually
playing at the Globe. Very delectable, and full of conceited Mirth. Imprinted at London for
William Iones, dwelling neare Holborne Conduit at the signe of the Gunne. 1610.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 30. 3.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Prologue.
     Personae. The first edition appeared in 1598 and it was frequently
     reprinted. Altogether there are sixteen known editions besides two
     doubtful (not included in the numbers given below). The second
     appeared in 1606. The present edition was the third and in it the
     additions first appeared (unless they were included in the doubtful
     edition of 1609).

   BM 1121.

[Another edition.]

   4^o. (7¼ × 5½). R. 23. 7.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 containing titlepage and F 4
     (? blank). Prologue. Personae. This does not agree with any other
     accessible edition. The fourth to tenth editions appeared in 1611,
     1613, 1615, 1619, 1621, 1626, and 1631 respectively (with a
     doubtful edition in 1618). A comparison of the texts shows the
     present to be the eleventh edition, having appeared between those
     of 1631 and 1634. It is therefore probably that of 1629 mentioned
     in the ‘Biographia Dramatica’. Very delectable and full of conceited mirth.
London, Printed for John Wright, and are to be sold at his shop, at the
signe of the Bible in Giltspurre-Street without Newgate. 1639.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5). T. 7. 4.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Prologue.
     Personae, Thirteenth edition, the twelfth having appeared in 1634.

   4^o. (6¾ × 4⅞). T. 8. 6.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Wanting F 4 (? blank). Prologue.
     Personae. Fourteenth edition, having appeared between those of 1639
     and 1663.

A Most pleasant Comedy of Mucedorus The King’s Son of Valentia, and Amadine the King’s Daughter
of Aragon. With the merry Conceits of Mouse. 1668.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5). T. 9. 5.

     Collation: A-F⁴, unpaged. Prologue. Personae. Advertisement of
     books at the end. Sixteenth edition, the fifteenth having appeared
     in 1663.

MUSÆUS.

Hero And Leander: Begun by Christopher Marloe, and finished by George Chapman. Vt Nectar, Ingenium.
London: Printed by N. Okes for William Leake, and are to be sold at his shop in Chancery-lane
neere the Roules. 1637.

   4^o. (8 × 6). P. 2. 3.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to Sir Thomas
     Walsingham signed E. B. (i.e. Edward Blount, the bookseller, who
     published the first edition in 1598).

   BM 1062.

NORTH, Sir THOMAS.

The Dial of Princes.... 1582. See GUEVARA, Antonio de.

The Lives of the noble Grecians and Romanes.... 1579 [and subsequent editions]. See PLUTARCH.

OVERBURY, Sir THOMAS.

A Wife, now a Widowe. 2.

     Collation: A-D⁸, unpaged. Ornament at head and foot of each page.
     Commendatory verses signed: I. F., D. T., C. R., W: Stra:, I. C.,
     X. Z. ‘The Authors Epitaph on the finishing of this his wife.’ This
     is the first edition, and is anonymous.

A Wife. Now the Widdow of Sir Tho: Overburye. Being A most exquisite and singular Poem of the
choise of a Wife.   Hor: car: lib. 3.

The fourth Impression, enlarged with more Characters, than any of the former Editions. London
Printed by G. Eld, for Lawrence Lisle, and are to be sold in Paules Church-yard, at the Tygers
head. 1614.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 36. 6.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Printer’s address to the reader, dated
     May 16, 1614. Commendatory verses signed: I. S. Lincolniensis, G.
     R., T. B., X. Z. ‘Of the choise of a Wife’, verses, unsigned. ‘A
     Wife’ with ‘The Authors Epitaph’ at the end. ‘Characters’ in prose,
     with ‘The Character of a happie life’ in verse by H. W. (i.e. Sir
     Henry Wotton). ‘Newes, from any whence’ in prose, most of the items
     signed with initials: Sr. T. O., Sr. T. R., I. D., A. S., W. S., R.
     B., M^{ris}. B., I. C., R. S. No less than five editions of the
     work were published in 1614, the present, as stated on the
     titlepage, being the fourth. It is doubtful whether the
     ‘Characters’, which first appeared in the second edition, are by
     Overbury.

Sir Thomas Ouerbury his Wife. With addition of many new Elegies vpon his vntimely and much
lamented death. As Also New Newes, and diuers more Characters, (neuer before annexed) written
by himselfe and other learned Gentlemen. The ninth impression augmented. London, Printed by
Edward Griffin for Laurence L’isle, and are to be sold at his shop at the Tigers head in Paules
Churchyard. 1616.

   8^o. (5¼ × 3⅜). *. 6.

     The author’s name is within an ornament. Collation: ¶⁸2¶⁸
     A-R⁸S⁴, unpaged. S 4 blank. Wanting ¶ 1 (? blank). Sheet 2¶ is
     erroneously placed after sheet A. Address to the reader signed by
     the stationer. Commendatory and memorial verses, signed: D. T., C.
     B., W. S., W. B. Int: Temp., B. G. medij Temp., Cap: Tho:
     Gainsford, Io: Fo:, R. Ca., E. G., F. H., R. C., I. F. (two
     copies), D. T. (two copies), X. Z., (one copy unsigned), G. R., W:
     Stra:, ‘Of the choyce of a Wife’ (unsigned), P. B. medij Temp.,
     (three copies unsigned), I. M. Elegy on William Howard, Baron
     Effingham. Elegy on Lady Rutland (usually ascribed to Francis
     Beaumont). ‘A Wife’ in verse, with ornaments at head and foot of
     page; followed by Characters in prose (including ‘The Character of
     a happy life. By Sir H. W[otton] in verse), ‘Certaine Edicts from a
     Parliament in Eutopia; Written by the Lady Southwell’, ‘Newes from
     any whence’, and more ‘Characters’. There were two editions this
     year, both styled the ninth on the titlepage.

   BM 1172.

OVIDIUS NASO, PUBLIUS.

The Heroycall Epistles of the Learned Poet Publius Ouidius Naso, In English Verse: set out
and translated by George Turberuile Gent. with Aulus Sabinus Aunsweres to certaine of the same.
Anno Domini 1567. Imprinted at London, by Henry Denham.

   8^o. (5⅝ × 3¾). Z. 6.

     Collation: A⁸A-V⁸X⁴, folios numbered. Wanting A 1 and X 4 (?
     blank). Epistle dedicatory to Thomas Howard, Viscount Byndon,
     signed by the translator. Verses, ‘The Translator to his Muse’.
     Address to the reader, signed. ‘Epistles’, each preceded by a verse
     Argument. The answers are translated from Angelus, not Aulus,
     Sabinus. At the end are verses headed ‘The Translator to the
     captious sort of Sycophants’. First edition.

   Sinker 333. BM 1173.

Ouidius Naso his Remedie of Loue. Translated and Intituled to the Youth of England.

                      Plautus in Trinummo.
                         ....Mille modis Amor
   Ignorandu’st, procul adhibendus est, at[que] abstinendus.
   Nam qui in Amore precipitauit, peius perit, quam si saxo saliat.

London Printed by T. C. for Iohn Browne, and are to be sold at his shop in Fleetstreet, at
the signe of the Bible. 1600.

   4^o. (7⅜ × 5¼). Q. 14. 2.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Wanting H 4 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to M. I., signed by the translator, F. L. The ‘Remedy of
     Love’ is followed by a translation of Ovid’s epistle of Dido to
     Æneas and an answer from Æneas to Dido. An earlier edition had,
     according to Lowndes, appeared in 1599.

   Sinker 658.

PAINTER, WILLIAM.

¦The Palace of Pleasure Beautified, adorned and wel furnished with Pleasaunt Historyes and
excellent Nouelles, selected out of diuers good and commendable Authours. By William Painter
Clarke of the Ordinaunce and Armarie. 1569. Imprinted at London in Fletestreate neare to S.
Dunstones Church by Thomas Marshe.¦

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅜ × 5½). R. 5.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation: [bu]⁴[2][bu]⁸A-2K⁸,
    folios numbered. Wanting all before B 2 and after 2I 6. This is the
    second edition of the first volume, the first having appeared in
    1566.

   Sinker 316.

The second Tome of the Palace of Pleasure contayning store of goodlye Histories, Tragical matters,
& other Morall argumentes, very requisite for delight and profyte. Chosẽ and selected out of
diuers good and commendable Authors, and now once agayn corrected and encreased. By Wiliam
Painter, Clerke of the Ordinance and Armarie Imprinted at London In Fleatstrete by Thomas. Marshe.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅞ × 5½). U. 2.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation: A⁸=A=-2=D=⁸2=Z=⁴,
    folios numbered. Wanting A 1 (? blank), =E= 2-7, =T= 1 and 8.
    Epistle dedicatory to Sir George Howard, signed and dated ‘From my
    pore house besides the Towre of London’, Nov. 4, 1567. Address to
    the reader. List of sources. Table of contents at end. This is the
    second edition of the second volume, and was printed about 1580, the
    first having appeared in 1567.

   Sinker 323. BM 1188.

PARABOSCO, GIROLAMO.

Del¦le Lettere¦ Amoros¦e di M. Giro¦lamo Pa¦rabosco¦ Libro se¦condo con¦ alcune ¦sue nouel¦le
e¦t rime.¦ Con priu¦i¦legio. In Vinegia per Pauolo Gherardo M. D. XLVIII. [Colophon] In Vinegia
per Comin da Trino di Monferrato. M. D. XLVII I.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 2.

     Collation: A⁴ B-G⁸, folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to
     Gianpaulo Rizzo, signed Girolamo Parabosco, and dated ‘Di Vinegia
     alli XXII de Agosto del XXXVIII.’. This is the first edition of the
     second book. The original ‘Lettere Amorose’ appeared in 1545.
     Altogether four books appeared, which were first printed together
     in 1558.

PASQUIL, pseud.

Pasquils Iests: with the Merriments of Mother Bunch. Wittie, pleasant, and delightfull. London:
Printed by M. F. and are to be sold by Andrew Kembe, dwelling at Saint Margarets hill in Southwarke.
1635.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5⅞) Q. 8. 1.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Wanting H 4 (? blank). On verso of
     titlepage is the note ‘Read the Epistle, or reade nothing’ within
     small woodcut titlepage border. Address to the reader. Verses. The
     first edition appeared in 1604, the present being apparently the
     fifth.

PEELE, GEORGE.

The Araygnement of Paris A Pastorall. Presented before the Queenes Maiestie, by the Children
of her Chappell. Imprinted at London by Henrie Marsh. Anno. 1584.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). T. 7. 3.

     Collation: A-E⁴, unpaged. Prologue. Epilogue at end. The play is
     ascribed to Peele in Nash’s preface to R. Green’s ‘Menaphon’ of
     1589.

   BM 1194. Sinker 677.

Merrie Conceited Iests, of George Peel Gentleman, sometimes student in Oxford. Wherein is shewed
the course of his life, how he lived: a man very well known in the City of London, and elsewhere.

   Buy, read, and judge,
   The price do not grudge:
   It will do thee more pleasure,
   Then twice so much treasnre [sic].

London, Printed for Wiliiam [sic] Gilbertson, at the Bible in Giltspur-street without New-gate.
1657.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). S. 29. 2.

     Collation: A-C⁴, paged. The first edition of these probably
     apocryphal jests appeared in 1607: the present appears to be the
     fourth.

PERCYVALL, RICHARD.

A Dictionarie in Spanish and English, first published into the English tongue by Ric. Perciuale
Gent. Now enlarged and amplified With many thousand words, ... All done by Iohn Minsheu Professor
of Languages in London. Hereunto for the further profile and pleasure of the learner or delighted
in this tongue, is annexed an ample English Dictionarie, Alphabetically set downe with the
Spanish words thereunto adioyned, ... Imprinted at London, by Edm. Bollifant. 1599.

   F^o. (11 × 7¼). F. 10. 1.

     Collation: A⁶, with one sheet signed on first leaf A 2 inserted
     after A 1, B-2K⁶, paged. (This, and not A²A⁶, is the correct
     description of the preliminary matter.) Three columns on a page.
     Title on A1. The inserted sheet contains, epistle dedicatory to Sir
     John Scot, Sir Henry Bromley, Sir Edward Grevel, and Master William
     Fortescue, signed Iohn Minsheu, and an address to the reader,
     signed by the same. On the original A 2 begins ‘Directions for the
     understanding the vse of this Dictionary’, signed Iohn Minshew. The
     Spanish-English part begins on A 3, the English-Spanish on Y 1 each
     with head-title. Percyvall’s original work ‘Bibliotheca Hispanica.
     Containing a Grammar with a Dictionarie in Spanish, English and
     Latine’ appeared in 1591. The present work and the grammar that
     follows no doubt formed one publication, though they are
     bibliographically distinct. They are the first edition of Minsheu’s
     revision.

   Sinker 691. BM 1216.

A Spanish Grammar, first collected and published by Richard Perciuale Gent. Now augmented and
increased with the declining of all the Irregular and hard verbes in that toong.... Done by
Iohn Minsheu Professor of Languages in London. Hereunto for the yoong beginners learning and
ease, are annexed Speeches, Phrases, and Prouerbes, expounded out of diuers Authors, ... Virescit
vulnere Virtus. 2.

     Collation: a⁴b-h⁶i²k-o⁶p², paged, (a 2 is misprinted i 2, and
     the quire is otherwise unsigned. Sheet i is also unsigned.) Epistle
     dedicatory to the students of Gray’s Inn, signed Iohn Minsheu.
     Address to the reader signed by the same. Latin commendatory verses
     to Minsheu by Iohannes Keperus. ‘Soneto de un capitan Español del
     Autór’. Proeme. The ‘Pleasant and Delightfull Dialogues in Spanish
     and English’ begin with special titlepage (with same imprint) and
     fresh pagination at sig. i 1. Epistle dedicatory in Spanish to ‘Don
     Eduardo Hobby’, signed Iohn Minsheu. Enlarged by Minsheu from the
     original work by Percyvall, as preceding entry.

   Sinker 692. BM 1216.

PHAER, THOMAS.

The .xiii. Bookes of Æneidos ... 1584. See VERGILIUS MARO, Publius.

PLUTARCH.

The Lives of the noble Grecians and Romanes, compared together by that graue learned Philosopher
and Historiographer, Plutarke of Chæronea: Translated out of Greeke into French by Iames Amyot,
Abbot of Bellozane, Bishop of Auxerre, one of the Kings priuy counsel, and great Amner of Fraunce,
and out of French into Englishe, by Thomas North. Imprinted at London by Thomas Vautroullier
dwelling in the Blacke Friers by Ludgate. 1579.

   F^o. (12⅜ × 8¼). B. 9.

     Collation: *⁸A-5F⁶, paged. Wanting * 1 (? blank). (Sigs. * 3-5
     are misprinted * ij-iiij.) Epistle dedicatory to Queen Elizabeth,
     signed Thomas North, and dated Jan. 16, 1579. Address to the
     reader, signed by the same and dated Jan. 24, 1579. Amyot’s
     address to the reader. Table of contents. B 2^v and B 5^r have been
     left blank in the printing. First edition. Some copies have the
     imprint, ‘Imprinted at London by Thomas Vautroullier and Iohn
     Wight’.

   Sinker 481. BM 1243 (Wight). Hereunto are also added the liues
of Epaminondas, of Philip of Macedon, of Dionysius the elder, tyrant of
Sicilia, of Augustus Cæsar, of Plutarke, and of Seneca: with the liues
of nine other excellent Chieftaines of warre: collected out of Æmylius
Probus, by S. G. S. and Englished by the aforesaid Translator. London,
Printed by Richard Field. 1612.

   F^o. (12¾ × 8⅜). B. 5.

     Collation: A⁸B-5O⁶5P⁸, paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Queen Elizabeth, signed Thomas North. Address to the
     reader signed by the same. Amyot’s address to the reader. Table of
     Lives. There is a medallion portrait to each life. The additional
     lives have a separate titlepage, dated 1610, at sig. 5B 1, followed
     by Epistle dedicatory to Queen Elizabeth, signed Thomas North.
     Alphabetical table at end. The additional lives first appeared in
     the third edition, in 1603. They were translated into French, not
     from Probus but from C. Nepos. The initials S. G. S. stand for
     Simon Goulart Senlisien. Fourth edition.

   BM 1244.

The Philosophie, commonlie called, the Morals written by the learned Philosopher Plutarch of
Chæronea. Translated out of Greeke into English, and conferred with the Latine translations
and the French, by Philemon Holland of Coventrie, Doctor in Physicke. Whereunto are annexed
the Summaries necessary to be read before every Treatise. At London Printed by Arnold Hatfield.
1603.

   F^o. (12⅝ × 8⅜). B. 6.

     Collation: ¶⁴A-5Z⁶6A-6E⁴6F⁶, paged. Epistle dedicatory to
     King James, signed Philémon Holland. Table of contents. At the end
     glossary of obscure terms, alphabetical index and list of errata.
     First edition.

   BM 1243.

PORTO, LUIGI DA.

Historia nuouamente ritrouata, di due nolibi amanti, Con la loro pietosa morte: Interuenuta
già nella Città di Verona. Nel tempo del Signor Bartolomeo della Scala. Nuouamente stampata.
In Venetia Per Giouan. Griffio. [Colophon adds date:] M. D. LIII.

   8^o. (6 × 4). X. 4. 1.

     Collation: A-E⁴, folios numbered. Epistle dedicatory to Lucina
     Savorgana. Introduction. ‘Narratione della Historia.’ The last leaf
     is blank except for the printer’s device on the verso. Da Porta’s
     ‘historia’ is supposed to have been the source of Bandello’s
     ‘novella’ of Romeo and Juliet. It may in its turn have been founded
     on a tale of Massuccio. The earliest edition is undated, and there
     was another in 1536 before the present one.

PUTTENHAM, GEORGE.

The Arte of English Poesie. Contriued into three Bookes: The first of Poets and Poesie, the
second of Proportion, the third of Ornament. At London Printed by Richard Field, dwelling in
the black-Friers, neere Ludgate. 1589.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅛). R. 14.

     Collation: AB⁴C-H⁴I²K-2L⁴2M², paged. Wanting AB 1 and 2M 2
     (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to William Cecill, Lord of Burghley,
     signed R. F. (i.e. Richard Field) and dated May 28, 1589. Woodcut
     portrait of Q. Elizabeth with the legend ‘A colei Che se stessa
     rassomiglia & non altrui’. The further legend ‘Elizabetha D. G.
     Regina’ is impressed in blind round the head. Table of contents at
     end. Attributed to George Puttenham. One copy in the BM differs
     from all others known in having an extra sheet signed i-iiii
     inserted between sheets N and O, the setting of the adjoining pages
     being rearranged to connect with the insertion.

   Sinker 736. BM 581.

RALEIGH, Sir WALTER.

The Historie of the World. In five bookes. 1 Intreating of the Beginning and first Ages of
the same, from the Creation unto Abraham. 2 Of the Times from the Birth of Abraham, to the
destruction of the Temple of Salomon. 3 From the destruction of Jerusalem, to the time of Philip
of Macedon. 4 From the Reigne of Philip of Macedon, to the establishing of that Kingdome, in
the Race of Antigonus. 5 From the settled rule of Alexanders Successors in the East, untill
the Romans (prevailing over all) made Conquest of Asia and Macedon. By Sir Walter Ralegh, Knight.
[Portrait.] [Colophon] London, Printed for G. Latham, and R. Young. M. DC. XXXIV.

   F^o. (13⅛ × 8¾). B. 1.

     Collation: 3 leaves unsigned, A-B⁶C⁴a⁶b⁸;
     A-V⁶2A-2V⁶3A-3V⁶ 4A-4V⁶5A-5Z⁶; (a)⁶(aa)⁶(*)⁶(**)⁸,
     paged. The three preliminary leaves contain verses headed ‘The Mind
     of the Front,’ engraved titlepage, signed Ren. Elstrack, with
     imprint ‘At London Printed for Walter Burre. 1614’, and printed
     titlepage with engraved portrait of the author signed Sim: Pass.
     Preface. Table of contents. Several two-page engraved maps and
     plans inserted. At the end, address to the reader, chronological
     tables, alphabetical table to Books i and ii, and to Books iii-v.
     The first edition appeared in 1614, and the engraved titlepage was
     used in several subsequent ones. There were at least two before the
     present.

   BM 1284.

RETURN FROM PARNASSUS.

The Returne from Pernassus: Or The Scourge of Simony. Publiquely acted by the Students in Saint
Iohns Colledge in Cambridge. At London Printed by G. Eld, for Iohn Wri¦ght,¦ and are to bee
sold at his ¦shop at¦ Christ church ¦Gate.¦ 1606.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5). S. 33. 1.

     Collation: A-H⁴I², unpaged. Prologue. Personae. Wanting I 1,
     supplied in MS., and I 2 (? blank). Two editions appeared this
     year, having identical titlepages. The present is presumably the
     earlier. T. 9. 4.

     Titlepage identical with the above, having been printed from the
     same setting up of the type. The date has been erased. Collation:
     A-H⁴, unpaged. Prologue. Personae.

   BM 1198.

ROBERTS, JOHN. Whereby The Errors of their Edition are further accounted for, and some Memoirs
of Shakespear and Stage-History of His Time are inserted, which were never before collected
and publish’d. By a Stroling Player.

   Say from what Cause (by all condemn’d and curst!)
   Still Bays the Second rails like Bays the First!

     Right Reading of the Dunciad Variorum from a Manuscript (revised
     and collated by this Author) which is interpolated by the last
     Editor.

London: Printed in the Year MDCCXXIX.

   8^o. (7¼ × 4¾) S. 28. 5.

     The letter is signed Anti-Scriblerus Histrionicus. The Author was
     John Roberts.

ROBINSON, RALPH.

A fruteful / and pleasaunt worke ... called Vtopia.... 1551. See MORE, Sir Thomas.

ROWLAND, DAVID.

The plesant Historic of Lazarillo de Tormes.... 1596. See LAZARILLO DE TORMES.

ROWLANDS, SAMUEL.

A Fooles Bolt is soone shott. [Woodcut.] Imprinted at London for George Loftus, and are to
be sold at the signe of the White Horse at the Steps of the North doore of Paules. 1614.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 33. 6.

     Collation: A-E⁴, unpaged. Ornament at foot of each page. Verse
     ‘Epistle’, signed S. R. (i.e. Samuel Rowlands).

ROWLEY, WILLIAM.

The Birth of Merlin: or, The Childe hath found his Father. As it hath been several times Acted
with great Applause. Written by William Shakespear, and William Rowley. Placere cupio. London:
Printed by Tho. Johnson for Francis Kirkman, and Henry Marsh, and are to be sold at the Princes
Arms in Chancery-Lane. 1662.

   4^o (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 23. 6.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Personae.

SACCHETTI, FRANCO.

Delle Novelle di Franco Sacchetti Cittadino Fiorentino Parte Prima. [Parte Seconda.] In Firense
.M.D.CC.XXIV.

   2 vols. 8^o. (8 × 5). P. 3-4.

     The first and second editions both appeared in this year.

SALVIANUS, MASSILIENSIS.

A second and third blast of retrait from plaies and Theaters: the one whereof was sounded by
a reuerend Byshop dead long since; the other by a worshipful and zealous Gentleman now aliue:
one showing the filthines of plaies in times past; the other the abhomination of Theaters in
the time present: both expresly prouing that that Common-weale is nigh vnto the cursse of God,
wherein either plaiers be made of, or Theaters maintained. Set forth by Anglo-phile Eutheo.
Ephes. 5, verse. 15, 16. Take heede therefore that ye walke circumspectlie, not as vnwise,
but as wise, redeeming the time, because the daies are euil. Allowed by auctoritie. 1580. [Colophon]
1580 Imprinted at London by Henrie Denham, dwelling in Pater noster Row, at the signe of the
Starre, being the assigne of William Seres. Cum priuilegio Regiæ Maiestatis.

   8^o. (5⅛ × 3⅜). *. 15. 2.

     Collation: A-I⁸, paged. Wanting A 2-7 (containing address to the
     reader and first leaf of text), and I 8 (? blank). The verso of
     title is occupied by the arms of the City of London. Address to the
     reader. The ‘Third Blast’ begins with head-title on sig. D 3. The
     ‘Second Blast’ is translated from the sixth book of the ‘De
     Gubernatione Dei’ of Salvianus, who wrote in the fifth century. The
     present work was intended as a continuation of Stephen Gosson’s
     ‘School of Abuse’.

   Sinker 341. BM 1350.

SANDFORD, JAMES.

The Garden of Pleasure: Contayninge most pleasante Tales, worthy deedes and witty sayings of
noble Princes & learned Philosophers, Moralized. No lesse delectable, than profitable. Done
out of Italian into English, by Iames Sanford, Gent. Wherein are also set forth diuers Verses
and Sentences in Italian, with the Englishe to the same, for the benefit of students in both
tongs. Imprinted at London, by Henry Bynneman. Anno. 1573. [Colophon] Imprinted at London by
Henry Bynneman, dwelling in Knight riders streate, at the signe of the Mermayde. Anno. 1573.
And are to be sold at his shop at the Northwest dore of Poules Church.

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5⅜ × 3⅝). *. 13.

     Collation: A⁴B-P⁸, folios numbered. Wanting B 6. The verso of the
     title is occupied by two heraldic woodcuts. The upper one, with the
     date 1573, is the Dudley crest charged with a crescent of
     difference within garter of the order, for Robert, Earl of
     Leicester. (The crescent has been added since the same block was
     used in Turberville’s ‘Epitaphs’ etc. in 1570.) The lower with a
     Greek motto displays, according to Herbert (p. 973), the arms of
     the author. Verses to Leicester in Greek, Latin, Italian, French,
     and English. Epistle dedicatory to Leicester, signed. Address to
     the reader. At sig, O 5^v begins the collection of ‘Certain Italian
     Prouerbes’. There was a later edition of the work in 1576 under the
     title of ‘Hours of Recreation’. According to the author’s statement
     the work is gathered out of a number of Italian writers.

   Sinker 282. BM 1354.

SANDYS, GEORGE.

Sandys Travels, containing an History of the Original and present State of the Turkish Empire:
Their Laws, Government, Policy, Military Force, Courts of Justice, and Commerce. The Mahometan
Religion and Ceremonies: A Description of Constantinople, The Grand Signor’s Seraglio, and
his manner of living: Also, Of Greece, With the Religion and Customs of the Grecians. Of Ægypt;
the Antiquity, Hieroglyphicks, Rites, Customs, Discipline, and Religion of the Ægyptians. A
Voyage on the River Nylus: Of Armenia, Grand Cairo, Rhodes, the Pyramides, Colossus; The former
flourishing and present State of Alexandria. A Description of the Holy-Land; of the Jews, and
several Sects of Christians living there; of Jerusalem, Sepulchre of Christ, Temple of Solomon;
and what else either of Antiquity, or worth observation. Lastly, Italy described, and the Islands
adjoining; as Cyprus, Crete, Malta, Sicilia, the Æolian Islands; Of Rome, Venice, Naples, Syracusa,
Mesena, Ætna, Scylla, and Charybdis; and other places of Note. Illustrated with Fifty Graven
Maps and Figures. The Seventh Edition. London, Printed for John Williams Junior, at the Crown
in Little-Britain. 1673.

   F^o. (12⅝ × 7⅞). B. 7.

     Collation: A⁴B-X⁶, paged. Two-page engraved map inserted after
     sig. A, and a folding plate at sig. D 1. Engraved plates in the
     text. Wanting A 4 (? blank). Engraved title with imprint ‘London,
     Printed for Philip Chetwin 1670’ preceding printed title. Epistle
     dedicatory ‘To the Prince’ (afterwards Charles I), signed George
     Sandys. The text in four books. Originally published in 1615 under
     the title ‘A Relation of a Iourney begun An: Dom: 1610’. The
     edition of 1652 is said on the titlepage to be the fifth, but it
     appears to be at least the sixth. The present is probably the
     eighth.

SANSOVINO, FRANCESCO.

Cento Nouelle Scelte da piu nobili Scrittori della Lingua Volgare, di Francesco Sansovino,
nelle quali piaceuoli & notabili auuenimenti si contingono: Di nuouo riformate, riuedute, &
corrette, Con licentia de’ Superiori, & aggiuntoui nouamente le Figure in principio d’ ogni
Nouella. Al Magnifico, & Eccellente Signore, & Padron Collendissimo Il Sig. Girolamo Rossetti
Con Priuilegio. In Venetia, M. D C III. Appresso Alessandro de Vecchi.

   4^o. (7½ × 5½). Q. 4.

     Collation: +⁶A-2E⁸2F⁴, paged. Printer’s epistle to Rossetti,
     dated May 10, 1603. Table of contents. This is the only edition
     having the verses at the end of each novel. There are woodcuts to
     each novel (often repeated) and also to each ‘Giornata’. The first
     edition of this collection appeared in 1561.

Del Secretario di M. Francesco Sansouino libri quattro. Ne quali con bell’ ordine s’ insegna
altrui a scriuer lettere messiue & responsiue in tutti i generi, come nella Tauola contrascritta
si comprende. Con gli essempi delle lettere formate et poste a lor luoghi in diuerse materie
con le parti segnate. Et con uarie lettere di Principi a piu persone, scritte da diuersi Secretarii
in piu occasioni, e in diuersi tempi. Con priuilegio. In Venetia, Appresso Francesco Rampazetto.
1565.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 1.

     Collation: *⁸A-O⁸, folios numbered. O 7 blank. Wanting O 8 (?
     blank). Epistle dedicatory by Sansovino to Ottaviano Valiero,
     ‘Podestà & Capitano di Feltre’, dated Venice, March 1, 1564. Table
     of contents. Classified table ‘de generi delle lettere’. The first
     edition appeared the previous year.

SAVIOLO, VICENTIO.

Vincentio Sauiolo his Practise. In two Bookes. The first intreating of the vse of the Rapier
and Dagger. The second, of Honor and honorable Quarrels. London Printed by Iohn Wolfe. 1595.

   4^o. (7½ × 5½). R. 1^B.

    Collation: A-H⁴❧-3❧⁴I-2G⁴¶²2H-2M⁴, unpaged. 2M 4
    blank. Wanting A 1 (? blank). The first paragraph on ❧ 1 is
    repeated on I 1, the three sheets signed 1-3[heart] having been
    inserted after printing off to repair the omission of ‘The first
    dayes Discourse, concerning the Rapier and Dagger’; so also the
    catchword on 2G 4^v refers to 2H 1, the half-sheet signed ¶ being
    an insertion ‘Of the Duello or Combat’ at the head of which is the
    note to the binder ‘This is to be placed before the first chapter of
    Satisfaction’. On K 3 and again on ¶ 2^v occurs a fine device or
    emblem with motto ‘[mc] O wormes meate: O froath: O vanitie: Why art
    thou so insolent’. Epistle dedicatory to Robert, Earl of Essex and
    Ewe, signed by the author. Address to the reader. The second book
    has a separate titlepage at sig. O1, with same imprint but for date
    1594. Preface. Woodcuts in the first part.

   Sinker 609. BM 1358.

SCOT, REGINALD. Iohn.

   =B. L.= 4^o (7½ × 5½). Q. 3.

     Collation: A⁸B⁶C-V⁸2A-2C⁸*²2D-2S⁸, paged. Three epistles
     dedicatory: to Sir Roger Manwood; to Sir Thomas Scot; and to Dr.
     Coldwell, Dean of Rochester, and Dr. Readman, Archdeacon of
     Canterbury, each signed. Address to the readers. Errata. List of
     authorities. Table of contents at end. Woodcuts. Probably printed
     by Henry Denham, with Brome as bookseller.

   Sinker 543. BM 1364.

SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM.

The Birth of Merlin.... 1662. 4^o. See ROWLEY, William.

The Two Noble Kinsmen.... 1634. See BEAUMONT, Francis, and FLETCHER, John. [Portrait.] London
Printed by Isaac Iaggard, and Ed. Blount. 1623. [Colophon] Printed at the Charges of W. Iaggard,
Ed. Blount, I. Smithweeke and W. Aspley, 1623.

   F^o. (13 × 8½). *. 1.

     Engraved portrait on titlepage, signed Martin Droeshout. Collation:
     A⁶, with titlepage inserted after A 1, 2 leaves unsigned,
     A-2B⁶2C²a-g⁶2g^3h-x⁴, 2 leaves unsigned, ¶-2¶⁶, 1 leaf
     signed 3¶, 2a-2f⁶2g²2G⁶2h⁶2k-3b⁶, paged (irregularly
     and in three portions, beginning respectively on A 1, a 1 and 2a 1,
     in the last of which the numbering jumps from 156-257). Verses to
     the reader signed B. I. facing title. Titlepage with portrait.
     Epistle dedicatory to William Earl of Pembroke and Philip Earl of
     Montgomery, signed by Iohn Heminge and Henry Condell. Address to
     the readers, signed by the same. Commendatory verses signed Ben:
     Ionson and Hugh Holland. Table of contents (which omits ‘Troilus
     and Cressida’). More commendatory verses signed L. Digges and I. M.
     List of the principal actors. The three parts, comedies, histories,
     and tragedies, have separate pagination and signatures. ‘Troilus
     and Cressida’ which is inserted at the head of the tragedies, is
     unpaged and occupies sigs. ¶-3¶ and the two unsigned leaves
     preceding them. The arrangement of the preliminary matter offers
     some difficulties. The only leaves signed are the third and fourth,
     A 2 and A 3, containing the epistle dedicatory and the address
     to the readers. The fifth leaf, containing Jonson’s verses,
     certainly forms one sheet with A 3; and in the same way the sixth
     leaf, containing Holland’s verses, certainly forms one sheet with
     A 2. It is further highly probable that the seventh leaf,
     containing the table of contents, forms one sheet with the verses
     signed B. I. (A 1), and that the titlepage is on a single leaf
     inserted; also that leaves eight and nine, containing the further
     commendatory verses and the list of actors, form one sheet
     together. As the present copy shows no trace of ever having been
     tampered with, the above arrangement is probably original. It
     should however be noted that in the Chatsworth copy the unsigned
     sheet here placed after quire A is there bound up in the middle.
     This may be the correct arrangement, but the copy is not in its
     original state. In the Grylls copy the preliminary matter has been
     rearranged. For the irregularities in the making up of the volume
     and the variations presented by different copies see Mr. Sidney
     Lee’s Introduction to the Oxford Facsimile. The first collected
     edition of Shakespeare’s plays, in which twenty appeared for the
     first time.

   BM 1385.

M^r. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Originall Coppies. The second Impression. [Portrait.] London, Printed by Tho. Cotes, for Robert
Allot, and are to be sold at his shop at the signe of the blacke Beare in Pauls Church-yard.
1632. [Colophon] Printed at London by Thomas Cotes, for Iohn Smethwick, William Aspley, Richard
Hawkins, Richard Meighen, and Robert Allot, 1632.

   F^o. (13¾ × 9⅛). *. 2.

     Engraved portrait as before. Collation: A⁶ (A 3 misprinted A 2)
     *⁴; A-2B⁶C²a-y⁶2a-3c⁶3d⁴, paged (irregularly and in three
     parts, beginning respectively on A 1, a 1, and 2a 1, in the last of
     which the numbering jumps from 168 to 269). Verses to the reader,
     signed B. I., facing title. Epistle and address as before.
     Commendatory verses, two copies unsigned not in previous edition,
     copies signed L. Digges and I. M. List of principal actors. More
     commendatory verses signed Ben. Ionson, I. M. S. (not in previous
     edition), and Hugh Holland, Table of contents including ‘Troilus
     and Cressida’. The three parts have separate pagination and
     signatures and ‘Troilus and Cressida’ begins those of the
     tragedies. The misprint in the signatures of the preliminary matter
     is accounted for by the fact of the compositor having reprinted
     that in the first folio, irrespective of the fact that the
     titlepage is here included in the quire. In the present copy
     sufficient room has not been allowed for the imposition of the
     portrait which consequently covers some of the printing of the
     titlepage. In some copies one of the other stationers’ names
     replaces Allot’s in the imprint. But beyond this there were two
     distinct settings up of the titlepage. Thus the Grylls copy differs
     from the present in reading ‘M^{r.}’ for ‘M^r.’, ‘Copies’ for
     ‘Coppies’, ‘sold at the signe’ for ‘sold at his shop at the signe’,
     and ‘Blacke’ for ‘blacke’. There are also two settings of sig. A 5
     in the preliminary matter, one having an ornamental initial ‘S’ at
     the beginning of the first copy of verses, the other a factotum.
     Second edition.

   BM 1386.

M^{r.} William Shakespear’s Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the
true Original Copies. The third impression. And unto this Impression is added seven Playes,
never before Printed in Folio, viz, Pericles Prince of Tyre. The London Prodigall. The History
of Thomas L^d. Cromwell. Sir John Oldcastle Lord Cobham. The Puritan Widow. A York-shire Tragedy.
The Tragedy of Locrine. London, Printed for P. C. 1664.

   F^o. (13⅛ × 8¾). A. 2.

     Collation: A⁴ (A 3 misprinted A 2) b⁶;
     A-2A⁶2B⁸2C-4D⁶4E⁴a⁶b⁴ *-4*⁴¶A-¶B⁶¶C-¶F⁴¶G⁶, paged
     (continuously in the original sheets and in two parts beginning at
     sigs. a 1 and * 1 in the additional; see below). Two leaves
     containing portrait with verses signed B. J. printed below and
     titlepage, replacing original A 1 and 2. The present copy has the
     original A 1 preserved after A 4. Epistle and address as before.
     Commendatory verses signed: L. Digges, (1 copy unsigned), J. M.,
     Ben. Johnson, J. M. S., (1 copy unsigned), and Hugh Holland. List
     of principal actors. Table of contents. In the present copy the
     additional plays are misplaced immediately after the preliminary
     matter. There was an earlier issue of this edition with different
     titlepage and preliminary leaf, and without the additional plays.
     In that issue the leaf before the titlepage contains the verses
     only and the titlepage runs ‘M^{r}. [Portrait.] London, Printed for
     Philip Chetwinde, 1663.’ Third edition. Unto which is added,
Seven Plays, Never before Printed in Folio: viz. Pericles Prince of
Tyre. The London Prodigal. The History of Thomas Lord Cromwel. Sir John
Oldcastle Lord Cobham. The Puritan Widow. A Yorkshire Tragedy. The
Tragedy of Locrine. The Fourth Edition. London, Printed for H.
Herringman, E. Brewster, and R. Bentley, at the Anchor in the New
Exchange, the Crane in St. Pauls Church-Yard, and in Russel-Street
Covent-Garden. 1685.

   F^o. (14¼ × 9⅛). A. 3.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned, A⁴; A-Y⁶Z⁴; 2B-3D⁶3E⁸; 3A-4B⁶
     4C², paged (in three parts beginning respectively at A 1, 2B 1,
     and 3A 1 in last set of signatures). Engraved portrait, as before,
     with verses printed below, and titlepage, unsigned. Epistle and
     address as before. Commendatory verses as before. List of principal
     actors. Table of contents. The fresh signatures and pagination
     begin with the comedies, histories, and ‘Timon of Athens’.

The Works of Mr. William Shakespear; in six volumes. Adorn’d with Cuts. Revis’d and Corrected,
with an Account of the Life and Writings of the Author. By N. Rowe, Esq; London: Printed for
Jacob Tonson, within Grays-Inn Gate, next Grays-Inn Lane. MDCCIX.

   6 vols. 8^o. (8½ × 5½). N. 1-6.

     The first edition after the four folios. Rowe published a second in
     1714. The additional plays of 1664 are included.

The Works of Shakespear. In six Volumes. Collated and Corrected by the former Editions, By
Mr. Pope.... London: Printed for Jacob Tonson in the Strand. MDCCXXV.

   7 vols. 4^o. (11¼ × 9). E. 6-12.

     With engraved portrait of Shakespeare by Vertue dated 1721. The
     ‘Life’ is by Rowe. Vols. ii-vi are dated 1723. The additional
     volume contains the Poems, with an essay on the stage and a
     glossary, ‘The Whole Revis’d and Corrected, with a Preface, By Dr.
     Sewell,’ and the imprint ‘London; Printed by J. Darby, for A.
     Bettesworth, F. Fayram, W. Mears, J. Pemberton, J. Hooke, C.
     Rivington, F. Clay, J. Batley, E. Symon. M.DCC.XXV.’ The ‘Essay’ in
     this volume is by C. Gildon. The texts of ‘The Tempest’ and ‘A
     Midsummer Night’s Dream’ in vol. i, and of ‘King Lear’ in vol. iii,
     are corrected throughout in Capell’s hand.

   7 vols. 8^o. (9⅛ × 5½). L. 1-7.

     Facing the preface in the first volume (A 5^v) is the inscription:
     “This copy of M^{r}. Theobald’s edition was once M^{r.}
     Warburton’s; who has claim’d in it the Notes he gave to the former
     which that former depriv’d him of and made his own, and some
     Passages in the Preface, the Passages being put between hooks, and
     the notes sign’d with his name. E. C.”.

The Works of Shakespear. In six Volumes. Carefully Revised and Corrected by the former Editions,
and Adornd with Sculptures designed and executed by the best hands.--Nil ortum tale.--Hor.
Oxford: Printed at the Theatre, MDCCXLIV.

   6 vols. 4^o. (11¾ × 9). D. 1-6.

     There is a MS. note by Capell on verso of titlepage to vol. i,
     dated Mar. 26, 1774, stating that the copy had been presented by
     the editor to the Rev. Arthur Kynnesman, headmaster of St. Edmond’s
     Bury school, and by him bequeathed to Capell. Vols. ii-iv are dated
     1743. There is a portrait of Shakespeare and an engraving by
     Gravelot to each play. Vol. vi contains a glossary but not the
     Poems. This is the first edition of the text prepared by Sir Thomas
     Hanmer. The engravings are after designs by Hayman. MDCCXLVII.

   8 vols. 8^o. (8 × 5). P. 8-15.

     Some copies of the first volume contain an engraved portrait of
     Shakespeare by Vertue.

Mr William Shakespeare his Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies, set out by himself in quarto,
or by the Players his Fellows in folio, and now faithfully republish’d from those Editions
in ten Volumes octavo: with an Introduction: Whereunto will be added, in some other Volumes,
Notes, critical and explanatory, and a Body of Various Readings entire.

   Qui genus humanum ingenio superavit, et omneis
   Præstinxit, stellas exortus uti æthereus Sol.

   Lucr. Lib. 3. l. 1056.

London: Printed by Dryden Leach, for J. and R. Tonson in the strand.

   10 vols. 8^o. (7 × 4½). S. 40-49.

     Epistle dedicatory to the Duke of Grafton, signed Edward Capell,
     and dated, Essex Court in the Temple. Nov. 9, 1767. The ten volumes
     appeared in 1767 and 1768. The additional volumes containing
     critical matter were not published till 1779-80, after the
     collection had been given to the College. In this copy the metre is
     marked throughout in the editor’s hand.

Antony and Cleopatra: an historical Play, written by William Shakespeare: fitted for the Stage
by abridging only; and now acted, at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-Lane, by his Majesty’s Servants.

   No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
   A pair so famous. p. 99.

London: Printed for J. and R. Tonson in the Strand. MDCCLVIII.

   8^o. (7⅛ × 4⅛). S. 38.

     Dedicatory verses to ‘the Countess of * *’, signed Ignoto, and
     dated Oct. 3, 1757. Addition to song in II. iii. Corrigenda. List
     of Personae with actors’ names. List of Conjectural Readings at the
     end after the colophon. The version was prepared by Edward Capell
     and David Garrick.

The Tragicall Historie of Hamlet, Prince of Denmarke. By William Shakespeare. Newly imprinted
and enlarged to almost as much againe as it was, according to the true and perfect Coppie.
At London, Printed by I. R for N. L. and are to be sold at his shoppe vnder Saint Dunstons
Church in Fleetstreet. 1605.

   4^o. (7⅞ × 5⅛). S. 31.2.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-N⁴O², unpaged. The first edition
     appeared in 1603. The second, which first gave the full text, was
     printed in 1604. The present is a re-issue of the 1604 edition with
     the date altered.

   BM 1386. At London, Printed for Iohn Smethwicke,
and are to be sold at his shoppe in Saint Dunstons Church yeard in
Fleetstreet. Vnder the Diall. 1611.¦

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 19. 1.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-N⁴O², unpaged. Wanting
     titlepage. Third edition.

   BM 1387.

The Tragedy of Hamlet Prince of Denmarke. Newly Imprinted and inlarged, according to the true
and perfect Copy lastly Printed. By William Shakespeare. London, Printed by W. S. for Iohn
Smethwicke, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Church-yard in Fleetstreet: Vnder
the Diall.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅜). R. 20. 1.

     Collation: A-N⁴, unpaged. N 4 blank. The fourth edition, printed
     between 1611 and 1637, not in 1607 as suggested in the BM
     Catalogue.

   BM 1387.

The Tragedy of Hamlet Prince of Denmark. Newly imprinted and inlarged, according to the true
and perfect Copy last Printed. By William Shakespeare. London, Printed by R. Young for John
Smethwicke, and are to be sold at his Shop in Saint Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet-street, under
the Diall. 1637.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 21. 1.

     Collation: A-N⁴, unpaged. Fifth edition.

   BM 1387.

The History of Henrie the fourth; With the battell at Shrewsburie, betweene the King and Lord
Henry Percy, surnamed Henrie Hotspur of the North. With the humorous conceits of Sir Iohn Falstalffe.
At London, Printed by P. S. for Andrew Wise, dwelling in Paules Churchyard, at the signe of
the Angell. 1598.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 20. 4.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. First edition.

   Sinker 773. BM 790. With the humorous conceits of Sir Iohn Falstalffe. Newly
corrected by W. Shake-speare. 1599.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 37. 4. London Printed by Valentine Simmes, for
Mathew Law, and are to be solde at his shop in Paules Churchyard, at the
signe of the Fox. 1604.¦

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¾). R. 23. 8.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Wanting A, B 1, D 2-3 and K. Third
     edition. The copy in the Bodleian, which appears to be the only
     other known, wants C 1.

The History of Henrie the fourth, With the Battell at Shrewseburie, betweene the King, and
Lord Henrie Percy, surnamed Henrie Hotspur of the North. With the humorous conceites of Sir
Iohn Falstaffe. Newly corrected by W. Shakespeare. London, Printed by W. W. for Mathew Law,
and are to be sold at his shop in Paules Church-yard, neere vnto S. Augustines Gate, at the
signe of the Foxe. 1613.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 21. 2.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Collated throughout in Capell’s hand
     with the edition of 1608. Fifth edition, the fourth having appeared
     in 1608.

   BM 1387.

The Historie of Henry the Fourth. Newly corrected. By William Shake-speare. London, Printed
by T. P. and are to be sold by Mathew Law, dwelling in Pauls Church-yard, at the Signe of the
Foxe, neere S. Austines gate, 1622.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5½). S. 27. 4.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. The sixth edition.

   BM 1387.
1632.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5-¼). S. 31. 1.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Seventh edition.

   BM 1387.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). S. 29. 4.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Eighth edition.

   BM 1387. As it hath been sundrie times publikely acted by
the right honourable, the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants. Written by
William Shakespeare. London Printed by V. S. for Andrew Wise, and
William Aspley. 1600.

   4^o. (7 × 4¾). S. 35. 3.

     Collation: A-K⁴L², unpaged. Prologue not distinguished from the
     text. Epilogue at the end. This is the original issue of the first
     edition. The second issue differs in having six leaves to sheet E,
     rectifying the omission of Act III. Sc. i.

   Sinker 807. BM 1387 (second issue and sheet E of first).

The cronicle History of Henry the fift, With his battell fought at Agin Court in France. Togither
with Auntient Pistoll. As it hath bene sundry times playd by the Right honorable the Lord Chamberlaine
his seruants. London Printed by Thomas Creede, for Tho. Millington, and Iohn Busby. And are
to be sold at his house in Carter Lane, next the Powle head. 1600.

   4^o. (6½ × 4¾). W. 5. 5.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Wanting G 4 (? blank). First edition.

   Sinker 657. BM 790. 1602.

   4^o. (7 × 4¾). S. 35. 2.

     Collation: A-F⁴G², unpaged. Second edition. Collated throughout
     in Capell’s hand with the editions of 1600 and 1608. Together with ancient Pistoll. As it hath bene sundry
times playd by the Right Honourable the Lord Chamberlaine his Seruants.
Printed for T. P. 1608.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 12. 2.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. G 4 blank. Third edition.

   BM 790.

M. William Shak-speare: his True Chronicle Historie of the life and death of King Lear and
his three Daughters. With the vnfortunate life of Edgar, sonne and heire to the Earle of Gloster,
and his sullen and assumed humor of Tom of Bedlam: As it was played before the Kings Maiestie
at Whitehall vpon S. Stephans night in Christmas Hollidayes. By his Majesties seruants playing
vsually at the Gloabe on the Bancke-side. London, Printed for Nathaniel Butter, and are to
be sold at his shop in Pauls Church-yard at the signe of the Pide Bull neere S^t. Austins Gate.
1608.

   4^o. (7 × 4⅞). S. 35. 1.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, B-L⁴, unpaged. First edition(?). On
     the question of priority see preface to the eighth volume of the
     Cambridge Shakespeare, and Furness’ edition of the play, p. 355.

   BM 1388. With the vnfortunate life
of Edgar, sonne and heire to the Earle of Glocester, and his sullen and
assumed humour of Tom of Bedlam. As it was plaid before the Kings
Maiesty at White-Hall, vppon S. Stephens night, in Christmas Hollidaies.
By his Maiesties Seruants, playing vsually at the Globe on the
Banck-side. Printed for Nathaniel Butter. 1608.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 11. 4.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Second edition (?).

   BM 1388. By
his Maiesties Servants, playing vsually at the Globe on the Bank-side.
London. Printed by Jane Bell, and are to be sold at the East-end of
Christ-Church. 1655.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). S. 31. 4.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Third edition. Printer’s advertisement
     of books on verso of titlepage.

A Pleasant Conceited Comedie called, Loues labors lost. As it was presented before her Highnes
this last Christmas. Newly corrected and augmented By W. Shakespere. Imprinted at London by
W. W. for Cutbert Burby. 1598.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 37. 3.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², unpaged. First edition.

   Sinker 713. BM 1389.

Loues Labours lost. A wittie and pleasant Comedie, As it was Acted by his Maiesties Seruants
at the Blacke-Friers and the Globe. 1631.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). S. 31. 5.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², unpaged. Second edition.

   BM 1389.

The excellent History of the Merchant of Venice. With the extreme cruelty of Shylocke the Iew
towards the saide Merchant, in cutting a iust pound of his flesh. And the obtaining of Portia,
by the choyse of three Caskets. Written by W. Shakespeare. Printed by I. Roberts, 1600.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 11. 5.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. First edition. On the question of
     priority between the two editions of this date see Furnival’s
     introduction to the facsimile edition (1881), and the preface to
     the second volume of the Cambridge Shakespeare.

   Sinker 475. BM 1389.

The most excellent Historie of the Merchant of Venice. With the extreame crueltie of Shylocke
the Iewe towards the sayd Merchant, in cutting a iust pound of his flesh: and the obtayning
of Portia by the choyse of three chests. 1600.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 30. 4.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², unpaged. Second edition.

   Sinker 476. BM 1390. As it hath beene divers times acted by the Lord
Chamberlaine his Servants. Written by William Shakespeare. London,
Printed by M. P. for Laurence Hayes, and are to be sold at his Shop in
Fleetbridge. 1637.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). S. 31. 3.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged. Third edition.

   BM 1390.

The most excellent Historie of the Merchant of Venice: With the extreame cruelty of Shylocke
the Jew towards the said Merchant, in cutting a just pound of his flesh: and the obtaining
of Portia by the choyce of three Chests. 1652.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). S. 27. 5.

     This is a re-issue of the edition of 1637 with a new titlepage
     having personae and stationer’s advertisement on the verso.

A Most pleasaunt and excellent conceited Comedie, of Syr Iohn Falstaffe, and the merrie Wiues
of Windsor. Entermixed with sundrie variable and pleasing humors, of Syr Hugh the Welch Knight,
Iustice Shallow, and his wise Cousin M. Slender. With the swaggering vaine of Auncient Pistoll,
and Corporall Nym. By William Shakespeare. As it hath bene diuers times Acted by the right
Honorable my Lord Chamberlaines seruants. Both before her Majestie, and else-where. London
Printed by T. C. for Arthur Iohnson, and are to be sold at his shop in Powles Church-yard,
at the signe of the Flower de Leuse and the Crowne. 1602.

   4^o. (6⅝ × 4¾). W. 5. 5.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. A 1 blank but for signature. First
     edition.

A Most pleasant and excellent conceited Comedy, of Sir Iohn Falstaffe, and the merry Wiues
of Windsor. With the swaggering vaine of Ancient Pistoll, and Corporall Nym. Written by W.
Shakespeare. Printed for Arthur Johnson, 1619.

   4^o. (7½ × 5-6/8). Q. 11. 2.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Second edition.

   BM 1390.

The Merry Wives of Windsor. With the humours of Sir Iohn Falstaffe, As also the swaggering
vaine of Ancient Pistoll, and Corporall Nym. Written by William Shake-Speare. Newly corrected.
London: Printed by T. H. for R. Meighen, and are to be sold at his Shop, next to the Middle-Temple
Gate, and in S. Dunstans Church-yard in Fleet-street, 1630.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5¼). T. 7. 6.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. K 4 blank. Third edition.

   BM 1390.

A Midsommer nights dreame. Imprinted at London, for Thomas Fisher, and are to be soulde at
his shoppe, at the Signe of the White Hart, in Fleetestreete. 1600.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 27. 3.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. First edition. On the priority of the
     two editions of this year see Ebsworth’s Introduction to the
     facsimile edition (1880) and the preface to the second volume of
     the Cambridge Shakespeare. The present copy belonged to Theobald,
     who has written the following note on the titlepage: ‘Collated with
     the other Old Quarto, with the same Title, printed by James Roberts
     in 1600. L. T.’ The collations are entered in the margin.

   Sinker 822. Printed by Iames Roberts, 1600.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 11. 3.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Second edition.

   Sinker 474. BM 1390.

Much adoe about Nothing. S. 34. 3.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged.

   Sinker 806. BM 1390.

The Tragœdy of Othello, The Moore of Venice. As it hath beene diuerse times acted at the Globe,
and at the Black-Friers, by his Maiesties Seruants. Written by William Shakespeare. London,
Printed by N. O. for Thomas Walkley, and are to be sold at his shop, at the Eagle and Child,
in Brittans Bursse. 1622.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅝). S. 27. 2.

     Collation: A²B-M⁴N², paged. Stationer’s address to the reader,
     signed Thomas Walkley. The portion from sheet I onwards has been
     supplied from a narrower copy. It is however of the same edition
     although the last line on H 4^v is repeated at the head of I 1,
     this peculiarity occurring in the other known copies of the first
     edition. 1630.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5). S. 34. 5.

     Collation: A-M⁴, paged. Written by William Shakespeare. The fourth Edition. London,
Printed for William Leak at the Crown in Fleet-street, between the two
Temple Gates, 1655.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅛). R. 22. 1.

     Collation: A-M⁴, paged. Advertisement of books at end. Third
     edition.

The Tragedie of King Richard the second. As it hath beene publikely acted by the right Honourable
the Lorde Chamberlaine his Servants. London Printed by Valentine Simmes for Androw Wise, and
are to be sold at his shop in Paules church yard at the signe of the Angel. 1597.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 4¾). S. 35. 4.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², unpaged. First edition.

   Sinker 804. By
William Shake-speare. London Printed by Valentine Simmes for Andrew
Wise, and are to be sold at his shop in Paules churchyard at the signe
of the Angel. 1598.

4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 22. 5.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged. Second edition.

   Sinker 805. BM 1388.

The Tragedie of King Richard the Second: With new additions of the Parliament Sceane, and the
deposing of King Richard. As it hath been lately acted by the Kinges Maiesties seruants, at
the Globe. By William Shake-speare. At London, Printed for Matthew Law, and are to be sold
at his shop in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the Foxe. 1615.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 19. 2.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Wanting K 4 (? blank). Fourth edition.
     The ‘additions’ first appeared in 1608, in the third edition, with
     which the present copy has been throughout collated in Capell’s
     hand.

   BM 1389. As it hath beene
acted by the Kings Majesties Servants, at the Globe. By William
Shakespeare. London, Printed by Iohn Norton. 1634.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5⅜). R. 20. 5.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Fifth edition.

   BM 1389.

The Tragedie of King Richard the third. Conteining his treacherous Plots against his brother
Clarence: the pitiful murther of his innocent Nephewes: his tyrannicall vsurpation: with the
whole course of his detested life, and most deserued death. 1598.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 22. 4.

     Collation: A-M⁴, unpaged. Wanting M 4 (? blank). Second edition,
     the first having appeared in 1597.

   Sinker 655. Newly
augmented, By William Shakespeare.
1602.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 30. 1. Newly augmented, By William Shake-speare.
London, Printed by Thomas Creede, and are to be sold by Mathew Lawe,
dwelling in Pauls Church-yard, at the Signe of the Foxe, neare S.
Austins gate, 1612.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 19. 3.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Sheets I-M have been supplied from a
     shorter copy. Fifth edition, the fourth having appeared in 1605.

   BM 1389.

The Tragedie of King Richard the third. S. 34. 2.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Sixth edition.

   BM 1389.

The Tragedie of King Richard the third. Newly agmented. By William Shake-speare. London. Printed
by Iohn Norton, and are to be sold by Mathew Law, dwelling in Pauls Church-yeard, at the Signe
of the Foxe, neere S^t. Anstines [sic] gate, 1629.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5). T. 8. 5.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Seventh edition. Written by William Shake-speare. R. 21. 4.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Wanting A 1, containing titlepage.
     Eighth edition.

   BM 1389.

An excellent conceited Tragedie of Romeo and Iuliet. As it hath been often (with great applause)
plaid publiquely, by the right Honourable the L. of Hunsdon his Seruants. London, Printed by
Iohn Danter. 1597.

   4^o (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 20. 2.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Prologue. From
     sheet E onwards a smaller type has been used. First edition.

   Sinker 781. BM 1391.

The most Excellent and Lamentable Tragedie, of Romeo and Juliet. As it hath beene sundrie times
publiquely Acted, by the Kings Maiesties Seruants at the Globe. 1609.

   4^o. (6¾ × 5). T. 8. 2.

     Collation: A-L⁴M², unpaged. Prologue. The third edition, the
     second having appeared in 1599.

   BM 1391.

¦The most Excellent and Lamentable Tragedie of Romeo and Juli¦et. As it hath beene sundrie
times publikely Acted, by the Kings Maiesties Seruants at the Globe. Written by W. Shake-speare.
Newly Corrected, augmented, and amended.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 37. 5.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Prologue pasted over. The copy in the BM
     has a different titlepage, without the author’s name, but is
     otherwise identical. The fourth edition, printed between 1609 and
     1637, not in 1607 as stated in BM catalogue. 1637.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5). S. 34. 1.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. The fifth edition.

   BM 1391.

A Wittie and pleasant Comedie Called The Taming of the Shrew. As it was acted by his Maiesties
Seruants at the Blacke Friers and the Globe. Written by Will. 1631.

   4^o. (7⅝ × 5⅜). Q. 10. 5.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged.

   BM 1392.

The most lamentable Tragedie of Titus Andronicus. As it hath sundry times beene plaide by the
Kings Maiesties Seruants. London, Printed for Eedward [sic] White, and are to be solde at his
shoppe, nere the little North dore of Pauls, at the signe of the Gun. 1611.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 19. 4.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Second edition, the first having
     appeared in 1600.

   BM 40.

The Famous Historie of Troylus and Cresseid. Excellently expressing the beginning of their
loues, with the conceited wooing of Pandarus Prince of Licia. Written by William Shakespeare.
London Imprinted by G. Eld for R. Bonian and H. Walley, and are to be sold at the spred Eagle
in Paules Church-yeard, ouer against the great North doore. 1609.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5). T. 7. 1.

     Collation: ¶²A2-4 B-L⁴M², unpaged. Wanting M 2 (? blank).
     Address to the reader. This is the second issue of the first
     edition, the original titlepage (A 1) being replaced by a
     half-sheet (¶) containing titlepage and address to the reader.

Lucrece, At London, Printed by P. S. for Iohn Harrison. 1598.

   8^o. (4⅞ × 3⅛). *. 19. 1.

     Collation: A-D⁸E⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to Henry
     Wriothesley, Earl of Southampton, signed William Shakespeare.
     Argument. Collated throughout by Capell with the ed. of 1594. No
     other copy of this, the second, edition is known.

   Sinker 774.

Lucrece. At London, Printed be [sic] N. O. for Iohn Harison. 1607.

   8^o. (5⅛ × 3¼). *. 9.

     Collation: A-D⁸, unpaged. (A 4 is misprinted B 4). This is the fourth edition, the
     third having appeared in 1600.

The Passionate Pilgrime. By W. Shakespeare. At London Printed for W. Iaggard, and are to be
sold by W. Leake, at the Greyhound in Paules Churchyard. 1599.

   8^o. (4½ × 3¼). *. 22. 1.

     Collation: A-D⁸, unpaged. A 1 and D 8 blank. Printed on the recto
     of leaves only, except in sigs. D 5-7. Ornament at head and foot of
     each printed page. At sig. C 3 is a separate titlepage: ‘Sonnets To
     sundry notes of Musicke’ with same imprint as above, (in the
     present copy the date has been cut away by the binder). The only
     other copy known which was formerly at Lamport Hall is now at
     Britwell Court. First edition.

   Sinker 801.

Poems: written by Wil. Shake-speare. Gent. Printed at London by Tho. Cotes, and are to be sold
by Iohn Benson dwelling in S^t. Dunstans Church-yard. 1640.

   8^o. (5¼ × 3⅜). *. 10.

     Collation: Portrait unsigned, *⁴A-L⁸M⁴, unpaged. Engraved
     portrait after that by Droeshout, signed W. M. with verses below.
     Address to the reader signed I. B. (i.e. John Benson).
     Commendatory verses signed Leon. Digges and Iohn Warren. Duplicate
     titlepage, as above but without date. At the end of the poems
     purporting to be by Shakespeare appear commendatory verses signed
     I. M. (Milton’s lines from the second folio), W. B. (i.e. William
     Basse; the lines first appeared in Donne’s poems in 1633), and one
     copy unsigned; after which is ‘An Addition of some Excellent Poems,
     to those precedent, of Renowned Shakespeare, By other Gentlemen,’
     of which two are signed B. I. (i.e. Ben Jonson), one F. B.
     (i.e. Francis Beaumont), and one I. G.

   BM 1392.

¦Shake-speares Sonnets. Neuer before Imprinted. At London By G. Eld for T. T. and are to be
solde by Iohn Wright, dwelling at Christ Church gate. 1609.¦

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 36. 5.

     Collation: A²B-K⁴L², unpaged. Wanting A 1-2, B 1, K 2-L2,
     supplied in manuscript by Capell. Dedication to ‘Mr. W. H.’ signed
     T. T. (i.e. Thomas Thorpe the publisher). ‘A Lovers complaint’
     begins on K 1^v. Some copies bear in the imprint the name of
     William Aspley in place of Wright’s name and address.

   BM 1392.

Venus and Adonis.

   Vilia miretur vulgus, mihi flauus Apollo
   Pocula Castalia plena ministret aqua.

London, Printed for I. P. 1620.

   8^o. (4½ × 3¼). *. 22. 2.

     Collation: A-C⁸D⁴, unpaged. Wanting D 4 (? blank), sig. C 7
     slightly defective. The only other copy of
     this edition which has been traced was purchased for the Bodleian,
     but cannot now be found. The ninth edition, the first having
     appeared in 1593. At the end of this volume, which also contains
     the ‘Passionate Pilgrim’ of 1599 is a note in an old handwriting
     ‘Not quite perfect, see 4 or 5 Leaves back; so it cost me but 3
     Half-pence.’

SHAKESPEARIAN PLAYS, PSEUDO.

The True Chronicle Historie of the whole life and death of Thomas Lord Cromwell. As it hath
beene sundry times publikely Acted by the Kings Maiesties Seruants. Written by W. S. London:
Printed by Thomas Snodham. 1613.

   4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 37. 1.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged. Wanting G 4 (? blank). Second edition,
     the first having appeared in 1602.

   BM 1344. No lesse pleasant then profitable. Newly set foorth,
ouerseene and corrected, By W. S. London Printed by Thomas Creede.
1595.

   4^o. (6⅞ × 5⅛). S. 37. 2.

     Collation: A-K, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank).

   Sinker 651. BM 1343.

The London Prodigall. As it was plaide by the Kings Maiesties seruants. By William Shakespeare,
London. Printed by T. C. for Nathaniel Butter, and are to be sold neere S. Austins gate, at
the signe of the pyde Bull. 1605.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 34. 4.

     Collation: A-G⁴, unpaged.

   BM 1393.

The first part Of the true & honorable history, of the Life of Sir Iohn Old-castle, the good
Lord Cobham. As it hath bene lately acted by the Right honorable the Earle of Notingham Lord
High Admirall of England, his Seruants. Written by William Shakespeare. London printed for
T. P. 1600.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 12. 1.

     Collation: A-K⁴, unpaged. Prologue. Two editions appeared in this
     year, the other without author’s name and printed by V. S. for
     Thomas Pavier. The play was the work of Drayton, Hathway, Munday,
     and Wilson.

   Sinker 823. BM 1394. As it hath been diuers and
sundry times acted by his Maiesties Seruants, at the Globe on the
Banck-side. By William Shakespeare. Imprinted at London for Henry
Gosson, and are to be sold at the signe of the Sunne in Pater-noster
row, &c. 1609.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 21. 3.

     Collation: A-I⁴, unpaged. Wanting I 4 (? blank). This is the first
     edition. Another edition appeared later in the same year with
     identically the same titlepage, but it can be distinguished from
     the present by having the stage-direction on A2 misprinted ‘Eneer
     Gower’. On the question of priority see the preface to the ninth
     volume of the Cambridge Shakespeare.

   BM 1391. Written by W. Shakespeare. Printed for T. P. 1619.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 12. 3.

     This forms the third part of the volume, of which ‘The Whole
     Contention’ (q.v.) forms the first two. The signatures are
     continuous throughout the volume and this is the only titlepage
     which is dated. Fourth edition, the third having appeared in 1611.

   BM 1391. Shakespeare: London, Printed by I. N. for
R. B. and are to be sould at his shop in Cheapside, at the signe of the
Bible. 1630.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 5¼). R. 22. 2.

     Collation: A-H⁴I², unpaged. The fifth edition. There was another
     issue of this edition the same year, with a different titlepage in
     which the imprint occupies only two lines instead of four.

   BM 1391. Written by W. Shakespeare. Printed at London by Thomas
Cotes, 1635.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5). R. 23. 4.

     Collation: A-H⁴I², unpaged. Sixth edition.

   BM 1391.

The Puritaine Or the Widdow of Watling-streete. Acted by the Children of Paules. Written by
W. S. Imprinted at London by G. Eld. 1607.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5½). R. 23. 3.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Wanting A 1 (? blank).

   BM 1344.

A Yorkshire Tragedie. Not so New, as Lamentable and True. Written by W. Shakespeare. Printed
for T. P. 1619.

   4^o. (7½ × 5⅝). Q. 11. 1.

     Collation: titlepage unsigned, A-C⁴D², unpaged. The head-title
     runs ‘All’s One, or, One of the four Plaies in one, called a
     Yorkshire Tragedy. As it was plaid by the Kings Maiesties Players.’
     Second edition, the first having appeared in 1608.

   BM 1394.

SHELTON, THOMAS.

The History of Don-Quichote.... n. d. The Second Part of the History of ... Don Quixote....
1620. See CERVANTES SAAVEDRA, Miguel de.

SHIRLEY, JAMES.

The Coronation.... 1640. See BEAUMONT, Francis, and FLETCHER, John.

SIDNEY, Sir PHILIP.

¦An Apologie for Poetrie. Written by the right noble, vertuous, and learned, Sir Phillip Sidney,
Knight. Odi profanum vulgus, et arceo. At London, Printed for Henry Olney, and are to be sold
at his shop in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the George, neere to Cheap-gate. Anno. 1595.¦

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 18. 2.

     Collation: A-L⁴, unpaged. Wanting sig. A and L 4 (A 1 and L4 ?
     blank). The two leaves after the titlepage contain address to the
     reader signed Henry Olney, list of errata, and four sonnets by
     Henry Constable. There appears to have been another issue the same
     year differing in titlepage and preliminary matter only. It is
     entitled ‘The Defence of Poesie’, is printed for William Ponsonby
     and does not contain the Constable sonnets. It was under this title
     and without the sonnets that it was included among the collected
     works in the ‘Arcadia’.

   Sinker 814. BM 1405. Anno Domini,
1590.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 10.

     With the Sidney arms on the titlepage. Collation: A⁴B-2Z⁸, folios
     numbered. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to the Countess
     of Pembroke, signed. Printer’s note. This first edition is
     imperfect, breaking off in the middle of the third book. The
     division into chapters and the arrangement of the verse was the
     work of the ‘ouer-seer of the print’. The edition seems probably to
     have been printed from a corrected copy of the first portion of the
     romance left by Sidney in the hands of Fulke Greville, afterwards
     Lord Brooke (see Greville to Walsingham, August 23, 1586, in the
     State Papers, quoted by O. Sommer in Introd. to facsimile edition,
     1891). The remainder of the romance was made up by the Countess of
     Pembroke from Sidney’s loose papers, and published by Ponsonby in
     1593. The rarity of the present edition suggests that the
     publication of the complete work was intrusted to Ponsonby on
     condition of his recalling the earlier issue. The 1590 edition
     cannot be regarded as surreptitious, but there was an attempt at a
     surreptitious edition in 1586, of which Ponsonby gave warning to
     Greville. This seems to be the only recorded copy having the
     printer’s name on the titlepage, which is otherwise printed from
     the same setting up of the type. The text is identical, but slight
     differences in the type seem to point to the present being the
     earlier issue.

   Sinker 634. BM 1405.

The Countesse Of Pembrokes Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip Sidney Knight. Now the sixt time
published, with some new Additions. Also a supplement of a defect in the third part of this
Historie, By Sir W. Alexander. London, Printed by W. S. for Simon Waterson. 1627.

   F^o. (11¼ × 7½). F. 7.

     Title within ornamental border. Collation: three leaves unsigned,
     A-3F⁶, paged. Epistle dedicatory to the Countess of Pembroke,
     signed. Address to the reader signed H. S. Alexander’s addition
     occupies sigs. 2E 2-2F 5, and at the end is a note signed S. W. A.
     At sig. 2S 2 begins a sixth book with separate titlepage: ‘A sixth
     Booke, to the Countesse of Pembrokes Arcadia: Written by R. B. of
     Lincolnes Inne Esquire. Sat, si bene; si male, nimium. London,
     Printed by H. L. and R. Y. 1628.’. Address to the reader signed R.
     B. (i.e. Richard Beling). At the end of the ‘Arcadia’ are
     Sidney’s miscellaneous poems, ‘Defence of Poesie’, ‘Astrophel and
     Stella’ and the entertainment at Wansted (‘The Lady of May’). This
     is in reality the ninth edition.

SKELTON, JOHN. Nowe collected and newly published. Anno 1568. Imprinted at London in Fletestreate,
neare vnto saint Dunstones churche by Thomas Marshe.¦

   =B. L.= 8^o. (5½ × 3⅝). *. 3.

     Collation: four leaves unsigned (except the third, signed A 4 on
     verso), A-Z⁸ 2A⁴, unpaged. Wanting all before C 7, D 3 and 6, F
     1, 2, 7, K 1-3, L 2, M 1 and 8, N 1-3 and 6, Y 1-5, Z 2-8. (In Dr
     Sinker’s catalogue the defect in sig. Y is erroneously given as 1-4
     and 7.) Latin verses on verso of title. Commendatory verses by
     Churchyard. Table of contents. Three collections under the title of
     ‘certayne bokes cōpyled by Mayster Skelton’ had already appeared
     without date.

   Sinker 315. BM 1409.

SKINNER, STEPHEN.

Etymologicon Linguæ Anglicanæ, Seu Explicatio vocum Anglicarum Etymologica ex propriis fontibus,
scil. ex Linguis duodecim; Anglo-Saxonica seu Anglica prisca, notata AS. Runica, Gothica, Cimbrica,
seu Danica antiqua, notata Run. Dan. Franco-Theotisca, seu Teutonica vetere, notata Fr. Th.
Danica recentiori, notata Dan. rec. Belgica, notata Belg. Teutonica recentiori, notata Teut.
Cambro-Britanica, notata C. Br. Franco-Gallica, notata Fr. Italica, notata It. Hispanica, notata
Hisp. Latina, notata Lat. Græca, notata Gr.... Accedit Etymologicon Botanicum, ... Accedit
& tertio vocum Forensium.... Etymologica expositio, ... Quarto adjectæ sunt Originationes omnium
vocum antiquarum Anglicarum, ... Tandem ultimo Etymologicon Onomasticon, ... Omnia Alphabetico
ordine in quinque distinctas Classes digesta.... Authore Stephano Skinner, M.D. Londini, Typis
T. Roycroft, & prostant venales apud H. Brome sub signo Bombardæ ad occidentale Sancti Pauli
latus, R. Clavel, B. Tooke sub signo Navis Cæmeterio Divi Pauli, & T. Sawbridge sub signo trium
Iridum in Parva Britannia. M DC LXXI.

   F^o. (12 × 8). C. 3.

     Collation: A²a²B-D⁴E-V²2A-5V⁴5X², unpaged. License on
     verso of leaf before titlepage, signed Jo. Cooke and dated Sept. 7,
     1668. Address to the reader. Præfatio. Prolegomena Etymologica.
     Each part begins with a head-title.

SMITH, Sir THOMAS.

De recta & emendata Linguæ Anglicæ Scriptione, Dialogus, Thoma Smitho Equestris ordinis Anglo
authore. Lutetiæ, Ex officina Roberti Stephani Typographi Regij. M. D. LX VIII. Cum Priuilegio
Regis. [Colophon] Exeudebat Robertus Stephanus Typographus Regius, Lutetiæ Parisiorum Idib.
Nouembris, Ann. M. D. LXVII.

   4^o. (8¾ × 6¼). M. 2. 1.

     Collation: *²a-l⁴, folios numbered.

De recta & emendata Linguæ Græcæ Pronuntiatione, Thomæ Smithi Angli, tunc in Academia Cantabrigiensi
publici prælectoris, ad Vintoniensem Episcopum Epistola. Lutetiæ, Ex officina Roberti Stephani
Typographi Regij. M.D. LXVIII. Cum Priuilegio Regis.

   4^o. (8¾ × 6¼). M. 2. 2.

     Collation: 2 leaves unsigned (second blank) A-M⁴; folios numbered.
     Signed at the end: ‘Cantabrigiæ 12. Augusti. 1542. Tho. Smithus.’

SOLINUS, JULIUS.

The excellent and pleasant worke of Iulius Solinus Polyhistor. Contayning the noble actions
of humaine creatures, the secretes & prouidence of nature, the description of Countries, the
maners of the people: with many meruailous things and strange antiquities, seruing for the
benefitt and recreation of all sorts of persons. Translated out of Latin into English, by Arthur
Golding, Gent. At London Printed by I. Charlewoode for Thomas Hacket. 1587.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). T. 1. 3.

     Collation: A-2F⁴2G² (without Z), unpaged. Life of Solinus by
     Iohn Camertes. Solinus’ address to Autius. Epistle dedicatory to
     the same.

   Sinker 366. BM 1425.

SOUTHWELL, ROBERT.

Saint Peters Complaint, With other Poemes. London Imprinted by Iohn Wolfe. 1595.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 18. 1.

     Collation: A-I⁴K², paged. Epistle dedicatory ‘The Author to his
     louing Cosen’. Verses to the reader (two copies). ‘Saint Peter’s
     Complaint’ ends sheet E, after which follow the miscellaneous
     poems. By Robert Southwell whose initials appear on the titlepage
     of some of the later editions. The first edition was probably that
     published the same year as printed by I[ames]. R[oberts]. for
     G[abriel]. C[awood]. and of which the present appears to be a
     piratical reprint.

   Sinker 608.

Mœoniæ. Or, certaine excellent Poems and spirituall Hymnes: Omitted in the last Impression
of Peters Complaint; being needefull thereunto to be annexed, as being both Diuine and Wittie.
All composed by R. S. London Printed by Valentine Sims, for Iohn Busbie 1595.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 18. 2.

     Collation: A²B-E⁴, paged. Ornament at the foot of each page.
     Address to the reader, signed I. B. (i.e. John Busbie). By Robert
     Southwell. The poems in this volume were added to the later
     editions of ‘Saint Peter’s Complaint’.

   Sinker 802. BM 1341.

SPENSER, EDMUND.

Amoretti and Epithalamion. Written not long since by Edmunde Spenser. Printed for William Ponsonby.
1595. [Colophon] Imprinted by P. S. for William Ponsonby.

   8^o. (4⅞ × 3). *. 18.

     Collation: A-H⁸, unpaged. Ornament at head and foot of each page.
     Part ii. has a separate titlepage with the word ‘Epithalamion’ and
     printer’s device but no imprint, at sig. G 3. Certain copies have a
     half-sheet (4 leaves) with sig. ¶ inserted between A 1 and 2, but
     it is possible that some were issued without this addition. The
     half-sheet contains an epistle dedicatory to Sir Robert Needham
     Knight, signed with the stationer’s initials and commendatory
     verses from G. W. senior and G. W. I[unior].

   Sinker 770. BM 1438.

Colin Clouts Come home againe. By Ed. Spencer. London Printed for William Ponsonbie. 1595.

   4^o. (7¾ × 5½). Q. 10. 2.

     Collation: A-H⁴, unpaged. Epistle dedicatory to Sir Walter
     Raleigh, signed Ed. Sp. and dated, Kilcolman, Dec. 27, 1591.
     ‘Astrophel’, with half-title and dedicated to the Countess of
     Essex, begins on sig. E 4.

   Sinker 650. BM 1438.

Complaints. Containing sundrie small Poemes of the Worlds Vanitie. Whereof the next Page maketh
mention. By Ed. Sp. London. Imprinted for William Ponsonbie, dwelling in Paules Churchyard
at the signe of the Bishops head. 1591.

   4^o. (7⅛ × 4¾). S. 29. 1.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A-Z⁴, unpaged. Z 4 blank.
     List of contents on verso of general titlepage. Printer’s address
     to the reader. Epistle dedicatory to the Countess of Pembroke,
     signed E. S. ‘The Ruines of Time’. ‘The Teares of the Muses’ with
     separate title dated 1591 within same border. Epistle dedicatory to
     Lady Strange, signed Ed. Sp. ‘Vergils Gnat’ with dedicatory verses
     to the Earl of Leicester. ‘Prosopopoia. Sp. ‘The
     Ruines of Rome: by Bellay’. ‘Muiopotmos, Or The Fate of the
     Butterflie’ with separate title dated 1590 within same border.
     Epistle dedicatory to Lady Carey, signed E. S. ‘Visions of the
     worlds vanitie’. ‘The Visions of Bellay’. ‘The Visions of Petrarch
     formerly translated’.

   Sinker 724. BM 1429.

The Faerie Queene. Disposed into twelue books, Fashioning XII. Morall vertues. London Printed
for William Ponsonbie. 1590.

   4^o. (7 × 5). S. 19.

     Collation: A-2P⁸2Q⁴, paged. Dedication to Queen Elizabeth signed
     Ed. Spenser, on verso of titlepage. Books I-III. Letter to Raleigh
     signed and dated Jan. 23, 1589. Commendatory verses signed W. R.
     (i.e. Walter Raleigh), Hobynoll (i.e. Gabriel Harvey), R. S.,
     H. B., W. L., Ignoto. Dedicatory verses from the author to Sir
     Christopher Hatton, the Earl of Essex, the Earl of Oxford, the Earl
     of Northumberland, the Earl of Ormond and Ossory, Lord Charles
     Howard, Lord Grey of Wilton, Sir Walter Raleigh, Lady Carew, ‘To
     all the gracious and beautifull Ladies in the Court’, the last two
     only signed E. S. Errata. More dedicatory verses (mostly duplicates
     of the above) to Hatton (dupl.), Lord Burleigh (signed E. S.),
     Oxford (dupl.), Northumberland (dupl.), Earl of Cumberland (signed
     E. S.), Essex (dupl.), Ormond (dupl.), Howard (dupl.), Lord Hunsdon
     (signed E. S.), Grey (dupl.), Lord Buckhurst, Sir Fr. Walsingham,
     (signed E. S.), Sir John Norris (signed E. S.), Raleigh (dupl.
     signed E. S.), Countess of Pembroke (signed E. S.). On M 5^v is a
     large woodcut of St George and the dragon at beginning of Book II.
     On X 7^v spaces have been left for the insertion of some Welsh
     words. These were filled up in the later copies and in the edition
     of 1596. The printer was John Wolfe, whose device appears on the
     titlepage. The first edition of Books I-III.

   Sinker 598. BM 1438.

The Faerie Queene. 1596.

   4^o. (7⅜ × 5¼). R. 6.

     Collation: A-2O⁸, paged. Dedication to Queen Elizabeth on verso of
     titlepage. At the end of the volume are verses signed W. R. (i.e.
     Walter Raleigh) and Hobynoll (i.e. Gabriel Harvey). Large woodcut
     of St George and the dragon on M 5^v at beginning of Book II, as in
     the former edition. The printer was Richard Field, whose device
     appears on the titlepage. The second edition of Books I-III.

   Sinker 747. BM 1438.

The second Part of the Faerie Queene. Containing The Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Bookes. By Ed.
Spenser. Imprinted at London for William Ponsonby. 1596.

   4^o. (7⅜ × 5¼). R. 7.

     Collation: A-2I⁸2K⁴, paged. Printed by Richard Field, with his
     device on the titlepage. The first edition of Books IV-VI.

   Sinker 748. BM 1438.

[Another copy.]

   (7 × 5). S. 18. 1.

The Faerie Queene, disposed into XII. Bookes, Fashioning twelue Morall Vertues. At London.
Printed by H. L. for Mathew Lownes. 1609.

   F^o. (10½ × 7¼). G. 3. 1.

     Collation: A-2H⁶2I⁴, paged. 2I 4 blank. Double columns.
     Dedication to Queen Elizabeth on verso of titlepage. Bks. I-III. ‘The Second Part of the Faery
     Queene’, containing Bks. IV-VI, begins at sig. Q5 with separate
     titlepage ‘Imprinted at London for Mathew Lownes. 1609.’. The
     fragment of the seventh book ‘Of Mutability’ first appears in this
     edition with head-title at sig. 2H 4. The copy described in the
     Huth catalogue, which has the date in the colophon printed ‘16012’
     belongs, as the collation shows, to the edition of 1611, and can
     only have the earlier titlepage prefixed. The copy of the ‘Faery
     Queen’ on the other hand in the collected edition of 1611, there
     described, is properly that of 1609.

   BM 1439.

The Faerie Queen: The Shepheards Calendar: Together with the other Works of England’s Arch-Poët,
Edm. Spenser: Collected into one Volume, and carefully corrected. Printed by H. L. for Mathew
Lownes. Anno Dom. 1611.

   F^o. (11¼ × 7¼). F. 5.

     Title within woodcut border originally used in 1593 for Sidney’s
     ‘Arcadia’. Collation: A⁶, with two unsigned leaves inserted after
     A 1, B-P⁶Q⁴R-2H⁶; ¶⁸; A-E⁶F⁴; A⁸; A-L⁶M²; first alphabet
     only paged. 2H 6, ¶ 8 and F 4 (second alphabet) blank. Wanting A 1
     (first alphabet) (? blank). Double columns. Titlepage and
     dedication to Queen Elizabeth occupying unsigned sheet. ‘Faery
     Queen’ Bks I-III, with commendatory verses signed W. R. (i.e. W.
     Raleigh) and Hobynoll (i.e. G. Harvey) at the end. Bks IV-VI,
     with separate titlepage ‘Imprinted at London for Mathew Lownes.
     Anno Dom. 1613.’ (Some copies, vide infra, have the date 1612,
     but the difference is in the last figure alone). Bk VII begins with
     head-title at sig. 2G 6. At the end of this portion appears a
     colophon with the date printed ‘16012’, followed by one blank leaf.
     The quire signed ¶ containing letter to Sir Walter Raleigh signed
     Edm. Spenser and dated Jan. 23, 1589, followed by commendatory
     verses signed W. R., Hobbynoll (these two same as above), R. S., H.
     B., W. L., and Ignoto. Also dedicatory verses to Sir Christopher
     Hatton, Lord Burleigh, Earl of Oxford, Earl of Northumberland, Earl
     of Cumberland, Earl of Essex, Earl of Ormond and Ossory, Lord Ch.
     Howard, Lord Hunsdon, Lord Grey of Wilton, Lord Buckhurst, Sir Fr.
     Walsingham, Sir Joh. Norris, Sir Wal. Raleigh and the Countess of
     Pembroke, each signed E. S., followed by one blank leaf. The second
     alphabet contains the ‘Shepherds Calender’. Separate titlepage with
     imprint ‘At London, Printed by H. L. for Mathew Lownes, and are to
     be sold at the signe of the Bishops head in Paules Church-yard.
     1611’. Contents as in separate edition, with same woodcuts. One
     leaf blank at end. The single quire A contains ‘Prosopopoia’ with
     separate titlepage bearing imprint ‘At London, Printed by H. L. for
     Mathew Lownes. Anno Dom. 1613’. The signatures are continuous
     throughout the remainder of the volume. ‘Colin Clout’ with separate
     titlepage having imprint without date. ‘Prothalamion’ ‘Amoretti’
     ‘Epitalamion’ ‘Hymnes’ ‘Daphnaida’ ‘Complaints’ and ‘Muiopotmos’
     have each a separate titlepage with imprint dated 1611. Some copies
     of the present volume appear to have been issued containing the
     1609 edition of the ‘Faery Queen’; copies in this state are in the
     Cambridge University and Huth Libraries.

   BM 1438.
1617.

   F^o. (11 × 7⅜). F. 6.

     Title within woodcut border as above. Collation: A⁶, with two
     unsigned leaves inserted after A 1, B-P⁶Q⁴R-2H⁶; ¶⁸; A-E⁶F⁴;
     A⁸; A-L⁶M², paged in first alphabet only. A 1, 2H 6 (first
     alphabet), ¶ 8 and F 4 (second alphabet), blank. Double columns. In
     this copy the quire signed ¶ is misplaced after the second
     alphabet, an arrangement also found in the copy in the Cambridge
     University Library. It is sometimes found at the end of the volume.
     The inserted sheet contains titlepage and dedication to Queen
     Elizabeth. The ‘Faery Queen’ is the same edition as above (1611),
     but has the date 1612 on the titlepage to Part II; so also is sig.
     ¶ and the single quire A containing the ‘Prosopopoia’. The
     remainder is a very close reprint, the contents and collation being
     identical. The separate titlepages have dates as follows (they are
     all printed ‘by H. L. for Mathew Lownes’ except the first):
     ‘Shepheards Calender’ with imprint ‘London, Printed by Bar: Alsop
     for Iohn Harrison the elder, and are to bee solde at his shop at
     the signe of the golden Anker in Pater Noster Row, 1617.’; ‘Colin
     Clout’ undated, ‘Prothalamion’ etc. 1617. The peculiarities
     observable in the various copies of the collected editions of 1611
     and 1617 are best explained on the following hypothesis. On Sept.
     3, 1604 W. Ponsonby assigned his right in both parts of the ‘Faery
     Queene’ to S. Waterson, who on Nov. 5 in the same year passed it on
     to M. Lownes, who published an edition in 1609. Two years later the
     question of a collected edition of Spenser’s works arose. Lownes
     caused a complete edition to be printed, and at the same time
     determined to use up the remaining copies of the 1609 ‘Faery
     Queen’. Instead however of printing the new titlepage on A 1 he
     caused a single sheet to be printed containing title and
     dedication, which could be substituted for the 1609 title. A 1
     consequently remained blank in the new edition as it is found in
     the present copy, and the title-sheet was inserted after it. The
     result of using up the 1609 edition was that the stock of some of
     the additional matter in the 1611 edition was exhausted before the
     stock of the ‘Faery Queen’. In 1617 a new title-sheet was printed
     and prefixed to the remainder stock, the additional pieces being
     reprinted when necessary. Even now some of the original copies of
     1609 remained and were issued with the general title and additional
     matter dated 1617. A copy in this state is in the Library. The
     first part to run out was the fourth alphabet containing ‘Colin
     Clout’ etc., which is always found reprinted in copies having the
     1617 titlepage. Perhaps the next was the ‘Prosopopoia’ which is
     found dated 1613 in the present copy, but which is undated in the
     copy in the Cambridge University Library. This last-mentioned copy
     however has the original edition of the ‘Shepherds Calender’ dated
     1611, while the present copy has the reprint of 1617. How this came
     to bear the imprint given above requires explanation. The editions
     of the ‘Calender’ of 1581 to 1597 were all printed for John
     Harrison the younger (i.e. John Harrison II) and he probably
     objected when Lownes issued the work with his own name as publisher
     in the collected edition of 1611. Before the reprint however was
     required John Harrison the elder (i.e. John Harrison I) either
     died or retired from business (1616), whereupon John Harrison II
     assumed the style of ‘the elder’ to distinguish himself from a John
     Harrison IV who had started business in 1603.

   BM 1438.

The Shepheardes Calender Conteyning twelue Æglogues proportionable to the twelue monethes.
Entitled to the noble and vertuous Gentleman most worthy of all titles both of learning and
cheualrie M. Philip Sidney. At London. Printed by Hugh Singleton, dwelling in Creede Lane neere
vnto Ludgate at the signe of the gylden Tunne, and are there to be solde. 1579.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6¾ × 4⅝). T. 9. 1.

     Collation: ¶⁴A-N⁴, folios numbered. Verses ‘To his Booke’, signed
     Immeritò, on verso of title. Epistle to Gabriel Harvey, signed E.
     K. (i.e. Edward Kirke?), with postscript dated April 10, 1579.
     General argument. Twelve eclogues with arguments and glosses by E.
     K. and woodcut to each. First edition.

   Sinker 293. BM 880.
Imprinted at London for Iohn Harison the younger, dwelling in Pater
noster Roe, at the signe of the Anker, and are there to be solde.
[Colophon] Imprinted at London by Thomas East, for Iohn Harrison the
younger, dwelling in Pater noster Roe, at the signe of the Anker, and
are there to bee solde. 1581.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅞ × 5¼). T. 6.

     Collation: **⁴A-N⁴, folios numbered. Contents as before. Second
     edition.

   Sinker 427. Imprinted at London by Iohn Wolfe for Iohn Harrison the yonger,
dwelling in Pater noster Roe, at the signe of the Anker. 1586. 1586.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¾ × 5¾). Q. 9. 2.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: four leaves unsigned,
     A-N⁴, folios numbered. Contents as before. Third edition.

   Sinker 589.

The Shepheards Calender. Conteining twelue Aeglogues proportionable to the twelue Monethes. 1591.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅛ × 5). S. 29. 3.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: *⁴A-N⁴, folios numbered.
     Contents as before. Fourth edition.

   Sinker 636. BM 880.

STEPHENS, JOHN.
                    Theophras.
   Aspice & hæc: si fortè aliquid decoctius audis.
   Inde vaporata Lector mihi ferueat aure: Iuuen.
             Plagosus minimè Plagiarius. 1615.

   8^o. (5¾ × 3⅝). Z. 3. 1.

     Collation: A-X⁸, paged. Wanting A 1 (? blank). Epistle dedicatory
     to Thomas Turner Esquire, signed I. S. Address ‘To the People’.
     Table of Contents. Verses headed ‘A Caution’. Commendatory verses
     signed Antho. Croftes. First edition; a second appearing the same
     year. The author’s ‘New Essayes and Characters’ appeared in 1631.

   BM 1447.

STOW, JOHN.

The Annales of England, faithfully collected out of the most autenticall Authors, Records,
and other Monuments of Antiquitie, from the first inhabitation vntill this present yeere 1592
By Iohn Stow citizen of London. Imprinted at London by Ralfe Newbery. Cum priuilegio Regiæ
maiestatis.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (8 × 6). P. 5.

     Title within woodcut border representing a genealogical tree of the
     sovereigns of England from Edward III to Elizabeth. Collation:
     a-c⁴A-4P⁸4Q⁶ (omitting all Z’s), paged. Wanting 4Q 6 (?
     blank). Author’s epistle dedicatory to the Archbishop of Canterbury
     dated May 26, 1592. Preface to the reader. List of authorities.
     Alphabetical table. Erratum concerning Oxford colleges. Annals,
     preceded by description of England etc., and followed by
     description of the Universities and list of errata. The first
     quarto edition appeared under the title of the ‘Chronicles of
     England’ in 1580, enlarged apparently from the ‘Summarie of
     Englyshe Chronicles’ first printed in octavo in 1565. The present
     is the second edition in quarto.

   Sinker 355. BM 1453. M. 1.

     Title within woodcut border as above. Collation: a-c⁴A-4Q⁸4R⁴
     (omitting all Z’s), paged. Contents as before, omitting the two
     errata. The Epistle dedicatory to the Archbishop of Canterbury is
     dated November 24, 1600.

Annales, or, a generall Chronicle of England. Begun by Iohn Stow: Continued and Augmented with
matters Forraigne and Domestique, Ancient and Moderne, vnto the end of this present yeere,
1631. By Edmund Howes, Gent. Londini, Impensis Richardi Meighen, 1631. [Colophon] London, Printed
by A. M. for Richard Meighen, and are to bee sold at his Shop at the Middle Temple Gate, neere
Templebarre in Fleetstreet. 1632.

   =B. L.= F^o. (12¾ × 8½). B. 3.

     Title within woodcut border (the date cut, not printed). Collation:
     *²¶⁸A-4M⁶4N²4n⁴4O-4p⁶4Q⁴4R⁶4S⁸, paged. Double
     columns. Wanting 4S 8 (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to the King
     (i.e. Charles I.), signed Edmond Howes. Epistle to the reader
     signed by the same. ‘An Historical Preface’. At sig. 4n 1 is a
     separate titlepage to an Appendix on the Universities of Cambridge,
     Oxford and London, the two former by Stow, the last ‘Collected and
     Written by Sir George Buck’. This titlepage has the imprint
     ‘London: Printed by Aug. Matthewes, for Richard Meighen. 1632’.
     Then follows an address to the reader signed by Howes. The account
     of ‘The Third Vniversitie of England’ again has a separate
     titlepage on 4O 1, with a similar imprint, dated 1631. Then follow:
     Latin verses on London; Epistle dedicatory to Sir Edward Coke
     signed George Buc, and dated ‘his Maiesties Office of the Reuels,
     vpon Saint Peters hill’, Aug. 24, 1612; and a catalogue of all the
     subjects taught at the University of London. At the end is a
     passage from Drayton’s ‘Poly-olbion’, a letter to the Lord Mayor
     and Aldermen of London signed Edmond Howes, and an alphabetical
     Table. This appears to be the fifth and last edition.

   BM 1454.

A Suruay of London. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description
of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie
(or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof.
With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: Written by William
Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Imprinted by Iohn Wolfe, Printer to the honorable
Citie of London: And are to be sold at his shop within the Popes head Alley in Lombard street.
1598.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅜ × 5⅝). S. 21.

     Collation: A⁴B-2G⁸2H^{10}; paged. Epistle dedicatory by Stow to
     the Lord Mayor (i.e. Stephen Some) and citizens of London. Table
     of contents. List of errata at the end.

   Sinker 613. BM 1454.

A Suruay of London.... 1599.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7⅜ × 5⅝). R. 4.

     A duplicate of the above except for the alteration in the date.

   Sinker 614.

STRAPAROLA, GIOVANNI FRANCESCO.

Le piaceuoli Notti di M. Giouanfrancesco Straparola da Carauaggio. Nelle quali si contengono
le Fauole con i loro Enimmi da dieci donne, & duo giouani raccontate. Nuouamente ristampate,
& con diligenza rauuedute. Libro primo. [Libro secondo.] In Venetia, Appresso Iseppo di Mantelli
M. D. LXVII.

   2 vols. 8^o. (5⅞ × 3⅝). Z. 1.

     Collation: vol. I, A-X⁸, FOLIOS NUMBERED; VOL. II, 2A-2T⁸2V²,
     folios numbered. ‘Proemio’ to vol. JOSUAH.

Du Bartas his Deuine Weekes, and Workes.... 1641. See DU BARTAS, Guillaume de Saluste.

TASSO, TORQUATO.

Godfrey of Bulloigne, or The Recouerie of Ierusalem. Done into English Heroicall verse, by
Edward Fairefax Gent. Imprinted at London by Ar. Hatfield, for I. Iaggard and M. Lownes. 1600

   F^o. (10 × 6¼). H. 4.

     Collation: A⁴B-2K⁶2L⁴, paged. Dedicatory verses to Queen
     Elizabeth signed by the translator. ‘The Allegorie of the Poem’. A
     cancel slip is inserted on B 1, containing a different rendering of
     the first stanza. First edition of the translation by Fairfax. The
     second edition, 1624, follows the original, not the cancel, in the
     rendering of the first stanza. A translation of cantos i-v by
     Richard Carew had appeared in 1594. At the end of the ‘Allegory’ in
     the present copy are six lines of blank verse in Capell’s
     handwriting and subscribed with his initials. They are a
     translation of the second stanza of the first book.

   Sinker 666. BM 700.

TAVERNER, RICHARD.

Prouerbes or Adagies, gathered oute of the Chiliades of Erasmus.... 1552. See ERASMUS, Desiderius.

TAYLOR, JOHN.

Taylor’s Motto. Et habeo, Et Careo, Et Curo. London Printed for I T & H G, 1621.

   8^o. (6½ × 4¼). X. 4. 3.

     Titlepage engraved. Collation: A⁸ with titlepage inserted after A
     2, B-D⁸E⁴, unpaged. A 1 blank. Explanation of titlepage in verse,
     signed Iohn Taylor on A 2^v. Verses ‘To Euery Body’, signed.
     According to Mr Hazlitt at least three editions appeared during the
     year.

   BM 1484.

THOMAS, WILLIAM.

The Historye of Italye. A booke exceding profitable to be red: because it intreateth of the
astate of many and dyuers common weales, how they haue bene, and now be gouerned. Imprinted
at London in Fletestrete nere to Saicnt [sic] Dunstons Church by Thomas Marshe. [Colophon adds]
Anno Domini. 1561.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5⅛). S. 7. 1.

    Title within woodcut border. Collation: A⁴[bullet]⁴A-3I⁴, folios
    numbered, except in sheet T which contains Table of Popes and of
    which the last leaf is blank. Wanting A 4 of preliminary sheet (?
    blank). Table of contents. Epistle dedicatory to Iohn Erle of
    Warrewicke, signed by the author Wylliam Thomas and dated London
    Sept. 20, 1549. Alphabetical table. ‘Conclusion’ at the end. Thomas
    was clerk of the Council to Edward VI. Second edition, the first
    having appeared in 1549.

   Sinker 308. BM 1494.

TOFTE, ROBERT.

Ariostos seuen Planets Governing Italie ... 1611. See ARIOSTO, Lodovico.

TOM TYLER.

Tom Tyler and His Wife. An excellent old play, as It was Printed and Acted about a hundred
Years ago. The second Impression. London, Printed in the Year, 1661.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 23. 1.

     Collation: A-C⁴D²; A-B⁸, paged. Personae. Prologue. A Catalogue
     of Plays with fresh pagination occupies last two sheets. No earlier
     edition is known.

TURBERVILLE, GEORGE.

The Heroycall Epistles of ... Publius Ouidius Naso ... 1567. See OVIDIUS NASO, Publius.

¦Epitaphes, Epigrams, Songs and Sonets, with a Discourse of the Friendly affections of Tymetes
to Pyndara his Ladie. Newly corrected with additions, and set out by George Turberuile Gentleman.
1570. Cum Priuilegio.

   8^o. =B. L.= (5½ × 3⅞). Z. 10.

     Collation: A-V⁸, folios numbered. Wanting sig. A, containing
     titlepage; epistle dedicatory to Anne, Countess of Warwick, signed;
     address to the reader, signed; and verses ‘To the Rayling Route of
     Sycophants.’ Table of contents beginning on B 1^v. Dudley crest
     within garter of the order (for Ambrose, Earl of Warwick) with date
     1570; below a lion passant charged with a crescent for difference.
     Verses subscribed. Verses on Anne Countess of Warwick. Argument in
     verse. At end, ‘The Authours Epilogue’. Of the first edition,
     before 1567, only a fragment is known; of the second, 1567, an
     imperfect copy is preserved in the Bodleian; the present is the
     third.

   Sinker 335.

VERGILIUS MARO, PUBLIUS.

The.xiii. Bukes of Eneados of the famose Poete Virgill Translatet out of Latyne verses into
Scottish metir, bi the Reuerend Father in God, Mayster Gawin Douglas Bishop of Dunkel & vnkil
to the Erle of Angus. Euery buke hauing hys perticular Prologe. Imprinted at Londō 1553.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (8⅜ × 6). O. 2.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A²B-Z⁸a-z⁸2a-2b⁸;
     with one unsigned leaf inserted after X 3. A 1 and 2b 8 wanting (?
     blank). Printed by William Copeland.

   Sinker 198. BM 1544.

The.xiii. Bookes of Æneidos. The first twelue beeinge the woorke of the diuine Poet Virgil
Maro, and the thirtenth the supplement of Maphæus Vegius. Translated into English verse to
the fyrst thirdpart of the tenth Booke, by Thomas Phaër Esquire: and the residue finished,
and now the second time newly set forth for the delite of such as are studious in Poetrie:
By Thomas Twyne, Doctor in Physicke. Imprinted at London by William How, for Abraham Veale,
dwelling in Paules Church yeard, at the signe of the Lambe. 1584.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 26.

     Collation: four leaves unsigned, A-V⁸X⁴, unpaged. Wanting X 4 (?
     blank). Epistle dedicatory to Robert Sackevill son of Lord
     Buckhurst, signed Thomas Twyne, and dated Lewis, Jan. 1, 1584.
     Address to the readers, signed. Life of Vergil translated from
     Aelius Donatus. Arguments to the thirteen books in verse. General
     summary. At the end of Book xii is Phaer’s prose conclusion. Each
     book is signed and dated by the translator, the work being
     concluded on July 6, 1573. The ‘seuen first bookes’ appeared in
     1558, the ‘nyne fyrst Bookes’ in 1562, the ‘whole xii. Bookes’ in
     1573, the thirteenth book was first added in the edition of 1583,
     having been finished by Twyne on Oct. 26 of that year. The present
     is the second edition of the completed work.

   Sinker 438. BM 1545.

UGUBIO, ANDREA ZENOPHONTE DA.

Formulario nuouo da dittar Lettere amorose messiue & responsiue. Composto per Andrea Zenophonte
da Vgubio. Opera nuoua intitolata Flos Amoris. MDXLIIII. [Colophon] In Vinegia per Francesco
Bindoni & Mapheo Pasini compagni. 1544.

   8^o. (5½ × 3¾). Z. 7. 3.

     Title within woodcut border. Collation: A-C⁸, unpaged. There was a
     previous edition in 1531.

UNDERDOWNE, THOMAS.

An Æthiopian Historie.... 1587. See HELIODORUS.

UPTON, JOHN. M, DCC, XLVI.

   8^o. (8⅛ × 4⅞). P. 16.

     Dedicated to the Earl of Granville. Reprinted with omission of the
     ‘Reverie’ (pp. 139-48) in 1748.

URQUART, Sir THOMAS.

Epigrams, Divine and Morall. By Sir Thomas Vrchard, Knight. 1646.

   4^o. (7 × 5¼). S. 32. 1.

     Collation: A-I⁴, paged. Wanting A 1 (Portrait by Glover) and I 4
     (? blank). Epistle dedicatory to Iames, Marques of Hamilton, signed
     by the author. Text in three books. Doxology. Errata. Printer’s
     address to the reader. Imprimatur signed Johannes Hansley, March
     15, 1646. At the end of the text is the note ‘Here end the first
     three Bookes of Sir Thomas Vrchards Epigrams’. No more however
     appeared. This is said to be a re-issue of an edition of 1641, but
     if so the last leaf as well as the titlepage must be a cancel.

WALPOLE, HORACE. M. DCC. LXVIII.

   4^o. (9½ × 7⅜). I. 3. 1.

     With portraits of Richard and his Queen engraved by Grignion after
     Vertue.

WARNER, WILLIAM.

Albions England. A Continued Historie of the same Kingdome, from the Originals of the first
Inhabitants thereof: With most the chiefe Alterations and Accidents theare hapning, vnto, and
in the happie Raigne of our now most gracious Soueraigne, Queene Elizabeth: Not barren in varietie
of inuentiue and historicall Intermixtures: First penned and published by William Warner: and
now reuised, and newly inlarged by the same Author: Whereunto is also newly added an Epitome
of the whole Historie of England. London, Printed by Edm. Bollifant for George Potter, and
are to be sold at his shop in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the Bible. 1602.

   4^o. (7¼ × 5¼). R. 9.

     Collation: A-2C⁸, paged. Wanting 2C 8 (? blank). Epistle
     dedicatory to Henry Carey, Baron of Hunsdon, signed. Address to the
     reader signed W. W. Table of contents. Text in thirteen books. ‘A
     Breuiate of the true Historic of Æneas’ in prose as an addition to
     Bk. ii. Epitome of the history of England with address to the
     reader. The first part originally appeared in 1586. In the second
     edition, 1589, a second part was added. The third edition with
     continuation appeared in 1592. In 1596 appeared a fourth, revised
     and enlarged, which was re-issued with a new titlepage the
     following year. The present edition of 1602 was the fifth and was
     the first one containing all thirteen books. A ‘Continuance’
     appeared in 1606 and was incorporated in the final edition of 1612,
     making sixteen books in all.

   BM 1570.

WATSON, THOMAS.

An Ould facioned Loue. Or a loue of the Ould facion. By I. T. gent. At
London Printed by P. S. for William Mattes, dwelling in fleetstrete at
the signe of the hand and plough. 1594. As
     appears from this address the work is a translation of Thomas
     Watson’s Latin ‘Amyntae Gaudia’. It consists of five ‘Epistles’,
     some in four-line, some in six-line stanzas, with a final ‘Answer
     of Phillis to Amintas by the Translator’ in six-line stanzas.
     Watson’s work contained eighteen epistles in all, of which only the
     first five are here translated. Watson’s work appeared in 1592.

   Sinker 768.

WHETSTONE, GEORGE.

The Right Excellent and famous Historye, of Promos and Cassandra: Deuided into two Commicall
Discourses. In the fyrste parte is showne, the vnsufferable abuse, of a lewde Magistrate: The
vertuous behauiours of a chaste Ladye: The vncontrowled leawdenes of a fauoured Curtisan. And
the vndeserued estimation of a pernicious Parasyte. In the second parte is discoursed, the
perfect magnanimitye of a noble Kinge, in checking Vice and fauouringe Vertue: Wherein is showne,
the Ruyne and ouerthrowe, of dishonest practises: with the aduauncement of vpright dealing.
The worke of George Whetstones Gent. Formæ nulla fides. [Colophon] Imprinted at London by Richarde
Ihones, and are to be solde ouer agaynst Saint Sepulchres Church, without Newgate. August.
20. 1578.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (6⅝ × 4⅞). T. 9. Printer’s address to the reader, signed R. I.
     Argument. Part II has a separate titlepage within woodcut border,
     ‘The seconde part of the Famous Historie of Promos and Cassandra.
     Set forth in a Comical Discourse by George Whetstone Gent. Formæ
     nulla fides.’

   Sinker 466. BM 1584.

The Rocke of Regard, diuided into foure parts. The first, the Castle of delight: Wherin is
reported, the wretched end of wanton and dissolute liuing. The second, the Garden of Vnthriftinesse:
Wherein are many sweete flowers, (or rather fancies) of honest loue. The thirde, the Arbour
of Vertue: Wherein slaunder is highly punished, and vertuous Ladies and Gentlewomen, worthily
commended. The fourth, the Ortchard of Repentance: Wherein are discoursed, the miseries that
followe dicing, the mischiefes of quareling, the fall of prodigalitie: and the souden ouerthrowe
of foure notable cousners, with diuers other morall, natural, & tragical discourses: documents
and admonitions: being all the inuention, collection and translation of George Whetstons Gent.
Formæ nulla fides. [Colophon] Imprinted at London for Robert Waley. Anno. 1576.

   =B. L.= 4^o. (7¼ × 5⅜). R. 12. 2.

     Collation: ¶⁴2¶²A-G⁸H-I⁴K-Q⁸R⁴, paged in two portions
     beginning with sigs. A and K respectively. Epistle dedicatory from
     the author ‘To all the young Gentlemen of England’, dated ‘From my
     lodging in Holborne’, October 15, 1576. Address to the reader.
     Commendatory verses from Nicholas Bowyer, R. C., Humphrey Turner,
     Abraham Fleming, John Wytton. Argument to ‘the Countesse of Celants
     complaint’, the first poem in ‘The Castle of Delight’. The four
     parts begin each with separate half-title, at sigs. A 1, D 8, G 4
     and K 1 respectively. Each part has an epilogue in verse. Part III
     has an epistle dedicatory to Lady Iana Sibilla Greye; Part IV, to
     Sir Thomas Cecill, each signed and dated as before. Part IV
     contains three poems by R. C., who may have been Robert Cudden of
     Gray’s Inn, a kinsman of Whetstone, at whose request one of his
     poems in this part was written. On the verso of the titlepage and
     on several other leaves is writing in an early English hand.

   Sinker 545. BM 1584.

WHITNEY, GEFFREY.

A Choice of Emblemes, and other Deuises, For the moste parte gathered out of sundrie writers,
Englished and Moralized. And diuers newly deuised, by Geffrey Whitney. A worke adorned with
varietie of matter, both pleasant and profitable: wherein those that please, maye finde to
fit their fancies: Bicause herein, by the office of the eie, and the eare, the minde maye reape
dooble delighte throughe holsome preceptes, shadowed with pleasant deuises: both fit for the
vertuous, to their incoraging: and for the wicked, for their admonishing and amendment.

                           To the Reader.
   Peruse with heed, then frendlie iudge, and blaming rashe refraine:
   So maist thou reade vnto thy good, and shall requite my paine.

Imprinted at Leyden, In the house of Christopher Plantyn, by Francis Raphelengius. M. D. LXXXVI.

   4^o. (8¼ × 6). P. 1.

     Collation: *⁴2*⁴3*2A-Z⁴a-f⁴, paged. Wanting f 4 (? blank).
     Large woodcut of the achievement of Robert, Earl of Leicester, on
     verso of titlepage. Epistle dedicatory to the same, signed and
     dated London, Nov. 28, 1585. Address to the reader, signed and
     dated Leyden, May 4, 1586. Commendatory verses in Latin from Ianus
     Dousa à Noortwijck, Bonaventura Vulcanius Brugensis, Petrus Colvius
     Brugensis, Stephanus Limbertus Anglus Nordovicensis, and in English
     from Arthur Bourchier. Verses of the author, headed ‘D. O. M.’ and
     list of errata. Part ii begins with a separate titlepage, without
     imprint but bearing Leicester’s crest, on sig. O 1, followed by
     verses on Warwick and Leicester. Woodcuts in the text throughout.

   Sinker 998. BM 1591.

WOTTON, Sir HENRY.

Reliquiæ Wottonianæ: or, a Collection Of Lives, Letters, Poems; with Characters of Sundry Personages:
And other Incomparable Pieces of Language and Art. Also Additional Letters to several Persons,
not before Printed. By the Curious Pencil of the ever Memorable Sir Henry Wotton, K^t. Late
Provost of Eaton Colledge. The Third Edition, with large Additions. London, Printed by T. Roycroft,
for R. Marriott, F. Tyton, T. Collins, and J. Ford, 1672.

   8^o. (6¾ × 4¼). U. 5.

     Collation: A⁸b-e⁸f⁴C-2Q⁸, paged. Wanting 2Q 8 (? blank).
     Engraved portrait by Dolle. Epistle dedicatory to Philip, Earl of
     Chesterfield, signed Izaak Walton and dated Feb. 27, 1672. Address
     to the reader. ‘An Account of the Work.’ Life of Wotton signed Iz.
     Wa. Elegy on Wotton signed A. Cowley. Letter from Wotton to Marcus
     Velserus of Augsburg in Latin and same in English, dated ‘London,
     Decemb. 2. after the Julian Accompt’ 1612. Letter from Wotton to
     the Regius Professor of Divinity in Cambridge dated Jan. 17, 1637.
     Table of contents at the end. Contains an engraved portrait of
     Robert Devereux, Earl of Essex, at sig. K 2^v and of George
     Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, at sig. P 8^v, both signed by Dolle.
     The first edition appeared in 1651; this is the third.

YONG, BARTHOLOMEW.

Diana of George of Montemayor.... 1598. See MONTEMAYOR, Jorge de.

MANUSCRIPTS.

Catalogue of a Collection intitl’d Shakesperiana; comprehending All the several Editions of
the Works of Shakespeare, old & new; divers rare old Editions of Writers, prose-men & verse-men;
with a Variety of other Articles, chiefly such as tend to illustrate him;--made by his last
Editor, E. C; and by him deposited in the Library of Trinity College in Cambridge, this eleventh
Day of Iune in the Year 1779.

   large 4^o. (11 × 9).

     An alphabetical index to the books in the collection, in Capell’s
     own handwriting. At the end is inserted a leaf containing a list of
     ‘Quarto’s wanted’ to complete the collection of Shakespearian
     editions. Of this list thirty copies were privately printed by
     Steevens in 1780, and it was also reprinted in Hartshorne’s ‘Book
     Rarities of Cambridge’ in 1829. The list is not very accurate and
     there are many omissions. It inserts, moreover, as if in the
     collection, many editions which it never contained, Capell having
     intended to make the list of Shakespearian quartos complete by
     reference to other collections when his own failed. In the inside
     of the cover is the following inscription: ‘June 26. 1779. Ordered
     by the Master and Seniors, agreeably to the express Desire of M^r.
     Capel, that the whole Collection given by him be kept together in
     the same Class; and that no Manuscript or Book belonging to it be
     taken out of the Library on any Pretence whatever. J. Peterborough
     M C.’ There are also three documents inserted relating to articles
     in the collection. One of these runs ‘Effigies William Shakespeare
     Britanni ad fidem tabellæ unicæ manu Richard Burbage depictæ (circa
     annum, ut videtur, 1609) per R. Barret Londinensem quam exactissimè
     expressa anno 1759, curantibus David Garrick et Edward Capell.
     Capell’s Collection given to y^e College 1779’. Another is headed
     ‘Extract of a letter to M^r. Capell, that accompany’d a Cast from
     the face of Shakespear’s monument at Stratford, dated Dec^r. 13.
     1780.’. The portrait and cast are both in the Library. The third is
     a list of certain books in Capell’s handwriting. There has also
     been added to the collection a fine medallion head of Capell,
     engraved by Bartolozzi after a plaster model taken from life by
     Roubilliac in 1750.

   6 vols. large 4^o. (11¾ × 9¼). MS. 1.

     Epistle dedicatory to the Duke of Grafton, signed and dated ‘Essex
     Court in the Temple Nov. 9^th’. 1766, altered to 1767 as in printed
     edition. At the end of vol. vi is inserted a printed table as in
     MS. 3. The date at which Capell began and ended each play is
     entered, but these dates do not run consecutively through the
     volumes as finally bound up. The earliest date is that to the
     ‘Merry Wives of Windsor’, begun Nov. 25, 1749, and ended Jan. 18,
     1750; the latest that to the ‘Taming of the Shrew’, begun July 4,
     1766 and ended Aug. 1 of the same year. Whether these dates refer
     to the actual construction of the text or merely to the present
     transcript is not clear, but they certainly bear some relation to
     the latter as may be seen from the handwriting which gradually
     grows larger, heavier, and less easy to read, though always
     distinguished by copperplate regularity.

Notes and Various Readings to Shakespeare, ... Volume the First. [Volume the Second.] London:
Printed by &c.

Volume the Third. The School of Shakespeare: or, authentic Extracts from divers English Books,
that were in Print in that Author’s Time; evidently shewing from whence his several Fables
were taken, and some Parcel of his Dialogue: Also, further extracts, from the same or like
Books, which or contribute to a due Understanding of his Writings, or give Light to the History
of his Life, or to the dramatic History of his Time. With a Preface, and an Index of Books
extracted. London: Printed by &c.

   3 vols. large 4^o. (11⅝ × 9⅜). MS. 2.

     The first vol. contains an address to the reader signed E. C., and
     a glossary to Shakespeare, after which come the notes and various
     readings to the different plays, which fill the remainder of vol. i
     and the whole of vol. ii. Vol. iii contains Preface signed E. C.,
     ‘Index of Books extracted’, and Extracts. There follows ‘Notitia
     Dramatica; or, Tables of Ancient Plays, (from their Beginning, to
     the Restoration of Charles the second) so many as have been
     printed, with their several Editions: faithfully compiled, and
     digested in quite new Method, by E. C. With a Preface.’. This is
     followed by a bibliographical appendix of titles, which was never
     printed. The ‘School of Shakespeare’ was begun Feb. 3, 1767 and
     ended Jan. 16, 1771. Part of the commentary was published in 1774
     but was not well received and was recalled. The whole was then put
     forth in three quarto vols. in 1779-1783, the last of which
     appeared after Capell’s death in 1781.

Paradise Lost a Poem in Twelve Books; written by Iohn Milton. London: Printed for &c.

   4^o. (11¾ × 9⅜). MS. 3.

     Epistle dedicatory to the Bishop of Rochester signed, and dated
     Essex Court in the Temple, Ian. 23, 1767. With List of editions and
     various readings at the end. The text was begun July 23, 1759 and
     ended Dec. 18, 1760. After this with separate titlepage ‘Hermes,
     or, A Guide to the Elements; setting forth their just Number, and a
     Mode of representing with Certainty: For the Benefit of Youth, and
     of Foreigners. Fronte, exile negotium, Et dignum pueris putes;
     Aggressis, labor arduus. Ter. Mau. London: Printed for &c.’ a
     treatise on phonetics with a folding leaf of sounds (printed), and
     a vocabulary to ‘Paradise Lost’. Neither of the works in this
     volume was printed.

[“Prolusions, or, select Pieces of ancient Poetry”, by E. C. 2. Vol^s. 4^o. small.]

   MS. 4.

     This entry is in Capell’s MS catalogue but the book is not in the
     collection.

A Collection of Poems, In Two Volumes; Being all the Miscellanies of Mr. William Shakespeare,
which were Publish’d by himself in the Year 1609 and now correctly Printed from those Editions.
The First Volume contains, I. Venus and Adonis. II. The Rape of Lucrece. III. The Passionate
Pilgrim. IV. Some Sonnets set to sundry Notes of Musick. The Second Volume contains One Hundred
and Fifty Four Sonnets, all of them in Praise of his Mistress. II. A Lover’s Complaint of his
Angry Mistress. London: Printed for Bernard Lintott, at the Cross-Keys, between the Two Temple-Gates
in Fleet-street.

   8^o. 2 vols. in one. (6⅝ × 4¼). MS. 5.

The second leaf, signed A 2, contains an ‘Advertisement’, at the end of which on A 2^v is the
MS note ‘I gave M^r Capell the Information of the opposite Page. R. Farmer’. Then follow two
leaves containing a ‘Preface’ in Capell’s handwriting. The next leaf is B 1. The text has been
carefully corrected throughout by Capell, who has modernised the spelling. The volume apparently
contains Capell’s material for an edition of the Poems, which however were not included in
his edition of Shakespeare’s works. The collection was published in 1709. On the fly-leaf are
the lines also in Capell’s hand:

   Βαια φαγων, και βαια πιων, και πολλα νοσησας,
     Οψε μεν, αλλ‘ εθανον; Ερρετε παντες ομου!

   Pain of all sorts to cure, Grief, Labour, Fast,
   Death of the latest came, but came at last.

INDEX

   A., R. ALLOT, R.

   AMYOT, J. PLUTARCH.

   ANTI-SCRIBLERUS HISTRIONICUS (pseud.). ROBERTS, J.

   Arraignment of Paris. PEELE, G.

   Arthur King of Britain, History of. MALORY, Sir T.

   B., N. BRETON, N.

   B., R. (R. Beling.) SIDNEY, Sir P. Arcadia.

   BALDWIN, W. MIRROR FOR MAGISTRATES.

   BANDELLO, M. Histoires Tragiques.
     BELLEFOREST, F. de.

   ---- Romeus and Iuliet. BROKE, A.

   BASTINA, Compagnia della. LESINA, Compagnia della. Vera Regola.

   BLENERHASSET, T. MIRROR FOR MAGISTRATES.

   BOCCACCIO, G. LYDGATE, J.

   BOCHAS, J. See BOCCACCIO, G.

   BOISTEAU, P. BELLEFOREST, F. de.

   Br., Ar.
     BROKE, A.

   Cromwell, Chronicle history of Thomas Lord. SHAKESPEARIAN PLAYS,
     Pseudo.

   D., R. DES PERIERS, B.

   DARES. LYDGATE, J.

   DICTYS. LYDGATE, J.

   Edmonton, Merry Devil of. MERRY DEVIL OF EDMONTON.

   ELYOT, Sir T. COOPER, T.

   English Poesie, Art of. PUTTENHAM, G.

   Essex, Earl of. Declaration of Treasons. BACON, F.

   EUCOLPIUS (pseud.). ELYOT, Sir T. Image of Governance.

   EUTHEO, Anglo-phile (pseud.). SALVIANUS.

   FITZSTEPHEN, W. STOW, J. Survey of London.

   Formulario del scrivere lettere. MINIATORE, B.

   G., H. (Grantham? Gifford?). BOCCACCIO, G.

   G., T. GOFFE, T.

   GOULART, J. GOULART, S.

   H., H. HOLLAND, H.

   H., J. HALL, J.

   H., S. HARSNETT, S.

   Hamblet, History of. BELLEFOREST, F. de.

   Hardinge, G., Letter to. COLLINS, J.

   Henry IV, History of. SHAKESPEARE, W.

   Henry V, History of. SHAKESPEARE, W.

   HIGGINS, J. MIRROR FOR MAGISTRATES.

   HOROLOGGI, G. DONDI DALL’OROLOGIO, G.

   HOWELL, J. COTGRAVE, R.

   HOWES, E. Annales. STOW, J.

   IMMERITÒ (pseud.). SPENSER, E.

   Ireland. Discovery why I. was never subdued. DAVIES, Sir J.

   L., T. LODGE, T.

   LAWES, H. MILTON, J.

   Ludlow Castle, Masque at. MILTON, J.

   M., L. See MACHIN, L.

   M., M. T. (Mr T. More). MORE, C.

   MACHIN, L. BARKSTEAD, W.

   MAJOR, J. ELDER, J.

   MENDOZA, D. H. de (?) History of Lazarillo de Tormes. LAZARILLO
     DE TORMES.

   MIDDLETON, T. MASSINGER, P.

   MINSHEW, J. PERCYVALL, R.

   MUNDAY, A. (?) Second and Third Blast of Retreat. SALVIANUS.

   PALLINGENIUS, M. MANZOLLI, P. A.

   PERIERS, B. de. DES PERIERS, B.

   Peter’s Complaint, Saint. SOUTHWELL, R.

   Piers Plowman, Vision of. LANGLAND, W.

   Pope, A. Answer to P.’s preface to Shakespeare. ROBERTS, J.

   Popish Impostures, Declaration of. HARSNETT, S.

   Prolusions. CAPELL, E.

   R., B. (B. Rich?). HERODOTUS.

   R., S. ROWLANDS, S.

   RABBOTENU, I. MARNIX, P. van.

   Romeo and Juliet. Istoria di due amanti. PORTO, L. da.

   Romeo and Juliet, Tragedy of. SHAKESPEARE, W.

   Romeus and Juliet. BROKE, A.

   ROWLEY, W. MASSINGER, P.

   S., R. SOUTHWELL, R.

   S., W. Locrine. SHAKESPEARIAN PLAYS, Pseudo.

   ---- The Puritan. SHAKESPEARIAN PLAYS, Pseudo.

   Second and Third Blast of Retreat. SALVIANUS.

   SELDEN, J. DRAYTON, M. Poly-olbion.

   SH. W. JOHN, King of England.

   SHAKESPEARE, W. Birth of Merlin.
     ROWLEY, W.
     ---- Troublesome Reign. JOHN, King of England.
     ---- Two Noble Kinsmen. BEAUMONT and FLETCHER.

   Shakespeare, W. Answer to Pope’s preface to S. ROBERTS, J.
   ---- Letter on Steevens’ preface to S. COLLINS, J.
   ---- Revisal of S.’s text. HEATH, B.

   Shepherd’s Calender. SPENSER, E.

   SHIRLEY, J. BEAUMONT and FLETCHER. Coronation.

   SP., Ed. SPENSER, E.

   SPILORCION DE’ STITICHI. Vera Regola. LESINA, Compagnia della.

   Steevens, G. Letter on S.’s preface to Shakespeare. COLLINS, J.

   SYLVESTER, J. DU BARTAS, G. de S.

   T., I. WATSON, T.

   Titus Andronicus, Tragedy of. SHAKESPEARE, W.

   Tormes, History of Lazarillo de. LAZARILLO DE TORMES.

   URCHARD, Sir T. URQUART, Sir T.

   VEGIUS, M. VERGILIUS MARO, P.

   Verona. Istoria di due amanti nella città di V. PORTO, L. da.

   Virgidemiae. HALL, J.

   Westward for Smelts, KIT of Kingston (pseud.).

   Wife, now a Widow. OVERBURY, Sir T.

   Wits, Fits, and Fancies. COPLEY, A.

   WYAT, Sir T. HOWARD, H., Earl of Surrey.

LIST OF PRINTERS, STATIONERS, ETC.

   A., E. 6.

   Allde, Edw. 25, 38.

   Allde, Eliz. 51.

   Allot, R. 117.

   Alsop, B. 59, 77.

   Archer, E. 86.

   Aspley, W. 116, 117, 129.

   Astley, H. 16.

   B., C. 2.

   B., G. 97.

   B., J. 76.

   B., R. 139.

   Bache, J. 6.

   Badius Ascensius, J. Paris. 38, 46.

   Baldini, V. Ferrara. 78.

   Ballard, H. 88.

   Barker, R. 5, 54, 55, 56.

   Barnes, John. 30.

   Barnes, Joseph. Oxford. 29.

   Barnes, R. 151.

   Bathurst, C. 38.

   Becket, J. 30.

   Bedell, G. 22.

   Bell, H. 51.

   Bell, J. 126.

   Bell, M. 51.

   Benson, J. 72, 136.

   Bentley, R. 118.

   Berthelet, T. 39, 40, 48, 49.

   Bettesworth, A. 119.

   Bindoni, F. Venice. 157.

   Birt, S. 120.

   Bishop, G. 54, 55, 56.

   Blackmore, E. 50.

   Bloome, J. 84.

   Blount, E. 1, 2, 21, 43, 116.

   Boler, J. 87.

   Bollifant, E. 97, 105, 106, 158.

   Bonian, R. 135.

   Boulter, R. 90.

   Bradocke, R. 14.

   Brewster, E. 118.

   Brindley, J. 120.

   Brome, H. 142.

   Brome, W. 115.

   Browne, J. 35, 103.

   Bucke, T. and J. Cambridge. 43.

   Burby, C. 37, 81, 88, 126.

   Busby, J. 35, 80, 125, 144.

   Butter, N. 65, 125, 126, 137.

   Bynneman, H. 112.

   C., P. 118.

   C., T. 103, 128, 137.

   C., W. 61.

   Cavallerii, G. M. Turin. 78.

   Cawood, G. 83.

   Cawood, J. 17, 98.

   Charlewood, J. 143.

   Clarke, J. 47.

   Clarke, S. 70.

   Clavel, R. 142.

   Clay, F. 119.

   Coldocke, F. 59.

   Coles, F. 47, 100.

   Collins, T. 161.

   Colwell, T. 48, 68.

   Comin da Trino di Monferrato. Venice. 104.

   Company of Stationers. 39, 46.

   Cooke, W. 8, 10, 13.

   Cotes, T. 8, 10, 12, 13, 117, 136, 139.

   Creede, T. 56, 124, 125, 131, 132, 137.

   Crook, W. 62.

   Crooke, A. 8, 10, 13.

   Crowley, R. 75.

   Danter, J. 133.

   Dawson, J. 85.

   Deacon, J. 16, 45.

   Denham, H. 19, 85, 102, 112, 155.

   Dew, T. 71.

   Dexter, R. 56, 57.

   Dod, B. 120.

   Dodsley, J. 158.

   Draper, S. 120.

   Dring, T. 92.

   E., G. 61.

   East, T. 150.

   Edlin, T. 15.

   Eld, G. 49, 88, 101, 109, 110, 135, 136, 139.

   F., M. 32, 104.

   Falkner, F. 89.

   Feales, W. 119.

   Field, R. 2, 4, 28, 107, 108.

   Fisher, T. 129.

   Flesher, M. 96.

   Ford, J. 161.

   G., E. 10.

   G., H. 154.

   Gherardo, P. Venice. 104.

   Gilbertson, W. 89, 105.

   Giolito, G. Venice. 31.

   Gosson, H. 138.

   Grafton, R. 57.

   Griffin, E. 11, 102.

   Griffo, G. Venice. 108.

   H., R. 62.

   H., T. 2, 129.

   H., W. 26.

   Hacket, T. 87, 143.

   Harding, S. 5, 6.

   Harper, T. 10.

   Harrison, J. 135, 149, 150.

   Harrison, L. 63.

   Hart, A. Edinburgh. 35.

   Hatfield, A. 23, 43, 107, 154.

   Hawkins, G. 157.

   Hawkins, R. 9, 29, 117, 130.

   Helder, T. 91.

   Helme, J. 35, 70.

   Herringman, H. 118.

   Heyes, L. 127.

   Heyes, T. 127.

   Hitch, C. 119, 120.

   Hope, W. 36.

   Hoskins, W. 44.

   How, W. 156.

   Ibbitson, R. 50.

   Islip, A. 74, 79, 81.

   Jackson, R. 3, 76.

   Jaggard, I. 15, 116.

   Jaggard, J. 28, 154.

   Jaggard, W. 116, 136.

   Jansonius, J. Arnheim. 65.

   Jeffes, A. 16, 45, 77, 80.

   Johnson, A. 88, 128.

   Johnson, T. 111.

   Johnston, W. 58.

   Jones, R. 18, 41, 159.

   Jones, T. 8, 82.

   Jones, W. 99.

   K., F. 16.

   Kearsley, G. 23.

   Kele, R. 22, 40.

   Kembe, A. 104.

   Kirkman, F. 111.

   Knapton, J. and P. 120.

   Kyngston, F. 95.

   L., H. 35, 146, 147, 148.

   L., N. 2, 33, 121.

   Latham, G. 109.

   Law, M. 123, 131, 132, 133.

   Leach, D. 21, 121.

   Leake, W. 11, 100, 128, 130, 136, 157.

   Lee, W. 33.

   Ley, W. 48.

   Lichfield, L. Oxford. 11.

   Ling, N. 40.

   Lintott, B. 166.

   Lintott, H. 120.

   L’isle, L. 68, 101, 102.

   Loftus, G. 111.

   Longman, T. 120.

   Lownes, M. 15, 33, 35, 146, 147, 148, 154.

   M., A. 9, 13, 89, 130, 152.

   M., J. 91.

   Mafeo, P. Venice. 157.

   Mantelli, I. di. Venice. 153.

   Marriot, J. 32.

   Marriot, R. 161.

   Marshe, H. 104, 111.

   Marshe, T. 6, 60, 82, 93, 94, 95, 103, 154.

   Mathewes, A. 29, 71, 82.

   Mattes, W. 79, 159.

   Meighen, R. 9, 72, 117, 129, 152.

   Middleton, T. 24, 124.

   Middleton, W. 87.

   Moseley, H. 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 26, 27.

   N., I. 139.

   New, E. 120.

   Newbery, R. 48, 54, 55, 56, 85, 151, 152.

   Norton, J. 4, 23, 124, 131, 133.

   O., E. 100.

   O., J. 72.

   O., N. 9, 51, 130, 135.

   O., R. 62.

   Okes, N. 27, 61, 100, 151.

   Olney, H. 140.

   P., E. 32.

   P., I. 137.

   P., M. 127.

   P., T. 24, 89, 123, 125, 138, 139.

   Parker, P. 90.

   Parsons, M. 30.

   Passaeus, C. Arnheim. 65.

   Pavier, T. 14, 115.

   Perry, H. 124.

   Plantyn, C. Leyden. 161.

   Ponsonby, W. 140, 144, 145, 146.

   Potter, G. 158.

   Purfoot, T. 46, 79, 133.

   Purslow, E. 53.

   Pynson, R. 83.

   R., J. 33, 121, 127.

   Rampazetto, F. Venice. 114.

   Rands, W. 36.

   Raphelengius, F. Leyden. 161.

   Reynes, J. 42.

   Rigaud, B. Lyons. 14.

   Roberts, J. 58, 127, 129.

   Robinot, G. Paris. 14.

   Robinson, H. 7, 26, 90.

   Robinson, R. 19.

   Rogers, R. 48.

   Roycroft, T. 142, 161.

   Royston, R. 96.

   S., I. 9.

   S., P. 122, 135, 144, 158.

   S., S. 123.

   S., V. 124, 129.

   S., W. 122, 126, 134, 141.

   Sawbridge, T. 142.

   Seres, W. 112.

   Seyle, H. 32.

   Sheares, W. 124.

   Shepherd, H. 10.

   Shepperd, J. 73.

   Shewell, T. 120.

   Short, P. 88.

   Sibthorp, B. 23.

   Simmes, V. 1, 3, 24, 31, 70, 123, 130, 131, 144.

   Simmons, S. 91.

   Singleton, H. 149.

   Slater, T. 62.

   Smethwicke, J. 34, 52, 79, 80, 116, 117, 121, 122, 126, 134.

   Snodham, T. 137.

   Spineda, L. Venice. 81.

   Stafford, S. 37.

   Standish, J. 28.

   Stansby, W. 71, 84.

   Starkey, J. 91.

   Stephanus, R. Paris. 142, 143.

   T., I. 154.

   T., T. 136.

   Thackeray, W. 13, 16, 50.

   Tonson, J. 21, 119, 120, 121.

   Tonson, R. 21, 120, 121.

   Tooke, B. 142.

   Torrentino, L. Mondovi. 47.

   Tottel, R. 19, 49, 53, 67, 98.

   Trundle, J. 73.

   Turner, W. Oxford. 20.

   Tyton, F. 161.

   University Press Oxford. 120.

   Vavassere, G. A. and F. Venice. 92.

   Vautroullier, T. 106.

   Vautroullier, T. Edinburgh. 69.

   Veale, A. 98, 156.

   Vecchi, A. de. Venice. 114.

   Vere, T. 47.

   W., W. 123, 126.

   Walker, M. 90.

   Walkley, T. 130.

   Walley, H. 135.

   Walley, J. 98.

   Walley, R, 160.

   Warde, R. 31.

   Waterson, J. 10, 12.

   Waterson, S. 4, 27, 141.

   Wellington, R. 119, 120.

   White, E. 18, 38, 135.

   Whitwood, W. 81.

   Whytchurch, E. 5.

   Williams, F. 52.

   Williams, J. 113.

   Windet, J. 59, 140, 150.

   Wise, A. 122, 123, 124, 129, 130, 131, 132.

   Wolfe, J. 114, 143, 150, 153.

   Woodcocke, T. 16.

   Wright, J. 42, 47, 50, 99, 109, 110, 136.

   Wykes, H. 60.

   Young, R. 36, 109, 122, 134.

CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BY J. AND C. F. CLAY, AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

