All followers not required with the above are to accompany the baggage of their corps. The
transport officer will act as baggage-master, and all baggage-followers and baggage-guards
will be under his orders. He will see that the baggage moves off the ground in the following
order, viz:--Field hospital with its baggage in rear of fighting portion of column; ammunition
second reserve and ordnance park; staff baggage, including supplies; regimental baggage with
supplies in regimental charge in order of march of unit; supply go-down; spare animals in transport
charge; rearguard.

          (By order)               S. M. EDWARDS, Major,
                                  S.O. Aden Column.

January 2nd, 1903, Sheikh Othman.--On January 2nd, 1903, the column assembled at its rendezvous,
Sheikh Othman, some ten miles from Aden.

January 3rd, Bir Sayed Ali Wells (2-1/2 miles north of Firush.)--An early start was made, though
as it was the first day's march as a column it was not intended to go very far. The going,
moreover, was bad. It takes time to accustom oneself to marching through deep sand, just as
it takes time to acquire the 'heather-step' in August. However, every one did well, the water
was good and fairly plentiful, though somewhat scattered, and the spirits of the little force
rose high at the possibilities of the prospect before them.

January 4th, Bir Salim.--The water at this camp was good, but insufficient in quantity, necessitating
the watering of the animals some mile away.

January 5th, Shaika.--Another good march, the only incident of which was the breaking down
of the treasure-camel, an important item of the force.

January 6th.--Owing to the necessity of making very early starts, long before daybreak, Lieut.-Colonel
English gave orders for bonfires to be built overnight. These proved a great success, and enabled
the packing-up in the morning to be accomplished with facility and dispatch.

January 7th, Alhaja.--This place was reached after a long and trying march, but the water proved
bad in quality and small in quantity. Captain Harrison, however, luckily joined the force here
with a good supply from Aden, so all was well.

January 8th, Hadaba.--Another tiring march, but a spring in the river-bed provided a plentiful
supply of good water. As there were 1300 human beings and animals to provide for, it can easily
be understood that the problem of the water-supply was a never-ceasing care to the staff. Its
solution would have been still more difficult had not the O.C. column arranged that the Bombay
Grenadiers and native hospital should march a day behind the rest of the force.

January 9th, Arrado.--A short march, and more water than was expected.

January 10th, Dthala.--There was a difficult pass to ascend before the column reached its objective;
three camels were in consequence lost en route, one falling over a precipice and two dying
from exhaustion. By 1 p.m., however, all difficulties had been overcome, and the camping-ground
was reached without opposition.

January 11th.--The remainder of the column arrived safely.

The rest of the month was occupied in putting the camp in a state of defence, and the usual
camp life. A force of 400 Turkish troops, with four guns and twenty-five mounted men, was encamped
only two miles off at Jelala, and, as the condition of affairs, according to the political
officer, Colonel Wahab, was very acute, it was necessary to observe the strictest precautions
at all times. On January 30th the detachment of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers was relieved by
one from the Hampshire Regiment, and marched off on their way back to Aden, under command of
Lieutenant Haskard. Colonel English did not return, having received orders from Lord Kitchener
to remain in command of the field force, whose total strength now consisted of 818 officers
and men, and 735 animals.

February 1st.--The situation now, however, became more serious. Colonel English received a
wire at 2.30 p.m. directing him to stop Haskard's return march at Nobat-Dakim, and another
at 6 p.m. informing him that the whole of the Dublin Fusiliers were coming up, and also half
the 23rd Bombay Rifles. On February 10th instructions were received to recall Haskard, who
marched on the 12th, arriving at Dthala on the 14th. On the 18th, headquarters and the remainder
of the Dublin Fusiliers left Aden, reaching Dthala on the 26th, when Colonel Hicks took over
command of the column, Lieut.-Colonel English assuming command of the battalion.

On March 22nd the Turks, however, evacuated Jelala, retiring behind Kataba. Jelala was at once
occupied by two companies of the Bombay Rifles. Captain Rooth, Brevet-Major Carington Smith,
Captains Garvice, Grimshaw, and Taylor arrived on the same day.

On April 27th a detachment, consisting of 100 Royal Dublin Fusiliers, two guns 6th Mountain
Battery, and 100 Bombay Rifles, with supply and transport, the whole under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel
English, occupied Sanah, where they remained until July 11th, when they returned to Dthala.

On May 18th a detachment of 100 men of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers, under Brevet-Major Smith,
joined a column under command of Colonel Scallon, C.I.E., D.S.O., 23rd Bombay Rifles, which
proceeded on a punitive expedition to Hardaba. They met with some slight opposition, in which
No. 7274 Private Martin, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, was slightly wounded. The column returned
to Dthala on May 25th, after suffering considerably from heat.

On August 31st a small flying column, under Major Delamain, left for the Bunna River. Lieutenant
Wheeler, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, acted as Staff Officer to this force. On September 4th, Lieutenant
Haskard, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, with thirty-five men, went out to Delamain with a convoy,
returning on September 6th.

Considerable trouble had for some time been caused by the depredations of the Arab tribes,
who had been killing camelmen, and generally making themselves obnoxious on the line of communications.
Information was now received that these Arabs were beginning to get very excited, and that
they contemplated an attack on a post under Captain Shewell, at Awabil. A force was immediately
got together, and placed under the command of Colonel English. He marched on September 13th,
only to find, however, on arrival that Shewell had beaten off the attack by himself, with a
loss of one man killed and five wounded. Colonel English then returned to Dthala, which place
he reached on September 19th.

On October 5th the same officer took command of another column, to punish the Dthanbari tribe
and destroy their chief town, Naklain. The column consisted of Royal Dublin Fusiliers, 4 companies;
6th Mountain Battery, Royal Artillery, 1 section; Camel Battery, 2 guns; Aden Troop, 17 sowars;
Bombay Grenadiers, 1 double company; 23rd Bombay Rifles, 23 men.

Colonel English arrived before Naklain at 8.25 a.m. on October 7th, after pushing back the
enemy, who disputed the passage of a difficult gorge for some time. He then proceeded to destroy
the place, and at 11.15 a.m. started on his return march. The enemy clung to his flanks, and
kept up a long-range fire until 2.30 p.m., when he repassed the gorge mentioned above. His
casualties consisted of one killed (No. 5710 Private Andrew Keegan), and six wounded, while
there were in addition six cases of sunstroke. The column did not return to Dthala, but marched
straight to Aden, where it arrived on October 14th.

The remainder of the battalion left Dthala on October 10th, reaching Aden on the 16th, where,
on October 24th, it embarked on the transport Soudan for home.

For his services in the Aden Hinterland, Lieutenant-Colonel English was awarded the D.S.O.
It was never better earned. But no medal was issued to the regiment, in spite of the fact that
for ten months they had been living under active service conditions, which necessitated unceasing
vigilance by day and night. It is true they had not suffered many casualties, or seen much
fighting, but as this was undoubtedly due to the excellent manner in which the operations were
conducted, and to the precautions taken, it seemed a little hard that the coveted distinction
of a medal should be withheld, although the little campaign is ranked in war services as active
service.

However, the experience and the knowledge of the country gained will doubtless prove beneficial
to all concerned, who still look back upon Dthala with affection, and speak of it with regret.
On the night after Colonel English had dealt with the Dthanbari tribe, Major Carington Smith,
who was in command of a small detachment, after posting his outposts was just thinking of retiring
when he heard the sentries challenge; this was immediately followed by a rush of horsemen,
headed by a most gorgeously dressed officer. Reining up almost at Smith's feet he informed
him that his master, a neighbouring potentate, friendly to the English, had sent him and his
men to assist in the repulse of the bloodthirsty Dthanbari tribe, who might be expected to
attempt to rush the camp that night. Although not anticipating anything of the kind, Major
Smith was far too polite to say so, and after thanking his allies, suggested that they should
take up a line of cossack posts in front of his outpost line. To this they consented, but before
leaving declared their earnest conviction that an assault would be delivered. Shortly after
midnight Smith was awakened by a fiendish din. Grasping his sword with one hand and his pistol
with the other, he rushed out to meet the crisis. From every direction his allies came galloping
in as fast as their horses could lay legs to the ground, while the detachment sprang to arms
in a second, fully expecting to be attacked by every Arab in the Hinterland. Reining up his
horse as before, the leader of the cavalry once more saluted Smith, and made the following
report: 'Sah, I have honour to salute you, and inform your Honour that Dthanbari tribe have
not yet arrived.'

The following description of the action at Naklain appeared in the home press:--

'AN ARAB DRIVE.'

'HOT FIGHTING IN THE ADEN HINTERLAND.

'The expedition, under Brevet-Lieutenant-Colonel English, was sent out to destroy the chief
village and crops of the tribe Naklain, as punishment for the shooting of Government camels
and the looting of his Majesty's mails. The tribe is very warlike, and their country had never
hitherto been penetrated.

'After leaving As Suk camp, the British column began to wind among the mountains, which rise
very abruptly from the plain, and, as they met with no opposition for a considerable time,
they began to think there would be no resistance. Suddenly, without warning of any sort, a
ragged volley was opened on the advance-guard, apparently from some very broken ground, fifty
to a hundred yards in front.

'This seemed to be a prearranged signal, for from the hills on both flanks the firing was taken
up, the enemy constantly changing their positions after firing. The guns were brought into
action almost at once, and the infantry, extending at the double, soon covered a wide front
and swept along the hills parallel to the advance.

'MOVING FORWARD.

'After the surrounding hills had been shelled, the whole column moved forward, the infantry
pushing the enemy back step by step until the village of Naklain was reached. While parties
of men were told off to keep down the enemy's fire from points of vantage, others proceeded
to blow up the houses with gun-cotton, and the more inaccessible houses were shelled.

'The crops were then destroyed by the men with their bayonets and swords. There was a fierce
fire while this was proceeding, the enemy evidently not having expected such a reprisal. The
work having been completed, the arduous retirement commenced, the enemy following the force
up step by step the whole way back, at one time coming to comparatively close quarters and
necessitating a most careful management of the rearguard.

'As Suk was reached after a trying march of twenty miles, the troops being under fire most
of the time, with scarcely any water and exposed to a burning sun. The British casualties were
seven men of the Dublin Fusiliers wounded (one since dead) and one native and one gunner slightly
wounded.'

CHAPTER II.

THE RETURN HOME AND RECEPTION.

  'I must to England.
  I pray you give me leave.'

                                           Hamlet.

Early in October, 1903, the 2nd Battalion at length heard the good news that the date of their
departure from Aden had been definitely fixed, and on the 23rd of the month it sailed in the
s.s. Soudan, arriving at Queenstown late in the evening of November 9th. The tour of foreign
service had lasted for twenty years all but two months, and only one man in the whole battalion
had seen it through from start to finish without coming home, the present quartermaster, Lieutenant
J. Burke.

The 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers left England for Gibraltar on January 9th, 1884, and
in February, 1885, proceeded to Egypt, where it was quartered first at Ramleh, and later on
at Cairo. Early in 1886 the battalion went to India, headquarters being stationed successively
at Poona, Nasirabad, Karachi, Quetta, and Bombay.

In May, 1897, it was suddenly ordered to South Africa, and quartered at Maritzburg, as already
stated in the opening chapter.

The details were at Buttevant, County Cork, and thither the battalion proceeded on their arrival
in Ireland.

Just two days prior to the arrival home of the 2nd Battalion the regiment had been honoured
by having appointed as its Colonel-in-Chief Field-Marshal H.R.H. A. W. S. A. Duke of Connaught
and Strathearn, K.G., K.P., K.T., G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.C.I.E., G.C.V.O.

On November 13th, 1903, the battalion proceeded to Dublin to attend a public reception and
also to receive their medals at the hands of H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught. The following is
the account of the proceedings as published in the Irish Times of November 14th, 1903, to whom
the thanks of the regiment are due for their kindness in permitting its reproduction:--

(Extract from 'Irish Times,' Saturday, November 14th, 1903.)

HOME-COMING OF THE ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS.

The officers, non-commissioned officers, and men of the 2nd Battalion of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers
may well feel proud of the reception accorded them on their return to their native land and
city after a long and arduous service under the British flag in foreign lands. There was quite
a contest for places on the gallery in the great Central Hall of the Royal Dublin Society's
buildings at Ballsbridge to see the heroes of a regiment which had gained undying laurels in
Burmah, India, and South Africa. Exceptional arrangements had been made for the entertainment
of the battalion at Ballsbridge, and the reception committee, which had for its chairman the
Earl of Meath, must be congratulated on the manner in which they carried out the entertainment
and provided for the enjoyment of such a large number of guests. The arrangement of the hall
was admirable in every respect. At the further end a slightly-raised daïs was placed and profusely
decorated with palms and evergreens, and immediately behind the chair subsequently occupied
by H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught was the regimental emblem introducing the figures of an elephant
and a tiger; the former bringing to mind the doughty deeds of the Dublin Fusiliers in Burmah
and the latter their equally splendid record on the historic field of Plassey. At the back
was the regimental motto, Spectamur Agendo, and the roof and gallery railings were handsomely
draped with red, green, and blue muslin, while the names of the various engagements in which
the men took part were prominently displayed. On the right-hand side of the hall four long
rows of tables were placed, handsomely prepared for the dinner, while the centre of the building
facing the daïs was kept clear for the men to be drawn up in proper formation to receive H.R.H.
the Duke of Connaught. The spacious galleries reserved for ticket-holders were crowded long
before the hour fixed for the ceremony, 12.30 o'clock. Shortly before 10 o'clock a large number
of reservists of the battalion, about 250, and some reservists from other battalions of the
regiment assembled at the Marshalsea Barracks, and under the command of Captain Perreau, Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, Adjutant 5th Battalion, and Major Baker, D.S.O., marched viâ Thomas Street,
Cork Hill, Dame Street, Nassau Street, Merrion Square North, Lower Mount Street, and Northumberland
Road to Ballsbridge. The men were dressed in civilian clothes, but wore their medals and other
decorations, and many showed by their appearance that they, too, had played no insignificant
part in the recent campaign. They were accompanied by the massed bands of the 3rd, 4th, and
5th Battalions Royal Dublin Fusiliers. The 2nd Battalion of the regiment arrived from Buttevant
by train at the Ballsbridge siding at 11.30 a.m., and marched across the roadway into the Royal
Dublin Society's premises. A great crowd of people watched the men detraining, and several
hearty rounds of cheering greeted their appearance. The men looked in splendid form as they
defiled into the main hall and took up the positions allotted to them. It was at first stated
that the strength comprised 25 officers, 2 warrant officers, 8 staff sergeants, 54 sergeants,
and 528 rank and file; but the figures given yesterday were 18 officers and 523 rank and file.
Be the numbers as they may, the appearance of the men thoroughly maintained the regimental
nickname of 'The Old Toughs.' Hardy, wiry warriors they looked--thoroughly capable of accomplishing
the daring and courageous deeds which have covered the Dublin Fusiliers with special glory.
It is worthy of note that the majority of the non-commissioned officers served through the
South African campaign from the Battle of Dundee, and that Lieutenant and Quartermaster Burke
is the only remaining one who left England with the battalion nineteen years ago. The officers
and men of the battalion were dressed in general service (khaki) uniform, and carried their
rifles and bayonets. They also wore Indian helmets with puggarees, while the mounted company
were attired in the clothing suited to this, particular branch of the Service. They were under
the command of Colonel Tempest Hicks, C.B., Colonel English, and Major Fetherstonhaugh, and
when they marched into the hall and took up position on either side, in line of half-battalions,
they were greeted with loud cheering, and when the order 'stand at ease' was made a number
of reservists and other friends rushed forward to exchange greetings with former acquaintances.
There was nearly a half-hour's wait for the arrival of the Duke of Connaught, and in the interval
the bands of the Fusiliers and Warwickshire Regiment played some selections. At a quarter-past
twelve precisely, H.R.H. the Commander of the Forces in Ireland arrived in an open carriage,
accompanied by H.R.H. the Duchess of Connaught and Princesses Margaret and Patricia of Connaught,
and attended by the following staff: Major-General Sir William Knox, Major-General Sir John
Maxwell, Colonel Hammersley, Colonel Davidson, Colonel Dickinson, Colonel Congreve, V.C., and
Major Murray, A.D.C.

The Duke, who wore the uniform of a Field-Marshal, was received by the following members of
the reception committee: Major Domville, D.L. (vice-chairman), Mr. Justice Ross, Sir Wm. Thompson,
Sir Charles Cameron, C.B., Major Davidson Houston, Colonel Finlay, Colonel Davidson, Major-General
Sir Gerald Morton, K.C.B., Colonel Paterson, Colonel G. T. Plunkett, C.B., Captain Lewis Riall,
D.L., Colonel Vernon, D.L., and Alderman Harris.

Major-General Vetch, commanding the Dublin District, was accompanied by Major Lowndes, A.D.C.,
Major Gilles (Brigade-Major), and Captain Fox Strangways (Garrison Adjutant). A guard of honour
of the Royal Irish Rifles was drawn up outside the Show Buildings, and the band of the regiment
played the National Anthem when the Duke and Duchess of Connaught drove up. I am sure I am
only the mouthpiece, not only of the General Officer Commanding this Army Corps, but also of
every loyal Irishman, when I assure you how warm and how hearty is the greeting that is given
you on your return to your native country, and especially in this capital of Ireland. You are
an old and distinguished regiment; raised originally for service in India as the Royal Madras
and Royal Bombay Fusiliers. During the time that you bore this name and the numbers 102 and
103, you took a very honourable part in all those great battles that assured us the conquest
of India. Now, since the year 1881, you have become closely associated not only with Ireland,
but with its capital. Your first service since you became the Royal Dublin Fusiliers was in
South Africa, and through the arduous services in that country you, men, whom I have now the
honour of addressing, nobly maintained the traditions of those fine soldiers who went before
you. When you were sent from India amongst the first reinforcements of the troops in South
Africa in 1897--soon afterwards the war broke out--you took a leading part in the Battle of
Talana. You then went back to Ladysmith, and after falling back across the Tugela, you were
attached to the army of Sir Redvers Buller, in the Irish Brigade under General Hart. During
all those weary months on the Tugela, you took a leading part in every action that took place,
and you distinguished yourselves so much at Pieter's Hill that when the relief force of Ladysmith
marched in, the general officer commanding gave you the post of honour, and you led the troops
that marched into Ladysmith. (Cheers.) Men of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers, this occasion is
one of especial pleasure and satisfaction to myself, as His Majesty has done me the great honour
of appointing me your Colonel-in-Chief--(cheers)--and I hope that in this you will recognise
not only His Majesty's high appreciation of the distinguished services you have rendered to
his throne and his empire, but also that you will see in it his wish that you will have some
special mark of distinction when he has made me, his only brother, Colonel-in-Chief of the
regiment. I hope I shall long have the honour to be your Colonel-in-Chief, and to have a connection
with a regiment of which every Irishman feels so proud.' (Cheers.)

Colonel G. T. Plunkett, C.B., read the following letter, received from the Earl of Meath, H.M.L.
for the County and City of Dublin:--

                                   'Ottershaw, Chertsey.

'MY DEAR PLUNKETT,--Owing to absence from Ireland, I shall be unable to be present in person
with you on the 13th, when you and the Reception Committee entertain the 2nd Battalion Royal
Dublin Fusiliers on their return home from foreign service, but I shall be with you in spirit,
and I hope you will let the officers and men know how sorry I am that I cannot personally welcome
them on their return to Ireland, and to Dublin, after so many years spent abroad in the service
of their Sovereign.

'The fame which the regiment has acquired by daring deeds of valour performed during the late
war has travelled far beyond the shores of Ireland. Military men the world over, and all who
have studied the South African War, have heard of the famous deeds of the Dublin Fusiliers.
The citizens of the Metropolitan county and City are proud of the men who, mindful of their
origin, have known how to make the name of Dublin to be honoured in all lands. Both officers
and men have done their duty to King and country, and we, their Irish brothers, accord them
a hearty welcome on their return to the dear land of their birth.

'Believe me, yours sincerely,

                                        'MEATH,

               'H.M.L. for County and City of Dublin.'

The Duke of Connaught then said: 'I have been particularly requested by His Excellency the
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to assure you of his warm welcome. He is away in England at present,
but he has sent his military secretary and senior A.D.C. to represent him, and to give you
his warmest wishes.' (Applause.)

His Royal Highness then distributed the medals and other distinctions to the officers and rank-and-file
of the battalion who were entitled to them. The following officers were decorated, the Duke
cordially shaking hands with each recipient:--Colonel Hicks, C.B., Colonel English, Major Fetherstonhaugh,
Major Carington Smith, Captain H. W. Higginson, Captain Cory, D.S.O., Captain Garvice, D.S.O.,
Lieutenants Grimshaw, D.S.O., Haskard, Britton, Wheeler, St. George Smith, Knox, Tredennick,
Seymour, Robinson, and Maclear, and Lieutenant and Quartermaster J. Burke and Sergeant-Major
Sheridan. His Royal Highness pinned distinguished-conduct medals on the breasts of Lieutenant
and Quartermaster J. Burke, Corporal Connell, and Privates C. N. Wallace, M. Farrelly, and
M. Kavanagh, each recipient being loudly cheered.

The following officers who had served with the battalion during the war, but who had previously
come home through wounds or sickness, availed themselves of the opportunity to have their medals
presented to them by the Duke:--Captain Downing, Captain Dibley, Lieutenants Renny, Supple,
Newton, Weldon, Molony, Armstrong, and Cooper. The distribution of the medals occupied over
half an hour.

When this important portion of the programme had been completed, the order to 'stack arms'
was given, and the men filed into their seats at the four long rows of tables which had been
admirably prepared for the dinner by the caterers, Messrs. Mills & Co., of Merrion Row. Messrs.
Mills & Co. had a picked staff of forty-two persons to carve the various dishes and wait at
table. Dinner consisted of several courses, with selected fruit; while in addition to liberal
supplies of ale, stout, and mineral waters, 300 bottles of champagne were placed before the
honoured guests. This last-mentioned luxury was the generous gift of Messrs. Perrier-Jouet
& Co., of Epernay, the famous wine shippers, who kindly and thoughtfully presented this supply
of their extra-quality wine through their Irish representatives, Messrs. James McCullagh, Son
& Co., 34 Lower Abbey Street. When the guests were seated, H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught, the
Duchess of Connaught, and the Princesses Margaret and Patricia of Connaught, with the Reception
Committee, a number of ladies, and a resplendent military entourage, walked slowly down between
the rows of tables, stopping to speak a few gracious words to the non-commissioned officers
and men who had made themselves conspicuous even amongst their comrades for valorous deeds
and unflinching devotion to duty. Many of the reservists who sat beside former 'chums' at table,
and on whose less warlike garb, the ordinary civilian clothes, medals and clasps shone out
in high relief, also received kindly congratulations from the Commander-in-Chief in Ireland.
Meanwhile the string band of the 21st Lancers, who occupied a good position on the gallery,
played a beautiful selection of airs, principally Irish, not the least being 'The Wearin' of
the Green.' The Royal party on walking down the centre of the hall was enthusiastically cheered,
and the Duchess and her daughters left the building at about half-past one.

The Duke remained for lunch with his staff and the officers of the battalion. The health of
His Majesty the King was drunk amidst much enthusiasm. After dinner, cigars and cigarettes
and tobacco were liberally distributed, officers of the regiment performing most of this agreeable
duty, and each man was presented with a nice briar pipe before leaving, the gift of Messrs.
Lalor & Co., of Nassau Street.

In the interval between dinner and leaving the premises at Ballsbridge, many friends and relatives
of the members of the battalion were afforded an opportunity for a pleasant chat, and most
of these accompanied the men in their subsequent march through the city. One figure attracted
much attention during the afternoon--a sturdy soldier who formerly belonged to the Royal Dublins,
and who appeared in the quaint, and, in this country, unusual uniform of a West African regiment.
It would be certainly less than unwarranted to refer to the general appearance and behaviour
of the men. Clean, smart, soldierly fellows, they all appeared to be impressed with the one
idea--that they belonged to a crack corps with unrivalled traditions to maintain.

The departure from Ballsbridge occasioned unbounded enthusiasm on the part of thousands of
eager spectators, who, unaware of the exact time at which the entertainment would finish, had
patiently waited for a couple of hours to catch a glimpse of the 'Old Toughs.' The main thoroughfare
from the Show-grounds to Pembroke Road was lined by detachments of the Warwickshire, East Lancashire
(with band), and Middlesex Regiments, while a guard of honour of the Royal Irish Rifles (with
their band) was stationed opposite the main entrance. About 3.15 o'clock H.R.H. the Duke of
Connaught, preceded by two mounted policemen and an escort of the 21st Lancers, drove out,
and passed over the route to be traversed immediately afterwards by the Fusiliers. The Field-Marshal
was loudly cheered as he proceeded to the Royal Hospital, and repeatedly returned the cordial
salutations of the large crowds who were assembled at different points. The appearance of the
fêted warriors was the signal for an astonishing ovation at Ballsbridge.

The scene was a striking one. A splendid body of the 21st Lancers, numbering fifty, occupied
first place in the procession, and these were followed by four or five bands and the heroes
of the day. Another detachment of fifty Lancers brought up the rear, and a number of men of
the same dashing cavalry regiment marched on either side of the advancing column. Many relatives
and friends of the Fusiliers had now an opportunity to exchange greetings, and strict army
discipline was at an end. There was nothing reprehensible, however, and the progress to Kingsbridge
was of the most orderly and praiseworthy description.

The route followed was the main road from Ballsbridge--Pembroke Road, Upper Baggot Street,
Lower Baggot Street, Merrion Row, Stephen's Green, North Grafton Street, College Green, Dame
Street, Parliament Street, and the south lines of quays to Kingsbridge. At different points,
like Baggot Street Bridge, Stephen's Green, and Grafton Street, the reception was of a most
cordial nature, while an immense crowd in College Green raised deafening cheers as the sturdy
warriors marched past. Enthusiasm reached its height when the tattered colours of the battalion,
borne by two stalwart young ensigns, came into view. The officers and men appeared delighted
with the cordial reception extended to them on all sides. At Grattan Bridge the band of the
Seaforth Highlanders, which had already delighted a large concourse of people with some choice
selections, struck up a lively air as Dublin's guests moved past, while a splendid send-off
characterised the entrainment of the battalion at Kingsbridge for Buttevant, co. Cork.

The Railway Company made excellent arrangements for the men, who, considering their long day
and its happy experiences, went through the ordeal in first-class style. After all, one could
scarcely expect less from soldiers who carry six or seven, or even nine clasps, on their medal
ribbons.

It is right to mention that a number of members of the Army Veterans Association, decorated
with their medals and other distinctions, visited Ballsbridge, and cordially congratulated
the Fusiliers on their return from foreign service.

On reaching Buttevant, the men will be supplied with new clothing and granted a general furlough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shortly after the reception the battalion was once again supplied with their home service full-dress
head-gear--the busby, and it was with much gratification that the men wore their new busby
hackle for the first time. This distinction was granted in 1902, when by Army Order 57 it was
directed that the Royal Dublin Fusiliers should wear a blue and green hackle in their busbies:
that for the officers to be blue and green, eight inches long, and that for the non-commissioned
officers and men a similar but shorter one, in recognition of their services during the war
in South Africa. In explanation of the colours of the hackle it may be stated that blue is
the distinguishing colour of the 1st Battalion ('Blue Caps'), and green that of the 2nd Battalion
('Old Toughs').

On November 27th, 1903, the regiment was honoured by having appointed as its Colonel Major-General
W. F. Vetch, C.V.O., commanding Dublin Garrison, vice Lieut.-General Sir John Blick Spurgin,
K.C.B., G.C.S.I., deceased.

General Vetch joined the 102nd Foot on March 8th, 1864, was promoted Lieutenant, July 1st,
1869; Captain, May 22nd, 1875; Major, June 18th, 1881; Lieut.-Colonel, June 7th, 1884; Colonel,
June 7th, 1888; and Major-General, April 1st, 1900.

After a quiet and uneventful stay at Buttevant for nearly three years the battalion proceeded
to Fermoy on September 14th, 1906, and took up quarters in the New Barracks at that station.

CHAPTER III.

THE MEMORIAL ARCH.

  'Even so great men great losses should endure.'

                              Julius Cæsar.

On August 19th, 1907, the memorial arch to the officers and men who fell in South Africa was
opened by H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught, Colonel-in-Chief the Royal Dublin Fusiliers. The 2nd
Battalion was marching from Kilworth Camp to Ballyvonaire Camp on that day, but the authorities
very kindly did everything in their power to make the ceremony a success, and Colonel English,
Major Bromilow, and every one of any importance who had taken part in the war proceeded to
Dublin by special train on the morning of the 19th, while the Depôt and Militia officers also
assembled in good force.

The officers and men of the regiment were very sensible of the honour shown to them by H.R.H.
the Duke of Connaught in personally opening the arch, and so identifying himself with it and
them, while every Dublin Fusilier present felt an added pride in himself and his uniform as
he saw it worn by His Royal Highness the brother of His Majesty the King.

The following account of the ceremony is taken from the Dublin Daily Express, to whose proprietors
our thanks are due for permission to reproduce it:--

  'ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS' MEMORIAL IN STEPHEN'S GREEN
          INAUGURATED BY THE DUKE OF CONNAUGHT.
             LUNCHEON AT SHELBOURNE HOTEL.

'To-day the Royal Dublin Fusiliers' Memorial to the officers and men of the regiment who fell
in South Africa was formally inaugurated by the Duke of Connaught, Inspector-General of the
British Army. His Royal Highness arrived at Amiens Street terminus by the early morning train
from Belfast, and was received by the Viceroy's Military Secretary. The Duke of Connaught at
once drove to the Shelbourne Hotel, where he was received by the following members of the Memorial
Committee:--The Earl of Meath, President; the Earl of Drogheda, Mr. Justice Ross, Colonel Vernon,
Sir Frederick Shaw, Bart., D.S.O., Sir Maurice Dockrell, Mr. Richard Dowse, Colonel Gore-Lindsay,
Colonel Finlay, Sir Thomas Drew, R.H.A., Sir Charles Cameron, C.B., &c.

'Lunch was served immediately afterwards, and was presided over by the Earl of Meath, K.P.,
who was supported on his right by H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught, K.P., the Earl of Drogheda,
Major-General Vetch, C.V.O., and Mr. Justice Ross, P.C.; and on his left by Lord Grenfell,
G.C.B., Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in Ireland; Viscount Iveagh, K.P.; Major-General Sir
Herbert Plumer, K.C.B.; Lieut.-Colonel Sir F. Shaw, D.S.O., 5th Royal Dublin Fusiliers. There
were also present:--

'Sir G. Holmes, K.C.V.O.; Col. Vernon, D.L.; Brig.-Gen. Hammersley, Col. Lindsay, D.L.; Brig.-Gen.
Monro, C.B.; Col. R. St. L. Moore, C.B.; Lieut.-Col. Hackett, 4th R.D.F.; Sir Daniel Hegarty,
Captain Seymour, A.D.C.; Sir T. Myles, Major D. C. Courtney, Alderman Cotton, D.L.; Mr. Gerald
M'Guinness, Col. Doyly Battley, Capt. Cameron, Dr. Wheeler, Mr. G. S. Dockrell, Capt. Halahan,
Col. Chapman, 1st R.D.F.; Sir Horace Plunkett, P.C.; Col. Finlay, Sir John Arnott, Brig.-Gen.
Cooper, C.B.; Mr. G. A. Stevenson, M.O.; Col. Hutcheson Poe, D.L.; Mr. P. Hanson, Sir John
Moore, Major Carington Smith, Major Domville, D.L.; Col. Lyster Smythe, D.L., A.D.C.; Major
Skeet, Capt. Garvice, Capt. Thompson, Mr. H. M. Dockrell, Mr. Wm. Graham, Mr. John Laverty,
Col. F. P. English, D.S.O., 2nd R.D.F.; Mr. R. Dowse, B.L.; Major-Gen. Sir John Maxwell, K.C.B.;
T. A. O'Farrell, J.P.; Surg.-Gen. Edge, C.B.; Col. the Hon. E. Lawless, Col. O'Neill, 3rd R.D.F.;
Sir W. Watson, D.L.; Col. Colville Frankland, Major Lowndes, Mr. James F. Darcy, D.L.; Mr.
J. H. Pentland, R.H.A.; Mr. Key, A.D.C.; Mr. J. A. Pigott, Mr. Robert Mitchell, Mr. R. H. A.
M'Comas, Mr. Major Gorman, Mr. George Healy, Mr. R. Tyson, Mr. R. A. Falconer, Major-Gen. Bunbury,
C.B.; Sir Maurice Dockrell, Brig.-Gen. Mills, C.B.; Sir John Ross of Bladensburg, K.C.B.; Sir
T. Drew, R.H.A.; Sir G. Moyers, D.L.; the Hon. M. Ponsonby, A.D.C.; Sir William Thomson, Sir
C. Cameron, C.B.; Sir L. Ormsby, Col. D. Browne, Mr. R. H. Jephson, Major Knight, Mr. A. E.
Kennedy, Mr. W. A. Shea, Mr. Milward Jones, Mr. F. J. Usher, Mr. J. H. Reid, Mr. Henry L. Barnardo,
Mr. R. P. Jephson.

'After lunch, which was admirably served,

'The Earl of Meath arose, amidst applause, and said:--"The toast list to-day is short, and
contains but one toast, that of The King (applause). His Majesty King Edward occupies a position
amongst rulers which is absolutely unique. He not only rules over twelve million square miles,
one-sixth of the earth's surface, and governs four hundred millions of subjects of all races,
colours, creeds, and conditions of civilisation, from the most advanced to the most backward,
but he is a Monarch whose personal qualities are of so distinguished an order that he has come
to be regarded as a statesman of the first rank (applause). The world watches His Majesty's
movements with breathless interest. Under his masterful touch international difficulties which
seem insuperable are solved, political sores are healed. His presence seems to breathe the
spirit of peace and of goodwill, so that when he undertakes a journey it needs no strong imagination
to picture to oneself the Angel of Peace hovering over his footsteps with healing in her wings
(applause). King Edward is no stranger to Ireland; certainly not to Dublin (renewed applause).
We knew him and loved him as Prince of Wales, and our affection for him has only increased
since he became King, and since we recognised that Ireland and the Irish are as dear to him
as he is to us (applause). We are an open-hearted race, and on each occasion that he has visited
these shores, his kindly, sympathetic, and genial nature has captivated our hearts. He is just
such a monarch as we love (applause). May he be long spared to reign over us and may he often
grace this island with his genial and captivating presence." (Loud applause.)

'The toast was duly honoured, and the festive proceedings terminated.

  'INAUGURATION CEREMONY BY THE DUKE OF CONNAUGHT.
               BRILLIANT FUNCTION.

'Brilliant and strikingly picturesque was the ceremony of unveiling the Royal Dublin Fusiliers'
war memorial in St. Stephen's Green, which took place at four o'clock this afternoon. The weather
was, fortunately, bright, although inclined to be showery, and no heavy rain fell at any stage
to mar the success of the interesting proceedings, which were attended by a very large and
distinguished gathering. Long before the ceremony commenced, a great crowd had assembled in
the Green and its vicinity.

'The military arrangements were of a most elaborate nature, and thoroughly in keeping with
the occasion. The troops of the Dublin Garrison and representative detachments of the Line
and Militia battalions of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers were drawn up in the vicinity of the Memorial
Arch, and presented a very imposing appearance. There was also a representative gathering of
ex-soldiers who had served in the Royal Dublin Fusiliers during the South African war and of
members of the Veterans' Club, who were accommodated in special places reserved for them on
the outside of the arch. After the troops had been drawn up, the massed bands of the 13th Infantry
Brigade played a number of pleasing selections whilst awaiting the arrival of H.R.H. the Duke
of Connaught.

'The magnificent monument, which takes the form of a triumphal arch spanning the north-west
corner of St. Stephen's Green, was greatly admired by the crowd. The noble archway is undoubtedly
a most beautiful and artistic ornament to the city. Twelve feet in width, it springs from rusticated
piers, each intersected by a pedestal and a pair of pilasters supporting a Doric entablature.
The frieze bears on its four elevations the names in gold of the principal actions in the South
African War in which the regiment took part. The entablature is surmounted by an Attic storey
broken over the pilasters, and bearing two inscription panels. The front keystone supports
a bronze cartouche, flanked by branches of bay bearing the arms of the regiment. Within the
arch appear the names of the gallant 212 who perished in the war.

'Loud cheers were raised when, at a quarter to four o'clock, Field-Marshal H.R.H. the Duke
of Connaught arrived on the scene and was received with a Royal salute. He was accompanied
by the Right Hon. the Earl of Meath, President of the Memorial Committee; General the Lord
Grenfell, K.C.B.; Sir George Holmes, K.C.V.O.; the members of the committee, and others who
had attended the luncheon at the Shelbourne Hotel. More cheers rose from the expectant gathering
when, a few minutes later, their Excellencies the Lord Lieutenant and the Countess of Aberdeen
arrived, and were received with a Royal salute. The flag on the Memorial Arch was then half-masted,
and the order was given for the troops to "reverse arms" and "rest on their arms reversed."
The massed bands of the 13th Infantry Brigade played the "Dead March in Saul," after which
"Oft in the Stilly Night" was played by the band of the 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers.
The massed bugles of the 13th Infantry Brigade then sounded "The Last Post," and the flag on
the Memorial Arch was mast-headed.

'His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant extended a hearty welcome to the Duke of Connaught, and
congratulated the Memorial Committee, and every one connected with the undertaking, upon the
successful manner in which it had been carried out.

'The Earl of Meath, in requesting his Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught to open the gates
of the archway, said:--"Your Royal Highness, we meet to-day for the purpose of honouring the
memory of the gallant men belonging to the Royal Dublin Fusiliers who sacrificed their lives
for King and country in the late South African war. By the aid of subscriptions raised throughout
the city and county of Dublin and its neighbourhood, a large sum of money has been collected,
and I trust that your Royal Highness will agree with the general opinion that a very handsome
and satisfactory memorial has been raised, worthy of the heroes whose fame it is destined to
perpetuate. As the only surviving brother of the gracious and mighty Sovereign whose uniform
these heroes wore when they died in the defence of their country's interests, and as Colonel
of the regiment in which they so faithfully served, it is fit and proper that you, Sir, should
have been invited to perform the ceremony of opening the gates of the arch erected to their
memory. We who have been actively concerned with the erection of the memorial most sincerely
and gratefully thank your Royal Highness for the honour you have done the regiment by thus
personally identifying yourself with the effort to keep fresh in the minds of their fellow-countrymen
the gallant deeds performed by those heroes whom to-day we delight to honour. Irish gallantry
and Irish fidelity to King and country are well known. Wherever British arms have penetrated,
there the record of Irish valour need not be sought in brass or stone, but in the soil itself,
which has been made sacred to Erin's sons by the knowledge that it holds the mortal remains
of hearts which have been faithful to duty and to high ideals of Irish valour even to the gates
of death. But, sir, it may safely be said that not in the Peninsula, nor in India--where this
regiment under its old title, in a hundred fights never knew the meaning of the word defeat--did
Irish soldiers ever cover themselves with greater glory than did the Dublin Fusiliers in the
battles of South Africa--Talana, Colenso, Tugela Heights, Hart's Hill, Ladysmith, and Laing's
Nek. These glorious contests are commemorated on the memorial arch which your Royal Highness
will shortly declare open. Situated in the centre of the Irish capital this memorial, recording
the gallant deeds of brave men, will be an ever-present reminder to coming generations of the
citizens of Dublin of the obligations of loyalty, of faithfulness to duty and to honour which
Ireland demands of all her sons. I have the honour, sir, on behalf of the Dublin Fusilier Memorial
Committee, to ask your Royal Highness to declare the gates of the archway to be open."

'As his Royal Highness formally opened the gate, the massed bands played the National Anthem.

'Headed by H.R.H. the Duke of Connaught, the troops then marched through the arch with bayonets
fixed, the Royal Dublin Fusiliers leading, and the other battalions following in regimental
seniority, headed by their bands. Loud cheers were raised as the soldiers passed out into Grafton
Street, and proceeded down that thoroughfare, which was thickly lined on either side with spectators.
At College Green the troops separated, and marched off to their respective quarters.

       *       *       *       *       *

'The memorial which was inaugurated to-day forms a handsome addition to the ornamental architecture
of the city. It stands in one of the most prominent and most beautiful parts of the city, and
is a striking adornment to the main entrance to Stephen's Green Park. The luxuriant trees and
foliage of the park form a capital background to the fine imposing arch, the design for which
was suggested by Sir Thomas Drew, composed entirely of Irish granite; the height of the memorial
is thirty-two feet six inches, and the breadth twenty-seven feet three inches. The ornamental
iron gates leading into the principal carriage-drive of the park are cast out of metal taken
from guns captured by the British Army from enemies in the past, and suspended over the keystone
there will be an interesting trophy consisting of the Crest and Arms of the regiment. In front
a large millstone will bear the inscription:--

  FORTISSIMIS SUIS MILITIBUS
      HOC MONUMENTUM
  EBLANA DEDICAVIT. MCMVI.[21]

         [Footnote 21: 'To her brave soldiers Dublin has dedicated
         this Monument. 1906.']

'In big letters in the frieze appear the names of the important battles in which the battalions
of the regiment took part, and on the back of the arch the inscription:--"In memory of the
officers, non-commissioned officers, and men of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers who died in the
service of the country during the South African War, 1899-1902."

'The Earl of Meath, H.M.L., President of the Memorial Committee, and his colleagues, including
the Earl of Drogheda, Sir Maurice Dockrell, Sir Thomas Drew, Colonel Gore Lindsay, and Colonel
Vernon, are to be congratulated upon the successful result of their indefatigable efforts.
When the project was first mooted, it met with enthusiastic support, and the necessary sum
of 1800l. was quickly raised to cover the cost of erection.

'The plans were designed by Mr. Howard Pentland, of the Board of Works, in consultation with
Sir Thomas Drew, and Messrs. Laverty & Son, Belfast, carried out the contract.

'The losses of the 1st and 2nd Battalions of this famous regiment in the Boer war totalled
31 officers and 655 non-commissioned officers and men. The glorious and inspiring deeds performed
by these two battalions during the terrible engagements which led to the relief of Ladysmith
are still fresh in the memory of their proud countrymen. Throughout the whole of the arduous
campaign, indeed, the regiment nobly upheld the finest tradition of the Irish soldier, and
gained the admiration and respect of friend and foe alike. The 5th Battalion lost, in several
minor engagements, two officers and ten men killed, and eight wounded.'

EPILOGUE.

With the opening of the Memorial the curtain drops on the last scene of the drama of the South
African war, and the regiment's share in it. To the large majority of those present the ceremony
was probably merely a spectacular entertainment, but its real significance was borne fully
home to us, even without the sight of more than one poor woman, silently weeping from the re-opening
of the never-healed wound in her heart. For there is nothing truer than that a victory is only
less terrible than a defeat, and as the sad strains of the wailing music fell on our ears,
our thoughts flew back through the many happy years of good-comradeship we had spent with the
gallant friends whom we have never ceased to mourn, and whose names will be treasured memories
as long as the regiment endures.

But with the opening of the gates by our Colonel-in-Chief a fresh chapter in the history of
the regiment commenced, and all that remains for us who share in the triumph of the present
is to emulate in the future the noble deeds of those who gave their lives in willing, cheerful
sacrifice for their sovereign, their country, and their regiment.

THE END.

APPENDIX

I.

ROLL OF DEATH CASUALTIES.

KILLED IN ACTION.

   No. Rank and Name.    Place of        Cause.       Date.    Remarks.
                         Death.
  ----+-----------------+---------------+------------+--------+--------
       Capt. Weldon      Talana Hill     Killed in
                                         action       20/10/99
  5103 Pte. Cahill         "                "            "
  5794  " Merrill          "                "            "
  5933  " Crotty           "                "            "
  5918  " Callaghan        "                "            "
  5795  " Balfe          Chieveley          "         15/11/99 Armoured
                                                                 Train
  5031  " Birney           "                "            "        "
  5546  " O'Shea         Colenso            "          1/11/99 While on
                                                                 patrol, M.I.
       Lieut. Henry        "                "         15/12/99
  3441 Sgt. Hayes          "                "            "
  4488 Pte. Smith          "                "            "
  5930  " Sinnott          "                "            "
  5123  " Broderick        "                "            "
  5319 L.-Cpl. Coyne       "                "            "
  5833 Pte. Dillon         "                "            "
  4795  "   Murphy         "                "            "
  4380  "   Doolan         "                "            "
  4299  "   McAlpine       "                "            "
  5044  "   Moore          "                "            "
  4560  "   Clifford       "                "            "
  4838  "   Flood          "                "            "
  6287 L.-Cpl. Gibson      "                "            "
  6134 Pte. Pearse         "                "            "
  6044 L.-Cpl. Cathcart    "                "            "
  4462 Pte. Murphy         "                "            "
  6165  "   Bennett        "                "            "
  6297  "   Campion        "                "            "
  4679  "   Bowen        Potgieter's Drift  "           8/2/00
       Capt. Hensley     Venter's Spruit    "          20/1/00
  5668 L.-Sgt. Taylor      "                "            "
       Lt.-Col. Sitwell  Hart's Hill        "          24/2/00
       Capt. Maitland      "                "            "
  4261 Cpl. Seymour        "                "            "
  4871 Pte. White          "                "            "
  5359  "   Galbraith      "                "            "
  6296  "   Allen        Pieter's Hill      "          27/2/00
  3303  "   Timmins      Hart's Hill        "          24/2/00 Militia
                                                                4th R.D.F.
  4012  "   Armstrong      "                "            "     Militia
                                                                5th R.D.F.
  2037  "   Whelan         "                "            "       "
  2872  "   Wade           "                "            "       "
  5073  "   Kinsella     Pieter's Hill      "          27/2/00
  5618  "   Purcell        "                "            "
  1769 Sgt. Brennan        "                "            "     Section 'D'
  1717 Pte. Shirwin        "                "            "     Militia
                                                                5th R.D.F.
  2327  "   Grimes         "                "            "      "
  5573  "   Tyrrell      Near Talana        "         20/10/99
  5987  Pte. Mahoney     Near Talana        "         20/10/99
  4864  " Byrne            "                "            "
  5861  " McGuire       Chieveley           "         15/11/99 Armoured train
  2112  " Kelly         Hart's Hill         "          23/2/00 Section 'D'
  6171  " Kavanagh      Colenso             "         15/12/99
  6011  Cpl. Sinnot    Steelkoolspruit      "         25/10/01
  4621  Pte. Hyland    Nr. Krugersdorp   Murdered by
                                         Boers          6/1/01 Found riddled
                                                               with bullets

II.

DIED OF WOUNDS.

   No. Rank and Name.    Place of        Cause.       Date.    Remarks.
                         Death.
  ----+-----------------+--------------+---------+--------+--------
       2nd-Lt. Genge     Talana Hill    Of wounds 21/10/99
  1166 C.-Sgt. Anderson    "               "         "
  5263 Pte. Johnston     Maritzburg        "      27/11/99 Arm. train
                                                             disaster
  3467 Clr.-Sgt. Gage      "               "      20/12/99 Battle of Colenso
  6293 Pte. Crosbie      Spearman's Cmp    "       26/1/00   " Venter's Spruit
  1823  " Finnegan       Hart's Hill       "       25/2/00 Section 'D'
   219  " Oldham         Chieveley         "        3/3/00 Battle of Hart's
                                                             Hill
  3648  " Norton         Maritzburg        "        2/3/00 Battle of Hart's
                                                             Hill
  5745  " Brady          Colenso           "          "    Battle of Pieter's
                                                             Hill
  6299  " Kelly          Maritzburg        "        8/3/00 Battle of Pieter's
                                                             Hill
  5349  " Bracken          "               "       16/3/00 Battle of Hart's
                                                             Hill
  3094 Sgt. Broughton    Dundee            "      22/10/99 Battle of Talana
  2753 Pte. Frahill        "               "      28/11/99   "           "
  4029  " Quirke         Colenso           "        1/3/00   "       Colenso
  5706  " McEvoy         Johannesburg      "      11/11/01
  6347  " Nugent         Bakenlaagte       "      31/10/01
  5710  " Keegan         Dthala            "       8/10/03

III.

DEATHS BY DISEASE.

   No. Rank and Name.    Place of        Cause.       Date.    Remarks.
                         Death.
  ----+-----------------+---------------+------------+--------+--------

  5102 Pte. Phelan       Frere           Enteric      24/12/99
   642 Q.M.S. Hynes      Maritzburg      Pneumonia      7/1/00
  2865 Sgt. Linehan      Pretoria        Dysentery    16/12/99
  5519 Pte. Brennan      Maritzburg      Abscess liver  7/1/00
  3498  " Dunphy           "             Dysentery     19/1/00
  6129  " Homan          Mooi River      Enteric       22/2/00
  4593  " Keating          "               "           15/2/00
  5368  " Walsh          Cape Town       Tumour brain 26/11/99
  2775  " Ward           Ladysmith       Enteric        7/2/00
  5317  " Maher          Estcourt          "            8/3/00
  6510  " Tobin          Ladysmith       Dysentery     22/3/00
  5909  " Dixon            "               "           25/3/00
  5801  " Martin         Chieveley         "           24/4/00
  5790 Pte. Greene       Mooi River      Enteric       15/4/00
       2nd Lt. Dennis    Aliwal North      "            2/5/00
  1600 Pte. O'Brien        "               "              "    3rd R.D. Fus.
  4791  "   O'Connor     Mooi River        "            3/5/00
  5200  "   Hart           "             Fractured thigh
                                                        1/5/00
  3380  "   Cummings     Aliwal North    Enteric pneumonia
                                                        5/5/00 3rd R.D. Fus.
  3760  "   Keogh        Chieveley       Enteric          "
  4012  "   Mack         Aliwal North      "           12/5/00
  5847  "   O'Carroll      "             Enteric phthisis
                                                       15/5/00
  4566  "   Gray         Kimberley       Enteric       17/5/00
  5622  "   Corr         Maritzburg      Ague          28/2/00
  4131 Cpl. Looney       Woolwich        Dysentery     24/3/00
       Lieut. Ely        At sea          Enteric       15/4/00
  6049 Pte. Neill        Kimberley         "           23/5/00
  6309 L.-Cpl. McGinley    "               "            8/6/00
  6608 Pte. Behan          "               "           19/6/00
  4686  "   Ears         Wynberg           "           25/6/00
  7049  "   Roach        Heidelberg      Pneumonia     14/7/00
  5881  "   Pooley         "             Enteric       18/7/00
  4499 O.R.S. Hanrahan   Maritzburg      g.s. skull     2/7/00 Suicide
  5873 Pte. Hunt         At sea          Enteric       26/4/00
  3998  "   Kenny        Krugersdorp     Pneumonia     12/9/00
  1741  "   Burke        Johannesburg      "           11/9/00 Section 'D'
  4737 Cpl. Wilson       Maritzburg        "          27/10/00
  5741 Pte. Dwyer        Germiston       Enteric      31/10/00
  5697  "   Davis        Pretoria                     29/11/00 Died in
                                                                 hospital,
                                                                 prisoner
                                                                 of war
  5181  "   Clark        Kaalfontein     Lightning    24/11/00
  6800  "   Connor       Johannesburg    Enteric      25/11/00
  5967  "   Sutton       Krugersdorp     Jaundice      18/1/00
  2961  "   Ambrose      Johannesburg    Enteric        3/2/01
  6770  "   Cassidy      Bloemfontein      "           22/3/01
  1346  "   Hanlon       Maritzburg        "            5/4/00
  6109  "   Buckley      Cork            Insane
  3910 L.-Cpl. Stewart   Gaskraal          "           28/8/01
  6491 Pte. O'Connor       "               "              "
  5532  "   Peel         Krugersdorp     Enteric       14/8/01
  4657  "   Mooney         "               "          22/12/01
  5397  "   Melia        Kroonstad         "          27/12/01
  5540  "   Quinn        Krugersdorp     Drowned       14/1/02
  6028 Sgt. Pearson      At sea          Enteric        7/2/02
  5303 Pte. Furlong      Aden            Heat apoplexy 29/5/02
  4938  "   Moore          "             Heart disease  9/8/02
  4921 Sgt. Smith          "             Syncope       13/9/02
  4565 Pte. Dunne          "             Multiple  neuritis
                                                      10/10/02
  5686  "   Gray                         Diseased liver
                                                      11/10/02
  3661  "   Mooney       Krugersdorp     Enteric        6/7/01 4th R.D. Fus.
  6332  "   Merrigan     Aden              "           8/11/02
  7547 Boy Roberts       Dthala          Pneumonia      8/3/03
  7182 Pte. Dempsey        "             Enteric      13/10/03
  5944  "   Wynne        Aden            Consumption    2/3/04

IV.

LIST OF WOUNDED.

   Reg.
   No. Rank and Name.    Date.      Place.      Nature of Wound. Remarks.
  ----+-----------------+---------+------------+----------------+---------
       Capt. M. Lowndes  20/10/99  Talana       g.s. leg
         "   Dibley          "        "         g.s. head
       Lieut. Perreau        "        "         g.s. shoulder
  5686 Pte. Gray             "        "
  2753  "   Frahill          "        "
  5310  "   Black            "        "
  4815  "   Doyle            "        "
  4700  "   Leonard          "        "
  4894 Sgt. Grace            "        "
  5430 Pte. Babester         "        "
  5317  "    Maher           "        "
  4790  "    O'Brien         "        "
  5047  "    Greer           "        "
  4359  "    Smith           "        "
  4699  "    Callaghan       "        "
  4931  "    Righton         "        "
  5947  "    Dwyer           "        "
    43 Sgt.-Maj. Burke       "        "
  3770 Col.-Sgt McNeice      "        "
  5426 Sgt. Walton           "        "
  3139  "    McKenna         "        "
  6264 Pte. Carroll          "        "
  6125  "    Dempsey         "        "
  5038  "    Richardson      "        "
  5523  "    Ryan            "        "
  4620  "    Summerville     "        "
  5635  "    Tracey          "        "
  6084  "    Brady           "        "
  4910 Dmr. Brudnell         "        "
  5078 Pte. Gorman           "        "
  5643  "    Cullen          "        "
  5011  "    Brennan         "        "
  4382  "    Jordan          "        "
  4766  "    Murphy          "        "
  4592  "    Cullen          "        "
  6096  "    Gilhooley       "        "
  3704  "    Kearns          "        "
  4857  "    Butler          "        "
  4767  "    Byrne           "        "
  6022  "    Cassin          "        "
  5156  "    Fitzpatrick     "        "
  5118  "    Magee           "        "
  5142  "    Murray          "        "
  5063  "    Kelly           "        "
  5595  "    Reynolds        "        "
  4948  "    Wilby           "        "
  2156 Cpl. Hogan            "        "
  5634 L.-Cpl. Keenan        "        "
  4593 Pte. Flood            "        "
  5137  "    McGrath         "        "
  4785  "    Hopkins         "        "
  5531  "    Hatt            "        "
  4444  "    Creegan         "        "
  4347  "    Lahey           "        "
  5914  "    Coyle       15/11/99  Armr. Train  shell, arm
       Capt. Shewan      15/12/99  Colenso      g.s. thigh
  4341 Sgt. Doherty          "        "         g.s. shoulders
  4986 L.-Sgt. Gibbons       "        "         g.s. arm
  5668  "       Taylor       "        "         g.s. shoulder
  3150 Sgt. Towey            "        "         g.s. hand and foot
   501  "    Hamilton        "        "         g.s. foot
  5108  "    Bodkin          "        "         g.s. leg
  5628 L.-Sgt. Church        "        "         g.s. leg
  5374 Cpl. Loughran         "        "         g.s. thigh
  6684 Pte. O'Brien          "        "         g.s. hand
  5117  "    Lillis          "        "         g.s. foot
  4589  "    Whelan          "        "         g.s. hand
  5637  "    Taylor          "        "         g.s. thigh
  4898  "    Walker          "        "         g.s. head
  5687  "    Enright         "        "         g.s. hand
  5869  "    Mackey          "        "         g.s. knee
  5584  "    Carr            "        "         g.s. hip
  6145  "    Byrne           "        "         g.s. elbow
  6103  "    Cooney          "        "         g.s. foot
  4997  "    Ludlow          "        "         g.s. arm
  4201 Dmr. Webb             "        "         g.s. thigh
  5970 L.-Cpl. Cooper        "        "         g.s. leg
  6094  "    Hanley          "        "         g.s. leg
  5760 Pte. Brown            "        "         g.s. leg
  5765  "    Welsh           "        "         g.s. foot
  4545  "    Flood           "        "         g.s. thigh
  4959  "    Smith           "        "         g.s. hand
  5672  "    Sanders         "        "         g.s. leg
  5661  "    Murphy          "        "         g.s. foot
  4582  "    McCarthy        "        "         g.s. head
  4395  "    Ellis           "        "         g.s. arm
  4290 Sgt. Hunt             "        "         g.s. wrist and thigh
  4987 Pte. Reilly           "        "
  4552  "    Kelly           "        "         g.s. thigh
  3362 Dmr. Murphy           "        "
  4411 Pte. Murray           "        "
  5716  "    Lahey           "        "
  6038  "    Kelly           "        "
  3013 Sgt. Healey           "        "
  4726 Pte. O'Brien          "        "
  5848  "    Townsend        "        "
  5834 Pte. McBride          "        "         g.s. hip
  5520  " Hackett            "        "
  4441 L.-Sgt. Merry         "        "         g.s. thigh
  5023 L.-Cpl. Hayes         "        "         g.s. feet
  4543 Pte. Keating          "        "         g.s. foot
  6123  " Kelly              "        "
  4800  " Walsh              "        "
  4226  " Reilly             "        "         g.s. hand
  6137  " O'Brien            "        "         g.s. thigh
  2442  " Leary              "        "
  5151  " Clark              "        "
       Maj. English       20/1/00  Vent. Spruit g.s. leg
  6105 L.-Cpl. Kidd          "        "         g.s. neck
  6796 Pte. Burke            "        "         g.s. foot
  6285  " Healey             "        "         g.s. back
  3141  " Rooney             "        "         g.s. arm
  4644  " Burke              "        "         g.s. hip, thigh
  5997  " Davis              "        "         g.s. thigh, leg
  5458  " Burke              "        "         g.s. neck
  5873  " Hunt               "        "         g.s. head
  5659  " Walsh              "        "         g.s. leg
  5069  " Lee                "        "         g.s. hand
  6121  " Brien              "        "         g.s. thigh
  2892 L.-Sgt. Ryan       21/1/00     "         g.s. foot
  3548 Sgt. Cragg            "        "         g.s. hand
  6047 Pte. Cole             "        "         g.s. arm
  6391  " Richardson         "        "         g.s. foot
  4898 L.-Cpl. Walker        "        "
  6366 Pte. Molloy           "        "         g.s. right leg
  6310  " Gibney             "        "         g.s. leg
  5883  " Marshall           "        "         g.s. hand
  5283  " Shaughnessey       "        "         g.s. left leg
  5904  " Edwards            "        "         g.s. right hand
  4636 Cpl. Reynolds         "        "         g.s. chin
  4368 Pte. Githens          "        "         g.s. arm
  5056  " Lordan          22/1/00     "         g.s. thigh
  4794  " Murray          23/1/00     "         g.s. right forearm
  4689 L.-Sgt. O'Higgins     "        "         g.s. chest
  4384 Pte. Ring             "        "         g.s. head, shoulder
  5888  " Kenny              "        "         g.s. head, shoulder
  6484  " Duffy              "        "         g.s. hip
  5882 Sgt.-Dmr. Smith    25/1/00     "
  5900 Pte. Mason            "        "         g.s. hand
  6569  " Conroy             "        "         g.s. foot
       2nd Lieut. Lane    23/2/00  Hart's Hill  g.s. head
        " Dennis             "        "         g.s. left leg
  2872 Pte. Wade             "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  4012  " Armstrong          "        "
  3303  " Timmins            "        "
  5167 Pte. McDonnell        "        "
  5928  "   Pender           "        "         g.s. right hand
  4791  "   Connor           "        "         g.s. chest
  4817  "   Iliffe           "        "
  4559  "   McCabe           "        "
  2426  "   O'Beirne         "        "
  6522  "   Ryan             "        "         g.s. right hip   1st Battalion
  5461 L.-Cpl. Dennehy       "        "
  5387 Pte. Brannagan        "        "         g.s. chest
  4771  "   Johnston         "        "         g.s. left thigh
  5765  "   Ward             "        "         g.s. arm and knee
  4557  "   McCarthy         "        "         g.s. back
  5811  "   Ryan             "        "         g.s. arm
  2921  "   Thompson         "        "
  6355  "   Fagan            "        "
   148  "   Metcalf          "        "         g.s. right arm   5th R.D. Fus.
  2096  "   Farrell          "        "
  1557  "   Kinsella         "        "
  4530  "   Brown            "        "         g.s. groin
  5684  "   Hetherston       "        "         g.s. chest
  6333  "   Newsome          "        "         g.s. left arm
  3631  "   McDonald         "        "         g.s. left shoulder
  1997  "   Brady            "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  6110  "   Kelly            "        "
  2387  "   Strain           "        "         g.s. buttock
  3068  "   Adams            "        "
  5069  "   Lee              "        "
  4424  "   Mulvaney         "        "
  4621  "   Hyland           "        "         g.s. left thigh
  5836  "   Cullen           "        "         g.s. right wrist
  3313  "   Concannon        "        "         g.s. right shoulder
  6498  "   Flannagan        "        "         g.s. chest
  1741  "   Burke            "        "         g.s. left arm
  2422  "   Morgan           "        "
  2787  "   Brien            "        "         g.s. left knee
  4325  "   Curran           "        "         g.s. left leg
  6108  "   Bernes           "        "
  5908  "   McDonald         "        "
  1881  "   Reynolds         "        "                          4th R.D. Fus.
  4015  "   Lynch            "        "
  2348  "   Maddox           "        "         g.s. left shoulder
  4029  "   Quirk            "        "
  6217  "   Valentine        "        "
  3881  "   Talbot           "        "
  6314  "   Early            "        "
  5224  "   McNeill          "        "
  4277  "   Mack             "        "
  4994  "   Knoctor          "        "         g.s. right leg
  3441  "   O'Grady          "        "         g.s. left hand   4th R.D. Fus.
  5982  "   Tighe            "        "         g.s. head
  347   "   Doyle            "        "         g.s. left hand
  6130  "   Mason            "        "                          3rd R.D. Fus.
  5141  "   Kirwan           "        "         g.s. right foot
  4569  "   Gorman        27/2/00  Pieter's Hill
                                                g.s. shoulder
  5399  "   Connor           "        "
  5828  "   Kegney           "        "
   847  "   Mangan           "        "                          3rd R.D. Fus.
  1716  "   Quinn            "        "                                "
  5716  "   Leahy            "        "
  5981  "   Broad            "        "
  5698  "   Toomey           "        "
   350  "   Murphy           "        "                          3rd R.D. Fus.
  1846  "   Kealey           "        "                                "
  4741  "   Moore            "        "
  4903 Cpl. Marshall         "        "
  5379 Pte. Pryor            "        "
  2368  "   Byrne            "        "
  4878  "   Clark            "        "
  6524  "   Quaid            "        "
  1554  "   Brennan          "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  5757  "   Kelly            "        "
  5284  "   Farrell          "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  3361  "   Brady            "        "                                "
  1765  "   Fagan            "        "
  6429  "   Fox              "        "
  4777  "   Mullane          "        "
  3253  "   Mellington       "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  5280  "   Daly             "        "
   639  "   Whelan           "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  6139  "   Dignam           "        "
  2917  "   Ferris           "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  3242  "   McHale           "        "                                "
  3266  "   Evans            "        "
  1377  "   Farrell          "        "
  4474  "   McLoughlin       "        "
  6113  "   McCormack        "        "
  1651  "   Kinsella         "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
  3639  "   Brien            "        "                                "
  3282  "   O'Brien          "        "         g.s. hand
  1846  "   Gradwell         "        "                          5th R.D. Fus.
   174  "   Lawless          "        "         g.s. foot, right hand  "
  1284  "   Molloy           "        "                                "
  1508  "   Donnelly         "        "
  5704  "   Kennedy          "        "
  2236  "   Tuite            "        "         g.s. right heel  5th R.D. Fus.
  4317  "   Carpenter        "        "
  3231  "   Mallon        21/7/00  Zuikerbosch  g.s. right thigh 4th R.D. Fus.
  2853  "   O'Brien          "        "         g.s. left thigh        "
  1143 Pte. Stanton          "        "                          4th R.D. Fus.
  2961 Col.-Sgt. Cossey      "        "
       Maj. English          "        "         slight shell splinter, eye
  6786 Pte. Reilly        15/9/00  Nr. Frdkstdt.                 On convoy duty
  2392 Sgt. James         21/9/00     "         very slight g.s. leg
  6070 Pte. Angleton      2/10/00  Near Irene   g.s. foot        With M.I.
       Lieut. Haskard     27/2/00  Pieter's Hill
                                                right elbow
       2nd Lieut. Bradford   "        "         shoulder
  2692 Pte. Doyle        31/12/00  Nr. Krugersdorp
                                                g.s. buttock
  5767  "   Lang             "     Nooitgedacht
  2052  "   Armstrong      2/2/01  Gatsrand     g.s. left arm, very slight
  6265  "   Roach            "        "         g.s. right leg, slight
  4981  "   Sheehan          "     Nr. Carolina g.s. neck
  5718  "   Kavanagh         "        "         g.s. left knee
  4365  "   Moran            "        "         g.s. left shoulder
  4680  "   Fitzgerald       "        "         g.s. left arm
  6057  "   Goff             "        "         g.s. chest
  5433  "   Holmes        28/8/01  Gaskraal
  4840  "   Nolan            "        "
  4858  "   Butler        27/7/01  Nr. Wonderfontein
  4680  "   Fitzgerald   25/10/01  Swartzfontein
                                                g.s. hand, severe
  5706  "   McEvoy           "        "         g.s. buttock, groin
  3761 Sgt. Carroll      30/10/01  Bakenlaagte  g.s. leg, very slight
  4473 Pte. Hand             "        "         g.s. knee, severe
  4448  "   Murphy           "        "         g.s. foot, slight
  4513  "   Connor           "        "         g.s. hip, severe
  5706  "   Moran            "        "         g.s. hand, severe
  6347  "   Nugent           "        "         g.s. abdomen
  4686 Cpl. Curtis       15/12/99  Colenso      g.s. hand
  5548 Pte. Metcalf          "        "         g.s. left leg
  4453  "   White            "        "         g.s. both legs
  6330 L.-Cpl. Matthews   21/1/00  Vent. Spruit g.s. leg
  5330 Pte. Holohan       27/2/00  Pieter's Hill
  5973 Cpl. Gaffney       7/10/03  Aden Hntlnd. g.s. severe, foot
  6367 Pte. Daly             "        "         g.s. very slight
  5584  "   Carr             "        "         g.s. severe, chest

V.

BATTLE OF TALANA.

REPORTED MISSING SINCE OCTOBER 21ST, 1899.

  Reg. No.   Rank and Name.
  ---------+-----------------
    2615     Clr.-Sgt. Gage
    2078     Sgt. Martin
    4388      "   Guilfoyle
    3761      "   Carroll
    5328     L.-Sgt. Payne
    5178      "      Crean
    5094     Cpl. Corrigan
    5544      "   Richards
    6028      "   Pearson
    5004      "   Kiernan
    5601     L.-Cpl. Lee
    5143      "   Flynn
    5304      "   Whelan
    4812      "   Lyons
    4868      "   Green
    5033      "   Byrne
    4947      "   Harper
    4638     Pte. Mahon
    4966      "   Murphy
    4359      "   Hall
    4655      "   Cullen
    5175      "   Reddy
    5143      "   Flynn
    5759      "   Dowling
    5070      "   Angleton
    5402      "   Rourke
    5209      "   Dunne
    5793      "   Murphy
    4513      "   Connor
    5055      "   Reidy
    5609      "   Connor
    5162      "   Macken
    5929      "   Carroll
    5956      "   Rourke
    4498      "   Watts
    4884      "   Kenny
    5876      "   Molloy
    5647      "   Harrison
    6087      "   Tyrrell
    4788      "   Toomey
    4366      "   Doyle
    5931      "   Bracken
    3752      "   Travers
    5733      "   Kavanagh
    6055      "   Gough
    5266      "   Bigley
    5479      "   Brien
    5489      "   Geoghegan
    6019      "   Curran
    5918      "   Callaghan
    4411      "   Cooney
    5706      "   McEvoy
    5600      "   Gleeson
    5000      "   Nulty
    4974      "   Costello
    5889      "   Keogh
    5501      "   Mannix
    5127      "   Battersby
    5352      "   White
    4864      "   Byrne
    5390      "   Doyle
    5126      "   Farrell
    5714      "   Finnigan
    5055      "   Reidy
    5345      "   Dunne
    5789      "   Flood
    4964      "   Gibney
    5987      "   Mahoney
    5030      "   Callaghan
    5126      "   Delaney
    4692      "   McGuinness
    6018      "   McDonagh
    5693      "   Keating
    4532      "   Kirwan
    6866      "   Molloy
    5427      "   Carr
    4142      "   Lyons
    6120      "   Cullen
    4927      "   Kane
    5545      "   Reilly
    5702      "   Byrne
    5724      "   Dempsey
    5218      "   Reilly
    5880      "   Carroll
    5144      "   Williams
    5027      "   Doody
    4473      "   Hand
    4566      "   Glynn
    5184      "   Dowler
    5551      "   Finn
    5912      "   Kavanagh
    5182      "   Cavanagh
    5350      "   Farrell
    4692      "   McGann

VI.

REPORTED MISSING SINCE OCTOBER 22ND, 1899.

  Reg. No.   Rank and Name.
  --------+-----------------
    5022    Pte. Rourke
    4998     "   Hawthorn
    5246     "   McGuinness
    4327     "   Neill
    5321     "   Moran

VII.

REPORTED MISSING SINCE OCTOBER 30TH, 1899.

  Reg. No.   Rank and Name.
  --------+----------------
    5524    Pte. Wall
    5503    Pte. Hennessey

VIII.

REPORTED MISSING SINCE NOVEMBER 15TH, 1899

(ARMOURED TRAIN DISASTER).

  Reg. No.   Rank and Name.
  --------+------------------
    3672    Sgt. Hassett
    5114    Cpl. Hallahan
    5800    Pte. Buckley
    6293     "   Kempster
    5499     "   Byrne
    4497     "   Barry
    5755     "   Collins
    6140     "   Dunphy
    5741     "   Dwyer
    5256     "   Kavanagh
    5691     "   O'Rourke
    5626     "   Buckley
    5968     "   Glynn
    5057     "   Kirwan
    5017     "   Pakenham
    5239     "   Herbert
    6283     "   Cragg
    5790     "   Murray
    5210     "   Rice
    5329     "   Stanton
    4680     "   Fitzgerald
    5548     "   Metcalf
    3715   Sgt.  Osborne
    5795   Pte.  Balfe
    5316     "   Daly
    5516     "   Scully
    4443     "   Hoey
    5031     "   Bierney
    5697     "   Davis
    5297     "   Drew
    5841     "   Hoy
    5287     "   Lynch
    5908     "   Murphy
    6308     "   Connell
    6116     "   Harty
    6228     "   Meehan
    5297     "   Doogan
    6319     "   Burke
    4676     "   Driscoll
    4865     "   Reynolds
    6354     "   Sheridan
    5861     "   McGuire
    4542     "   Flannagan

IX.

LIST OF OFFICERS IN NATAL CAMPAIGN.

  Rank and Name.                  Remarks.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Col.   Cooper                   Commanding 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers.
  Maj.   Bird                     2nd in command.
   "     English, A Company       Wounded at Venter's Spruit and Zuikerbosch.
  Capt.  Hensley, G Company       Killed at Venter's Spruit.
   "     Weldon, E Company        Killed at Talana.
   "     Fetherstonhaugh, D Coy.  Acted as Adjutant after Capt. Lowndes
                                    was wounded.
   "     Dibley, B Company        Wounded at Talana, and sent into Intombi
                                    Hospital.
   "     Lonsdale, M.I. Company   Captured at Talana.
  Lieut. Shewan, H Company        Wounded at Colenso.
   "     Perreau                  Wounded at Talana, and sent into Intombi
                                     Hospital.
   "     Le Mesurier              Captured at Talana. Escaped from Pretoria.
   "     Grimshaw                 Captured at Talana.
   "     Cory                     Was sent with M.I. Section to Dundonald's
                                     Brigade.
   "     Renny                    Transport Officer. Left in Ladysmith.
  2nd Lieut. Haskard              Wounded at Pieter's Hill.
   "         Henry                Killed at Colenso.
   "         Frankland            Captured in Armoured Train.
   "         Genge                Killed at Talana.
  Capt. Lowndes (Adjutant)        Wounded at Talana, and sent into Intombi
                                     Hospital.
  Lieut. and Qtmr. Rowland        Went to S. A. C.
  Lieut. Garvice                  Joined battalion at Dundee; captured
                                    at Talana.
  2nd Lieut. Ely                  Joined battalion at Dundee, and died
                                    of enteric, 1900.
  Lieut. H. W. Higginson          Joined on posting, and shared in siege
                                    of Ladysmith.
  Capt. Romer                     Joined from Staff College on Oct. 30th.
  Capt. Haldane and Lieut.        The former was captured in the Armoured
    Maitland (of Gordon             Train, and escaped from
    Highlanders)                    Pretoria with Lieut. Le Mesurier;
                                    the latter killed at Hart's Hill.
  2nd Lieut. Britton              Joined on November 5th. After Colenso
                                    he acted as Transport Officer.
  Brevet-Lieut.-Col. Sitwell      Joined on November 8th, and commanded
                                    C Company. He was killed
                                    at Hart's Hill.
  2nd Lieut. Lane                 Joined on December 6th. He was
                                    wounded at Hart's Hill.

X.

The following Officers of the 1st Battalion and other corps joined on December 7th and subsequent
dates:--

  Rank and Name.                 Remarks.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Maj. Hicks                     Returned to 1st Battalion after Colenso.
                                   Succeeded Col. Cooper in command
                                   of 2nd Battalion, March 1900.
   "    Gordon                   Wounded at Colenso.
  Capt. Bacon                    Killed at Colenso.
  2nd Lieut. De Salis            Promoted into another regiment.
   "         Brodhurst Hill      Wounded at Hart's Hill.
   "         Halahan
   "         Macleod             Wounded at Colenso.
   "         Winnington          (Worcestershire Regiment). Attached.
   "         Wheeler             Joined December 23rd.
   "         Dennis              Joined December 27th, and died of enteric
                                   at Aliwal North.
  Capt. Venour                   Joined on January 30th.
  Lieut. Hill                    Joined on January 30th. Wounded at
                                   Hart's Hill.
  2nd Lieut. Bradford            Joined on January 30th. Wounded at
                                   Pieter's Hill.
  Capt. Sir Frederick Frankland, (3rd Bedford Regiment). Joined on
    Bart.                          March 2nd.
  Lieut. G. S. Higginson         Joined on March 11th.
  Lieut. Nelson, R.M.L.I.        Joined on March 29th.
  Capt. Clark,      "            Joined on April 1st.

Col. C. D. Cooper took over a brigade, with Lieut. Renny as his A.D.C., early in 1900. It will
thus be seen that Capt. Fetherstonhaugh was the only officer who was with the regiment from
start to finish who was not hit.

XI.

TOTAL CASUALTIES OF OFFICERS OF THE 1st AND 2nd BATTALION ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS.

              Name.                Nature of            Place.
                                   Casualty.
  ----------------------------+-----------------+--------------------
  Capt. Weldon                  Killed            Talana.
  Lieut. Genge                    "                  "
  Capt. Bacon                     "               Colenso.
  Lieut. Henry                    "                  "
  Capt. Hensley                   "               Venter's Spruit.
  Lt.-Col. Sitwell                "               Hart's Hill.
  Capt. Maitland (Gordon          "                    "
    Highlanders, attached)
  Capt. Macbean                   "               Nooitgedacht.
    "   Watson                    "               Western Transvaal.
  Lieut. Ely                    Died of disease
    "    Dennis                   "        "
  Capt. Dibley                  Wounded           Talana.
    "   Lowndes                   "                  "
  Lieut. Perreau                  "                  "
  Maj. Gordon                     "               Colenso.
  Capt. Shewan                    "                  "
  Lieut. Macleod                  "                  "
  Maj. English                    "               Venter's Spruit
                                                    and Zuikerbosch.
  Capt. Hill                      "               Pieter's Hill.
  Lieut. Brodhurst Hill           "                    "
    "    Lane                     "               Hart's Hill.
    "    Dennis                   "                    "
    "    Bradford.                "               Pieter's Hill.
    "    Haskard                  "                    "
  Capt. Carington Smith           "               Sanna's Post and
                                                    Heidelberg.
  Lt.-Col. Mills                  "               Alleman's Nek.
  Lieut. Seppings                 "                    "
    "    Taylor                   "               Parys.
  Capt. Kinsman                   "               Near Mafeking.
    "   Chapman                   "               Itala.
  Lieut. Lefroy                   "                 "

XII.

HONOURS AND REWARDS OF OFFICERS OF THE 2ND ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS.

  C.B.

  Colonel C. D. Cooper.
     "    G. A. Mills.
     "    H. T. Hicks.

  D.S.O.

  Major S. G. Bird.
    "   W. H. O. Neill.
  Brevet-Major A. F. Pilson.
        "      W. J. Venour.
  Captain H. M. Shewan.
     "    G. N. Cory.
  Lieutenant E. A. A. De Salis.
       "     C. Garvice.
       "     Lefroy.
       "     W. F. Stirling.
       "     C. T. W. Grimshaw.
       "     A. Moore.
  Captain-Quartermaster R. Baker.

  BREVETS.

  Major F. P. English.
  Brevet-Major Godley.
  Captain McBean.
  Major A. W. Gordon.
  Captain E. Fetherstonhaugh.
     "    C. F. Romer.
     "    P. Maclear.
     "    H. Carington Smith.
  Major A. J. Chapman.
  Captain M. Lowndes.

  SPECIAL PROMOTIONS.

  Lieutenant Watson.
       "     E. A. A. De Salis.
       "     Lefroy.

XIII.

N.C.O.'S AND MEN OF 2ND ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS AWARDED DISTINGUISHED CONDUCT MEDAL.

   Reg.           Rank and Name.
   No.
  ------+--------------------------------
   3423   Sgt. M. Connor        }
   4290    "   Hunt             }
   1664    "   Sheridan         }  A.O.
          L.-Cpl. J. Kelly      } 163 of
          Pte. W. Holmes        }  1901
           "   P. Kelly         }
           "   E. Reid          }

          Sgt.-Mj. F. A. Whalen }
            5th R.D. Fus.       }
          Qmr.-Sgt. B. T. Bruen }
            5th R.D. Fus.       }
          Col.-Sgt. F. Gage     }
          Arm.-Sgt. T. H. Ford, }
            attached R.D. Fus.  }
          Sgt. W. Brown         }
   2892    "   J. Ryan          } A.O.
          Cpl. G. F. Frost, 1st } 15 of
             Batt. R.D. Fus.    } 1902
          L.-Cpl. Melia         }
          Pte. W. Connell       }
           "   W. Cullen        }
           "   A. Dowling       }
           "   M. Farrelly      }
           "   M. Kavanagh      }
           "   J. McCormack     }
   6642    "   C. N. Wallace    }

     43   Sgt.-Maj. J. Burke    }
   4637   Col.-Sgt. J. Ambrose  } A.O.
   5178       "     T. Crean    } 10 of
              "     M. Dunne    } 1903
          Cpl. P. Flannery      }
          Pte. P. Furlong       }

          Col.-Sgt. J. H.       }  A.O.
            Robinson, 1st Batt. } 172 of
            R.D. Fus.           }  1903

XIV.

AN ADDRESS PRESENTED BY THE NATAL UNITED IRISH ASSOCIATION.

The recent war, from which we welcome you back, marks another epoch of glory in the annals
of your distinguished battalion. It was our privilege on several occasions to be favoured at
social functions with the presence of officers and men of the DUBLIN FUSILIERS, and we felt
assured that the goodness of character and disposition which shed their radiance at those gatherings,
would shine with added lustre when in the face of danger and death. The popularity of your
regiment in Natal has only been exceeded by your distinguished gallantry in the field, and
as we followed your fortunes with feelings of deepest interest throughout the campaign, our
hearts thrilled with pride as we read of your gallant and heroic deeds. As you held the position
of honour at the march to Lucknow, so were you by the unanimous consent of the army awarded
a similar position in the entry to Ladysmith. The marvellous bravery displayed by your regiment
in the terrible fighting between Talana Hill and Tugela, forms a fitting sequel to your magnificent
record in the Indian Peninsula; and we as Irishmen can take a legitimate pride in the fact
that your muster-roll of glory is replete with familiar names which abound throughout the hills
and valleys of our far-off motherland. The name and fame of your regiment are world-wide; and
whether on frozen shores or in tropical climes, a light-heartedness, an uncomplaining endurance
of hardship and fatigue, and a ready adaptability to circumstances, afford abundant proof that
the best traditions of our race have been maintained by the DUBLIN FUSILIERS. In the vast territories
of Hindustan as in South Africa, you have shown the world the material of which an Irish soldier
is made. In the many engagements in which you have taken part, you have seen your enemies fall
thick around you, and seen, too, the crimson tide ebb from the heart of many a brave comrade,
whose last good-bye will remain for ever hallowed in your memory. You have returned triumphant
from this WAR, and though, alas! your numbers are fewer, your hearts are as stout and your
spirits as intrepid as ever. The land which claims you as her sons has in proportion to her
capabilities given more hostages to glory than any land beneath the sun, and well and nobly
have you upheld that national renown. You have won a name and éclat that will go down through
the ages, and with the hope that countless honours are yet in store to further illumine the
aureole of your prestige,

We are yours faithfully,

          CHAS. DONNELLY, President.
          JAMES P. DONNELLY, Hon. Treasurer.
          E. G. O'FLAHERTY, Hon. Secretary.

               Vice-Presidents:

          CRAWFORD LINDSAY.          THOS. KELLY.
          A. TRIMBLE.                J. F. E. BARNES.

               Committee:

          W. P. BOWEN.            C. W. KAY EVANS.
          W. J. LYONS.            R. S. W. BARNES.
          P. O'NEILL.             J. J. O'NEILL.
          E. BUTLER.              D. LANE.
                      N. F. BLACK.

XV.

ADDRESS FROM THE EUROPEAN INHABITANTS OF ADEN TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SERGEANTS' MESS, 2ND ROYAL
DUBLIN FUSILIERS.

To the Members of the Sergeants' Mess, 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers.

We, the undersigned, take advantage of this occasion, the eve of your departure from among
us, to place on record our very high esteem of the many sociable qualities displayed by you
since your battalion arrived in this station from South Africa in February, 1902.

Coming to Aden at a time when, after the brilliant services you had rendered to your Sovereign
and country in that uncertain field of the reputation of battalions as well as individuals--South
Africa, you had every reason to expect a far better station, a union with those near and dear
to you, and therefore every reason to be despondent. Instead, you threw yourselves into the
social life of this place in such a way that, before you were here many weeks, it was felt
that you, who had displayed the brilliant qualities so characteristic of your race on many
a hard-fought field in South Africa, were not lacking in those social qualities which tend
to enhance the popularity of His Majesty's forces, and make life a little less irksome in what
all must admit is not a pleasant spot.

Words fail to express what we all feel at being compelled to say good-bye to you, who have
been more than friends to so many of us, and in leaving Aden for return to your homeland, we
assure you that you carry with you the sincerest good wishes of all.

We shall always have a kindly feeling for you, and watch your future with great interest, and,
above all, we trust that you will find those from whom you have so long been separated in the
best of health, and that a long life and prosperity is before you.

          W. SMITH.            F. WISEMAN.
          C. ELLIOTT.          G. C. KENNEDY.
          W. WILLOWS.          R. THORLIN.
          E. B. BATCHELOR.     H. M. HANLEY.
          T. GRAVES.           E. B. OWEN.
          R. GRIFFITHS.        J. A. RUPERT JONES.
          A. HANDY.            J. R. DEANE.
          C. A. HOLLAND.       T. W. TWADDLE.
          C. J. HOCKING.       C. O. CRAVEN.
          J. M. GILTINAN.      J. MALLIA.
          F. C. BREWIN.        J. INGLOTT.
          F. WELLS.            G. NOEL.
          E. HALL.             J. F. FIELD.
          F. J. CLAY.          E. HESSLETON.
          G. R. CHAMARETT.     F. PENHA.
          P. C. KELLY.

XVI.

EXTRACT FROM BATTALION ORDERS ISSUED AT LADYSMITH, 27/10/99.

Para. 2. Strength.--The following officers and men, killed in action on the 20th inst. at the
Battle of Talana, are struck off the strength:--

  Capt. G. A. Weldon.

  No. 5103 Pte. P. Cahill, A Coy.
  "   5794  "   A. Merrill, E Coy.
  No. 5931 Pte. P. Crotty, E Coy.
  "   5918  "   P. Callaghan, H Coy.

Died of wounds received in action on 21st:--

  2nd Lieut. C. J. Genge.
  No. 1166 Col.-Sgt. F. Anderson, F Coy.

The Commanding Officer, while expressing his deep regret at these casualties, can fully testify
to the gallant manner in which each and all met their death, fighting for their Queen and upholding
the regimental honour.

XVII.

EXTRACT FROM BATTALION ORDERS, DATED FRERE, 18/12/99.

Para. 3. Strength.--The following officers, N.C.O.'s, and men, having been killed in action
at Colenso on the 15th inst., are struck off the strength of the battalion from that date:--

2ND BATTALION.

  Lieut. Robert Clive Bolton Henry.

  Reg. No.  Rank and Name.
  3441      Sgt. Hayes.
  6287      L.-Cpl. Gibson.
  6044       "   Cathcart.
  5123      Pte. Broderick.
  4488       "   Smith.
  5930       "   Sinnott.
  4462       "   Murphy.
  6134      Pte. Pearse.
  4560       "   Clifford.
  4838       "   Flood.
  5319      L.-Cpl. Coyne.
  6165      Pte. Bennett.

1ST BATTALION.

  Capt. Arthur Henry Bacon.

  Reg. No.  Rank and Name.
  3993      Col.-Sgt. Magee.
  3514      Sgt. Flynn.
  4869       "   Callan.
  5505      Pte. Cole.
  4301       "   Carroway.
  2943       "   O'Keefe.
  ?          "   O'Keefe.
  6472      Pte. Hayes.
  4192       "   Neill.
  3906       "   Walsh.
  4273       "   Nolan.
  3273       "   Costello.
  2504       "   Bissett.
  4193       "   Deevey.
  4095      Pte. Usher.
  3108       "   Connell.
  6002       "   Wisdom.
  4387       "   Toole.
  4242       "   Joyce.
  4672       "   Maddox.

The Commanding Officer, whilst deeply regretting, in common with all ranks, the severe loss
the regiment has sustained in the deaths of Captain Bacon and Lieutenant Henry and the N.C.O.'s
and men killed in action at Colenso on Friday last, desires to place on record his high appreciation
of the admirable spirit displayed by all ranks in unflinching pressing forward under a very
heavy fire to the attack of a practically impregnable position.

The names of the officers, N.C.O.'s, and men who fell will, he feels sure, be honoured in the
annals of the regiment, as having set a noble example of fearless courage and devotion to duty.

XVIII.

                              Colenso, 18/12/99 (5).

TELEGRAM RE DECEASE SERGEANT LINEHAN.

  'From Censor to G.O.C. L. of Comn.

'No. 5514 Cable from Lorenzo Marquez says that Sergeant Linehan, Fusiliers, died Racecourse,
Pretoria, of Dysentery, Friday last. Buried Catholic Cemetery.'

XIX.

                              Frere, 25/12/99 (3).

THE QUEEN'S MESSAGE, CHRISTMAS, 1899.

'I wish you and all my brave soldiers a happy Christmas. God protect and bless you all.--V.R.I.'

XX.

                              Spearman's Camp, 29/1/00 (6).

CAPTAIN C. A. HENSLEY DIED OF WOUNDS 21/1/00; STRUCK OFF STRENGTH; ORDER REGRETTING HIS LOSS.

The following Officer and N.C.O. having been killed in action and died of wounds on the dates
opposite their names, are struck off the strength of battalion accordingly:--

  Captain C. A. Hensley, died of wounds 21/1/00.
  No. 5668 Lance-Sergeant Taylor, D company, killed in action 20/1/00.

Whilst in common with all ranks deeply deploring the severe loss the battalion has sustained
by the death of Captain Hensley, the Commanding Officer desires to place on record his great
appreciation of the services rendered on all occasions by the late Captain Hensley, whose zeal,
devotion to duty, and gallantry in action was ever conspicuous since the present war began.
He feels sure he is but expressing the sentiments of all ranks in saying that his name will
always be handed down in honour to future generations of the regiment as one of those who have
nobly striven to shed additional lustre on the regiment's reputation.

XXI.

                              Spearman's Camp, 31/1/00 (3)

PRESENT OF TOBACCO FROM PAST OFFICERS, AND LETTER, &C.

The following letter, accompanying a present of 400 pounds of tobacco sent to the N.C.O.'s
and men of the battalion by some former officers of the battalion, has been received to-day:--

'From the old Officers of the 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers to the N.C.O.'s, rank and
file of the 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers, in token of their high appreciation of the conspicuous
gallantry displayed by the battalion during the campaign, now in progress in South Africa,
in which they have so brilliantly maintained the ancient traditions of the "Old Toughs."'

The following names are appended to the above:--Colonel R. Taylor, Colonel Colville Frankland,
Colonel C. E. Glasse, Colonel W. Holmes, Colonel F. Taylor, Colonel W. C. Riddell, Lieut.-Colonel
Reeves, Lieut.-Colonel F. W. Graham, Lieut.-Colonel A. A. Godwin, Lieut.-Colonel R. H. Mansel,
Lieut.-Colonel M. J. Hickley, Lieut.-Colonel J. R. Povah, Major the Hon. H. M. Hobart Hampden,
Major R. L. Shaw, Major S. J. Wynne, Major E. Pearse, Captain A. M. Horrocks, Captain R. D.
Vincent, Captain H. J. Guyon, Lieutenant W. S. Burmester.

REPLY.

'Colonel Cooper, the Officers, N.C.O.'s and men of the 2nd Battalion the Royal Dublin Fusiliers
desire to return their very heartfelt thanks to Colonel Frankland and the old Officers of the
battalion for their kind thoughtfulness in providing the men with tobacco.

'They beg to assure the old Officers that their gift is most thoroughly appreciated, as also
the expression of goodwill and admiration of the battalion's services in the present campaign
which accompanies it.

'To know that the old Officers still continue to follow with interest and admiration the fortunes
and doings of the "Old Toughs" will ever be an incentive to all ranks to do all that lies in
their power to maintain the reputation which the old Officers helped to win for the corps in
days gone by.'

XXII.

                              Spearman's Camp, 1/2/00 (5).

LANCE-SERGEANT MERRY PROMOTED FOR GALLANTRY.

The Commanding Officer has been pleased to specially promote the undermentioned N.C.O. to the
rank of Sergeant from January 12th for meritorious service in the field:--

  No. 4441 Lance-Sergeant J. Merry, H company.

XXIII.

                              Ladysmith, 5/3/00 (2).

LOSSES IN ACTION, INCLUDING COLONEL SITWELL AND CAPTAIN MAITLAND, NOTED AND DEPLORED.

The following Officers, N.C.O.'s and men having been killed in action on the dates opposite
their names, are struck off the strength of the battalion, or cease to be attached to it as
the case may be, from those dates accordingly:--

  Major and Brevet-Lieut.-Colonel C. H. G. Sitwell, D.S.O., 24/2/00.
  Captain S. C. Maitland, 2nd Gordon Highlanders (attached), 24/2/00.

  No. 4871  Pte. J. White.
   "  4262  Cpl. J. Seymour.
   "  5359  Pte. Galbraith.
   "  2872   "   Wade.
   "  4012   "   J. Armstrong.
   "  2037   "   Whelan.
   "  3303   "   Timmins.
  No. 4743  Pte. T. Reid (attached). 24.2.00
   "  5073   "   Kinsella.
   "  6296   "   Allen.
   "  5618   "   T. Purcell.
   "  1717   "   Sherwin.
   "  2327   "   Grimes.
   "  1749  Sgt. T. Brennan.

Died of wounds 2/3/00:--

  No. 5745 Pte. Brady.

Whilst in common with the rest of the battalion deeply deploring the loss of so many brave
Officers, N.C.O.'s and men, and sympathising with those who have been wounded, the Commanding
Officer wishes to place on record his high appreciation of the services rendered to the battalion
on all occasions by the late Major and Brevet-Lieut.-Colonel Sitwell, whose distinguished career
hitherto tended to the honour and reputation of the regiment. All ranks of the battalion join
with him, he is sure, in lamenting the loss of such a distinguished soldier and comrade, and
a brilliant career thus suddenly though gloriously cut short.

To the late Captain Maitland's sterling qualities as an officer and comrade he would also wish
to bear testimony. His services to the battalion during a very trying and critical time were
most valuable. On behalf of the battalion he offers the late Captain Maitland's relatives and
brother-officers his deepest sympathy.

XXIV.

                              5/3/00 (4).

THE QUEEN'S MESSAGE RE RELIEF OF LADYSMITH.

The following telegram, received by the Commander-in-Chief on the relief of Ladysmith from
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, is published for information of all ranks:--

'Thank God for news you have telegraphed to me. Congratulate you with all my heart.--V.R.I.'

XXV.

                              Ladysmith, 5/3/00 (3).

THE QUEEN'S MESSAGE--'MY BRAVE IRISH.'

The Commanding Officer has much pleasure in publishing for the information of all ranks, the
following message from Her Majesty the Queen, to the 5th Brigade, which was recently received
by the G.O.C. in Chief in Natal.

'To General Buller, Natal.

'I have heard with the deepest concern of the heavy losses sustained by my brave Irish soldiers.
I desire to express my admiration of the splendid fighting qualities which they have exhibited
throughout these trying operations.--V.R.I.'

THE FOLLOWING REPLY WAS SENT BY SIR REDVERS BULLER:--

'Sir Redvers Buller has, on the part of the Irish Brigade, to thank the Queen for her gracious
telegram of sympathy and encouragement.'

XXVI.

                              5/3/00 (5).

LETTER TO GORDON HIGHLANDERS, RE CAPTAIN MAITLAND.

The Commanding Officer has, on behalf of the battalion, forwarded the following letter to the
Officer Commanding the 2nd Gordon Highlanders.

                              'Ladysmith, 5/3/00.

'DEAR MAJOR SCOTT,--

'On behalf of myself and the officers of the battalion, I write to offer you all our very deepest
sympathy in the severe loss your battalion has sustained by the death of Captain Maitland.

'I find it hard to adequately express to you how very deeply the whole of my battalion laments
his loss, and I know I am only expressing the sentiments of all ranks when I assure you that
his memory will ever be cherished in the battalion.

'A better or more conscientious officer I have never had under my command. We would all esteem
it a very great favour if you could send us a photograph of our late dear comrade, and might
I also so far trespass on your kindness, as to ask for one for his company (G) as well, which
I need hardly say will be highly prized by them.

  'Yours, &c.
                                   (Signed) C. D. COOPER.'

XXVII.

                                   Ladysmith, 14/3/00 (3).

NATAL ARMY ORDERS. THE WEARING OF SHAMROCK ON ST. PATRICK'S DAY.

The following extracts from Natal Army Orders are published for information:--

'(1) The General Commanding has to communicate to the troops the following telegram he has
received from the C. in C. viz.

'Her Majesty the Queen is pleased to order that in future on St. Patrick's Day all ranks in
Her Majesty's Irish regiments shall wear as a distinction a sprig of shamrock in their head-dress
to commemorate the gallantry of Her Irish soldiers during the recent battles in South Africa.

                                   'WOLSELEY.'

XXVIII.

                              Ladysmith, 18/3/00.

WINSTON CHURCHILL'S TELEGRAM TO REGIMENT.

The following telegrams received yesterday, and replies thereto, are published for information:--

  'To Colonel, Dublin Fusiliers, Ladysmith.

'My earnest congratulations on the honour the Dublin Fusiliers more than any other regiment
have won for the land of their birth. We are all wearing the shamrock here.

  '(Signed)
                                   WINSTON CHURCHILL.'

REPLY.

'To Winston Churchill, Lord Dundonald's Brigade.

'Many thanks for your kind message received yesterday, all ranks appreciate your kind expressions.

  '(Signed)
                                   COLONEL, DUBLIN FUSILIERS.'

XXIX.

                              18/3/00 (1).

COLENSO RAILWAYMEN'S TELEGRAM TO REGIMENT.

'To Brigadier-General Cooper, Commanding Irish Brigade, Ladysmith.

'On St. Patrick's Day the railway men of Colenso respectfully wish to convey to the officers
and men of Her Majesty's Dublin Fusiliers their best wishes for a speedy termination of the
present war, in which the Dublins have borne so glorious a part. The whole of South Africa
rings with praise of the gallant Irish Brigade. We mourn with you the loss of so many gallant
men of your command. They have fallen in their defence of a united South Africa, over which,
please God, Her Most Gracious Majesty's flag will fly from Cape Town to the Zambesi.

  '(Signed)
                                   INSPECTOR CAMPBELL.'

REPLY.

                              18/3/00 (1).

'To Inspector Campbell, Colenso.

'On behalf of the officers and men under my command, please accept our heartfelt thanks for
your kind message and expressions of sympathy.

  (Signed)
                                   COLONEL COOPER.'

XXX.

                              5th Brigade Orders, 18/3/00 (1).

CAPE TOWN IRISHMEN SEND TELEGRAM.

The following telegram has been received by General Sir Redvers Buller:--

'Cape Town Irishmen wish the gallant Irish officers and men under your command many returns
of St. Patrick's Day, and would express their heartfelt admiration for the way in which they
have maintained unsullied the splendid military traditions of Ireland and the Empire under
your gallant leadership.'

XXXI.

                              Ladysmith, 20/3/00 (2).

THE QUEEN SENDS TELEGRAM OF THANKS.

The following reply to telegram sent by Colonel Cooper on behalf of the battalion to Her Majesty
the Queen on Shamrock Day was received yesterday:--

'The Queen thanks her Dublin Fusiliers for loyal message. Windsor Castle, 18th.'

XXXII.

                              Elandslaagte, 3/4/00 (7).

COLONEL SAUNDERSON'S LETTER.

The following letter was received to-day by the Commanding Officer from Colonel Saunderson, M.P.:--

                           'Castle Saunderson, Belturbet, 1/3/00.

'DEAR SIR,

'I cannot help writing to you to express on my part, and on the part of every loyal Irishman,
the pride and sympathy we take in the heroic deeds of the Dublin Fusiliers in South Africa.
Your gallant regiment has shed a lustre on the army to which they belong and on the country
from which they come.

'No words of mine can express the admiration we feel for their loyalty, their courage, and
their indomitable determination. I hope they realise how our hearts are with them.'

A reply thanking Colonel Saunderson has been sent by the Commanding Officer.

XXXIII.

                              Fourteen Streams, 12/5 (3).

DEATH OF SECOND LIEUTENANT J. T. DENNIS AT ALIWAL NORTH, MAY 2ND. ENTERIC.

The Commanding Officer deeply regrets to announce the death of Second Lieutenant J. T. Dennis,
which occurred at Aliwal North on May 2nd of enteric.

XXXIV.

                              17/5/00 (4).

GENERAL HART CONGRATULATES 1ST BORDERS AND 2ND ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS ON THEIR MARCHING.

Major-General Hart congratulates the 1st Border Regiment and 2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers upon
the recent instance of their marching powers. For military reasons it was needful after the
march forward yesterday to march back at once to Fourteen Streams. As far as he can arrive
at a tolerably accurate estimate of the ground gone over, these two battalions in the course
of yesterday and last night marched twenty-six miles in the space of nineteen hours. And the
strong point is that they arrived at the end of it in compact formation, still going a good
pace, and without any straggling or falling out. The Major-General accordingly puts this event
on record.

XXXV.

                              Heidelberg, 2/7/00 (5).

COLONEL COOPER'S FAREWELL ORDER.

The following farewell order by Major-General C. D. Cooper is published for information. The
Commanding Officer regrets that its publication has been unavoidably postponed till now:--

'In bidding farewell to the battalion in which I have served for so many years, I wish to thank
all ranks from the bottom of my heart for the kind and efficient support accorded to me during
the period of my command--close on five years. It was always my ambition to command the battalion,
and on active service, and I feel very thankful that my wish was granted. We have fought together
and worked hard for our noble Queen and country, and all ranks have shown that good spirit
and bravery that has made the battalion what it is. You may rest assured that I will always
take the greatest interest in the doings of the battalion, and I shall never forget the happy
days spent amongst you. I much regret that I was unable to wish you Godspeed in person, but
I sincerely hope I shall soon see you all again. My very sincere sympathy and regret at our
very heavy losses. May God bless you all.

  '(Signed)
                                     C. D. COOPER, Major-General
  Commanding 4th Brigade.'

XXXVI.

                              Heidelberg, 24/7/00 (6).

GENERAL BULLER'S TELEGRAM RE ZUIKERBOSCH.

The following telegram received by the G.O.C. is published for information:--

'from Sir Redvers Buller.

'So glad to hear of your fight. Good old Dublins, and tell them so from me, and well done you.'

XXXVII.

                              Krugersdorp, 4/10/00 (8).

A PATROL UNDER LIEUTENANT GARVICE, &c.

A patrol under Lieutenant Garvice, Commanding Virginia Railway Station, came in contact with
some Boers on the 1st. We had one man wounded, Boers three, whom they had to leave on the ground.
The casualties in the 2nd Coldstream Guards near Pan were caused by the enemy's fire, the majority
of the wounds were caused by explosive bullets: the men behaved very well, and everybody kept
their heads, otherwise the loss would have been greater, as the Boers opened fire at sixty
yards range.

XXXVIII.

                              Krugersdorp, 4/10/00 (8).

COLONEL ROCHFORD'S ATTACK.

Colonel Rochford attacked a small Boer laager between Pretoria and Johannesburg before dawn
yesterday, with Royal Dublin Fusiliers and M.I. Fusiliers. He rushed the position with the
bayonet. Nine prisoners were captured, most of them men of importance, who have been troubling
the district for some time. A small party of Boers made their way to Dewetsdorp and Wepener.
General Kelly Kenny has sent troops to occupy both these places.

XXXIX.

                              Krugersdorp, 16/12/00 (8).

COMMANDING OFFICER'S REMARKS ON TREK.

The Commanding Officer is very well pleased with the way the men marched in this trip, doing
102 miles in six days, an average of seventeen miles a day; also with their excellent conduct
and the cheerful way in which all difficulties were met. The results of the trip were over
1000 head of sheep and cattle and seven waggons captured, thirty barns of forage burnt, and
innumerable stocks of oat hay, some of which concealed ammunition.

XL.

LETTER FROM GENERAL HART.

Lieut.-Colonel Hicks, Commanding 2nd Battalion Royal Dublin Fusiliers.

The manner in which the encampment of your battalion is arranged deserves my special commendation.
On very bad camping-ground, beset with rocks and bush, and afflicted with dust between, I find
your companies excellently established by ingenious and industrious adaptation to circumstances.
The regularity and tidiness are conspicuous, and have been noted by me with great satisfaction.
I need not say how much neatness of arrangements must conduce to quickness and good quality
of soldier work.

  (Signed)
                                   A. FITZROY HART,
                         Major-General Commanding Irish Brigade.

Fourteen Streams, May 20th 1900.

XLI.

                              Krugersdorp, 25/1/01 (4).

GENERAL HART'S FAREWELL.

The following Farewell Order by Major-General A. Fitzroy Hart, C.B., is published for information:--

'In leaving to take another command, I wish you, my brother soldiers of my force, farewell.

'It is an article of my faith, that you would go anywhere and do anything required in battle.

'I leave you with deep regret, and of course I must feel this particularly for the last of
my old Irish brigade with which I began the war.

'In departing, I give you this scrap of advice: Be individually, whenever opportunity offers
personally, not only kind but generous to the inhabitants of this country which we have taken
from them, and among whom so many of our countrymen and countrywomen will have to dwell. It
will not diminish your soldierly strength, and it will hasten a welcome for the pleasant government
of peace.'

XLII.

                              Fort Kilmarnock, 25/9/01 (6).

LETTER FROM CAPTAIN ANLEY.

The following extracts from a letter received from Brevet-Major Anley, Commanding 3rd M.I.,
are published for information:--

'The behaviour of your M.I. company continues to be very good. Lieutenant Garvice and thirty
men of the company did excellent service the other day, when acting as rearguard to a convoy
which was leaving Carolina. It was reported that it was due to the steadiness of the men of
the Royal Dublin Fusiliers, and the able manner they were handled by Lieutenant Garvice, that
the convoy got in without loss.

'The Inspector-General M.I. wrote and asked me to congratulate Lieutenant Garvice on the behaviour
of his men. No. 4701, Private Kelly, R.D.F., was recommended for gallantry on this occasion.

  '(Signed)
                                   F. GORE ANLEY,

Brevet-Major Commanding 3rd Battalion M.I.'

XLIII.

CONSPICUOUS GALLANTRY AT GASKRAAL ON AUGUST 28TH, &C.

The following extract from Army Order No. 418, dated Pretoria, September 28th, 1901, is published
for information:--

'No. 1. The following have been brought to notice of the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief,
for gallantry and good service:

     2nd Royal Dublin Fusiliers: No. 6491, Lce.-Cpl. T. O'Connor
     (killed).

For great and conspicuous gallantry when very closely engaged with enemy at Gaskraal on 28th
Aug. 1901.'

XLIV.

LORD KITCHENER'S WIRE.

'I know I am speaking for the whole army in South Africa, when I wish the Dublin Fusiliers
Godspeed, and congratulate them on the fine record they have established during their services
in the country.'

ANSWER.

'I beg to thank your Lordship in the name of the regiment for your very kind and congratulatory
telegram, which is much appreciated by all ranks.'

XLV.

ROLL OF OFFICERS, 2ND ROYAL DUBLIN FUSILIERS, WHO EMBARKED AT DURBAN ON S.S. 'SICILIA,' ON
THE 29/1/02, EN ROUTE FOR ADEN.

  Rank and Name.

  Col. H. T. Hicks, C.B.
  Maj. S. G. Bird, D.S.O.
  Capt. and Bt.-Maj. E. Fetherstonhaugh.
  Capt. and Bt.-Maj. M. Lowndes.
  Capt. H. W. Higginson.
   "    G. N. Cory, D.S.O.
  Lieut. C. Garvice, D.S.O.
   "     L. F. Renny.
   "     J. McD. Haskard.
   "     A. H. D. Britton.
  Lieut. A. de B. W. W. Bradford.
   "     S. G. De C. Wheeler.
  2nd Lieut. A. W. Newton.
   "         E. St. G. Smith
   "         R. F. B. Knox.
   "         J. P. Tredennick.
   "         B. Maclear.
   "         J. P. B. Robinson.
   "         E. F. E. Seymour.
   "         H. St. G. M. S. Scott.
  Lieut. J. Burke (Quartermaster).

Printed by Strangeways & Sons, Tower Street,

Cambridge Circus, London, W.C.