THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX. NO. 531.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1832. [PRICE 2d

       *       *       *       *       *

PONTEFRACT CASTLE.

Pontrefact, a place of considerable note in English history, is situated about two miles south-west
from Ferrybridge, nine miles nearly east from Wakefield, and fifteen miles north-west from
Doncaster, in Yorkshire. The origin of the town is unknown; and the etymology of its name has
been a matter of dispute, in which figures a monkish legend ascribing the name of Ponsfractus,
or Pontefract, to the breaking of a bridge, and the fall of many persons into the river Aire,
who were miraculously saved by St. William, Archbishop of York. The river Ouse and the city
of York, however, put in a stronger claim as the scene of this miracle, and unfortunately for
Pontefract, the town is so named in charters of fifty-three years' date before the miracle
is pretended to have been performed. Still the etymology is referable to the breaking down
of "some bridge," (pons, bridge; fractus, broken,) but this unravelment is not antiquarian.
Camden says, that in the Saxon times, the name of this town was Kirkby, which was changed by
the Normans to Pontefract, because of a broken bridge that was there. But as there is no river
within two miles of the place, this bridge appears to have been built over the Wash, which
lies about a quarter of a mile to the east of the Castle. Other researches prove Pontefract
to have been a secondary and subordinate Roman station.

The history of the Castle is, of course, involved in that of the manor. The town is stated
to have been a burgh in the time of Edward the Confessor; but how long it had enjoyed this
privilege is uncertain.[1] After the Conquest, this manor, with 150 others, or the greatest
part of so many in Yorkshire, besides ten in Nottinghamshire, and four in Lincolnshire, were
given by William to Hildebert, or Ilbert de Lacy, one of his Norman followers, who built the
Castle. The work occupied twelve years, and it was finished in 1080. The labour and expense
of its erection was so great, that no person unless in the possession of a princely fortune,
could have completed a work of such magnitude. Hildebert was succeeded by his son Robert, commonly
called Robert de Pontefract, from his being born at that town. Robert enjoyed his vast possessions
in peace during the reign of William Rufus; but after the accession of Henry I. he with more
ambition than prudence, joined with Robert, Duke of Normandy, the King's brother, who claimed
the crown of England. In consequence of this transaction, Robert de Lacy was banished the realm,
and the castle and honour of Pontefract were given by the King to Henry Traverse, and afterwards
to Henry De-laval.[2] Robert de Lacy was, however, restored after a few years exile, and the
property continued in the Lacy family till the year 1193, when another Robert de Lacy dying
without issue, the estate and honour of Pontefract devolved on his uterine sister Aubrey de
Lisours, who carried these estates of the Lacys by marriage to Richard Fitz-Eustace, constable
of Chester. Thence they descended to John Fitz-Eustace, who accompanied Richard I. in his crusade,
and is said to have died at Tyre in Palestine. Roger, his eldest son, also in the crusade,
succeeded to his honour and estates. He was present with Richard at the memorable siege of
Acre. On his return to England he was the first of his family that took the name of Lacy, in
which Pontefract Castle continued till 1310, when Henry de Lacy, through default of male issue,
left his possessions to his daughter and heiress, Alice, who was married to Thomas, Earl of
Lancaster; and, in case of a failure of issue from that marriage, he entailed them on the King
and his heirs.

The Earl of Lancaster, it will be remembered, became embroiled with Edward II. and his minion
Gaveston, who partly through the interference of Lancaster, was beheaded at Warwick after a
siege in Scarborough Custle. The King swore vengeance for the death of his favourite, which
led this weak sovereign into a long series of dissentions with the barons, at the head of whom,
was the Earl of Lancaster. Both parties now flew to arms, but Lancaster soon found himself
ill supported by his compeers, and marching northward for reinforcements from the celebrated
Bruce, King of Scotland, the King in the meantime, sent the Earl of Surrey and Kent to besiege
the castle of Pontefract, which surrendered at the first summons. Lancaster was next closely
pursued by the king with great superiority of numbers. "The earl, endeavouring to rally his
troops, was taken prisoner, with ninety-five barons and knights, and carried to the castle
of Pontefract, where he was imprisoned in a tower which Leland says he had newly made towards
the abbey," This tower was square: its wall of great strength, being 10-1/2 feet thick; nor
was there any other entrance into the interior than by a hole or trap-door in the floor of
the turret: so that the prisoner must have been let down into this abode of darkness, from
whence there could be no possible mode of escape; the room was twenty-five feet square. A few
days after, the King being at Pontefract ordered him to be arraigned in the hall of the castle,
before a small number of peers, among whom were the Spencers, his mortal enemies. The earl
was condemned to be hanged, drawn, and quartered; but the punishment was changed to decapitation.
After sentence was passed, he said, "Shall I die without answer?" He was not, however, permitted
to speak; but a certain Gascoign took him away, and having put an old hood over his head, set
him on a lean mare without a bridle. Being attended by a Dominican friar as his confessor,
he was carried out of the town amidst the insults of the people; and there beheaded. Thus fell
Thomas, Earl of Lancaster, the first Prince of the Blood, being uncle to Edward II. who condemned
him to death. Several of his adherents were hanged at Pontefract.

The next royal blood that stained Pontefract castle was that of King Richard II. who was here
murdered or starved to death; though there is a tradition that it was merely given out that
Richard had starved himself to death, and that he escaped from Pontefract to Mull, whence he
shortly proceeded to the mainland of Scotland, where, for nineteen years, he was entertained
in an honourable but secret captivity.[3] The matter remains in tragic darkness.[4] In the
succeeding reign of Henry IV. Richard Scroope, archbishop of York, being taken prisoner, was
in Pontefract castle, condemned to death. Next in the calendar of atrocities committed within
these drear walls, were the murders of Anthony Woodville, Earl Rivers; Richard, Lord Grey;
Sir Thomas Vaughan; and Sir Richard Hawse, in 1483; by Richard III., whom Shakspeare makes
to whine forth:

  O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison!
  Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
  Within the guilty closure of thy walls,
  Richard II. here was hack'd to death;
  And for more slander to thy dismal seat,
  We give to thee our guiltless blood to drink.

We may now pass over matters of minor importance in the history of Pontefract to the time of
Charles I. In the King's contest with his Parliament, this was the last fortress that held
out for the unfortunate monarch. At Christmas 1644, Sir Thomas Fairfax laid siege to the castle,
and on Jan. 19, following, after an incessant cannonade of three days, a breach was made: the
brave garrison would not surrender; the besiegers mined, but the besieged counter-mined, and
the work of slaughter went on till the garrison were greatly reduced. At length the Parliamentarians
were attacked and repulsed by a reinforcement of Royalists from Oxford, and thus ended the
first siege of Pontefract. In March, 1645, the enemy again took possession of the town, and
after three months cannonade, the garrison being reduced almost to a state of famine, surrendered
the castle by an honourable capitulation on June 20. Sir Thomas Fairfax was appointed governor,
and he thinking the royal party to be subdued, appointed a colonel as his substitute, with
a garrison of 100 men. The royalists next by stratagem recovered Pontefract, of which Sir John
Digby was appointed governor.

The third and final siege of this fine castle commenced in October, 1648. General Rainsborough
was appointed to the command of the army, but he being previously intercepted at Doncaster,
Oliver Cromwell undertook to conduct the siege. After having remained a month before the fortress,
without making any impression on its massy walls, Cromwell joined the grand army under Fairfax,
and General Lambert being appointed commander in chief of the forces before the castle, arrived
at Pontefract on the 4th of December.

The ENGRAVING represents the castle precisely at this period. It is copied from a large print
taken from a drawing found in the possession of a descendant of the Fairfax family of Denton;
in one angle is the following memorandum: "Governor Morris commanded in the Castle. General
Lambert commanded the Siege, being appointed thereto on the death of General Rainsborough,
who was intercepted and killed at Doncaster, by a party from the Castle, as he was going to
take command."

General Lambert raised new works, and vigorously pushed the siege; but the besieged held out.
On January 30, 1649, the King was beheaded; and the news no sooner reached Pontefract, than
the royalist garrison proclaimed his son Charles II. and made a vigorous and destructive sally
against their enemies. The Parliamentarians, however, prevailed, and on March 25, 1649, the
garrison being reduced from 500 or 600 to 100 men, surrendered by capitulation. Six of the
principal Royalists were excepted from mercy: two escaped, but were retaken and executed at
York; the third was killed in a sortie; and the three others concealing themselves among the
ruins of the castle, escaped after the surrender; and two of the last lived to see the Restoration.

This third siege was the most destructive to the castle: the tremendous artillery had shattered
its massive walls; and its demolition was completed by order of Parliament. Within two months
after its reduction, the buildings were unroofed, and all the materials sold. Thus was this
princely fortress reduced to a heap of ruins.

The Castle of Pontefract was built on an elevated rock, commanding extensive and picturesque
views. The north-west prospect takes in the beautiful vale along which flows the Aire, skirted
by woods and plantations. It is bounded only by the hills of Craven. The north and east prospect
is more extensive, but the scenery is not equally striking and impressive. The towers of York
Minster are distinctly seen, and the prospect is only bounded by the limits of vision. To the
east--while the eye follows the course of the Aire towards the Humber, the fertility of the
country, the spires of churches, and two considerable hills, Brayton Barf, and Hambleton Haugh,
which rise in the midst of a plain, and one of which is covered with wood, increase the beauty
of the scene. The south-east view includes part of the counties of Lincoln and Nottingham.
To the south and south-west, the towering hills of Derbyshire, stretching towards Lancashire,
form the horizon, while the foreground is a picturesque country variegated with handsome residences.

The Castle, by its situation, as well as by its structure, was rendered almost impregnable.
It was not commanded by any contiguous hills, and it could only be taken by blockade.

By referring to the Engraving, the reader will better understand this defence. The outworks
are there distinctly shown with the respective posts and guards: indeed, these lines exhibit
a fine specimen of fortification. The quadrangular enclosure on the crest of the hill, in the
lower part of the Engraving, represents Lamberts' Fort Royal. To the right is the approach
to the castle by the south gate to the barbican, crossed by a wall, with the middle gate, with
the east gate at the extremity of the line. We next approach, the ballium, or castle yard through
the Porter's Lodge of two towers with a portcullis. The wall of the castle-yard, it will be
seen, has a parapet, and is flanked with towers, and the chapel to the right of the Lodge.
East and West of the yard is seen the semi-circular moat or ditch; and on an eminence near
the western extremity of the ballium, stands the keep or round tower, the walls of which are
said to have been twenty-one feet thick. The state rooms are on the second story. The dungeons
of the towers are terrific even in description: one was about 15 feet deep, and scarcely six
feet square, without any admission of light. The whole area occupied by the Pontrefact fortress
seems to have been about 7 acres, now converted into garden ground.

The church seen within the work is that of All Saints, or Allhallows, a Gothic structure, probably
of the time of Henry III., and almost destroyed in the sieges of the castle.

Pontefract must be numbered in our recollections of childhood; since here were grown whole
fields of liquorice root, from the extract of which are made. Pontefract Cakes, impressed with
the arms--three lions passant gardant, surmounted with a helmet, full-forward, open faced,
and garde-visure. We have likewise seen them impressed with the celebrated fortress, and the
motto "Post mortem patris pro filio,"--after the death of the father--for the son--denoting
the loyalty of the Pontefract Royalists in proclaiming Charles II. at the death of his father.

    [1] The present Borough of Pontefract was incorporated by Richard
        III., and has sent Members to Parliament since the reign of
        James I.

    [2] Dugdale Bar. vol. i p. 99.

    [3] This tradition is moulded into a pleasing tale entitled "the White
        Rose in Mull," in the Scottish Annual, the Chameleon, noticed by
        us a few weeks since.

    [4] Shakspeare lays Scene v. of Act. v. of Richard II. in a dungeon of
        Pomfret Castle.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LACONICS," GUESSES AT TRUTH, &c.

(For the Mirror.)

It is the interest of an indolent man to be honest: for it requires considerable trouble and
finesse, to deceive others successfully.

Money was a wise contrivance to place fools somewhat on a level with men of sense.

It will be observed, that people have generally the identical faults and vices they accuse
others of; we may instance cowardice.

Wherever a proposition is self-evident, it is but weakening its strength to bring forward arguments
in its support.

It is a melancholy reflection that a glass of wine will do more towards raising the spirits,
than the finest composition ever penned.

It is a great mistake in physiognomists to take outward signs as evidences of feeling: the
seat of real sensation is within.

Wherever art has travelled out of her proper sphere to ape nature, she has proved herself but
a miserable mimic, even in her most approved efforts.

We must not allow ourselves to dwell too seriously on life; for otherwise we shall be tempted
to forego all our plans, to indulge in no future wishes, and, in short, to live on in torpid
apathy.

Books are at last the best companions: they instruct us in silence without any display of superiority,
and they attend the pace of each man's capacity, without reproaching him for his want of comprehension.

A disgust of life frequently proceeds from sheer vanity, or a wish to be supposed incapable
of deriving gratification from the ordinary routine of happiness.

It sometimes happens that with men as well as animals, that evidences of spirit are only the
effect of excited fear.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAW INSTITUTION.[1]

(At the time of our last publication we were not aware that any architectural details of the
building in Chancery-lane had appeared. We now find that the Legal Observer contained such
description in March last, "collected," says the editor, "with some pains and trouble." A correspondent
dropped the Observer leaf into our letter-box in the course of last week; but, unfortunately,
the communication did not reach us in time for insertion with our Engraving. Good news, we
know, usually comes upon crutches, but we hope our thanks will reach this correspondent at
a better pace.)

The style of architecture of the principal front in Chancery-lane is purely Grecian. The details
and proportions appear to have been founded upon the best examples of the Ionic order in Athens
and Asia Minor,[2] but they are not servilely copied from any of them.

Mr. Vulliamy, the architect for the Institution, has thrown into this front the true spirit
of the originals; and the effect which the harmonious proportions of the building produce on
the spectator, when viewing it from Chancery-lane, must have been the result of much observation
and experience in ancient and classic models.

This front, extending nearly sixty feet in width, is of Portland stone. It consists of four
columns and two antae, of the Grecian Ionic order, supporting an entablature and pediment,
and forming together one grand portico. To give the requisite elevation, the columns and antae
are raised upon pedestals; these, as well as the basement story and podium of the inner wall
of the portico, are of Aberdeen granite; the columns and the rest of the front are formed of
large blocks of Portland stone. In the front wall, within the portico, there are two ranges
of windows above the basement.

The front in Bell-yard extends nearly eighty feet, and will be finished with Roman cement,
in imitation of stone. It will have a portico of two columns, and two antae of Portland stone,
of the height of the ground story, which is very lofty, and the width of the entire compartment
of the front. From the interior requiring to be divided into several rooms, this front must
have many windows. The elevation is formed more upon the models of modern domestic architecture
than of ancient public buildings, and resembles, in its general appearance, one of the palazzi
in the Strada Balbi at Genoa, in the Corso at Rome, or in the Toledo at Naples. In its details,
however, the extravagancies of the middle ages, and the often elegant frivolities of the cinque
cento period, have been avoided, and the breadth and simplicity of Greek models have still
been followed.

The ground plan of the building, by its general arrangement, divides itself into three parts,
which may be distinguished under the heads of the Library, the Hall, and the Club Room. The
first of these (that towards Chancery-lane) consists, on the ground floor, of a first and second
vestibule, and staircase to the Library, the Secretary's Room, and Registry Office; and above
these on the first floor, the Library, occupying the height of two stories.

The Library is a large and lofty room, fifty-five feet by thirty-one and a half, and twenty-three
and a half high, divided by a screen of columns and pilasters of scagliola, into two unequal
parts, the first forming a sort of ante-library to the other; both are surrounded by bookcases
of oak, and a gallery runs round the whole, above which is another range of bookcases.

The principal light is obtained from a large lantern-light in the ceiling; but there is a range
of windows (double sashed, and glazed with plate glass) towards Chancery-lane, which also admit
light into the lower part.

All the floors in the building are made fire-proof, generally by being arched with brick; but
that of the Library is rendered secure from fire by the ceilings of the vestibules underneath
being formed of real stone, supported on iron girders and bearers, and divided into panels
and compartments after the manner of the roofs of the peristyles of the ancient temples.

There are three entrances from Chancery-lane: that in the centre is exclusively for members,
and leads to all parts of the building; that on the right for persons going to the Registry
Office; and also for persons having to speak to members; that on the left leads down to the
Office for the deposit of deeds, and to the strong rooms.

The second division consists of the Hall and its appurtenances. It is above thirty feet high,
and fifty-seven feet and a half long; and on each side it has wings or recesses, behind insulated
columns of scagliola, in imitation of Egyptian granite. Within these, and at the back of the
columns, are galleries; the staircases to which are concealed in the angles. There are three
fireplaces in the Hall; one in the centre, opposite the principal entrance, and one in the
centre of each of the recesses. The Hall is lighted by a lantern-light forty feet long and
twenty-four feet wide.

The third division is next Bell-yard: it is subdivided into two parts. In the first of these
are three entrances from Bell-yard. That in the centre is exclusively for the members; that
to the left leads to the staircase to the Secretary's apartments; and the other, to the right
of the centre, is for strangers to enter who have business to transact in any of the rooms
appropriated to public business. On the ground floor of this part of the third division is
a large Committee Room, and an ante or waiting room adjoining, and the great staircase to the
rooms above. On the first floor are the rooms for meetings on matters of business connected
with the law; and above these are the Secretary's apartments.

The second part of the third division contains, on the ground floor, the Club Room, which occupies
all the ground floor: it will be divided by columns and pilasters of scagliola, and decorated
with a paneled ceiling and appropriate ornaments. Its dimensions are fifty feet by twenty-seven,
and eighteen feet high. On the first floor are rooms of different dimensions for dinner parties;
and over these, rooms for the resident officers. In the basement story of this part of the
building are the Kitchen and other domestic offices for the use of the Club.

The office for the deposit of deeds is in the basement story, next to Chancery-lane.

In the remaining parts of the basement story of the building are fifty-two strong rooms, with
iron doors, for the deposit of deeds, which are well ventilated and fire-proof; their average
size is six feet and a half by seven feet and a half, but some are larger, and others rather
less, than these dimensions. The whole are secured by one double iron door, with a very strong
lock and master-key.

    [1] In our last we erroneously stated the whole of this building as
        the work of Messrs. Lee, for £9,214.; only part of the carcase,
        containing the Hall, Library, &c. being contracted for by those
        builders for the above sum. Other contracts have since been made
        for the completion of the building; of these, the principal is
        with Messrs. Baker and Son (the builders of the King's library
        and new galleries of the British Museum, &c.) who have executed
        the beautiful finishings of the interior: these contracts amount
        to upwards of £12,000.

        Other contracts have been made with the above parties for the
        erection of the Club House, and Dining Rooms, &c., situate in
        Bell Yard, which is an addition subsequently made to the original
        building.

    [2] The best remains of Ionic buildings at Athens are the temples of
        Erecthens and Minerva Pulias in the Acropolis, and the little
        temple on the banks of the Ilissus; but in Asia Minor the examples
        of this order are far more numerous; and some of the finest are to
        be found amongst the magnificent ruins at Brauchidia, at Priene,
        and at Teos, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

       *       *       *       *       *

VAPOUR-BATHS.

Among the remedies for cholera, or perhaps we should rather say attempted remedies, the vapour-bath
is conspicuous over all the other means of cure, external and internal: stimulants, frictions,
rubefacients, blisters, have that for their indirect object which the vapour-bath accomplishes
directly, namely, to produce heat on the surface of the body, and thus restore that correspondence
between the temperature of the interior and exterior parts, which in the disease is so strangely
disturbed. There are two difficulties in the application of the vapour-bath, which are not
easily overcome. When applied to the patient in the ordinary way, from the nature of the heat,
the upper surface of the body is scorched, while the back is almost cold. Now in cholera, the
application of heat to the back is of essential importance. In the whole of the machines for
applying the bath, the patient is exposed to more or less tossing about; which, from the extreme
prostration of strength in cholera patients, is always injurious; and as the patient must,
when taken from the bath, be replaced on a comparatively cold bed, the sudden change will often
do more ill than the bath will do good. To these must be added, in a disease which chiefly
affects the poor, another item, forming an important drawback on the utility of the ordinary
vapour-bath,--the application of it is attended with no inconsiderable expense. A machine which
should obviate these objections, was a desideratum; and we think such a one has been invented
by Mr. Burnet, of Golden Square. It is so simple as to be easily described without a diagram,
and so well adapted to the end, and so easy and cheap in application, that we think we shall
be rendering an acceptable service to our readers in describing it. The best way to effect
this is to show the steps of its application.

We suppose the patient lying on his back in bed. The two sides of a framework, about 6-1/2
by 2-1/2 feet, are placed one on each side of him; five or six broad canvass straps, which
are meant to support his body, are placed beneath him by a couple of attendants; two transverse
pieces of wood are then introduced at the foot and head, to extend the framework; and the cross
straps, by means of eyelet-holes, are attached to the sides, by a row of common brass pins.
This is the work of about a minute. One attendant then raises the frame at the head, while
the other introduces a couple of feet about nine inches long into the frame; and this done,
the foot is raised in a similar way, and similarly supported; a board is then fitted to the
foot, through a hole in the centre of which the chimney of the heating apparatus passes; the
blankets are closely tucked round the patient and the frame; the lamp is applied, and the process
of bathing commences. In this way, it will be seen that the patient is suspended in the heated
air, which is moreover applied to the back in the first instance; there is no fatigue incurred;
and when perspiration has been generated and carried on as long as is deemed expedient, he
is let down again, without difficulty or danger, into his heated bed, and surrounded with the
warm blankets employed in the bath itself. The room in which we saw the experiment performed,
was at a temperature of 43° Fahrenheit; the clothes of the bed were of the same temperature:
the lamp is conical, and has no tube; the wick is merely inserted in it; the charge is two
ounces of spirits of wine. In ten minutes after the lamp had been applied, the thermometer
at the foot of the frame on which the patient is made to recline, was 136°; at the head, 116°;
on the blanket, which covered the bed, 96°. Were the vapour applied above the patient instead
of under him, the difference between the heat at the breast and back would be at least 40°.
The temperature once raised, may be kept up at a very small expense; so that the whole price
of the bath, continued for half an hour or three quarters of an hour, will not exceed eightpence
or ninepence. There is a very simple expedient, by which, when the temperature of the chamber
formed by the frame of the bath is once raised sufficiently high, steam, either simple or medicated,
may be introduced, and the lamp apparatus may be applied either at the foot, the head, or the
side, as is most convenient. The grand recommendation, however, of the bath, is the applicability
of the vapour to the entire surface of the body; the simplicity and ease of the application,
both to the assistants and the patient; the exclusion of the possibility of cold; and its cheapness.
In all these points of view, we look on it as a valuable invention.

Spectator.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER

       *       *       *       *       *

DECLINE OF THE DRAMA.

One thing which I am unable to interpret among the oddities of the English, is their inconsistency
respecting dramatic entertainments. I have never yet been present where two or three of my
countrymen were gathered together, that, after a wrangling review of the weather, they did
not turn their conversation upon the theatres. There is no topic more universally discussed
than the decadence of the drama, or the engagements, merits, and adventures of the performers.
Neither the Lord Chancellor nor the Archbishop of Canterbury is ever so familiarly known by
name and person to the public, as the first tragedian and comedian of the day; and the theatrical
belles and heroines are either elevated to the peerage by matrimony, or lowered by the undertaker
into Westminster Abbey. As some French Vaudevillist observed, "Moliere was denied in France
the rights of sepulture, while

  "Garrick repose à côté de leur rois!"

Yet, notwithstanding all this clamour of popularity--all this infatuation--there is no branch
of the arts so grossly neglected in England as the drama. It is no longer the fashion in London
to attend the theatres. Owing partly to the increase of private amusements, and partly to the
late hours gradually adopted during the reign of George the Fourth, the custom of play-going
has declined among the higher classes, and naturally produces the reaction of bad pieces and
indifferent performers. Even a clever actor, when satisfied that he is to receive judgment
from an unrefined and uneducated audience, will degenerate and grow slovenly; and from what
I have observed of the London stage, I see it is the custom to daub for the galleries, or to
creep through the business under cover of a cold, tame mediocrity. Without the slightest patronage
from the court or substantial encouragement from the fosterers of literary merit, these luckless
personages are expected to attempt the same exertions and intense study, which is rewarded,
in foreign countries, by the most flattering and judicious attention; as well as by a pension,
to cheer the infirmities of old age. Although tolerably well paid by his manager, the English
actor has the mortification of being tyrannized and insulted by the gallery, and overlooked
by the higher classes. A few persons of rank and fortune are provided with private boxes at
the national theatres; but these are usually let by the night to plebeian tenants. It is rare
indeed to observe a family of distinction in the dress circle of either Drury Lane or Covent
Garden; while the French play is never deficient in a fashionable audience.

The Opera, too, is nightly becoming more crowded; while at the two patent theatres "a beggarly
account of empty boxes," and an equally beggarly account of flat, stale, and unprofitable performances,
greets me whenever I am rash enough to take my post of observation. Lady Romford has a private
box, which she visits only in preference to staying at a still duller home, on a disengaged
evening; and Bagot occasionally drags me to the play, to make my foreign ignorance and inexperience
a pretext for following Lady Clara to a spot which no one seems to visit without an apology.
People in society give as many reasons for having done so strange a thing as go to see the
new tragedy, as they would invent in Paris to excuse a similar omission.

Since the Kemble munia, and the Byron mania, there has been a general affectation of indifference
towards poetry and the drama; your true fashionable never mentions either without ridicule--the
natural consequence of previously exaggerated enthusiasm.

But above all the absurdities connected with this national weakness, stands that of the public
prints. So much importance is given by the newspapers to every thing relating to the histrionic
art, that we are daily informed of the whereabout of all the third-rate performers of the minor
theatres; that "Mr. Smith, of Sadler's Wells, is engaged to Mr. Ducrow for the ensuing season;"
or that "Miss Brown, belonging to the ballet department of the Surrey theatre, has sprained
her ankle." While two thirds of a leading print are occupied with details of the Reform Bill,
or a debate on some constitutional question,--or while the foreign intelligence of two sieges
and a battle is concentrated with a degree of terseness worthy a telegraph, half a column is
devoted to the plot of a new melo-drama at the Coburg; or to a cut and dried criticism upon
the nine hundredth representation of Hamlet--beginning with the "immortal bard," and ending
with the waistcoats of the grave-digger!--The Opera, a Novel.

       *       *       *       *       *

EUGENE ARAM.

The recollection of this man is still preserved at Lynn, in Norfolk, at which town he was for
some time usher at the grammar-school. A small room at the back of the house, in which he slept,
was, until these last few years, (when it was pulled down and rebuilt,) mysteriously pointed
to by the little urchins as they passed up to bed of a cold, ghost-enticing night, as the chamber
in which the "usher, who was hanged for murder," was used to sleep.

The tradition which remains of his character is, that he was "a man of loneliness and mystery,"
sullen and reserved; that on half-holy-days, and when his duties would allow, he strayed solitary
and cheerless, as if to avoid the world, amongst the flat uninteresting marshes which are situated
on the opposite side of the river Ouse.

At Lynn the character of Aram was, until his apprehension, unexceptionable; but after that
event, circumstances were then called to mind which seemed to indicate a naturally dark character;
but whether these were all strictly founded in truth, or magnified suspicions arising from
the appaling circumstances of the crime of which he was convicted, I am unable to determine.
The following, derived from unquestionable authority, having been related by Dr. L., who was
master of the grammar-school at the time, may serve as a sample:--there can be no doubt but
that the worthy Dr. himself believed his suspicions well founded, as he used to tremble when
he related it. It was customary for the parents of the scholars, on an appointed day, to dine
with the master, at which time it was expected they would bring with them the amount of their
bills. It was late at night, after one of such meetings, that Dr. L. was awakened by a noise
at his bed-room door; he rose up, and going into the passage which led to the staircase, but
which was not in the direct way from Aram's bed room to the ground-floor, he discovered the
usher dressed. Having questioned him as to the object of his rising at that unseasonable hour,
Aram confusedly answered that he had been taken unwell, and had been obliged to go do down
stairs. The Dr. then retired, unsuspiciously, to bed. From the combined circumstances of the
noise at the door, his great agitation and confusion, and from his being found in the passage,
the worthy Dr., in later years, had no doubt, that, from its being known to Aram that a considerable
sum of money was in his bed-room, Aram intended nothing less than to rob him; and no doubt,
continued the narrator, he would have murdered me too, if it had been rendered necessary, from
my discovering or opposing him.

The spot just at the entrance to the play-ground, at which Aram was taken into custody by two
strange men from Yorkshire, is still remarked, and generally by the young scholar in a tremulous
whisper.--Literary Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

AGENCY OF MAN IN EXTINGUISHING OR SPREADING SPECIES.

Let us make some inquiries into the extent of the influence which the progress of society has
exerted, during the last seven or eight centuries, in altering the distribution of our indigenous
British animals. Dr. Fleming has prosecuted this inquiry with his usual zeal and ability, and
in a memoir on the subject has enumerated the best authenticated examples of the decrease or
extirpation of certain species during a period when our population has made the most rapid
advances. We shall offer a brief outline of his results.

The stag, as well as the fallow-deer, and the roe, were formerly so abundant that, according
to Lesley, from five hundred to a thousand were sometimes slain at a hunting-match; but the
native races would already have been extinguished, had they not been carefully preserved in
certain forests. The otter, the marten, and the polecat, were also in sufficient numbers to
be pursued for the sake of their fur; but they have now been reduced within very narrow bounds.
The wild cat and fox have also been sacrificed throughout the greater part of the country,
for the security of the poultry-yard or the fold. Badgers have been expelled from nearly every
district which at former periods they inhabited.

Besides these, which have been driven out from some haunts, and everywhere reduced in number,
there are some which have been wholly extirpated; such as the ancient breed of indigenous horses,
the wild boar and the wild oxen, of which last, however, a few remains are still preserved
in the parks of some of our nobility. The beaver, which was eagerly sought after for its fur,
had become scarce at the close of the ninth century, and, by the twelfth century, was only
to be met with, according to Giraldus de Barri, in one river in Wales, and another in Scotland.
The wolf, once so much dreaded by our ancestors, is said to have maintained its ground in Ireland
so late as the beginning of the eighteenth century (1710,) though it had been extirpated in
Scotland thirty years before, and in England at a much earlier period. The bear, which in Wales
was regarded as a beast of the chase equal to the hare or the boar, only perished as a native
of Scotland in the year 1057.

