When Watson drew near to Murray's Ferry, he passed the Kingstree road; and, coming to that
of Black river, which crosses at the lower bridge, he made a feint of still continuing along
the Santee; but soon after wheeled about, and took the former route. This manoeuvre might have
deceived a less wary antagonist than Marion. He was soon aware of the enemy's intention. Detaching
Major James, at the head of seventy men, thirty of whom were M'Cottry's rifles, he ordered
him to destroy the bridge, and so post himself as to command it. He himself kept his eye fixed
upon Watson. This bridge was on the main pass to Williamsburg, and the men chosen for its defence
were judiciously taken from that part of the country. It was naturally supposed that, in sight
of their cottage smokes, they would struggle manfully against the enemy's forces.

James proceeded with great rapidity, and, avoiding the road, crossed the river by a shorter
route. He reached the bridge in time to throw down two of the middle arches, and to fire the
string pieces at the eastern extremity. As soon as the chasm was made, he placed M'Cottry's
riflemen at the end of the bridge and on each side of the ford. The rest of his detachment
were so stationed as to cooperate, when required, with their comrades. Marion arriving soon
after, strengthened the force of James with the Pedee company under Captain Potts, and took
post himself, with the main body, in the rear. These arrangements had scarcely been effected
when Watson made his appearance. At this place the west bank of the river is considerably higher
than the east. The latter is low and somewhat swampy. On the west, the road passes to the bridge
through a ravine. The river was forty or fifty yards wide, and though deep, was fordable below
the bridge. The ravine was commanded by M'Cottry's rifles. As soon as Watson approached the
river, which he did from the west, his field-pieces opened upon the passage which conducted
to the ford. But the position assigned to Marion's men, on the eastern side of the river, effectually
protected them. To bring the field-pieces to bear upon the low grounds which they occupied,
was to expose the artillerists, upon the elevated banks which they occupied, to the deliberate
and fatal fire of the riflemen. Watson was soon made aware of the difficulties of the passage.
Not a man approached within gun-shot that did not pay the penalty of his rashness; and those
who drew nigh to succor or carry off the wounded, shared the same fate. It was determined to
attempt the ford, and the advance was put forward, as a forlorn hope, with this desperate purpose.
The officer leading it, came on very gallantly, waving his sword aloft and loudly encouraging
his men. His progress was fatally arrested by M'Cottry's rifle. The signal drew the fire of
the riflemen and musketeers, with whom the banks were lined, and the heavy and deliberate discharge
drove back and dispersed the British advance, nor did the reserve move forward to its assistance.
Four brave fellows attempted to carry off the officer who had fallen, but they remained with him.

Watson was terrified. He was heard to say that "he had never seen such shooting in his life."
There was no effecting the passage in the face of such enemies, and stealing down to the banks
of the river, on the side which they occupied, and wherever the woods afforded shelter, the
British skirmished with Marion's flankers across the stream until night put an end to the conflict.

The next morning Watson sent that dispatch to Marion which, from its lugubrious tenor, has
acquired a degree of notoriety much greater than the name of the officer from whom it emanated.
He complained to Marion of his modes of fighting, objected to the ambuscades of the partisan,
and particularly complained that his picquets and sentinels should be shot down when they had
no suspicion of danger. He concluded by urging upon Marion to come out and fight him like a
gentleman and Christian, according to the laws of civilized warfare. While the tone of the
letter was thus lugubrious, its language was offensive. He applied to the partisans the epithets
"banditti and murderers". Marion returned no answer to this precious document, but renewed
his order to his nightly patrols, to shoot the sentinels and cut off the picquets as before.
He thought the measure quite as legitimate in such a war, as the burning the house and hanging
the son of the widow.

But though Marion returned no answer by the flag, to the letter of Watson, there was a dispatch
by one of the brigade, of a somewhat curious character. There was a sergeant in the brigade
by the name of McDonald, of whom something has been heard before. He was the same bold fellow
who had so closely pursued Major Gainey into Georgetown, leaving his bayonet in the possession
and person of the latter. He was distinguished by his great coolness and courage, an extraordinary
degree of strength, and a corresponding share of agility. He was as notorious among the enemy
for his audacity, as he was among his comrades for his great modesty and goodness of heart.
It appears that, among some of Watson's captures, while pressing hard upon our partisans, had
been the entire wardrobe of McDonald. The sergeant felt it as something more than a loss of
property that his clothes should be taken by the enemy. It was a point of honor that he should
recover them. His message to Watson was of this purport. He concluded with solemnly assuring
the bearer of the flag, that if the clothes were not returned he would kill eight of his men.
Watson was furious at a message which increased the irritation of his late discomfiture. Knowing
nothing himself of McDonald, he was disposed to treat the message with contempt; but some of
his officers, who knew better the person with whom they had to deal, begged that the clothes
of the sergeant might be returned to him, for that he would most certainly keep his word if
they were not. Watson complied with the suggestion. When the clothes appeared, McDonald said
to the bearer, "Tell Col. Watson, I will now kill but four of his men." Two days after he shot
Lieut. Torriano through the knee with a rifle, at a distance of three hundred yards.

Marion, the next day, took post on a ridge below the ford of the river, which is still popularly
called "The General's Island". His rifles still effectually commanded the passage and baffled
every attempt of Watson to cross. Pushing M'Cottry and Conyers over the river, they exercised
themselves in cutting off his patrols and picquets. To save himself from these annoyances,
Watson retreated a little higher up the river and pitched his camp at Blakeley's plantation,
in the most open field that he could find. Here he remained for ten days almost environed by
his adroit and active enemy. Night and day was he kept in a condition of alarm and apprehension.
The cavalry beat up his quarters when he slept, while the riflemen picked off his men the moment
they exposed themselves. It was while he was in this situation that the brave Capt. Conyers
presented himself daily before the lines of the enemy, either as a single cavalier, or at the
head of his troop, demanding an opponent. The anecdote has been already narrated in another
chapter.

