"GASTROS" has also obligingly replied to my query as to "the meaning of the term Pisan, used
in old records for some part of defensive armour," but he seems to have forgotten that I expressly
stated that term had no relation to "the fabrics of Pisa;" at least such is my belief. With
regard to the inventory of the arms and armour of Louis le Hutin, taken in 1316, printed in
Meyrick's Ancient Armour, to which he kindly refers me, it may be observed that the said inventory
is so perversely translated in the first edition of that work (just now I have no means of
consulting the second), as to be all but useless; indeed it might be termed one of the most
extraordinary literary performances of modern times, as the following instance may suffice
to show. One of the items of the inventory is, "une cote gamboisée à arbroissiaus d'or broudées
à chardonereus;" and it is thus rendered into English, "a gamboised coat with a rough surface
(like a thicket;--note) of gold embroidered on the nap of the cloth!" The real signification
is "a gamboised coat embroidered in gold, with little bushes (or trees), with gold-finches
[on them]." But I am rather wandering from my point: I never could ascertain on what authority
Sir Samuel Meyrick asserted that "jazeran armour," as he calls it, was formed of "overlapping
plates." The French word jazeran was derived from the Italian ghiazarino, or ghiazzerino, which
signified "a gorget of mail," or what some of our antiquaries have termed "a standard of mail;"
in France this word always preserved its relation to mail, and in process of time came to be
applied to so lowly an object as a flagon-chain: see Cotgrave's Fr. Dict. ed. 1673. Roquefort,
indeed, says a "jaserans" was a cuirass, but to my apprehension the passage which he quotes
from the Roman d'Alexandre--

  "Es haubers, jazerans, et ès elmes gemez"--

seems to prove that, in that instance at least, a gorget is meant. At any rate, the translation
of the passage in the inventory to which "GASTROS" refers should be, "three Pisan collerets
of steel mail," not that given by Meyrick. Here we have clearly a fabric of Pisa: whereas the
pisan, of which I desire to know the meaning, invariable occurs as an independent term, e.g.
"item, unum pisanum," or "unum par pisanorum." Of course I have my own conjecture on the subject,
but should be glad to hear other opinions; so I again put the question to your correspondents.
In conclusion I would observe to "GASTROS" that they must be very late MSS. indeed in which
such a contraction as pisan for partisan can be found. If you have room, and think it worth
while, I will from time to time send you some corrections of the more flagrant errors of Meyrick.

T. HUDSON TURNER.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Norman Pedigrees. In reference to your correspondent "B.'s" inquiries, he will find much information
in the Publications de la Société des Antiquaires de Normandie. Under their auspices, M. Estancelin
published in 1828 a full history of the Earls of Eu. I am not aware of any full collection
of pedigrees of the companions of William the Conqueror: the names of several of the lands
from which they took their designations yet remain.

W. DURRANT COOPER.

{267}

Norman Pedigrees.--In answer to "B.'s" query (No. 14. p. 214.), an excellent Gazetteer was
published in Paris, 1831, entitled Dictionnaire Complet Géographique, Statistique, et Commercial
de la France et de ses Colonies; par M. Briand-de-Verzé, pp. 856. Many of the names of the
Conqueror's Norman companions will be found in that work; as, for instance, Geoffrey de "Mandeville,
village. Calvados arrondissement, 31½ O.N.O. de Bayeaux," &c.

Norman de Beauchamp: three Beauchamps are mentioned; that 51. from Avranches will be the one
in question.

C.I.R.

Oxford, Feb. 19. 1850.

Norman Pedigrees.--Your correspondent "B." (No. 14. p. 214.) would probably find part of the
information he seeks in Domesday Book, seu Censualis Willelmi Primi Regis Angliæ. But query?
Is "B." right in supposing the prefix "De" to be French? Does it not rather originate in the Latin?

"Domesday" is written in Latin throughout; and the "de," denoting the place, is there occasionally
followed by what seems to be the Latin ablative case. I copy an example:--

    "Canonici de Hansone ten. l. hida de Sansone," (i.e. loc. in
    co. Stafford.)

Then of the person it is said--

    "Sanson ten. de rege, &c.... iii. hid. træ in Hargedone," &c.

J.S.

Translation of Ælian.--In answer to the query of "G.M." in No. 15. p. 232., I beg to state
that in Lowndes's Manual, vol. i. p. 13., is the following notice under the head of "Ælianus
Claudius:"--

    "Various Histories translated by T. Stanley, London, 1665,
    8vo. 5s. This translation is by the son of the learned editor
    of Æschylus, and was reprinted 1670. 1677."

C.I.R.

Ave Trici and Gheeze Ysenoudi.--I regret that I cannot give "H.L.B." any further information
about these ladies than the colophon I transcribed affords. To me, however, it is quite clear
that they were sisters of some convent in Flanders or Holland; the name of their spiritual
father, Nicolas Wyt, and the names of the ladies, clearly indicate this.

S.W.S.

Daysman (No. 12. p. 188.)-- It seems to me that a preferable etymology may be found to that
given by Nares and Jacob. The arbiter or judge might formerly have occupied a dais or lit de
justice, or he might have been selected from those entitled to sit on the raised parts of the
courts of law, i.e. jurisconsulti, or barristers as we call them. I have heard another etymology,
which however I do not favour, that the arbiter, chosen from men of the same rank as the disputants,
should be paid for loss of his day's work.

GEORGE OLIVER.

Perhaps the following may be of some use in clearing up this point. In the Graphic Illustrator,
a literary and antiquarian miscellany edited by E.W. Brayley, London, 1834, at p. 14, towards
the end of an article on the Tudor Style of Architecture, signed T.M. is the following:--

    "This room (talking of the great halls in old manor-houses)
    was in every manor-house a necessary appendage for holding
    'the court,' the services belonging to which are equally
    denominated 'the homage,' with those of the king's palace. The
    dais, or raised part of the upper end of the hall, was
    so called, from the administration of justice. A dais-man
    is still a popular term for an arbitrator in the North, and
    Domesday-Book (with the name of which I suppose every one to
    be familiar) is known to be a list of manor-houses."

C.D. LAMONT.

Greenock.

    [Our correspondents will probably find some confirmation of
    their ingenious suggestion in the following passage from The
    Vision of Piers Ploughman:--

    "And at the day of dome
    At the heighe deys sitte."

    Ll. 4898-9. ed. Wright.]

Saveguard.--"BURIENSIS" (No. 13. p. 202.) is informed that a saveguard was an article of dress
worn by women, some fifty or sixty years ago, over the skirts of their gowns when riding on
horseback, chiefly when they sat on pillions, on a double horse, as it was called.

It was a sort of outside petticoat, usually made of serge, linsey-wolsey, or some other strong
material: and its use was to guard the gown from injury by the dirt of the (then very dirty)
roads. It was succeeded by the well-known riding-habit; though I have seen it used on a side-siddle
by a rider who did not possess the more modern dress.

P.H.F.

Amongst the bequests to the Clothworkers' Company of London is one by Barbara Burnell, by will
dated 27th June, 1630, wherein she directs the company to bestow 4l. 6s. yearly in woollen
cloth to make six waistcoats and six safeguards for six poor women.[17]

Also we find that John Skepworth, by will dated 17th Oct. 1678, gave two closes of land to
the parish of Louth, to the intent that the churchwardens and overseers of the poor there should
apply the rents and profits of the same in providing so much coarse woollen cloth as would
make ten suits yearly to be given to ten poor people of Louth, the men to have coats and breeches,
and the women to have waistcoats and safeguards.[18] {268}

If "BURIENSIS" has a friend belonging to the Clothworkers' Company, it is probable that he
will acquire much information on this subject from their old records.

H. EDWARDS.

    [17] Reports from the Commissioners of Charities b. 235. 32nd
    part 4.--696.

    [18] Ibid.

Derivation of "Calamity" (No. 14. p. 215.)--"Calamity" is from the Latin calamitas, from calamus
a straw or stalk of corn, signifying, 1st, the agricultural misfortune of the corn being beaten
down or laid by a storm; and thence, any other trouble or disaster:--

"Ipsa egreditur nostri fundi calamitas."

Ter. Eun. i. 1.

Upon which the commentator in the Delph. ed. has this note:--

    "Calamitas est grando et tempestas, quæ calamos segetum
    prosternit et conterit. Unde Cicero Verrem vocat 'calamitosam
    tempestatem.'"

Ainsworth, quoting the above passage from Terence, adds:--

    "Ubi Donatus. Proprie calamitatem rustici vocant quod
    comminuat calamum; h.e. culmen et segetem."

The etymology of its synonym, "disaster," is more direct--[Greek: dhus hasthaer], a star of
evil influence, or, as we say, "born under an ill planet."

[Greek: Philologos]

Forcellini, s.v. Calamitas, says:--

    "Proprie significat imminutionem clademque calamorum segetis,
    quæ grandine vel impetuoso aliquo turbine aut alia quapiam de
    causa fit."

He then quotes Servius, Ad Georg, i. 151:--

    "Robigo genus est vitii, quo culmi pereunt, quod a rusticanis
    calamitas dicitur."

Then follows the note of Donatus on Ter. Eun. i. 1. 34.

It appears to me, if "calamitas" were derived from calamus, it would mean something very different
from what it does.

Another suggestion is, that the first syllable is the same as the root of cad-o, to fall; l
and d, everybody knows, are easily interchangeable: as Odysseus, Ulixes: [Greek: dakruon],
lacrima, tear, &c. &c. If so, calamitas is a corrupted form of cadamitas. Mar. Victorinus,
De Orthogr. p. 2456., says:--

    "Gueius Pompeius Magnus et scribebat et dicebat Kadamitatem
    pro Kalamitatem."--(Quoted from Bothe's Poetæ," Scenici
    Latinorum, vol. v. p. 21.)

But how is the -amitas to be explained? I may as well add, that Döderlein, with his usual felicity,
derives it from [Greek: kolouo].

EDWARD S. JACKSON.

I beg to refer MR. F.S. MARTIN (No. 14. p. 215.), for the derivation of "Calamity," to the
Etymologicon Linguæ Latinæ of Gerard Vossius, or to the Totius Latinitatis Lexicon of Facciolatus
and Forcellinus. He will there find that the word calamitas was first used with reference to
the storms which destroyed the stalks (calami) of corn, and afterwards came to signify metaphorically,
any severe misfortune. The terrific hail-storm of the summer of 1843, which destroyed the crops
of corn through several of the eastern and midland counties of this kingdom, was a calamity
in the original sense of the word.

"W.P.P." has also kindly replied to this query by furnishing a part of the Article on Calamitas
in Vossius; and "J.F.M." adds, Calamitas means--

    "The spindling of the corn, which with us is rare, but in
    hotter countries common: insomuch as the word calamitas was
    first derived from calamus, when the corn could not get out
    of the stalk."--Bacon, Nat. Hist. sect. 669.

Derivation of "Zero" (No. 14. p. 215.).--Zero Ital.; Fr. un chiffre, un rien, a cipher in arithmetic,
a nought; whence the proverb avere nel zero, mépriser souverainement, to value at nothing,
to have a sovereign contempt for. I do not know what the etymology of the word may be; but
the application is obvious to that point in the scale of the thermometer below the numbered
degrees to which, in ordinary temperatures, the mercury does not sink.

[Greek: Philologos]

Deanery of Gloucester, Feb. 7. 1850.

"Zero" (No. 14. p. 215.)--Zero, as is well known, is an Italian word signifying the arithmetical
figure of nought (0). It has been conjectured that it is derived from the transposition from
the Hebrew word ezor, a girdle, the zero assuming that form. (See Furetière, vol. iii.) Prof.
le Moine, of Leyden (quoted by Ménage), claims for it also an Eastern origin, and thinks we
have received it from the Arabians, together with their method of reckoning ciphers. He suggests
that it may be a corruption from the Hebrew [Hebrew: rphs], safara, to number.

Complutensian Polyglot.--I cannot pretend to reply to "MR. JEBB'S" inquiry under this head
in No. 12. p. 213.; but perhaps it may assist him in his researches, should he not have seen
the pamphlet, to refer to Bishop Smallridge's "Enquiry into the Authority of the Primitive
Complutensian Edition of the New Testament, as principally founded on the most ancient Vatican
MS., together with some research after that MS. In order to decide the dispute about 1 John
v. 7. In a letter to Dr. Bentley. 8vo. London, 1722."

J.M.

Oxford, Feb. 5.

Sir William Rider.--In reply to the queries of "H.F.," No. 12. p. 186., respecting Sir William
Rider, I beg to say that among the many MS. notes which I have collected relating to the Rider
family, {269} &c., I find the following from the Visitation of Surry, 1623, and from a MS.
book of Pedigrees of Peers in the Herald's College, with additions.

    "Thomas Rider married a daughter of ---- Poole of Stafforde,
    by whom he had Sir William Rider, born at Muchalstone, co.
    Stafforde, Sheriff of London, 1591, Citizen and Haberdasher,
    Lord Mayor, 1600. Will dated 1 Nov., and proved 9 Nov.
    1610, 8 Jas. I. (94 Wood); buried at Low Layton, Essex, &c.
    Sir William married Elizabeth, da. of R. Stone, of Helme,
    co. Norfolk; by whom he had, besides other children and
    descendants, Mary daughter and coheiress, who married Sir
    Thomas Lake, of Canons, Middlesex, from whose issue descended
    Viscount Lake."

S.S.

Pokership (No. 12. p. 185., and No. 14. p. 218.).--It is to be regretted that no information
has been supplied respecting the meaning of this remarkable word, either from local sources
or from the surveys of crown lands in the Exchequer or Land Revenue offices. In one or the
other of these quarters we should surely find something which would dispense with further conjecture.
In the meantime the following facts, obtained from records easily accessible, will probably
be sufficient to dispose of the explanations hitherto suggested, and to show that the poker
of Bringwood forest was neither a parker nor a purser.

The offices conveyed to Sir R. Harley by James I. had been, before his reign, the subject of
crown grants, after the honor of Wigmore had become vested in the crown by the merger of the
earldom of March in the crown. Hence, I find that in the act 13 Edward IV. (A.D. 1473), for
the resumption of royal grants, there is a saving of a prior grant of the "office of keeper
of oure forest or chace of Boryngwode," and of the fees for the "kepyng of the Dikes within
oure counte of Hereford, parcelles of oure seid forest." (6 Rot. Parl. p. 94.)

In a similar act of resumption, 1 Henry VII., there is a like saving in favour of Thomas Grove,
to whom had been granted the keepership of Boryngwood chase in "Wigmoresland," and "the pokershipp
and keping of the diche of the same." The parkership of Wigmore Park is saved in the same act.
(6 Rot. Parl. p. 353 and 383.)

In the first year of Henry VIII. there is a Receiver's Account of Wigmore, in which I observe
the following deductions claimed in respect of the fees and salaries of officers:-

  "In feodo Thomæ Grove, forestarii de Bringewod,
                                       6l. 1s. 6d.
      --   ejusdem Thomæ, fossat'de Prestwode dych,
                                              18d.
      --   Edm. Sharp, parcarii parci de Wiggemour,
                                       6l. 1s. 6d.
      --   Thomæ Grove, pocar' omnium boscorum
              in Wiggemourslonde          30s. 4d."

There is another like account rendered in 23 & 24 Hen. VII. These, and no doubt many other
accounts and documents respecting the honor of Wigmore and its appartenances, are among the
Exchequer records, and we are entitled to infer from them, firstly, that a parcarius and a
pocarius are two different offices; secondly, that, whether the duty of the latter was performed
on the dikes or in the woods of Boringwood chase, the theory of Mr. Bolton Corney (pace cl.
viri dixerim) is very deficient in probability. If the above authorities had not fallen under
my notice, I should have confidently adopted the conjecture of the noble Querist, who first
drew attention to the word, and, so far from considering the substitution of "poker" for "parker"
an improbable blunder of the copyist, I should have pronounced it fortunate for the house of
Harley that their founder had not been converted into a porcarius or pig-driver.

E. SMIRKE.

Pokership.--I had flattered myself that Parkership was the real interpretation of the above
word, but I have once more doubts on the subject. I this morning accidentally stumbled upon
the word "Porcellagium," which is interpreted in Ducange's Glossary, "Tributum ex porcis seu
porcellis."

Porcarius also occurs as Porcorum custos, and mention is made of "Porcorum servitium quo quis
porcos domini sui pascentes servare tenetur."

Now, considering how much value was formerly attached to the right of turning out swine in
wooded wastes, during the acorn season, it seems probable that Sir R. Harley might be the king's
"Porcarius," or receiver of the money paid for an annual license to depasture hogs in the royal
forests; and, after all, Porkership is as like to Pokership as Parkership, and one mistake
would be as easily made as the other.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, Feb. 16.

    [We are enabled to confirm the accuracy of Lord Braybrooke's
    conjecture as to Pokership being the office conferred
    upon Sir Robert Harley, inasmuch as we are in expectation of
    receiving an account of the various forms of its name from
    a gentleman who has not only the ability, but also peculiar
    facilities for illustrating this and similar obscure terms.]

Havior--Heavier or Hever.-Supposed etymology of Havior, Heavier, and Hever, as applied by park-keepers
to an emasculated male deer.--"NOTES AND QUERIES," (No. 15. p. 230.)

Pennant, in his British Zoology, 8vo. edition, 1776, vol. i. p. 38., and 8vo. edition, 1812,
vol. i. p. 45., under the article, "Goat" says:--

    "The meat of a castrated goat of six or seven years old,
    (which is called Hyfr,) is reckoned the best; being
    generally very sweet and fat. This makes an excellent pasty,
    goes under the name of rock venison, and is little inferior
    to that of the deer."

As Pennant was a Welchman, a scholar and a {270} naturalist, he will probably be considered
good authority; and Hyfr, the most likely origin of the altered terms of the deer park-keepers.

The word occurs twice in page 61. vol. ii. of the Sportsman's Cabinet, in the article on the
Stag or Red Deer, where it is printed Heavier; and it will be found also as Hever, in Mr. Jesse's
Scenes and Tales of Country Life, at page 349.

WM. YARRELL.

Ryder Street, St. James, Feb. 11.