"Because," replied Dyvorer, "the princess not only favors you, but, I think, from what my sister
Zanthe has said, that the king has taken this mode of giving her to you at her instance."

Ranier knew that the Lady Zanthe was the favorite maiden of the princess, and, as we are easily
persuaded in the way our inclinations run, he took heart and determined to act upon Dyvorer's
counsel.

About a week afterward, as the king was walking in the court-yard of his palace, as he did
at times, he met with Ranier.

"You have never asked of me the favor I promised, good baron," said King Dagobert.

"It is true, your majesty," said Ranier; "but it was because I feared to ask what I most desired."

"Speak," said the king, "and fear not."

Therefore Ranier preferred his request for the hand of the princess.

"Baron," replied the king, frowning, "some crafty enemy has prompted you to this. The daughter
of a king should only wed with the son of a king. Nevertheless, there is an ancient law, never
fulfilled, since the conditions are impossible, which says that any one of noble birth, who
has saved the king's life, vanquished the king's enemies in battle, and built a castle forty
cubits high in a single night, may wed the king's daughter. Though you have saved my life and
vanquished my enemies, yet you are not of noble birth, nor, were you so, could you build such
a castle in such a space of time."

"I am of noble blood, nevertheless," said Ranier, proudly, "although I have been a wood-chopper.
My father, who died in banishment, was the Duke of Manylands, falsely accused of having conspired
against the late king, your august father; and I can produce the record of my birth. Our line
is as noble as any in your realm, sire, and nobler than most."

"If that be true, and I doubt it not," answered King Dagobert, "the law holds good for you.
But you must first build a palace where we stand, and that in a single night. So your suit
is hopeless."

The king turned and entered the palace, leaving Ranier in deep sorrow, for he thought the condition
impossible. As he stood thus, the fairy, Rougevert, appeared.

"Be not downcast," she said; "but build that castle to-night."

"Alas!" cried Ranier, "it cannot be done."

"Look at your ax," returned the fairy. "Do you not see that the back of the blade is shaped
like a hammer?"

So she taught Ranier what words to use, and vanished.

When the sun was down, Ranier came to the court-yard, and raising his ax with the blade upward,
he said aloud: "Ax! ax! hammer! hammer! and build for my profit!" The ax at once leapt forward
with the hammer part downward, and began cracking the solid rock on which the court-yard lay,
and shaping it into oblong blocks, and heaping them one on the other. So much noise was made
thereby that the warders first, and then the whole court, came out to ascertain the cause.
Even the king himself was drawn to the spot. And it seemed to them, all through the magic of
the fairy, that there were hundreds on hundreds of workmen in green cloth hose and red leather
jerkins, some engaged in quarrying and shaping, and others in laying the blocks, and others
in keying arches, and adjusting doors and windows, and making oriels and towers and turrets.
And still as they looked, the building arose foot by foot, and before dawn a great stone castle,
with its towers and battlements, its portcullis, and its great gate, forty cubits high, stood
in the court-yard.

When King Dagobert saw this, he embraced Ranier, continued to him the title of his father,
whose ducal estates he restored to the son, and sending for the Princess Isauré, who appeared
radiant with joy and beauty, he betrothed the young couple in the presence of the court.

So Ranier and Isauré were married, and lived long and happily; and, on the death of Dagobert,
Ranier reigned. As for the ax, that is lost, somehow, and although I have made diligent inquiry,
I have never been able to find where it is. Some people think the fairy took it after King
Ranier died, and hid it again in a tree; and I recommend all wood-choppers to look at the heart
of every tree they fell, for this wonderful ax. They cannot mistake it, since the word "Boldness"
is cut on the blade, and the word "Energy" is printed, in letters of gold, on the handle.

THE PAINTER'S SCARE-CROW.

BY C.P. CRANCH.

  Miss Arabella Vandyke Brown
  Had a small studio in the town,
  Where, all the winter, blithe and gay,
  She drew and painted day by day.
  She envied not the rich. Her art
  And work made sunshine in her heart.
  Upon her canvas, many a scene
  Of summers past, in golden green
  Was wrought again. The snow and rain
  Pelted upon her window-pane;
  But she within her cozy room
  With joyous toil dispelled the gloom;
  And, sometimes, in an undertone,
  Sang to herself there, all alone.

  But, when the spring and summer came,
  Her studio grew so dull and tame
  She sought the rural solitudes
  Of winding streams and shady woods;
  For painters' works contract a taint
  Unless from Nature's self they paint.

  So out Miss Arabella went,
  To sketch from Nature fully bent.
  It was a lovely summer's day;
  A lovely scene before her lay;
  Her folding-stool and box she took,
  And, seated in a quiet nook,
  Her white umbrella o'er her head
  (Like a tall giant mushroom spread),
  Began to paint; when, lo! a noise
  She heard. A troop of idle boys
  Came flocking round her, rough and rude.
  Some o'er her shoulders leaned; some stood
  In front of her, and cried: "Paint me!--
  My picter I should like to see."
  Some laughed, some shouted. "What a set!"
  Said Arabella, in a pet:
  "And no policeman within hail
  To send these ruffian imps to jail."
  In fine, she could not work, so went
  Straight homeward in great discontent.
  She had no brother to defend her,
  Nor country cousin to attend her.

  A plan occurred to her next day
  To keep these idle scamps away.
  An easel by her side she placed,
  And over it she threw in haste
  A hat and cloak:--and there it stood
  In bold and threatening attitude.
  The rabble at a distance spied
  The scare-crow standing by her side;
  And, thinking 't was the town-police,
  They left Miss A.V. Brown in peace.

  MORAL.

  Sometimes, an innocent pretense
  Is the best means of self-defense,
  And if a scare-crow keeps the peace,
  What need to summon the police?

UNDER THE LILACS.

BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

CHAPTER XXI.

CUPID'S LAST APPEARANCE.

A picnic supper on the grass followed the games, and then, as twilight began to fall, the young
people were marshaled to the coach-house, now transformed into a rustic theater. One big door
was open, and seats, arranged lengthwise, faced the red table-cloths which formed the curtain.
A row of lamps made very good foot-lights, and an invisible band performed a Wagner-like overture
on combs, tin trumpets, drums, and pipes, with an accompaniment of suppressed laughter.

Many of the children had never seen anything like it, and sat staring about them in mute admiration
and expectancy; but the older ones criticised freely, and indulged in wild speculations as
to the meaning of various convulsions of nature going on behind the curtain.

While Teacher was dressing the actresses for the tragedy, Miss Celia and Thorny, who were old
hands at this sort of amusement, gave a "Potato" pantomime as a side show.

