It was not long before the boys of the town found this out, and the bright idea entered the
head of one of them, and was by him told to the others, that it would be a capital place to
crack nuts. So, boy-like, they had to try it, and standing at the base of the spire, would
fill the cracks as far as they could reach with good English walnuts, and then stand back for
the steeple to return to an upright position, cracking the nuts. As the great clock in the
tower struck, the jar caused the spire to lean in the opposite direction. The boys now got
their nuts, and then put in more, that the operation might be repeated, for they considered
it rare sport.

But in the course of time the people of the town who had such matters in charge decided that
the steeple was unsafe, and strengthened it with bands of iron; but this not proving satisfactory,
after a while each stone was numbered, and the steeple taken down and rebuilt in the old style.
And from that day to this, to the regret of the boys, it has never been known to crack nuts.

During a great fire in New York, a few years ago, one of the buildings destroyed was a church
having a very tall steeple. The flames ran up inside this steeple, and, bursting out at the
top, melted the zinc and copper about the lightning rod, so that they fell in showers of green,
gold, and crimson fire, producing a spectacle of most wondrous beauty.

FLOWER QUEENS OF NIGHT.

BY MARGARET EYTINGE.

  "Pretty, fragrant four-o'clocks,"
    Said the rose one day,
  "Pity 'tis your buds unfold
    Into blossoms gay
  When the west begins to burn
    With the sunset light--
  Sweetness wondrous rare to waste
    On the drowsy night.

  "Other blooms have birds to sing,
    Bees to hum, their praise,
  Butterflies to visit them
    Through the summer days.
  Bee but seldom hums for you,
    Bird but seldom sings,
  Butterfly is ne'er your guest,
    Pretty, fragrant things."

  "Lovely, graceful, crimson rose,"
    Said the modest flowers,
  "Though the sun we scarcely know,
    Happiness is ours.
  Moon we have, and sparkling stars
    (Each a heavenly gem),
  And their light so gentle is,
    We can look at them.

  "And the flashing fire-flies
    Round us gleam and glance,
  Like a countless host of fays
    In an airy dance.
  And the moth king, velvet-winged,
    Dainty kiss bestows,
  As he whispers, 'You are sweet,
    Sweet as any rose.'

  "Grieve no more for us, dear friend;
    Thrice content we are,
  Loved by moth and fire-fly,
    Dew-drop, moon, and star.
  And while you o'er garden reign
    In the bright daylight,
  We are hailed by wand'ring winds,
    Flower queens of night."

OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES.

BY CHARLES CARLETON COFFIN.

No. III.

ISAAC BRADLEY AND JOSEPH WHITTAKER.

Twelve miles from the sea, on the bank of the Merrimac River, is the busy town of Haverhill.
It was a small settlement in 1690. There was a cluster of houses and a meeting-house. The country
beyond, all the way to Canada, was a wilderness. The Indians came down the river in their bark
canoes, carrying them past the falls where the city of Lowell now stands, past Amoskeag Falls,
where the Manchester factories to-day are humming. They caught beaver, bear, and foxes, and
sold the furs to the traders.

The Indians were under the influence of the French, and when war broke out between France and
England for the restoration of James II. to the throne from which he had fled, the settlers
of Haverhill, in common with the people all along the frontier, knew that the Indians, influenced
by the French in Canada, might be upon them at any moment.

The settlers had their guns ever at hand. If at work in the field, they placed them where they
could seize them quickly. When they went to bed at night, they put a stout bar of wood across
the door, and examined the flints and the priming. On Sunday, when they went to meeting, each
man carried his gun, and the minister looked down from the pulpit upon men who had powder-horns
and bullet-pouches slung across their shoulders, and whose muskets were standing in the corners
of their pews. Some of the settlers kept watch outside while the others were in meeting. They
went on scouts through the dark woods, peering among the trees to see if the Indians were prowling
in the vicinity.

The settlers were obliged to work hard. While the men were at work in the fields, the women
were spinning and weaving. Boys and girls had little time for play. There was always something
for them to do. When a boy was sixteen years old, he was expected to do the work of a man.
They all learned to shoot, and some of them, when they were only twelve, could bring down a
squirrel from the highest tree every time, or shoot a deer upon the run.

Two boys--Isaac Bradley, who was fifteen years old, and Joseph Whittaker, who was eleven--were
at work one day in Mr. Bradley's field, when suddenly a party of Indians sprang out from the
woods and seized them. Isaac was small, but he was bright, cool-headed, and brave-hearted.
Joseph, though four years younger, was as large as Isaac, but he was not so stout-hearted nor
self-reliant as his companion.

The Indians were from Canada. They did not stop to kill any of the settlers, but hastened away,
travelling through the dark woods northward to the beautiful Lake Winnipiseogee, where they
remained through the winter. The lake swarmed with trout and pickerel, which they could catch
through the ice, and the woods were full of bears and deer.

Isaac made himself at home in the wigwam, and picked up the language of the Indians in a very
short time. The squaws made him do their drudgery; but the warriors liked him, and the Indian
dogs wagged their tails when he looked at them out of his kindly eyes.

Winter passed and April came.

"We go to Canada now," said one of the Indians.

Isaac had no intention of going to Canada. Day after day he thought over the matter. He knew
that the English settlements were far away to the south, but there was no path to them. He
had no compass. How could he ever reach them? He would be guided by the sun by day, and the
stars by night. He would make the attempt. He might perish, but death was better than captivity.

"I am going to try it to-morrow night, but I am afraid you won't wake," he said to Joseph,
who always slept soundly, and snored in his sleep.

"Oh yes, I will," Joseph replied.

The Indians had killed a moose, and Isaac had managed to hide a large piece of meat in the
bushes near the camp. He filled his pockets with their corn-bread. Night came. All were asleep
except Isaac, who was so excited by the thought of escaping that his eyes would not close.
Every sense was quickened. He arose softly and touched Joseph, who was sound asleep. He did
not stir, and Isaac shook him harder.

"What do you want?" Joseph asked.

In an instant Isaac was stretched out, snoring; but the Indians did not wake, and after a little
while the boys arose softly, and crept out of the wigwam, Isaac with an Indian's gun and powder
and balls. They made their way to the meat, took it under their arms, and started upon the
run, guided on their way by the stars. On through the wilderness, amid the tall trees, over
fallen trunks, over stones, through thickets and tangled brushwood, they travelled till morning,
and then crept into a hollow log.

Great the consternation in the camp of the Indians. Their captives gone! a gun lost! At daybreak
the Indians, with their dogs, were on the trail, and in swift pursuit.

The boys heard the barking of the dogs, which soon came sniffing around the log. What shall
they do now? Isaac is quick-witted.

"Good fellow, Bose! good fellow! here is some breakfast for you;" and he tosses the moose meat
to them. The dogs know his voice, devour the meat, and are as happy as dogs can be. The boys
are their friends. They cease barking, and trot around, with no further concern.

The Indians come up on the run. The boys hear their voices, as they hasten by, followed by
their dogs.

Through the day they lie hidden in the log, and when night comes, strike out in a different
direction from that taken by the Indians. All night long they travel, nibbling at their hard
corn-bread. Morning comes, and again they conceal themselves. Once more at night they are on
the march. On the third day Isaac shoots a pigeon, but does not dare to kindle a fire, and
they eat it raw. They find a turtle, smash its shell, and eat the meat. On, day after day,
they travel, eating roots, and buds of the trees just ready to burst into leaf. The sixth day
comes, and they suddenly find themselves close to an Indian camp. They peep through the underbrush,
and see the warriors sitting around their camp fire smoking their pipes. They steal softly
away, and then run as fast as their legs can carry them. The morning of the eighth day comes.
Joseph's strength is failing; his courage is gone; he cries bitterly. They are in the wilderness,
they know not where, with nothing to eat, their clothes in rags, their feet bleeding.

"Cheer up, Joseph; here are some ground-nuts. Here, drink some water," says Isaac.

No brave words, no act of kindness, can quicken the courage of the fainting boy. What shall
Isaac do--stay and die with him, or try to find his own way out? Sad the parting, the younger
lying down to die upon a mossy bank, the older turning away alone, lost in the wilderness.

With faltering steps, Isaac pushes on, and discerns a house. No one is there, but he knows
there must be white men not far away. With quickened pulse, he turns back to the dying boy,
awakens him from sleep, rubs his eyes, bathes his temples, cheers him with encouraging words.

"Come, Joseph, we are saved. There is a house close by."

Joseph's eyes brighten. He stands upon his feet, walks a few steps, and falls. Isaac is stronger
than ever. He lifts his fainting comrade, takes him in his arms, staggers on, reaches the empty
and desolate house, and discovers a beaten path leading southward. He goes on, resting now
and then, but ever speaking words of cheer.

At last they see before them a placid river, and beside it a cluster of houses. They know that
in a few moments they will be once more among friends, and brave Isaac Bradley is almost overcome
with the joy of this knowledge.

What a sight is that which the soldier on the look-out at the garrison-house on the bank of
the Saco beholds, just as the sun is going down--two boys, one carrying the other!

Saved. They are kindly cared for by the soldiers, their wounds are dressed, nourishing food
is given them, once more they are clothed in the garments of civilized beings, and there are
moist eyes in the garrison as they tell their thrilling story. And what rejoicing when at last
they reach their homes!

TOM CHESTER'S SILVER MINE.

BY A. A. HAYES, JUN.

Tom Chester's father lives in a pleasant town in New England, and Tom himself grew up like
other boys in that part of the country. In winter he went to the village school, in an old
red building with a great stove in one corner, and on his way home "coasted" down the long
hill at the foot of which he lived. In summer he helped the hay-makers, and rode on the high-piled
cart, and went on picnics to Blue Mountain, and bathed in the clear brook under the willows.
He grew to be stout, hardy, and red-cheeked, very unlike his father, who pored over his books,
and took no exercise, and grew paler and thinner each year.

One day, as Tom was sitting on the door-step making a whistle out of a slip of willow, he saw
old Dr. W---- drive up in his old-fashioned "sulky," tie his horse to a post, and go to his
father's library, bidding him good-morning as he passed. He remained some time with Mr. Chester,
and as he came out Tom heard him say,

"Very well, then, we will call that settled. And mind, the sooner you start, the sooner you
may expect to find yourself better and stronger."

Mr. Chester, who had followed the doctor to the door, saw the inquiring look on Tom's face,
and asked him, with a smile, how he would like to go to Colorado.

"What! to dig for silver?" cried Tom.

"No; to seek for what is more valuable than silver--health," said his father. "Dr. W---- says
that I must go to the Rocky Mountains, and we shall start in a few days."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was dark when the train rolled into Denver, and Tom, even if he had not been tired and sleepy,
could have seen nothing of the town as they drove to the hotel. But in the morning, when he
woke up and looked out of the windows of his room, which was on the western side of the house,
he cried aloud with surprise and delight. All along the horizon rose a great range of mountains,
with two lofty peaks towering over the others, one at the north and the other at the south.
They seemed so near that Tom thought he could walk to them; but when he had dressed himself
and gone down to the office, he asked the clerk how long it would take, and the man looked
at him, and said, "I wouldn't advise you to try, you little tender-foot."

"My feet are not tender," replied Tom, sharply.

The people in the room all laughed, and a miner in a blue flannel shirt patted Tom on the back,
and said, "That's right, my boy. You remind me of a kid of my own up at Fairplay. The fellow's
only chaffing you. When any one's been just a little while in the country, they always call
him a 'tender-foot.' You mustn't mind that."

Then he went on to explain to Tom that the foot-hills which looked so near were at least fifteen
or twenty miles away. Then he told him about the mining towns, or "camps," as they are called,
and how the men who look for mines, called "prospectors," search through the mountains, seeking
signs of silver ore; and that when they find them, they put stakes in the ground to mark the
"claims" which the law allows, or the right to dig in a space 1500 feet one way and 300 the
other. Then he described how they dig down in hopes of finding what they call "pay gravel,"
or ore which contains enough silver to make it worth sending to the works. He mentioned some
men whom he knew who had sold "prospect holes," as he called them (or shafts partly sunk, and
not yet proved to be good mines), for large sums. Tom was immensely interested in these narrations,
and was eagerly listening when his father came in to find him.

"Guess you'd better let me have that boy of yourn to make a miner of, Colonel," said this new
friend to Mr. Chester. "He's got plenty of sand."

Mr. Chester knew that people in the West give titles to almost every one, but it was some time
before either he or Tom found out that it was a great compliment to say that any one had "sand,"
which means, in the rough but very expressive language of the mountains, that one possesses
bravery and great strength and force of character.

After seeing all the sights of Denver, Tom and his father took the train one morning for a
little town called Golden, near the foot-hills. Here they were transferred to a railroad only
three feet wide, and found an open or "observation" car, from which they could see very well.
The train entered what is called a cañon, or gorge, down which poured the waters of Clear Creek
(which, by-the-way, were not clear at all, but very muddy). It wound up this cañon, the walls
of which seemed to come together away over the heads of the passengers. No boy who is fortunate
enough to make a journey to Colorado should fail to see this remarkable place. The little engine
tugged at the train, and dragged it up the steep cañon, and by the side of the winding stream,
until it came to a valley surrounded by high hills, where is the town of Idaho Springs. Here
Tom and his father left the train, and walked to a neat-looking hotel, where they took up their
quarters. Mr. Chester already felt the benefit of the change of climate, and he wanted to spend
much time in excursions to different points. He and Tom went up by the railroad to Georgetown,
and drove to Central City, and at both places they saw a great many mines. They went down in
buckets, lowered by great ropes, six and seven hundred feet into the shafts, and then sometimes
came out by tunnels cut from the sides of the hills. They saw mills in which gold ore was crushed
by stamps, or great iron bars falling heavily on it, and works where silver ore was put into
hot furnaces--in fact, they saw so many things that Tom became rather bewildered. All the time,
however, he found himself thinking about what the miner had told him in Denver, and longing
to try his own hand at prospecting. When he told his father, one day, that he would like to
go up on the hill-sides or in some of the cañons and look for a mine, the latter at first laughed,
and then grew rather serious, and began to talk about the danger of being led away by this
desire to be suddenly rich without labor.

"You hear, my boy," he said, "about the one, two, or three men who succeed, but not a word
about the hundreds, and even thousands, who make failure after failure, and pass their lives
in the misery of 'hope deferred.'"

Tom listened respectfully to his father, but could not make up his mind that it would not be
a fine thing to find a silver mine. He began to take walks by himself, and look out for the
signs about which various miners had told him. At times he would think that he had found something,
and he would bring little pieces of rock to show to a friend whose acquaintance he had made
in the little town. This was an old miner named Sam, a rough but very kind-hearted man, who
did not laugh at all, but told him pleasantly that he had not yet found any mine.

One day, while walking in a cañon near the hotel, and chipping with a hammer at the broken
rock, he saw two poorly dressed men carrying bundles, as if on a journey, who stopped and asked
what he was doing. They told him that there was no use in searching in that place, but that
they had an excellent prospect hole, already showing "pay gravel," which they had been compelled
to abandon on account of pressing engagements elsewhere, and which, although it was worth many
thousands, they would sell him for ten dollars. Poor little Tom had just that sum, which his
father had given him on his birthday, and to which he had proposed to add his savings, for
the purpose of buying some fishing-tackle. Perhaps his slight "craze" about a mine made him
less cautious than usual. At all events, he accepted the men's offer, and promised to meet
them that afternoon near a tree which they pointed out.

He was there on the minute, with his ten dollars in his pocket. The men took him up the hill,
and showed him a rather deep hole, into which a rough ladder led. Down this they went, and
Tom saw some ore of just the kind that his friend Sam had told him he ought to find. Then the
men set two stakes in the ground, on which they rudely marked "T. C.," took his money, and
walked hastily away. Tom went down to the hotel full of his purchase. His father had gone to
Georgetown, but Sam was there, and to him Tom eagerly narrated what he thought his good fortune.
Sam heard him without remark, and then put on his hat, and taking pick and shovel, asked Tom
to show him the mine. Arriving there, he shovelled up some of the ore which Tom had seen, and
disclosed quite a different rock below. On this lay a piece of board, which he handed to Tom,
who read thereon,

"u ar sold bad u yung tender-fut this aint no mine."

For a moment he did not understand; then came a shock of disappointment, and then a sense of
indignation, not so much against the men who had deceived him as at himself for his delusion
and stupidity.

Sam looked kindly at him. "Pretty rough on you, Tom, wasn't it?" he said. "Why, my boy, this
is an old claim of mine, which I gave up long ago as no good. They've just gone and salted
it--I mean, put some good ore in to deceive you. So they walked off with your ten dollars,
the miserable scamps! Tell me what they looked like."

Tom described them.

"Ho! ho!" said Sam. "I saw those same fellows taking the train for Denver. I'm going down there
to-morrow, and the Chief of Police is a friend of mine. Perhaps we'll run across them some day."

As they walked home, he tried to cheer Tom up by telling him stories of clever men who had
been served in similar ways; but Tom was sober, not on account of his loss, but because it
had come to his mind how foolish he had been from the first. He felt easier when he had told
his father the whole story.

The latter laughed heartily, and said, "Well, Tom, my boy, considering how badly you had the
mining fever, I do not think that ten dollars was a large price to pay for a cure."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some time after Tom had returned to his home he received a letter from Colorado, which proved
to be from his friend Sam, reading partly as follows:

"... I am glad to tell you that we catched them two claim-jumpers [men who steal claims]. They'd
spent all your stamps, sure enough, and you won't never see them no more; but it's a comfort
that they got two years at Cañon City [where the penitentiary is]. Better luck next time. Come
out again next summer, and I'll help you find an A1 mine...."

But Tom says that if he ever has any money at all, it will be earned in some good old-fashioned
way; that he is not a "tender-foot," and that he does not want any more interest in prospect holes.

WOLF-CHILDREN.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.

Some years ago a soldier stationed at Bondee, in India, while passing near a small stream,
saw three wolf cubs and a boy drinking. The soldier at first tied him up in the military gun
shed, and fed him with raw meat; he was afterward allowed to wander freely about the Bondee
bazar. A lad named Tanoo, servant of a Cashmere merchant then at Bondee, took compassion on
the poor boy, and prepared a bed for him under the mango-tree where he himself lodged; here
he kept him fastened to a tent-pin.

Up to this time he would eat nothing but raw flesh, but Tanoo gradually taught him to eat balls
of rice and pulse. In about six weeks after he had been tied up, and after much rubbing of
his joints with oil, he was made to stand and walk upright, whereas hitherto he had gone on
all fours.

One night, while the boy was lying under the mango-tree, Tanoo saw two wolves creep stealthily
toward him, and after smelling him, they touched him, when he got up. Instead, however, of
being frightened, the boy put his hand upon their heads, and they began to play with him, capering
about while he pelted them with grass and straw. Tanoo tried to drive them off, but could not.
At last, however, they left, but the following night three wolves came, and a few nights after
four, which returned several times.

The wolf-boy, however, could not be entirely reconciled to civilized life. In being removed
from place to place he never lost an opportunity of endeavoring to escape into the jungle.
At last Tanoo was sent away on a short journey, and when he returned, his savage charge had
disappeared, and was never again heard of.

The story of another wolf-child is even more wonderful than the above.

In March, 1843, a cultivator who lived at Chupra, about twenty miles from Sultanpoor, went
to cut his crop of wheat and pulse, taking with him his wife, and a son about three years old.
As the father was reaping, a wolf suddenly rushed upon the boy, caught him up, and made off
with him toward the ravines. People ran to the aid of the parents, but soon lost sight of the
wolf and his prey.

About six years afterward, as two sipahees were watching for hogs on the border of the jungle,
they saw three wolf cubs and a boy come out from the jungle and go down to the stream to drink;
all four then ran to a den in the ravine. The sipahees followed, but the cubs had already entered,
and the boy was half way in, when one of the men caught him by the leg and drew him back. He
was very savage, bit at the men, and seizing the barrel of one of their guns in his teeth,
shook it fiercely. The sipahees, however, secured him, brought him home, and kept him for twenty
days, during which he would eat nothing but raw flesh, and was fed accordingly on hares and
birds. His captors soon found it difficult to provide him with sufficient food, and took him
to the bazar in the village of Koeleepoor, to be supported by the charitable till he might
be recognized and claimed by his parents.

He is unable to speak or to articulate any sound with distinctness. In drinking, he dips his
face in the water, but does not lap like a wolf. He still prefers raw flesh; and when a bullock
dies, and the skin is removed, he attacks and eats the body in company of the village dogs.

Commodore Preble sailed from the United States for the Mediterranean in the frigate Constitution
late in the spring of 1803. The ships of the squadron did not sail together. Bainbridge, with
the frigate Philadelphia, first entered the Strait of Gibraltar, and found a Moorish corsair
cruising for American prizes. He captured her and took her to Gibraltar. When Preble arrived
he proceeded to Tangiers with the squadron, when the Emperor of Morocco declared that he had
never authorized any depredations on American commerce. The affair was amicably settled. Soon
afterward the Philadelphia chased a corsair into the harbor of Tripoli, and in so doing struck
upon a sunken rock. She was fast bound. The Tripolitans captured her, made Bainbridge and his
officers prisoners of war, and consigned the crew to slavery.

With Preble was Stephen Decatur, a gallant young Lieutenant, son of a veteran naval commander.
He was in charge of the brig Enterprise, with which, late in December, he captured a Tripolitan
ketch laden with girls which the ruler of Tripoli was sending as a present to the Sultan. The
maidens were landed at Syracuse, and the ketch (which was renamed Intrepid) was used by Decatur
in an attempt to recapture or destroy the Philadelphia. With seventy daring young men he sailed
into the harbor of Tripoli on a bright moon-lit night (February, 1804), the Intrepid assuming
the character of a vessel in distress. Most of her officers and men were concealed.

The Intrepid went alongside the Philadelphia, when Decatur, followed by his men, who sprang
from their hiding-places, boarded the frigate, slew many of her defenders and drove the rest
into the sea, set her on fire, and escaped with only four men wounded. This daring act produced
great commotion in the harbor. The Philadelphia was soon in flames; the great guns of the castle
and of the corsairs lying near thundered incessantly; and to this roar of artillery was added
that of the cannons of the frigate as the flames reached them. The heroes of this exploit were
received at Syracuse with demonstrations of great joy, and Decatur was promoted to Captain.
The ruler of Tripoli was abashed by this display of American energy and valor.

The harbor of Tripoli was guarded by batteries mounting more than a hundred heavy guns, by
numerous gun-boats and other vessels, by twenty-five thousand soldiers, and a sheltering reef.
Undismayed by these, Preble entered the harbor in the summer of 1804, with the Constitution
and several gun-boats, and opened fire on the formidable defenses. In that engagement Decatur
again displayed his valor. He captured one gun-boat, and boarded another, on which he had a
fierce hand-to-hand fight with its powerful commander, but triumphed. The Americans withdrew,
but renewed the struggle a few days afterward, when a hot shot exploded the magazine of one
of the American gun-boats, killing two officers and eight of the crew. When the smoke cleared
away, Midshipman Spence and eleven others were seen on the sinking vessel working her great
gun. Giving three cheers, and firing it at the enemy, they were picked from the water a few
minutes later, for the vessel had gone to the bottom.

In a fourth attack on Tripoli by the gallant Preble a sad accident occurred. It was determined
to blow up the cruisers in the harbor by a floating mine or huge torpedo. The Intrepid was
laden with a hundred barrels of gunpowder, over which were laid shot, shell, and irregular
pieces of iron. In charge of Captain Somers, she was towed into the harbor on a very dark night
(September 4, 1804), when all eyes were strained to observe the result. Suddenly a fierce and
lurid light shot up from the dark bosom of the waters, like a volcanic fire, and was instantly
followed by an explosion that shook earth and air for miles around. Flaming fragments rose
and fell, and then all was profound darkness again. Somers and his companions were never heard
of. They probably perished by the premature explosion of the mine.

Soon after this, Preble, who had done excellent service in the Mediterranean, was relieved
by the arrival of Commodore Barron, prepared to carry on the war with Tripoli vigorously, but
it was ended by treaty early the next year.

The ruler of Tunis was yet insolent, but the appearance of an American squadron of thirteen
vessels before his capital soon so humbled him that he sued for peace and made a treaty. A
small American naval force was kept in the Mediterranean, and for several years the Barbary
powers kept their hands off American commerce.

At the close of the war of 1812-15, the Dey of Algiers, believing the British navy had utterly
destroyed that of the United States, sent out his corsairs to depredate on our commerce. Determined
not to pay tribute or longer endure his insolence, the United States accepted the Dey's challenge
to war, and sent Commodore Decatur with a small squadron to humble him. Decatur sailed in May,
1815, and as soon as he entered the Mediterranean he found the Algerine pirate fleet cruising
in search of American vessels. In June he captured the flag-ship of the Algerine Admiral and
another corsair, with six hundred men. With these he entered the harbor of Algiers, and demanded
the instant surrender of all American captives in the hands of the Dey, payment in full for
all American property destroyed by his forces, and the relinquishment of all claims to tribute
from the United States thereafter. The terrified ruler hastened to comply. Obeying the summons
of the Commodore, he appeared on the deck of the Guerrière (the flag-ship), with his civil
officers and the captives. Having complied with all demands, the Dey left the vessel in deep
humiliation.

Decatur now sailed for Tunis, and demanded and received of its frightened ruler $46,000, in
payment for American vessels which he had allowed the British to capture in his harbor. Then
the Commodore went to Tripoli, and summoned the Bashaw, or Governor, before him. He demanded
$25,000 of him for similar injuries. The Tripolitan treasury was empty, and Decatur accepted,
in place of cash, eight Danish and two Neapolitan captives held by the Bashaw.

This cruise of a little American squadron in the Mediterranean Sea in the summer of 1815, and
its results, gave full security to American commerce in these waters, and greatly exalted the
character of the government of the United States in the opinion of European nations. A portion
of its navy had accomplished, in the way of humbling the rulers of the Barbary States, and
weakening their power for mischief, what the combined governments of Europe had not dared to
attempt. Decatur was the most conspicuous hero in the war with the Barbary States.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

WHAT THE BUTTERFLY SAYS.

  Through all the sunny summer days
    I wander here and there,
  And hardly ever stop to rest
    A moment anywhere.
  There are so many things to see,
  And time is rather short with me.

  I only have a month or two,
    And time soon runs away
  When one is seeing something new,
    Or sporting every day.
  And how the little people try
  To catch me as I flutter by!

  But I know what they want me for--
    It's not to use me right;
  It's not to give me sunny fields,
    With daisies sprinkled white;
  But just to pin me on the wall
  To show their friends, and that is all.

THE SHIP OF THE DESERT.

BY A. E. T.

Unlike other ships, this one begins by being a very feeble and helpless little craft indeed.
For the first week after its launch on the great sea of life it requires much careful watching
on the part of the owners.

Strange as it may sound, in very truth a baby camel is every whit as helpless as a human baby.
It can not stand alone; without help it can not so much as take its own food even; while its
long neck is at first so flexible and fragile, that unless some one were constantly at hand
to watch, the poor little creature would run every risk of dislocating it.

Those who have closely observed camel nature tell us it is never known to play or frolic like
lambs or colts, or like most young creatures of the earth, in fact; but that in its babyhood
it is as grave and melancholy as in its old age, born apparently with a deep sense of its own
ugliness, and a mournful resignation to a long and joyless career.

When it has reached its third year the humpbacked animal is counted old enough to begin its
life of labor. The trainers then take it in hand. They teach it to kneel and bear burdens,
which gradually they make heavier and heavier, until their charge is supposed to have come
to the full strength of camel maturity. This is not until it is about eight years old.

If the camel can rise with the load on its back, this is proof positive that he can carry it
throughout the journey, although it sometimes happens, if the journey be only a very short
one, the patient beast is loaded so heavily that it must be helped on to its feet by means
of bars and levers. In some places camels cry out against this excessive loading in a most
piteous and distressing manner--the cry resembling that of a very young child in pain, and
being a most dismal sound to hear; but in other parts of the world they will bear their burden,
however heavy, without complaining.

An ordinary camel's load is from seven to eight hundred pounds. With this weight on their backs,
a train of camels will cross thirty miles of desert during a day. Those used to carry dispatches,
having only the light weight of the dispatch-bearer, of course are expected to travel much
faster, however, and will easily accomplish two hundred and forty miles in the same length of time.

Ungainly, awkward, repulsive-looking as these creatures are, with their great projecting harelips
and their hairy humps, they have the compensation of being most priceless treasures to all
those who "dwell in tents" in the vast sandy plains of Egypt, Arabia, and Tartary.

Their stomachs are so formed by nature that they are capable of being converted into a set
of water tanks, a number of small cells filled with the purest water being fastened to the
sides of each, and when all food fails, it makes little difference to a camel or dromedary--at
least for a time.

Their humps are composed of a fatty substance. Day by day the hump diminishes, and the fat
is absorbed into the animal's system, furnishing nourishment until food is forth-coming.

Thus, with these stores of water and fuel on board, the "ship" can go on for a fortnight, or
even a month, absolutely without eating or drinking, while things that other creatures--unless,
perhaps, it be some bird of the ostrich tribe--would never dream of touching, will furnish
forth a sumptuous meal for a camel. Off a handful of thorns and briers he can make an excellent
breakfast, and I believe he will not disdain anything apparently so untempting as a bit of
dry wood.

Provided that at certain periods of the year a short holiday is allowed the camel for pasturing,
quite at its leisure, to recruit its strength and fill that store-house on its back with fuel,
it will serve its master, on such meagre fare as I have mentioned, for full fifty years. Still,
all work and no play is as bad for camels as it is for boys.

Even with plenty of fuel on board, the desert-ship owners are wise enough not to impose too
long journeys upon their heavily laden fleets.

A camel's foot is of a peculiar formation. It is wide-spreading, and is provided with fleshy
pads or cushions; and if after a certain march rest were not given, the skin would wear off
these pads, the flesh become bare, bringing consequences direful indeed. Probably the suffering
creature would kneel down, fold its long legs under its body, and stretching out its long neck
on the ground, calmly announce in camel language that it would go no further. It is no use
whatever to try to make a camel go against his will.

If it once refuses, you have but two ways open to you: you may quietly lie down beside it until
it is ready to move, or you may abandon it forever. Other course there is none.

It is a curious fact that, notwithstanding the softness of the camel's foot, it can walk over
the sharpest stones, or thorns, or roots of trees without the least danger of wounding itself,
and that what this strange beast most dreads is wet and marshy ground.

We read that "the instant it places its feet upon anything like mud, it slips and slides, and
generally, after staggering about like a drunken man, falls heavily on its side."

The use of the camel to the various peoples of the East is almost incalculable. Many an Arab
finds his chief sustenance in the cheese, butter, and milk of the mother camel. The flesh of
young camels is also often eaten.

The Roman Emperor Heliogabalus is said to have reckoned camel's feet one of the daintiest dainties
of his sumptuous banquets, and he considered a portion of tender camel roast a thing to be
by no means despised. To this day, indeed, camel's hump cut into slices and dissolved in tea
is counted a relish by the Tartar tribes.

Camel's skin is made into straps and sandals, while brushes and ropes, cloth and tents, sacks
and carpets, are made entirely from camel's hair.

Every year toward the beginning of summer the camel sheds its hair, every bristle of which
vanishes before the new hair begins to grow. For three weeks this bare condition lasts. His
camelship looks as if he had been shaved without mercy from the tip of his tail to the top
of his head, and during this shaven season he is extremely sensitive to the cold or wet, shaking
in every limb if a drop of rain falls, shivering painfully in the chilliness of the night air.

By-and-by the new hair begins to grow--fine, soft, curly wool that gradually becomes long,
thick, soft fur; and after this, the rain may rain as much as it likes, the night air may be
as chilly as it will, the camel will not care a grain. In that armor of nature's providing
he will not shiver or shake any more.

