The Indians on the banks of the Oronoko assert, that previously to an alligator going in search
of prey, it always swallows a large stone, that it may acquire additional weight to aid it
in diving and dragging its victims under water. A traveller being somewhat incredulous on this
point, Bolivar, to convince him, shot several with his rifle, and in all of them were found
stones, varying in weight according to the size of the animal. The largest killed was about
17 feet in length, and had within him a stone weighing about 60 or 70 pounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRICKET.

Miss Mitford, in one of her charming sketches, tells us of a cricket-ball being thrown five
hundred yards. This is what the people who write for Drury-lane and Covent-garden would call
"pitching it pretty strong."

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVANTAGES OF CHEAP BOOKS.

When Goldsmith boasted of having seen a splendid copy of his poems in the cabinet of some great
lord, saying emphatically, "This is fame, Dr. Johnson," the doctor told him that, for his part,
he would have been more disposed to self-gratulation had he discovered any of the progeny of
his mind thumbed and tattered in the cabin of a peasant.--Q. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMEMBRANCE.

  I recollect my happy home,
    My pleasures as a child;
  The forest where I used to roam,
    The rocks so bleak and wild.
  That home is tenantless; the spot
    It graced is rude and bare;
  The lov'd ones gone, our name forgot.
    And desolation there.

Forget Me Not--1829.

In how many thousand hearts will this lament find an echo!

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gatherer

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUID PRO QUO.

A canon of the cathedral of Seville, who was very affected in his dress, and particular in
his shoes, could not in the whole city find a workman to his liking. An unfortunate shoemaker
to whom he applied, after quitting many others, having brought him a pair of shoes which did
not please his taste, the canon became furious, and seizing one of the tools of the shoemaker,
gave him with it so many blows on the head, that the poor shoemaker fell dead on the floor.
The unhappy man left a widow, four daughters, and a son fourteen years of age, the eldest of
the indigent family. They made their complaints to the chapter; the canon was prosecuted, and
condemned not to appear in the choir for a year.

The young shoemaker, having attained to man's estate, was scarcely able to get a livelihood;
and overwhelmed with wretchedness, sat down on the day of a procession at the door of the cathedral
of Seville, in the moment the procession passed by. Among the other canons he perceived the
murderer of his father. At the sight of this man, filial affection, rage, and despair got so
far the better of his reason, that he fell furiously on the priest, and stabbed him to the
heart. The young man was seized, convicted of the crime, and immediately condemned to be quartered
alive. Peter, whom we call the cruel, and whom the Spaniards, with more reason, call the lover
of justice, was then at Seville. The affair came to his knowledge, and after learning the particulars,
he determined to be himself the judge of the young shoemaker. When he proceeded to give judgment,
he first annulled the sentence just pronounced by the clergy; and after asking the young man
what profession he was, "I forbid you," said he, "to make shoes for a year to come."

       *       *       *       *       *

When Demetrius conquered the city of Magara, and every thing had been plundered by his soldiers,
he ordered the philosopher Stilpon to be called before him, and asked him whether he had not
lost his property in this confusion? "No," replied Stilpon, "as all I possess is in my head."

