The four Indians were shielded, likewise.  They laughed at his efforts, and waxed bolder. 
They had Daniel Boone!

"Come out, Boone," they called.  "Come out.  No fight, no get hurt. Many Injuns near."

So he wisely surrendered before he lost his scalp.

It was well that he had done this.  The four Indians took him to their main party.  There were
one hundred and two Shawnees, altogether, and two white allies, marching down under Chiefs
Munseka and Black Fish to attack Boonesborough and avenge the murder, last fall, of the Chief
Corn-stalk party when prisoners in the American fort at Point Pleasant on the West Virginia
side of the Ohio River.[1]

The capture of Captain Daniel Boone was hailed with great joy.  The Shawnees scarcely had expected
to achieve this feat.  Once before he had been taken, but had escaped while his guards were
drunk.  He was a hard man to hold; now they were determined to keep him.

They seemed to know that he and his men had gone out from Boonesborough, salt-making.  That
was why they had chosen this time for the attack.  Now they demanded that he tell his men at
the licks to surrender likewise.

"We will surprise them, too, and kill them.  Or let them surrender and they shall not be harmed,"
said Black Fish.

Daniel Boone had been thinking rapidly.  He understood Indian nature. The Shawnees were treating
him kindly--they respected him as a great chief who had always met them fairly.  He had killed
a number of their warriors, but only when fighting man to man against odds.  He trusted the
word of Black Fish.

Burdened with prisoners got at a bargain, so to speak, the Shawnees might prefer to go home
rather than attack Boonesborough.  But if his men fought and killed, they likely enough would
be cut to pieces; the Shawnees, blood maddened, would attack Boonesborough--and woe to the
women and children!

"I will tell them to surrender," he promised.  "I have your word."

"That is good," Black Fish answered.  "They shall not be harmed."

In the morning they all marched the few miles to the Blue Licks camp. Covered by the Indians'
tomahawks and guns, he stood forth, at the edge of the snowy timber, and hallooed.  He stated
just what had happened, and what was likely to happen now if they resisted.

The fact that he himself had surrendered scored heavily.  He was not a man to give up without
good cause.

"Boone is prisoner!"

The sight rather took the tuck out of the salt-makers.  They knew him for a man of sound common-sense;
his word, in Indian matters, was law; and they surrendered, also.  But it was a bitter pill.

However, Chief Black Fish proved true.  Two of the camp hunters, Thomas Brooks and Flanders
Callaway, were still out; and two of the salt-makers had returned to Boonesborough, with salt
and the news that all was prosperous at the Licks.  This left twenty-seven to march with the
Shawnees.

As Daniel Boone had hoped, instead of continuing on to Boonesborough the Shawnees hastened
northward, to display their triumph in their town of Little Chillicothe on the Little Miami
River in southwestern Ohio. Twenty-seven prisoners, without the loss of a scalp!  And American
prisoners were worth money, these days.  The British father at Detroit was paying $100 for
each one brought in to him.

Knowing this, the Boone men were encouraged to believe that none of them would be tortured;
for their bodies were more valuable than their scalps.

It was a ten days' journey, in very cold weather, to Little Chillicothe.  Daniel Boone says
that on the way his party "received as good treatment as prisoners could expect from savages."
The good treatment was not broken.  He recalled that last year James Harrod, of Harrod's Fort,
had wounded a Shawnee, then had nursed him in a cave and let him go.  Possibly this was one
reason for the kindness of the Shawnees.

At any rate, he was given the name Big Turtle, because he was so strongly built, and was adopted
as a son by Chief Black Fish.  Sixteen of the men likewise were then adopted, by chiefs and
old women and warriors.

Big Turtle tried to bear his new honors modestly.  He and the others worried considerably about
their families, down at Boonesborough.  What would be the feelings there, when nobody returned
from the Blue Licks! Still, they could not help themselves.  Big Turtle counseled patience,
and set the example.  He was a silent kind of a man, who bided his time until the right opportunity
should come.

On March 10, about three weeks after their arrival at Chillicothe, he, and the ten men who
had not been adopted were taken north to Detroit. There the ten men were sold, for $100 apiece,
in goods.  Big Turtle was proudly placed on exhibition, but he was not for sale.

The fame of Daniel Boone of Kentucky had spread widely.  Now here he was--a tall, strongly-framed,
slightly stooped man, with a long and noiseless stride and a low and quiet voice.  He wore
buckskin.  His face was high-cheeked and thin, his nose a little hooked, his chin firm.

The lieutenant-governor at Detroit, General Hamilton, offered Black Fish $500 for him.  Black
Fish refused.

"I will not sell.  He is a great captain.  He is my son.  He will stay with me.  You see that
I have him."

The English in Detroit made much of Daniel Boone.  They liked his manners.  They entertained
him, and questioned him about his adventures, and offered him money.

"I thank you," he answered, "but I cannot accept, for I should not be able to repay."

Governor Hamilton also treated him well; insisted that he be ransomed in some way, so that
he might return home on parole; otherwise he might yet be killed, should the Indians get angry.
But Big Turtle shook his head.  He had rather go back to Chillicothe and take his chances.

Having exhibited him for two weeks, Chief Black Fish and warriors escorted him back to Chillicothe.
They left Detroit on April 10, and were fifteen days on the trail: another disagreeable march.
Big Turtle made no complaint, he acted as much Indian as they, and they thought more highly
of him than ever.  They marveled that a white man should equal them.

Pretty soon, as he had not tried to escape, and did not sulk or shirk, they grew to look upon
him as one of them forever.  Did he not mingle with them, and eat as they ate, and sleep as
they slept, and appear perfectly satisfied?  Other white men had become Indians; so why not
he!  The Indian life was the best life, the Shawnees the greatest of nations, and he would
be a chief!

A cunning man, was Daniel Boone.  They could not see behind his face. At the shooting matches
he allowed them to beat him.  This pleased them immensely; they did not suspect that he planted
his balls precisely where he had purposely aimed; and that he was wise enough to know that
if he beat an Indian, the Indian would be his enemy.  Instead, he gained a friend with every
shot.  They sent him out hunting, under guard.  He brought in deer, and gave the meat away.

Finally, to test him, they sent him out alone--but they watched him. He did not attempt to
run off; he came back, with more meat.  He was well aware that they had watched him, but he
said nothing about it. Then Chief Black Fish decided to trust him completely.  He only counted
the bullets, each time, by doling out two or three.

"Here are your bullets.  We know you never miss.  For each bullet, a deer."

"That is good," replied Big Turtle.

He was smarter than they.  In the woods he cut a bullet in two, and used half charges of powder.
Two deer, to each ball and each full charge of powder!  In this way he gradually laid aside
ammunition for future use.

He frequently wondered about Boonesborough.  How was the place getting along!  How were his
family?  No words came up from there.  But if it had been attacked, he would have heard.

On the first of June the Black Fish family took him eastward to some salt licks on the Scioto
River, and put him at work making salt.  This caused him to think of home more than ever, if
that were possible. After he had been there ten days he was taken back to Chillicothe, and
he beheld an alarming sight.

One hundred and fifty chiefs and warriors were already "painted and armed in a frightful manner,"
about to start against Boonesborough! They had made complete preparations while he was absent.
Now he heard the talk, which he pretended not to understand, but he saw that he must escape
at once and carry warning.

He had to wait a week before his chance opened.  All that time he was on pins and needles,
lest the Indians leave before him.  Yet he dared not so much as flicker an eye.  He had to
laugh and loaf and eat and sleep, the same as usual.

He dared not hurry, either.  If he tried to hunt, before-time, likely enough he would be frowned
upon and maybe tied up.  So he waited.  He felt certain that once started, he could out-travel
the warriors, did they not have too much of a lead.

Toward the close of the first week they were still in the town, waiting for other bands and
for orders from Detroit.  On the night of June 15 Big Turtle said to his father Black Fish:

"The meat is low.  To-morrow morning I will hunt for more."

"You are right, my son.  It is time.  Go, as you say."

The bullets were doled out: two or three.  The powder was measured. Early in the morning of
June 16 Big Turtle strode forth, into the forest.  He did not hurry; but when far from sight
of spies he went to his câche of ammunition, scooped up the powder and lead hidden there, and ran.

Before night there would be four hundred and fifty Shawnee warriors eager for Captain Boone;
if he was caught, he surely would be tortured and killed; even Black Fish could not save him.
And Boonesborough would fall.

Luckily, the Indians would not be looking for him until later in the day.  He was supposed
to be hunting.  Now, with this head-start, could he but reach the Ohio River!  Once across
the Ohio, and he would feel safe, for he knew the Kentucky country.

Never had he traveled so fast; never before had he taken such pains to leave a blind trail.
He did not stop to eat nor to sleep; and when, on the second day, he emerged upon the banks
of the broad Ohio River, the current was swirling full and muddy, swollen by the June freshets.

Daniel Boone was no swimmer to brag of; not with rifle and powder, in such a river.  For a
moment he was daunted, but he swiftly scouted along the shore, seeking a partial ford, or islands
that would aid him. By a miracle he came to a canoe--an old canoe, half concealed in the bushes
at the water's edge, with an end stove in.

Laboring rapidly, he stuffed and patched the hole.  By paddling with his hands and a branch
he crossed, and still he heard no whoop of pursuit.

He was in his loved Kentucky.  The Ohio River and the Shawnee country lay behind him.

Near sunset of June 20 he sighted the clearing of Boonesborough.  He saw the log walls of the
fort, the rudely shingled sloping roofs of the rows of cabins lining it, the supper smoke gently
wafting from the clay chimneys.  Everything looked to be as when he had left, except that the
season was smiling summer instead of white winter.  Yes, his home was safe, and so was he.
Afoot he had covered one hundred and sixty miles, breaking his own trail through the forest
and across the streams, in four days, and had eaten only once.  That was a record, white or red.

He hastened down in.  His eye rapidly grasped details.  The gates of the fort were widely open;
women were outside, milking cows; men were chopping wood in the timber; children were fetching
water, and playing about, even straying almost beyond call.  No guards were posted, on the
look-out.  The logs of the defences had sagged by weather--some appeared to have rotted.  One
of the double gates, swung inward, hung crookedly.  It was a Boonesborough gone to seed in
a fancied peace.

He arrived unchallenged.  Indians might have done the same.  The first persons whom he met
stared at him blankly, then amazed.

"What!  Boone?  We thought you dead long since man!  Hooray!"

At the cry, the people flocked to greet him.  He had been absent five months and twelve days;
four of these months he had been among the Indians.  Shawnee paint was still on his face; his
hair was unusually long, and he himself uncommonly thin and gaunt--weary but keen.

"Where's Rebecca?  How are my wife and children?"

There was silence.  Then Simon Kenton spoke up frankly.

"Well, you see, Dan, they'd give you up.  We all thought you dead--you and likely the rest
of the boys.  You'd escaped once from those same Injuns; 't ain't their nater to let a man
escape twice.  So Rebecca got heart-sick.  After waitin' a bit, and hearin' naught, she packed
what she could and took the children, and set out hossback for her father's home in North Caroliny."

Daniel Boone grew pale.

"Alone?"

"Yes."

"Did she get there?"

"Yes; all right.  Never harmed."

"Thank God.  I do not blame her."

"But Jemimy's here.  Here's Jemimy!  She didn't go."

That was the pleasant surprise.  Jemima, aged seventeen, rushed into his arms.

"Father!  Father!"

"Gal, gal!  Bless you, gal!  But why didn't you go with ma?"

"I wanted to be here if you came back, father.  I knew you'd come."

Daniel Boone wiped the tears of joy from his tired eyes.  He thrust Jemima aside, for sterner duty.

"Gather everybody into the fort.  We must repair it and be ready for a siege.  When I left
Chillicothe four days ago the Injuns had armed and painted for the war-path and they'll be
on us any moment."

That changed the scene.  There was calling and running.  Boone ate a few mouthfuls, while directing.
As they all worked he told his story; he answered a hundred questions about the other prisoners;
wives and brothers and sisters were eager to know how they were getting along.

Within twenty-four hours Fort Boonesborough had been repaired.  It was a roomy fort; the walls
of palisades a foot thick and twelve feet high fenced almost an acre.  They were helped by
the rows of cabins, blank to the outside, the hewn-shingle or "shakes" roofs sloping sharply.
In the corners there were block-houses, projecting out like bastions, so as to sweep the walls
with their port-holes.  Boonesborough had been well planned, and ranked as the strongest settlers'
fort in Kentucky.

But the clearing around was small.  The brush and forest were within gun-shot, and the river,
flowing between high banks, was only sixty yards in front.  The old salt lick extended from
the very walls. Inside the fort a well had been excavated, at sign of a spring.

The Indians did not appear.  Soon second-stories had been added to the block-houses, making
double bastions.  Then, on July 17, William Hancock came in.  He also had escaped from Chillicothe;
but he had been twelve days on the way, and was almost famished.

"There was rare racin' and chasin' up yonder when they found you'd cleared out, Daniel," he
reported.  "It over-set their plans, I can tell you!  So they put off their march for three weeks."

Daniel Boone at once sent a messenger eastward to Colonel Arthur Campbell, lieutenant commanding
the militia at the Holston settlements in southwestern Virginia; said he expected an attack
soon; could hold out three or four weeks--and then "relief would be of infinite service."

Still the Shawnees did not show up.  A few spies were seen, near the fort.  Evidently they
had found the fort rebuilt and ready and had gone back with discouraging news.  About six weeks
had passed since William Hancock had reported; the cattle collected in the fort were turned
out to graze, and with nineteen men Captain Boone the Big Turtle started upon a scout northward
to learn what had happened to the Shawnees.

Young Simon Kenton (who was known as Simon Butler) was his lieutenant. Their goal was the Shawnee
village of Paint Creek in southern Ohio east from the town of Little Chillicothe on the Little
Miami.

They were not far from Paint Creek, when Simon Kenton, scouting before, stole upon two Indians
riding a pony through the brush and laughing heartily.  He shot them both with a single ball;
off they tumbled, pierced through the breast, one dead, the other wounded; away ran the pony;
on ran Simon, to finish the business with his tomahawk and take the scalps--and just in the
final act he ducked his head aside barely in time to dodge the bullets of two more Indians.

That was a close call.  Now the brush seemed full of Indians.  He made for a tree.  The firing
and the galloping pony had carried the alarm to the main party; Daniel Boone and all came in
a hurry, and cleared the neighborhood.  The Indians had numbered thirty.  The wounded warrior
was borne off, but Simon took the scalp of the dead brave, after all.

He and his true friend, Alexander Montgomery, were sent ahead, to spy upon Paint Creek town.
Paint Creek town was empty.

"Back to Boonesborough!" Captain Boone exclaimed.  "The varmints are rallying.  We've no time
to lose."

At best speed they traveled for Boonesborough.  All signs pointed to the fact that the march
of the Shawnees was under way.  They scouted for the trail of the red army, and found it. 
It was broad and fresh. On the sixth day southward they were right at the heels of the Shawnees,
and circuited their camp at the Blue Licks itself, only forty miles from the fort.  Indeed
there had been no time to lose.

But the next afternoon they trooped, breathless, into Boonesborough, with word that the Shawnees--in
full force--were close at hand.

At ten o'clock the following morning, September 7, the enemy appeared. They had crossed the
Kentucky at a ford a mile and a half above the fort, had marched around by the rear, and now
filed down for it from a timbered ridge on the south.

They made an imposing sight.  They had flags, both French and British. They had horses with
baggage.  They mustered some four hundred warriors, a dozen Canadian white men, and a negro
named Pompey who was an adopted Shawnee.  Their red chiefs were Black Fish himself, Moluntha,
Black Wolf and Black Beard; their captain was a French-Canadian named Isidore Chêne, of the
British Indian department at Detroit.

Under a white flag, Captain Chêne demanded the surrender of Fort Boonesborough.  Counting the
old men and boys, and several slaves, Daniel Boone had sixty persons who could handle a rifle;
only forty of them were really shooters.  He asked for two days in which to consider surrendering,
but his mind was already made up.

The Shawnees had not donned their war paint for nothing; old Black Fish had come, looking for
his "son"--and the rest had come, looking for whatever they might get.

Captain Chêne, a pleasant enough man, consented.  He posted his hideous array in the forest,
to cut off any escape; Captain Boone spent the two days in gathering loose cattle into the
stockade and putting last touches upon the defences.  He looked in vain for the militia from
Virginia.

Of course, while he knew what he himself would rather do, he had no right yet to speak for
the rest.  He held a council with them.  If they surrendered, he said, likely enough their
lives would be spared, but they would be prisoners in far-away Detroit, they would lose all
their property, their fort and homes would be burned.  If they fought, they might hold out,
but the Indians were led by white soldiers and it would be a desperate siege, much worse than
the other sieges.  If they were overcome, they could expect no mercy, for the few whites would
be unable to keep the tomahawks and scalping-knives from them.

Every voice declared:

"Let us fight."

Therefore on the morning of the third day Captain Boone made reply to Captain Chêne.

"Sir, we have consulted together and are resolved to defend our fort whilst a single one of
us is living.  But we thank you for giving us notice, and time in which to provide for our
wants.  As for your preparations, we laugh at them.  We do not fear painted faces.  You shall
never enter our gates."

"We know that you are brave men," Captain Chêne the soldier courteously answered, and the daubed
countenances of the Shawnees, peering from the thickets behind him, tried to leer.  "Governor
Hamilton appreciates your situation.  The force against you is over-whelming, but he has charged
me not to destroy you.  He does not wish even to treat you with harshness.  If you will send
out nine of your men for a talk, we will come to some agreement by which you will evade further
trouble, and I will then withdraw my forces and return whence we came."

Governor Hamilton certainly had acted kindly toward Daniel Boone, in Detroit.  The "hair-buying
general," he was dubbed by the American colonists because he gave out rewards for scalps and
prisoners taken by the Indians.  But he had a good side, and Captain Boone felt moved to experiment
again.  His men agreed with him.  There was a slim chance of favorable terms.

He took his brother Squire Boone, Stephen and William Hancock, Colonel Richard Callaway, Settler
Flanders, and three others.  They carried no arms, for Captain Chêne was unarmed.

"We will halt within fair rifle-shot," said Captain Boone, to the remaining men.  "Do you cover
us well and watch every movement."

The nine sallied out and met Captain Chêne about forty yards in front of the gates.  Captain
Chêne proposed the terms.  He was all politeness and smiles.  So were the Shawnee chiefs--although
Black Fish eyed the Big Turtle rather darkly.  He thought him a very ungrateful son.

The terms were these, said Captain Chêne: only these.  If the Boonesborough men would but sign
a paper, promising not to fight against His Britannic Majesty King George, and submitting to
the rule of Governor Hamilton, the whole garrison might march away unharmed, with all their goods.

The nine looked upon each other questioningly.  "That's ag'in all reason," thought Daniel Boone;
and so thought his comrades.  Those four hundred Indians would never permit it.  They had been
fooled by him twice; they had come a long distance for plunder; they had been led to expect
rich prizes as their reward.  Merely to see the garrison move out, leaving a bare fort, would
not satisfy them.  Indians go to war for scalps, horses, guns, powder, iron, captives.

"We will sign," remarked Daniel Boone.  It was the quickest way to learn what would happen
next.  Something was due to happen, whether they signed or not.

Now Chief Black Fish had his turn.  He stood forward and made a speech. An oily old rascal,
he.  This was a treaty between two great white nations, and with a red nation, too, he said.
It must be sealed in Indian fashion.  Each Long Knife chief should shake hands with two Indians.
Such was the Shawnee custom.  Then they would be as brothers.

That struck the Daniel Boone men as something new.  However, they had got in too deep to stick
at trifles, but they smelled a mouse.

"It is good," said Daniel Boone.  His muscles tense, his eyes bright, he stretched out his
hand; he was strong and active, the Hancocks, Colonel Callaway, Squire Boone, Flanders, and
all--they were as stout as buffalo and as quick as panthers; rifle muzzles that rarely missed
were resting upon the port-holes only forty yards to rear, and the gates were open, waiting.

He stretched out his hand; two Indians at once grasped it--clutched his arm--

"Go!" shouted Chief Black Fish, exultant.

Instantly Captain Big Turtle was being dragged forward; other Indians had sprung at him--his
eight comrades were wrestling and reeling--with a twist and a jerk he had flung his captors
sprawling--his comrades had done likewise with theirs and while muskets bellowed and rifles
spat they ran headlong for the gates; got safely in, too, with only Squire Boone wounded; the
gates creaked shut, the bar fell into place, the peace treaty had been broken almost as soon
as made, and Fort Boonesborough was in for a fight.

A deluge of hot lead swept against the walls.  The bullets drummed upon the logs and the palisade,
whined through the port-holes, tore slivers from the roofs.  Urged on by the white men, the
Indians charged under cover of the muskets.  They were bent backward, and broke and fled, leaving
bodies.  With flaming arrows they set fire to a roof; their sharpshooters, in trees, would
keep water from it.  A stripling young man scrambled on top, stood there, seized the buckets
passed up to him, doused the blaze and amidst cheers leaped down again.

Some of the brave women, Jemima Boone and other girls, donned men's clothes and showed themselves
here and there, to deceive the enemy. Jemima was wounded; two of the men were killed.  Somebody,
in the timber, was doing good shooting, with a rifle.

It was the black Indian, Pompey.  He was known to be a crack marksman. They watched for him.
Daniel Boone glimpsed him, high up in a tree; waited for a chance, took quick aim--and down
from the tree crashed Pompey, dead before he struck the turf.  After the siege they found him,
shot through the head by Daniel Boone's long-barreled "Betsy," at a distance of one hundred
and seventy-five yards.

Directed by Captain Chêne, the Black Fish Shawnees started a tunnel, from the river bank, to
under-mine the walls.  The clay that they threw out behind them made the river current muddy,
and the keen eyes in the fort saw and read.

The defense started a counter tunnel, which should meet the other and cut a trench across its
course.  The Indians' tunnel became rain-soaked and caved in; they knew that the fort was digging
also, and after having bored for forty yards, they quit.  Fighting was more to their taste
than burrowing like moles.

More than a week passed, without a let-up day or night.  The powder smoke hung, veiling the
clearing and the edge of the forest, and the surface of the river.  Inside the fort there was
not an idle hand, among the living.  The losses had been very small indeed, in spite of the
hubbub; no one had any notion of surrender, yet.

Then, on the morning of September 20, the sun rose in silence.  After a parting volley the
enemy had gone.  The siege was lifted.

Daniel Boone sent out scouts.  They reported the coast clear.  The gates were opened.  The
corpses of thirty-six Indians and the negro Pompey were awaiting.  How many other bodies and
how many wounded had been carried away was never learned.

One hundred and twenty-five pounds of lead were gathered, inside the fort and outside; nearly
as much more had entered the logs.  That proved the fierceness of the ten days' attack, but
did not pay for the cattle killed or stolen, astray in the timber.

However, this was the last siege of Boonesborough.  The Shawnees gave up hopes of ever getting
their Big Turtle, but they admired him none the less.

[1] See "Boys' Book of Indian Warriors."  Young Simon Kenton--or at present Simon Butler--was
absent, with his friend Montgomery also.

