    P. A personal pronoun                        I
    C. Anger                                     Ire
    S. Cooled with ice                           Iced

    P. Compensation                              Fee
    C. Terror                                    Fear
    S. An entertainment                          Feast

    P. To clothe                                 Indue
    C. To suffer                                 Endure
    S. Persuaded                                 Induced

       *       *       *       *       *

    Brattleborough, Vt.

    DEAR ST. NICHOLAS: I have been trying to start a fresh-water
    aquarium which shall be self-supporting. I have failed, so far,
    because I have been unable to procure the proper oxygen-producing
    plants.

    The little brook-plants I have tried do not answer the purpose. Can
    you tell me where I can find the following plants, or their seeds:
    Vallisneria spiralis (or tape-grass), Callitriche verna (or
    water-starwort), and Anacharis alsinastrum (or
    water-thyme)?--Yours truly,

    E.M.P.

In general terms, the first and third plants named by E.M.P. are to be sought for in very quiet
streams, or in ponds; but, as they are quite submerged, they may escape attention. Callitriche
is to be found floating on the surfaces of small ponds or pools. But perhaps E.M.P. is a little
too far north for Vallisneria. Anacharis is in Canada, and should, by rights, be in Vermont.

However, E.M.P. need not be restricted to these. In quiet fresh-water streams, and especially
in ponds, there are Myriophyllums (or water-milfoil), Ceratophyllums (or hornwort), the aquatic
Ranunculuses, and the Utricularias (or bladderworts), all of which naturally grow submerged
and are quite as good for producing oxygen as those named by E.M.P. Water-cresses will do to
get along with until the other plants can be found.

       *       *       *       *       *

    DEAR ST. NICKOLAS: Daisie and me thought we would rite you a letter,
    and tell you that we did the ansers to some of your puzzles in the
    May number. We did them most all our own self. We are twin-sisters,
    and we are both just as old as each other. We go to skool every day.
    So good by.--From youre little frends,

    DOTTIE AND DAISIE.

    P.S.--We both send our love to your little girls and boys.

       *       *       *       *       *

    New York.

    DEAR ST. NICHOLAS: I thought you might like to know how to press
    flowers. The first thing to do, after you have gathered them, is to
    lay them smoothly between tissue-paper; then you must have felt
    drying-paper to put each side of the tissue-paper. The felt must be
    changed every day. The tissue-paper must not be changed at all, only
    the felt. Then you must have two pieces of smooth board, to put the
    papers between, and a box full of stones for a presser. We used a
    common soap-box, and put in stones to the weight of about
    thirty-five pounds. The handles were made of rope. I have found this
    a splendid way to press flowers, as it absorbs the moisture from the
    flower and does not leave it at all brittle.

    Will you publish this, so that all the little girls who take ST.
    NICHOLAS may have the opportunity of pressing flowers?--and I hope
    they may enjoy it as much as I did.--Your little friend,

    ROSIE S. PALMER.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have received letters in answer to Frank R.M.'s question about an English painter, printed
in the May "Letter-Box," from Carrie Johnson, M.S. Bagley, Alice Lanigan, Lillie M. Sutphen.
Seth K. Humphrey, Hannah I. Powell, Frank R. Bowman, James Hardy Ropes, Grant Beebe, Isabelle
Roorbach, and H.A.M.

