THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, No. 322.] SATURDAY, JULY 12, 1828. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLARENCE TERRACE, REGENT'S PARK.

CLARENCE TERRACE,

REGENT'S PARK.

  O mortal man, who livest here,
  Do not complain of this thy hard estate.

Thomson's Castle of Indolence.

The annexed continuation of our illustrated ramble in the Regent's Park is named Clarence Terrace,
in compliment to the illustrious Lord High Admiral of England. It consists of a centre and
two wings, of the Corinthian order, connected by colonnades of the Ilyssus Ionic order, and
altogether presents a picturesque display of Grecian architecture. The three stories are a
rusticated entrance, or basement; and a Corinthian drawing-room and chamber story; surmounted
with an elegant entablature and balustrade. In the details, the spectator cannot fail to admire
the boldness and richness of the columns supporting the pediment in the centre, and the classic
beauty of the pilasters which decorate the wings.

Clarence Terrace is from the designs of Mr. Decimus Burton, to whose ingenious pencil we are
indebted for some of the splendid architectural combinations in this district. The present
terrace is, we believe, the smallest in the park, but yields to none in picturesque effect
and harmonious design; and the variety of its composition renders it one of the most attractive
illustrations of our series. It is likewise worthy of remark, that this portion of the Regent's
Park, from its natural beauties, is entitled to the first-rate embellishment of art, inasmuch
as the basement of Clarence Terrace commands a "living picture" of extraordinary luxuriance;
and from the drawing-room windows the lake may be seen studded with little islands, and environed
with lawny slopes and unusual park-like vegetation:

  With Nature the creating pencil vies
  With Nature joyous at the mimic strife.

We have already indulged our fancy in anticipations of the future splendour of the Regent's
Park. As yet, art triumphs, and here the lordlings of wealth may enjoy otium cum dignitate:
but in a few years Nature may enable this domain to vie with Daphne of old, and become to London
what Daphne was to Antioch, whose voluptuousness and luxury are perpetuated in history. But
the beginnings of such triumphs furnish more pleasing reflections than their decline.

Clarence Terrace is on the western side of the park, and adjoins Sussex Place, whose cupola
tops were the signals for critical censure and ridicule among the first structures in this
quarter. The artists have, however, profited by the lesson, and the architecture of the Regent's
Park bids fair to rank among the proudest successes of art.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF PARISHES.

(For the Mirror.)

How ancient the division of parishes is, may at present be difficult to ascertain. In some
of the more northern counties these hundreds are called wapentakes. In some counties there
is an intermediate division between the shire and the hundred, as lathes in Kent, and rapes
in Sussex, each of them containing about three or four hundreds a-piece.

J.M. C----D.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANZAS,

(BEING AN INTRODUCTION TO AN INTENDED VERSIFICATION OF ONE OF THE TALES OF BOCCACCIO.)

(For the Mirror.)

  The young, fair Spring, is tripping o'er the Earth,
    With feet that ne'er can know the lag of age;
  The Earth, her lover, conscious of her worth,
    Flings down all his rich treasures to engage
  That blushing wanderer: but she journeys forth
    Heedless of all his offerings. The hot rage
  Of love shall scorch his heart in tortures fell,
  Till Winter comes with many an icicle.

  That loved-one yet is here; and flowers, and songs,
    And streams--to gush above her own free feet
  Of stainless ivory,--and countless throngs
    Of birds are living, her pure soul to greet.
  And the lone spirit, thoughtfully that longs
    For a dim view of Eden, from a seat
  O'erhanging some green valley, now espies
  Nought that might dread compare with Paradise!

  There is a glory gone forth from on high!--
    It quickens the heart's beat, whereon it flings
  Its fervour;--the flushed cheek and glowing eye
    Confess its influence;--and the many strings,
  Voiceless too long in the young heart, reply
    To the mute promptings of a thousand things
  Which Spring has conjured up;--all, all is hers--
  That Glory without name--she ministers.

  Now--all the thoughts she wakens in the heart
    Are glorious Music!--divine Poesy!--
  Now--all the dreams on Fancy's eyes that start,
    She will disown not, wayward though they be.
  Sweet Dreams!--down Lethe's billow they depart--
    Words are too weak to clothe them worthily.
  Rich incense, burnt upon some altar stone
  Censerless,--in a temple--desert--lone!

  What shall we do in these delightful days,
    When the full, bounding heart, will not be still;--
  When the glad eye, absorbed in far-sent gaze,
    Forgets Earth's plenitude of grief and ill;--
  Shall we dream on, in a bewitching maze
    Of sweet affections and bold hopes, until
  Earth is not Earth--but Heaven? or shall we die
  Hourly, to some "dissolving minstrelsy?"

  Sometimes, when day is dying--when twilight
    Brings its dim Vigil,--hour of quietness,--
  'Tis sweet to listen, till the cheated sight
    Pictures strange shadowings of awfulness,--
  Some wild, old tale of goblin's ghastly spite,
    Or antique strain of passionate distress;--
  And one, which has been wept o'er many a time
  I seek, to mar, perchance, with feeble rhyme

May, 1828.

THOMAS M----s.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXECUTION AND LAST MOMENTS OF LORD WILLIAM RUSSEL.

(For the Mirror.)

This distinguished patriot and martyr to the cause of liberty was the third son of William,
the first Duke of Bedford, by a daughter of the Earl of Somerset. He refused the generous offer
of Lord Cavendish to favour his escape, by changing clothes with him in prison; and he also
declined the Duke of Monmouth's proposal to surrender himself, should Lord William Russel think
it might contribute to his safety. "It will be no advantage to me," he said, "to have my friends
die with me." Conjugal affection was the feeling that clung to his heart; and when he had taken
his last farewell of his wife, he said, "The bitterness of death is now over." He suffered
the sentences of his judges with resignation and composure. A little before the sheriffs conducted
him to the scaffold, he wound up his watch. "Now I have done," said he, "with time, and henceforth
must think solely of eternity." The sad tragedy of the death of the virtuous Lord Russel, (says
Pennant,) who lost his head in the middle of Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, took place on July 21st,
1683. Party writers assert that he was brought here in preference to any other spot, in order
to mortify the citizens with the sight. In fact, it was the nearest open space to Newgate,
the place of his lordship's confinement. He was, at the time of his death, only forty-two years
of age. To his character for probity, sincerity, and private worth, even the enemies to his
public principles bear testimony. At Woburn Abbey is preserved, in gold letters, the speech
of Lord Russel to the sheriffs, together with the paper delivered by his lordship to them at
the place of execution.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEPENDENCE OF PORTUGAL.

(For the Mirror.)

Portugal was first created into a monarchy on the 27th of July, 1139; on which day, Dom Alphonso
I., son of Henry, Count of Burgundy, the son of Robert, king of France, was proclaimed at Lisbon,
after having vanquished and slain five Moorish kings in the battle of Campo d'Ourique, where
he was unanimously chosen as sovereign of Portugal by his army. This dignity was confirmed
to him by the first assembly of the states-general at Lamego. In commemoration of this event,
the Portuguese arms bear five standards and five escudets.[1] After the unfortunate expedition
of Dom Sebastian I. to Africa, where he was slain in the battle of Alcazar, the crown devolved
upon his great uncle, the Cardinal Dom Henry, a man of 67 years of age, and who reigned but
17 months. At his death there were several claimants for the succession, and the kingdom in
consequence became the theatre of civil war. Philip II. of Spain, the most powerful of these,
sent an army, under the Duke of Alba, into Portugal, and completed the conquest of the country
with little opposition. This event took place in the year 1580, and the kingdom of Portugal
remained under the dominion of Spain until the 1st of December, 1649, the day on which the
Duke of Braganza was proclaimed king with the title of Dom Joao IV. Since that time Portugal
has maintained its independence. For a more detailed account, see L'Abbé Nertot's "Revolutions
of Portugal."

    [Footnote 1: See Succession Chronologica de los Reyes de Portugal.]

C.V., A CONSTANT READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT EARTHQUAKE IN COLOMBIA.

(Communicated by a Correspondent to Brande's Journal.)

On the 16th of November, 1827, at a quarter past six o'clock in the evening, the inhabitants
of Bogota, in Colombia, were thrown into the greatest consternation and alarm by the severest
shock of an earthquake which has ever been known to visit that city.

At the moment of its occurrence, a subterraneous noise was very distinctly heard, resembling
the noise of a carriage passing briskly over the pavement, and a white, thin, transparent cloud
was seen to hang over the city; this cloud has been noticed in Italy, as generally, if not
always, present, near the volcanic commotions of that country, previously, and at the time
of these commotions. This cloud is entirely unlike any other which I have ever noticed, and
resembles a thin gauze veil. I noticed it not only upon this occasion, but also in the earthquake
of June 17th, 1826, in this city.[2]

[Footnote 2: If I may be allowed to offer a conjecture on the cause of this singular white
veil, or cloud, I can only attribute it to the vapour of water which escapes from the earth
from the heated mass below, and which is condensed on rising into the cold air, and thus rendered
visible. Bogota, according to my measurement, which corresponds very nearly with that of Baron
Humboldt, is 9,600 feet above the level of the sea, and is distant at least one hundred miles
from any known volcano.]

The earthquake took a direction from S.E. to N.W., in which it could plainly be traced by the
havoc which it made. Its effects on the city were partial in the above direction, but every
part was convulsed.

The confusion and affliction which such a calamity occasions, particularly in a catholic country,
can neither be imagined, nor described. I was sitting reading in a small house of one story
above the ground-floor, when the trembling commenced; the table on which my book lay, first
shook, and almost at the same instant the chair on which I sat; I immediately got on my legs,
but found much difficulty in sustaining myself without holding by some fixture; the house all
this time rocking to and fro as in a hurricane, but not a breath of air stirred. After passing
ten or more seconds in this way, I collected my reason sufficiently to run down the steps into
the street; all this time the earth was in motion. When I arrived at the portal of the door,
I found it impossible to stand without holding very tight by the doorway, and many persons
fell on their faces. During these moments, part of the house adjoining mine fell with a terrible
crash, and the street was filled with a cloud of dust, out of which emerged a man distorted
with horror, but who had almost miraculously escaped immolation, without any other hurt than
what his fright had occasioned. After continuing a minute or more, the trembling ceased, and
nothing could now be heard but the cries of the people; with that exception all was still and
silent, and the stars appeared with all their brilliancy, as if smiling at this scene of human
distress. Some persons asserted, that there were two distinct shocks, but I must confess I
felt the earth in motion during the whole period of a minute or more; and being situated over
the direction which the earthquake took, was therefore, better able to judge of this than others
who were more distant, and particularly as I retained my presence of mind. Fortunately for
me my house was well built, for had it fallen I should inevitably have been buried in the ruins.
To describe the scene which ensued is difficult; the streets were filled with despair; some
entirely and others half naked were seen on their knees imploring divine protection; no one
knew what to do or where to fly, for all were in the same consternation and distress. After
this had a little subsided, the city became soon deserted, and a fresh scene presented itself;
all those who had horses were seen scampering through the streets towards the plain, to elude
the terror of another shock; others on foot with their beds on their backs; and the sick, wrapped
up in blankets, were conveyed in arm-chairs, with two sticks passed underneath them to form
sedan-chairs, and some were conveyed in hammocks. This afflicting sight, accompanied by the
cries of the distressed and the melancholy chant of their progress, was painful in the extreme;
and hard, indeed, must be that heart who could view it with indifference; yet such was the
apathy occasioned by terror, that scarcely any one offered assistance to his neighbour, and
frequently neglected his own safety. When all was quiet I went out to examine the city. The
first thing which attracted my notice was the turret of the stately cathedral partly demolished,
and the building split and cracked in various places; the precious stones, consisting of diamonds,
emeralds, and topazes, which adorned the interior, were scattered in all directions, and many
of them broken, particularly a very large emerald weighing some ounces. This edifice had but
just been repaired from the effects of the earthquake in the preceding year, and was, by this
last, reduced to a tattered ruin. In all the streets which ran in the direction of N.W. and
S.E., many houses were "levelled with the dust," and others "rent in twain;" and some of the
unfortunate inhabitants buried beneath their ruins. In all, fourteen persons have lost their
lives; and the damage done to the city is estimated to be at least six millions of dollars,
although it did not contain a larger population than 30,000 souls. Deserted streets, heaps
of ruins, and tottering houses, threatening to crush the beholder, give but a faint idea of
this desolate picture. General Soublette and General Bolivar were both present at the last
fatal earthquake in Caraccas, and they both assert that this, of which I have now given a description,
was at least as powerful, although the suffering in the town of Caraccas was much greater;
and they attribute the happy escape of thousands of lives to the difference in the construction
of houses in the two places. General Bolivar, as well as myself and others, were affected with
sickness at the stomach after the shock. During the night of the earthquake in Bogota, on the
16th of November, 1827, tremulous motions of the earth were continually felt, and the following
day, and every other since; and even whilst I am now writing, slight undulating motions are
perceptible.

Every person is still in the greatest alarm, dreading a second severe shock, which happened
last year at the distance of four days from the first grand shock; should this happen now,
scarcely one stone will remain upon another in Bogota.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DRAUGHTSMAN;[3] OR, HINTS ON LANDSCAPE PAINTING.

[Footnote 3: Vide MIRROR, vol. iv. pp 2, 22, 61, 102.]

OBSERVATIONS ON, AND RULES FOR, SKETCHING.

The following hints, tending to further the tyro's progress in the delightful art of drawing,
will not I trust prove unacceptable to such of your readers as are interested in the subject.
For my own use I epitomized various directions relative to sketching, when I met with them
in Gilpin's "Three Essays on Picturesque Beauty," and I shall feel particularly happy should
my attempt at condensing much artistical matter from that interesting volume prove useful to
the amateur: the professor undergoes a regular, severe, but essential course of study in that
beautiful art, which is to purchase for him fame and emolument; but he who takes up his pencil
merely for pastime, will do well to regulate its movements by a few rules, not cumbrous to
the memory, and of easy application.--It is my intention briefly to state the object of Gilpin's
first and second essays; from the third I have deduced those rules for sketching which appeared
most obviously to result from the tenour of his observations:--

Essay 1st discusses the difference between actual and picturesque beauty; smoothness is usually
allowed to enter into our ideas of the former, but roughness, or ruggedness is decidedly essential
to the latter: for example--The smooth shaven lawn, the neatly turned walk, the classic marble
portico, &c. &c. are beautiful; but the ruined castle, the chasmed mountain, the tempestuous
ocean, &c. are picturesque, i.e. with appropriate accompaniments; for, after remarking that
the sublime and beautiful are, with many persons, the divisions of the picturesque, our acute
observer of nature adds, "sublimity alone cannot make an object picturesque," it must in form,
colour, or accompaniment, have some degree of beauty to render the epithet just. "Nothing can
be more sublime than the ocean, but wholly unaccompanied it has little of the picturesque."
It should also be remembered that objects of rough and careless contour, as the worn cart-horse,
and the tattered beggar (neither of them laying claim to an iota of sublimity) please better
in a painting, than the sleekest racer, and the most finished belle of the Magazin des Modes.[4]

[Footnote 4: It is singular, but almost true to an axiom, that objects capable of exciting
disgust in their reality, confer delight in their pictorial representation; the interior of
some wretched hovel, a sty and its inmates, and a boorish revel, will exemplify this. Our pleasure
in that case arises perhaps not from the objects represented, but from the truth of the representation.
I know not that this paradox has ever been solved, and therefore with diffidence offer, that
we are rather pleased with the artist than his subject.]

Essay 2nd treats of travelling, as far as it regards the picturesque, which is to be sought
in natural, and sometimes artificial, objects; these will constantly present themselves to
the observer under all the varieties of light and shadow, and the different combinations of
colour, form, and accompaniment, sometimes producing whole landscapes, but more frequently
only beautiful parts of scenery. The curious and fantastic forms of nature are not subjects
for the pencil,--and the draughtsman will endeavour to depict animate as well as inanimate
objects. The utility and amusement of travelling, are also considered in this essay, and hints
thrown out for the improvement of barren and disagreeable country, by the observation of lights
and shadows, tints of the season, distances, &c., with a recommendation to supply, if possible,
every hiatus of nature, by the imagination of all that is needed to render her perfectly picturesque.
(An ingenious idea; but, alas! mountains will not always rise in a marsh, forests wave over
a sterile heath, nor lakes and rivers adorn a wheat-field. This essay, however, is worthy the
perusal of travellers even, who never touched a pencil.)

Essay 3rd treats of sketching from nature from whence are deduced the following

Rules.

1. Every landscape should have a leading subject; a rule too much neglected even by superior
artists.

2. Get the object, or subject you design to copy, into the best point of view.

3. Landscape consists of three general parts:--fore-ground, middle or second-ground, and distance;
in sketching foreground, it is a good rule to have some part of it higher than the rest of
the picture. (Vide Rule the 7th.)

4. Mark the principal parts, (or points) of your landscape on paper, that you may more readily
ascertain the relative distances and situations of the others.

5. Pay attention to the character of your subject; mingle not trivial with grand details.

6. One landscape must not be crowded with circumstances sufficient for two or more.

7. It is sufficient to give the principal feature of what you essay to represent; as a castle,
abbey, bridge, &c.; but its accompaniments may (and to make a picture, should) be often different.
The fore-ground of a drawing must be the artist's own; and it should be ample, since an extended
distance, and a narrow fore-ground is always awkward and bad in a picture--N.B. Taste and observation
will direct the student to select for his fore-ground, clusters of trees, pieces of rock, or
the fragments of ruined fabrics, &c., according to the nature of his subject.

8. On the accurate observation of distances the beauty of landscape depends; be careful therefore
to get them correct at your outset, and to keep them so, by shading lightly with pen or brush
your black-lead sketch, (should the parts be complicated,) whilst the view is before you, or
fresh in your memory.

9. The hand should be accustomed to the touch of various kinds of trees, though in a mere sketch,
little variety is required; the distinction, however, between full foliaged, and straggling,
branchy trees must be preserved, for both are necessary even in a sketch, and the artist should
therefore be prepared to represent them.

10. The artist must attend to the composition, and the disposition of his subject. By the composition
may be understood the objects with which he composes his view; by the disposition, their picturesque
and tasteful arrangement.

11. Figures, must be such as are appropriate to the scene; thus, history in miniature is bad,
because a landscape is in itself a subject sufficient for the employment both of pencil and
eye; therefore historical figures in a view, are lost and out of place.

12. Birds may be introduced with good effect, if thrown into proper distance; to represent
them near is absurd: ruins and sea views are the best subjects in which they can appear.

13. Effect is to be produced best, by strong contrasts of light and shade both in earth and
sky; but the student's taste must determine where these shall fall, and though the contrasts
should be strong, yet gradation, in both, must be observed.

14. A predominancy of shade has the best effect; and light, though it should not be scattered,
must not be drawn, as it were, into one focus.

15. The light, in a picture, is best disposed when the fore-ground is in shadow, and it falls
in the middle; but this rule is subject to many variations. Light should rarely be spread on
the distance.[5]

[Footnote 5: Extraordinary and beautiful effects, however, are, by superior painters, frequently
produced by violating this latter rule. The writer would particularly notice the results of
light thrown into the distance, in stormy sea-views.]

16. It is useful to know, that the shadows of morning are darker than those of evening; also,
that when objects are in shadow, their light (as it is then a reflected light,) falls on the
opposite side to that on which it would come if they were enlightened.

17. The harmony of the whole should be studied; if the piece strikes you as defective in this
respect, place it at evening in some situation where it will not be reached by a strong light,
when the misplaced lights and shadows will strike you more forcibly than in the glare of day.

18. To stain your paper with a slight reddish or yellowish tint, adds to the harmony of a sketch,
yet it is a mere matter of taste; but, when it is desired, it had better be done after the
drawing is completed, otherwise the colour risks looking patched from the rubber.[6]

[Footnote 6: Coffee has been recommended for this purpose, but delicate and pleasing washes
or glazings may be produced from burnt sienna, yellow ochre, burnt umbre, and lake, in various
combinations, and laid on extremely attenuated by water.]

19. In colouring, the sky gives the ruling tint to the landscape; it is absurd to unite a noonday
sky, with a landscape of sunset glow.

20. From the three virgin colours, red, blue, and yellow, all the tints of nature are composed.[7]
There is not in nature a perfect white, except snow, and the petals of some flowers.

[Footnote 7: The artist, however, cannot produce his tints from those simple colours entirely,
but the advice once given to the writer, by a painter, was:--"Never fancy that many colours
will effect your object; a few well chosen will better succeed, and be more easily managed;
half-a-dozen would, for me, answer every purpose." The student is warned against gaudy colouring,
which, if allowable in caricatures seen elsewhere, reminds one of pedlar's pictures.]

21. Sketch nothing but what you can adorn, (for the purpose of showing to friends, &c.) but
do not adorn your first, or rough sketch; make another, and refer to your original draught,
as you would do to the view itself, for it contains your general ideas--your first and freshest,
which may be lost by endeavouring to refine and improve upon them in the original sketch.[8]

[Footnote 8: The old masters are well known to have made carefully many sketches of the subjects
they designed for pictures, ere they dreamt of painting compositions that were to last for ever.]

22. In adorning your sketch, figures, both animate and inanimate, may be introduced, but sparingly;
touch them slightly, for an attempt at finish offends.

I shall take the liberty of adding--endeavour to get a free and flowing outline; be not too
minute either in detail or finishing; use pen or brush for your rough sketch in preference
to pencil; you will gain confidence, and correctness will be your aim in your adorned copy.
Finally, study nature, art, and good writers.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--I have made repeated visits this season to the exhibition of the works of the old masters
at the British Institution, for the express purpose of presenting you with a few remarks on
some of the most excellent paintings. As I have strictly adhered to the notes which I made
at the institution, the accuracy of the subjoined may be depended upon:--

BRITISH INSTITUTION.

The present exhibition consists of the works of the Italian, Spanish, Flemish, and Dutch masters.
There are one hundred and ninety pictures, which have chiefly been contributed to the institution
by his Majesty and the nobility.

No. 5, Innocent the Tenth, by Velasquez, is an uncommon fine portrait; it is very boldly executed,
combining at the same time a sufficient degree of finish and great beauty of colour. His holiness
is represented in quite a plain habit. The beauties of Guido's pencil will be traced in No.
6, Hippomenes and Atalanta. Claude, in his Embarkation of St. Paul; Sea Port, Evening, &c.,
charms us with his exquisite effects, which are so truly natural, that, while we view his representations,
we may almost fancy ourselves transported to the magnificent scenery of Italy. In No. 42, Titian's
Daughter, are seen the genuine tints adopted by the Venetian school of painting. No. 56, St.
Appolonia, by Sebastian del Piombo, is a most admirable specimen of the master. No. 74, Landscape
and Cattle, by Paul Potter, contains all that beauty of touch and delicacy of colour which
render this famous artist so difficult to imitate. There are several very capital pictures
by the younger Teniers; No. 77, his own portrait, and No. 95, portrait of the painter and his
son, are truly excellent; as is No. 94, Figures playing at Bowls. A remarkable and very forcible
effect is found in No. 93, The outside of a House with Figures--painted by De Hooge. Nos. 121
and 123, Flowers and Fruit, by the celebrated Van Huysum, are extremely elaborate in their
execution. No. 161, The Battle between Constantine and Maxentius, is a sketch by Rubens, possessing
wonderful fire and spirit, as well as great mellowness of colour.

Besides the above pictures, there are many beautiful productions by Jan Steen, Cuyp, Poussin,
Salvator Rosa, Guercino, Domenichino, Murillo, Albano, Vandyke, Ruysdael, Houdekoeter, Wouvermans,
&c.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT ROMAN FESTIVALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

JULY.

The Caprotinia, or feasts of Juno Caprotina, were celebrated on the 9th of July, in favour
of the female slaves. During this solemnity they ran about, beating themselves with their fists
and with rods. None but women assisted in the sacrifices offered at this feast. Kennet says,
the origin of this feast, or the famous Nonae Caprotinae, or Poplifugium, is doubly related
by Plutarch, according to the two common opinions. First, because Romulus disappeared on that
day, when an assembly being held in the Palus Capreae, or Goats'-Marsh, on a sudden happened
a most wonderful tempest, accompanied with terrible thunder, and other unusual disorders in
the air. The common people fled all away to secure themselves; but, after the tempest was over,
could never find their king. Or, else, from Caprificus, a wild fig-tree, because, in the Gallic
war, a Roman virgin, who was prisoner in the enemy's camp, got up into a wild fig-tree, and
holding out a lighted torch toward the city, gave the Romans a signal to fall on; which they
did with such good success, as to obtain a considerable victory.

The Lucaria was an ancient feast, solemnized in the woods, where the Romans, defeated and pursued
by the Gauls, retired and concealed themselves; it was held, on the 19th of July, in a wood,
between the Tyber and the road called Via Salaria.

The feast of Neptunalia was held on the 23rd of July, in honour of Neptune.

The Furinalia were feasts instituted in honour of Furina, the goddess of robbers among the
Romans; they took place on the 25th of July. This goddess had a temple at Rome, and was served
by a particular priest, who was one of the fifteen Flamens.[9] Near the temple there was a
sacred wood, in which Caius Gracchus was killed. Cicero takes her to be the same as one of
the Furies.

[Footnote 9: Flamen, among the ancient Romans, was a priest or minister of sacrifice.]

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN POPANILLA'S VOYAGE.

Who has not read Vivian Grey, in five broad-margined volumes, with space enough between each
line to allow the indulgence of a nap, when the poppy of the author predominated? Affectation,
foppery, and conceit, have protracted the memoirs of this renowned personage to such an extent;
but in spite of all that unfashionable critics have said, Vivian Grey has just produced a volume
under the title of the Voyage of Captain Popanilla, with as much of the aforesaid qualities
as the most listless drawing-room or boudoir reader could require. Nevertheless, "the voyage"
has many touches of wit, humour, and caustic satire, and it has the soul and characteristic
of wit--brevity; for we read the volume in little more than an hour; and, although Vivian may
regard our analysis of his voyage like showing the sun with a lantern, we are disposed to venture
upon the task for the gratification of our readers.

To say that Popanilla resembles Swift's "Tale of a Tub," or Sir Thomas More's "Utopia," would
be an advantageous comparison for our modern voyager, but it would not sufficiently illustrate
the character of his work, since the latter books are so much less read than talked of. Swift
wrote "for the universal improvement of mankind," but Popanilla publishes for the benefit of
the people of England, whom he represents as living in a too artificial state. This favoured
spot he calls the Isle of Fantaisie, about the shores of which appears a remarkable fish, or
rather a ship, to the no small terror of the islanders. What a pity that such an amiable fellow
should have got into such a scrape!"

Instead of the dear lock, Popanilla finds a chest saved from the wreck, and filled with "Useful
Knowledge Tracts," books on "the Hamiltonian system," &c. which our adventurer, like Faustus
and his bible, turns to bad account; he falls asleep, is swallowed by a whale, and spouted
forth again. So much for the first steps of "intellect;" now for the "march." Popanilla soon
becomes a man of science: his wit flies off in tangents, and he tries to prove his sovereign
a lantern, and himself a sun,[10] by undertaking to re-shape all the institutions of Fantaisie.
Here, observing a smile upon his majesty's countenance, Popanilla tells the king that he is
only a chief magistrate, and he has no more right to laugh at him than a constable. This is
"too bad" for the royal mind; Popanilla is cut; rather crest-fallen, he sneaks home, and consoles
himself for having nobody to speak to, by reading some very amusing "Conversations on Political
Economy." But he sinks to rise again. "Unhappy Popanilla! and all from that unlucky lock of
hair!" His fright is ludicrously sketched. "Poor fellow! how could he know better? He certainly
had enjoyed a seat at the Admiralty Board of Fantaisie, but then he was a lay-lord." Among
his discoveries, on the second day, at 25 m. past 3 p.m., though at a considerable distance,
he saw a mountain and an island: he called the first Alligator Mountain, in gratitude to the
pears; and christened the second after his mistress; but the happy discoverer further found
the mountain to be a mist, and the island a sea-weed. On his landing he is pestered with questions
from the natives; but, thanks to the Hamiltonian system, "Popanilla, under these circumstances,
was more loquacious than could have been Capt. Parry." He announces himself as the "most injured
of human beings;" the women weep, the men shake hands with him, and all the boys huzza: he
then narrates his ill-fortunes at Fantaisie, not forgetting the never-enough-to-be-lamented
lock of hair. "He provides himself with a purse, and exchanges his money with a banker, who
offers him during his stay in Vraibleusia, the use of a couple of equipages, a villa, an opera
box; insists upon sending to his hotel some pineapples and very rare wine; and gives him a
perpetual ticket to his picture-gallery." Popanilla leaves his gold and takes the banker's
pink shells, for "no genteel person has ever anything else in his pocket."

[Footnote 10: "What boots it thee to call thyself a sun."]

Our traveller being now settled at a splendid hotel in Hubbabub, Skindeep, his "gentleman in
black," drives him about the city in an elegant equipage. The western migrations of fashion
are humorously sketched, and the architecture of our metropolis comes in for a share of the
author's banter. This is a stale affair; but Popanilla's drinking a dozen of the bookseller's
wine smacks more of novelty. His voyage is published, and contains a detailed account of every
thing which took place during the whole of the three days, forming a quarto volume! The hostess
too declares it "impossible for mankind ever to be happy and great, until, like herself and
her friends," her company are "all soul!"

Popanilla is now constituted ambassador from Fantaisie, and goes through all the courtly scenes
of diplomacy, for which we have not room; but their gist will be readily understood among the
stars of St. James's, especially the authors allusions to Navarino and the late ministry, which
are in good set terms. The "Aboriginal," too, tells Popanilla "some long stories about a person
who was chief manager, about five hundred years ago, to whom he said he was indebted for all
his political principles."

During Popanilla's sight-seeing career, he, of course, visits our theatres, and a tolerably
broad caricature he gives of them. In one morning's lionizing, too, he acquires "a general
knowledge of the chief arts and sciences, eats three hundred sandwiches, and tastes as many
bottles of sherry."

The frauds and fooleries of the joint stock company mania are, perhaps, among the least successful
portion of the volume. The "literature" is somewhat better, as the establishment of a "Society
for the Diffusion of Fashionable Knowledge"--its first treatise, Nonchalance--dissertations
"on leaving cards," "cutting friends," "on bores," &c.--and a new novel called "Burlington"--the
last a scratch at Popanilla's publisher. The "Clubs" are next recommended for those fond of
solitude, and their satin luxuries humorously quizzed; but "the Colonial System," which follows,
has more causticity. Popanilla, like all other great foreigners who visit England, falls ill;
his disorder is "unquestionably nervous;" he is to count five between each word he utters,
never ask questions, and avoid society, and only dine out once a day. This regimen brings on
a slow fever; but his disorder is neither "liver," nor "nervous," but "mind." He next falls
in with an Essay on Fruit, from which he learns that thousands of the Vraibleusians are dying
with dyspepsia from eating pine-apples, which are denounced as "stupid, sour, and vulgar."

Popanilla is ordered by his physician to Blunderland, where the women are "angelic," and the
men "the most light-hearted, merry, obliging, entertaining fellows;" and where "instead of
knives and forks being laid for the guests at dinner, the plates are flanked by daggers and
pistols." A "row" springs up; "all the guests lay lifeless about the room;" "Popanilla rang
the bell, and the waiters swept away the dead bodies, and brought him a roasted potato for
supper." He next enjoys the pleasures of the chase, and in revenge for a sharp fire, "burns
two villages, slays 2 or 300 head of women, and bags children without number;" and in the evening
Popanilla's powers of digestion are improved. He now returns to Vraibleusia, where all are
panic-struck, and his friend, the banker, unlike his "perpetual ticket," has stopped payment,
and all our traveller's resources. Popanilla consoles him with the joke that "things were not
quite so bad as they appeared," till they get worse, by two gentlemen in blue, with red waistcoats,
arresting the ambassador for high treason. This completes his "amusements." "Flummery-Flammism
triumphs, and every person, from the managers down to the chalk-chewing mechanics, attend lectures
on that enlightening science." This flummery is too much; but every body with whom Popanilla
had conversed while in Vraibleusia is subpoenaed against him: the judge is about to sum up,
when a trumpet sounds, and a government messenger presents a scroll, and informs him, that
a remarkably clever young man, recently appointed one of the managers, had last night consolidated
all the edicts into a single act. The judge then compliments the young consolidator, compared
to whom, he said, Justinian was a country attorney. Popanilla is found "not guilty, and kicked
out of court, amidst the hootings of the mob, without a stain upon his reputation." He then
falls senseless on the steps of the Asiatic club-house, is recovered by the smell of mulligatawney
soup, and moralizes till he perceives "it is possible for a nation to exist in too artificial
a state." He then sees the opposite house lit up, and the words "Emigration Committee" written
on a transparent blind. He enters, finds the last Emigration squadron is about to sail in a
few minutes; is presented with a spade, blanket, and hard biscuit, and quits the port of Hubbabub:
what became of him will "probably be discovered, if ever we obtain 'Popanilla's' second voyage"--and
thus shuts to the scene.

Here, gentle reader, you have the Captain's fun and badinage on all the wonderful wonders of
Hubbabub--videlicet this wonderful town. They may serve to while away some of the ennui of
this season of roast, bake, and broil, or be read aloud during the halt of the "march of intellect"
men. There are the principal incidents of his voyage; if you wish to see them expanded, consult
the book itself--that is if you are gratified with our abstract--if the reverse, let well alone,
lest you find it, like ceremony, "a penny-worth of spirit in a glass of water." But recollect,
Popanilla's adventures have already been published in quarto.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Machine for Sharpening Knives at once,

Consists of a number of steel cylinders grooved transversely, and placed on two revolving axes
parallel to each other, and so that the bosses and recesses of the one fit into those of the
other cylinder. Along these the knife is drawn, and so is immediately sharpened.--London Jour.
of Arts.

Influence of Electricity on the developement of Seeds.

M. Astier has discovered that seeds which are electrified, run through the first stages of
vegetation more rapidly than others, and that China roses submitted to this experiment, produce
flowers sooner, and in greater abundance.--From the French.

Botany.

The number of different species of plants which have been described is about 50,000; but botanists
are generally agreed that probably as many still remain undescribed; and, that the number of
vegetable species on the surface of the earth ought not to be estimated under 100,000. We may
be struck at the amount of this number; but our astonishment abates when we find that our own
island, which is but a mere misty speck, compared with those broad zones of sunshine, "where
the flowers ever brighten," contains about 1,500 native flowering plants. Of those which have
been described, about 8,000, or nearly one-sixth, belong to the first of the two classes, and
of these nearly 2,000 are grasses. In cold and temperate climates the species of this most
interesting and important family are comparatively diminutive in size. In our climate, for
instance, the grasses are somewhat remarkable among vegetables for their humble stature, and
their inconspicuous appearance; while in the warmer regions of the earth, the bamboos and canes,
which are species of the same family, emulate trees in height and beauty. But what our species
want in individual magnitude, is far more than compensated by the comparative vastness of the
number of individuals. In tropical climates, one plant may be seen here, and another there,
which, in their size, astonish an European, when he is told that they belong to the family
of the grasses; but there he would search in vain for those swards of grass, and green meadows,
with which almost the whole aspect of his own climate is verdant. He might find one plant stately
enough to shade him from the torrid sun, and to harbour among its boughs many a tropical bird
with its bright metallic plumage; but he could not find a lea covered with lowing herds, or
with bleating flocks, on the soft sward of which he could lie down, and listen to the lark
that sings to him from heaven, sending down its clear notes on the first sunbeams of spring.
It is in temperate climates--in those regions where man has made the greatest advances in civilization--where
the comforts and conveniences of this life are most numerous around him--and the realities
of that which is to come are most brightly seen above him--that this family of plants exists
in greatest economic value. It is one of the most important in every climate; for it is from
one species of grass or other that the present numbers of men, as well as the domestic animals
that serve him, derive their sustenance. The maize or Indian corn of the west; the rice of
the east; the wheat and other grains of the north; equally belong to this tribe of plants.--Quar.
Jour. of Agriculture

Blight in Fruit Trees.

Whenever you see the branch of a tree blighted, or eaten by insects, procure a shoemaker's
awl, and pierce the lower extremity of the branch into the wood; then pour in two or three
drops of crude mercury, (which is the quicksilver in common use) and stop up the hole with
a small stick. In about forty-eight hours, the insects, not only upon that branch, but upon
all the rest of the tree, will be destroyed, and the blights will immediately cease.

G.W.N.

On the Live Stock of Britain, France, &c.

Dupin, in a work lately published, with a view to promote the numbers and breeds of the live
stock of France, states, that, in Britain, the animal power is eleven times as great as the
manual power; while in France it is only four times as great; hence, French labourers receive
from animals only a third part of the aid yielded by them in Britain. He also states, that
Great Britain consumes three times as much meat, milk, and cheese, as France. The following
is the number of horses for every 1,000 inhabitants in the countries mentioned. Hanover, 193;
Sweden, 145; Canton de Vaud, (in Switzerland,) 140; Great Britain, 100; Prussia, (six provinces)
95; France, 79. Numbers, however, give a very imperfect idea of the relative amount of horse
power, the breeds being so various in the different countries.

Supposed Nervous System in Plants.

M. Dutrochet, in a volume on the moving powers which act in organized bodies, affirms, that
there are seen on the walls of the cellular and fibrous tissue of vegetables, small semi-transparent
globular bodies and linear bodies, which become opaque from the action of acids, and are rendered
transparent by that of alkalies. He considers these small bodies as the elements of a diffused
nervous system, to the action of which he ascribes the movements of plants, arising from what
is denominated by him the nervomotility.--From the French.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MARRIAGE LESSON.

[We are indebted to the last Number (4) of the Foreign Quarterly Review for the following lively
nouvelette, from the Conde Lucanor of the Infante Don Juan Manuel, written in the beginning
of the fourteenth century. It has much of the naïvete and light humour peculiar to the Spanish
novelists, and, to quote the ingenious reviewer, "besides its own merit, possesses that of
some striking resemblances to Shakspeare's Taming of the Shrew."]

In a certain town there lived a noble Moor, who had one son, the best young man ever known
perhaps in the world. He was not, however, wealthy enough to enable him to accomplish half
the many laudable objects which his heart prompted him to undertake; and for this reason he
was in great perplexity, having the will and not the power. Now in that same town dwelt another
Moor, far more honoured and rich than the youth's father, and he too had an only daughter,
who offered a strange contrast to this excellent young man, her manners being as violent and
bad as his were good and pleasing, insomuch that no man liked to think of an union with such
an infuriate shrew.

Now that good youth one day came to his father, and said, "Father, I am well assured that you
are not rich enough to support me according to what I conceive becoming and honourable. It
will, therefore, be incumbent upon me to lead a mean and indolent life, or to quit the country;
so that if it seem good unto you, I should prefer for the best to form some marriage alliance,
by which I may be enabled to open myself a way to higher things." And the father replied, that
it would please him well if his son should be enabled to marry according to his wishes. He
then said to his father, that if he thought he should be able to manage it, he should be happy
to have the only daughter of that good man given him in marriage. Hearing this, the father
was much surprised, and answered, that as he understood the matter, there was not a single
man whom he knew, how poor soever he might be, who would consent to marry such a vixen. And
his son replied, that he asked it as a particular favour that he would bring about this marriage,
and so far insisted, that however strange he thought the request, his father gave his consent.
In consequence, he went directly to seek the good man, with whom he was on the most friendly
terms, and having acquainted him with all that had passed, begged that he would be pleased
to bestow his daughter's hand upon his son, who had courage enough to marry her. Now when the
good man heard this proposal from the lips of his best friend, he said to him:--"Good God,
my friend, if I were to do any such thing, I should serve you a very bad turn; for you possess
an excellent son, and it would be a great piece of treachery on my part, if I were to consent
to make him so unfortunate, and become accessory to his death. Nay I may say worse than death,
for better would it be for him to be dead than to be married to my daughter! And you must not
think that I say thus much to oppose your wishes; for as to that matter, I should be well pleased
to give her to your son, or to any body's son, who would be foolish enough to rid my house
of her." To this his friend replied, that he felt very sensibly the kind motives which led
him to speak thus; and intreated that, as his son seemed so bent upon the match, he would be
pleased to give the lady in marriage. He agreed, and accordingly the ceremony took place. The
bride was brought to her husband's house, and it being a custom with the Moors to give the
betrothed a supper and to set out the feast for them, and then to take leave and return to
visit them on the ensuing day, the ceremony was performed accordingly. However, the fathers
and mothers, and all the relations of the bride and bridegroom went away with many misgivings,
fearing that when they returned the ensuing day they should either find the young man dead,
or in some very bad plight indeed.

So it came to pass, that as soon as the young people were left alone, they seated themselves
at the table, and before the dreaded bride had time to open her lips, the bridegroom, looking
behind him, saw stationed there his favourite mastiff dog, and he said to him somewhat sharply,
"Mr. Mastiff, bring us some water for our hands;" and the dog stood still, and did not do it.
His master then repeated the order more fiercely, but the dog stood still as before. His master
then leaped up in a great passion from the table, and seizing his sword, ran towards the mastiff,
who, seeing him coming, ran away, leaping over the chairs and tables and the fire, trying every
place to make his escape, with the bridegroom hard in pursuit of him. At length reaching the
dog, he smote off his head with his sword, then hewed off his legs, and all his body, until
the whole place was covered with blood. He then resumed his place at table, all covered as
he was with gore; and soon casting his eyes around, he beheld a lap-dog, and commanded him
to bring him water for his hands, and because he was not obeyed, he said, "How, false traitor!
see you not the fate of the mastiff, because he would not do as I commanded him? I vow, that
if you offer to contend one moment with me, I will treat thee to the same fare as I did the
mastiff;" and when he found it was not done, he arose, seized him by the legs, and dashing
him against the wall, actually beat his brains out, showing even more rage than against the
poor mastiff. Then in a great passion he returned to the table, and cast his eyes about on
all sides, while his bride, fearful that he had taken leave of his senses, ventured not to
utter a word. At length he fixed his eyes upon his horse that was standing before the door,
though he had only that one; and he commanded him to bring him water, which the horse did not
do. "How now, Mr. Horse," cried the husband, "do you imagine, because I have only you, that
I shall suffer you to live, and not do as I command you! No! I will inflict as hard a death
upon you as upon the others; yea, there is no living thing I have in the world which I will
spare, if I be not obeyed." But the horse stood where he was, and his master approaching with
the greatest rage, smote off his head, and cut him to pieces with his sword. And when his wife
saw that he had actually killed his horse, having no other, and heard him declare he would
do the same to any creature that ventured to disobey him, she found that he had by no means
done it by way of jest, and took such an alarm, that she hardly knew if she were dead or alive.
For all covered with gore as he was, he again seated himself at table, swearing that though
he had a thousand horses or wives, or servants, if they refused to do his behest, he would
kill them all; and he again began to look around him, holding his sword in his hand. And after
he had looked well round him, and found no living thing near him, he turned his eyes fiercely
towards his wife, and said in a great passion, "Get up, and bring me some water to wash my
hands!" and his wife, expecting nothing less than to be cut to pieces, rose in a great hurry,
and giving him water for his hands, said to him, "Ah, how I ought to return thanks to God,
who inspired you with the thought of doing as you have done! for otherwise, owing to the wrong
treatment of my foolish friends, I should have behaved the same to you as to them." Afterwards
he commanded her to help him to something to eat, and that in such a tone, that she felt as
if her head were on the point of dropping off upon the floor; so that in this way was the understanding
between them settled during that night, and she never spoke, but only did every thing which
he required her to do. After they had reposed some time, her husband said, "The passion I have
been put into this night hinders me from sleeping; get up, and see that nobody comes to disturb
me, and prepare for me something well cooked to eat."

When it came full day, and the fathers, mothers, and other relatives arrived at the door, they
all listened, and hearing no one speak, at first concluded that the unfortunate man was either
dead, or mortally wounded by his ferocious bride. In this they were the more confirmed when
they saw the bride standing at the door, and the bridegroom not there. But when the lady saw
them advancing, she walked gently on tiptoe towards them, and whispered, "False friends, as
you are, how dared you to come up to the door in that way, or to say a word! Be silent! as
you value your lives, and mine also." And when they were all made acquainted with what she
said, they greatly wondered; but when they learnt all that had passed during the night, their
wonder was changed into admiration of the young man, for having so well known how to manage
what concerned him, and to maintain order in his house. And from that day forth, so excellently
was his wife governed, and well-conditioned in every respect, that they led a very pleasant
life together. Such, indeed, was the good example set by the son-in-law, that a few days afterwards
the father-in-law, desirous of the same happy change in his household, also killed a horse;
but his wife only said to him, "By my faith, Don Fulano, you have thought of this plan somewhat
too late in the day; we are now too well acquainted with each other."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUMMER MORNING LANDSCAPE.--DELTA.

  The eyelids of the morning are awake;
  The dews are disappearing from the grass;
  The sun is o'er the mountains; and the trees,
  Moveless, are stretching through the blue of heaven,
  Exuberantly green. All noiseless
  The shadows of the twilight fleet away,
  And draw their misty legion to the west,
  Seen for awhile, 'mid the salubrious air,
  Suspended in the silent atmosphere,
  As in Medina's mosque Mahomet's tomb,--
  Up from the coppice, on exulting wing,
  Mounts, mounts the skylark through the clouds of dawn,--
  The clouds, whose snow-white canopy is spread
  Athwart, yet hiding not, at intervals,
  The azure beauty of the summer sky;
  And, at far distance heard, a bodiless note
  Pours down, as if from cherub stray'd from Heaven!

  Maternal Nature! all thy sights and sounds
  Now breathe repose, and peace, and harmony.
  The lake's unruffled bosom, cold and clear,
  Expands beneath me, like a silver veil
  Thrown o'er the level of subjacent fields,
  Revealing, on its conscious countenance,
  The shadows of the clouds that float above:--
  Upon its central stone the heron sits
  Stirless,--as in the wave its counterpart,--
  Looking, with quiet eye, towards the shore
  Of dark-green copse-wood, dark, save, here and there,
  Where spangled with the broom's bright aureate flowers.--
  The blue-winged sea-gull, sailing placidly
  Above his landward haunts, dips down alert
  His plumage in the waters, and, anon,
  With quicken'd wing, in silence re-ascends.--
  Whence comest thou, lone pilgrim of the wild?
  Whence wanderest thou, lone Arab of the air?
  Where makest thou thy dwelling-place? Afar,
  O'er inland pastures, from the herbless rock,
  Amid the weltering ocean, thou dost hold,
  At early sunrise, thy unguided way,--
  The visitants of Nature's varied realms,--
  The habitant of Ocean, Earth, and Air,--
  Sailing with sportive breast, mid wind and wave,
  And, when the sober evening draws around
  Her curtains, clasp'd together by her Star,
  Returning to the sea-rock's breezy peak.

  And now the wood engirds me, the tall stems
  Of birch and beech tree hemming me around,
  Like pillars of some natural temple vast;
  And, here and there, some giant pines ascend,
  Briareus-like, amid the stirless air,
  High stretching; like a good man's virtuous thoughts
  Forsaking earth for heaven. The cushat stands
  Amid the topmost boughs, with azure vest,
  And neck aslant, listening the amorous coo
  Of her, his mate, who, with maternal wing
  Wide-spread, sits brooding on opponent tree.
  Why, from the rank grass underneath my feet,
  Aside on ruffled pinion dost thou start,
  Sweet minstrel of the morn? Behold her nest,
  Thatch'd o'er with cunning skill, and there, her young
  With sparkling eye, and thin-fledged russet wing;
  Younglings of air! probationers of song!
  From lurking dangers may ye rest secure,
  Secure from prowling weazel, or the tread
  Of steed incautious, wandering 'mid the flowers?
  Secure beneath the fostering care of her
  Who warm'd you into life, and gave you birth;
  Till, plumed and strong unto the buoyant air,
  Ye spread your equal wings, and to the morn,
  Lifting your freckled bosoms, dew-besprent,
  Salute with spirit-stirring song, the man
  Wayfaring lonely. Hark! the striderous neigh!
  There, o'er his dogrose fence, the chestnut foal,
  Shaking his silver forelock, proudly stands,--
  To snuff the balmy fragrance of the morn:--
  Up comes his ebon compeer, and, anon,
  Around the field in mimic chase they fly,
  Startling the echoes of the woodland gloom.
  Farewell, ye placid scenes! amid the land
  Ye smile, an inland solitude: the voice
  Of peace-destroying man is seldom heard
  Amid your landscapes. Beautiful ye raise
  Your green embowering groves, and smoothly spread
  Your waters, glistening in a silver sheet.
  The morning is a season of delight--
  The morning is the self-possession'd hour--
  'Tis then that feelings, sunk, but unsubdued,
  Feelings of purer thoughts, and happier days,
  Awake, and, like the sceptred images
  Of Banquo's mirror, in succession pass!

  And, first of all, and fairest, thou dost pass
  In Memory's eye, beloved! though now afar
  From those sweet vales, where we have often roam'd
  Together. Do thy blue eyes now survey
  The brightness of the morn in other scenes?
  Other, but haply beautiful as these,
  Which now I gaze on; but which, wanting thee,
  Want half their charms, for, to thy poet's thought,
  More deeply glow'd the heaven, when thy fine eye,
  Surveying its grand arch, all kindling glow'd;
  The white cloud to thy white brow was a foil;
  And, by the soft tints of thy cheek outvied,
  The dew-bent wild-rose droop'd despairingly.

Blackwood's Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."
SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGING COIN.

Judge Gould married his daughter to Lord Cavan. A gentleman asking what fortune, was answered,
"it was all in Gould, and his lordship changed it the first day."

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLTAIRE.

Voltaire said of a traveller, who made too long a stay with him at Ferney, "Don Quixote took
inns for castles, but Mr. ---- takes castles for inns."

       *       *       *       *       *

ABROAD AND AT HOME.

The English abroad can never get to look as if they were at home. The Irish and Scotch, after
being some time in a place, get the air of the natives; but an Englishman, in any foreign court,
looks about him as if he was going to steal a tankard.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARODY OF THE FIRST SONG IN THE BEGGAR'S OPERA.

  Through all the odd noses in vogue,
    Each nose is turn'd up at its brother;
  Broad and blunt they call platter and pug,
    And thus they take snuff at each other.

  The short calls the long nose a snout,
    The long calls the short nose a snub;
  And the bottle nose being so stout,
    Thinks every sharp one a scrub.

T.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

GARRICK AND STERNE.

Sterne, who used his wife very ill, was one day talking to Garrick in a fine sentimental manner,
in praise of conjugal love and fidelity. "The husband," said Sterne, "who behaves unkindly
to his wife, deserves to have his house burnt over his head." "If you think so," said Garrick,
"I hope your house is insured."

       *       *       *       *       *

UNPALATABLE IMPROVEMENT.

Wilkes attended a city dinner, not long after his promotion to city honours. Among the guests
was a noisy, vulgar deputy, a great glutton, who, on his entering the dinner-room, always with
great deliberation took off his wig, suspended it on a pin, and with due solemnity put on a
white cotton night-cap. Wilkes, who was a high bred man, and never accustomed to similar exhibitions,
could not take his eyes from so strange and novel a picture. At length the deputy walked up
to Wilkes, and asked him whether he did not think that his night-cap became him? "Oh! yes,
Sir," replied Wilkes, "but it would look much better if it was pulled quite over your face."

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARMS OF A DUEL.

  It has a strange quick jar upon the ear,
    That cocking of a pistol, when you know
  A moment more will bring the sight to bear
    Upon your person, twelve yards off, or so,
  A gentlemanly distance, not too near,
    If you have got a former friend for foe;
  But after being fired at once or twice,
  The ear becomes more Irish, and less nice.

BYRON.

       *       *       *       *       *

WESTMINSTER HALL.

A peasant newly arrived in London, asked what building was that, pointing to where the law
courts are held. "It is a mill," said an attorney, to quiz the bumpkin. "I thought as much,"
replied the countryman, "for I see a good many asses at the door with sacks."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUT OF DEBT.

  You say you nothing owe, and so I say,
  He only owes who something has--to pay.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEWSPAPER LIBELS.

Writers in some journals, like rope-dancers, to engage the public attention, must venture their
necks every step that they take. The pleasure people feel, arises from the risk that they run.

