Andreas Miaoulis, one of the least obtrusive, was almost the worthiest of all the Greek patriots.
During five years he had never ceased to do the best that it was possible for him to do with
the bad materials at his disposal. When the Greek Revolution was at its height, he had contributed
largely to its success; and in the ensuing years of disaster upon land, he had maintained its
dignity on the sea by offering bold resistance to the great naval power of the combined Turkish
and Egyptian fleets. No better proof of his patriotism could be given than in the zeal with
which he surrendered to Lord Cochrane the leadership of the fleet which had devolved upon him
for so long and been so ably conducted by him. "I received four days ago," he wrote from Poros
on the 23rd of February, 1827, "your amiable letter of the 19th of last month, and my great
satisfaction at the announcement of your approaching arrival in Greece is joined with a special
pleasure at the honour you do me in associating me with your important operations. I shall
be happy, my admiral, if, in serving you, I can do my duty. I await you with impatience."

Just a month before that, on the 23rd of January, a like letter of congratulation was addressed
to Lord Cochrane from Egina by the Governing Commission of Greece. "The intelligence of your
speedy coming to Greece," they said, "has awakened the liveliest joy and satisfaction, and
has already begun to rekindle in the hearts of the Greeks that enthusiasm which is the most
powerful weapon and the surest support of a nation that has devoted itself to the recovery
of its most sacred rights. The Government of Greece is waiting with the utmost impatience for
the most zealous defender of the nation's liberty. It hopes to see you in its midst as soon
as possible after your arrival at Hydra, and then to make you acquainted with the actual state
of Greece, and to furnish you with all the means in its power for the achievement of the grand
results proposed by your lordship." The letter was signed by Andreas Zaimes, as President of
the Commission, and by seven of its members, among whom were Mavromichales, or Petro-Bey, who,
with Zaimes and two others, represented the Morea, Spiridion Trikoupes, the deputy for Roumelia,
Zamados from Hydra, Monarchides from Psara, and Demetrakopoulos from the islands of the Egean Sea.

By the same body was issued, on the 21st of February, a preliminary commission, intended to
protect him in case of any opposition being raised to his progress by the authorities of other
nations. "The Governing Commission of Greece," it was written, "makes known that Admiral Lord
Cochrane is recognised as being in the service of Greece, and accordingly has the permission
of the Government to hoist the Greek flag on all the vessels that are under his command. He
has power, also, to fight the enemies of Greece to the utmost of his power. Therefore the officers
of neutral powers, being informed of this, are implored, not only to offer no opposition to
his movements, but also, if necessary, to supply him with any assistance he may require, seeing
that it is our custom to do the same to all friendly nations." Armed with this document, and
provided with the necessary means by the Philhellenes of England, France, and Switzerland,
Lord Cochrane proceeded from Marseilles to Greece.

1. The destruction of three heavily-armed French corvettes, near the mouth of the Garonne,
the crew of Lord Cochrane's frigate, Pallas, being at the time, with the exception of forty
men, engaged in cutting out the Tapageuse, lying under the protection of two batteries thirty
miles up the river, in which operation they were also successful, four ships of war being thus
captured or destroyed in a single day. For these services Lord Cochrane obtained nothing but
his share of the Tapageuse, sold by auction for a trifling sum, the Government refusing to
purchase her as a ship of war, though of admirable build and construction. Contrary to the
usual rule, no ship ever taken by Lord Cochrane, throughout his whole career, was ever allowed
to be bought into the navy. For the corvettes, which Lord Cochrane destroyed with so small
a crew, he never received reward or thanks, the alleged reason being, that, having become wrecks,
they were not in existence, and therefore could not have value attached to them. This decision
of the Admiralty was contrary to custom, as admitted to the present day. In the late Russian
war a gunboat of the enemy having been driven on shore and wrecked, compensation is said to
have been awarded to the officers and crew of the British vessel which drove her on shore.
The importance of wrecking a gunboat, in comparison with the destruction of three fast-sailing
ships, which were picking up our merchantmen, in all directions, needs no comment.

2. Lord Cochrane's services on the coast of Catalonia, of which Lord Collingwood, then commander-in-chief
in the Mediterranean, testified of his lordship to the Admiralty that by his energy and foresight
he had, with a single frigate, stopped a French army from occupying Eastern Spain. The services
by which this was effected were as follows:--Preventing the reinforcement of the French garrison
in Barcelona, by harassing the newly-arrived troops in their march along the coast, and organising
and assisting the Spanish militia to oppose their progress, Lord Cochrane himself capturing
one of their forts on shore, and taking the garrison prisoners.

On the approach of a powerful French corps d'armée towards Barcelona, Lord Cochrane blew up
the roads along the coast, and taught the Spanish peasantry how to do so inland. By blowing
up the cliff roads, near Mongat, Lord Cochrane interposed an insurmountable obstacle between
the army and its artillery, capturing and throwing into the sea a considerable number of field-pieces,
so that the operations of the French were rendered nugatory. For these services, Lord Cochrane,
notwithstanding the strong representations of Lord Collingwood to the Board of Admiralty, neither
received thanks nor reward of any kind; notwithstanding that whilst so engaged, and that voluntarily,
in successfully accomplishing the work of an army, he patriotically gave up all chances of
prize money, though easily to be obtained by cruising after the enemy's vessels. In place of
this, he neither searched for nor captured a single prize, whilst engaged in harassing the
French army on shore, devoting his whole energies towards the enterprise which he considered
most conducive to the interests of his country.

3. Having effected his object, Lord Cochrane sailed for the Gulf of Lyons, with the intention
of cutting off the enemy's shore communications. This he accomplished by destroying their signal
stations, telegraphs, and shore batteries along nearly the whole coast, navigating his frigate
with perfect safety throughout this proverbially perilous part of the Mediterranean. In order
further to paralyse the enemy's movements, Lord Cochrane made a practice of burning paper near
the demolished stations, so as to deceive the French into the belief that he had burned their
signal books; he rightly judging that from this circumstance they might not deem it necessary
to alter their code of signals. The ruse succeeded, and, transmitting the signal books to Lord
Collingwood, then watching the enemy's preparations in Toulon, the commander-in-chief was thus
fully apprised, by the enemy's signals, not only of all their naval movements, but also of
the position and movements of all British ships of war on the French coast. Lord Cochrane's
single frigate thus performed the work of many vessels of observation, and Lord Collingwood
testified of him to the Admiralty that "his resources seemed to have no end." Notwithstanding
this testimony from his commander-in-chief, Lord Cochrane neither received reward nor thanks
for the service rendered.

4. On his return to the Spanish coast, Lord Cochrane found the French besieging Rosas, the
Spaniards maintaining possession of the citadel, whilst Fort Trinidad had just been evacuated
by the British officer who had been co-operating with the Spaniards in the larger fortress.
Lord Cochrane, believing that if Fort Trinidad were held till reinforcements arrived, the French
must be compelled to raise the siege of Rosas, persuaded the Spanish Governor not to surrender,
as he was about to do, on its evacuation by the British officer aforesaid, and threw himself
into the fort with a detachment from the seamen and marines of the Impérieuse, with which frigate
he maintained uninterrupted communication, in spite of the enemy, who, on ascertaining it to
be Lord Cochrane who was keeping them at bay, redoubled their efforts to capture the fort,
the gallant defence of which is amongst the most remarkable events of naval warfare. Lord Cochrane
held Fort Trinidad till, the Spaniards surrendering the citadel, he would not allow his men
to run further risk in their behalf, and withdrew the seamen and marines in safety. For this
remarkable exploit Lord Cochrane, though himself severely wounded, neither received reward
nor thanks, except from Lord Collingwood, who again, without effect, warmly applauded his gallantry
to the Admiralty.

5. Immediately on his arrival at Plymouth, on leave of absence in consequence of ill health
from his extraordinary exertions, Lord Cochrane was immediately summoned by the Admiralty to
Whitehall, and asked for a plan whereby the French fleet in Basque Roads, then threatening
our West India possessions, might be destroyed at one blow; this extraordinary request from
a junior captain, after the most experienced officers in the navy had pronounced its impracticability,
forcibly proving the very high opinion entertained by the Admiralty of Lord Cochrane's skill
and resources. He gave in a plan, and was ordered to execute it, which order he reluctantly
obeyed, having done all in his power to decline an invidious command, for fear of arousing
the jealousy of officers to whom he was junior in the service. What followed is matter of history,
and needs not to be recapitulated. Yet for the destruction of that powerful armament he neither
received reward nor thanks from the Admiralty, though rewarded by his sovereign with the highest
order of the Bath, a distinction which marked his Majesty's sense of the important service
rendered.

Nine years afterwards head money was awarded to the whole fleet, of which only the vessels
directed by Lord Cochrane and a few sent afterwards, when too late for effective measures,
took part in the action. The alleged reason of this award was that the Calcutta, one of the
ships driven ashore by Lord Cochrane, did not surrender to him, but to ships sent to his assistance.
This was not true, though after protracted deliberation so ruled by the Admiralty Court, and
officers now living and present in the action have recently come forward to testify to the
ship being in Lord Cochrane's possession before the arrival of the ships which subsequently
came to his assistance. A small sum was therefore only awarded to him as a junior captain,
in common with those who had been spectators only, and this he declined to receive. Such was
his recompense for a service to the high merit of which Napoleon himself afterwards testified
in the warmest manner; and it may be mentioned as a further testimony that a French Court Martial
shot Captain Lafont, the commander of the Calcutta, because he surrendered to a vessel of inferior
power, viz., Lord Cochrane's frigate, the Impérieuse of forty-four guns, the Calcutta carrying
sixty guns.[A]

[Footnote A: Captain Lafont was shot on board the Ocean, on September 9, 1809, for surrendering
the Calcutta to a ship of inferior force, thus proving that she surrendered to Lord Cochrane
alone, though Sir William Scott ruled in opposition to the facts adopted by the French Court
Martial, which condemned Captain Lafont to death for the act. The surrender to Lord Cochrane
alone is further proved by the additional fact, that the captains of the Ville de Varsovie
and Aquilon, which did surrender to the other ships in conjunction with Lord Cochrane's frigate,
were not even accused, much less punished for so doing.]

The exploits of Lord Cochrane in the Speedy and Pallas are too well known in naval history
to require recapitulation, and of these it may be said that the numerous prizes captured by
these vessels constituted their own reward. It may here be mentioned in confirmation of what
has previously been said, that the Gamo, a magnificent xebeque frigate of thirty-two guns,
was not allowed to be bought into the navy, but was sold for a small sum to one of the piratical
Barbary States, notwithstanding that Lord Cochrane had said that if he were allowed to have
her in place of the Speedy, then in a very dilapidated condition, he would sweep the Mediterranean
of the enemy's cruisers and privateers. His capacity so to do may be judged from what he effected
with the Speedy, mounting only fourteen 4-pounders.

With regard to the services previously enumerated, the case is different, notwithstanding their
national importance in comparison with his minor acts, which may be classed as brilliant exploits
only. But that no reward should have been conferred for doing effectively the work of an army,
and that without the cost of a shilling to the nation beyond the ordinary expenditure of a
small frigate, necessary to be disbursed whether she performed any effective service or not,
is a neglect which, unless repaired in the persons of his successors, will for ever remain
a blot on the British Government. Still more so will the worse neglect of not having in any
way rewarded him for the destruction of the French fleet in Basque Roads, for though only four
ships were destroyed at the moment, the whole fleet of the enemy was so damaged by having been
driven on shore from terror of the explosive vessel, fired with Lord Cochrane's own hand, that
it eventually became a wreck; and thus our West India commerce, then the most important branch
of national export and import, was in a month after Lord Cochrane's arrival from the Mediterranean
relieved from the panic which paralysed it, and restored to its wonted security;--a service
which can only be estimated by the gloom and panic which had previously pervaded the whole country.

Were reference made to the pension list, and note taken of the pensions granted to other officers
and their successors for services which in point of national importance do not admit of comparison
with those of Lord Cochrane, the present generation would be surprised at the national ingratitude
manifested towards one, who, in his great exploits, had so patriotically sacrificed every consideration
of private interest to his country's service. His cruise in the Impérieuse, which has no parallel
in naval history, procured for Lord Cochrane nothing whatever but shattered health from the
incessant anxiety and exertion he had undergone in the profitless but high-minded course he
adopted to thwart the French in their attempts to establish a permanent footing in Eastern
Spain. His exploits in Basque Roads procured him nothing but absolute ruin; for, from his refusal
as a Member of Parliament to acquiesce in a vote of thanks to Lord Gambier, even though the
same thanks were promised to himself, may be dated that active political persecution which
commenced by depriving him of further naval employment and did not cease till it had accomplished
his utter ruin, even to striking his name out of the Navy List.

The animosity of this political partisanship towards one who had effected so much for his country
is an anomaly even in political history. That amended representation of the people in Parliament,
for which he strove up to 1818, had only fourteen years afterwards become the law of the land,
and the boast of some who had persecuted Lord Cochrane for no offence beyond having been amongst
the first to give expression to the popular will subsequently adopted by themselves.

The efforts of Lord Cochrane in favour of reforming the abuses of the Navy and of Greenwich
Hospital, which at that time brought upon him the wrath of the Administration, are at this
moment seriously engaging the attention of parliament, as being of paramount national necessity.
The doctrine then openly laid down, that no naval officer in parliament had a right to interfere
with naval administration, has long been abrogated, and many of the brightest ornaments of
the navy are now amongst the foremost to denounce naval abuses in the House of Commons. It
is, in fact, to them that the country now looks for that vigilance which shall preserve the
navy in a proper state of efficiency. Yet for these very things was Lord Cochrane persecuted,
though modern Governments, which have been liberal enough to acquiesce in popular reforms,
of which he was the early advocate, have not been liberal enough to make him amends for the
wrongs he suffered as one of the indefatigable originators of their now-cherished measures.
Still less have they deemed it inconsistent with the honour of this great country to refrain
from rewarding him in the ordinary manner for his most important services, rendered when others
shrank from them, as was the case at Basque Roads, where his plans, declined by his seniors
in the service, were successfully executed by himself under the greatest possible discouragement
and disadvantage.

But the injustice manifested towards the late Earl of Dundonald did not end here. Driven from
the service of his own country, and without fortune, he was compelled by his necessities to
embark in the service of foreign states. With his own hand, directed by his own genius, which
had to supply the place of adequate naval force, he liberated Chili, Peru, and Brazil from
thraldom, consolidating the rebellious provinces of the latter empire on so permanent a basis,
that its internal peace has never again been disturbed. Yet not one of these states has to
this day satisfied the stipulated and indisputable arrangements by which he was induced to
espouse their cause; the reason of their breach of contract being distinctly traceable to the
course pursued towards Lord Dundonald in England. Seeing that the British Government paid no
attention to the yet more important claims he had upon its gratitude, the South American States
believed that they might with impunity disregard their own stipulations, and the dictates of
national honour; the chief of one of them having had the audacity to tell Lord Cochrane that
he would find no sympathy in the British Government.

Three of the most distinguished officers in the British service, Sir Thomas Hastings, Sir John
Burgoyne, and Colonel Colquhoun, have felt it their duty, when officially reporting on the
efficacy of Lord Dundonald's war plans, to give him the highest credit for having kept his
secret "under peculiarly trying circumstances," and from pure love of his native country. The
"trying circumstances" were these,--that he had been driven from the service of that country
by the machinations of a political faction, which, in the conscientious performance of his
parliamentary duties, he had offended. Even this injury, which blasted his whole life and prospects,
did not detract one iota from the love of country, which to the day of his death was with him
a passion; his acute mind well knowing how to draw the distinction between his country and
those who were sacrificing its best interests to their love of power, if not to less worthy
purposes. Never was praise more honourably given, than in the Ordnance Report of the above-named
distinguished officers, and never was it more nobly deserved.

Another "peculiarly trying circumstance" alluded to by those officers, was that, when compelled
by actual pecuniary necessity, in consequence of the deprivation of his rank and pay, and the
demands of increasing family, to accept service under a foreign state as his only means of
subsistence, he lay before the castles of Callao, into which had been removed for security
the whole wealth of the rich capital of Peru, including bullion and plate, estimated at upwards
of a million sterling, he preserved his war secret, though strongly urged to put it in execution.
Had he listened to the temptation, in six hours the whole of that wealth must have been in
his possession. For not listening to it, he incurred the enmity of his employers, who urged
that they were entitled to all his professional skill and knowledge, as a part of his bargain
with them; and his non-compliance with their wishes is doubtless amongst the chief reasons
why they have not, to this day, satisfied their own offered stipulations for his services.
Yet, at the very moment when he was displaying this self-sacrificing patriotism, lest his country
might suffer from his secret being divulged, the Government of Great Britain had, at the suggestion
of the Spanish Government, passed a "Foreign Enlistment Act," with the express intention of
enveloping him in its meshes.[A]

[Footnote A: On Lord Cochrane's return from Brazil, having occasion to go before the Attorney-General,
on the subject of a patent, that learned functionary rudely asked him, "Whether he was not
afraid to appear in his presence?" Lord Cochrane's reply was, "No, nor in the presence of any
man living." Evidence exists that the Attorney-General asked the Ministry if he should prosecute
Lord Cochrane under the Foreign Enlistment Act, the reply being in the negative.]

II.

(Page 23.)

As a striking instance of Lord Cochrane's method of exposing naval abuses, part of a speech
delivered by him in the House of Commons, on the 11th of May, 1809, is here copied from his
"Autobiography," vol. ii. pp. 142-144.

    An admiral, worn out in the service, is superannuated at
    410l.. a year, a captain at 210l.., a clerk of the ticket office
    retires on 700l.. a year! The widow of Admiral Sir Andrew
    Mitchell has one third of the allowance given to the widow of
    a Commissioner of the Navy.

    I will give the House another instance. Four daughters of the
    gallant Captain Courtenay have 12l. 10s. each, the daughter of
    Admiral Sir Andrew Mitchell has 25l., two daughters of Admiral
    Epworth have 25l. each, the daughter of Admiral Keppel 24l.,
    the daughter of Captain Mann, who was killed in action, 25l.,
    four children of Admiral Moriarty 25l. each.

    The pension list is not formed on any comparative rank or
    merit, length of service, or other rational principle, but
    appears to me to be dependent on parliamentary influence
    alone. Lieutenant Ellison, who lost his arm, is allowed 91l.
    5s., Captain Johnstone, who lost his arm, has only 45l.
    12s. 6d., Lieutenant Arden, who lost his arm, has 9l.
    5s., Lieutenant Campbell, who lost his leg, 40l.., and poor
    Lieutenant Chambers, who lost both his legs, has only 80l..,
    whilst Sir A.S. Hamond retires on 1500l.. per annum. The brave
    Sir Samuel Hood, who lost his arm, has only 500l.., whilst the
    late Secretary of the Admiralty retires, in full health, on a
    pension of 1500l.. per annum.

To speak less in detail, 32 flag officers, 22 captains, 50 lieutenants, 180 masters, 36 surgeons,
23 pursers, 91 boatswains, 97 gunners, 202 carpenters, and 41 cooks, in all 774 persons, cost
the country 4028l. less than the nett proceeds of the sinecures of Lords Arden (20,358l.),
Camden (20,536l.), and Buckingham (20,693l.).

All the superannuated admirals, captains, and lieutenants put together, have but 1012l. more
than Earl Camden's sinecure alone! All that is paid to the wounded officers of the whole British
navy, and to the wives and children of those dead or killed in action, do not amount by 214l.
to as much as Lord Arden's sinecure alone, viz. 20,358l.. What is paid to the mutilated officers
themselves is but half as much.

Is this justice? Is this the treatment which the officers of the navy deserve at the hands
of those who call themselves his Majesty's Government? Does the country know of this injustice?
Will this too be defended? If I express myself with warmth I trust in the indulgence of the
House. I cannot suppress my feelings. Should 31 commissioners, commissioners' wives, and clerks
have 3899l. more amongst them than all the wounded officers of the navy of England?

I find upon examination that the Wellesleys receive from the public 34,729l., a sum equal to
426 pairs of lieutenants' legs, calculated at the rate of allowance of Lieutenant Chambers's
legs. Calculating for the pension of Captain Johnstone's arm, viz. 45l., Lord Arden's sinecure
is equal to the value of 1022 captains' arms. The Marquis of Buckingham's sinecure alone will
maintain the whole ordinary establishment of the victualling department at Chatham, Dover,
Gibraltar, Sheerness, Downs, Heligoland, Cork, Malta, Mediterranean, Cape of Good Hope, Rio
de Janeiro, and leave 5460l. in the Treasury. Two of these comfortable sinecures would victual
the officers and men serving in all the ships in ordinary in Great Britain, viz. 117 sail of
the line, 105 frigates, 27 sloops, and 50 hulks. Three of them would maintain the dockyard
establishments at Portsmouth and Plymouth. The addition of a few more would amount to as much
as the whole ordinary establishments of the royal dockyards at Chatham, Woolwich, Deptford,
and Sheerness; whilst the sinecures and offices executed wholly by deputy would more than maintain
the ordinary establishment of all the royal dockyards in the kingdom.

Even Mr. Ponsonby, who lately made so pathetic an appeal to the good sense of the people of
England against those whom he was pleased to term demagogues, actually receives, for having
been thirteen months in office, a sum equal to nine admirals who have spent their lives in
the service of their country; three times as much as all the pensions given to all the daughters
and children of all the admirals, captains, lieutenants, and other officers who have died in
indigent circumstances, or who have been killed in the service.

III.

(Page 258.)

The following letter, too long to be quoted in the body of the work, but too important to be
omitted, was addressed by Lord Cochrane to the Brazilian Secretary of State. It gives memorable
evidence of the treatment to which he was subjected by the Portuguese faction in Brazil.

Rio de Janeiro, May 3rd, 1824.

MOST EXCELLENT SIR,

I have received the honour of your excellency's reply to my letter of the 30th of March, and
as I am thereby taught that the subjects on which I wrote are not now considered so intimately
connected with your excellency's department as they were by your immediate predecessor, nor
even so far relevant as to justify a direct communication to your excellency, I should feel
it my duty to avoid troubling you farther on those subjects, were it not that you at the same
time have freely expressed such opinions with respect to my conduct and motives as justice
to myself requires me to controvert and refute.

With regard to your excellency's assurance that it has ever been the intention of his Imperial
Majesty and Council to act favourably towards me, I can in return assure your excellency that
I have never doubted the just and benign intention of his Imperial Majesty himself, neither
have I doubted that a part of his Privy Council has thought well of my services; and if I have
imagined that a majority has been prejudiced against me, I have formed that conclusion merely
from the effects which I have seen and experienced, and not from any undue prepossession against
particular individuals, whether Brazilian or Portuguese. But when your excellency adds that
those transactions between the late minister and myself, which, owing to their having been
conducted verbally, have been ill-understood, have invariably been decided in a manner favourable
to me, I confess myself at a loss to understand your excellency's meaning, not having any recollection
of such favourable decisions, and therefore not feeling myself competent either to admit or
deny unless in the first place your excellency shall be pleased to descend to particulars.
I do indeed recollect that the late ministers, professing to have the authority of his Imperial
Majesty, and which, from the personal countenance I have experienced from that august personage,
I am sure they did not clandestinely assume, proffered to me the command of the imperial squadron,
with every privilege, emolument, and advantage which I possessed in the command of the navy
of Chili; and this, your excellency is desired to observe, was not a verbal transaction, but
a written one, and therefore not liable to any of those misunderstandings to which verbal transactions,
as your excellency observes, are naturally subject. Now, in Chili my commission was that of
commander-in-chief of the squadron, without limitation as to time or any other restriction.
My command, of course, was only to cease by my own voluntary resignation, or by sentence of
court-martial, or by death, or other uncontrollable event. And accordingly the appointment
which I accepted in the service of his Imperial Majesty, and in virtue of which I sailed in
command of the expedition to Bahia, was that of commander-in-chief of the whole squadron, without
limitation as to time or otherwise; and this, too, your excellency will be pleased to observe,
was not a verbal transaction, but a solemn engagement in writing, bearing date the 26th day
of March, 1823, and now in my possession. I had also the assurance in writing of the Minister
of Marine, that the formalities of engrossment and registration of such appointment were only
deferred from want of time, and should be executed immediately after my return.

And now I most respectfully put it home to your excellency whether these engagements have or
have not been fully confirmed and complied with under the present administration. I ask your
excellency whether the patent which I received, bearing date the 25th November, 1823, did not
contain a clause of limitation by which I might at any time be dismissed from the service under
any pretence or without any pretence whatever--without even the form of a hearing in my own
defence. Then again I ask your excellency whether my office as commander-in-chief of the squadron
was not reduced for a period of three months--as appears by every official communication of
the Minister of Marine to me during that period--to the command only of the vessels of war
anchored in this port?[A] and further on this subject I ask your excellency whether after my
repeated remonstrances against this injurious limitation of my stipulated authority, it was
not pretended by the decree published in the Gazette of the 28th February, that I was then
for the first time, as a mark of special favour, elevated to the rank of commander-in-chief
of the squadron, and that too during the period only of the existing war: although nothing
less than the chief command had been offered to me at the first, without any restriction as
to time, and although it was only in that capacity I had consented to enter into the service,
and under a written appointment as such I had then been in the service nearly twelve months.
And then I ask your excellency whether the limitation introduced into the patent of the 25th
of November last, in violation of the original agreement, and confirmed and defined by the
decree published on the 28th of February following; to which may be added the communication
which I received from your excellency, excluding me from taking the oath, and becoming a party
to the constitution, the 149th article of which provides for the protection of officers until
lawfully deprived by sentence of court-martial; I say that I respectfully ask your excellency
whether these proceedings were not well adapted for the purpose of casting me off with the
utmost facility at the earliest moment that convenience might dictate; either with or without
the admission of those claims for the future to which past services are usually considered
entitled, as might best suit the inclination of those with whom my dismissal might originate.
And is it not most probable that their inclination would run counter to those claims, especially
when it is considered that my letter of the 6th of March to the Minister of Marine, in which
I made the inquiry whether my right to half-pay would be recognized on the termination of the
war, has never been answered, although my application for a reply has been repeated?[B] If
then the explicit engagements in writing between the late minister of his Imperial Majesty
and myself have, as I have shown, been set aside by the present ministry and council, and other
arrangements far less favourable to me, and destructive of the lawful security of my present
and future rights, have without my consent been substituted in their stead, where, I entreat
your excellency, am I to look for those favourable constructions of "ill-understood verbal
transactions," which your excellency requires me to accept as a proof that the intentions of
the present ministry and council, in respect to me, have ever been of the most favourable and
obliging nature?

[Footnote A: This was resorted to, in order to prevent Lord Cochrane from stationing the cruisers
to annoy the enemy, to deprive him of any interest in future captures, and prevent his opposition
to the unlawful restoration of enemy's property.]

[Footnote B: An answer was at last given, a few days before Lord Cochrane's assistance was
called for to put down the revolution at Pernambuco; and half of the originally-granted half-pay
was decreed when he should return, after the termination of hostilities, to his native country.]

I would beg permission, too, to inquire how it happened that portarias[A] from the Minister
of Marine, charging me unjustly from time to time with neglecting to obey the command of his
Imperial Majesty, were constantly made public, while my answers in refutation were always suppressed.
And why, when I remonstrated against this injustice, was I answered that the same course should
be persisted in, and that I had no alternative but to acquiesce, or to descend to a newspaper
controversy by publishing my exculpations myself? Is it possible not to perceive that the ex
parte publication of these accusatory portarias was intended to lower me in the public estimation,
and to prepare the way for the exercise of that power of summary dismissal which was so unfairly
acquired by the means above described?

[Footnote A: Official communications.]

On the subject of the prizes your excellency is pleased to state: "Les difficultés survenues
dans le jugement des prizes ont eu des motifs si connus et positifs qu'il est assez doloureux
de les voir attribuir à la mauvaise volonté du Conseil de S.M.I." To this I reply that I know
of no just cause for the delay which has arisen in the decision of the prizes, and consequently
I have a right to impute blame for that delay to those who have the power to cause it or remove
it. If the majority of the voices in council had been for a prompt condemnation to the captors
of the prizes taken from the Portuguese nation, is it possible that individuals of that nation
would be suffered to continue to be the judges of those prizes after an experience of many
months has demonstrated either their determination to do nothing, or nothing favourable to
the captors? The repugnance of Portuguese judges to condemn property captured from their fellow-countrymen,
as a reward to those who have engaged in hostilities against Portugal, is natural enough, and
is the only well-known and positive cause of the delay with which I am acquainted; but it is
not such a cause for delay as ought to have been permitted to operate by the ministers and
council of his Imperial Majesty, who are bound in honour and duty to act with fidelity towards
those who have been engaged as auxiliaries in the attainment and maintenance of the independence
of the empire. I did, however, inform your excellency that I had heard it stated that another
difficulty had arisen in the apprehension that this Government might be under the necessity
of eventually restoring the prizes to the original Portuguese owners as a condition of peace.
But this, your excellency assures me, proves nothing but that I am a listener to "rapporteurs,"
whom I ought to drive from my presence. Unfortunately, however, for this bold explanation of
your excellency, the individual whom I heard make the observation was no other than his excellency
the present Minister of Marine, Francisco Villala Barboza. If your excellency considers that
gentleman in the light of a "rapporteur," or talebearer, it is not for me to object; but the
imputation of being a listener to or encourager of talebearers, so rashly advanced by your
excellency against me, is without foundation in truth. It may be necessary for ministers of
state to have their eavesdroppers and informers, but mine is a straightforward course, which
needs no such precautions. And if there be any who volunteer information or advice, I can appreciate
the value of it, and the motives of those who offer it. Those who know me much better than
your excellency does, will admit that I am in the habit of thinking for myself, and not apt
to act on the suggestions of others, especially if officiously tendered.

