The ringing of the sweet-toned church bell the next morning at seven o'clock reminded Miss
Ray of her desire to visit the tower which contained it. She had noticed how it rang out three
times during the day, at seven, twelve, and nine o'clock, and, for the quiet Nantucket town,
she hoped that the old custom would never be dropped. And then this bell had a peculiar attraction
for her, for it was like the one which was on her own church in Boston, the New Old South.
She had been greatly interested in reading that this "Old Spanish Bell," as it was called,
was brought from Lisbon in 1812; that it was stored in a cellar for three years, when it was
bought by subscription for about five hundred dollars, and put in this tower. She had read,
further, in Godfrey's guide-book, that "some little time after the bell had been in use, the
sound of its mellow tones had reached the Hub; and so bewitching were the musical vibrations
of this queenly bell (e) of Nantucket to many of the good people of the renowned 'City of Notions,'
that the agents of the Old South Church negotiated with the agents of the Unitarian Church,
saying that they had a very fine clock in their tower; that they had been so unfortunate as
to have their bell broken, and wished to know at what price this bell could be procured. The
agents of the Unitarian Church replied that they had a very fine bell in their tower, and would
like to know at what price the Old South Society would sell their clock. The bell weighs one
thousand five hundred and seventy-five pounds; the Boston gentlemen offered one dollar a pound
for it, and upon finding they could not get it at any price, they asked where it came from;
and having ascertained its history, sent to Lisbon to the same foundry and procured that which
they now have." And she had been told further that this same bell had been removed to the new
church on the Back Bay. With all this pleasant association with the bell of her own church,
of course she must pay it a visit. So at about nine o'clock, after Mr. Gordon and Tom had gone
off with two gentlemen for a day's blue-fishing, she, with Mrs. Gordon and Bessie, started
out for their morning's sight-seeing. In a half hour's time they had climbed the stairs to
the tower, and were admiring the fine new clock,--a gift from one of Nantucket's sons, now
living in New York,--which had been first set in motion two years before, to replace an old
one which had told the time for over half a century. A little farther up they saw the famous
bell, and Miss Ray did wish that she could read Spanish so as to translate the inscription
which was upon it. A few steps more brought them into the dome itself. Here, then, was the
place where "Billy" came to sight the steamers; and here was where a watchman stayed every
night to watch for fires. Whenever he saw one, Bessie said his duty was to hang a lantern upon
a hook in the direction of the fire and give the alarm. She said that this had been the custom
for years. As they were all enjoying this finest view which the island affords, Bessie spied
the Old Mill in the distance, and as she had that painted on a shell as a souvenir of her Nantucket
trip she must surely visit it. So they were soon wending their way up Orange street, through
Lyons to Pleasant, and then up South Mill to the Old Mill itself. On paying five cents apiece,
they were privileged to go to the top and look through the spy-glass, and also see the miller
grind some corn. This old windmill, built in 1746, with its old oaken beams still strong and
sound, situated on a hill by itself, was to Bessie the most picturesque thing that she had
seen. She associated this with the oldest house on the island, built in 1686, facing the south,
which she had seen the day before.

