The Scribner English Classics

EDITED BY

FREDERICK H. SYKES, PH.D. TEACHERS COLLEGE, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

COLERIDGE'S ANCIENT MARINER AND SELECT POEMS

1908

PREFATORY NOTE

The text of the poems in this volume is that of J. Dykes Campbell in the Globe edition of Coleridge's
poems. For the introduction I have depended also largely upon his Memoir of Coleridge, and
upon the two volumes of the "Letters of Samuel Taylor Coleridge," edited by the poet's grandson,
Mr. E.H. Coleridge. In the Notes, as will be seen, I am indebted particularly to the general
editor of this series, Dr. F.H. Sykes, to Dr. Lane Cooper of Cornell University, and again
to Mr. Coleridge, through whose kindness I have been able to get a reproduction of the Marshmills
crayon, undoubtedly the most satisfactory portrait of the poet in existence, for the frontispiece.

H.M.B.

CONTENTS

  BIBLIOGRAPHY

  INTRODUCTION:

  I. SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE
  II. COLERIDGE'S POEMS

  TEXT:

  THE ANCIENT MARINER
  CHRISTABEL
  KUBLA KHAN
  LOVE
  FRANCE: AN ODE
  DEJECTION: AN ODE
  YOUTH AND AGE
  WORK WITHOUT HOPE
  EPITAPH

  NOTES

*SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY*

EDITIONS:

Globe Edition. Edited by J. Dykes Campbell. 1 vol. Muses' Library. Edited by Richard Garnett.

LIFE AND CRITICISM:

Stephen, Leslie, Article "Coleridge" in "The Dictionary of National Biography."

H.D. Traill, "Coleridge" ("English Men of Letters Series").

Caine, T.H., "Coleridge" ("Great Writers Series").

Coleridge, S.T., "Biographia Literaria" ("Everyman's Library").

De Quincey, T., "Lake Poets."

Hazlitt, W., "First Acquaintance with Poets."

Cottle, J., "Reminiscences of Coleridge and Southey."

Pater, W., "Appreciations."

Shairp, J.C., "Studies in Poetry and Philosophy."

Sarrazin, Gabriel, "La Renaissance de la Poésie Anglaise, 1798-1889."

Brandl, Alois, "S.T. Coleridge and the English Romantic School."

BIBLIOGRAPHY:

Haney, J.L., "A Bibliography of Samuel Taylor Coleridge."

INTRODUCTION

I. SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE

I. THE BEGINNINGS

Coleridge lived in what may safely be called the most momentous period of modern history. In
the year following his birth Warren Hastings was appointed first governor-general of India,
where he maintained English empire during years of war with rival nations, and where he committed
those acts of cruelty and tyranny which called forth the greatest eloquence of the greatest
of English orators, in the famous impeachment trial at Westminster, when Coleridge was a sixteen-year-old
schoolboy in London. A few years before his birth the liberal philosophy of France had found
a popular voice in the writings of Rousseau, which became the gospel of revolution throughout
Europe in Coleridge's youth and early manhood. "The New Héloise" in the field of sentiment
and of the relation of the sexes, "The Social Contract" In political theory, and "Émile" in
matters of education, were books whose influence upon Coleridge's generation it would be hard
to estimate. When Coleridge was four years old the English colonies in America declared their
independence and founded a new nation upon the natural rights of man,--a nation that has grown
to be the mightiest and most beneficent on the globe. Coleridge was seventeen when the French
Revolution broke out; he was forty-three when Napoleon was sent to St. Helena. He saw the whole
career of the greatest political upheaval and of the greatest military genius of the modern
world. Fox, Pitt, and Burke,--the greatest Liberal orator, the greatest Parliamentary leader,
and the greatest philosophic statesman that England has produced--were at the height of their
glory when Coleridge went up to Cambridge in 1791.

In literature--naturally, since literature is but an interpretation of life--the age was not
less remarkable. Dr. Johnson was still alive when Coleridge came up to school at Christ's Hospital,
Goldsmith had died eight years before. But a new spirit was abroad in the younger generation.
Macpherson's "Fingal," alleged to be a translation from the ancient Gaelic poet Ossian, had
appeared in 1760; Thomas Percy's "Reliques of Ancient English Poetry," a collection of folk-ballads
and rude verse-romances such as the common people cherished but critics had long refused to
consider as poetry, was published in 1765. These two books were of prime importance in fostering
a new taste in literature,--a love of natural beauty, of simplicity, and of rude strength.
The new taste hailed with delight the appearance of a native lyric genius in Burns, whose first
volume of poems was printed in 1786. It welcomed also the homely, simple sweetness, what Coleridge
and Lamb called the "divine chit-chat," of Cowper, whose "Task" appeared in the preceding year.
But it was in Coleridge himself and his close contemporaries and followers that the splendor
of the new poetry showed itself. He was two years younger than Wordsworth, a year younger than
Scott; he was sixteen at the birth of Byron, twenty at that of Shelley, twenty-four at that
of Keats; and he outlived all of them except Wordsworth. His genius blossomed early. "The Ancient
Mariner," his greatest poem, was published some years before Wordsworth's "Ode on the Intimations
of Immortality" was written, or Scott's "Lay of the Last Minstrel." He was in the prime of
life, or what should have been the prime of life--forty years old--when Byron burst into sudden
fame with the first two cantos of "Childe Harold" in 1812; he was forty-six when Keats published
"Endymion"; he was fifty-one when Shelley was drowned. And of all this gifted company Coleridge,
though not the strongest character or the most prolific poet, was the profoundest intellect
and the most originative poetic spirit.

There was little hint, however, of future greatness or of fellowship with great names in his
birth and early circumstances. His father was a country clergyman and schoolmaster in the village
of Ottery St. Mary, in Devonshire, a simple-hearted unworldly man, full of curious learning
and not very attentive to practical affairs. His mother managed the household and brought up
the children. Both his parents were of simple West-country stock; but his father, having a
natural turn for study and having done well in his early manhood as a schoolmaster, went at
the age of thirty-one as a sizar, or poor student, to Sidney-Sussex College, Cambridge, took
orders, and was afterwards given the living of Ottery St. Mary. Here he continued his beloved
work of teaching, in addition to his pastoral duties, and by means of this combination won
the humble livelihood which, through his wife's careful economy, sufficed for rearing his large
family. Coleridge tells us that his father "had so little of parental ambition in him that
he had destined his children to be blacksmiths, etc." (though he had "resolved that I should
be a parson"), "and had accomplished his intention but for my mother's pride and spirit of
aggrandizing her family." Several of the children rewarded their mother's care by distinguishing
themselves in a modest way in the army or in the church, but the only one about whom the world
is curious now was the youngest of the ten, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who was born at Ottery
St. Mary, October 21, 1772.

The essential traits of his later character appeared in his early childhood. Almost from infancy
he lived in his imagination rather than in the world of reality. "Sensibility, imagination,
vanity, sloth," were "prominent and manifest" in his character before he was eight years old.
Such is his own account of his childhood, written to his friend Poole in 1797; and it is an
accurate description, as far as it goes, of the grown man. But of the religious temper, too,
the love of freedom and of virtue, the hatred of injustice, cruelty, and falsehood that guided
his uneven steps through all the pitiful struggle of his middle life, of the conscience that
made his weakness hell to him--of these, too, we may be sure that the beginnings were to be
seen in the boy at Ottery St. Mary, as indeed they were before his eyes in the person of his
father, who, if not a first-rate genius, was, says his son, "a first-rate Christian."

The good vicar died in 1781; and the next year, a "presentation" to Christ's Hospital having
been secured for him, little Samuel, not yet eleven years old, went up to London to enter the
famous old city school.

Most of the boys at Christ's Hospital, then as now, were given a "commercial" education (which
none the less included a very thorough training in Latin); but a few of the most promising
students were each year selected by the masters for a classical training in preparation for
the universities, whence they were known as Grecians. Coleridge was elected a Grecian in 1788.
The famous Boyer--famous for his enthusiasm alike in teaching the classics and in wielding
the birch--laid the foundation of Coleridge's later scholarship. Here, too, Coleridge did a
great amount of reading not laid down in the curriculum,--Latin and Greek poetry and philosophy,
mediaeval science and metaphysics--and won the approval of his teachers by the excellence of
his verses in Greek and Latin, such as boys at school and students at the universities were
expected to write in those days. In the great city school, as in the Devonshire vicarage, he
lived in the imagination, inert of body and rapacious of intellect; but he was solitary no
longer, having found his tongue and among his more intellectual schoolfellows an interested
audience. While yet a boy, he would hold an audience spellbound by his eloquent declamation
or the fervor of his argument till, as Lamb, who was one of his hearers, tells us, "the walls
of the old Grey Friars re-echoed to the accents of the inspired charity boy!" That is the way
his conversation,--or monologue, as it often was,--affected not boys only, but men, and especially
young men, to his dying day. He cast a spell upon men by his speech; upon his schoolfellows,
upon young men at the universities in the Pantisocracy days, upon Lloyd and Poole at Nether
Stowey, upon earnest young thinkers in his last days at Highgate; so that even if he had never
written "The Ancient Mariner" and the Biographia, Literaria he would still be remembered for
the inspiration of his talk.

Further details of the life at Christ's Hospital must be sought in Lamb's two essays, especially
that on "Christ's Hospital Five-and-Thirty Years Ago." In 1791, having secured a Christ's Hospital
"exhibition," he entered Jesus College, Cambridge.

His university life extended over three years, from October, 1791, to December, 1794. It was
an unhappy time for him and an uneasy time for his respectable relatives, for reasons that
were partly in his own nature and partly in the temper of the times.

Even Boyer's severe training, while it had made him a hard student and an unusual scholar for
his years, had failed to give him what he most needed as a balance to his intellect and imagination,
stability of character. There is evidence that after the first few months, during which the
habits of his hard school life had not yet broken, the new liberty of university life led him
into extravagance, if not dissipation. Work he doubtless did (he won the Browne medal for a
Greek ode on the slave-trade in 1792), but fitfully, giving less and less attention to his
regular studies and more to conviviality and, above all, to dreams of literary fame. He wrote
verses after various models, sentimental, fanciful, or gallant; he was enthusiastic in praise
of a contemporary sonneteer, the Rev. William Bowles, whose "divine sensibility" seemed to
him the height of poetic feeling; and in connection with Wordsworth's younger brother Christopher,
who entered Cambridge in 1793, he formed a literary society that discussed, among other things,
Wordsworth's volume of early poetry, "Descriptive Sketches," published in that year. Wordsworth
himself was a Cambridge man, but had taken his degree in 1791 and gone abroad, so that the
two men whose personal friendship was to mean so much in English poetry did not meet until
1796. Already in 1793, however, Coleridge had developed political theories, or rather sympathies,
which were preparing him for fellowship with Wordsworth.

The French Revolution, which, after years of preparation, took concrete shape in 1789, did
not look to young Englishmen in 1791-4 as it looks to us now, nor even as it was to look to
those same Englishmen in 1800. In those first years warm-hearted young enthusiasts at the universities
saw in the violence of their fellow-men across the Channel only the struggles of the beautiful
Spirit of Liberty bursting the chains of age-long tyranny and corruption and calling men up
to the heights to breathe diviner air.

  "Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive,
  But to be young was very Heaven!"

wrote Wordsworth afterwards; and in the glow of his young idealism he had gone over to France
in the autumn of 1791 and was on the point of throwing in his lot with the revolutionists,
when his parents compelled his return by cutting off his supplies. And many who, like Coleridge,
merely watched from afar shared his faith that a new order of things was to be established,
wherein Love should be Law and man's inhumanity to man become but a memory of things outworn.

Less generous men, with a selfish interest in established privileges; timid men, who looked
with terror upon any prospect of change; older and wiser men, who better understood the foundations
of social order and the nature of man--all these looked with distrust upon the revolutionary
idealism that was spreading from France through the younger generation of Englishmen. The new
notions of liberty, it was felt, threatened not only the vested rights of property and the
prescriptions of rank, but the Church, too, and religion. Some of the would-be reformers were
avowed atheists; some (Coleridge and his friends, for instance, in the Pantisocracy period)
were communists. In general, they ascribed all the evils of society to "institutions," and
wanted them abolished.

Just how far Coleridge had gone in this direction by the autumn of 1793 we do not know; far
enough at least to disturb his view of the future, to worry his elder brother George, a clergyman
and school-teacher, who had in some measure filled a father's place to the young genius, and,
most important of all, to alarm and distress a gentle girl in London. For before he left Christ's
Hospital for Cambridge he had become intimate at the house of a Mrs. Evans, and most of the
letters preserved from his first two years at the University were addressed to her or to one
of her two daughters, Anne and Mary. With the latter Coleridge was in love; and that she had
some regard for him is apparent from a letter she sent him in 1794. Before that, however, Coleridge
had taken a step that seemed likely to close at once his college career and his prospects of
literary fame. The reasons have not been recorded: probably pecuniary embarrassment, the yeasty
state of his religious and political ideas, and impatience or despondency over his love-affair
with Mary Evans, combined to precipitate his flight; what we know is that he ran away from
Cambridge and in December, 1793, enlisted as a dragoon in the army.

Coleridge had hardly taken the step before he repented of it. His letters to his brother George,
who with other friends bestirred himself for Coleridge's release as soon as his whereabouts
was discovered, are rather distressing in their self-abasement. The efforts of his friends
were successful and in April he returned to the University, where a public admonition was the
extent of his punishment, and he continued in receipt of his Christ's Hospital exhibition.

But Coleridge's college days were practically over. He was now nearly twenty-two years old,
and the revolutionary unrest which had doubtless contributed to his first escapade soon resulted
in the formation of schemes that took him away from Cambridge for good and all. In June, 1794,
he made a visit to an old schoolfellow at Oxford. Here he met Robert Southey of Balliol College.
A friendship sprang up between them out of which, before the end of the summer, grew the Utopian
scheme of Pantisocracy. A company of gentlemen and ladies were to emigrate to America, take
up lands in the Susquehanna valley, and there establish an ideal community in which all should
bear rule equally and find happiness in a life of justice, labor, and love. The education of
the young in the principles of ideal humanity was an important part of the scheme. We are reminded
of the Brook Farm experiment in New England a generation later, which bears a daughter's likeness
to Pantisocracy, the chief difference being that the New England enthusiasts were mature men
and women and really put the idea into practice, whereas the Pantisocrats were for the most
part collegians and never got beyond the stage of talking and writing about their plans. The
scheme was further elaborated at Bristol, where Coleridge, returning from a vacation tour in
Wales, again met Southey, and at Bath, the home of Southey and of Southey's betrothed and her
sister, Edith and Sarah Fricker--"two sisters, milliners of Bath," as Byron contemptuously
called them.

To the other sister, Sarah, Coleridge rather precipitately engaged himself. His love for Mary
Evans was not dead, but he seems to have despaired of winning her and to have determined, by
uniting himself domestically with Southey and his friends, to make retreat from their communistic
scheme impossible. A few weeks later he is back at Cambridge, tortured apparently between his
old love and his new engagement. Mary Evans has written to him deploring his wild notions and
the mad plan of Pantisocracy, yet confident that he has "too much sensibility to be an infidel."
Southey has reproved him rather sharply for failing to write to his betrothed at Bath. Our
next glimpse of him is at London, discussing poetry and philosophy with Lamb at the "Salutation
and Cat" tavern and perhaps trying to get a sight of Mary Evans. In December he is again at
Bristol, in lively correspondence with Southey about democracy, Pantisocracy, and poetry, but
at the same time he addresses a last appeal to Miss Evans. Her answer is kind, but final; that
chapter is closed, and Coleridge writes to Southey that he will "do his duty," by which he
means apparently that he will be faithful to Pantisocracy and marry Sarah Fricker.

The Pantisocracy scheme could not in the nature of things be long-lived. As a matter of fact
it lasted little more than a year, ending in a rupture between the two leading spirits just
when they became brothers-in-law. Coleridge spent the summer of 1795 in Bristol in company
with Southey, writing and lecturing. In October he was married to Sarah Fricker in "St. Mary's
Redcliff, poor Chatterton's church." In November Southey married Edith Fricker and set sail
for Lisbon, where his uncle was the English chaplain; and Pantisocracy was dead.

The break with Southey was the natural result of attempting to force through a scheme impracticable
in itself and doubly impracticable for the men who conceived it. Its collapse did not altogether
sever their literary relations. The collaboration begun in "The Fall of Robespierre" (Cambridge,
1794) was continued in Southey's "Joan of Arc" (1796), to which Coleridge contributed the part
afterwards printed (with some additions) as "The Destiny of Nations," and in Coleridge's first
volume of "Poems" (Bristol, 1796). A more important contributor to this volume, however, was
Charles Lamb, whose initials were appended to four of the pieces. The publisher of both editions
was Joseph Cottle, a bookseller of Bristol, who played the part of provincial Murray to the
young poets in these years.

Meanwhile Coleridge, after a period of lecturing and projecting, had as we have seen married
Sarah Fricker, with whom he was now very much in love, and had begun housekeeping in a cottage
at Clevedon near the Bristol Channel. The beauty of the place and his happiness there are celebrated
in "The Aeolian Harp" and "Reflections on Leaving a Place of Retirement" (better known by its
opening words, "Low was our pretty cot"). His next residence was in Bristol--rather a base
of operations than a home, for Coleridge was on the road much of the time, lecturing, preaching,
soliciting subscriptions for his political and philosophical paper "The Watchman" (which ran
from March to May, 1796), and trying in various other ways to provide for his family, which
was increased by the birth of a son in September, 1796. At last in December he secured the
little cottage at Nether Stowey in the Quantock Hills (south of the Bristol Channel, in Somerset),
close to the house of his beloved friend, Thomas Poole, where he lived until his departure
for Germany in September, 1798.

II. AT NETHER STOWEY

The Stowey period was the blossoming time of Coleridge's genius. All the poems in this volume
except the last four, and besides these "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison," "Frost at Midnight,"
and "Fears in Solitude"--the bulk of his achievement in poetry--were either written or begun
in 1797 and 1798. It will be proper, then, to dwell a little on his circumstances, his friends,
and his ideas during these two years.

The means of livelihood for himself and his family when he went to Stowey were a subscription
of about £40 that Poole and some friends got together for him, £20 that Cottle paid for the
second edition of the "Poems," the promise of £80 from the father of Charles Lloyd, who was
to live with him and study under his direction, and such money as he could earn by reviews
and magazine articles, which he estimated at £40 a year; not a munificent provision for a household
of three adults and a child. But the theories of the simple life that had made Pantisocracy
seem a feasible project still inspired him with confidence. "Sixteen shillings," he wrote to
Poole, "would cover all the weekly expenses of my wife, infant, and myself. This I say from
my wife's own calculations." Further, he will support himself by the labor of his hands. "If
you can instruct me to manage an acre and a half of land, and to raise in it, with my own hands,
all kinds of vegetables and grain, enough for myself and my wife and sufficient to feed a pig
or two with the refuse, I hope that you will have served me most effectually by placing me
out of the necessity of being served." This was in December, just before he moved to Stowey.
In February he wrote from his new home to another friend: "From seven till half past eight
I work in my garden; from breakfast till twelve I read and compose, then read again, feed the
pigs, poultry, etc., till two o'clock; after dinner work again till tea; from tea till supper,
review. So jogs the day, and I am happy.... I raise potatoes and all manner of vegetables,
have an orchard, and shall raise corn with the spade, enough for my family. We have two pigs,
and ducks and geese. A cow would not answer the keep: we have whatever milk we want from T. Poole."

There is a suspicious regularity about this schedule. Lamb wrote from London in January: "Is
it a farm that you have got? And what does your worship know about farming?" His agricultural
activity, in the month of February, must have been chiefly prospective; and we may safely assume
that Poole supplied other things besides milk, and that the poet spent more time reading, dreaming,
and talking than he did raising potatoes. A good deal of time must have been spent in the actual
composition of his poetry, including his play "Osorio," which was written in 1797, and in studying
the landscape beauties of the Quantocks. After the coming of the Wordsworths to Alfoxden he
spent much of the time walking between Alfoxden and Stowey, or further afield with Wordsworth
and his sister. "My walks," he wrote afterwards, "were almost daily on the top of Quantock,
and among its sloping coombs. This does not sound much like "raising corn with the spade."

On Sundays he would sometimes preach before such Unitarian congregations, within walking distance,
as cared to hear him. But as he would take no pay for his services his preaching contributed
nothing toward the support of his family. Lloyd, who was epileptic and subject to moody variation
in his attachments, was but an irregular housemate after the first few months, and his contribution
to the household expenses was correspondingly uncertain. The future looked so dark in October,
1797, that in spite of misgivings and former scruples he had concluded that he "must become
a Unitarian minister, as a less evil than starvation." Accordingly he was in Shrewsbury in
January, 1798, preaching in the Unitarian church and on the point of accepting the pastorate
at a salary of £150 a year, when the sky brightened in another quarter. Thomas and Josiah Wedgwood,
sons of the famous potter and friends of Thomas Poole, offered him an equal sum annually as
a free gift. They were wealthy men, well able to afford it; they attached no condition to the
gift except that he should devote himself entirely to the study of poetry and philosophy, which
was precisely what he wanted to do; and he was not long in determining to accept the offer.
"I accepted it," he wrote to Wordsworth while still at Shrewsbury, "on the presumption that
I had talents, honesty, and propensities to perseverant effort." The propensities, alas, remained
propensities, never acquiring the force of habit. The pension, however, continued to be paid
in full until 1812, when Josiah Wedgwood withdrew his half of it. The other half, upon the
death of Thomas Wedgwood in 1805, had been secured to Coleridge for life; and this annuity
must have constituted the chief reliance of Mrs. Coleridge for many years.

If Coleridge did not prosper financially, he was at least fortunate in his friends; and a man's
friends are after all the best testimony to the character of his mind and heart. When he went
to Stowey in December, 1796, he was again on good terms with Southey, though the enthusiasm
of their first fellowship was gone. The friendship with Lamb, begun in their school-days and
renewed at the "Salutation and Cat" in 1794, was maintained by an eager correspondence and
by Lamb's visit to Stowey in July, 1797; and although Lloyd's vagaries led to a coolness between
the old friends in the following year, the breach was soon healed, and the friendship continued
till death. Another with whom Coleridge maintained a voluminous correspondence in 1796-7 was
John Thelwall, theoretical democrat, atheist, and admirer of Godwin, whose visit to Coleridge
and Wordsworth in the summer of 1797 so shocked the good conservatives of the neighborhood
that Wordsworth had to leave Alfoxden in consequence of it. But without doubt the dearest and
most influential friend Coleridge had before the Wordsworths came into his life was Thomas
Poole. It was in order to be in daily intercourse with Poole that he moved to Stowey; and Poole's
hesitation about securing the cottage for him, arising, Coleridge seemed to fear, from imperfect
confidence and friendship, was a source of agonized apprehension to the sensitive poet. When
we consider that Poole was a self-educated man, a Somersetshire tanner with no claim to literary
genius or philosophical acquirements, Coleridge's devotion to him and dependence on him bring
out in a strong light the substantial, elemental character of the man. "O Poole!" Coleridge
wrote to him from Germany afterwards, "you are a noble heart as ever God made!" Poole had indeed
in a marked degree the genius for friendship. Strength of character, sympathy, and self-effacing
devotion, combined with prudence and sincerity, made this man a tower of refuge for the unstable
spirit of the poet.

No other single relation, however, can compare in importance, for Coleridge's poetic development,
with that which sprang up in the summer of 1797 between him and William Wordsworth. Just when
they first met is not recorded. We have seen that Coleridge was acquainted with Wordsworth's
younger brother in his college days, and discussed with him Wordsworth's first published poems.
In January, 1797, he told Cottle that he wished to submit his "Visions of the Maid of Arc"
to Wordsworth for criticism. The earliest definite record of their personal acquaintance is
a letter Coleridge wrote to Cottle while on a visit to Wordsworth at Racedown (just over the
Somerset border in Dorsetshire) early in June. About the beginning of July he is again at Racedown;
and when he returns he brings Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy with him for a visit. On the
7th Lamb arrived for his long-planned reunion with Coleridge. The second week of July, 1797,
was thus a rich and long-remembered time for all of them, despite the fact that Mrs. Coleridge
"accidentally emptied a skillet of boiling milk" on her husband's foot, which confined him
"during the whole time of Charles Lamb's stay." The others took long walks in the neighborhood,
amid such scenery as is described in "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison," a poem that admirably
voices the happiness, of those days of spiritual fellowship. The Wordsworths did not return
to Racedown. "By a combination of curious circumstances a gentleman's seat, with a park and
woods, elegantly and completely furnished,... in the most beautiful and romantic situation
by the seaside, four miles from Stowey--this we have got for Wordsworth at the rent of twenty-three
pounds a year, taxes included!" Coleridge triumphantly announced to Southey; and in this house,
the Manor of Alfoxden, the Wordsworths remained for a year, in daily companionship with Coleridge
and surrounded by scenes of natural beauty that have left a lasting mark on the work of both poets.

What the friendship with Coleridge meant to Wordsworth may best be seen in "The Prelude: or,
Growth of a Poet's Mind," Wordsworth's greatest long poem, written some years afterwards and
addressed throughout to Coleridge.

  "There is no grief, no sorrow, no despair,
  No languor, no dejection, no dismay,
  No absence scarcely can there be, for those
  Who love as we do."

What Wordsworth was to Coleridge is more important for us here. The admiration which the brilliant
child of genius felt for the great preacher-poet is chiefly, one feels, an admiration for his
character. As a matter of fact, Wordsworth had written nothing, up to his coming to Alfoxden,
that would have preserved his name as a poet, nothing so noteworthy or promising as what Coleridge
had already written. But Coleridge felt in this lean and thoughtful young man a strength of
mind, a depth and sureness of heart that compelled his allegiance and even imparted, for the
time, some of that resolution in which he was by nature so sadly deficient. The character of
their friendship is to be seen not only in the published work of the two poets from this time
on (notably in "Dejection"), but perhaps even more clearly in Dorothy Wordsworth's Journal
and in Coleridge's letters. "I speak with heart-felt sincerity," he wrote to Cottle in June,
1797, "and (I think) unblinded judgment, when I tell you that I feel myself a little man by
his side, and yet do not think myself the less man than I formerly thought myself.... T. Poole's
opinion of Wordsworth is that he is the greatest man he ever knew; I coincide." Wordsworth's
influence is evident in a letter from Coleridge to his brother George in April, 1798: "I love
fields and woods and mountains with almost a visionary fondness. And because I have found benevolence
and quietness growing within me as that fondness has increased, therefore I should wish to
be the means of implanting it in others, and to destroy the bad passions not by combating them
but by keeping them in inaction." Under the calming and clarifying influence of the stronger
Northern spirit the fever of his revolutionary dreams abated, he found happiness in the conscious
exercise of his poetic powers, and for one year in his troubled existence his genius showed
itself in all its splendor.

The immediate poetic result of their friendship was the "Lyrical Ballads," published by Cottle
in September, 1798. The origin of the work has been described both by Wordsworth (in a prefatory
note to "We Are Seven") and by Coleridge (in the Biographia Literaria, chap. xiv.). At first,
they were to collaborate in writing a poem the proceeds of which should pay the expenses of
a little tour they were making when the plan was thought of, in November, 1797; and thus "The
Ancient Mariner" was begun. As this poem grew under Coleridge's "shaping-spirit of imagination"
Wordsworth saw that he "could only be a clog" upon its progress, and it was resigned to Coleridge.
Wordsworth was to illustrate the former principle, Coleridge the latter, and the proceeds of
the book were to go toward the expenses of a trip to Germany, decided on in the spring of 1798.
The bulk of the volume was Wordsworth's, and was typically Wordsworthian, ranging from such
simple ballads of humble incident as "Goody Blake" and "The Idiot Boy" to the magnificent blank
verse of "Tintern Abbey"; Coleridge's share consisted of a brief poem called "The Nightingale,"
two short extracts from "Osorio," and "The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere."

Apart from the "Lyrical Ballads" Coleridge conceived and finished between June, 1797, and the
departure for Germany in 1798, and published in the latter year, "Fire, Famine, and Slaughter,"
"Frost at Midnight," "Fears in Solitude," and "France." He conceived and partly executed, but
did not then publish, "Christabel," "Kubla Khan," "Love," "The Ballad of the Dark Ladie," and
"The Three Graves." Thus, all Coleridge's best poetry, with the exception of those three saddest
of voices out of a broken life, "Dejection" (1802), the lines to Wordsworth on hearing him
read "The Prelude" (1807), and "Youth and Age" (1823-32), belongs either wholly or in its inception
to the year of his fellowship with the Wordsworths in the Quantock Hills.

Of his political, religious, and literary opinions at this time he has left a fairly adequate
account in his published writings and his correspondence, especially in the Biographia Literaria
and in the letter to the Rev. George Coleridge referred to above. The first year of his married
life saw him still, in spite of the failure of Pantisocracy, an eager visionary reformer upborne
by generous enthusiasm and ardent religious feeling. However much he may have consorted with
unbelievers like Thelwall and distressed his good brother George by his heterodoxy, he was
by nature deeply religious. He tried in his letters to recover Thelwall from his "atheism,"
though he heartily approved a sentiment expressed by the latter: "He who thinks and feels will
be virtuous; and he who is absorbed in self will be vicious, whatever may be his speculative
opinions." Godwin's system of "Justice," with its soulless logic, he abhorred. He preached
often in Unitarian churches. Under Wordsworth's influence his thoughts turned in great measure
from contemporary politics to more fundamental matters. Always his poetry had been the utterance
of his essential being. "I feel strongly and I think strongly," he wrote to Thelwall in 1796,
"but I seldom feel without thinking or think without feeling. Hence, though my poetry has in
general a hue of tenderness or passion over it, yet it seldom exhibits unmixed and simple tenderness
and passion. My philosophical opinions are blended with or deduced from my feelings." Wordsworth
gave his feelings a new object and his philosophy a higher aim. In April of the second year
at Stowey, in the letter to his brother already quoted, Coleridge wrote: "I have for some time
past withdrawn myself totally from the consideration of immediate causes, which are infinitely
complex and uncertain, to muse on fundamental and general causes, the 'causae causarum.' I
devote myself to such works as encroach not on the anti-social passions--in poetry, to elevate
the imagination and set the affections in right tune by the beauty of the inanimate impregnated
as with a living soul by the presence of life--in prose to the seeking with patience and a
slow, very slow mind, 'Quid sumus, et quidnam victuri gignimus,'--what our faculties are and
what they are capable of becoming." This last sentence is a sort of half-prophetic summary
of his life's work; but the poetry soon gave way to the prose, and he never again so nearly
realized his poetical ideal as he had already done in "The Ancient Mariner."

Of his person and the impression he made upon people at this time there are various contemporary
accounts. To Thelwall, in November, 1796, he sent the following description of himself: "...
my face, unless when animated by immediate eloquence, expresses great sloth, and great, indeed
almost idiotic good-nature. 'Tis a mere carcass of a face; fat, flabby, and expressive chiefly
of inexpression. Yet I am told that my eyes, eyebrows, and forehead are physiognomically good;
but of this the deponent knoweth not. As to my shape, 'tis a good shape enough if measured,
but my gait is awkward, and the walk of the whole man indicates indolence capable of energies....
I cannot breathe through my nose, so my mouth, with sensual thick lips, is almost always open.
In conversation I am impassioned, and oppose what I deem error with an eagerness which is often
mistaken for personal asperity; but I am ever so swallowed up in the thing said that I forget
my opponent. Such am I." The Rev. Leapidge Smith, in his "Reminiscences of an Octogenarian,"
remembered him as "a tall, dark, handsome young man, with long, black, flowing hair; eyes not
merely dark, but black, and keenly penetrating; a fine forehead, a deep-toned, harmonious voice;
a manner never to be forgotten, full of life, vivacity, and kindness; dignified in person and,
added to all these, exhibiting the elements of his future greatness."[1] Hazlitt, in "My First
Acquaintance with Poets" (a paper that every student of Coleridge's life and poetry should
read), describing him as he appeared on his visit to Hazlitt's father at Wem in 1798, says:
"His complexion was at that time clear, and even bright. And Dorothy Wordsworth (to close with
a contemporary and sympathetic impression) set him down in her journal after their first meeting
at Racedown thus: "He is a wonderful man. The friendly and keen-sighted woman gives a more
sympathetic picture than the others; but there must have been truth, too, in the view of the
equally keen-sighted and less friendly Hazlitt, whose description accords well with Coleridge's
self-portraiture, and in the last sarcastic item, too well, with the remainder of the poet's
career.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: "Letters of Samuel Taylor Coleridge," ed. by E.H. Coleridge, Vol. I., p. 180, note.]

[Footnote 2: The uncertainty as to the color of his eyes is a tribute to their expressiveness.
Carlyle described him in 1824 as having "a pair of strange brown, timid, yet earnest-looking
eyes." Emerson visited him in 1833 and found him "with bright blue eyes and fine clear complexion."]

III. THE REST OF THE STORY

Coleridge lived for thirty-six years after he left Stowey for Germany in 1798. His fame as
a poet grew as the world became acquainted with and learned to feel the peculiar charm of his
poetry, and he was even more famous, for a while, as a literary critic and a moral philosopher.
But they were years of weak-willed wandering, of vast hazy plans and feeble performance, lighted
only here and there by glimpses of fragmentary accomplishment, and that seldom in poetry. Keats
died at twenty-six, leaving behind him a body of poetry hardly less wonderful than Coleridge
had fashioned at the same age; and another poet sang of him:

  "The bloom, whose petals, nipt before they blew,
  Died on the promise of the fruit, is waste."

In Coleridge the poet died at nearly the same age, almost as completely as if the man himself
had passed "within the twilight chamber ... of white Death"; and "Dejection" is that poet's
dirge. The remaining years need therefore but few words.

Coleridge had taken opium, perhaps as early as his school-days, for relief from neuralgia.
He had recourse to it in March, 1796, for sleeplessness; in the following November, for relief
from violent nervous pains; and near the close of the Stowey period, in May, 1798, when the
vagaries of Lloyd, the estrangement from Lamb, domestic anxiety, and physical suffering had
reduced him to a state of extreme nervous wretchedness, he again took refuge in opiates, of
which "Kubla Khan" is partly the result. He returned from Germany in 1799, worked for a while
on a newspaper in London and on a translation of Schiller's "Wallenstein," and in the summer
of 1800 removed to Keswick in Cumberland, in the Lake Country, where the Wordsworths had already
established themselves. Here, in the autumn of 1800, he strove to finish "Christabel," and
did finish the second part. In the winter and spring he suffered from a complicated illness,
in which he again had recourse to laudanum; and from the spring of 1801 he was confirmed in
the opium habit, sinking often to pitiful depths of moral and physical misery. He was in the
Mediterranean, chiefly at Malta, from 1804 to 1806. His wife and children remained at Keswick,
where Southey and his family had become co-tenants with them of Greta Hall. Southey, it might
almost be said, took care of Coleridge's family henceforth; for Coleridge had begun to find
his own fireside an intolerable place as early as 1802, lived little at home, and made a formal
separation from his wife in 1808,--though they saw each other occasionally after that and the
Wedgwood annuity continued to be paid to Mrs. Coleridge. In 1809 he was living with the Wordsworths
at Grasmere, where he wrote several numbers of a politico-philosophical paper called "The Friend."
About the close of 1810 he was taken in hand by a Mr. and Mrs. Morgan of Hammersmith, near
London, under whose care he kept the opium in check sufficiently to give his famous lectures
on the "Principles of Poetry" in the winter of 1811-12, and another series in the early summer
on Shakespeare. In the winter following, his play of "Remorse," a recast of the "Osorio" of
1797, was acted in London with some success. In the winter of 1813-14 he lectured, in a "conversational"
fashion, at Bristol. He also wrote irregularly for the London papers during these years. But
his studies, since his return from Germany, had been directed to metaphysics, and especially
to the philosophical bases of poetry and theology; and the last twenty years of his life, at
least, were occupied with plans for a great philosophical work covering these two fields of
thought. One of the fragments of the great work that actually came to light, the Biographia
Literaria, seems to have been sent to the printers in 1815. A collected edition of his poetry
was also begun while he was under the Morgans' care.

From 1816 till his death in 1834 he lived in comparative peace, if not in happiness, with a
Mr. Gilman of Highgate near London, an apothecary. Gilman and his wife were able so far to
wean him from the drug, or to regulate his use of it, that he brought to the birth something
of his vast plans in criticism and philosophy, notably the Biographia Literaria (1817) and
the "Aids to Reflection" (1825). The beginning of his stay with Gilman was also marked by the
publication of "Christabel" and "Kubla Khan" (1816), and of a collected edition of his other
poems (including "The Ancient Mariner," considerably revised) under the title "Sibylline Leaves"
(1817). But the poems that were not finished in the first great period at Stowey remained unfinished.
He talked divinely ("an archangel a little damaged," Lamb said), and both by his talk and his
metaphysical writings profoundly influenced the literature and philosophy of the century, both
in England and America; but the poet in him was dead. Rather the resort to narcotics and the
inability to control his creative faculty are alike symptoms of a temperamental malady which
had its roots in his nature close to the seat of that special faculty. Under a favorable conjunction
of outward circumstance and inward state, imagination came; it possessed him, and he labored
in it, happily. Afterwards he could revise what he had shaped, analyze it philosophically,
perfect some details of it, but he could not proceed in the creative act after the inspiration
had left him. His own description of his nature--"indolence capable of energies"--is accurate
as far as it goes. The opium, resorted to often, no doubt, to quicken the dreams in his brain
as well as to relieve his bodily suffering, helped to enfeeble his will; but the "indolence"
was in him before he became addicted to opium, and he was never "capable of energies" at the
call of duty, but only at the call of his "shaping spirit," over whose coming and going he
had no control.

Poetically it is perhaps as well. Had he been like his friend Wordsworth in strength and steadiness
of purpose--which is to suppose him another nature than he was--his life would have been happier
and more edifying, but he would hardly have given us anything better than "Christabel" and
"The Ancient Mariner." Romantic poetry of the higher type is essentially the creature of mood.
Even Wordsworth's long and conscientious labors produced but a small bulk of poetry of this
character, amid dreary reaches of uninspired preaching. Coleridge waited--in despondency often,
in self-upbraidings, in the temporary deception of opium dreams with their consequent misery--for
the return of the spirit; and it did not come.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: From the lines addressed to Wordsworth after hearing him read "The Prelude," in 1807.]

II. COLERIDGE'S POEMS.

"THE ANCIENT MARINER"

"The Ancient Mariner" was first printed in the first edition of "Lyrical Ballads," 1798, again
with considerable changes in the second edition, 1800, and without further significant change
in the editions of 1802 and 1805. Its fifth appearance was in "Sibylline Leaves," 1817, again
with some important changes, and the addition of the Latin motto and the marginal gloss. In
the "Poetical Works," 1828, and again in the "Poetical Works," 1829, the poem appeared in its
final form as we now have it,--differing very little from the form it had in "Sibylline Leaves."
One or two significant minor changes will be mentioned in the notes.

Coleridge's own account of the genesis of the poem, given in the Biographia Literaria nearly
twenty years later, is interesting. In this form the 'Lyrical Ballads' were published."

Lyrical they hardly were, in any current meaning of that word; they were narrative. But they
were ballads as the word was then understood. The two cardinal points of poetry that Coleridge
says they had in view in this partnership production were both believed to be special marks
of the ballad; the charm of homeliness and simplicity, and the spell of the supernatural and
romantic. Bishop Percy's "Reliques of Ancient English Poetry," 1765, had created a taste for
the traditional poetry of humble folk. Spreading to Germany and uniting there with the sentimental
sensationalism of the eighteenth century, this taste found expression in Burger's "Lenore,"
which in turn had a powerful influence in England, five distinct translations of it appearing
in 1796. Of the distinction so much insisted on by later analysts of the true popular ballad--its
communal origin, its impersonality, its freedom from adornment, its lack of conscious art--the
Englishman of Coleridge's time took no account. "The Ancient Mariner" is not a ballad in the
sense in which "Sir Patrick Spens" or "Young Waters" is a ballad. It is in the highest degree
a work of conscious and individual art. It is rather to be classed, like "Christabel," as a
romance. But it was conceived and written under the influence of the "ballad revival," and
bears many marks of that influence both in its general structure and in its details of workmanship.

Much of the archaic diction and antique spelling, as well as the ruder grotesquerie, that in
the first edition proclaimed its relation to the pseudo-balladry of the time disappeared in
the later editions. But the archaisms, the "unpoetical" diction, and especially the disregard
of tense coherence in the poem as we now have it, contribute greatly to the atmosphere of romance--as
of a story removed alike from the commonplace experience of every day and from familiar literary
conventions--which it was Coleridge's intention to produce. By a few devotional ejaculations--"Heaven's
Mother send us grace!" "To Mary Queen the praise be given!"--we are made to feel that the Ancient
Mariner lived before the Reformation, in the ages of wonder and faith. Repetition, as in many
stanzas of Part IV., is a device caught from the folk-ballad and modified to produce the effect
of a spell, which is so strong a mark of the poem. The abrupt opening, the unannounced transitions
in dialogue, the omission of all but the vital incidents of the story, all belong to the ballad
style. The verse form is what is known as the ballad stanza (stanza of four lines--a line of
four accents followed by one of three, the second and fourth lines riming) variously extended
and modified to suit the mood of the passage. The prose summary in the form of a marginal gloss,
first added in the edition of 1817, is a practice taken from early printed books, but not from
balladry, which is normally oral.

Of the literary qualities of the poem much might be said, but I call attention here to but
two: the organic structure of the story and the character of the imagery, two important aspects
of creative imagination. The seven parts are seven stages of the narrative, each, except the
last, closing with a reference to the Mariner's sin. The story proceeds like the successive
acts of a play. In Part I. the deed is committed; in Part II. the punishment begins; in Part
III. the punishment reaches its climax. Part IV. brings the "turn"; in the crisis of his sufferings
comes the consciousness of fellowship with other creatures and repentance for his cruelty.
Parts V. and VI. relate his penance begun, and his return by supernatural agencies to the world
of human fellowship; and Part VII. brings us back to the opening scene, closing the whole with
a moral. The moral is so plainly set forth that one wonders how Mrs. Barbauld could ever have
complained, as Coleridge tells us she did, that the poem "had no moral." His reply is worth
recording: "I told her that in my opinion the poem had too much; and that the only, or chief
fault, if I might say so, was the obtrusion of the moral sentiment so openly on the reader
as a principle or cause of action in a work of such pure imagination. It ought to have had
no more moral than the Arabian Nights' tale of the merchant's sitting down to eat dates by
the side of a well, and throwing the shells aside, and lo! a genie starts up, and says he must
kill the aforesaid merchant, because one of the date shells had, it seems, put out the eye
of the genie's son." But the poet of 1798 knew better than the metaphysician of 1830. The moral
is as essential a part of the whole poem as moral consciousness is of man; without it the poem
would be without the coherence of human interest which alone can secure for "these shadows
of imagination" "poetic faith." The moral, really, is suffused throughout the work, is the
blood of its being; that it should be formulated at the close is quite in accord with the simplicity
which marked the whole conception of the "Lyrical Ballads," and is moreover perfectly harmonious
with the spirit of the poem itself. There have been poets who seemed to be without the moral
sense, and who have written poetry quite free from any moral, like Poe and his landscape visions,
but wonderful as they are, they are abnormal, and are less great as they are less completely
human. It may be that Wordsworth, as one infers from recollections of the composition of the
poem, suggested the moral plot; but if so it entered at once and completely into Coleridge's
imagination and governed the shaping of the poem from the start. In all the very considerable
changes and omissions that the poem underwent after it was first printed, there was none that
either retrenched from or added to the moral interpretation of the tale.

Of its imagery the most evident characteristic is what may be called the anthropomorphic treatment
of nature. This, although in accord with modern conceptions of primitive culture, is not at
all a mark of the popular ballad. Sun, and moon, and storm-wind, and ocean are in folk-song
sun and moon and wind and water and nothing more; but in "The Ancient Mariner" they are living
beings.

This is the most noticeable of the "modifying colours of imagination" in "The Ancient Mariner."
The practice might be classed as a sort of personification; but how utterly different in its
effect from the conventional "literary" personifications of the eighteenth century--of Gray
in the "Elegy," for instance! Grandeur, and Envy, and Honour, in that admirable poem, are not
real persons to the imagination; the abstraction remains an abstraction. But in Coleridge's
poem all nature is alive with the life of men. Other elements of "that synthetic and magical
power to which we have exclusively appropriated the name of imagination," and which blends
"the idea with the image" and "the sense of novelty and freshness with old and familiar objects"
will be felt as the poem is studied.

Wordsworth related in after years that the suggestion for the poem came from a dream of a phantom
ship told to Coleridge by a friend, and that he (Wordsworth) proposed the shooting of the albatross,
the revenge of the "tutelary spirits," and the "navigation of the ship by the dead men," and
contributed the fourth stanza of the poem and the last two lines of the first stanza of Part
IV. He had been reading Shelvocke's "Voyages," a book in which he had found a description of
albatrosses as they are seen in far southern waters. Other reading that may have suggested
some of the scenery is described in the "Notes" to the Globe edition of Coleridge's poems.
There are also passages and situations in the last two acts of Wordsworth's play, "The Borderers,"
which Coleridge read with great admiration in the summer of 1797, that have evident kinship
with "The Ancient Mariner," and Wordsworth's "Peter Bell" (composed at Alfoxden, but printed
many years later) suggests what the story might have become if Coleridge instead of Wordsworth
had withdrawn from collaboration.

"CHRISTABEL" AND "KUBLA KHAN"

"Christabel" and "Kubla Khan" were first printed in 1816, in a pamphlet along with "The Pains
of Sleep," a sort of contrast to "Kubla Khan" composed in 1803. In the Preface to this pamphlet
Coleridge informs us that the first part of "Christabel" was written at Stowey in 1797 and
the second part at Keswick, Cumberland, in 1800. The poem was intended originally for the "Lyrical
Ballads," and it was with the hope of finishing it for the second edition that Coleridge took
it up again in the fall of 1800. There is a good deal of uncertainty as to just how much of
the work was done at that time. In two letters of that period he speaks of it as "running up
to 1300 lines," and "swelled into a poem of 1400 lines," so that it is no longer suitable for
the "Lyrical Ballads"; but hardly half of this amount was printed in the 1816 pamphlet or has
ever been found since. One suspects that already in 1800 dreams and projects had begun to be
confounded with performance. On the whole, it seems probable that "Christabel" owes little
to the forced efforts of his first year in the Lake country. Like most of the other poems in
this volume, it is a product of the great year at Stowey. He himself told a friend in later
years: "I had the whole of the two cantos in my mind before I began it," adding very truly,
"certainly the first canto is more perfect, has more of the true wild weird spirit than the last."

Down to the close of his life he dreamed of finishing this work. He amused his listeners at
Highgate with a continuation of the plot; and in 1833 he declared that if he "were perfectly
free from vexation and were in the ad libitum hearing of fine music" he could yet finish "Christabel,"
"for I have, as I always had, the whole plan entire from beginning to end in my mind; but I
fear I could not carry on with equal success the execution of the idea." Wordsworth had a different
recollection.

  "The unfinished window in Aladdin's tower
    Unfinished must remain,"

wrote Longfellow, alluding to "The Dolliver Romance" that Hawthorne left incomplete at his
death. There is strong kinship, moral and artistic, between Coleridge and Hawthorne; both believed
that the heart is more than the head, and neither could force his imagination to work under
unfavorable conditions. But Hawthorne's failure of imagination came at the end of a fruitful
and consistent career, and his life failed with it; in Coleridge the poet died half a lifetime
before the man, and left the man--the preacher and philosopher--to lament his loss.

Whether or not Coleridge had the story complete in his mind, what we have is a fragment, and
does not enable us to divine, as some broken statues do, the plan of the whole. What it gives
us is the romantic mood, the sense of "witchery by daylight," and this it does more hauntingly
than anything else in the English language. It is a series of magical and unforgetable pictures.
It owes a good deal to the old verse romances and ballads that so impressed the imagination
in those days of the mediaeval revival, but it was itself a far stronger influence. It operated
as an original force, both by its form and by its spirit, upon the poetic imagination of the
first half of the nineteenth century more widely and deeply than the work of any other man,
Burns and Keats not excepted. Scott heard it read from manuscript, and the "Lay of the Last
Minstrel," with the series of verse romances that followed, may almost be called a result of
that reading; the verse form of Scott's romances certainly is. Poe's poetry is as far as the
poles removed from Scott's; yet a close study of Poe's work shows the influence of "Christabel"
to be even deeper here than in the "Lay of the Last Minstrel."

Coleridge was fully aware of a special power, both of imagination and of verse-music, in the
poem. His attempts to complete it in 1800 brought persistently to his mind the project of a
philosophy of poetry, and especially of this poem, as we may infer from a letter to Poole in
March, 1801: "I shall ... immediately publish my 'Christabel,' with two essays annexed to it,
on the 'Preternatural' and on 'Metre.'" This is not to be taken quite literally. The accentual
principle was assuredly nothing new in English verse, and syllable-counting, though introduced
by Chaucer, had to be reintroduced by the Renaissance poets and did not become an unquestioned
convention till the latter part of the seventeenth century. But the return to free accentual
verse in the "Christabel" was an innovation at the beginning of the nineteenth century. It
is to be noted, too, that there are lines of three and even of two accents in Part I.

In chap. It is in these that Poeta nascitur non fit."

"Kubla Khan" is the remembered fragment of a dream. All that we know about it is contained
in the note Coleridge prefixed to it in the pamphlet of 1816.

Opinion will ever vary as to its poetic worth. Coleridge himself professed to consider it "rather
as a psychological curiosity" than as a thing "of any supposed poetic merits"; to Lamb he repeated
it "so enchantingly that it irradiates and brings heaven and elysian bowers into any parlour
when he sings or says it," and it has been a sort of touchstone of romantic taste ever since.
It supremely illustrates that "sense of musical delight, with the power of producing it," which
the poet declared to be a gift of the imagination that can never be learnt.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: See notes to this poem in the Globe edition, and E.H. Coleridge's "Letters of
Samuel Taylor Coleridge," Vol. I, p. 245, note.]

"FRANCE: AN ODE"

This ode was written in February, 1798, and first printed in the "Morning Post" for April 16
of that year, under the significant title of "Recantation." In the autumn it was printed with
its present title in a pamphlet together with "Fears in Solitude," another political poem,
and "Frost at Midnight," a poem on his infant child. In October, 1802, it was reprinted in
the "Post" with a prose "Argument" (see notes), less necessary for the readers of that time
than it may be now. Coleridge, like Wordsworth, had welcomed the French Revolution as ushering
in an era of light and love in human society; both, though Wordsworth more profoundly, had
been depressed by the excesses of 1793-4, and by the lust of conquest which became more and
more evident under the Directory; and when at last in February, 1798, the French armies invaded
Switzerland, the ancient sacred home of liberty in Europe, Coleridge "recanted" in this ode.

Political poetry is likely to lose its power with the passing of the events and passions that
give it birth; it retains its power just in proportion as it is built on lasting and universal
interests of the heart of man. That "France" has retained its position as one of the great
odes of the English language is due not only to the loftiness of its thought and the splendor
of its imagery, but even more to the fact that it turns from the political excitement of the
hour to the grandeur and beauty of nature and to those aspirations and ideals whose home is
"in the heart of man."

"LOVE"

From the second edition of "Lyrical Ballads," 1800. It was planned by Coleridge as an introduction
to the ballad of "The Dark Ladie," which was never completed, but of which some fifteen stanzas
were printed in the 1834 edition of his "Poetical Works." Its composition cannot be accurately
dated. It is conceived in the general spirit of the ballads but is simpler, more purely a poem
of sentiment, than either "Christabel" or "The Ancient Mariner," and makes no use of the supernatural.
Its simplicity and absolute purity of tone are, however, something more than a negative virtue.
Coleridge himself declared of it and "The Ancient Mariner" that they might be excelled, but
could not be imitated.

"DEJECTION: AN ODE"

This ode was written in April, 1802, at a time when, after sickness, opium, domestic unhappiness
and the consequent paralysis of his poetic faculty had driven him to seek distraction in the
study of metaphysics, he made a visit to Wordsworth at Dove Cottage and in that vitalizing
presence experienced a brief return of his powers--enough to give wonderful expression to perhaps
the saddest thoughts that ever visited ungoverned genius. The earliest known form of the poem,
preserved in a letter to W. Sotheby of July 19, 1802, shows (what is apparent enough to one
familiar with the relations existing between the two poets) that it was conceived as a letter
to Wordsworth, who is addressed in this earliest version as "Dearest Poet," "Wordsworth," and
"William." It was first printed in the "Morning Post" for October 4, 1802, with "Edmund" for
Wordsworth's name and with some omissions, but with the strong personal feeling undiminished;
and in its present form (that is, with the parts omitted in the 1802 print restored, but with
the substitution of "Lady" for "Edmund" and with numerous other omissions and changes, notably
in the last stanza, all tending to depersonalize the poem) in "Sibylline Leaves," 1816. In
1810 a hint given by Wordsworth, with the best intentions, to a third person concerning the
real nature of Coleridge's troubles, was reported, or rather misreported, to Coleridge, and
an estrangement fraught with deep grief to both ensued. The breach was healed, as much as such
wounds may be, by the mediation of a common friend in 1812; but the old glad and fruitful fellowship
could never be restored. Coleridge wrote to Poole, February 13, 1813: "A reconciliation has
taken place, but the feeling, which I had previous to that moment, ... that, I fear, never
can return. All outward actions, all inward wishes, all thoughts and admirations will be the
same--are the same, but--aye, there remains an immedicable But."

"Dejection" is distinguished from the other poems in this volume by containing, along with
its wonderful interpretation of outward nature into harmony with his own else unutterable sadness,
Coleridge's--and perhaps all poets'--essential philosophy of poetry. It was natural that the
metaphysics in which he had been immersed should color his thought; but literature affords
few if any instances of metaphysics so transformed into poetry in the crucible of feeling as
is afforded by stanza V. of this ode.

"YOUTH AND AGE" AND "WORK WITHOUT HOPE"

In these two poems Coleridge has left a record of the sadness of a life lived

"In darkness, with the light of youth gone out,"

or returning only in glimpses that showed what he had lost. In these latter years he was busy
enough in an incoherent, visionary fashion, and did even write and publish (though in characteristically
fragmentary form) a work that made a great impression on young men in the second quarter of
the century, his "Aids to Reflection"; but his activity was philosophical and theological,
not poetic, and even in that field the product fell far short of his plans and promises. The
inner and real life of the man is revealed, now as always, in his poetry; and amidst what profound
dejection it glimmers on, these two brief poems show. It was a flash of poignant memory of
the old days at Stowey. The first thirty-eight lines were printed in 1828, and the whole poem
(including the last six lines, which were not in the original draft) in 1834.

"Work Without Hope" was written, Coleridge says, "on the 21st February,
1827," and was first printed in 1828.
    Do thou the same! Burnet was Master of
Charterhouse from 1685 till his death in 1715, and enjoyed considerable
reputation as a man of curious learning. In the Archaeologiae he
professed to reconcile a former work of his on the origins of the world
with the account given in Genesis. The quotation is from chapter VII. of
book I., "De Hebraeis, eorumque Cabalâ," and may be translated thus: "I
easily believe that the invisible natures in the universe are more in
number than the visible. But who shall tell us all the kinds of them?
the ranks and relationships, the peculiar qualities and gifts of each?
what they do? where they dwell? Man's wit has ever been circling about
the knowledge of these things, but has never attained to it. Yet in the
meanwhile I will not deny that it is profitable to contemplate from time
to time in the mind, as in a picture, the idea of a larger and better
world; lest the mind, becoming wonted to the little things of everyday
life, grow narrow and settle down altogether to mean businesses. At the
same time, however, we must watch for the truth, and observe method, so
as to distinguish the certain from the uncertain, day from night."

This was somewhat enlarged in the second edition (1800), and dropped thereafter.

*Page 3*, LINE 12--*eftsoons*. Anglo-Saxon eftsona (eft afterwards, again, + sona soon), reënforced
by the adverbial genitive ending -s. Coleridge found the word in Spenser and the old ballads.

4, 23--*kirk*. The Scotch and Northern English form of "church." The old ballads had been preserved
chiefly in the North; hence this Northern form came to be looked on as the proper word for
church in the ballad style.

41, marginal gloss--*driven*. All editions down to Campbell's had "drawn;" but this he believes
to have been a misprint, since the narrative seems to require "driven."

5, 55--*clifts*. This word arose from a confusion of "cliff," a precipice, and "cleft," a fissure.
It was "exceedingly common in the 16th-18th cent.," according to the New English Dict., which
gives examples from Captain John Smith, Marlowe, and Defoe.

62--*swound*. An archaic form of "swoon," found in Elizabethan English.

64--*thorough*. "Through" and "thorough" are originally the same word, and in Shakespeare's
time both forms were used for the preposition. Cf. Puck's song in "Midsummer Night's Dream,"
"Thorough bush, thorough briar."

67--*eat*. This form (pronounced et) is still in use in England and New England for the past
tense of the verb, though in America the form "ate" is now preferred. "Eat" as past participle,
however, was archaic or rude even in Coleridge's time.

76--*vespers*. Properly a liturgical term, meaning the daily evening service in church; then
in a more general way "evening." The Century Dict. gives no examples of its use as a nautical
term. Probably Coleridge used it to give a suggestion of ante-Reformation times. The more familiar
word for the evening service in the English Church is "even-song," but Coleridge in line 595
prefers "the little vesper bell" for its suggestion of medievalism.

6, 97--*like God's own head*. The comparison is the converse of that in the Bible, Matthew
xvii., 2, Revelations I., 16, where the countenance of Christ glorified is said to shine "as
the sun" (Sykes).

98--*uprist*. This word was used in Middle English as a noun, and regularly as the 3d pers.
sing. pres. ind. of the verb "uprise." In "The Reves Tale" line 329, however, Chaucer uses,
it in a context of past tenses, as Coleridge does here, as if it were a weak preterit; and
Chaucer uses "rist up" in the same way several times (Sykes).

104--*The furrow followed free*. This was changed in "Sibylline Leaves" to "The furrow streamed
off free," because, Coleridge tells us, "from the ship itself the Wake appears like a brook
flowing off from the stern." In the case of modern steamboats at least it would be more correct
to say that the wake, as seen from the stern of the boat, looks like a brook following the
boat. The original reading was restored in the editions of 1828 and 1829.

7, 123--*The very deep did rot*, etc. The ship becalmed in tropic seas, and the slimy things
engendered there, were a vision in Coleridge's mind before "The Ancient Mariner" was thought of.

The same subject had occupied Wordsworth's imagination before he and Coleridge came together
at Stowey; see Wordsworth's "The Borderers," Act iv.

125--*slimy things*. Strange creatures, the spawn of the rotting sea, for which the Mariner
has no name.

131, marginal gloss--*Josephus, Michael Psellus*. The only "learned Jew, Josephus," that we
know of is the historian of that name who lived in the first century of our era; but little
has been found in his works to justify this reference. The "Platonic Constantinopolitan, Michael
Psellus," was a Byzantine teacher of the eleventh century who wrote a dialogue in which demons
are classified according to the element in which they live (Cooper; Sykes).

8, 152--*I wist*. "Wist" is properly the past tense of an old verb "wit," to know. But Coleridge
seems to use "I wist" here as equivalent to "I wis" (see "Christabel," l. 92), which is a form
of "iwis," an adverb meaning "certainly."

157--*with throats unslaked*, etc. A remarkable instance of onomatopoeia.

9, 164--*gramercy*. An exclamation, meaning originally "much thanks" (Old French grand merci),
and so used by Shakespeare ("Merchant of Venice" II., 2, 128, "Richard III" III., 2, 108).
But in the ballads it is often a mere exclamation of wonder and surprise, and so Coleridge
uses it here,--*grin*. Coleridge says ("Table Talk" To "grin" was originally to snarl and show
the teeth as animals do when angry. "They go to and fro in the evening: they grin like a dog,
and run about through the city," Ps. LIX., 6, Prayer-Book Version, where the King James Version
has "make a noise like a dog." Hence idiots, stupid people, foolish people, all who are or
who demean themselves below the dignity of man, grin rather than smile; and so the Mariner's
companions, their muscles stiffened by drought, could show their gladness only by the contortions
of a grin, not by a natural smile of joy.

169--*Without a breeze, without a tide*. The Phantom Ship is a wide-spread sailor's superstition
that has been often used in the romantic literature of the nineteenth century. See Scott's
"Rokeby," Canto II. xi; Marryat's "Phantom Ship;" Poe's "MS. Found in a Bottle;" and Longfellow's
"Ballad of Carmilhan" (in "Tales of a Wayside Inn," Second Day). It is seen in storms, driving
by with all sails set, and is generally held to be an omen of disaster. Coleridge has shaped
the legend to his own purposes. The ship appears in a calm, not in a storm, and sailing without,
rather than against, wind and tide; and instead of a crew of dead men it carries only Death
and Life-in-Death. Possibly he was acquainted with a form of the legend found in Bechstein's
Deutsches Sagenbuch (pointed out by Dr. Sykes), in which "Falkenberg, for murder of his brother,
is condemned to sail a spectral bark, attended only by his good and his evil spirit, who play
dice for his soul."

But this crude grotesquerie of horror--quite in the taste of that day, the day of "Monk" Lewis
and Mrs. Radcliffe--Coleridge's finer poetical judgment soon rejected.

190--*Her lips were red*, etc. Life-in-Death--who wins the Mariner, while Death wins his shipmates--is
conceived as a witch, something after the fashion of Geraldine in "Christabel" or Duessa in
"The Faerie Queene," but wilder, stranger than either; a thing of startling and evil beauty.
Spenser's pages of description, however, give no such vivid image of loathsome loveliness as
do the first three lines of this stanza. "Her skin was as white as leprosy" is a feat in suggestion.

10, 199, marginal gloss--*within the courts of the Sun*. Between the tropics of Cancer and
Capricorn.

210--*with one bright star Within the nether tip*. An interesting case of poetical illusion.
No one, of course, ever saw a star within the tip of the horned moon. Yet a good many readers,
until reminded of their astronomy, think they have seen this phenomenon. Coleridge apparently
knew that the human mind would receive it as experience. The phrase is no slip on his part;
the earlier editions had instead "almost atween the tips," which is astronomically justifiable,
but in "Sibylline Leaves" and later he wrote it as in the text.

222--*And every soul, it passed me by, Like the whizz of my cross-bow!* It was an ancient belief,
imaginatively revived by romantic poets, that when a person died his soul could be seen, or
heard, or both, as it left the body, Cf. Keats's "Eve of St. Agnes," first stanza; Rossetti's
"Sister Helen;" and Kipling's "Danny Deever."

11, 226--*And thou art long*, etc. "For the last two lines of this stanza," runs. Wordsworth
in later years declared that he contributed also lines 13-16, "and four or five lines more
in different parts of the poem, which I could not now point out."

245--*or ever*. "Or" here is not the adversative conjunction but an entirely different word,
an archaic variant of "ere," meaning "before."

250--*For the sky and the sea*, etc. Another instance of the sound fitting the sense. The rocking
rhythm of the line is the rhythm of his fevered pulse. The poem is full of this quality.

13, 297--*silly*. This word meant in Old English timely (from soel, time, occasion) hence fortunate,
blessed. From this was developed, under the influence of medieval religious teaching, the meaning
innocent, harmless, simple; and from this again our modern meaning, foolish, simple in a derogatory
sense. Chaucer has the word in all these meanings, and also in another, a modification of the
second--wretched, pitiable.

"The epithet may be due either to the gush of love that has filled the Mariner's heart, or
to his noticing the buckets, long useless, frail, now filled with water" (Sykes); very likely
to both together.

14, 314--*fire-flags*. The notion of the "fire-flags" "hurried about" was probably suggested
to Coleridge by the description of the Northern Lights (aurora borealis) in Hearne's "Journey
... to the Northern Ocean," a book printed in 1795 and known to both Wordsworth and Coleridge
before 1798. Hearne says: "I can positively affirm that in still nights I have frequently heard
them make a rustling and crackling noise, like the waving of a large flag in a fresh gale of
wind." See also Wordsworth's "Complaint of a Forsaken Indian Woman" (Cooper).

15, 358--*Sometimes a-dropping*, etc. The Mariner's sin was that in wanton cruelty he took
the life of a friendly fellow-creature; his punishment is to live with dead men round him and
the dead bird on his breast, in such solitude that "God himself scarce seemed there to be,"
until he learns to feel the sacredness of life even in the water-snakes, the "slimy things"
that coil in the rotting sea; and the stages of his penance are marked by suggestions of his
return to the privilege of human fellowship. The angels' music is like the song of the skylark,
the sails ripple like a leaf-hidden brook--recollections of his happy boyhood in. England;
and finally comes the actual land breeze, and he is in his "own countree." Observe the marginal
gloss to line 442.

17, 407--*honey-dew*. See note on "Kubla Khan," line 53.

416--*His great bright eye*, etc. Dorothy Wordsworth in her Journal, February 27, 1798, describes
the look of the sea by moonlight, "big and white, swelled to the very shores, but round and
high in the middle."

20, 512--*shrieve*. To hear confession and pronounce absolution, one of the duties of the priesthood
in the Catholic church. The word is more often spelled shrive. Shrift is the abstract noun
derived from it.

21, 523--*skiff-boat*. A pleonastic compound; a skiff is a boat. Coleridge is fond of such
formations. See for example II. 41, 77, 472 of this poem and II. 46, 649 of "Christabel" (Cooper).

535--*ivy-tod*. A clump or bush of ivy. Cf. Spenser's "Shepheards Calender," March, II. 67 ff.:

  "At length within an Yvie todde
  (There shrouded was the little God)
    I heard a busie bustling."

In the editions of 1828 and 1829 Coleridge changed it to the form printed in the text; "but
bitch has been restored in all subsequent editions except Mr. Campbell's" (Garnett).

16--*thin gray cloud*, etc. The "thin gray cloud," as also the dancing leaf of ll. 49-52, was
observed at Stowey. They are noted in Dorothy Wordsworth's Journal, January 31 and March 7, 1798.

26, 54--*Jesu*. This form of the word is nearer to the Hebrew original than the more familiar
Jesus. It is often (though not exclusively) used in ejaculation and prayer, as here, and was
perhaps supposed to be the vocative form.

27, 92--*I wis.* This is a misinterpretation of Middle English iwis, from Old English gewis,
"certainly."

29, 129--*The lady sank,* etc. The threshold of a house is, in folk-lore, a sacred place, and
evil things cannot cross but have to be carried over it.

142--*I cannot speak,* etc. Geraldine blesses "her gracious stars" (l. 114), but cannot join
in praise to the Holy Virgin.

30, 167--*And jealous of the listening air*. This line was not in the first edition, but was
added in the edition of 1828.

32, 252--*Behold! her bosom and half her side*, etc. There exist at least three versions of
this passage. The text is that of the 1828 edition. The edition of 1816 lacked ll. 255-61,
having only these lines between 253 and 262:

  "And she is to sleep by Christabel.
  She took two paces, and a stride," etc.

The third form is that of a MS. copy of the poem once the property of Wordsworth's sister-in-law,
Sarah Hutchinson, and recently published in facsimile by Mr. E.H. Coleridge, which gives this
reading for ll. 253-4:

  "Are lean and old and foul of hue,
  And she is to sleep by Christabel."

Coleridge seems to have tried both ways, that of revealing Geraldine's loathsome secret and
that of leaving it an unknown and nameless horror, and finally to have chosen the latter, just
as he rejected in later editions the charnel-house particulars in the description of Death
in "The Ancient Mariner." Unquestionably he was right. The horror that is merely suggested
and left shrouded in mystery for the imagination to work on is more powerful than that which
is known. The suppressed line, however, helps us in an age less familiar with notions of the
supernatural to understand what Geraldine is. The character is conceived upon the general lines
of Duessa in the first book of "The Faerie Queene;" a being of great external loveliness, but
within "full of all uncleanness." Observe also that the thought, shrouded here, is half revealed
later (l. 457).

35, 344--*Bratha Head, Wyndermere, Langdale Pike*, etc. For the relation of the Second Part
of the poem to the Lake country see Introduction. All of the places named in these lines are
near the border-line between Cumberland and Westmoreland and within a dozen miles of the Wordsworths'
home at Grasmere. Keswick, which was the home of Coleridge from 1800 to 1804, and of his wife
and children for many years thereafter, is on Derwent Water, in Cumberland, some ten miles
north of Grasmere. The little river Bratha runs into the upper or northern end of Windermere,
a larger lake lying about three miles below Grasmere and connected with it by another stream.
Langdale Pike (or Pikes, for there are more than one) is the name of the steep hills at the
head of Langdale, on the Cumberland border. Dungeon-Ghyll is a ravine in Langdale (see Wordsworth's
"The Idle Shepherd Boys; or, Dungeon-Ghyll Force"). Borrowdale lies over the border in Cumberland
and slopes the other way, toward Derwent Water.

37, 407--*Lord Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine*. Sir Leoline lives at "Langdale Hall," a supposed
castle in the immediate vicinity of the poets' homes; the friend of his youth, whose daughter
Geraldine claims to be, is given the name of a real family and an historical estate in eastern
Cumberland, Tryermaine in Gilsland, on the River Irthing, which forms part of the boundary
between Cumberland and Northumberland. Scott in his notes to "The Bridal of Triermain" quotes
as follows from Burns's "Antiquities of Westmoreland and Cumberland": "After the death of Gilmore,
Lord of Tryermaine and Torcrossock, Hubert Vaux gave Tryermaine and Torcrossock to his second
son, Ranulph Vaux.... Ranulph, being Lord of all Gilsland, gave Gilmore's land to his younger
son, named Roland.... And they were named Rolands successively, that were lords thereof, until
the reign of Edward the Fourth."

44--*The Conclusion to Part the Second*. Campbell thought it "highly improbable" that these
lines were originally composed as a part of "Christabel." In a letter to Southey, May 6, 1801,
Coleridge speaks of his eldest boy, Hartley, then in his fifth year: "Dear Hartley! we are
at times alarmed by the state of his health, but at present he is well. If I were to lose him,
I am afraid it would exceedingly deaden my affection for any other children I may have." Then
he writes the lines that we now have as the Conclusion to Part the Second; and adds: "A very
metaphysical account of fathers calling their children rogues, rascals, and little varlets, etc."

KUBLA KHAN

Kubla Khan, grandson of Genghis Khan, was a Mongolian conqueror who stretched his empire from
European Russia to the eastern shores of China in the thirteenth century. His exploits, like
those of his grandfather and those of the Mohammedan Timur in the next century, made a deep
impression on the imagination of Western Europe. Compilers of travellers's tales, like Hakluyt
and Purchas, caught up eagerly whatever they could find, history or legend, concerning the
extent of his domain, the methods of his government, or the splendors of his court. (quoted
in the Notes of the Globe edition).

Coleridge's poem, however, contains suggestions and reminiscences from another part of Purchas's
book, and probably from other books as well. "It reads like an arras of reminiscences from
several accounts of natural or enchanted parks, and from various descriptions of that elusive
and danger-fraught garden which mystic geographers have studied to locate from Florida to Cathay"
(Cooper).

The earthly paradise, which was closed to man indeed, but not destroyed, when Adam and Eve
were driven from its gates, has exercised the imagination of the Christian world from the early
Middle Ages. Lactantius described it in the fourth century; the author of the "Phoenix," probably
in the eighth century, translated Lactantius' Latin into Anglo-Saxon verse; Sir John Mandeville,
in the fourteenth century, though he did not reach it himself because he "was not worthy,"
gives an account of it from what he has "heard say of wise Men beyond;" Milton described it
enchantingly in "Paradise Lost;" Dr. Johnson used a modification of it in "Rasselas;" and William
Morris in our own time made it the framework for a delightful series of world-old tales. The
idea, indeed, is not peculiar to Christianity, but is probably to be found in every civilization.
Christian Europe has naturally located it in the East; and since the Crusades, which brought
Western Europe more in contact with the East, various eastern legends have been attached to
or confounded with the original notion. One of these is the Abyssinian legend of the hill Amara
(cf. l. 41, where Coleridge's "Mount Abora" seems to stand for Purchas's Amara). Amara in Purchas's
account is a hill in a great plain in Ethiopia, used as a prison for the sons of Abyssinian
kings. Its level top, twenty leagues in circuit and surrounded by a high wall, is a garden
of delight. "Heauen and Earth, Nature and Industrie, have all been corriuals to it, all presenting
their best presents, to make it of this so louely presence, some taking this for the place
of our Forefathers Paradise." The sides of the hill are of overhanging rock, "bearing out like
mushromes, so that it is impossible to ascend it" except by a passageway "cut out within the
Rocke, not with staires, but ascending little by little," and closed above and below with gates
guarded by soldiers. "Toward the South" of the level top "is a rising hill ... yeelding ...
a pleasant spring which passeth through all that Plaine ... and making a Lake, whence issueth
a River, which having from these tops espied Nilus, never leaves seeking to find him, whom
he cannot leave both to seeke and to finde.... There are no Cities on the top, but palaces,
standing by themselves ... spacious, sumptuous, and beautifull, where the Princes of the Royall
blood have their abode with their families."

This legend looks backward to Mandeville, with whose account of the Terrestrial Paradise it
has much in common, and forward to Milton, who used some of its elements in his description
of Paradise in the fourth book of "Paradise Lost." (See Professor Cooper's article in "Modern
Philology," III., 327 ff., from which this is condensed.)

Mr. E.H. Coleridge (the poet's grandson) has recently shown that in the winter of 1797-8 Coleridge
read and made notes from a book, "Travels through ... the Cherokee Country," by the American
botanist William Bartram. Chapter VII. of Bartram's book contains an account of some natural
wonders in the Cherokee country that almost certainly afforded part of the imagery of "Kubla
Khan." Bartram, says Mr. Coleridge, "speaks of waters which 'descend by slow degrees through
rocky caverns into the bowels of the earth, whence they are carried by subterraneous channels
into other receptacles and basons.' He travels for several miles over 'fertile eminences and
delightful shady forests.' He is enchanted by a 'view of a dark sublime grove;' of the grand
fountain he says that the 'ebullition is astonishing and continual, though its greatest force
of fury intermits' (note the word 'intermits') 'regularly for the space of thirty seconds of
time: the ebullition is perpendicular upward, from a vast rugged orifice through a bed of rock
throwing up small particles of white shells.' He is informed by 'a trader' that when the Great
Sink was forming there was heard 'an inexpressible rushing noise like a mighty hurricane or
thunderstorm,' that 'the earth was overflowed by torrents of water which came wave after wave
rushing down, attended with a terrific noise and tremor of the earth,' that the fountain ceased
to flow and 'sank into a huge bason of water;' but, as he saw with his own eyes, 'vast heaps
of fragments of rock' (Coleridge writes 'huge fragments'), 'white chalk, stones, and pebbles
had been thrown up by the original outbursts and forced aside into the lateral valleys.'"

From these and from other like sources Coleridge's mind was no doubt stored with suggestions
of tropical wonder and loveliness, which fell together--if his own account of the making of
the poem is to be relied on--into the kaleidoscopic beauty of "Kubla Khan." It is not unlikely,
too (cf. ll. 12-13), that the ash-tree dell at Stowey, which he had already used for a scene
of supernatural terror in "Osorio," bears some part in his avowed dream of Xanadu.

45, 3--*Alph, the sacred river.* This name seems to be of Coleridge's own invention; at least
it has not been pointed out where he found it.

16--*demon-lover.* The demon-lover (or more often, with sexes reversed, the fairy mistress)
is a favorite theme of romance, taken from folk-lore, where it appears in many forms. Cf. the
ballads of "Thomas Rymer," "Tam Lin," and "The Demon Lover," in Child's "English and Scottish
Popular Ballads," and Scott's "William and Helen" (a translation of Burger's "Lenore").

46, 39, 41--*Abyssinian maid, Mount Abora.* See introductory note above.

53--*honey-dew.* A sweet sticky substance found on plants, deposited there by the aphis or
plant-louse. It was supposed to be the food of fairies. Not improbably Coleridge was thinking
of manna, a saccharine exudation found upon certain plants in the East. Mandeville describes
it as found in "the Land of Job:" "This Manna is clept Bread of Angels. And it is a white Thing
that is full sweet and right delicious, and more sweet than Honey or Sugar. And it Cometh of
the Dew of Heaven that falleth upon the Herbs in that Country. And it congealeth and becometh
all white and sweet. And Men put it in Medicines."

53-4--*For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise.* Professor Cooper, in
the article cited in the introductory note above, points out that this part of the poem contains
perhaps reminiscences of the stories told of the Old Man of the Mountain. This was the title
popularly given to the head of a fanatical sect of Mohammedans in Syria in the eleventh and
twelfth centuries, whose method of getting rid of their enemies has given us the word assassin.
To quote from Mandeville's "Travels," which has the essentials of the story, though the chief
is here called Gatholonabes, and his domain is not in Syria but in the island Mistorak, "in
the Lordship of Prester John:"

"He had a full fair Castle and a strong in a Mountain, so strong and so noble, that no Man
could devise a fairer or a stronger. And he had made wall all the Mountain about with a strong
Wall and a fair. And within those Walls he had the fairest Garden that any Man might behold....

"And he had also in that Place, the fairest Damsels that might be found, under the Age of fifteen
Years, and the fairest young Striplings that Men might get, of that same Age. And they were
all clothed in Cloths of Gold, full richly. And he said that those were Angels.

"And he had also made 3 Wells, fair and noble, and all environed with Stone of Jasper, and
of Crystal, diapered with Gold, and set with precious Stones and great orient Pearls. And he
had made a Conduit under the Earth, so that the 3 Wells, at his List, should run, one Milk,
another Wine, and another Honey. And that Place he clept Paradise.

"And when that any good Knight, that was hardy and noble, came to see this Royalty, he would
lead him into his Paradise, and show him these wonderful Things for his Sport, and the marvellous
and delicious Song of divers Birds, and the fair Damsels, and the fair Wells of Milk, Wine
and Honey, plenteously running. And he would make divers Instruments of Music to sound in an
high Tower, so merrily, that it was Joy to hear; and no Man should see the Craft thereof. And
those, he said, were Angels of God, and that Place was Paradise, that God had promised to his
Friends, saying, 'Dabo vobis Terram fluentem Lacte et Melle' ('I shall give thee a Land flowing
with Milk and Honey'). And then would he make them to drink of certain Drink [hashish, a narcotic
drug, whence their name of Assassins], whereof anon they should be drunk. And then would they
think it greater Delight than they had before. And then would he say to them, that if they
would die for him and for his Love, that after their Death they should come to his Paradise;
and they should be of the Age of the Damsels, and they should play with them, and yet be Maidens.
And after that should he put them in a yet fairer Paradise, where that they should see the
God of Nature visibly, in His Majesty and in His Bliss. And then would he show them his Intent,
and say to them, that if they would go slay such a Lord, or such a Man that was his Enemy or
contrarious to his List, that they should not therefore dread to do it and to be slain themselves.
For after their Death, he would put them in another Paradise, that was an 100-fold fairer than
any of the tother; and there should they dwell with the most fairest Damsels that might be,
and play with them ever-more.

"And thus went many divers lusty Pachelors to slay great Lords in divers Countries, that were
his Enemies, and made themselves to be slain, in Hope to have that Paradise."

51, 22--*When France in wrath*, etc. The storming of the Bastile took place July 14, 1789.
On the 4th of August feudal and manorial privileges were swept away by the National Assembly;
and on the 18th of August the Assembly formally adopted a declaration of "the rights of man."
In September 1792 the National Convention abolished royalty and declared France a republic.

52, 26-7--*With what a joy my lofty gratulation Unawed I* sang. Coleridge wrote a poem on the
"Destruction of the Bastile," probably in 1789 or soon after (first printed in 1834); and in
September, 1792, some lines "To a Young Lady, with a Poem on the French Revolution"

28--*the disenchanted nation*. "Disenchanted" because they found that freedom, peace, and virtue
were not to be secured by mere proclamation; and that all Europe was not ready at the call
of the revolutionists to abolish prescriptive rights and establish republican forms of society.
In January 1793 Louis XVI was beheaded. The act was followed pretty promptly by a coalition
of England, Holland, Spain, Naples, and the German states against the Republic.

36--*Yet still my voice*. In "Religious Musings," 1794-6, and more ardently in the parts that
he contributed to Southey's "Joan of Arc," 1796.

42--*Britain's name*. England was from the beginning the centre of resistance to the violence
and ambition of revolutionary France; and Pitt, who controlled English policy in these years,
was looked upon as a cold-blooded agent of tyranny by the French republicans and their English
sympathizers.

44--*sweet music of deliverance*. The French were so convinced that their Revolution marked
the beginning of a new era in human affairs that they determined to have a new chronology.
Accordingly a commission of scientists was appointed to formulate a system, which was adopted
in October 1793. The "Era of the Republic" was to be counted from the autumnal equinox, 1792.
The year was divided into twelve months, as before, but they were renamed (Thermidor hot month,
Fructidor fruit month, Nivose snow month, &c.), and ran in periods of thirty days each from
the 22d of September. This left five days undistributed, which were set apart as feast-days
in celebration of five virtues or ideals. Each month consisted of three decades, and each tenth
day, or decadis, was a holiday. The purpose of this was to eradicate the observance of the
Christian Sunday. This chronology was in actual use in France until Napoleon put an end to
it in 1806.

The municipality of Paris in 1793 decreed that on the 10th of November the worship of Reason
should be inaugurated at Notre Dame. "On that day the venerable cathedral was profaned by a
series of sacrilegious outrages unparalleled in the history of Christendom. A temple dedicated
to 'Philosophy' was erected on a platform in the middle of the choir ... the Goddess of Reason,
impersonated by Mademoiselle Maillard, a well known figurante of the opera, took her seat upon
a grassy throne in front of the temple; ... and the multitude bowed the knee before her in
profound admiration.... At the close of this grotesque ceremony the whole cortège proceeded
to the hall of the Convention, carrying with them their 'goddess,' who was borne aloft in a
chair of state on the shoulders of four men. Having deposited her in front of the president,"
Chaumette, the spokesman of the procession, "harangued the Assembly.... He proceeded to demand
that the ci-devant metropolitan church should henceforth be the temple of Reason and Liberty;
which proposition was immediately adopted. The 'goddess' was then conducted to the president,
and he and other officers of the House saluted her with the 'fraternal kiss,' amid thunders
of applause. After this, upon the motion of Thuriot, the Convention in a body joined the mass
of the people, and marched in their company to the temple of Reason, to witness a repetition
of the impieties above described.... At St. Gervais a ball was given in the chapel of the Virgin.
In other churches theatrical spectacles took place.... On Sunday, the 17th of November, all
the parish churches of Paris were closed by authority, with three exceptions.... Religion was
proscribed, churches closed, Christian ordinances interdicted; the dreary gloom of atheistical
despotism overspread the land."--Jervis, "The Gallican Church and the Revolution," quoted in
Larned's "History for Ready Reference," p. 1300. The next year, however, Robespierre had a
decree passed of which the first article was: "The French people acknowledge the existence
of the Supreme Being and the immortality of the soul;" and thereupon the inscriptions To Reason
that had been placed upon the French churches were replaced by others reading To the Supreme Being.

50--*calm and bright*. After the downfall of Robespierre in 1794 France gradually worked back
to a less hysterical mood. In October 1795 a new form of government known as the Directory
was established, under which the people enjoyed comparative safety at home and developed a
remarkable military efficiency against their foreign enemies. Bonaparte's military genius brought
him rapidly to the front in the wars of the Directory. It was he that created the Cisalpine
and Ligurine "republics," and his policy directed the invasions of Rome and of Switzerland.

53, 66--*Helvetia*. In March, 1798, after having fostered or compelled the formation of republics
under French protection in Holland, northern Italy, and Rome, the Directory, under pretence
of defending the republican rights of the Vaudois, made a concerted attack upon Switzerland.
Berne, the centre of resistance, was taken, despite the heroic defence of the mountaineers
who for five centuries had maintained in "bleak Helvetia's icy caverns" a "shrine of liberty"
for all Europe.

DEJECTION: AN ODE

55, 1 of motto--*yestreen*. Abbreviation of "yester-even," yesterday evening. And years afterward
in a letter to an artist friend, W. Collins (December, 1818): "Poetry is out of the question.
The attempt would only hurry me into that sphere of acute feelings from which abstruse research,
the mother of self-oblivion, presents an asylum."

95--*Reality's dark dream*! In the earlier forms of the poem the lines corresponding to 94-5
stood thus:

  "Nay, wherefore did I let it haunt my mind,
  This dark, distressful dream?"

He seems to mean, "This loss of joy, of poetic power, is, must be, only an evil dream, and
I will shake it from my mind;" but he knows that it is a reality, and so turns to forget it
in the sensuous intoxication of the wind's music. Or perhaps--for Coleridge is already a metaphysician--reality
is used here in opposition to ideality or imagination; the truth of philosophy (cf. ll. 89-90)
and the metaphysic habit of mind that the study of it induces--what we call reality--is a dream
that has come between him and the world of the ideal in which he had and used his "shaping
spirit of imagination." The passage is obscure.

100--*Bare crag*, etc. The scenery here is that of the Lake country where Coleridge and Wordsworth
were then living--the former at Keswick in Cumberland, the latter at Grasmere, Westmoreland.

59, 120--*Otway*. Coleridge wrote originally, "As thou thyself [i.e. Wordsworth--see next note]
had'st fram'd the tender lay." This he changed to "Edmund's self" when he first printed the
poem in 1802; and finally to "Otway's self." Thomas Otway was a dramatist of the time of Charles
II (born 1651, died 1685). He wrote, among other plays, two tragedies of wonderful pathetic
power, "The Orphan" and "Venice Preserved." The theme and style of the former of these, especially,
no doubt suggested his name to Coleridge here. Otway's own career was pathetic; he died young,
neglected, and according to one story, starved.

121--*'T is of a little child*, etc. Alluding to Wordsworth's "Lucy Gray," which had been published
in the second edition of "Lyrical Ballads," 1800.

YOUTH AND AGE

60, 12--*trim skiffs*, etc. Fulton had invented the steamboat in 1807. The first regular steamboat
in British waters was built in 1812.

61, 34--*altered size*. Coleridge became very stout in his later years.

WORK WITHOUT HOPE

62, 5--*the sole unbusy thing*. Cf. George Herbert's "Employment:"

    "All things are busie; onely I
    Neither bring hony with the bees,
  Nor flowers to make that, nor the husbandrie
      To water these."

"I find more substantial comfort now," wrote Coleridge to his friend Collins in 1818, "in pious
George Herbert's 'Temple,' which I used to read to amuse myself with his quaintness, in short,
only to laugh at, than in all the poetry since Milton."

