THE
                     DETECTION OF FORGERY.

                     A PRACTICAL HANDBOOK
                        FOR THE USE OF
           BANKERS, SOLICITORS, MAGISTRATES' CLERKS,
             AND ALL HANDLING SUSPECTED DOCUMENTS.

                              BY
                       DOUGLAS BLACKBURN
 (Late Expert to the Natal Criminal Investigation Department,
                 and the Transvaal Republic)

                              AND
                   CAPTAIN WAITHMAN CADDELL.

                            LONDON:
                    CHARLES & EDWIN LAYTON,
                    FARRINGDON STREET, E.C.
                             1909.

ERRATUM. (Page 15.)

Owing to the averages given in the table on page 15 being printed from some incomplete manuscript
they are incorrect. It is obvious that the proper averages are--

 | 7-1/4 | 6-1/2 | 5-3/4 | 7-1/2 || 16-1/4 | 21 | 20-3/4 | 20-3/4

    The corrections in the above erratum have been applied. The
    handwritten pages entitled 'Terminology' and 'Alphabet Variants'
    have been moved to the beginning of their relevant chapters.
    Hyphenation and punctuation have been standardised.

CONTENTS.

 CHAPTER                                           PAGE

         INTRODUCTION                                 5

     I.--THE PRINCIPLES OF HANDWRITING ANALYSIS       7

    II.--MEASUREMENT AND ITS APPLIANCES              13

   III.--TERMINOLOGY                                 17

    IV.--CLASSES OF HANDWRITING                      19

     V.--HOW TO EXAMINE A WRITING                    21

    VI.--THE ALPHABET IN DETAIL                      24

   VII.--THE CAPITALS                                29

  VIII.--PUNCTUATION                                 31

    IX.--PAPER AND WATERMARKS                        34

     X.--INKS                                        38

    XI.--ERASURES                                    42

   XII.--PENCILS AND STYLOGRAPHS                     45

  XIII.--ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND DISGUISED HANDS       47

   XIV.--FORGED LITERARY AUTOGRAPHS                  52

    XV.--FORGED SIGNATURES                           60

   XVI.--THE EXPERT IN THE WITNESS-BOX               68

  XVII.--HANDWRITING AND EXPRESSION                  72

 XVIII.--BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HANDWRITING                 78

INTRODUCTION.

The object of this little work is to assist those who may occasionally be called upon to form
an opinion as to the genuineness of signatures, alterations in cheques, and the varied doubtful
documents that demand the serious consideration of business men by way of a preliminary to
"taking further steps."

It is the first attempt published in England to explain the principles upon which the comparison
and examination of handwriting are conducted by experts. It is, and can only be, an outline
of suggestions how to begin, for no two experts follow precisely the same methods, any more
than two painters work on the same lines. Both agree in recognising certain rules and general
principles, but each strives for his objective point by the employment of those means which
experience, temperament, taste and opportunity suggest. The study of the elementary rules of
their art puts them upon the road for perfecting it, after which success can only be attained
by rightly reading the signs that lead to the ultimate goal.

In reading these chapters the student should begin by practising that self-help which is essential
to success. He must read with pen and notebook. It is with the object of compelling this valuable
habit that no illustrative examples are given in the text. It would have been easy to fill
many pages with script illustrations, but experience shows that a much greater impression is
made upon the memory by the hand forming the outlines described than if they were provided
in pictorial form. In other words, the student should supply this purposeful omission by himself
constructing the illustrations from the description. The trifling extra time and trouble thus
demanded will be amply repaid by the ease and rapidity with which the various points will be
fixed in the memory. Nor is this the only advantage to be gained. The act of reproducing the
illustration cited will emphasise and render clear technical and mechanical features that would
require many words to explain, with the attendant risk of confusing the mind by mere verbiage.

The material and opportunity for practising and studying the comparison of handwritings are
abundant. Every letter written or read affords a subject, and in a surprisingly short space
of time the student will find himself instinctively noting and analysing peculiarities in handwriting
that probably never arrested his attention before. The principles of the art are exceedingly
simple and free from complexity, and many a person who takes up the study will find that he
possesses powers of analysis and observation unguessed before. The most successful expert is
he who observes most closely and accurately, and the faculty needs only the spur of an objective
point for it to be developed.

After a little practice, experience will suggest many methods of examination and test not dealt
with here. For example, photographic enlargements can be and are utilised with great advantage
by bringing out minute details, especially in signatures, erasures and alterations. Interesting
experiments can be made with a view to discovering the effect of different kinds of ink--important
in settling the question whether the whole of a particular writing was done with one fluid,
and at the same time, or at intervals.

The study of erasures and alterations of figures or characters also comes within the scope
of developments of the art which it is not deemed necessary to deal with at length in these
pages, for after experience will suggest their use and the best methods of procedure. For the
beginner the instructions given in the chapters that follow will be found amply sufficient
to direct him how to take up a fascinating and practical accomplishment, and this, with no
further aid than his own judgment, perseverance and powers of observation and deduction.

CHAPTER I.

THE PRINCIPLES OF HANDWRITING ANALYSIS.

The principle on which experts claim to be able to detect variations and to differentiate between
handwritings is based on the well-established axiom that there is no such thing as a perfect
pair in nature; that, however close the apparent similarity between two things, a careful examination
and comparison will reveal marked differences to those trained to detect them.

This is especially true of everything that is produced by human agency. Everyone knows how
difficult it is to keep check upon and eradicate certain physical habits, such as gestures,
style of walking, moving the hands, arms, &c., tricks of speech, or tone of voice. These mannerisms,
being mechanical and automatic, or the result of long habit, are performed unconsciously, and
there is probably no person who is entirely free from some marked peculiarity of manner, which
he is ignorant of possessing. It is a well-known fact that the subject of caricature or mimicry
rarely admits the accuracy or justness of the imitation, although the peculiarities so emphasised
are plainly apparent to others. Even actors, who are supposed to make a careful study of their
every tone and gesture, are constantly criticised for faults or mannerisms plain to the observer,
but undetected by themselves.

It is easy, therefore, to understand how a trick or a gesture may become a fixed and unconscious
habit through long custom, especially when, as in the case of a peculiarity of style in handwriting,
there has been neither criticism on it, nor special reason for abandoning it.

Every person whose handwriting is developed and permanently formed has adopted certain more
or less distinctive peculiarities in the formation of letters of which he is generally unaware.

The act of writing is much less a matter of control than may be supposed. The pen follows the
thoughts mechanically, and few ready and habitual writers could, if suddenly called upon to
do so, say what peculiarities their writing possessed. For example, how many could say off-hand
how they dotted an i--whether with a round dot, a tick or a dash--whether the tick was vertical,
horizontal or sloping; what was the proportional distance of the dot from the top of the i.
Again, ask a practised writer how he crosses the letter t--whether with a horizontal, up or
down stroke? It is safe to assume that not one in a thousand could give an accurate answer,
for the reason that the dotting of an i and crossing of a t have become mechanical acts, done
without thought or premeditation, but as the result of a long-formed habit.

It is these unconscious hand-gestures and mechanical tricks of style that the handwriting expert
learns to distinguish and recognise,--the unconsidered trifles that the writer has probably
never devoted a minute's thought to, and which come upon him as a surprise when they are pointed
out to him. Their detection is rendered the more easy when one knows what to look for from
the fact that they are, unlike gestures and tricks of voice, permanent. A mannerism may not
strike two observers in the same way, nor is it easy to compare, for it is fleeting, and the
memory has to be relied upon to recall a former gesture in order to compare it with the last.
It is not so with a hand-gesture in writing. The sign remains side by side with its repetition,
for careful and deliberate comparison; and if the writing be a long one, the expert has the
advantage of being in possession of ample material on which to base his judgment.

A Popular Fallacy.--One of the most frequent objections offered by the casual critic when the
subject of expert testimony is discussed is to the effect that people write different hands
with different pens, and he probably believes this to be true. A very slight acquaintance with
the principles on which the expert works would satisfy this spontaneous critic of the fallacy
of his objection. A person who habitually writes a fine, small hand, sloping from right to
left, may believe that he has altered the character of his hand by using a thick, soft quill,
reversing the slope to what is called a backhand, and doubling the size of the letters. All
he has done is to put on a different suit of clothes; the same man is in them. The use of a
thick pen does not make him put a dot over the i where before he made an horizontal dash; it
does not turn a straight, barred t into a curved loop, neither does it alter the proportionate
distance between the letters and lines. It does not make him form loops where before he habitually
made bars, or vice versâ, and if he formerly made a u with an angle like a v he will not write
the u with a rounded hook. Neither will it cause him to drop his habit of adding a spur to
his initial letters or curtail the ends and tails that he was wont to make long. In short,
the points to which the expert devotes his investigation are those least affected by any variation
in the character of the pen used and the hand-gestures which have, by constant usage, become
as much part of the writer's style as his walk and the tone of his voice.

It follows, therefore, that the work of the handwriting experts consists in learning how to
detect and recognize those unconscious or mechanical signs, characteristics or hand-gestures
that are a feature in the handwriting of every person, no matter how closely any two hands
may approximate in general appearance. However similar two hands may seem to the casual and
untrained observer, very distinct and unmistakable differences become apparent when the student
has been taught what to look for. There is no more certain thing than the fact that there has
not yet been discovered two handwritings by separate persons so closely allied that a difference
cannot be detected by the trained observer. Every schoolmaster knows that in a class of pupils
taught writing from the same model, and kept strictly to it, no two hands are alike, although
in the early and rudimentary stage, before the hand has attained freedom and approached a settled
character, the differences are less marked. So soon as the child has been freed from the restraint
of the set copy and the criticism of the teacher, he begins to manifest distinct characteristics,
which become more marked and fixed with practice and usage.

There is no writing so uniform as the regulation hand used, and wisely insisted upon, in the
Civil Service, and familiar to the general public in telegrams and official letters. Yet it
is safe to say that there is not a telegraph or post office clerk in England who would not
be able to pick out the writing of any colleague with which he was at all acquainted.

Duplicates non-existent.--But the best and most decisive answer to the objection that writings
may be exactly similar lies in the notorious fact that during half a century experts have failed
to discover two complete writings by different hands, so much alike that a difference could
not be detected. Had such existed, they would long ere this have been produced for the confuting
of the expert in the witness-box; particularly when we bear in mind that the liberty, and even
the life of a person, have depended upon the identification of handwriting. That there are
many cases of extraordinary similarity between different handwritings is a fact; if there were
not, there would be very little occasion for the services of the expert, but it is equally
a fact that the fancied resemblance becomes less apparent as soon as the writing is examined
by a capable and painstaking expert. It should not be forgotten that it is not every person
who undertakes the comparison of handwritings who is qualified for the task, any more than
every doctor who diagnoses a case can be depended upon to arrive at an accurate conclusion.
But if the tried and accepted principles of the art be acted upon, there should be no possibility
of error, always assuming that the person undertaking the examination has a sufficiency of
material for comparison. An expert who valued his reputation would, for example, be very cautious
about giving an emphatic opinion if the only material at his disposal were two or three words
or letters. It is quite possible that a clever mimic might reproduce the voice of another person
so accurately as to deceive those who knew the subject of the imitation; but let him carry
on a conversation in the assumed voice for a few minutes, and detection is certain. In like
manner, while a few characters and tricks of style in writing may be fairly well imitated,
it is impossible to carry the deception over a number of words. Sooner or later the forger
lapses into some trick of his own, and it is here the trained observer catches him. The expert,
like the caricaturist, lays himself out to note the peculiarities of his subject, knowing that
these are practically beyond the control of the writer, and that the probabilities are that
he is not even aware of them. Peculiarities in handwriting, like unchecked habits in children,
become, in time, crystallised into a mannerism so fixed as to be part of the nature, and consequently
are difficult of eradication. As a matter of fact a peculiarity in handwriting is more often
cultivated than controlled, many writers regarding a departure from orthodox copybook form
as an evidence of an "educated hand."

