The "Mount of Olives" was begun in 1800, and finished during the following year. Beethoven
never remained in Vienna during the summer. The discomforts of the city and his intense love
for Nature urged him out into the pleasantly wooded suburbs of the city, where he could live
and work in seclusion. Upon this occasion he selected the little village of Hetzendorf, adjoining
the gardens of the imperial palace of Schönbrunn, where the Elector, his old patron, was living
in retirement. Trees were his delight. In a letter to Madame von Drossdick, he says: "Woods,
trees, and rocks give the response which man requires. Every tree seems to say, 'Holy, Holy!'"
In the midst of these delightful surroundings he found his favorite tree, at whose base he
composed the larger part of the oratorio, as well as his opera "Fidelio." Schindler says: "A
circumstance connected with both these great works, and of which Beethoven many years afterwards
still retained a lively recollection, was, that he composed them in the thickest part of the
wood in the park of Schönbrunn, seated between the two stems of an oak, which shot out from
the main trunk at the height of about two feet from the ground. This remarkable tree, in that
part of the park to the left of the Gloriett, I found with Beethoven in 1823, and the sight
of it called forth interesting reminiscences of the former period." The words of the oratorio
were by Huber, the author of Winter's "Unterbrochene Opferfest," and were written, with Beethoven's
assistance, in fourteen days. That more time and attention were not given to the text was probably
regretted by both poet and composer many times afterwards. The first performance of the work
in its entirety took place at Vienna, April 5, 1803, at the Theater an der Wien, upon which
occasion the programme also included the Symphony in D (second) and the Piano Concerto in C
minor, the latter executed by himself. The oratorio was received with enthusiasm, and was repeated
three times during that year.

The libretto of the work is unquestionably defective in the most salient qualities which should
characterize the text of an oratorio, even to the degree of extravagance and sensationalism.
It fails to reflect the sorrowful character of the scene it depicts, and the dramatic requirements
which it imposes are often strained, and sometimes border on the grotesque. The theatrical
style of the narrative was deplored by Beethoven himself at a subsequent period. Marx, one
of the keenest of critics, says of the work:--

  "The poet had no other aim but that of making verses for a composer;
  the latter, no other motive than the ordinary creative impulse
  prompting him to try his powers in a different and important sphere.
  The result on both sides could not therefore be other than phrases,
  although the better of the two proceeded from the composer, and that
  composer was Beethoven. To conceal or palliate this would be derogatory
  to the reverence which we all owe to Beethoven; he stands too high to
  be in need of extenuation."

This is Marx's judgment; and yet it must be said that the world for the most part has found
more in the "Mount of Olives" than he has.

The oratorio is written for three solo voices (Jesus, Peter, and a Seraph), chorus, and orchestra.
The narrative opens with the agony in the garden, followed by the chant of a Seraph reciting
the divine goodness and foretelling the salvation of the righteous. In the next scene Jesus
learns his fate from the Seraph, yields himself to approaching death, and welcomes it. The
Soldiers enter in pursuit, and a tumult ensues as the Apostles find themselves surrounded.
Peter draws his sword and gives vent to his indignation; but is rebuked both by Jesus and the
Seraph, and together they conjure him to be silent and endure whatever may happen. The Soldiers,
discovering Jesus, rush upon him and bind him. The Disciples express their apprehension that
they too will suffer; but Jesus uncomplainingly surrenders himself, and a chorus of rejoicing
completes the work. From this brief sketch the artificial and distorted manner of treating
the solemn subject will be evident.

The score opens with an adagio introduction for instruments which is of a very dramatic character,
and, unlike nearly all of the sacred music of that time, is noticeable for the absence of the
fugue. Barbedette, the great French critic, pronounces it the chef-d'oeuvre of introductions,
and a masterpiece in the serious style. The first number is a recitative and aria for tenor,
sung by Jesus ("All my Soul within me shudders"), which, notwithstanding the anomaly of such
a scene in such surroundings, is simple and touching in expression. The Seraph follows with
a scene and aria ("Praise the Redeemer's Goodness"), concluding with a brilliant and jubilant
obligato with chorus ("O triumph, all ye Ransomed"). The next number is an elaborate duet between
Jesus and the Seraph ("On me then fall Thy heavy Judgment"), which is still more anomalous
than the scene and aria with which Jesus opens the work. In a short recitative passage, Jesus
welcomes death; and then ensues one of the most powerful numbers in the work, the chorus of
Soldiers in march time ("We surely here shall find Him"), interspersed with the cries of the
People demanding his death, and the lamentations of the Apostles. At the conclusion of the
tumult a dialogue ensues between Jesus and Peter ("Not unchastised shall this audacious Band"),
which leads up to the crowning anomaly of the work, a trio between Jesus, Peter, and the Seraph,
with chorus ("O, Sons of Men, with Gladness"). The closing number, a chorus of angels ("Hallelujah,
God's Almighty Son"), is introduced with a short but massive symphony leading to a jubilant
burst of Hallelujah, which finally resolves itself into a glorious fugue, accompanied with
all that wealth of instrumentation of which Beethoven was the consummate master. In all sacred
music it is difficult to find a choral number which can surpass it in majesty or power.

The English versions of the "Mount of Olives" differ materially from the German in the text.
Numerous efforts have been made to avoid the incongruity of the original narrative, but with
poor success. It was first produced in England in 1814 by Sir George Smart during the Lenten
oratorios at Drury Lane, the English version of which was made by Arnold, at that time manager
of the King's Theatre. Still later it was produced again, and the adapter compromised by using
the third person, as "'Jehovah, Thou, O Father,' saith the Lord our Saviour." Two other versions
were made by Thomas Oliphant and Mr. Bartholomew, but these were not successful. At last the
aversion to the personal part of Jesus led to an entirely new text, called "Engedi," the words
of which were written by Dr. Henry Hudson, of Dublin, and founded upon the persecution of David
by Saul in the wilderness, as described in parts of chapters xxiii., xxiv., and xxvi. of the
first book of Samuel. The characters introduced are David, Abishai, and the Prophetess, the
latter corresponding to the Seraph in the original. The compiler himself in his preface says:--

  "So far as was possible, the author has availed himself of Scripture
  language, and David's words have been taken (almost wholly) from the
  Psalms generally attributed to him, though of course not in regular
  order, as it has invariably throughout been the writer's first object
  to select words adapting themselves to the original music in its
  continually varying expression, which could not have been done had he
  taken any one psalm as his text. How far the author has succeeded, he
  must leave to others to determine."

The substituted story has not proved successful, principally because the music, which was written
for an entirely different one, is not adapted to it. The latest version is that of the Rev.
J. Troutbeck, prepared for the Leeds festivals, in which the Saviour is again introduced.

                                BENNETT.

William Sterndale Bennett, one of the most gifted and individual of English composers, was
born at Sheffield, April 13, 1816. His musical genius displayed itself early, and in his tenth
year he was placed in the Royal Academy of Music, of which in his later years he became principal.
He received his early instruction in composition from Lucas and Dr. Crotch, and studied the
piano with Cipriani Potter, who had been a pupil of Mozart. The first composition which gained
him distinction was the Concerto in D minor, written in 1832, which was followed by the Capriccio
in D minor. During the next three years he produced the overture to "Parisina," the F minor
Concerto, and the "Naïades" overture, the success of which was so great that a prominent musical
house in London offered to send him to Leipsic for a year. He went there, and soon won his
way to the friendship of Schumann and Mendelssohn. With the latter he was on very intimate
terms, which has led to the erroneous statement that he was his pupil. In 1840 he made a second
visit to Leipsic, where he composed his Caprice in E, and "The Wood Nymphs" overture. In 1842
he returned to England, and for several years was busily engaged with chamber concerts. In
1849 he founded the Bach Society, arranged the "Matthew Passion" music of that composer, as
well as the "Christmas Oratorio," and brought out the former work in 1854. The previous year
he was offered the distinguished honor of the conductorship of the Gewandhaus concerts at Leipsic,
but did not accept. In 1856 he was appointed conductor of the Philharmonic Society, and filled
the position for ten years, resigning it to take the head of the Royal Academy of Music. In
the same year he was elected musical professor at Cambridge, where he received the degree of
Doctor of Music and other honors. In 1858 his beautiful cantata, "The May Queen," was produced
at the Leeds Festival, and in 1862 the "Paradise and the Peri" overture, written for the Philharmonic
Society. In 1867 his oratorio, or, as he modestly terms it, "sacred cantata," "The Woman of
Samaria," was produced with great success at the Birmingham Festival. In 1870 he was honored
with a degree by the University of Oxford, and a year later received the empty distinction
of knighthood. His last public appearance was at a festival in Brighton in 1874, where he conducted
his "Woman of Samaria." He died Feb. 1, 1875, and was buried in Westminster Abbey with distinguished
honors. His musical ability was as widely recognized in Germany as in England,--indeed his
profound musical scholarship and mastery of problems in composition were more appreciated there.
Mr. Statham, in an admirable sketch, pronounces him a born pianist, and says that his wonderful
knowledge of the capabilities of the piano, and his love for it, developed into favoritism
in some of his concerted music. A friend of the composer, recalling some reminiscences of him
in "Fraser," says that his music is full of beauty and expression, displays a remarkable fancy,
a keen love of Nature, and at times true religious devotion, but that it does not contain a
single note of passion. His only sacred music is the short oratorio, "The Woman of Samaria,"
and four anthems: "Now, my God, let, I beseech Thee," "Remember now thy Creator," "O that I
knew," and "The Fool hath said in his Heart." It has been well said of him: "In his whole career
he never condescended to write a single note for popular effect, nor can a bar of his music
be quoted which in style and aim does not belong to what is highest in musical art."

                          The Woman of Samaria.

"The Woman of Samaria," a short, one-part oratorio, styled by its composer a "sacred cantata,"
was first produced at the Birmingham Festival, Aug. 27, 1867; though one of his biographers
affirms that as early as 1843 he was shown a chorus for six voices, treated antiphonally, which
Bennett himself informed him was to be introduced in an oratorio he was then contemplating,
and that this chorus, if not identical with "Therefore they shall come," in "The Woman of Samaria,"
is at least the foundation of it.

The work is written for four solo voices, chorus, and orchestra. The soprano takes the part
of the Woman of Samaria, the other parts being impersonal. The music for the contralto is mainly
declamatory. Tha tenor has a single aria, while the bass, with one exception, has the part
of Narrator, the words of our Saviour being attributed to him and invariably introduced in
the third personal form,--which is a striking proof of the devotional spirit of the composer,
as in all other instances, after the announcement by the Narrator, the Woman sings her own
words. The chorus, as in the passion-music of Bach, has the reflective numbers and moralizes
on the various situations as they occur, except in one number, "Now we believe," where it declaims
the words as a part of the narrative itself. The text for chorus is selected from appropriate
parts of the Scriptures which are in keeping with the events forming the groundwork of its
reflections.

The story is taken from the fourth chapter of the Gospel according to Saint John, and follows
literally the narrative of the journey of the Saviour into Samaria,--his rest at Jacob's well,
his meeting with the woman who came thither to draw water, and the conversation which followed;
the only interruptions being the reflections, not only by the chorus, but also by the contralto
and tenor, these episodes being taken mostly from the Prophecies and Psalms.

The oratorio opens with a brief instrumental introduction and chorale ("Ye Christian People,
now rejoice") for sopranos alone, the melody of which first appeared in the "Geistliche Lieder,"
issued at Wittenberg in 1535. The words are a translation of the old hymn, "Nun freut euch,
lieben Christen G'mein," to which the tune was formerly sung in Germany. The treatment of this
chorale, by combining it with the instrumental movement in opposing rhythms, shows the powerful
influence which the composer's close study of Bach had upon him. Its effect in introducing
the scenes which follow reminds one of the grace before the feast. It dies away in slow and
gentle numbers, and then follows the opening recitative of the oratorio proper ("Then cometh
Jesus to a City of Samaria"), sung by the contralto, and leading up to an arioso chorus ("Blessed
be the Lord God of Israel"), the words taken from the Gospel of Saint Luke. The next number
is a very graceful and artistic combination, opening with recitative for contralto, bass, and
soprano, leading to an adagio solo for bass ("If thou knewest the Gift of God"), and ending
with a closely harmonious chorus in the same rhythm ("For with Thee is the Well of Life"),
the words from the Psalms. The dialogue between Jesus and the Woman is then resumed, leading
to a solo by the latter ("Art Thou greater than our Father Jacob?"). The question is sung and
repeated in declamatory tones constantly increasing in power and expressive of defiance. Bennett
was a bitter opponent of Wagner; but in the unvocal and declamatory character of this solo,
and in the dramatic force he has given to it, to the sacrifice of melody, he certainly ventured
some distance in the Wagnerian direction. The next number, the reply of Jesus ("Whosoever drinketh"),
sung, as usual, by the bass voice, is in striking contrast with the question. Instead of full
orchestra, it has the accompaniment of the strings and first and second horns only, reminding
one of Bach's method of accompanying the part assigned to Jesus in his St. Matthew Passion.
This number is followed by a spirited fortissimo chorus ("Therefore with Joy shall ye draw
Water"), sung to the full strength of voice and orchestra. After the dialogue in which Jesus
acquaints the Woman with the incidents of her past life, the contralto voice has an exquisite
solo ("O Lord, Thou hast searched me out"), full of tenderness and expression, in which the
opening phrase is repeated in the finale and gains intensity by a change of harmony. The dialogue,
in which the divine character of Jesus becomes apparent to the Woman, is resumed, and leads
to a beautifully constructed chorus in six parts ("Therefore they shall come and sing"), followed
by an impressive and deeply devotional quartet for the principals, unaccompanied ("God is a
Spirit"),--to which an additional interest is lent from the fact that it was sung in Westminster
Abbey upon the occasion of the composer's funeral. A few bars of recitative lead to a chorus
in close, solid harmony ("Who is the Image of the Invisible God"), with organ accompaniment
only, which in turn, after a few more bars of recitative for contralto and soprano, is followed
by the chorus ("Come, O Israel"), sung pianissimo and accompanied by entire orchestra. The
next number, as the oratorio is now performed, is one which has been introduced. It is a soprano
aria, "I will love Thee, O Lord," which was found among the composer's manuscripts after his
death. The preface to the revised edition of the oratorio has the following reference to this
number:--

  "In justification of so bold a step as the introduction of a new
  number, it is interesting to point out that the composer felt the Woman
  of Samaria ought to sing a song of conversion in the portion of the
  cantata in which the new air is placed. It is clear from the original
  preface[2] that he thought of her as an impulsive woman who would
  naturally be carried from worldliness into the opposite extreme of
  religious devotion."

The introduction of the air also gives more importance to the soprano part and relieves the
succession of choral movements in the close of the work. The remaining numbers are the beautiful
chorale, "Abide with me, fast falls the Eventide;" the chorus, "Now we believe," one of the
most finished in the whole work; a short tenor solo ("His Salvation is nigh them that fear
Him"),--the only one in the oratorio for that voice; the chorus, "I will call upon the Lord;"
and the final imposing fugue, "Blessed be the Lord God of Israel." The last number is a fitting
close to a work which is not only highly descriptive of its subject throughout, but also full
of feeling and devotional reverence.

[2] "With regard to the Woman of Samaria herself, it will be plainly seen
  that the composer has treated her as a secular and worldly character,
  though not without indications here and there of that strong intuitive
  religious feeling which has never been denied to her. This feeling is
  especially shown when she says: 'I know that Messias cometh; when He is
  come He will tell us all things.' Also, towards the end of the
  narrative, where she passionately exclaims to the Samaritans: 'Come,
  see a man who told me all the things that ever I did: is not this the
  Christ?'"--Original Preface.

                                BERLIOZ.

Hector Berlioz, one of the most renowned of modern French composers, and an acute critic and
skilful conductor as well, was born, Dec. 11, 1803, at La Côte St. André, in France. His father
was a physician, and intended him for the same profession. He reluctantly went to Paris and
began the study of medicine; but music became his engrossing passion, and medicine was abandoned.
He entered the Conservatory as a pupil of Lesueur, and soon showed himself superior to all
his masters, except Cherubini,--which aroused a strong opposition to him and his compositions.
It was only after repeated trials that he took the first prize, with his cantata, "Sardanapale,"
which entitled him to go to Italy for three years. On his return to Paris he encountered renewed
antipathy. His music was not well received, and he was obliged to support himself by conducting
at concerts and writing articles for the press. As a final resort he organized a concert tour
through Germany and Russia, the details of which are contained in his extremely interesting
Autobiography. At these concerts his own music was the staple of the programmes, and it met
with great success, though not always played by the best of orchestras, and not always well
by the best, as his own testimony shows; for his compositions are very exacting, and call for
every resource known to the modern orchestra. The Germans were quick in appreciating his music,
but it was not until after his death that his ability was conceded in France. In 1839 he was
appointed librarian of the Conservatory, and in 1856 was made a member of the French Academy.
These were the only honors he received, though he long sought to obtain a professorship in
the Conservatory. A romantic but sad incident in his life was his violent passion for Miss
Smithson, an Irish actress, whom he saw upon the Paris stage in the rôle of Ophelia, at a time
when Victor Hugo had revived an admiration for Shakspeare among the French. He married her,
but did not live with her long, owing to her bad temper and ungovernable jealousy; though after
the separation he honorably contributed to her support out of the pittance he was earning.
Among his great works are the opera, "Benvenuto Cellini;" the symphony with chorus, "Romeo
and Juliet;" "Beatrice and Benedict;" "Les Troyens," the text from Virgil's "Æneid;" the symphony,
"Harold in Italy;" the symphony, "Funèbre et Triomphale;" the "Damnation of Faust;" a double
chorused "Te Deum;" the "Symphony Fantastique;" the "Requiem;" and the sacred trilogy, "L'Enfance
du Christ." Berlioz stands among all other composers as the foremost representative of "programme
music," and has left explicit and very detailed explanations of the meaning of his works, so
that the hearer may listen intelligently by seeing the external objects his music is intended
to picture. In the knowledge of individual instruments and the grouping of them for effect,
in warmth of imagination and brilliancy of color, and in his daring combinations and fantastic
moods, which are sometimes carried to the very verge of eccentricity, he is a colossus among
modern musicians. He died in Paris, March 8, 1869.

                              The Requiem.

Ferdinand Hiller writes in his "Künstlerleben:" "Hector Berlioz does not belong to our musical
solar system; he does not belong to the planets, neither to the large nor to the small. He
was a comet, shining far, somewhat eerie to look at, soon again disappearing; but his appearance
will remain unforgotten." The Requiem ("Messe des Morts") exemplifies Hiller's words. It is
colossal, phenomenal, and altogether unique. It is not sacred, for it never came from the heart.
It is not solemn, though it is a drama of death. It is a combination of the picturesque, fantastic,
and sublime, in a tone-poem dedicated to the dead.

In 1836 Berlioz was requested by M. de Gasparin, Minister of the Interior, to write a requiem
commemorating the victims of the July Revolution; but the work was not given to the public
until 1837, when it was sung at the Invalides in memory of General Damremont and the soldiers
killed at the siege of Constantina. It was subsequently asserted by Berlioz that Cherubini
had conspired with others in the Conservatory to prevent its performance and to secure that
of his own, by virtue of the precedence which his position gave him. The charge, however, must
have been a mere fancy on his part, as he had already written a letter to Cherubini, saying:--

  "I am deeply touched by the noble abnegation which leads you to refuse
  your admirable Requiem for the ceremony of the Invalides. Be convinced
  of my heartiest gratitude."

The work embraced ten numbers: I. Requiem and Kyrie ("Requiem æternam dona eis"); II., III.,
IV., V., and VI., including different motives taken from the hymn, "Dies Iræ;" VII. "Offertorium;"
VIII. "Hostias et Preces;" IX. "Sanctus;" X. "Agnus Dei." It will be observed that the composer
has not followed the formal sequences of the Mass, and that he has not only omitted some of
the parts, but has also frequently taken license with those which he uses. This may be accounted
for in two ways. First, he was not of a religious nature. Hiller, in the work already quoted,
says of him:

  "Of his Catholic education every trace had disappeared. Doubts of all
  sorts had possession of him, and the contempt of what he called
  'prejudice' bordered on the monstrous. Berlioz believed neither in a
  God nor in Bach."

Second, it is evident from the construction of the work throughout that it was his purpose
simply to give free rein to his fancy and to express, even at the risk of being theatrical,
the emotions of sublimity, terror, and awe called up by the associations of the subject. This
he could not have done with a free hand had he been bound down to the set forms of the Mass.

After a brief but majestic instrumental introduction, the voices enter upon the "Requiem,"--a
beautiful and solemn strain. The movement is built upon three melodies set to the words, "Requiem
æternam," "Tu decet Hymnus," and the "Kyrie," the accompaniment of which is very descriptive
and characteristic. The "Kyrie" is specially impressive, the chant of the sopranos being answered
by the tenors and basses in unison, and the whole closing with a dirge-like movement by the
orchestra.

The "Dies Iræ" is the most spirited as well as impressive number of the work. It is intensely
dramatic in its effects, indeed it might be called theatrical. Berlioz seems to have fairly
exhausted the resources of instruments to produce the feeling of awful sublimity and overwhelming
power, even to the verge of the most daring eccentricity and, as one prominent critic expressed
it, "terrible cataclysms." The first part of the "Dies Iræ" will always be remarkable for the
orchestral arrangement. After the climax of the motive, "Quantus tremor est futurus," there
is a pause which is significant by its very silence; it is the hush before the storm. Suddenly
from either angle of the stage or hall, in addition to the principal orchestra in front, four
smaller bands of trombones, trumpets, and tubas crash in with overwhelming power in the announcement
of the terrors of the day of judgment. The effect is like that of peal upon peal of thunder.
At its culmination the bass voices enter in unison upon the words, "Tuba mirum," in the midst
of another orchestral storm, which is still further heightened by an unusual number of kettledrums.
From the beginning to the close, this part of the "Dies Iræ" is simply cyclopean; words cannot
describe its overwhelming power. It is a relief when the storm has passed over, and we come
to the next verse ("Quid sum miser"), for the basses and tenors, though mostly for the first
tenors. It is a breathing spell of quiet delight. It is given in the softest of tone, and is
marked in the score to be sung with "an expression of humility and awe." It leads to the andante
number ("Rex tremendæ majestatis"), which is sung fortissimo throughout, and accompanied with
another tremendous outburst of harmonious thunder in crashing chords, which continues up to
the last eight bars, when the voices drop suddenly from the furious fortissimo to an almost
inaudible pianissimo on the words "Salve me." The next verse ("Quærens me") is an unaccompanied
six-part chorus in imitative style, of very close harmony. The "Dies Iræ" ends with the "Lachrymosa,"
the longest and most interesting number in the work. It is thoroughly melodic, and is peculiarly
strengthened by a pathetic and sentimental accompaniment, which, taken in connection with the
choral part against which it is set, presents an almost inexhaustible variety of rhythms and
an originality of technical effects which are astonishing. Its general character is broad and
solemn, and it closes with a return to the "Dies Iræ," with full chorus and all the orchestras.
This finishes the "Dies Iræ" section of the work.

The next number is the "Offertorium," in which the voices are limited to a simple phrase of
two notes, A alternating with B flat, which is never varied throughout the somewhat long movement.
It never becomes monotonous, however, so rich and varied is the instrumentation. The "Hostias
et Preces,"--sustained by the tenors and basses, a very solemn and majestic movement,--displays
another of Berlioz's eccentricities, the accompaniment at the close of the first phrase being
furnished by three flutes and eight tenor trombones, which one enemy of the composer says represents
the distance from the sublime to the ridiculous. The "Sanctus," a tenor solo with responses
by the sopranos and altos, is full of poetical, almost sensuous beauty, and is the most popular
number in the work. It closes with a fugue on the words "Hosanna in Excelsis." The final number
is the "Agnus Dei," a chorus for male voices, in which the composer once more employs the peculiar
combination of flutes and tenor trombones. In this number he also returns to the music of the
opening number, "Requiem æternam," and closes it with an "Amen" softly dying away. Thus ends
the Requiem,--a work which will always be the subject of critical dispute, owing to its numerous
innovations on existing musical forms and the daring manner in which the composer has treated it.

The following sketch of the first performance of the Requiem, taken from Berlioz's Autobiography,
will be found interesting in this connection. It is necessary to preface it with the statement
that the director of the Beaux-Arts had insisted that Habeneck should conduct the work. As
Berlioz had quarrelled with the old conductor, and had not been on speaking terms with him
for three years, he at first refused; but subsequently consented, on condition that he should
conduct at one full rehearsal. Berlioz says:--

  "The day of the performance arrived in the Church of the Invalides,
  before all the princes, peers, and deputies, the French press, the
  correspondents of foreign papers, and an immense crowd. It was
  absolutely essential for me to have a great success; a moderate one
  would have been fatal, and a failure would have annihilated me
  altogether.

  "Now, listen attentively.

  "The various groups of instruments in the orchestra were tolerably
  widely separated, especially the four brass bands introduced in the
  'Tuba mirum,' each of which occupied a corner of the entire orchestra.
  There is no pause between the 'Dies Iræ' and 'Tuba mirum,' but the pace
  of the latter movement is reduced to half what it was before. At this
  point the whole of the brass enters, first altogether, and then in
  passages, answering and interrupting, each a third higher than the
  last. It is obvious that it is of the greatest importance that the four
  beats of the new tempo should be distinctly marked, or else the
  terrible explosion which I had so carefully prepared, with combinations
  and proportions never attempted before or since, and which, rightly
  performed, gives such a picture of the Last Judgment as I believe is
  destined to live, would be a mere enormous and hideous confusion.

  "With my habitual mistrust, I had stationed myself behind Habeneck,
  and, turning my back on him, overlooked the group of kettledrums, which
  he could not see, when the moment approached for them to take part in
  the general mêlée. There are perhaps one thousand bars in my Requiem.
  Precisely in that of which I have just been speaking, when the movement
  is retarded and the wind instruments burst in with their terrible
  flourish of trumpets; in fact, just in the one bar where the
  conductor's motion is absolutely indispensable,--Habeneck puts down
  his baton, quietly takes out his snuffbox, and proceeds to take a
  pinch of snuff. I always had my eye in his direction, and instantly
  turned rapidly on one heel, and, springing before him, I stretched out
  my arm and marked the four great beats of the new movement. The
  orchestras followed me each in order. I conducted the piece to the end,
  and the effect which I had longed for was produced. When, at the last
  words of the chorus, Habeneck saw that the 'Tuba Mirum' was saved, he
  said: 'What a cold perspiration I have been in! Without you we should
  have been lost.' 'Yes, I know,' I answered, looking fixedly at him. I
  did not add another word.... Had he done it on purpose?... Could it be
  possible that this man had dared to join my enemy, the director, and
  Cherubini's friends, in plotting and attempting such rascality? I don't
  wish to believe it ... but I cannot doubt it. God forgive me if I am
  doing the man injustice!

  "The success of the 'Requiem' was complete, in spite of all the
  conspiracies--cowardly, atrocious, officious, and official--which would
  fain have hindered it."

                                 BRAHMS.

Johannes Brahms, one of the most eminent of living German composers, was born at Hamburg, May
7, 1833. His father was a double-bass player in the orchestra in that city, and devoted his
son at a very early age to his own profession. His first piano teacher was Cossell; but to
Eduard Marxsen, the Royal Music Director, he owes his real success as a composer. Brahms remained
in Hamburg until 1853, when he went upon a concert-tour with Reményí, the eccentric and somewhat
sensational Hungarian, who has been a familiar figure upon the American concert-stage. He remained
with him, however, but a very short time, for in October of that year they parted company.
Brahms had attracted the notice of Liszt and Joachim; and it may have been through their advice
that the musical partnership was dissolved. In any event, soon after leaving Reményí he went
to Düsseldorf and visited Schumann. It was the latter who announced him to the world in such
strong words as these:--

  "In following with the greatest interest the paths of these elect
  [Joachim, Naumann, Norman, Bargiel, Kirchner, Schäffer, Dietrich, and
  Wilsing], I thought that after such forerunners there would, and must
  at last, all on a sudden appear one whose mission it would be to utter
  the highest expression of his time in an ideal manner,--one who would
  attain mastery, not by degrees, but, like Minerva, would at once spring
  completely armed from the head of Cronion.... May the highest genius
  give him strength for that of which there is hope, as in him dwells
  also another genius, that of modesty! We bid him welcome as a strong
  champion."

The next year (1854) appeared his first works,--three sonatas, a trio, scherzo for piano, and
three books of songs. After a visit to Liszt at Weimar, he settled down as chorus-conductor
and music-teacher at the court of Lippe-Detmold, where he remained a few years. During this
period he devoted himself assiduously to composition. After leaving Detmold, he successively
resided in Hamburg, Zürich, and Baden-Baden, though most of his time has been spent in Vienna,
where he has directed the Singakademie and the concerts of the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde.
Schumann's prophecy has been made good; Brahms is to-day one of the most eminent of living
musicians. Among his most famous compositions are a Funeral Hymn for chorus and wind-band;
the "German Requiem;" "Triumphlied," for double-chorus and orchestra; "Schicksallied," for
chorus and orchestra; five symphonies; variations on a theme of Haydn, for orchestra; the Tragic
and Academic overtures; and several trios, quartets, quintets, sextets, concertos, and sonatas.

                           The German Requiem.

The "German Requiem," so called, is not a requiem in its sentiment, nor in any sense a religious
service. The poem is full of consolation for the mourner, of assurances of joy hereafter, of
warnings against the pomps and vanities of the world, and closes with the victory of the saints
over death and the grave. It might with more propriety be called "a sacred cantata." The work
has seven numbers,--two baritone solos and chorus, soprano solo and chorus, and four separate
choruses. It was first performed at Bremen on Good Friday, 1868, and in 1873 was first heard
in England. It was also given at the Cincinnati festival of 1884, under Mr. Thomas's direction.

The opening chorus ("Blessed are they that go mourning") is beautifully written, and is particularly
noticeable for the richness of its accompaniment. In the Funeral March, which follows, a very
graphic resemblance to the measured tread of the cortège is accomplished by the use of triple
time. In this, as well as in numerous other instances, the composer cuts loose from ordinary
methods, and in pure classical form and by the use of legitimate musical processes achieves
what others seek to effect by sensuous or purely imitative music. The third number ("Lord,
make me to know the Measure of my Days on Earth") opens with a baritone solo, followed by two
choral fugues, which are solidly constructed, though they are extremely difficult to sing,
and call for a chorus of unusual discipline and intelligence. The fourth, for chorus ("How
lovely is Thy Dwelling-place, O Lord of Hosts"), is in striking contrast with its predecessor,
being a slow movement, and very melodious in style. The fifth ("Ye now are sorrowful, grieve
not"), for soprano solo and chorus, shows the composer's unusual power as a song-writer, as
well as his melodious attractiveness when melody answers his purpose. In the next number, set
for chorus with baritone solo responses ("Here on Earth we have no continuing Place, we seek
now a heavenly one"), the character of the music changes again, and the resurrection of the
dead is pictured in fugal passages of tremendous power and difficulty. After the storm comes
the calm again in the finale ("Blessed are the Faithful who in the Lord are sleeping"), which
contains a reminiscence of the opening number, and closes the work in a gentle, but deeply
serious strain. It was the "German Requiem" which first made Brahms famous; it confirmed all
that Schumann had said of him. Its great difficulties require an extraordinary chorus and orchestra;
but when these can be had, the power and beauty of the work will always be conceded.

                                 COSTA.

Michael Costa, the eminent conductor and composer, was born at Naples, Feb. 4, 1810. Having
displayed musical aptitude at a very early age, he was placed in the Royal Academy of Music.
Before his twenty-first year he had composed several works, among them a mass for four voices,
a "Dixit Dominus," three symphonies, an oratorio, "La Passione," the ballet music to "Kenilworth,"
and the operas, "Il Delitto punito," "Il Sospetto funesto," "Il carcere d' Ildegonda," and
"Malvina,"--the last for the San Carlo at Naples. In 1829 he was sent to England by his master
Zingarelli to conduct one of the latter's compositions at Birmingham; and that country thereafter
became his home. The next year he was engaged at the King's Theatre, now known as Her Majesty's,
as piano-master, and two years later became the musical director. He was the first to bring
the band to its proper place, though he had to make a hard fight against the ballet, which
at that time threatened to absorb both singers and orchestra, and to sweep the musical drama
from the stage. He succeeded, however, and did much also to improve the composition of the
orchestra. While holding this position he wrote the ballets, "Une heure à Naples" and "Sir
Huon" for Taglioni, and "Alma" for Cerito, the beautiful quartet, "Ecco quel fiero istante,"
and the operas "Malek Adhel" for Paris in 1837, and "Don Carlos" for London in 1844. He remained
at Her Majesty's Theatre for fifteen years, during which time he did a great work for singers
and band, and reduced the ballet to its proper rank. In 1846 he left his position and went
to the new Italian opera at Covent Garden, where he remained for a quarter of a century, absolute
in his musical supremacy and free to deal with all works as he pleased, among them those of
Meyerbeer, at that time the most prominent composer in the operatic world; for Wagner as yet
was scarcely known. It is to Costa that Meyerbeer owes his English reputation. In the same
year (1846) he took the direction of the Philharmonic orchestra, and two years later that of
the Sacred Harmonic Society, which he held until his death, and as conductor of which he also
directed the Handel festivals. In 1849 he was engaged for the Birmingham festivals, and also
conducted them until his death. In 1854 he resigned his position with the Philharmonic, and
his successor, for a brief time only, was Richard Wagner. His oratorio, "Eli," was composed
for the Birmingham Festival of 1855, and his second oratorio, "Naaman," for the same festival
in 1864. In 1869 he was knighted, and shortly afterwards, when his "Eli" was produced at Stuttgart,
it won for him the royal order of Frederick from the King of Würtemberg. He also had decorations
from the sovereigns of Germany, Turkey, Italy, and the Netherlands, in recognition of his musical
accomplishments. In 1871 he returned again to Her Majesty's Opera in the capacity of "director
of the music, composer, and conductor;" but a few years ago he again dissolved his connection
with it, and devoted himself entirely to the private management and public direction of the
Sacred Harmonic Society, with which he was identified for over thirty years. He died in April,
1884.

                                  Eli.

The oratorio of "Eli," the text taken from the first book of Samuel, and adapted by William
Bartholomew, was first performed at the Birmingham Festival, Aug. 29, 1855, under Costa's own
direction, with Mesdames Viardot and Novello and Messrs. Sims Reeves and Carl Formes in the
principal parts. The characters are Eli, Elkanah, Hannah, Samuel, the Man of God, Saph the
Philistine warrior, Hophni and Phinehas the sons of Eli, and the Priests and Philistines as
chorus. The story is not very consistent in its outlines, and is fragmentary withal, the narrative
of the child Samuel being the central theme, around which are grouped the tribulations of Elkanah
and Hannah, the service of Eli the priest, the revels of his profligate sons, and the martial
deeds of the Philistines.

The overture opens with a pianissimo prelude for organ in chorale form, followed by an orchestral
fugue well worked up, but very quiet in character. Indeed, the whole overture is mostly pianissimo.
In striking contrast follows the opening recitative for bass ("Blow ye the Trumpet"), which
is the signal for those instruments, and introduces the first chorus ("Let us go to pray before
the Lord"), beginning with a soft staccato which gradually works up to a jubilant climax on
the words "Make a joyful Noise." A tenor solo for Elkanah is interwoven with the chorus, which
closes with broad, flowing harmony. The next number, a bass air with chorus ("Let the People
praise Thee"), is somewhat peculiar in its construction. It begins with the air, which is slow
and tender, and at the close the chorus takes it in canon form. Then Eli intones benedictions
in chorale style, and the chorus responds with "Amens" in full harmony at the end of each,
making a very impressive effect. It is followed by a very elaborate chorus ("Blessed be the
Lord"), closing with a fugue on the word "Amen," which is very clear and well worked up. The
next number is the sorrowful prayer of the barren and grieving Hannah ("Turn Thee unto me"),
which is very expressive in its mournful supplication, and splendidly contrasted with her joyous
song after the birth of Samuel, of which mention will be made in its proper connection. Eli
rebukes her, and a dialogue ensues, interrupted by the tender chorus, "The Lord is good." The
dialogue form is again renewed, this time by Elkanah and Hannah, leading to a beautiful duet
between them ("Wherefore is thy Soul cast down?").

The character of the music now changes as we enter upon a long drinking-chorus, with solos
by the two revellers, Hophni and Phinehas ("For everything there is a Season"). The change
from the seriousness of the preceding numbers is very abrupt, and the music of the chorus is
decidedly of the conventional Italian drinking-song character. Eli appears and rebukes them,
and after a cantabile aria ("Thou shouldst mark Iniquities"), a short chorus of Levites, for
tenors and basses, ensues, introducing a simple, but well-sustained chorale for full chorus
("How mighty is Thy Name"). At this point the "Man of God" appears, rebuking the Levites for
their polluted offerings. His denunciations are declaimed in strong, spirited phrases, accompanied
by the chorus of the people ("They have profaned it"), beginning in unison. The scene now changes
to the camp of the Philistines, where Saph, their man of war, shouts out his angry and boisterous
defiance in his solo ("Philistines, hark, the Trumpet sounding"). It is followed by a choral
response from the Philistines ("Speed us on to fight"), which is in the same robust and stirring
style, though the general effect is theatrical and somewhat commonplace. Combined with it is
a choral response by the priests of Dagon, of an Oriental character. After this clash of sound
follows an air of a sombre style by Eli ("Hear my Prayer, O Lord"), the introduction and accompaniment
of which are very striking. The "Man of God" once more appears, announcing the approaching
death of Eli's sons to a weird, sepulchral accompaniment of the reeds and trombones, and leading
up to a very effective duet between them ("Lord, cause Thy Face to shine upon Thy Servant").
Another chorale ensues ("O make a joyful Noise"), and after a brief recitative Hannah has a
most exultant song, overflowing with love and gratitude at the birth of Samuel ("I will extol
Thee, O Lord"). The first part closes with a brief recitative between Hannah and Eli, preluding
a fugued chorus ("Hosanna in the highest"), built up on two motives and one of the most elaborate
numbers in the oratorio.

The second part opens with a chaste and lovely melody, the morning prayer of the child Samuel
("Lord, from my Bed again I rise"), followed with some pretty recitative between the child
and his parents, and an unaccompanied quartet, set to the same choral theme that was heard
in the organ prelude to the overture. The next number is the long and showy instrumental march
of the Israelites, followed by two very striking choruses,--the first ("Hold not Thy Peace
and be not still, O God") of which appeals for divine help against the enemy, and the second,
an allegro ("O God, make them like a Wheel"), leads into a fugue ("So persecute them"), which
is very energetic in character, and closes with the martial hymn, "God and King of Jacob's
Nation," sung to the melody of the preceding march.

The oratorio abounds in contrasts, and here occurs another, the evening prayer of Samuel ("This
Night I lift my Heart to Thee"),--a pure, quiet melody, gradually dying away as he drops asleep,
and followed by an angel chorus for female voices with harp accompaniment ("No Evil shall befall
thee"), the effect of which is very beautiful, especially in the decrescendo at the close.
A messenger suddenly arrives, announcing the defeat of Israel by the Philistines, upon which
the chorus bursts out with one of the most telling numbers, both in the voice parts and the
descriptiveness of the accompaniment ("Woe unto us, we are spoiled!"). Some very dramatic recitative
between Samuel and Eli follows, after which the Levites join in the chorus, "Bless ye the Lord,"
opening with the tenors and closing in four parts, with the call of Eli intervening ("Watchmen,
what of the Night?"). A long recitative by Samuel ("The Lord said"), foreshadowing the disasters
to the house of Eli; an air by Eli ("Although my House be not with God"); a funeral chorus
by the Israelites ("Lament with a doleful Lamentation"); further phrases of recitative announcing
more defeats of Israel, the capture of the ark, the death of Eli and his sons, and an appeal
by Samuel to blow the trumpet, calling a solemn assembly to implore the pity of the Lord,--prepare
the way for the final chorus ("Blessed be the Lord"), closing with a fugue on the word "Hallelujah."

The oratorio was first given in this country by the Boston Handel and Haydn Society, Feb. 15,
1857, under the direction of Carl Zerrahn, with Mr. Thomas Ball as Eli and also as Saph, Mr.
Wilde as the Man of God, Mr. C. R. Adams as Elkanah, Mrs. Long as Hannah, and Miss Hawley in
the contralto part of Samuel. Writing of that performance, Mr. Dwight, the careful and discriminating
critic, summed up the work as follows: "As a whole, 'Eli' is a noble and impressive oratorio.
The composition is learned and musician-like, and generally appropriate, tasteful, dignified,
often beautiful, and occasionally grand. It is by no means a work of genius, but it is a work
of high musical culture, and indicates a mind imbued with the best traditions and familiar
with the best masters of the art, and a masterly command of all the modern musical resources,
except the 'faculty divine,'"--which, we may be permitted to say, is not included in "modern
musical resources." The characterization of the oratorio, however, is thoroughly pertinent
and complete. It is somewhat remarkable that a work so excellent and having so many elements
of popularity should not be given more frequently in this country.

                              ANTON DVORÁK.

Anton Dvorák, the Bohemian composer who has risen so suddenly into prominence, was born at
Mülhausen, near Prague, Sept. 8, 1841. His father combined the businesses of tavern-keeper
and butcher, and young Dvorák assisted him in waiting upon customers, as well as in the slaughtering
business. As the laws of Bohemia stipulate that music shall be a part of common-school education,
Dvorák learned the rudiments in the village school, and also received violin instruction. At
the age of thirteen he went to work for an uncle who resided in a village where the schoolmaster
was a proficient musician. The latter, recognizing his ability, gave him lessons on the organ,
and allowed him to copy music. Piano-lessons followed, and he had soon grounded himself quite
thoroughly in counterpoint. At the age of sixteen he was admitted to the organ-school at Prague,
of which Joseph Pitsch was the principal. Pitsch died shortly after, and was succeeded by Kreyci,
who made Dvorák acquainted with the music of Mozart, Beethoven, and Mendelssohn. The first
orchestral work which he heard was Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," during its rehearsal under
Spohr's direction. In 1860, being then in his nineteenth year, he obtained an engagement, with
the meagre salary of $125 a year, as violinist in a band that played at cafés and dances. Two
years later he secured a position in the Bohemian Opera-House at Prague, then under the direction
of Mayer, where he remained until 1871, in which year he left the theatre and devoted himself
to teaching, with the prospect of earning $250 a year. These were hard days for the young musician;
but while he was thus struggling for a bare subsistence he continued writing compositions,
though he had no prospect of selling them or of having them played. One writer remarks on this
point: "It is far from difficult to compare him in this respect with that marvellous embodiment
of patience and enthusiasm, Franz Schubert; only, more fortunate than the Viennese master,
the Bohemian has lived to receive his reward. Between these two men another point of resemblance
appears. Neither can be charged with pushing or intriguing himself into prominence. Schubert
had plenty of artistic ambition, but of personal ambition none; while the quality he so entirely
lacked cannot be accredited to Dvorák, who spent the best part of his life in the enjoyment
of merely local fame." About this time he wrote his "Patriotic Hymn" and the opera "König und
Köhler." The latter was rejected after an orchestral trial; but he continued his work, undaunted
by failure. Shortly after this he received the appointment of organist at the Adelbert Church,
Prague, and fortune began to smile upon him. His symphony in F was laid before the Minister
of Instruction in Vienna, and upon the recommendation of Herbeck secured him a grant of $200.
When Brahms replaced Herbeck on the committee which reported upon artists' stipends, he fully
recognized Dvorák's ability, and not only encouraged him, but also brought him before the world
by securing him a publisher and commending him to Joachim, who still further advanced his interests
by securing performances of his works in Germany and England. Since that time he has risen
rapidly, and is now recognized as one of the most promising of living composers. Among his
works which have been produced during the past few years are the "Stabat Mater," the cantata
"The Spectre Bride," three operas in the Czechist dialect, three orchestral symphonies, several
Slavonic rhapsodies, overtures, violin and piano concertos, an exceedingly beautiful sextet,
and numerous songs.

                            The Stabat Mater.

Dvorák's "Stabat Mater" was written in 1875. It was sent to the Austrian Minister of Instruction,
but was not deemed worthy of the grant of $200 which the composer had expected. Its merit was
subsequently recognized by Brahms and Joachim, and the latter secured a hearing of it in London
in 1883. It immediately made its composer famous. The Philharmonic Society invited him to London,
and the work was given with great success at the Albert Hall, and later at the Worcester and
Hereford festivals. It was in England indeed that his celebrity was established, and for that
country all his new works are now written.

The "Stabat Mater" is written for soli, chorus, and orchestra, and comprises ten numbers. The
first is the quartet and chorus, "Stabat Mater dolorosa," and carries the old Latin hymn as
far as the "Quis est homo." After an orchestral introduction which gives out the principal
motives on which the number is based, the vocal quartet begins. The materials of which it is
composed are very simple, but they are worked up with great technical skill. The general effect
is tragic rather than pathetic, as if the composer were contemplating not so much the grief
of the Virgin Mother at the foot of the Cross as the awful nature of the tragedy itself and
its far-reaching consequences.

The second number is the quartet "Quis est homo." After a short introduction, the theme is
taken by the alto, followed by the tenor and bass, and lastly by the soprano, the general structure
growing more elaborate at each entrance. After the second subject is introduced a splendid
climax is reached, and in the coda the voices whisper the words "vidit suum" to an accompaniment
of wind instruments in sustained and impressive chords.

The third number, "Eia Mater," is built up on an exceedingly brief motive, which is augmented
with surprising power in choral form. It is a work of scholarly skill, and yet is full of charm
and grace, and will always commend itself even to the untutored hearer by its tenderness and
pathetic beauty.

The fourth number, "Fac ut ardeat cor meum," for bass solo and chorus, like the third is most
skilfully constructed out of small materials, and has a fine contrast between the solo and
the chorus, which at its entrance is assigned to the female voices only, with organ accompaniment.

The fifth number is the chorus "Tui nati vulnerati," which is remarkable for the smooth and
flowing manner in which its two subjects are treated.

The sixth number, "Fac me vere tecum flere," for tenor solo and chorus, is very elaborate in
its construction. A stately theme is given out by the tenor, repeated in three-part harmony
by male voices, the accompaniment being independent in form; the subject then returns, first
for solo, and then for male voices, in varying harmonies. After a brief vocal episode the subject
reappears in still different form, and, followed by the episode worked up at length in a coda,
brings the number to its close.

The seventh number, "Virgo, virgonum præclara," for full chorus, is marked by great simplicity
and tenderness, and will always be one of the most popular sections of the work.

The eighth number, "Fac ut portem," is a duet for soprano and tenor, responsive in character,
and constructed on very simple phrases presented in varying forms both by the voices and orchestra.

The ninth number, "Inflammatus et accensus," is one of the most masterly in the whole work.
It is an alto solo composed of two subjects, the first very majestic, and the second pathetic
in character, forming a contrast of great power and beauty.

The tenth and closing number, "Quando corpus morietur," for quartet and chorus, is constructed
substantially upon the same themes which appeared in the "Stabat Mater," and closes with an
"Amen" of a massive character, exhibiting astonishing contrapuntal skill. One of the best English
critics says of the whole work:--

  "The 'Stabat Mater' approaches as near to greatness as possible, if it
  be not actually destined to rank among world-renowned masterpieces. It
  is fresh and new, while in harmony with the established canons of art;
  and though apparently labored and over-developed in places, speaks with
  the force and directness of genius."

                                 GOUNOD.

Charles François Gounod was born in Paris, June 17, 1818. His fame has been made world-wide
by the extraordinary success of his opera "Faust," and yet more than almost any other operatic
composer of modern times he has devoted himself to sacred music. His earlier studies were pursued
in Paris at the Conservatory, under the tuition of Paër and Lesueur, and in 1839 the receipt
of the Grand Prix gave him the coveted opportunity to go to Italy. In the atmosphere of Rome
religious influences made a strong impression upon him. He devoted himself assiduously to the
study of Palestrina, and among his first important compositions were a mass performed at the
Church of San Luigi dei Francesi in 1841, and a second, written without accompaniment, which
was given in Vienna two years later. On his return to Paris, religious ideas still retained
their sway over him, and he became organist and conductor at the Missions étrangères. He even
contemplated taking orders, and attended a theological course for two years. In 1846 he became
a pupil at the Séminaire; but at last he gave up his priestly intentions and devoted himself
wholly to musical composition, though he has been, if not a devotee, a religious enthusiast
all his life, and that too in the midst of a peculiarly worldly career. It was about this period
that he wrote his "Messe Solenelle" in G,--the first of his compositions that was ever produced
in England. It was cordially received, and he was universally recognized as a promising musician.
For many years succeeding this event he devoted himself mainly to secular music, and opera
after opera rapidly came from his pen,--"Sappho" (1851); "Nonne Sanglante" (1854); "Le Médecin
malgré lui" (1858); "Faust," his greatest work, and one of the most successful of modern operas
(1859); "Philémon et Baucis" (1860); "Reine de Saba" (1862); "Mireille" (1864); "La Colombe"
(1866); "Roméo et Juliette" (1867); "Cinq Mars" (1877), and "Polyeucte" (1878). Notwithstanding
the attention he gave to opera and to much other secular music, he found ample time for the
composition of sacred works. In 1852, while in Paris, he became conductor of the Orphéon, and
for the pupils of that institution he composed two masses. He has also written a great number
of pieces for choir use which are very popular, and deservedly so, particularly the beautiful
song "Nazareth." Among his larger works are a "Stabat Mater," with orchestral accompaniment;
the oratorio "Tobie;" a "De Profundis" and an "Ave Verum;" and the two oratorios, "The Redemption,"
performed at Birmingham in 1882, and "Mors et Vita," brought out at the same place in 1885.
The composer is now engaged upon the scheme of a new oratorio, the career of Joan of Arc being
its subject. It may be said in closing this sketch, which has been mainly confined to a consideration
of his sacred compositions, as his operatic career has been fully treated in "Standard Operas,"
that in 1873 he wrote the incidental music to Jules Barbier's tragedy, "Jeanne d'Arc," which
may have inspired his determination to write an oratorio on the same subject.

                             The Redemption.

"The Redemption, a Sacred Trilogy," is the title which Gounod gave to this work, and on its
opening page he wrote: "The work of my life." In a note appended to his description of its
contents he says:--

  "It was during the autumn of the year 1867 that I first thought of
  composing a musical work on the Redemption. I wrote the words at Rome,
  where I passed two months of the winter 1867-68 with my friend Hébert,
  the celebrated painter, at that time director of the Academy of France.
  Of the music I then composed only two fragments: first, 'The March to
  Calvary' in its entirety; second, the opening of the first division of
  the third part, 'The Pentecost.' Twelve years afterwards I finished the
  work, which had so long been interrupted, with a view to its being
  performed at the festival at Birmingham in 1882."

It was brought out, as he contemplated, in August of that year, and the production was a memorable
one. It was first heard in this country in the winter of 1883-84 under Mr. Theodore Thomas's
direction, and was one of the prominent works in his series of festivals in the latter year.

Gounod himself has prefaced the music with an admirably concise description of the text and
its various subjects. Of its general contents he says:

  "This work is a lyrical setting forth of the three great facts on which
  depends the existence of the Christian Church. These facts are,--first,
  the passion and the death of the Saviour; second, his glorious life on
  earth from his resurrection to his ascension; third, the spread of
  Christianity in the world through the mission of the Apostles. These
  three parts of the present trilogy are preceded by a prologue on the
  creation, the fall of our first parents, and the promise of a
  redeemer."

The divisions of the work are as follows:--

  Prologue.--The Creation.
  Part I.--Calvary.
  Part II.--From the Resurrection to the Ascension.
  Part III.--The Pentecost.

The prologue comprises the Mosaic account of the creation and fall of man, involving the necessity
of divine mediation, the promise of redemption, and the annunciation of the mystery of the
incarnation of the Holy Virgin. After a brief instrumental introduction, descriptive of chaos,
the tenor Narrator announces the completion of creation in recitative, followed by a similar
declamation from the bass Narrator announcing the fall of man, the tenor Narrator answering
with the announcement of the Redeemer's advent ("But of the Spotless Lamb"), in which we have
for the first time a genuine Wagnerian leit motif, which runs through the music of the oratorio
whenever allusion is made to the divine atonement. This typical melody is heard nine times,--three
times in the prologue, twice in the scene of the crucifixion, once in our Saviour's promise
to the thieves on the cross, once in his appearance to the holy women, and twice in the ascension.
It is first given out as a violin solo, and at the close of the tenor recitative is repeated
by all the strings, leading to the mystic chorale, "The Earth is my Possession," to be sung
by a celestial choir of twenty-eight voices. At its close the typical melody is introduced
in responsive form between flute and clarinet. To the first, the angelic message of the annunciation,
Gounod has affixed the title, "Ave, gratia plena;" and to the second, the reply of Mary, "Fiat
mihi secundum verbum tuum."

The first part includes the march to Calvary, which is divided into six separate numbers, yet
so connected as to make a single musical series,--the crucifixion, Mary at the foot of the
cross, the dying thieves, the death of Jesus, and the confession of his divinity by the centurion.
It opens with the story of the condemnation of the Man of Sorrows by Pilate, told by the bass
Narrator, the words of Jesus himself, however, being used invariably in the first person, and
sung by the baritone voice, as when he says, "If my Deeds have been evil," immediately following
the bass recitative. After another monologue by the Narrator, ensues the march to the cross,--an
instrumental number which is brilliant in its color effects and somewhat barbaric in tone.
Without any break, the sopranos enter with the words, "Forth the Royal Banners go," set to
a melody from the Roman Catholic liturgy; after which the march is resumed. The bass Narrator
tells the story of the women who followed lamenting, interrupted by a semi-chorus of sopranos
singing the lament, and by the words of Jesus, "Ye Daughters of Israel, weep not for me." Again
the march is heard, and the sopranos resume ("Forth the Royal Banners go"). The tenor Narrator
recites the preparation for the crucifixion, accompanied by very descriptive music, and followed
by a stormy chorus of the People ("Ha! thou that didst declare"), and the mocking cries of
the priests ("Can he now save himself?"), sung by a male chorus. In a pathetic monologue Jesus
appeals for their pardon, which leads to an elaborate concerted number for chorus or quartet,
called "The Reproaches." A conversation ensues between Jesus and Mary, followed by the quartet,
"Beside the Cross remaining," in canon form, preluding the chorale, "While my Watch I am keeping,"
at first sung by Mary, and then taken up by the full chorus, accompanied by organ, trombones,
and trumpets. The next scene is that between Jesus and the two Thieves, which also leads to
a chorale ("Lord Jesus, thou to all bringest Light and Salvation"). This number contains the
last touch of brightness in the first part. Immediately the bass Narrator announces the approach
of the awful tragedy. The gathering darkness is pictured by a vivid passage for strings and
clarinet, succeeded by the agonizing cries of the Saviour. The bass Narrator declares the consummation
of the tragedy, and then with the tenor Narrator describes the throes of Nature ("And then
the Air was filled with a Murmur unwonted"), the rending of the veil of the Temple, the breaking
of the rocks, the earthquake, and the visions of the saintly apparitions. The last number is
the conviction of the centurion, followed by a short chorale ("For us the Christ is made a
Victim availing").

The second part includes the announcement of the doctrine of the resurrection by the mystic
chorus, the appearance of the Angel to the Holy Women at the sepulchre, that of Jesus to them
while on the way to Galilee, the consternation of the Sanhedrim when it is learned that the
tomb is empty, the meeting of the Holy Women and the Apostles, the appearance of Jesus to the
latter, and his final ascension. It opens with a chorus for the mystic choir ("Saviour of Men"),
followed by a short pastorale with muted strings and leading to a trio for the three Women
("How shall we by ourselves have Strength to roll away the Stone?"). Their apprehensions are
removed by the tenor Narrator and the message of the Angel interwoven with the harp and conveyed
in the beautiful aria, "Why seek ye the Living among the Dead?" Jesus at last reveals himself
to the Women with the words, "All hail! Blessed are ye Women," accompanied by the typical melody,
of which mention has already been made. The three Women disappear on the way to convey his
message to the Disciples, and the scene changes to the Sanhedrim, where, in a tumultuous and
agitated chorus for male voices ("Christ is risen again"), the story of the empty tomb is told
by the Watchers. The bass Narrator relates the amazement of the priests and elders, and their
plot to bribe the guard, leading to the chorus for male voices ("Say ye that in the Night his
Disciples have come and stolen him away"), at the close of which ensues a full, massive chorus
("Now, behold ye the Guard, this, your Sleep-vanquished Guard"), closing with the denunciation
in unison ("For Ages on your Heads shall Contempt be outpoured"). The tenor and bass Narrators
in duet tell of the sorrow of the Disciples, which prepares the way for a lovely trio for first
and second soprano and alto ("The Lord he has risen again"). The next number is one of the
most effective in the whole work,--a soprano obligato solo, accompanied by the full strength
of chorus and orchestra, to the words:

      "From thy love as a Father,
      O Lord, teach us to gather
      That life will conquer death.
      They who seek things eternal
      Shall rise to light supernal
      On wings of lovely faith."

In the close the effect is sublime, the climax reaching to C in alt with the full power of
the accompanying forces. Then follows a dialogue between the Saviour and his Apostles, in which
he gives them their mission to the world. The finale then begins with a massive chorus ("Unfold,
ye Portals everlasting"). The celestial chorus above, accompanied by harps and trumpets, inquire,
"But who is he, the King of Glory?" The answer comes in a stately unison by the terrestrial
chorus, "He who Death overcame." Again the question is asked, and again it is answered; whereupon
the two choirs are massed in the jubilant chorus, "Unfold! for lo the King comes nigh!" the
full orchestra and organ sounding the Redemption melody, and the whole closing with a fanfare
of trumpets.

The third part includes the prophecy of the millennium, the descent of the Holy Ghost to the
Apostles, the Pentecostal manifestations, and the Hymn of the Apostles. The latter is so important
that the composer's own analysis is appended:--

  "This division of the third part of the work, the last and one of the
  most highly developed of the trilogy, comprises seven numbers, and
  gives a summary of the Christian faith.

  "1. The Apostles first proclaim the three great doctrines of the
  Incarnation of the Word, his eternal generation, and his continual
  presence with his Church. This first number is written in a style which
  is intended to recall the form and rhythm of the chants called 'Proses'
  in the Catholic liturgy.

  "2. Quartet and Chorus. 'By faith salvation comes, and by peace
  consolation.'

  "3. Chorus. His power manifested by miracles.

  "4. Quartet. 'O come to me, all ye that are sad and that weep.'

  "5. Semi-Chorus. The Beatitudes.

  "6. Repetition of the theme of No. 1, with the whole choir, the
  orchestra, and the great organ.

  "7. Final Coda. Glorification of the Most Holy Trinity throughout all
  ages."

This part of the oratorio, after a short instrumental prelude, opens with a brief chorus ("Lovely
appear over the Mountains"), followed by a soprano solo, the only distinct number of that kind
in the work, set to the words, "Over the barren Wastes shall Flowers have possession," at its
close the chorus resuming in unison, "Lovely appear over the Mountains." The next number is
"The Apostles in Prayer," an instrumental sketch, followed by the Narrators relating the descent
of the Holy Spirit. Without break, the Apostles' Hymn begins, tenors and basses in unison ("The
Word is Flesh become") leading into the quartet of solo voices ("By Faith Salvation comes,
and by Peace, Consolation"). The chorus responds antiphonally, and again the solo voices are
heard in a lovely quartet ("He has said to all the Unhappy"), followed by a small choir of
thirty voices ("Blessed are the poor in Spirit"), at the end of which all the voices are massed
on the Apostles' Hymn, which closes in fugal form on the words, "He like the Holy Ghost is
one with the Father, an everlasting Trinity," the whole ending in massive chords.

                              Mors et Vita.

The oratorio "Mors et Vita" ("Death and Life") is the continuation of "The Redemption," and,
like that work also, is a trilogy. It was first performed at the Birmingham Festival, Aug.
26, 1885, under the direction of Herr Hans Richter, the principal parts being sung by Mesdames
Albani and Patey and Messrs. Santley and Lloyd. Its companion oratorio, "The Redemption," was
dedicated to Queen Victoria, and itself to His Holiness Pope Leo XIII. In his preface to the
work, Gounod says:--

  "It will perhaps be asked why, in the title, I have placed death before
  life, although in the order of temporal things life precedes death.
  Death is only the end of that existence which dies each day; it is only
  the end of a continual 'dying.' But it is the first moment, and, as it
  were, the birth of that which dies no more. I cannot here enter into a
  detailed analysis of the different musical forms which express the
  meaning and idea of this work. I do not wish to expose myself to the
  reproach either of pretension or subtlety. I shall therefore confine
  myself to pointing out the essential features of the ideas I have
  wished to express,--that is to say, the tears which death causes us to
  shed here below; the hope of a better life; the solemn dread of
  unerring justice; the tender and filial trust in eternal love."

The composer further calls attention in his preface to the use of representative themes, an
illustration of which was also noted in "The Redemption." The first one, consisting of four
notes, presenting a sequence of three major seconds, is intended to express "the terror inspired
by the sense of the inflexibility of justice and, in consequence, by that of the anguish of
punishment. Its sternness gives expression both to the sentences of divine justice and the
sufferings of the condemned, and is found in combination throughout the whole work, with melodic
forms which express sentiments altogether different, as in the 'Sanctus' and the 'Pie Jesu'
in the 'Requiem,' which forms the first part." It is first heard in the opening chorus, and
for the last time in the quartet of the third part. The second melodic form, expressive of
sorrow and tears, by the change of a single note and the use of the major key is made to express
consolation and joy. "The third," says Gounod, "by means of threefold superposition, results
in the interval of an augmented fifth, and announces the awakening of the dead at the terrifying
call of the angelic trumpets, of which Saint Paul speaks in one of his epistles to the Corinthians."

The oratorio is divided into a prologue and three parts, the Latin text being used throughout.
The first part is entitled "Mors," and opens with the prologue, which is brief, followed by
the "Requiem," interspersed with texts of a reflective character commenting upon the sentiment.
The second part is entitled "Judicium" ("Judgment"), and includes (1) The Sleep of the Dead;
(2) The Trumpets at the Last Judgment; (3) The Resurrection of the Dead; (4) The Judge; (5)
The Judgment of the Elect; (6) The Judgment of the Rejected. The third part is entitled "Vita,"
and includes the vision of Saint John, the text being taken from the Apocalypse; the work closing
with an "Hosanna in Excelsis," exulting in the glorious vision of the heavenly Jerusalem.

The prologue, which is sustained by the chorus and baritone solo, declares the terrors of death
and the judgment. Immediately after follows the baritone voice, that of Jesus, in the familiar
words, "I am the Resurrection and the Life." The chorus repeats the declaration, and the Requiem
Mass then begins, divided into various sections, of which the "Dies Iræ" is the most important;
this in turn subdivided in the conventional form. After an adagio prelude and the intonation
of the "Requiem æternam," an interpolated text occurs ("From the Morning Watch till the Evening"),
set as a double chorus without accompaniment, in the genuine Church style of the old masters.
It leads directly to the "Dies Iræ," in which the death motive already referred to frequently
occurs. It is laid out in duets, quartets, and arias, with and without chorus, very much in
the same tempo and of the same character of melody. The verse, "Ah! what shall we then be pleading?"
for quartet and chorus, is remarkable for its attractive melody. It is followed by a soprano
solo and chorus ("Happy are we, with such a Saviour") of a reflective character, which gives
out still another very tuneful melody. The hymn is then resumed with the verse, "Faint and
worn, thou yet hast sought us," for duet and chorus, which is of the same general character.
The next verse, "Lord, for Anguish hear us moaning," for quartet and chorus, is very effective
and elaborate in its construction, particularly as compared with that immediately following
("With the Faithful deign to place us"), a tenor solo of a quaint and pastoral character. The
next number for chorus ("While the wicked are confounded") affords still another striking contrast,
being in the grandiose style and very dramatic, closing with phrases for the solo voices expressive
of submission and contrition. Up to this point the "Dies Iræ" has been monotonous in its sameness
of general style; but the next verse ("Day of Weeping, Day of Mourning") is a beautiful and
thoroughly original number of very striking effect. It leads directly to the offertory ("O
Lord Jesus Christ, King of Glory"), which is composed of a chorus for eight parts, a soprano
solo ("But, Lord, do thou bring them evermore"), a chorus ("Which once to Abraham"), and a
second chorus ("Sacrifice of Prayer and Praise"). The soprano solo is a delightful melody,
sung to a delicate accompaniment of the strings, with occasional chords on the harp, and based
upon the beautiful second typical motive, which the composer styles "The Motive of Happiness."
The chorus, "Which once to Abraham," is set in fugue form, which is the conventional style
among composers with this number; but, as in "The Redemption," whenever Gounod employs the
fugue form, he drops it as soon as the four voices have fairly launched themselves.

The next number is the "Sanctus,"--a beautiful tenor aria with chorus, full of that sweetness
which is so characteristic of Gounod. It is followed by the quartet, "Mighty Saviour, Jesus
blest," which is deeply religious in character; the lovely soprano solo and chorus, "Agnus
Dei;" and the chorus, "Lord, forever let Light Eternal." The first part is rounded off with
an epilogue, an interlude for full orchestra and organ, based upon the first and second typical
melodies, forming a consistent and stately finale to this part of the work.

The second part is peculiar for the prominence which the composer assigns to the orchestra.
It opens with a well-sustained, gentle adagio movement, entitled "The Sleep of the Dead," which
at times is somewhat harshly interrupted by the third typical melody, announcing the awakening
of the dead at the terrifying call of the angelic trumpets. This is specially noticeable in
that part of the prelude called "The Trumpet of the Last Judgment," in which the trombones,
trumpets, and tubas are employed with extraordinary effect. Still a third phrase of the prelude
occurs,--"The Resurrection of the Dead,"--which is smooth and flowing in its style, and peculiarly
rich in harmony. A brief recitative by baritone ("But when the Son of Man") intervenes, immediately
followed by another instrumental number, entitled "Judex" ("The Judge"),--one of the most effective
pieces of orchestration in the oratorio, based upon the motive which indicates the tempering
of justice with mercy, given out by the strings in unison. It preludes a short chorus ("Sitting
upon the Throne"), the previous melody still continuing in the orchestra. The "Judgment of
the Elect" follows, pronounced by the baritone voice in recitative, and leading directly to
the soprano solo, "The Righteous shall enter into Glory eternal,"--the most exquisite solo
number in the work,--followed by an effective chorale ("In Remembrance everlasting"). Then
follows "The Judgment of the Rejected," consisting of baritone solos and chorus, closing the
second part.

The third part celebrates the delights of the celestial city as pictured in the apocalyptic
vision of Saint John, and is in marked contrast to the gloom and sombreness of the Requiem
music, as well as the terrors of the Judgment. It is bright, jubilant, and exultant throughout.
The title of the prelude is "New Heaven, New Earth." The baritone intones the recitative ("And
I saw the New Heaven"), which is followed by another delightful sketch for the orchestra ("Celestial
Jerusalem"),--a most vivid and graphic picture of the subject it describes. The remaining prominent
numbers are the "Sanctus" chorus, the celestial chorus ("I am Alpha and Omega"), and the final
chorus ("Hosanna in Excelsis"), which closes this remarkable work.

The weakest part of the oratorio is the "Requiem," which suffers from the monotony of its divisions,
especially when compared with the treatment of requiems by the great composers who have made
them a special study. As compared with the "Redemption," however, it is more interesting, because
it is more melodious and less cumbered with recitative. It is also peculiarly noticeable for
the free manner in which the composer uses the orchestra, and the skill with which the typical
melodies are employed, as compared with which the solitary "Redemption" motive seems weak and
thin. Both works are full of genuine religious sentiment, and taken together cover almost the
entire scope of human aspiration so far as it relates to the other world. No composer has conceived
a broader scheme for oratorio. Though Gounod does not always reach the sublime and majestic
heights of the old masters in sacred music, yet the feeling manifested in these works is never
anything but religious; the hearer is always surrounded by an atmosphere of devotion.

                                 HANDEL.

George Frederick Handel was born at Halle, in Lower Saxony, Feb. 23, 1685, and, like many another
composer, revealed his musical promise at a very early age, only to encounter parental opposition.
His father intended him to be a lawyer; but Nature had her way, and in spite of domestic antagonism
triumphed. The Duke of Saxe-Weissenfels recognized his ability and overcame the father's determination.
Handel began his studies with Zachau, organist of the Halle cathedral. After the death of his
father, in 1697, he went to Hamburg, and for a time played in the orchestra of the German opera.
It was during his residence in that city that he wrote his first opera, "Almira" (1705). In
the following year he went to Italy, where he remained several months under the patronage of
the Grand Duke of Florence. During the next two years he visited Venice, Rome, and Naples,
and wrote several operas and minor oratorios. In 1709 he returned to Germany, and the Elector
of Hanover, subsequently George I. of England, offered him the position of Capellmeister, which
he accepted upon the condition that he might visit England, having received many invitations
from that country. The next year he arrived in London and brought out his opera of "Rinaldo,"
which proved a great success. At the end of six months he was obliged to return to his position
in Hanover; but his English success made him impatient of the dulness of the court. In 1712
he was in London again, little dreaming that the Elector would soon follow him as king. Incensed
with him for leaving Hanover, the King at first refused to receive him; but some music which
Handel composed for an aquatic fête in his honor brought about the royal reconciliation. In
1718 he accepted the position of chapel-master to the Duke of Chandos, for whom he wrote the
famous Chandos Te Deum and Anthems, the serenata "Acis and Galatea," and "Esther," his first
English oratorio. In 1720 he was engaged as director of Italian opera by the society of noblemen
known as the Royal Academy of Music, and from that time until 1740 his career was entirely
of an operatic character. Opera after opera came from his pen. Some were successful, others
failed. At first composer, then director, he finally became impresario, only to find himself
confronted with bitter rivalry, especially at the hands of Buononcini and Porpora. Cabals were
instituted against him. Unable to contend with them alone, he formed a partnership with Heidegger,
proprietor of the King's Theatre, in 1729. It was broken in 1734, and he took the management
of Covent Garden. The Italian conspiracies against him broke out afresh. He failed in his undertaking,
and became a bankrupt. In eight years he had lost $51,000 in Italian opera. Slanders of all
sorts were circulated against him, and his works were no longer well received. In the midst
of his adversity sickness overtook him, ending with a partial stroke of paralysis. When sufficiently
recovered, he went to the Continent, where he remained for a few months. On his return to London
he brought out some new works, but they were not favorably received. A few friends who had
remained faithful to him persuaded him to give a benefit concert, which was a great success.
It inspired him with fresh courage; but he did not again return to the operatic world. Thenceforward
he devoted himself to oratorio, in which he made his name famous for all time. He himself said:
"Sacred music is best suited to a man descending in the vale of years." "Saul" and the colossal
"Israel in Egypt," written in 1740, head the list of his wonderful oratorios. In 1741 he was
invited to visit Ireland. He went there in November, and many of his works were produced during
the winter and received with great enthusiasm. In April, 1742, his immortal "Messiah" was brought
out at Dublin. It was followed by "Samson," "Joseph," "Semele," "Belshazzar," and "Hercules,"
which were also successful; but even in the midst of his oratorio work his rivals did not cease
their conspiracies against him, and in 1744 he was once more a bankrupt. For over a year his
pen was idle. In 1746 the "Occasional Oratorio" and "Judas Maccabæus" appeared, and these were
speedily followed by "Joshua," "Solomon," "Susanna," "Theodora," and "Jephtha." It was during
the composition of the last-named work that he was attacked with the illness which finally
proved fatal. He died April 14, 1759, and was buried in Westminster Abbey. During the last
few days of his life he was heard to express the wish that he "might breathe his last on Good
Friday, in hopes of meeting his good God, his sweet Lord and Saviour, on the day of his resurrection."
The wish was granted him; for it was on Good Friday that he passed away, leaving behind him
a name and fame that will be cherished so long as music retains its power over the human heart.

                            Israel in Egypt.

"Israel in Egypt," the fifth of the nineteen oratorios which Handel composed in England, was
written in 1738. The Exodus, which is now the second part, was written between the 1st and
the 11th of October, and was superscribed, "Moses' Song, Exodus, Chap. xv., begun Oct. 1, 1738;"
and at the close was written, "Fine, Oct. 11, 1738." It is evident from this that the work
was at first written as a cantata, but that Handel on reflection decided that the plagues of
Egypt would not only be a good subject, but would also prove a logical historical introduction
to the second part. Four days later he began the first part, and finished it on the 1st of
November,--the composition of the whole of this colossal work thus occupying but twenty-seven
days. It was first performed as "Israel in Egypt," April 4, 1739, at the King's Theatre, of
which Handel was then manager. It was given the second time April 11, "with alterations and
additions," the alterations having been made in order to admit of the introduction of songs.
The third performance took place April 17, upon which occasion the "Funeral Anthem," which
he had written for Queen Caroline, was used as a first part and entitled, "Lamentations of
the Israelites for the Death of Joseph." During the lifetime of Handel the oratorio was only
performed nine times, for in spite of its excellence, it was a failure. For many years after
his death it was produced in mutilated form; but in 1849 the Sacred Harmonic Society of London
gave it as it was originally written and as we know it now, without the Funeral Anthem or any
of the songs which had been introduced.

The text of the oratorio is supposed to have been written by Handel himself, though the words
are taken literally from the Bible. Schoelcher says:

  "The manuscript does not contain any of the names of the personages.
  Nevertheless, the handbook, which includes the extracts from Solomon
  for the first parts, has in this part the names of personages (High
  Priest, Joseph, Israelite woman, Israelite man), as if the composer
  wished to throw it into a dramatic form. The words in their Biblical
  simplicity form a poem eminently dramatic."

The first part opens with the wail of the Israelites over the burdens imposed upon them by
their Egyptian taskmasters, and then in rapid succession follow the plagues,--the water of
the Nile turned to blood, the reptiles swarming even into the king's chambers, the pestilence
scourging man and beast, the insect-cloud heralding the locusts, the pelting hail and the fire
running along the ground, the thick darkness, and the smiting of the first-born. Then come
the passage of the Red Sea and the escape from bondage, closing the first part.

"Israel in Egypt" is essentially a choral oratorio. It comprises no less than twenty-eight
massive double choruses, linked together by a few bars of recitative, with five arias and three
duets interspersed among them. Unlike Handel's other oratorios, there is no overture or even
prelude to the work. Six bars of recitative for tenor ("Now there arose a new King over Egypt
which knew not Joseph") suffice to introduce it, and lead directly to the first double chorus
("And the Children of Israel sighed"), the theme of which is first given out by the altos of
one choir with impressive pathos. The chorus works up to a climax of great force on the phrase,
"And their Cry came up unto God," the two choruses developing with consummate power the two
principal subjects,--first, the cry for relief, and second, the burden of oppression; and closing
with the phrase above mentioned, upon which they unite in simple but majestic harmony. Then
follow eight more bars of recitative for tenor, and the long series of descriptive choruses
begins, in which Handel employs the imitative power of music in the boldest manner. The first
is the plague of the water turned to blood, "They loathed to drink of the River,"--a single
chorus in fugue form, based upon a theme which is closely suggestive of the sickening sensations
of the Egyptians, and increases in loathsomeness to the close, as the theme is variously treated.
The next number is an aria for mezzo soprano voice ("Their Land brought forth Frogs"), the
air itself serious and dignified, but the accompaniment imitative throughout of the hopping
of these lively animals. It is followed by the plague of insects, whose afflictions are described
by the double chorus. The tenors and basses in powerful unison declare, "He spake the Word,"
and the reply comes at once from the sopranos and altos, "And there came all Manner of Flies,"
set to a shrill, buzzing, whirring accompaniment, which increases in volume and energy as the
locusts appear, but bound together solidly with the phrase of the tenors and basses frequently
repeated, and presenting a sonorous background to this fancy of the composer in insect imitation.
From this remarkable chorus we pass to another still more remarkable, the familiar Hailstone
Chorus ("He gave them Hailstones for Rain"), which, like the former, is closely imitative.
Before the two choirs begin, the orchestra prepares the way for the on-coming storm. Drop by
drop, spattering, dashing, and at last crashing, comes the storm, the gathering gloom rent
with the lightning, the "fire that ran along upon the ground," and the music fairly quivering
and crackling with the wrath of the elements. But the storm passes, the gloom deepens, and
we are lost in that vague, uncertain combination of tones where voices and instruments seem
to be groping about, comprised in the marvellously expressive chorus, "He sent a Thick Darkness
over all the Land." From the oppression of this choral gloom we emerge, only to encounter a
chorus of savage, unrelenting retribution ("He smote all the First-born of Egypt"). Chorley
admirably describes the motive of this great fugue:--

  "It is fiercely Jewish. There is a touch of Judith, of Jael, of Deborah
  in it,--no quarter, no delay, no mercy for the enemies of the Most
  High; 'He smote.' And when for variety's sake the scimitar-phrase is
  transferred from orchestra to voices, it is admirable to see how the
  same character of the falchion--of hip-and-thigh warfare, of victory
  predominant--is sustained in the music till the last bar. If we have
  from Handel a scorn-chorus in the 'Messiah,' and here a disgust-chorus,
  referred to a little while since,[3] this is the execution, or revenge
  chorus,--the chorus of the unflinching, inflexible, commissioned Angels
  of the Sword."

After their savage mission is accomplished, we come to a chorus in pastoral style ("But as
for His People, He led them forth like Sheep"), slow, tender, serene, and lovely in its movement,
and grateful to the ear both in its quiet opening and animated, happy close, after the terrors
which have preceded it. The following chorus ("Egypt was glad"), usually omitted in performance,
is a fugue, both strange and intricate, which it is claimed Handel appropriated from an Italian
canzonet by Kerl. The next two numbers are really one. The two choruses intone the words, "He
rebuked the Red Sea," in a majestic manner, accompanied by a few massive chords, and then pass
to the glorious march of the Israelites, "He led them through the Deep,"--a very elaborate
and complicated number, but strong, forcible, and harmonious throughout, and held together
by the stately opening theme with which the basses ascend. It is succeeded by another graphic
chorus ("But the Waters overwhelmed their Enemies"), in which the roll and dash of the billows
closing over Pharaoh's hosts are closely imitated by the instruments, and through which in
the close is heard the victorious shout of the Israelites, "There was not one of them left."
Two more short choruses,--the first, "And Israel saw that Great Work," which by many critics
is not believed to be a pure Handel number, and its continuation, "And believed the Lord,"
written in church style, close this extraordinary chain of choral pictures. It is followed
by a duet for two sopranos ("The Lord is my Strength and my Song") in the minor key,--an intricate
but melodious number, usually omitted. Once more the chorus resumes with a brief announcement,
"He is my God," followed by a fugued movement in the old church style ("And I will exalt Him").
Next follows the great duet for two basses, "The Lord is a Man of War,"--a piece of superb
declamatory effect, full of vigor and stately assertion. The triumphant announcement in its
closing measures, "His chosen Captains also are drowned in the Red Sea," is answered by a brief
chorus, "The Depths have covered them," which is followed by four choruses of triumph,--"Thy
Right Hand, O Lord," an elaborate and brilliant number; "And in the Greatness of Thine Excellency,"
a brief but powerful bit; "Thou sendest forth Thy Wrath;" and the single chorus, "And with
the Blast of Thy Nostrils," in the last two of which Handel again returns to the imitative
style with wonderful effect, especially in the declaration of the basses, "The Floods stood
upright as an Heap, and the Depths were congealed." The only tenor aria in the oratorio follows
these choruses, a bravura song, "The Enemy said, I will pursue," and this is followed by the
only soprano aria, "Thou didst blow with the Wind." Two short double choruses ("Who is like
unto Thee, O Lord," and "The Earth swallowed them") lead to the duet for contralto and tenor,
"Thou in Thy Mercy," which is in the minor, and very pathetic in character. It is followed
by the massive and extremely difficult chorus, "The People shall hear and be afraid." Once
more, after this majestic display, comes the solo voice, this time the contralto, in a simple,
lovely song, "Thou shalt bring them in." A short double chorus ("The Lord shall reign for ever
and ever"), a few bars of recitative referring to the escape of Israel, the choral outburst
once more repeated, and then the solo voice declaring, "Miriam the prophetess took a timbrel
in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances; and Miriam
answered them," lead to the final song of triumph,--that grand, jubilant, overpowering expression
of victory which, beginning with the exultant strain of Miriam, "Sing ye to the Lord, for He
hath triumphed gloriously," is amplified by voice upon voice in the great eight-part choir,
and by instrument upon instrument, until it becomes a tempest of harmony, interwoven with the
triumph of Miriam's cry and the exultation of the great host over the enemy's discomfiture,
and closing with the combined power of voices and instruments in harmonious accord as they
once more repeat Miriam's words, "The Horse and his Rider hath He thrown into the Sea."

[3] The second chorus, "The Plague of the Water turned to Blood," and the
  loathing of the Egyptians.

                                  Saul.

The oratorio of "Saul" was written by Handel in 1738. He began it, says Schoelcher, on the
3d of July, and finished it on the 27th of September; thus occupying eighty-six days. This,
however, is evidently an error, as Rockstro says: "The score, written in a thick quarto volume,
on paper quite different from that used for the operas, is dated at the beginning of the first
chorus, July 23, 1738." The next date is August 28, at the end of the second part, and the
last, at the end of the work, September 27,--which would give two months and four days as the
time in which it was written. But even this period, short as it is, seems brief when compared
with that devoted to the composition of "Israel in Egypt," which Handel began four days after
"Saul" was completed, and finished in twenty-seven days.

It has already been said, in the analysis of the last named-work, that in January, 1739, Handel
took the King's Theatre in the Haymarket, his purpose being to give oratorios twice a week.
"Saul" was the first of the series; and in this connection the following advertisement, which
Schoelcher reprints from the London "Daily Post" of Jan. 3, 1739, will be of interest:--

  "We hear that on Tuesday se'en night the King's Theatre will be opened
  with a new oratorio composed by Mr. Handel, called 'Saul.' The pit and
  boxes will be put together, the tickets delivered on Monday the 15th
  and Tuesday 16th (the day of performance), at half a guinea each.
  Gallery 5s. The gallery will be opened at 4; the pit and boxes at 5.
  To begin at 6."

The first performance took place as announced, and the second on the 23d, "with several new
concertos on the organ,"--which instrument also plays a conspicuous part in the oratorio itself,
not only in amplifying the accompaniment, but also in solo work. In 1740 it was performed by
the Academy of Ancient Music in London, and in 1742 in Dublin. Selections were also given from
it in the great Handel Commemoration at Westminster Abbey in 1784, and in 1840 it was revived
by the Sacred Harmonic Society of London, since which time it has occupied an important place
in the oratorio repertory.

The story closely follows the Biblical narrative of the relations between David and Saul. The
words have been attributed both to Jennens and Marell; but the balance of evidence favors the
former,--a poet who lived at Gopsall. The overture, marked "Symfonie" in the original manuscript,
is the longest of all the Handel introductions. It is in four movements, the first an allegro,
the second a largo (in which the organ is used as a solo instrument), the third an allegro,
and the fourth a minuetto. It is an exceedingly graceful and delicate prelude, and makes a
fitting introduction to the dramatic story which follows. The characters introduced are Saul,
king of Israel; Jonathan, his son; Abner, captain of the host; David; the apparition of Samuel;
Doeg, a messenger; an Amalekite; Abiathar, Merab, and Michal, daughters of Saul; the Witch
of Endor; and the Israelites. The very dramatic character of the narrative admirably adapts
it to its division into acts and scenes.

The first act is triumphant in its tone and expressive of the exultation of the Israelites
at their victory over the Philistines. The second gives a story of the passions,--Saul's jealousy
of David, the love of Michal, and the ardent friendship between David and Jonathan. The last
act is sombre in its character, opening with the weird incantations of the Witch, and closing
with David's grief over Saul and Jonathan.

The first scene opens in the Israelitish camp by the valley of Elah, where the people join
in an Epinicion, or Song of Triumph, over Goliah and the Philistines. It is made up of a chorus
("How excellent Thy Name, O Lord"), which is a stirring tribute of praise; an aria ("An Infant
raised by Thy Command"), describing the meeting of David and Goliah; a trio, in which the Giant
is pictured as the "monster atheist," striding along to the vigorous and expressive music;
and three closing choruses ("The Youth inspired by Thee," "How excellent Thy Name," and a jubilant
"Hallelujah"), ending in plain but massive harmony.

The second scene is in Saul's tent. Two bars of recitative prelude an aria by Michal, Saul's
daughter, who reveals her love for David ("O godlike Youth!"). Abner presents David to Saul,
and a dialogue ensues between them, in which the conqueror announces his origin and Saul pleads
with him to remain, offering the hand of his daughter Merab as an inducement. David (whose
part is sung by a contralto) replies in a beautiful aria, in which he attributes his success
to the help of the Lord alone. In the next four numbers the friendship of Jonathan and David
is cemented, which is followed by a three-verse hymn ("While yet thy Tide of Blood runs high"),
of a very stately character, sung by the High Priest. In a few bars of recitative Saul betroths
his daughter Merab to David; but the girl replies in a very powerful aria ("My Soul rejects
the Thought with Scorn"), in which she declares her intention of frustrating the scheme to
unite a plebeian with the royal line. It is followed by a plaintive but vigorous aria ("See
with what a scornful Air"), sung by Michal, who again gives expression to her love for David.

The next scene is entitled "Before an Israelitish City," and is prefaced with a short symphony
of a jubilant character. A brief recitative introduces the maidens of the land singing and
dancing in praise of the victor, leading up to one of Handel's finest choruses, "Welcome, welcome,
Mighty King,"--a fresh, vigorous semi-chorus accompanied by the carillons, in which Saul's
jealousy is aroused by the superiority of prowess attributed to David. It is followed by a
furious aria, "With Rage I shall burst, his Praises to hear." Jonathan laments the imprudence
of the women in making comparisons, and Michal suggests to David that it is an old malady which
may be assuaged by music, and in the aria, "Fell Rage and black Despair passest," expresses
her belief that the monarch can be cured by David's "persuasive lyre."

The next scene is in the King's house. David sings an aria ("O Lord, whose Mercies numberless"),
followed by a harp solo; but it is in vain. Jonathan is in despair, and Saul, in an aria ("A
Serpent in my Bosom warmed"), gives vent to his fury and hurls his javelin at David. The latter
escapes; and in furious recitative Saul charges his son to destroy him. The next number is
an aria for Merab ("Capricious Man, in Humor lost"), lamenting Saul's temper; and Jonathan
follows with a very dramatic recitative and aria, in which he refuses to obey his father's
behest. The High Priest appeals to Heaven ("O Lord, whose Providence") to protect David, and
the first part closes with a powerful chorus, "Preserve him for the Glory of Thy Name."

The second act is laid in the palace, and opens with a powerfully descriptive chorus ("Envy,
Eldest-born of Hell!"). In a noble song ("But sooner Jordan's Stream, I swear") Jonathan assures
David he will never injure him. In a colloquy between them, David is informed that Saul has
bestowed the hand of the haughty Merab on Adriel, and Jonathan pleads the cause of the lovely
Michal. Saul approaches, and David retires. Saul inquires of Jonathan whether he has obeyed
his commands, and in a simple, sweet, and flowing melody ("Sin not, O King, against the Youth")
he seems to overcome the wrath of the monarch, who dissembles and welcomes David, bidding him
to repel the insults of the Philistines, and offering him his daughter Michal as a proof of
his sincerity.

In the second scene Michal declares her love for David, and they join in a rapturous duet ("O
fairest of ten thousand fair"), which is followed by a chorus in simple harmony ("Is there
a Man who all his Ways"). A long symphony follows, preparing the way for the attempt on David's
life. After an agitated duet with Michal ("At Persecution I can laugh"), David makes his escape
just as Doeg, the messenger, enters with instructions to bring David to the King's chamber.
He is shown the image in David's bed, which he says will only enrage the King still more. Michal
sings an exultant aria, "No, let the Guilty tremble," and even Merab, won over by David's qualities,
pleads for him in a beautiful aria, "Author of peace." Another symphony intervenes, preluding
the celebration of the feast of the new moon in the palace, to which David has been invited.
Jonathan again interposes with an effort to save David's life, whereupon Saul, in a fresh outburst
of indignation, hurls his javelin at his son, and the chorus bursts out in horror, "Oh, fatal
Consequence of Rage."

The third act opens with the intensely dramatic scene with the Witch of Endor, the interview
being preluded by the powerful recitative, "Wretch that I am!" The second scene is laid in
the Witch's abode, where the incantation is practised that brings up the Apparition of Samuel.
The whole scene is very dramatic, and the instrumentation powerful, although the effect, vigorous
as it is, is made simply by oboes, bassoons, and strings, instead of by the brass instruments
which other composers employ so vigorously in similar scenes. This scene closes with an elegy
foreboding the coming tragedy.

The third scene opens with the interview between David and the Amalekite who brings the tidings
of the death of Saul and Jonathan. It is followed by that magnificent dirge, the "Dead March,"
whose simple yet solemn and majestic strains are familiar to every one. The trumpets and trombones
with their sonorous pomp and the wailing oboes and clarinets make an instrumental pageant which
is the very apotheosis of grief. The effect of the march is all the more remarkable when it
is considered that, in contradistinction to all other dirges, it is written in the major key.
The chorus, "Mourn, Israel, mourn thy Beauty lost," and the three arias of lament sung by David,
which follow, are all characterized by feelings of the deepest gloom. A short chorus ("Eagles
were not so swift as they") follows, and then David gives voice to his lament over Jonathan
in an aria of exquisite tenderness ("In sweetest Harmony they lived"), at the close of which
he joins with the chorus in an obligato of sorrowful grandeur ("O fatal Day, how low the Mighty
lie!"). In an exultant strain Abner bids the "Men of Judah weep no more," and the animated
martial chorus, "Gird on thy Sword, thou Man of Might," closes this great dramatic oratorio.

                                 Samson.

The oratorio of "Samson" was written in 1741, and begun immediately after the completion of
"The Messiah," which was finished September 14 of that year. The last chorus was dated October
29; but in the following year Handel added to it "Let the bright Seraphim" and the chorus,
"Let their celestial Concerts." The text was compiled by Newburgh Hamilton from Milton's "Samson
Agonistes," "Hymn on the Nativity," and "Lines on a Solemn Musick." The oratorio was first
sung at Covent Garden, Feb. 18, 1743, the principal parts being assigned as follows: Samson,
Mr. Beard;[4] Manoah, Mr. Savage; Micah, Mrs. Cibber; Delilah, Mrs. Clive. The aria, "Let the
bright Seraphim," was sung by Signora Avolio, for whom it was written, and the trumpet obligato
was played by Valentine Snow, a virtuoso of that period. The performance of "Samson" was thus
announced in the London "Daily Advertiser" of Feb. 17, 1743:--

  "By subscription. At the Theatre Royal in Covent Garden, to-morrow, the
  18th inst., will be performed a new oratorio, called Sampson. Tickets
  will be delivered to subscribers (on paying their subscription money)
  at Mr. Handel's house in Brooke Street, Hanover Square. Attendance will
  be given from nine o'clock in the morning till three in the afternoon.
  Pit and boxes to be put together, and no person to be admitted without
  tickets, which will be delivered that day at the office in Covent
  Garden Theatre at half a guinea each; first gallery 5s.; upper
  gallery, 3s. 6d."

The representation was greeted with extraordinary enthusiasm, and "Samson" soon became so popular
that many had to be turned away; notwithstanding which, the ill-natured Horace Walpole could
write, in a letter dated Feb. 24, 1743:--

  "Handel has set up an oratorio against the opera, and succeeds.

The text, as we have said, was adapted from Milton by Hamilton, who says in his preface to
the handbook, or libretto:--

  "That poem indeed was never divided by Milton into acts or scenes, nor
  designed for the stage, but given only as the plan of a tragedy with
  choruses, after the manner of the ancients. But as Mr. Handel had so
  happily introduced here oratorios, a musical drama, whose subject must
  be scriptural, and in which the solemnity of church music is agreeably
  united with the most pleasing airs of the stage, it would have been an
  irretrievable loss to have neglected the opportunity of that great
  master's doing justice to this work; he having already added new life
  and spirit to some of the finest things in the English language,
  particularly that inimitable ode[5] of Dryden's which no age nor nation
  ever excelled."

The characters introduced are Samson; Micah, his friend; Manoah, his father; Delilah, his wife;
Harapha, a giant of Gath; Israelitish woman; priests of Dagon; virgins attendant upon Delilah;
Israelites, friends of Samson; Israelitish virgins; and Philistines. After a brilliant overture,
closing, like that to "Saul," with a minuet movement, the scene opens before the prison in
Gaza, with Samson blind and in chains. His opening recitative, setting forth his release from
toil on account of the feast to Dagon, introduces a brilliant and effective chorus by the priests
with trumpets ("Awake the Trumpet's lofty Sound"), after which a Philistine woman in a bright,
playful melody invites the men of Gaza to bring "The merry Pipe and pleasing String;" whereupon
the trumpet chorus is repeated. After the tenor aria ("Loud is the Thunder's awful Voice"),
the chorus recurs again, showing Handel's evident partiality for it. The Philistine Woman has
another solo ("Then free from Sorrow"), whereupon in a pathetic song ("Torments, alas!") Samson
bewails his piteous condition. His friend Micah appears, and in the aria, "O Mirror of our
fickle State," condoles with him. In answer to his question, "Which shall we first bewail,
thy Bondage, or lost Sight?" Samson replies in a short, but exquisitely tender aria, "Total
Eclipse: no Sun, no Moon, all dark amidst the Blaze of Noon,"--a song which brought tears to
the eyes of the blind Handel himself when he listened to it long afterwards. The next chorus
("O first-created Beam") is of more than ordinary interest, as it treats the same subject which
Haydn afterwards used in "The Creation." It begins in a soft and quiet manner, in ordinary
time, develops into a strong allegro on the words, "Let there be Light," and closes with a
spirited fugue on the words, "To Thy dark Servant Life by Light afford." A dialogue follows
between Manoah and Micah, leading up to an intricate bravura aria for bass ("Thy glorious Deeds
inspired my Tongue"), closing with an exquisite slow movement in broad contrast to its first
part. Though comforted by his friends, Samson breaks out in furious denunciation of his enemies
in the powerfully dramatic aria, "Why does the God of Israel sleep?" It is followed up in the
same spirit by the chorus, "Then shall they know,"--a fugue on two vigorous subjects, the first
given out by the altos, and the second by the tenors. Samson's wrath subsides in the recitative,
"My genial Spirits droop," and the first act closes with the beautifully constructed chorus,
"Then round about the starry Throne," in which his friends console him with the joys he will
find in another life.

The second act, after a brief recitative, opens with an aria by Manoah
("Just are the Ways of God to Man"), in which he conjures Samson to
repose his trust in God. It is followed by the beautiful prayer of Micah
("Return, return, O God of Hosts"), emphasized by the chorus to which it
leads ("To Dust his Glory they would tread"), with which the prayer is
interwoven in obligato form. From this point, as Delilah appears, the
music is full of bright color, and loses it sombre tone. In a short
recitative, she excuses her misdeed, and then breaks out in an aria of
sensuous sweetness, "With plaintive Notes and am'rous Moan, thus coos the
Turtle left alone." Its bewitching grace, however, makes little
impression upon Samson, who replies with the aria, "Your Charms to Ruin
led the Way." In another enticing melody, "My Faith and Truth, O Samson,
prove," she seeks to induce his return to her house, and a chorus of
Virgins add their entreaties. A last effort is made in the tasteful and
elegant aria, "To fleeting Pleasures make your Court;" but when that also
fails, Delilah reveals her true self. Samson rebukes her "warbling
charms," her "trains and wiles," and counts "this prison-house the house
of liberty to thine;" whereupon a highly characteristic duet ensues
("Traitor to Love").
      Thus shall his life be ne'er dismayed,
      By female usurpation swayed."

The giant Harapha now appears, and mocks Samson with the taunt that had he met him before he
was blind, he would have left him dead on the field of death, "where thou wrought'st wonders
with an ass' jaw." His first number ("Honor and Arms scorn such a Foe") is one of the most
spirited and dashing bass solos ever written. Samson replies with the majestic aria, "My Strength
is from the living God." The two solos reach their climax in the energetic duet between the
giants, "Go, baffled Coward, go." Micah then suggests to Harapha that he shall call upon Dagon
to dissolve "those magic spells that gave our hero strength," as a test of his power. The recitative
is followed by an impressive six-part chorus ("Hear, Jacob's God") in the true church style.
Its smooth, quiet flow of harmony is refreshing as compared with the tumult of the giants'
music which precedes, and the sensuousness of the chorus ("To Song and Dance we give the Day")
which follows it. The act closes with the massive double chorus ("Fixed in His everlasting
Seat") in which the Israelites and Philistines celebrate the attributes of their respective
deities and invoke their protection, and in which also the composer brings out with overwhelming
effect the majesty and grandeur of God as compared with the nothingness of Dagon.

The third act opens with a dialogue in which Harapha brings the message to Samson that he must
repair to the feast of Dagon to delight the Philistines with some of his feats of strength.
Upon Samson's refusal, Harapha sings the threatening aria, "Presuming Slave!" The Israelites
invoke the protection of God in the spirited chorus, "With Thunder armed," closing with a prayer
which changes to wild and supplicating entreaty. Samson at last yields in a tender, pathetic
aria ("Thus when the Sun"), which seems to anticipate his fate. In a song of solemn parting
("The Holy One of Israel be thy Guide"), accompanied by the chorus ("To Fame immortal go"),
his friends bid him farewell. The festivities begin, and in an exultant chorus ("Great Dagon
has subdued our Foe") the Philistines are heard exulting over Samson's discomfiture. Micah
and Manoah, hearing the sounds, are filled with anxiety, and the latter expresses his solicitude
in the tender aria, "How willing my paternal Love." But the scene suddenly changes. In a short,
crashing presto the coming destruction is anticipated. The trembling Israelites express their
alarm in the chorus, "Hear us, our God," and appeal to Heaven for protection. A Messenger rushes
upon the scene and announces that Samson is dead and has involved the destruction of his enemies
in the general calamity. Micah gives expression to his grief in the touching aria, "Ye Sons
of Israel, now lament," followed by the Israelites in a sorrowful wail, "Weep, Israel, weep."
A funeral march, in the major key, intervenes, full of tender expression of sorrow,--for which,
after the first two representations Handel substituted the Dead March from "Saul;" and both
marches are now printed in the scores for general use. As at first written, the oratorio closed
with the effective chorus and solo, "Bring the Laurels;" but, as has been already said, a year
afterwards Handel made a different ending. Manoah calls upon the people to cease their lamentation,
and the funeral pageant is followed by the magnificent trumpet aria, "Let the bright Seraphim,"--a
song worthy only of the greatest artists, both with voice and instrument,--and the equally
magnificent chorus, "Let their celestial Concerts," which closes the great oratorio with triumphant
exultation.

[4] "John Beard, a quondam chorister of the Chapel Royal, under Bernard
  Gates, and afterwards the greatest English tenor singer of his day,
  achieved one of his brightest triumphs in the part of Samson. His
  history was romantic. In 1732 he married the Lady Henrietta, daughter
  of James, Earl of Waldegrave, and widow of Lord Edward Herbert, second
  son of the Marquis of Powis. In 1759 he took as his second wife
  Charlotte, daughter of John Rich, the harlequin."--Rockstro.

[5] Alexander's Feast; or, the Power of Music.

                              The Messiah.

The "Messiah" represents the ripened product of Handel's genius, and reflects the noblest aspirations
and most exalted devotion of mankind. Among all his oratorios it retains its original freshness,
vigor, and beauty in the highest degree, in that it appeals to the loftiest sentiment and to
universal religious devotion, and is based upon the most harmonious, symmetrical, and enduring
forms of the art.

It was begun on the 22d day of August, 1741. The first part was concluded August 28, the second,
September 6, the third, September 12, and the instrumentation, September 14. It is an illustration
of Handel's almost superhuman capacity for work, that at the age of fifty-six he should have
written his masterpiece in twenty-three days. The text was taken from the literal words of
Scripture, and the libretto arranged by Charles Jennens, who, singularly enough, was not satisfied
with the music which has satisfied the world. In a letter written at that time, he says:--

  "I shall show you a collection I gave Handel, called 'Messiah,' which I
  value highly. He has made a fine entertainment of it, though not near
  so good as he might and ought to have done. I have with great
  difficulty made him correct some of the grossest faults in the
  composition; but he retained his overture obstinately, in which there
  are some passages far unworthy of Handel, but much more unworthy of the
  'Messiah.'"

For two or three years prior to the appearance of the "Messiah," Handel had been harassed by
cabals set on foot by rival opera-managers in London, who, by importing Italian singers, drew
off the patronage of the nobility, and ultimately succeeded in reducing him to the condition
of an insolvent debtor. While in this wretched plight an invitation came to him from the Duke
of Devonshire, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, to visit Dublin. He eagerly accepted it, and
in the correspondence which passed between them promised to contribute a portion of whatever
might accrue from his music to charitable institutions, and also agreed to give an oratorio
"for the benefit and enlargement of poor distressed prisoners for debt in the several marshalseas
of the city of Dublin." He left London early in November, arriving in that city, after many
delays, on the 18th. On the 23d of December he began a series of six musical entertainments,
which was completed February 10. His success was so great that he was induced to begin a second
series February 17, a fortnight before the close of which appeared the following advertisement:--

  "For the Relief of the Prisoners in the several Gaols, and for the
  Support of Mercer's Hospital, in Stephen's Street, and of the
  Charitable Infirmary on the Inn's Quay, on Monday, the 12th of April,
  will be performed at the Musick Hall in Fishamble-street, Mr.
  Handel's new Grand Oratorio, called the Messiah, in which the
  Gentlemen of the Choirs of both Cathedrals will assist, with some
  Concertos on the Organ by Mr. Handel."

The first rehearsal took place on the 8th of April, in the presence of "a most Grand, Polite,
and Crowded Audience," as we are informed by "Faulkner's Journal." The same paper, referring
to the first public performance, which took place on Tuesday, April 13, 1742, says:--

  "At the desire of several persons of distinction, the above performance
  is put off to Tuesday next. The doors will be opened at eleven, and the
  performance begins at twelve. Many ladies and gentlemen who are
  well-wishers to this noble and grand charity, for which this oratorio
  was composed, request it as a favor that the ladies who honor this
  performance with their presence would be pleased to come without hoops,
  as it would greatly increase the charity by making room for more
  company."

Gentlemen were also requested to come without their swords. "In this way," it is said, "the
stewards" were able to seat seven hundred persons in the room instead of six hundred. The principal
parts in the performance were assigned to Signora Avolio, Mrs. Cibber, and Messrs. Church and
Ralph Roseingrane; and Mrs. Cibber's delivery of the aria "He was despised" is said to have
been so touching that Dr. Delany, the companion of Swift, exclaimed, as she closed: "Woman,
for this be all thy sins forgiven."

The "Messiah" was performed thirty-four times during the composer's life, but never upon a
scale commensurate with its merits until the Handel Commemoration at Westminster Abbey in 1784,
when the largest choir and band that had ever assembled before, with the renowned Madame Mara
at the head of the soloists, first gave the "Messiah" to the world in accordance with the grand
ideal of the composer. The orchestra was composed as follows: First violins, 40; second violins,
47; tenors, 26; first oboes, 13; second oboes, 13; flutes, 6; violoncellos, 21; double-basses,
15; bassoons, 26; double-bassoon, 1; trumpets, 12; trombones, 6; horns, 12; kettledrums, 3;
double-kettledrum, 1: total, 242. The choir was made up as follows: Sopranos, 60, of whom 45
were choir-boys; counter-tenors (altos), 40; tenors, 83; basses, 84: making the entire number
of singers 267. Of the performance of the band upon this occasion, Burney quaintly says:--

  "Dante in his Paradiso imagines nine circles, or choirs, of cherubs,
  seraphs, patriarchs, prophets, martyrs, saints, angels, and archangels,
  who with hand and voice are eternally praising and glorifying the
  Supreme Being, whom he places in the centre, taking the idea from Te
  Deum laudamus, where it is said: 'To Thee Cherubim and Seraphim
  continually do cry,' etc. Now, as the orchestra in Westminster Abbey
  seemed to ascend into the clouds and unite with the saints and martyrs
  represented on the painted glass in the west window, which had all the
  appearance of a continuation of the Orchestra, I could hardly refrain,
  during the performance of the Allelujah, to imagine that this
  Orchestra, so admirably constructed, filled, and employed, was a point
  or segment of one of these celestial circles. And perhaps no band of
  mortal musicians ever exhibited a more respectable appearance to the
  eye, or afforded a more ecstatic and affecting sound to the ear, than
  this."

He is equally enthusiastic over the chorus; and of Madame Mara's singing of the aria, "I know
that my Redeemer liveth," he says:--

  "Her power over the sensibility of the audience seemed equal to that of
  Mrs. Siddons. There was no eye within my view which did not 'silently a
  gentle tear let fall,' nor, though long hackneyed in music, did I find
  myself made of stronger earth than others."

The oratorio is divided into three parts. The first illustrates the longing of the world for
the Messiah, prophesies his coming, and announces his birth; the second part is devoted to
the sufferings, death, and exaltation of Christ, and develops the spread and ultimate triumph
of the Gospel; while the third is occupied with the declaration of the highest truths of doctrine,--faith
in the existence of God, the surety of immortal life, the resurrection, and the attainment
of an eternity of happiness.

The first part opens with an overture, or rather orchestral prelude, of majestic chords, leading
to a short fugue, developed with severe simplicity and preparing the way for the accompanied
recitative, "Comfort ye My People," and the aria for tenor, "Every Valley shall be exalted,"
which in turn leads to the full, strong chorus, "And the Glory of the Lord shall be revealed,"--the
three numbers in reality forming one. The prophecy is announced, only to be followed by the
human apprehension in the great aria for bass ("But who may abide the Day of His coming"),
written in the Sicilian pastoral style,--a form of which, Burney affirms, Handel was very fond.
The aria leads to the exquisitely constructed number, "And He shall purify," a fugued chorus
closing in simple harmony. Once more the prophet announces, "Behold, a Virgin shall conceive,"
followed by the alto solo, "O Thou that tellest," which preludes a chorus in the same tempo.
The next aria ("The People that walked in Darkness"), with its curious but characteristic modulations,
leads to one of the most graphic fugued choruses in the whole work ("For unto us a Child is
born"), elegantly interwoven with the violin parts, and emphasized with sublime announcements
of the names of the Messiah in full harmony and with the strongest choral power. The grand
burst of sound dies away, there is a significant pause, and then follows a short but exquisite
Pastoral Symphony for the strings, which with the four succeeding bits of recitative tells
the message of the Angels to the Shepherds on the plains of Bethlehem. Suddenly follows the
chorus of the heavenly hosts ("Glory to God"), which is remarkably expressive, and affords
sharp contrasts in the successive clear responses to the fugue. The difficult but very brilliant
aria for soprano, "Rejoice greatly," the lovely aria, "He shall feed His Flock," originally
written entire for soprano, in which Handel returns again to the pastoral style, and a short
chorus ("His Yoke is easy"), close the first part.

The second part is the most impressive portion of the work. It begins with a majestic and solemn
chorus ("Behold the Lamb of God"), which is followed by the aria for alto, "He was despised,"--one
of the most pathetic and deeply expressive songs ever written, in which the very key-note of
sorrow is struck. Two choruses--"Surely He hath borne our Griefs," rather intricate in harmony,
and "With His Stripes we are healed," a fugued chorus written a capella upon an admirable subject--lead
to the spirited and thoroughly interesting chorus, "All we like Sheep have gone astray," closing
with an adagio of great beauty ("And the Lord hath laid on Him the Iniquity of us all"). This
is followed by several short numbers,--a choral fugue ("He trusted in God"), the accompanied
recitative ("Thy Rebuke hath broken His Heart"), a short but very pathetic aria for tenor ("Behold
and see if there be any Sorrow"), and an aria for soprano ("But Thou didst not leave His Soul
in Hell"),--all of which are remarkable instances of the musical expression of sorrow and pity.
These numbers lead to a triumphal shout in the chorus and semi-choruses, "Lift up your Heads,
O ye Gates," which reach a climax of magnificent power and strongly contrasted effects. After
the chorus, "Let all the Angels of God worship Him," a fugue constructed upon two subjects,
the aria, "Thou art gone up on high," and the chorus, "The Lord gave the Word," we reach another
pastoral aria of great beauty, "How beautiful are the Feet." This is followed by a powerfully
descriptive chorus ("Their Sound is gone out into all Lands"), a massive aria for bass ("Why
do the Nations"), the chorus, "Let us break their Bonds asunder," and the aria, "Thou shalt
break them," leading directly to the great Hallelujah Chorus, which is the triumph of the work
and its real climax. It opens with exultant shouts of "Hallelujah." Then ensue three simple
phrases, the middle one in plain counterpoint, which form the groundwork for the "Hallelujah."
These phrases, seemingly growing out of each other, and reiterated with constantly increasing
power, interweaving with and sustaining the "Hallelujah" with wonderful harmonic effects, make
up a chorus that has never been  excelled, not only in  musical skill, but also in grandeur
and sublimity. After listening to its performance, one can understand Handel's words: "I did
think I did see all heaven before me, and the great God himself." This number closes the second
part. It is worthy of note in this connection that when the oratorio was first performed at
Covent Garden, London, in 1743, the whole audience, with the King at its head, arose during
the singing of the "Hallelujah" and remained standing until it was finished,--a custom which
is still observed, not only in England, but also in this country.

If the oratorio had closed at this point it would not have disturbed the unities; but Handel
carried it into a third part with undiminished interest, opening it with that sublime confession
of faith, "I know that my Redeemer liveth,"--an aria which will never be lost. It is followed
by two quartets in plain counterpoint with choral responses, "Since by Man came Death," and
"For as in Adam all die," in which the effects of contrast are very forcibly brought out. The
last important aria in the work ("The Trumpet shall sound"), for bass with trumpet obligato,
will always be admired for its beauty and stirring effect. The oratorio closes with three choruses,
all in the same key and of the same general sentiment,--"Worthy is the Lamb," a piece of smooth,
flowing harmony; "Blessing and Honor," a fugue led off by the tenors and bassos in unison,
and repeated by the sopranos and altos on the octave, closing with full harmony on the words
"for ever and ever" several times reiterated; and the final, "Amen" chorus, which is treated
in the severest style, and in which the composer evidently gave free rein to his genius, not
being hampered with the trammels of words.

Other oratorios may be compared one with another; the "Messiah" stands alone, a majestic monument
to the memory of the composer, an imperishable record of the noblest sentiments of human nature
and the highest aspirations of man.

                            Judas Maccabæus.

The oratorio of "Judas Maccabæus" was written in thirty-two days, between July 9 and Aug. 11,
1746, upon the commission of Frederic, Prince of Wales, to celebrate the return of the Duke
of Cumberland from Scotland after the decisive victory of Culloden, April 16, 1746. The words
were written by the Rev. Thomas Morell, D.D., a learned Greek scholar of that time, the plot
being taken from the narrative of the exploits of the Jewish deliverer contained in the first
book of Maccabees and in the twelfth book of Josephus' "Antiquities of the Jews." In his dedication,
Dr. Morell says:--

  "To His Royal Highness Prince William, Duke of Cumberland, this faint
  portraiture of a truly wise, valiant, and virtuous commander as the
  possessor of the like noble qualities is, with the most profound
  respect and veneration, inscribed by His Royal Highness' most obedient
  and most devoted servant the author."

To what extremes of adulation even a doctor of divinity may go, is well shown in Schoelcher's
pithy comment: "This is addressed to a man who pitilessly murdered as many prisoners after
the battle as his courage had slain enemies during the combat." It is but just to the composer,
however, to say that the great success of this oratorio had little to do with the political
causes which led to its composition. It was first performed at Covent Garden, April 1, 1747,
and was repeated six times that year. Handel himself conducted it thirty-eight times with ever
growing popularity, to which the Jews contributed greatly, as it glorified an episode in their
national history.

The characters represented are Judas Maccabæus; Simon, his brother; an Israelitish Messenger;
and Israelitish Men and Women. The story may be gathered from the following summary of the
plot as prepared for the Birmingham Festival of 1861:--

  Part I.--Lamentations for the death of Mattathias (the father of Judas
  Maccabæus and Simon), by whom the Jewish people had been roused to
  resist the cruelties and oppressions of Antiochus Epiphanes, the Syrian
  king, in his attempt to suppress their religion and liberties.--The
  divine favor invoked.--Judas recognized as leader.--Appeal to the
  patriotism of the people, and their response.--The value of
  liberty.--Preparations for war.--Pious trust in God, and heroic resolve
  to conquer or die.

  Part II.--Celebration of the victories gained over the armies of
  Apollonius, the governor of Samaria and Seron, the Deputy Governor of
  Coelesyria, and the valor of Judas.--Renewal of war by a division of
  the Syrian array from Egypt, under Gorgias, and the despondency it
  occasions among the Israelites.--Judas again arouses the failing
  courage of the people, and they set out to meet the enemy.--Those who
  remain behind utter their detestation of the heathen idolatries, by
  which the sanctuary at Jerusalem had been desecrated, and their
  determination only to worship the God of Israel.

  Part III.--Feast of the dedication at Jerusalem, after Judas and his
  followers had recovered and restored the sanctuary, and re-established
  the liberties of his country.--Return of Judas from his final victory
  over Nicanor and his confederates.--Celebration of peace, and national
  thanksgiving.

The first scene introduces the Israelitish Men and Women lamenting the death of the father
of Judas in the sorrowful chorus, "Mourn, ye afflicted Children," which, after a duet for soprano
and tenor, is followed by still another chorus in a similar strain ("For Zion Lamentation make"),
but much more impressive, and rising to a more powerful climax. After a brief and simple soprano
solo ("Pious Orgies"), the chorus sings the prayer, "O Father, whose Almighty Power," closing
with a characteristic fugue on the words, "And grant a Leader." After a short recitative, Simon
(bass) breaks out in the heroic and sonorous aria, "Arm, arm, ye brave," which has always retained
its popularity, notwithstanding its antique bravura. It is followed by the chorus in the brief,
but stirring number, "We come in bright array." Five arias, a duet, and two choruses, nearly
all of which are now omitted in performances, being of the same general character, and mainly
apostrophes to liberty, lead to the great chorus closing the first part, "Hear us, O Lord."
It is intricate in its construction, but when properly sung resolves itself into one of the
most vigorous and impressive choruses Handel has written.

The second part opens with the Israelites celebrating the return of Judas from the victories
over Apollonius and Seron. An instrumental prelude, picturing the scenes of battle, leads directly
to the great chorus, the best in the work, "Fallen is the Foe." The triumphant declaration
is made over and over with constantly increasing energy, finally leading to a brilliant fugue
on the words, "Where warlike Judas wields his righteous Sword;" but interwoven with it are
still heard those notes of victory, "Fallen is the Foe," and the response, "So fall Thy Foes."
The Israelitish Man sings a vigorous tribute to Judas ("So rapid thy Course is"). The triumphant
strain, "Zion now her Head shall raise," is taken by two voices, closing with the soprano alone;
but before her part ends, the whole chorus takes it and joins in the pæan, "Tune your Harps,"
and the double number ends in broad, flowing harmony. In a florid number ("From mighty Kings
he took the Spoil") the Israelitish Woman once more sings Judas's praise. The two voices unite
in a welcome ("Hail Judæa, happy Land"), and finally the whole chorus join in a simple but
jubilant acclaim to the same words. The rejoicings soon change to expressions of alarm and
apprehension as a Messenger enters and announces that Gorgias has been sent by Antiochus to
attack the Israelites, and is already near at hand. They join in a chorus expressive of deep
despondency ("Oh, wretched Israel"); but Simon, in a spirited aria ("The Lord worketh Wonders"),
bids them put their trust in Heaven, and Judas rouses their courage with the martial trumpet
song, "Sound an Alarm," which, though very brief, is full of vigor and fire. After the departure
of Judas to meet the foe, Simon, the Israelitish Man, and the Israelitish Woman follow each
other in denunciation of the idolatries which have been practised by the heathen among them,
and close with the splendid chorus, "We never will bow down to the rude Stock or sculptured
Stone," in which vigorous repetitions of the opening phrase lead to a chorale in broad, impressive
harmony, with which is interwoven equally vigorous repetitions of the phrase, "We worship God
alone."

The third part opens with the impressive prayer, "Father of Heaven, from Thy eternal Throne,"
sung by the Priest. As the fire ascends from the altar, the sanctuary having been purified
of its heathen defilement, the Israelites look upon it as an omen of victory and take courage.
A Messenger enters with tidings of Judas's triumph over all their enemies. The Israelitish
Maidens and Youths go out to meet him, singing the exultant march chorus, "See the Conquering
Hero comes," which is familiar to every one by its common use on all occasions, from Handel's
time to this, where tribute has been paid to martial success and heroes have been welcomed.
It is the universal accompaniment of victory, as the Dead March in "Saul" is of the pageantry
of death. It is very simple in its construction, like many others of Handel's most effective
numbers. It is first sung as a three-part chorus, then as a duet or chorus of Virgins, again
by the full power of all the voices, and gradually dies away in the form of an instrumental
march. The chorus did not originally belong to "Judas Maccabæus," but to "Joshua," in which
oratorio it is addressed to Othniel when he returns from the capture of Debir. Handel frequently
made transfers of that kind, and this was a permanent one; for the celebrated chorus is now
unalterably identified with the work in which he placed it, and in which also the setting is
still more imposing. A very elaborate chorus ("Sing unto God"), a florid aria with trumpet
solo for Judas ("With Honor let Desert be crowned"), the chorus, "To our Great God," a pastoral
duet with exquisite accompaniment ("O Lovely Peace"), and a Hallelujah in the composer's customary
exultant style, close this very brilliant and dramatic oratorio.

                         The Dettingen Te Deum.

On the 27th of June, 1743, the British army and its allies, under the command of King George
II. and Lord Stair, won a victory at Dettingen, in Bavaria, over the French army, commanded
by the Maréchal de Noailles and the Duc de Grammont. It was a victory plucked from an expected
defeat, and aroused great enthusiasm in England. On the King's return, a day of public thanksgiving
was appointed, and Handel, who was at that time "Composer of Musick to the Chapel Royal," was
commissioned to write a Te Deum and an anthem for the occasion. The original score, a large
folio volume in the Royal Collection, is headed "Angefangen Juli 17, 1743." There is no date
at the end; but as the beginning of the Dettingen Anthem is dated July 30, it is probable that
the Te Deum was finished between the 17th and 30th. Both works were publicly rehearsed at the
Chapel Royal, Whitehall, on the 18th and 25th of the ensuing November, and formed part of the
thanksgiving services on the 27th at the Chapel Royal of St. James, in the presence of the
King and royal family.

The Dettingen Te Deum has been universally considered as one of the masterpieces among Handel's
later works. Never was a victory more enthusiastically commemorated in music. It is not a Te
Deum in the strict sense, but a grand martial panegyric, and, as Rockstro says:--

  "It needs no great stretch of the imagination to picture every drum and
  trumpet in the realm taking part in the gorgeous fanfare of its opening
  chorus, while the whole army, with the King at its head, joins the
  assembled nation in a shout of praise for the escape which was so
  unexpectedly changed into a memorable victory."

Schoelcher, in his reference to this work, notes that Handel set the hymn of St. Ambrose to
music five different times in thirty years, and always with new beauty and fresh color, though
it is somewhat remarkable that he gave each time a plaintive character to the verse, "To Thee
all angels cry aloud,"--a fact also observed by Burney, who says:--

  "There is some reason to suspect that Handel, in setting his grand Te
  Deum for the peace of Utrecht, as well as in this, confined the meaning
  of the word 'cry' to a sorrowful sense, as both the movements to the
  words 'To Thee all angels cry aloud' are not only in a minor key, but
  slow and plaintive."

Burney further says, speaking of its performance at the great Handel Commemoration in Westminster
Abbey in 1784:--

  "As it was composed for a military triumph, the fourteen trumpets, two
  pairs of common kettledrums, two pairs of double drums from the Tower,
  and a pair of double-bass drums made expressly for this occasion, were
  introduced with great propriety; indeed, these last drums, except the
  destruction, had all the effect of the most powerful artillery."

The Te Deum contains eighteen short solos and choruses, mostly of a
brilliant, martial character, the solos being divided between the alto,
baritone, and bass. After a brief instrumental prelude, the work opens
with the triumphant, jubilant chorus with trumpets and drums, "We praise
Thee, O God," written for five parts, the sopranos being divided into
firsts and seconds, containing also a short alto solo leading to a
closing fugue. The second number ("All the Earth doth worship Thee") is
also an alto solo with five-part chorus of the same general character. It
is followed by a semi-chorus in three parts ("To Thee all Angels cry
aloud"), plaintive in style, as has already been observed, and leading to
the full chorus ("To Thee Cherubim and Seraphim"), which is majestic in
its movement and rich in harmony. The fifth number is a quartet and
chorus ("The glorious Company of the Apostles praise Thee"), dominated by
the bass, with responses from the other parts, and followed by a short
full chorus ("Thine adorable, true, and only Son"). The seventh number is
a stirring bass solo with trumpets ("Thou art the King of Glory"),
leading without break into a stately choral enunciation of the same
words. The eighth is a slow and plaintive bass solo, usually sung by a
tenor ("When Thou tookest upon Thee to deliver Man"), followed by a grave
and impressive chorus ("When Thou hadst overcome the Sharpness of
Death"). The next number is a trio for alto, tenor, and bass ("Thou
sittest at the Right Hand of God"), closing with a beautiful adagio
effect.
  "Make them to be numbered with Thy Saints: in glory everlasting.
  "O Lord, save Thy people: and bless Thine heritage.
  "Govern them: and lift them up forever.
  "Day by day: we magnify Thee:
  "And we worship Thy Name! ever, world without end."

In this group of choruses the art of fugue and counterpoint is splendidly illustrated, but
never to the sacrifice of brilliant effect, which is also heightened by the trumpets in the
accompaniments. An impressive bass solo ("Vouchsafe, O Lord") intervenes, and then the trumpets
sound the stately symphony to the final chorus, "O Lord, in Thee have I trusted." It begins
with a long alto solo with delicate oboe accompaniment that makes the effect very impressive
when voices and instruments take up the phrase in a magnificent outburst of power and rich
harmony, and carry it to the close.

                                 HAYDN.

Joseph Haydn, the creator of the symphony and the stringed quartet, was born at Rohrau, a little
Austrian village on the river Leitha, March 31, 1732. His father was a wheelwright and his
mother a cook, in service with Count Harrach. Both the parents were fond of music, and both
sang, the father accompanying himself upon the harp, which he played by ear. The child displayed
a voice so beautiful that in his sixth year he was allowed to study music, and was also given
a place in the village church-choir. Reutter, the capellmeister of St. Stephen's, Vienna, having
heard him, was so impressed with the beauty of his voice that he offered him a position as
chorister. Haydn eagerly accepted it, as it gave him opportunities for study. While in the
service of St. Stephen's he had lessons on the violin and piano, as well as in composition.
When his voice broke, and his singing was of no further value, he was thrown upon the tender
mercies of the world. Fortune favored him, however. He obtained a few pupils, and gave himself
up to composition. He made the acquaintance of Metastasio, Porpora, and Gluck. His trios began
to attract attention, and he soon found himself rising into prominence. In 1759, through the
influence of a wealthy friend and amateur, he was appointed to the post of musical director
and composer in the service of Count Morzin, and about this time wrote his first symphony.
When the Count dismissed his band, Prince Paul Anton Esterhazy received him as his second capellmeister,
under Werner. When the latter died, in 1766, Haydn took his place as sole director. His patron,
meanwhile, had died, and was succeeded by his brother Nicolaus, between whom and Haydn there
was the utmost good feeling. Up to this time Haydn had written thirty symphonies, a large number
of trios, quartets, and several vocal pieces. His connection with the Prince lasted until 1790,
and was only terminated by the latter's death. But during this period of twenty-eight years
his musical activity was unceasing; and as he had an orchestra of his own, and his patron was
ardently devoted to music, the incentive to composition was never lacking. Anton succeeded
Nicolaus, and was generous enough to increase Haydn's pension; but he dismissed the entire
chapel, and the composer took up his abode in Vienna. He was hardly established before he received
a flattering proposition from Salomon, the manager, to go to England. He had already had many
pressing invitations from others, but could not accept them, owing to his engagement at Esterhazy.
Now that he was free, he decided to make the journey. On New Year's Day, 1791, he arrived in
London. Success greeted him at once. He became universally popular. Musicians and musical societies
paid him devoted attention. He gave a series of symphony concerts which aroused the greatest
enthusiasm. He was treated with distinguished courtesy by the royal family. Oxford gave him
the honorary degree of Doctor of Music. The nobility entertained him sumptuously. After a year
of continuous fêtes, he returned to Germany, where he remained two years, during a portion
of which time Beethoven was his pupil. In 1794 he made his second journey to England, where
his former successes were repeated, and fresh honors were showered upon him. In 1804 he was
notified by Prince Esterhazy that he was about to reorganize his chapel, and wished him for
its conductor again. Haydn accordingly returned to his old position, where he remained during
the rest of his life. He was already an old man, but it was during this period that his most
remarkable works were produced, among them the Austrian National Hymn ("Gott erhalte Franz
den Kaiser"), the "Seven Words," the "Creation," the "Seasons," and many of his best trios
and quartets. He died May 31, 1809, a few days after the occupation of Vienna by the French,
and among the mourners at his funeral were many French officers. Funeral services were held
in all the principal European cities. Honored and respected all over Europe, he was most deeply
loved by his own countrymen, who still affectionately speak of him as "Papa" Haydn.

                              The Creation.

Haydn was sixty-five years of age when he undertook the great work of his life. It was begun
in 1796, and finished in 1798. When urged to bring it to a conclusion more rapidly, he replied,
"I spend much time over it, because I intend it to last a long time." Shortly before his final
departure from London, Salomon, his manager, brought him a poem for music which had been compiled
by Lydley from Milton's "Paradise Lost," for use by Handel, though the latter had not availed
himself of it. Haydn took it with him to Vienna, and submitted it to the Baron van Swieten,
the Emperor's librarian, who was not only a very learned scholar, but also something of a musician
and composer. The Baron suggested that he should make an oratorio of it, and to encourage him,
not only translated the text into German, but added a number of arias, duets, and choruses,
particularly those of the descriptive kind. Several of the nobility also guaranteed the expenses
of preparation and performance. His friend Griesinger writes:--

  "Haydn wrote 'The Creation' in his sixty-fifth year with all the spirit
  that usually dwells in the breast of youth. I had the good fortune to
  be a witness of the deep emotions and joyous enthusiasm which several
  performances of it under Haydn's own direction aroused in all
  listeners. Haydn also confessed to me that it was not possible for him
  to describe the emotions with which he was filled as the performance
  met his entire expectation, and his audience listened to every note.
  'One moment I was as cold as ice, and the next I seemed on fire, and
  more than once I feared I should have a stroke.'"

On another occasion Haydn remarked: "Never was I so pious as when composing 'The Creation.'
I knelt down every day and prayed God to strengthen me for the work." That he sought this inspiration
in his old age more than once, we may infer from another remark to Griesinger: "When composition
does not get on well, I go to my chamber, and with rosary in hand say a few aves, and then
the ideas return." It was first performed in private at the Schwartzenberg Palace, April 29,
1798; and Bombet, the celebrated French critic, who was present, says in one of his letters:

  "Who can describe the applause, the delight, the enthusiasm of this
  society? I was present, and I can assure you I never witnessed such a
  scene. The flower of the literary and musical society of Vienna were
  assembled in the room, which was well adapted to the purpose, and Haydn
  himself directed the orchestra. The most profound silence, the most
  scrupulous attention, a sentiment, I might almost say, of religious
  respect, were the dispositions which prevailed when the first stroke of
  the bow was given. The general expectation was not disappointed. A long
  train of beauties, to that moment unknown, unfolded themselves before
  us; our minds, overcome with pleasure and admiration, experienced
  during two successive hours what they had rarely felt,--a happy
  existence, produced by desires, ever lively, ever renewed, and never
  disappointed."

The first public performance was given at the National Theatre, March 19, 1799, Haydn's name-day,
and the next by the Tonkünstler Societät. On the 9th of March he conducted it at the palace
of Ofen before the Archduke Palatine Joseph of Hungary. Its success was immediate, and rivalled
that of "The Messiah." It was performed all over Europe, and societies were organized for the
express purpose of producing it. In London rival performances of it were given at Covent Garden
and the King's Theatre during the year 1800.

The oratorio opens with an overture representing chaos. Its effect is at first dull and indefinite,
its utterances inarticulate, and its notes destitute of perceptible melody. It is Nature in
her chaotic state, struggling into definite form. Gradually instrument after instrument makes
an effort to extricate itself, and as the clarinets and flutes struggle out of the confusion,
the feeling of order begins to make itself apparent. The resolutions indicate harmony. At last
the wonderful discordances settle, leaving a misty effect that vividly illustrates "the Spirit
of God moving upon the face of the waters." Then, at the fiat of the Creator, "Let there be
Light," the whole orchestra and chorus burst forth in the sonorous response, "And there was
Light." A brief passage by Uriel (tenor) describes the division of light from darkness, and
the end of chaos, introducing a fugued chorus, in which the rage of Satan and his hellish spirits,
as they are precipitated into the abyss, is described with tremendous discords and strange
modulations; but before it closes, the music relates the beauties of the newly created earth
springing up "at God's command." Raphael describes the making of the firmament, the raging
of the storms, the flashing lightning and rolling thunders, the showers of rain and hail, and
the gently falling snow, to an accompaniment which is closely imitative in character. The work
of the second day forms the theme of "The Marvellous Work," for soprano obligato with chorus,--a
number characterized by great joyousness and spirit. This leads to the number, "Rolling in
foaming Billows," in which the music is employed to represent the effect of water, from the
roaring billows of the "boisterous seas," and the rivers flowing in "serpent error," to "the
limpid brook," whose murmuring ripple is set to one of the sweetest and most delicious of melodies.
This leads the way to the well-known aria, "With Verdure clad," of which Haydn himself was
very fond, and which he recast three times before he was satisfied with it. It is followed
by a fugued chorus ("Awake the Harp"), in which the Angels praise the Creator. We next pass
to the creation of the planets. The instrumental prelude is a wonderful bit of constantly developing
color, which increases "in splendor bright," until the sun appears. It is followed by the rising
of the moon, to an accompaniment as tender as its own radiance; and as the stars appear, "the
Sons of God" announce the fourth day, and the first part closes with the great chorus, "The
Heavens are telling," in which the entire force of band and singers is employed in full, broad
harmony and sonorous chords, leading to a cadence of magnificent power.

The second part opens with the aria, "On mighty Pens," describing in a majestic manner the
flight of the eagle, and then blithely passes to the gayety of the lark, the tenderness of
the cooing doves, and the plaintiveness of the nightingale, in which the singing of the birds
is imitated as closely as the resources of music will allow. A beautiful terzetto describes
with inimitable grace the gently sloping hills covered with their verdure, the leaping of the
fountain into the light, and the flights of birds, and a bass solo in sonorous manner takes
up the swimming fish, closing with "the upheaval of Leviathan from the deep," who disports
himself among the double-basses. This leads to a powerful chorus, "The Lord is great." The
next number describes the creation of various animals; and perhaps nothing that art contains
can vie with it in varied and vivid description. It begins with the lion, whose deep roar is
heard among the wind-instruments. The alertness of the "flexible tiger" is shown in rapid flights
by the strings. A presto ingeniously represents the quick movements of the stag. The horse
is accompanied by music which prances and neighs. A quiet pastoral movement, in strong contrast
with the preceding abrupt transitions, pictures the cattle seeking their food "on fields and
meadows green." A flutter of sounds describes the swarms of insects in the air, and from this
we pass to a long, undulating thread of harmony, representing "the sinuous trace" of the worm.
This masterpiece of imitative music is contained in a single recitative. A powerful and dignified
aria, sung by Raphael ("Now Heaven in fullest Glory shone"), introduces the creation of man,
which is completed in an exquisitely beautiful aria ("In Native Worth ") by Uriel, the second
part of which is full of tender beauty in its description of the creation of Eve, and closes
with a picture of the happiness of the newly created pair. A brief recitative ("And God saw
everything that He had made") leads to the chorus, "Achieved is the glorious Work,"--a fugue
of great power, superbly accompanied. It is interrupted by a trio ("On Thee each living Soul
awaits"), but soon returns with still greater power and grandeur, closing with a Gloria and
Hallelujah of magnificent proportions.

The third part opens with a symphonic introduction descriptive of the first morning of creation,
in which the flutes and horns, combined with the strings, are used with exquisite effect. In
a brief recitative ("In rosy Mantle appears") Uriel pictures the joy of Adam and Eve, and bids
them sing the praise of God with the angelic choir, which forms the theme of the succeeding
duet and chorus ("By Thee with Bliss"); to which the answering choir replies with a gentle
and distant effect, as if from the celestial heights, "Forever blessed be His Power." Again
Adam and Eve in successive solos, finally uniting, join with the choir in extolling the goodness
of God; and as they close, all take up the beautiful and majestic pæan, "Hail, bounteous Lord!
Almighty, hail!" As the angelic shout dies away, a tender, loving dialogue ensues between Adam
and Eve, leading to the beautiful duet, "Graceful Consort," which is not only the most delightful
number in the work, but in freshness, sweetness, and tenderness stands almost unsurpassed among
compositions of its kind. After a short bit of recitative by Uriel ("O happy Pair"), the chorus
enters upon the closing number ("Sing the Lord, ye Voices all"), beginning slowly and majestically,
then developing into a masterly fugue ("Jehovah's Praise forever shall endure"), and closing
with a Laudamus of matchless beauty, in which the principal voices in solo parts are set off
against the choral and orchestral masses with powerful effect.

Haydn's last appearance in public was at a performance of the "Creation," which took place
in 1808, when it was given in Italian under the direction of Salieri. Dies says of this remarkable
scene:--

  "On alighting from the Prince's carriage, he was received by
  distinguished personages of the nobility and by his scholar, Beethoven.
  The crowd was so great that the military had to keep order. He was
  carried, sitting in his arm-chair, into the hall, and was greeted upon
  his entrance with a flourish of trumpets and joyous shouts of 'Long
  live Haydn!' He occupied a seat next his Princess, the Prince being at
  court that day; and on the other side sat his favorite scholar,
  Fräulein Kurzbeck. The highest people of rank in Vienna selected seats
  in his vicinity. The French ambassador noticed that he wore the medal
  of the Paris Concert des Amateurs. 'Not only this, but all the medals
  which have been awarded in France, you ought to have received,' said
  he. Haydn thought he felt a little draught; the Princess threw her
  shawl about him, many ladies following her example, and in a few
  moments he was completely wrapped in shawls. Poems by Collin and
  Carpani, the adapter of the text, were presented to him. He could no
  longer conceal his feelings. His overburdened heart sought and found
  relief in tears. When the passage, 'And there was Light,' came, and the
  audience broke out into tumultuous applause, he made a motion of his
  hands towards heaven, and said, 'It came from thence.' He remained in
  such an agitated condition that he was obliged to take his leave at the
  close of the first part. As he went out, the audience thronged about
  him to take leave of him, and Beethoven kissed his hand and forehead
  devoutly. His departure completely overcame him. He could not address
  the audience, and could only give expression to his heartfelt gratitude
  with broken, feeble utterances and blessings. Upon every countenance
  there was deep pity, and tearful eyes followed him as he was taken to
  his carriage."

He lived but a short time longer, but long enough to witness the success of his scholar, Beethoven,
in the same year.

                              The Seasons.

"The Seasons," written two years after "The Creation," was Haydn's last oratorio. The music
was composed between April, 1798, and April, 1801. It is not an oratorio in the strict sense
of the term, as it partakes of the form and qualities, not only of the oratorio, but also of
the opera and cantata. The words were compiled by Baron van Swieten from Thomson's well-known
poem of "The Seasons," but it was a long time before he could persuade Haydn to undertake the
task of composing an oratorio on the subject. His old age and infirmities made him averse to
the work. He was greatly annoyed by the text, and still more so by its compiler, who insisted
upon changes in the music which Haydn testily declined to make. He was frequently irritated
over the many imitative passages, and it was to relieve his own feelings and vary the monotony
of the sentiment that he introduced the rollicking bacchanal chorus in the third part. He expressed
his feelings to a friend in the remark: "My head was so full of the nonsensical stuff that
it all went topsy-turvy, and I therefore called the closing fugue the 'drunken fugue.'" Notwithstanding
his many objections, when once he started, he worked hard,--so hard, indeed, that this continuous
labor induced brain-fever and intense suffering, and he never entirely rallied from its effects.
A weakness followed, which constantly increased. To one friend he remarked: "The 'Seasons'
have brought this trouble upon me. I ought not to have written it. I have overdone;" and to
another: "I have done; my head is no longer what it was. Formerly ideas came to me unsought:
I am now obliged to seek for them; and for this I feel I am not formed." It is a sad picture,
that of the old composer sitting down to work in his seventieth year, distrustful of his own
powers, with an uncongenial text before him; but no indications of age or weakness are to be
found in this music, which from its first note to the last is fresh, original, bright, and
graceful,--a treasure-house of ideas to which subsequent composers have gone time after time
when they would write of Nature or attempt to picture her moods.

The "Seasons" was first performed at the Schwartzenberg Palace, Vienna, April 24, 1801, and
was repeated on the 27th and on the 1st of May. On the 29th of May Haydn himself conducted
it in public at the Redoutensaal, for his own benefit. Though some of the critics disparaged
it, and Beethoven was not overpleased with it, it met with a great popular success, and Haydn
himself was delighted with the work that had cost him so much trouble. Bombet, the French critic,
who was present at the first performance, says of it:--

  "The best critique that has been given of the work is that which Haydn
  himself addressed to me when I went to give him an account of the
  performance of it in the Palace Schwartzenberg. The applause had been
  universal, and I hastened out to congratulate the author. Scarcely had
  I opened my lips when the honest composer stopped me: 'I am happy to
  find that my music pleases the public; but I can receive no compliment
  on this work from you. I am convinced that you feel yourself that it is
  not the "Creation;" and the reason is this: in the "Creation" the
  actors are angels; here they are peasants.'"

The work is divided into four parts,--Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter,--and the characters
introduced are Simon, a farmer; Jane, his daughter; Lucas, a young countryman and shepherd;
and a chorus of Country People and Hunters. A vivacious overture, expressing the passage from
winter to spring, and recitatives by Simon, Lucas, and Jane, who in turn express their delight
at the close of the one season and the approach of the other, lead to the opening chorus ("Come,
gentle Spring, ethereal Mildness, come"),--a fresh and animated number, which is familiar to
every one. Simon trolls out a pastoral aria ("With Joy the impatient Husbandman"), full of
the very spirit of quiet, peace, and happiness,--a quaint melody which will inevitably recall
to opera-goers the "Zitti, Zitti" from Rossini's "Barber of Seville," the essential difference
between the two pieces being that in the latter the time is greatly accelerated. This aria
is followed by a trio and chorus ("Be propitious, bounteous Heaven"), a free fugue, in which
all beseech a blessing upon the sowing of the seed. The next number is a duet for Jane and
Lucas, with chorus ("Spring her lovely Charms unfolding"), which is fairly permeated with the
delicate suggestions of opening buds and the delights of the balmy air and young verdure of
spring. As its strains die away, all join in the cheerful fugued chorus, "God of Light," which
closes the first part.

After a brief adagio prelude, the second part, "Summer," opens with a charming aria by Simon
("From out the Fold the Shepherd drives"), which gives us a delightful picture of the shepherd
driving his flock along the verdant hillside, then leaning upon his staff to watch the rising
sun. As it appears, it is welcomed by trio and chorus with the exultant shout, "Hail, O glorious
Sun!" As noon approaches, the music fairly becomes radiant. A series of recitatives and arias
follow, bringing out in a vivid and picturesque manner the oppressive, exhaustive heat and
the longing for rest and shade, leading at last to an ominous silence as the clouds begin to
gather and the sky darkens. A short recitative prepares the way. A crash of thunder is heard
upon the drums: it is the prelude to the storm-chorus ("Hark! the deep tremendous Voice"),
which has been the model for nearly all the storm-descriptions written since Haydn's time.
It is worked up to a tremendous climax of tumult and terror, of pouring rain, flashing lightning,
and pealing thunder. At last the tempest dies away, and in the trio and chorus, "Now cease
the Conflicts," night comes on, with its song of the quail,--which Beethoven subsequently utilized
in his Pastoral Symphony,--the chirp of the crickets, the croaking of the frogs, the distant
chime of the evening bells, and the invocation to sleep. Of the frog episode, Nohl says:--

  "He particularly disliked the croaking of the frogs, and realized how
  much it lowered his art. Swieten showed him an old piece of Grétry's in
  which the croak was imitated with striking effect. Haydn contended that
  it would be better if the entire croak were omitted, though he yielded
  to Swieten's importunities. He declared afterwards, however, that the
  frog passage was not his own. 'It was urged upon me,' he said, 'to
  write this French croak. In the orchestral setting it is very brief,
  and it cannot be done on the piano. I trust the critics will not treat
  me with severity for it. I am an old man, and liable to make
  mistakes.'"

After a quaintly melodious prelude the third part opens with a terzetto and chorus ("Thus Nature
ever kind rewards"), an invocation to virtue and industry, and a quaintly sentimental duet
("Ye gay and painted Fair"). The next number, an aria by Simon ("Behold along the dewy Grass"),--which
gives us a picture of the hunter and his dog pursuing a bird,--prepares the way for the great
hunting chorus ("Hark! the Mountains resound"), one of the most graphic and stirring choruses
of this description ever written. The whole scene,--the vales and forests resounding with the
music of the horns, the finding of the quarry, the flying stag outstripping the wind, the pack
at fault, but starting in again as they find the scent, the tally-ho of the hunters, the noble
animal at bay, his death, and the shouts of the crowd,--are all pictured with a freshness and
genuine out-door feeling which seem almost incredible considering Haydn's age. This remarkable
number is separated from its natural companion, the bacchanalian chorus, by a recitative extolling
the wealth of the vintage. This chorus ("Joyful the Liquor flows") is in two parts,--first
a hymn in praise of wine, sung by the tippling revellers, and second, a dance tempo, full of
life and beauty, with imitations of the bagpipe and rustic fiddles, the melody being a favorite
Austrian dance-air. With this rollicking combination, for the two movements are interwoven,
the third part closes.

A slow orchestral prelude, "expressing the thick fogs at the approach of winter," introduces
the closing part. In recitative Simon describes the on-coming of the dreary season, and Jane
reiterates the sentiment in the cavatina, "Light and Life dejected languish." In Lucas's recitative
we see the snow covering the fields, and in his following aria, "The Traveller stands perplexed,"
a graphic tone-picture of the wanderer lost in the snow is presented. At last he espies the
friendly light in the cottage. "Melodious voices greet his ears," and as he enters he beholds
the friendly circle, the old father telling over his stories of the past, the mother plying
the distaff, the girls spinning, and the young people making the night merry with jest and
sport. At last they join in a characteristic imitative chorus ("Let the Wheel move gayly").
After the spinning they gather about the fire, and Jane sings a charming love-story ("A wealthy
Lord who long had loved"), accompanied by chorus. Simon improves the occasion to moralize on
the sentiment of the seasons in the aria, "In this, O vain, misguided Man," impressing upon
us the lesson that "Nought but Truth remains;" and with a general appeal to Heaven for guidance
through life, this quaint and peaceful pastoral poem in music draws to its close. It was the
last important work of the aged Haydn, but it has all the charm and freshness of youth.

                                 LISZT.

Franz Liszt, the most eminent pianist of his time, who also obtained world-wide celebrity as
a composer and orchestral conductor, was born at Raiding, Hungary, Oct. 22, 1811. His father
was an accomplished amateur, and played the piano and violoncello with more than ordinary skill.
He was In his ninth year Liszt played for the first noblemen encouraged him to continue his
studies, and guaranteed him sufficient to defray the expenses of six years' tuition. He went
to Vienna at once and studied the piano with Czerny, besides taking lessons in composition
from Salieri and Randhartinger. It was while in that city that his first composition, a variation
on a waltz of Diabelli, appeared. In 1823 he went to Paris, hoping to secure admission to the
Conservatory; but Cherubini refused it on account of his foreign origin, though Cherubini himself
was a foreigner. Nothing daunted, young Liszt continued his studies with Reicha and Paer, and
two years afterwards brought out a one-act opera entitled "Don Sancho," which met with a very
cordial reception. The slight he had received from Cherubini aroused popular sympathy for him.
His wonderful playing attracted universal attention and gained him admission into the most
brilliant Parisian salons. He soon became known as the "wonder-child," and was a favorite with
every one, especially with the ladies. For two or three years he made artistic tours through
France, Switzerland, and England, accompanied by his father, and everywhere met with the most
brilliant success. In 1827 the father died, leaving him alone in the world; but good fortune
was on his side. During his stay in Paris he had made the friendship of Victor Hugo, George
Sand, Lamartine, and other great lights in literature and music, and their influence prepared
the way for his permanent success. Notwithstanding that he was in many senses a Bohemian and
a man of the world, he had a strong religious tendency. For a time he became deeply interested
in the doctrines of Saint-Simon; but his adherence to that system did not last long. He speedily
returned to the Roman Church, and some years afterwards went to Rome, at the suggestion of
the Pontiff took orders, and set himself about the work of reforming the church music,--a task,
however, which he soon abandoned; too many obstacles stood in his way. He expected to become
Capellmeister at the Sistine Chapel; but, as he himself said: "I was thwarted by the lack of
culture among the cardinals; and besides, most of the princes of the Church were Italian."
The Abbé was soon in Germany again, where he resided until the close of his life. From 1839
to 1847 he travelled from one city to another, arousing the most extraordinary enthusiasm;
his progress was one continued ovation. In 1849 he went to Weimar and accepted the post of
conductor at the Court Theatre. He made Weimar the musical centre of Europe. It was there that
his greatest compositions were written, that the school of the music of the future was founded,
and that Wagner's operas first gained an unprejudiced hearing; and it is from Weimar that his
distinguished pupils, like Von Bülow, Tausig, Bendel, Bronsart, Klindworth, Winterberger, Reubke,
and many others date their success. In 1859 he resigned his position, and after that time resided
at Rome, Pesth, and Weimar, working for the best interests of his beloved art, and encouraging
young musicians to reach the highest standards. Few men of this century have had such a powerful
influence upon music, or have done so much to elevate and purify it. His most important works
were the "Divina Commedia" and "Faust" symphonies, the twelve symphonic poems, the six Hungarian
rhapsodies, the "Graner Mass," the "Hungarian Coronation Mass," and the oratorios "Christus"
and "The Legend of the Holy Elizabeth." Besides these he wrote a large number of orchestral
pieces, songs, and cantatas, and a rich and varied collection of pianoforte solos, transcriptions,
and arrangements. He died July 31, 1886.

                    The Legend of the Holy Elizabeth.

The oratorio, "Legend of the Holy Elizabeth," was written in 1864, and first produced Aug.
15, 1865, upon the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Conservatory of Pesth-Ofen.
The text is by Otto Roquette, and was inspired by Moritz von Schwind's frescos at the Wartburg
representing scenes in the life of the saint. A brief allusion to her history will still further
elucidate the story which Liszt has treated so powerfully. She was the daughter of King Andreas
II. of Hungary, and was born in 1207. At the age of four she was betrothed to Ludwig, son of
the Landgrave Hermann of Thuringia, whom she married in 1220. After his death, in 1227, she
was driven from the Wartburg and forced to give up the regency by her cruel and ambitious mother-in-law.
After long wanderings and many privations she retired to Bamberg, where her uncle, the bishop,
dwelt; but shortly afterwards her rights were restored to her. She renounced them in favor
of her son, Hermann II., and died in 1231. Four years later she was canonized at Marpurg by
order of Pope Gregory IX. Her life was devoted to the relief of the poor and suffering.

The characters introduced in the oratorio are Saint Elizabeth, Landgrave Ludwig, Landgrave
Hermann, Landgravine Sophie, a Hungarian Magnate, the Seneschal, and the Emperor Frederick
II. The last three rôles are usually assigned to Ludwig, thus reducing the number of solo-singers
to four. The work is laid out in two parts, each having three scenes corresponding in subjects
with Von Schwind's six frescos. The first describes the arrival of Elizabeth at the Wartburg,
and the welcome she receives. In the second she is married, and her husband, Ludwig, has succeeded
to the throne. His devotion to knight-errantry leads him from home. During his absence a famine
breaks out, and Elizabeth in her devotion to the sufferers impoverishes herself and incurs
the wrath of her mother-in-law, the Landgravine Sophie. While carrying a basket of bread and
wine one day to the victims of the scourge, she is met by her husband, who has unexpectedly
returned. Amazed at the absence of her attendants, he questions her, and she excuses herself
with the plea that she has been gathering flowers. Doubting the truth of her statement, he
snatches the basket from her. She confesses her falsehood; but upon examining the basket it
is found to be full of roses. The Lord has performed a miracle. Overcome with remorse for doubting
her, Ludwig begs her forgiveness, and the two join in prayer that the Lord may continue His
goodness to them. The third scene opens at Schmalkald, on the borders of Thuringia, where Ludwig
has assembled his knights and nobles who are to accompany him to the Holy Land. They declare
their allegiance to Ludwig as their leader, and he calls upon them also to swear fealty to
his wife. After a sad farewell Ludwig rides away at the head of his Crusaders. The fourth scene
opens with the news of Ludwig's death. The Landgravine claims the castle as her inheritance,
compels Elizabeth to abandon the regency, and drives her out in the midst of a furious storm.
In the fifth scene we find her at a hospital which she has founded, and notwithstanding her
own troubles and sufferings still ministering to others in like affliction. This scene closes
with her death, and in the last we have the ceremonies of her canonization at Marpurg.

The first scene opens with a long orchestral introduction, working up to a powerful climax,
and based mainly upon a theme from the old church service, which is Elizabeth's motive, and
is frequently heard throughout the work. An animated prelude which follows it introduces the
opening chorus ("Welcome the Bride"). A brief solo by Landgrave Hermann ("Welcome, my little
Daughter") and another of a national character by the Hungarian Magnate attending the bride
intervene, and again the chorus break out in noisy welcome. After a dignified solo by Hermann
and a brief dialogue between Ludwig and Elizabeth, a light, graceful allegretto ensues, leading
up to a children's chorus ("Merriest Games with thee would we play"), which is delightfully
fresh and joyous in its character. At its close the chorus of welcome resumes, and the scene
ends with a ritornelle of a plaintive kind, foreboding the sorrow which is fast approaching.

The second scene, after a short prelude, opens with Ludwig's hunting-song ("From the Mists
of the Valleys"), which is written in the conventional style of songs of this class, although
it has two distinct movements in strong contrast. As he meets Elizabeth, a dialogue ensues,
including the scene of the rose miracle, leading up to a brief chorus ("The Lord has done a
Wonder"), and followed by an impressive duet in church style ("Him we worship and praise this
Day"). The scene closes with an ensemble, a duet with full choral harmony, worked up with constantly
increasing power and set to an accompaniment full of rich color and brilliant effect.

The third scene opens with the song of the Crusaders, an impetuous and brilliant chorus ("In
Palestine, the Holy Land"), the accompaniment to which is an independent march movement. The
stately rhythm is followed by a solo by the Landgrave, bidding farewell to Elizabeth and appealing
to his subjects to be loyal to her. The chorus replies in a short number, based upon the Hungarian
melody which has already been heard. Elizabeth follows with a tender but passionate appeal
to her husband ("Oh, tarry! oh, shorten not the Hour"), leading to a solo ("With Grief my Spirit
wrestles"), which is full of the pain of parting. A long dialogue follows between them, interrupted
here and there by the strains of the Crusaders, in which finally the whole chorus join with
great power in a martial but sorrowful style. As it comes to a close, the orchestra breaks
out into the Crusaders' march,--a brilliant picture of the knightly pageant, the time gradually
accelerating as well as the force, until it reaches a tremendous climax. The trio of the march
is based upon a religious melody which was sung in the time of the Crusaders; but the remainder
follows the Gregorian intonation. The chorus once more resumes its shout of jubilee, and the
brilliant scene comes to an end. So vividly colored is this music that one can well fancy the
sorrowful Elizabeth as she stands gazing at the band of knights, with Ludwig at their head,
slowly riding away, pennons fluttering in the breeze, and lances and mail glittering in the
sunlight.

In the fourth scene a slow and mournful movement, followed by an allegro ominous and agitated
in style, introduces the Landgravine Sophie, the evil genius of the Wartburg. The tidings of
the death of Ludwig have come, and with fierce declamation she orders Elizabeth away from the
castle. The latter replies in an aria ("O Day of Mourning, Day of Sorrow") marked by sorrowful
lamentation. Sophie again hurls her imprecations, and a very dramatic dialogue ensues, which
takes the trio form as the reluctant Seneschal consents to enforce the cruel order. Once more
Elizabeth tenderly appeals to her in the aria, "Thou too art a Mother." Sophie impatiently
and fiercely exclaims, "No longer tarry!" The scene comes to an end with Elizabeth's lament
as she goes out into the storm, which is vividly described in an orchestral movement, interspersed
with vocal solos. These have little bearing upon the subject-matter, however, which is mainly
described by the band with overwhelming power.

The fifth scene opens with a long declamatory solo by Elizabeth,--full of tenderness and pathos,
in which she recalls the dream of childhood,--closing with an orchestral movement of the same
general character. It is followed by the full chorus ("Here 'neath the Roof of Want"), which
after a few bars is taken by the sopranos and altos separately, closing with chorus again and
soprano solo ("Elizabeth, thou holy one"). The death-scene follows ("This is no earthly Night").
Her last words, "Unto mine End Thy Love has led me," are set to music full of pathos, and as
she expires, the instrumentation dies away in peaceful, tranquil strains. A semi-chorus, which
can also be sung by three solo voices ("The Pain is over"), closes the sad scene, the ritornelle
at the end being made still more effective by the harps, which give it a celestial character.

The last scene opens with an interlude which gathers up all the motives of the oratorio,--the
Pilgrim's Song, the Crusaders' March, the Church Song, and the Hungarian Air, and weaves them
into a rich and varied texture for full orchestra, bells, and drums, forming the funeral song
of the sainted Elizabeth,--the same effect, and produced in the same manner, which Wagner subsequently
used with such magnificent power in the dirge of Siegfried. It is followed by a solo from the
Emperor, "I see assembled round the Throne,"--a slow and dignified air, leading to the great
ensemble closing the work, and descriptive of the canonization of Elizabeth. It begins as an
antiphonal chorus ("Mid Tears and Solemn Mourning"), the female chorus answering the male and
closing in unison. Once more the Crusaders' March is heard in the orchestra as the knights
sing, "O Thou whose Life-blood streamed." The church choir sings the chorale, "Decorata novo
flore," the Hungarian and German bishops intone their benedictions, and then all join in the
powerful and broadly harmonious hymn, "Tu pro nobis Mater pia," closing with a sonorous and
majestic "Amen."

                                Christus.

"Christus, oratorio, with texts from the Holy Scriptures and the Catholic Liturgy," as Liszt
entitles his work, was finished in 1866. At the outset the composer selected the "Hymn of Praise"
and "Pater Noster" from Rüchert's "Evangelical Harmony;" and upon these and one or two other
detached numbers for a background, he built up a series of religious events connected with
the offices of the Church according to the Vulgate and its Liturgy. These events are laid out
in three divisions,--"The Christmas Oratorio," "After Epiphany," and "The Passion and Resurrection;"
the separate parts of which are as follows: (1) The Introduction. (2) Pastoral and Vision of
the Angels. (3) Stabat Mater speciosa. (4) Song of the Shepherds in the Manger. (5) The Anointing
of the three Kings. (6) Hymn of Praise. (7) Pater Noster. (8) The Establishment or Foundation
of the Christian Church. (9) The Storm on the Lake. (10) The Entry into Jerusalem. (11) Tristis
est anima mea. (12) Stabat Mater dolorosa. (13) Easter Hymn. (14) Resurrection of Christ.

The long instrumental introduction is constructed upon a theme representative of a text from
Isaiah, "Resound, ye Heavens above," many times repeated, and leading to a pastoral which prepares
the way for the angelic announcement to the shepherds. This announcement is made in the simple
collect music by a soprano solo, and replied to by a female chorus, first accompanied by string
quartet, and then by full orchestra, and leading to the full chorus, "Gloria in excelsis,"
a series of mighty shouts, closing with a stately Hallelujah and a return of the orchestra
to the pastoral movement. The next division is the old Latin hymn, "Stabat Mater speciosa,"
the Virgin at the cradle of our Lord,--a six-part chorus in church style, accompanied by the
organ, with solo variations interspersed through it, and characterized by a lofty feeling of
devotion, especially in the "Inflammatus" and the majestic final "Amen." The remaining numbers
of the first part are entirely instrumental, including the "Shepherd's Song at the Manger,"
a pastoral full of beautiful effects, and "the Three Holy Kings," a march which is majestic
in its style and broad in its rhythm, and full of characteristic color. The two numbers close
the part in a brilliant and jubilant manner.

The second part opens with the "Seligkeiten" ("Hymn of Praise"), a grand declamatory solo for
baritone, accompanied by a six-part chorus, which, like the next number, was written by Liszt
in his younger days and utilized in its present setting. The hymn is accompanied by organ throughout,
and is followed by the "Pater Noster," also with organ,--a fervent, almost passionate, offering
of prayer by the precentors and congregation, closing with a mighty "Amen." In the next number--the
founding of the Church ("Tu es Petrus"), beginning with male chorus--the orchestra resumes
its work. The voices move on in stately manner until the words, "Simon, son of Jona, lovest
thou me?" are reached, when the full chorus comes in with imposing effect. Of this number,
Nohl says in his fine analysis of "Christus:"--

  "The perishable, sinful world in all its aspects is here contrasted
  with an undoubting faith in an everlastingly constant higher ideal, to
  give it this name. That it is the spirit of the subject, not its mere
  perishable husk, is shown by the nature of the melody, which rises to
  the most powerful expression of the final victory of this spirit of
  love. Now again the full orchestra joins the double chorus; for the
  world, the whole world, is meant."

The next scene, entitled "The Wonder," is purely instrumental, and is a marvellous picture
of the storm upon the lake, which Nohl also characterizes with reference to its inner meanings:--

  "The ninth scene is a marvel. 'The storms rage in contention,'--not the
  storms of the sea, but the storm of desires to which the weak of faith
  are exposed. It is not the outward marvel or superstition that is to be
  strengthened, but the faith of human nature in itself and its higher
  power and destiny. Hence the actual inner tranquillity when, after the
  raging orchestral tumult, 'a great stillness' succeeds Christ's words,
  which is ingeniously introduced with the motive of the 'Seligkeit,'
  because such inner purity alone bestows upon mankind effective power
  over the savage forces of the world."

"The Entrance into Jerusalem," a graphic instrumental prelude, introduces a "Hosanna" for full
chorus, followed by a "Benedictus" for mezzo-soprano with chorus,--a splendidly constructed
number, which closes the second part in a style full of beauty and majesty.

The third part opens with the sorrowful scene, "Tristis est anima mea," Christ's sad words
in the walk to Gethsemane,--an unutterably pathetic solo, with an accompaniment which is a
marvel of expressive instrumentation. The next number is the old Middle-Age hymn, "Stabat Mater
dolorosa," in which Liszt has combined voices and instruments in a manner, particularly in
the "Inflammatus," almost overpowering. Solos, duets, quartets, choruses, orchestra, and organ
are all handled with consummate skill. It has been aptly characterized as having the dimensions
of the "Last Judgment" in the Sistine Chapel. After the great hymn is ended, another begins.
It is the old Easter song, "O Filii et Filiæ," written to be sung by boys with harmonium,--a
joyous, sunny chorus, dispersing the gloom of the "Stabat Mater." The last scene, "The Resurrection,"
is a powerful and massive chorus, full of mighty accords, typical of the final triumph of Christianity,
and closing with a majestic "Amen" built up on the opening motive of the original introduction.
"It is," says Nohl, "a cycle of scenes such as only the victorious mastery of the subject by
inward perception can give, and such as only the artist can draw who dominates all the conditions
apart like a king, and has reconciled his soul with the absolute truth and power of the Eternal."

                               MACFARREN.

George Alexander Macfarren, one of the most prominent of modern English composers, was born
in London, March 2, 1813. He began the study of music in 1827 under the tuition of Charles
Lucas. Two year's later he entered the Royal Academy of Music, and in 1834 became one of its
professors. The latter year dates the beginning of his career as a composer, his first work
having been a symphony in F minor. During the next thirty years his important works were as
follows: overture "Chevy Chase" (1836); "Devil's Opera," produced at the Lyceum (1838); "Emblematical
Tribute on the Queen's Marriage" and an arrangement of Purcell's "Dido and Æneas" (1840); editions
of "Belshazzar," "Judas Maccabæus," and "Jephthah," for the Handel Society (1843); opera "Don
Quixote" (1846); opera "Charles II." (1849); serenata "The Sleeper Awakened," and the cantata
"Lenora" (1851); the cantata "May Day," for the Bradford Festival (1856); the cantata "Christmas"
(1859); the opera "Robin Hood" (1860); the masque "Freya's Gift" and opera "Jessy Lea" (1863);
and the operas "She Stoops to Conquer," "The Soldier's Legacy," and "Helvellyn" (1864). About
the last year his sight, which had been impaired for many years, failed. His blindness did
not however diminish his activity. He still served as professor in the Royal Academy, and dictated
compositions,--indeed some of his best works were composed during this time of affliction.
In 1873 appeared his oratorio, "St. John the Baptist," which met with an enthusiastic reception
at the Bristol Festival of that year. In 1875 he was elected professor of music at Cambridge,
to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Sterndale Bennett, and in the same year was
also appointed principal of the Royal Academy of Music. In 1876 his oratorio "The Resurrection"
was performed at the Birmingham Festival, and in 1877 the oratorio "Joseph" at Leeds, besides
the cantata "The Lady of the Lake" at Glasgow. Grove catalogues his other compositions as follows:
a cathedral service, anthems, chants, psalm-tunes, and introits for the Holy Days and Seasons
of the English Church (1866); "Songs in a Cornfield" (1868); "Shakspeare Songs for Four Voices"
(1860-64); songs from Lane's "Arabian Nights," and Kingsley's and Tennyson's poems; overtures
to "The Merchant of Venice," "Romeo and Juliet," "Hamlet," and "Don Carlos;" symphonies, string
quartets, and a quintet; a concerto for violin and orchestra; and sonatas for pianoforte alone,
and in combination with other instruments. As lecturer, writer, and critic, Sir George Macfarren
also holds a high place, among his important works being "Rudiments of Harmony" (1860), and
six Lectures on Harmony (1867); also Analyses of Oratorios for the Sacred Harmonic Society
(1853-57), and of orchestral works for the Philharmonic Society (1869-71), besides numerous
articles in the musical dictionaries.

                          St. John the Baptist.

The oratorio "St. John the Baptist" was first produced at the Bristol Musical Festival in 1873.
The libretto was written by Dr. E. G. Monk, and is divided into two parts,--the first styled
"The Desert," and the second "Machærus," to correspond with the localities where the action
is supposed to take place. The incidents described are John's preaching to the people, the
baptism of Christ, and the events which begin with Herod's feast and close with the execution
of the Prophet. One of the best of the English critics, speaking of the libretto, says:--

  "John is thus shown in his threefold capacity, as the herald of the
  Kingdom of Heaven, as the uncompromising champion of righteousness, and
  as the witness of truth even unto death. Nothing could be more simple
  or more definite than this, and the discreetness it evinces is shown
  also by the manner in which the characters are treated. John, of
  course, is the central figure. He stands out clothed with all the noble
  attributes accredited to him in the Bible,--'stern and inflexible in
  his teaching, yet bowing before him whose message he had to
  promulgate.' A halo of grandeur surrounds the ascetic of the desert as
  he hurls anathemas upon the corruptors of Israel; or as, in the true
  spirit of the ancient prophets of his race, he rebukes Herod under the
  roof of that monarch's palace. No greater hero could a musician wish
  for as a source of inspiration, or as a means of exciting interest.
  Next to John stands the weak and voluptuous King,--a contrast as marked
  in character as in outward circumstance. The impulsive temperament of
  Herod is well brought out. One instant he resents John's boldness, and
  significantly exclaims, 'If I command to kill, they kill;' the next he
  trembles before his rebuker, and promises to amend his life. The
  rashness of the fatal vow to Salome, and the bitter but unavailing
  repentance to which it led, are also put well forward, while in matters
  of detail extreme care is taken to make the contrast of Prophet and
  King as great as circumstances permit. The part of Salome, who is the
  only other dramatic person, contains no more amplification of the Bible
  narrative than was exacted by the necessities of musical treatment. In
  structure, the libretto is partly dramatic, partly narrational, the
  dramatic form being employed in all the chief scenes; and as little use
  is made of 'Greek chorus,' the story marches without the halting
  rendered necessary by efforts to 'improve' its incidents as they
  arise."

The overture, which is very dramatic in character, is followed by a powerful fugued chorus
("Behold! I will send My Messenger"), a part of which is set to organ accompaniment. The Narrator
(contralto) recites the coming of the Prophet, in the orchestral prelude to which is a phrase
borrowed from an old church melody which Mendelssohn also used in his Reformation Symphony,
and which serves throughout the work as the motive for the Prophet, in the genuine Wagner style.
Saint John is introduced in a rugged and massive baritone solo ("Repent ye, the Kingdom of
Heaven is at hand"), accompanied by very descriptive instrumentation. A dramatic scene ensues,
composed of inquiries as to the Prophet's mission by the People, a short chorus by the latter
("What shall we do then?") which is very melodic in style, and the resumption of the dialogue
form, set to a very skilful accompaniment. This scene is followed by a characteristic aria
for the Prophet, "I indeed baptize you with Water." The story is once more taken up by the
Narrator, who describes the baptism of Christ. The words, "This is My Beloved Son," are given
to a female choir, with exquisite accompaniment by the violins and harps. A song for the Narrator
("In the Beginning was the Word") follows, and leads to the chorus, which closes the first
part, the words taken from the first verse of Psalm civ., and the melody borrowed from the
familiar old tune "Hanover," which the composer has worked up with great skill and effect.

The second part opens in Herod's palace with the rebuke of the Monarch by the Prophet. In this
scene, as well as in others, the composer draws a strong contrast in the music assigned to
the two, the one being strong and stern, the other sensuous, in style. In the duet, where Herod
confesses the error of his ways, the voices unite in a genuine religious strain. The Narrator
is once more introduced, and describes the feast given by the Monarch to the Galilee estates,
followed by a jubilant chorus of Nobles ("O King, live forever!"), set to a brilliant accompaniment,
calling for the most ample orchestral resources. The next number is a chorus for male voices
("Lo! the Daughter of Herodias cometh in, she danceth!"), set to a dance rhythm with tambourines,
the themes being bits of Oriental melodies skilfully treated. We then have the banquet-scene,
the admiration of the Nobles for Salome's beauty, Herod's oath, and Salome's joy expressed
in a showy song ("I rejoice in my youth"). Then follows the dramatic scene of Salome's request,--a
concerted number of great force in its treatment. Herod sings a mournful aria ("Alas! my Daughter,
thou hast brought us very low"). The Narrator explains how the King was compelled to keep his
word, and is followed by the Nobles in a stirring chorus ("Lo! the Wrath of the King is as
a Messenger of Death"). The scene now changes to the dungeon, where the Prophet sings his farewell
song ("A Man can receive nothing"), accompanied by orchestra and organ. The final tragedy is
told by the Narrator, and the work closes with two reflective numbers,--the beautiful unaccompanied
quartet, "Blessed are they which are persecuted," and the chorus, "What went ye out into the
Wilderness for to see?" The above-mentioned critic, who was present at its first performance,
says of the work:--

  "It is a strange thing that John the Baptist has not often attracted
  the notice of musical composers in search of a subject. No more
  remarkable personage, with one great exception, figures in Bible
  history than he whom the Master described as 'more than a prophet.' His
  striking appearance, stern asceticism, wrathful denunciation of
  'wickedness in high places,' and tragic fate,--not to speak of his
  relation to One whose shoes he professed himself unworthy to
  loose,--throw his form into bold relief, and mark him as of heroic
  proportions. Yet, save that he holds a subordinate place in a very
  limited number of works, among which is Sir Julius Benedict's 'St.
  Peter,' the great forerunner has been passed over till now. At length,
  however, in that 'fulness of time' which ever brings forth the best
  results, the Man and his Life have found a musical illustrator. There
  is now an oratorio of 'John the Baptist,'--a work worthy its theme, and
  to which the stamp of enthusiastic approval has been affixed by the
  unanimous verdict of an audience competent to judge."

                               MACKENZIE.

Alexander C. Mackenzie, one of the very few successful Scotch composers, was born at Edinburgh
in 1847. His father was a musician; and recognizing his son's talent, sent him to Germany at
the age of ten. He began his studies with Ulrich Eduard Stein at Schwartzburg-Sonderhausen,
and four years later entered the ducal orchestra as violinist. He remained there until 1862,
when he went to England to study the violin with M. Sainton. In the same year he was elected
king's scholar of the Royal Academy of Music. Three years later he returned to Edinburgh and
established himself as a piano-teacher. The main work of his life, however, has been composition,
and to this he has devoted himself with assiduity and remarkable success. Grove catalogues
among his works: "Cervantes, an overture for orchestra;" a scherzo for ditto; overture to a
comedy; a string quintet and many other pieces in MS.; pianoforte quartet in B, op. 11; Trois
Morceaux pour Piano, op. 15; two songs, op. 12; besides songs, part-songs, anthems, and pieces
for the piano. This catalogue, however, does not include his two most important works,--a Scotch
Rhapsody, introduced into this country by the Theodore Thomas orchestra, a composition of great
merit, and the oratorio, "The Rose of Sharon," which has been received with extraordinary favor
wherever it has been performed.

                           The Rose of Sharon.

"The Rose of Sharon," a dramatic oratorio founded on the Song of Solomon, the words selected
from the Scriptures and arranged by Joseph Bennett, was first brought out at the Norwich Festival,
England, Oct. 16, 1884, under the direction of the composer, and was subsequently performed
in London by the Sacred Harmonic Society. Its first performance in Scotland took place at Glasgow,
Dec. 8, 1885, under the auspices of the Glasgow Choral Union, Madame Albani, Miss Hilda Wilson,
Mr. Edward Lloyd, and Mr. Watkins Mills being the principal vocalists. One notice of this performance
says: "The enthusiastic reception of the work on this occasion was beyond all description;
the composer was recalled after each part with cheers that must have made his heart leap with
delight." At the first performance at Norwich he was showered with flowers by the chorus, while
the whole audience rose and greeted him with prolonged cheering. In speaking of the text, its
compiler says:--

  "In adopting for the purposes of this oratorio a reading of the 'Song
  of Songs' upon which Ewald and Renan substantially agree, the compiler
  of the libretto favored no controversial opinion. He simply saw in the
  ingenious commentaries of the learned Hebraists suggestions for a story
  of unconquerable love, capable of expression in the language of the
  Bible.

  "For the arrangement of incident the compiler is alone responsible. In
  some respects it departs widely from the original poem,--which opens,
  for example, in Jerusalem,--and gives only in narrative the events that
  occupy part one of the oratorio.

  "In taking a story from a canonical book of Holy Scripture, the
  compiler could not ignore its spiritual significance. He has,
  therefore, introduced a prologue suggesting the parabolic character of
  the drama, and an epilogue which points its moral."

The characters are the Rose of Sharon, designated throughout the work as the Sulamite (soprano);
a Woman (contralto); the Beloved (tenor); and Solomon (baritone); the chorus representing Officers
of the Court, Princes, Nobles, Villagers, Elders, and Soldiers. The story, briefly told, is
one of the power of love. The Beloved and Solomon are both in love with the Sulamite, and the
king tears her from the former to be the favorite among the women of the harem. Amid all the
splendors of the palace and the luxuries heaped upon her by her passionate admirer she remains
true to the Beloved, is ultimately restored to him, and returns to the vineyards of Sulam.
The work is divided as follows: Prologue; Part I. Separation; II. Temptation; III. Victory;
IV. Reunion; V. Epilogue. The motto of the oratorio is "Love is strong as death, and unconquerable
as the grave." This motto has its musical theme as well as each of the three principal characters,
and they are invariably used with great skill and effect.

  This is a great mystery; but we speak concerning Christ and his
Church."

The oratorio opens in the vineyard of Sulam as the Vine-dressers come forth to their labor.
The orchestral part begins with the melody of the Vineyard Song ("We will take the Foxes"),
and serves to introduce their chorus, a joyous pastoral ("Come, let us go forth into the Field").
As they disappear, the voice of the Beloved is heard singing a tender and passionate appeal
beneath the Sulamite's lattice ("Rise up, rise up, my Love") as he urges her to join him, "For
lo! the winter is past; the rain is over and gone." Her reply follows from within her chamber,
full of love and adoration, and closing with the Vineyard Song ("We will take the Foxes, the
little Foxes that ravage the Vines"). She descends from her chamber and joins the Beloved,
and their voices unite in a delightful duet ("Come, Beloved, into the Garden of Nuts"). Once
more the chorus of the Vine-dressers is heard, and at its close, after an intermezzo descriptive
of the joys of a spring morning, the scene changes to Lebanon. A short alto solo announces
the coming of Solomon, and the pastoral music is followed by a brilliant and stately processional
march, accompanied by chorus ("God save the King!"). Solomon beholds the Sulamite, and pours
forth his admiration in a rapturous song ("Thou art lovely, O my Friend, as Thirza"). The Princes
and Nobles also testify to their admiration of her beauty. A very dramatic scene ensues, in
which the Beloved and the Sulamite seek to escape "out of the caves of the lion and from the
haunt of the leopard." She is brought back by an elder, and again Solomon pleads his cause
in a passionate declamation ("Unto my charger in Pharaoh's stud I would compare thee, O my
friend"). She replies, "My Beloved is to me a nosegay of myrrh," and clings to her lover, who
once more seeks to escape with her; whereupon she is seized and placed in one of the king's
chariots, and the cavalcade moves off to the brilliant strains of the cortège music, accompanied
by the chorus.

The second part, "Temptation," introduces us to Solomon's palace, where the Sulamite is alone,
pining for her lover. The scene opens with the psalm, "The Lord is my Shepherd," set to a simple,
charming melody, full of the spirit of devotion, but entirely disconnected with the general
texture of the work. As the touching strain comes to an end, the Women of the court enter,
insidiously plead the cause of Solomon, tempt her with his luxuries, and seek to shame her
love for the Beloved. "Kings' daughters shall be among thine honorable women; thy clothing
shall be of wrought gold; thou shalt be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework, with
gladness and rejoicing shalt thou be brought and enter into the king's palace," sings one of
the Women; but the Sulamite remains loyal, and only answers: "My Beloved pastures his flocks
among the lilies. My Beloved is mine, and I am his." The temptation is interrupted by the procession
of the ark passing in the street below to the glad acclaim of the people ("Make a joyful Noise
unto the Lord, all ye Lands"), and a brilliant march. Successively the Maidens of Jerusalem
with timbrels, the Elders, the Shepherds and Vine-dressers, the Soldiers, the Priests bearing
the sacred vessels pass by, singing tributes of praise to the Lord; and as the Levites appear
bearing the ark, and Solomon comes in sight with all his retinue, the entire chorus triumphantly
repeat "God save the King!" The brilliant procession passes from view. The Women once more
appeal to the Sulamite; but she still loyally declares: "My Beloved pastures his flocks among
the lilies; lo! Solomon in all his glory is not arrayed like one of these."

The third part, "Victory," opens with an orchestral prelude picturing the sleep of the Sulamite,
with her women watching about her. The voice of the Beloved is heard without the chamber, "Open
to me, my Sister, my Bride." It reaches her in a dream, and in fancy she replies to him, clothes
herself, and searches for him in the streets; but when she accosts the watchmen, they are so
rude that her fright awakes her. She is still a prisoner in the palace, and the Women about
her announce the coming of Solomon. He pleads his cause in a passionate song ("Ere the Day
cool and the Shadows flee away"); and she replies with another protestation of her constancy
in the solo, "Lo! a Vineyard hath Solomon at Baal-hamon." The situation, which is very dramatic
in its treatment, is heightened by a duet and by the mocking chorus of Women; but above them
all still sings the brave Sulamite, "My Beloved is mine, and I am his."

The fourth part brings us back again to the vineyards of Sulam. It opens with a melancholy
chorus of the Vine-dressers ("O Lord, be gracious unto us"), lamenting her absence. It is followed
by a bass solo ("Thus saith the Lord") and a chorale in full broad harmony. At last the victorious
Sulamite is seen coming up from the valley leaning on the arm of the Beloved. All join in a
powerful and exultant chorus of gratitude and joy ("Sing, O Heavens, and be joyful, O Earth").
A rapturous duet ensues between the Sulamite and the Beloved, and then all join in the spirited
finale:--

      "For the flame of Love is as fire,
      Even the fire of God.
      Many waters cannot quench it,
      Neither can floods drown it.
      Yea, Love is strong as death,
      And unconquerable as the grave."

                              MENDELSSOHN.

Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy, the son of a Berlin banker, was born at Hamburg, Feb. 3, 1809,
and, unlike almost all other composers, was reared in the lap of luxury. Every advantage which
wealth could procure he enjoyed, with the result that he became highly educated in the other
arts as well as in music. His teachers in music were Zelter and Ludwig Berger, and he made
such progress that in his ninth year he appeared in public as a pianist in Berlin, and afterwards
in Paris. The first of his compositions to attract general notice were the overture to Shakspeare's
"Midsummer Night's Dream" and the little opera "The Marriage of Camacho," which were brought
out in Berlin in 1827. After several concert tours, in which he met with great success, he
resided for some time in Düsseldorf. In 1835 he went to Leipsic as director of the famous Gewandhaus
concerts,--which are still given in that city. Two years later he married Cécile Jeanrenaud,
the beautiful daughter of a minister of the Reformed Church in Frankfort, and shortly afterwards
went to Berlin as general director of church music. In 1843 he returned to his former post
in Leipsic, and also took a position in the newly established Conservatory, where he spent
the remainder of his days in company with his family, to whom he was closely attached. He has
left a large and rich collection of musical works, which are favorites the world over. His
three great oratorios are the "Hymn of Praise," catalogued as a symphony-cantata, "St. Paul,"
and "Elijah." The last is specially interesting, as it marked a new departure from the conventional
forms of oratorio, and gave the widest scope to the dramatic elements,--to such a degree, in
fact, that it might with propriety be styled a sacred opera. Besides these oratorios, his exquisite
music to the "Midsummer Night's Dream," which is familiar the world over, and his stately dramatic
music to "Antigone," he has left five symphonies, of which the "Scotch," the "Italian," and
the "Reformation" are best known; four exquisite overtures, "Ruy Blas," "Calm Sea and Prosperous
Voyage," "Hebrides," and "Melusina;" the very dramatic cantata, "The Walpurgis Night;" a long
list of beautiful songs for one or more voices; the incidental music to Racine's "Athalia;"
a very large collection of sacred music, such as psalms, hymns, anthems, and cantatas; several
beautiful trios and other specimens of chamber-music; and the lovely "Songs without Words,"
which are to be found upon almost every piano, the beauty and freshness of which time has not
impaired. Mendelssohn never wrote a grand opera, owing to his fastidiousness as to a libretto;
though he finally obtained one from Geibel, on the subject of the "Loreley," which suited him.
He had begun to write it, and had finished the finale to the first act, when death interrupted
his work, Nov. 4, 1847. Mendelssohn was a man of remarkable beauty, and his character corresponded
to his charm of person. He had a liberal education, was a man of broad culture, a clever artist,
and a very skilful writer, as is shown by his volumes of letters from Italy and Switzerland.
Possessed of these graces of mind and person, and having all the advantages that wealth could
bestow, he lacked those incentives which in other composers have brought out the deepest, highest,
and most majestic forms of musical expression. His music is a reflex of his life; grace, elegance,
culture, and finish are its characteristics.

                                St. Paul.

"St. Paul," the first of Mendelssohn's oratorios, was begun in Düsseldorf and finished in Leipsic
in the winter of 1835, the composer being then in his twenty-sixth year. He first applied to
Marx to write the text; but the invitation was declined, on the ground that the chorales were
unsuited to the period of the narrative. Mendelssohn then consulted with his friends Fürst
and Schubring, and the libretto as it now stands represents their joint compilation. Its three
principal themes are the martyrdom of Saint Stephen, the conversion of Saint Paul, and the
apostle's subsequent career. One of the clearest statements of the general character of the
work is that given by Lampadius; he says:--

  "The main thought which runs through the whole work is too high and
  broad to be linked by the tie of a personal interest to any single man.
  It is the glorification of Christianity, with its humility, its joy in
  living and dying for the Lord, in contrast with the blind
  self-righteousness of Judaism and the mere sensuous morality of the
  heathen schools. It is the contrast, or rather the struggle, of the
  last two with the former, and the victory of the light and love of the
  Gospel,--the light eternal, the love divine. This thought is made
  incarnate in the persons of Stephen, Paul, and Barnabas, and it is
  concentrated at that point which is really the central point of
  interest to the oratorio,--the conversion of Saint Paul."

