Since therefore it is certain, that the strict Observance of the Critick's Rules might take
away Beauties, but not always add any, why should our Poet be so much blamed for giving a Loose
to his Fancy? The Sublimity of Sentiments in his Pieces, and that exalted Diction which is
so peculiarly his own, and in fine, all the Charms of his Poetry, far outweigh any little Absurdity
in his Plots, which no ways disturb us in the Pleasures we reap from the above-mention'd Excellencies.
And the more I read him, the more I am convinced, that as he knew his own particular Talent
well, he study'd more to work up great and moving Circumstances to place his chief Characters
in, so as to affect our Passions strongly, he apply'd himself more to This than he did to the
Means or Methods whereby he brought his Characters into those Circumstances. How far a general
Vogue is the Test of the Merit of a Tragedy, has been often considered by eminent Writers,
and is a Subject of too complicated a Nature to discuss in these few Sheets. But I shall just
hint two or three of my own Thoughts on that Head. Nature is the Basis of all Tragick Performances,
and no Play that is unnatural, i.e. wherein the Characters act inconsistently with themselves,
and in a Manner repugnant to our natural Ideas, can please at all. But a Play may be natural,
and yet displease one Sett of People out of Two, of which all Audiences are composed. If a
Play be built upon low Subjects, but yet carried on consistently, and has no Merit but Nature,
it will please the Vulgar; by which I mean, all the unlearned and ill-educated, (as for Instance,
George Barnwell, a Piece calculated for the Many) but it must be nauseous to the Learned, and
to those of improved and exalted Understandings. So on the other Hand, a Piece which turns
upon Passions, which regard those of high Station chiefly, cannot be so pleasing to the Vulgar;
for tho' all Men are born with the same Passions, yet Education very much exalts and refines
them. Thus the Loves of Boors and Peasants may delight the Populace, but those of better Sort
must have Delicacy in that Passion to see it represented with any tolerable Patience. The same
is to be said of Jealousy and Revenge, which are indeed felt by all, but in Breasts well educated
are felt with sharper Pangs, and are combated with more Vehemence, and from more and greater
Motives; therefore such People are fitter to judge, and more likely to be taken with noble
and sublime Representations of such Incidents. I need not observe, that the Vulgar cannot judge
of the Historical Propriety of a great Character, This is obvious to every one; nor can they
judge of the Passion of Ambition, as it has Power with Princes and great Men, because not being
versed by Reading in parallel Stories, and not being in such a Situation of Life, as to feel
the Torments of such Passions, they cannot certainly tell whether such Things are represented
with proper Circumstances, and proper Consequences drawn from them. And moreover, as all Men
are by Nature more prone to some Passions than to others, This must cause Variety of Sentiments
in relation to the same Piece. Besides all this, we may be very certain that different Education,
different Degrees of Understanding, and of the Passions common to all Men, must cause a Variety
of Sentiments concerning such Representations. To prove this, let us observe how the Tastes
of Nations differ in relation to these Things; so much, that one would be tempted sometimes
to think, that they did not all partake of the same Passions; but certainly they vary in the
Degrees of them; therefore by a Parity of Reason we may justly conclude, that Difference of
Education among those of the same Nation must affect their Passions and Sentiments. The better
sort have (if one may so express it) some acquired Passions which the lower sort are ignorant
of. Thus indeed it seems at first Sight; but on a nearer View they are found to be, as I said,
the same Passions augmented or refined, and turned upon other Objects. The different Manner
in which one of Corneille's or Racine's Pieces would be received by an Audience of Turks or
Russians, and an Audience of Frenchmen, (supposing the former to understand the Language, and
the latter to be free from any national Prejudices for the Authors) is a lively and strong
Emblem of the Force of Education and Custom among Creatures, all cast in the same Mould, and
endued with the same Faculties and Passions with very little real Difference. Still farther,
we may observe, that even good Acting will recommend some bad Pieces, as bad Acting will take
away half the Merit of good Ones; and some National Subjects are pleasing (as the Albion Queens
and Earl of Essex) to the Many, tho' they very little affect the Few. When I speak of Plays,
I desire to be understood of Tragedies, in which I think the English excell; for I can mention
very few of our Comedies with any Approbation; since in the Latter, neither the Morals of the
Inhabitants of this Nation are regarded, or Nature followed. In short, not to pursue a Subject,
that would carry me great Lengths, I conclude from this, that a Piece which has no Merit in
it but Nature, will please the Vulgar; whereas exalted Sentiments, and Purity and Nobleness
of Diction, as well as Nature, are absolutely requisite to please those of a true Taste. And
it is very possible, that a Play which turns upon some great Passion, seldom felt by the Vulgar,
and wherein that Passion is treated with the greatest Delicacy and Justness; I say, it is very
possible that such a Piece may please the Few, and displease the Many. Even Laertes going to
France, and Ophelia's Madness, however trivial they may seem (and how much soever I dislike
the Method of that last mentioned) are Incidents absolutely necessary towards the concluding
of all; as will appear to any one upon due Consideration. This all holds good, notwithstanding
it is my Opinion, that several of the Scenes might have been altered by our Author for the
better; but as they all stand, it is, as I said, quite impossible to separate them, without
a visible Prejudice to the Whole. I must add, that I am much in Doubt, whether Scenes of Prose
are allowable, according to Nature and Reason, in Tragedies which are composed chiefly of Blank
Verse; the Objection to them seems to be this, that as all Verse is not really in Nature, but
yet Blank Verse is necessary in Tragedies, to ennoble the Diction, and by Custom is become
natural to us, Prose mixed with it serves only, methinks, to discover the Effects of Art, by
the Contraste between Verse and Prose. Add to all this, That it is not suitable to the Dignity
of such Performances.

In short, Vice is punished in this excellent Piece, and thereby the Moral Use of it is unquestionable.
And if Hamlet's Virtue is not rewarded as we could wish, Mr. Addison's Maxim ought to satify
us, which is this, "That no Man is so thoroughly Virtuous as to claim a Reward in Tragedy,
or to have Reason to repine at the Dispensations of Providence; and it is besides more Instructive
to the Audience, because it abates the Insolence of Human Nature, and teaches us not to judge
of Men's Merit by their Successes. And he proceeds farther, and says, that though a virtuous
Man may prove unfortunate, yet a vicious Man cannot be happy in a well wrought Tragedy." This
last Rule is well observed here.

Another Reason why we ought to bear with more Patience the Sufferings of a virtuous Character,
is the Reflection on the future Rewards prepared for such, which is more suitable to the Moral
Maxims established in a Christian Country. Besides, had it pleased our Author to have spared
Hamlet's Life, we had been deprived of that pleasing Sensation which always (as I have else
where observed) accompanies a Consciousness that we are moved as we ought to be; which we most
assuredly are, when we feel Compassion rise in us for the young Prince's Death in the last
Scene. I shall just touch upon one Thing more, and then I shall end these Reflections.

I am very sensible that our Nation has long been censur'd for delighting in bloody Scenes on
the Stage, and our Poets have been found fault with for complying with this vicious Taste.
I cannot but own, that there is a great deal of Justice in these Complaints; and must needs
be of Opinion, that such Sights should never be exhibited but in order, visibly, to conduce
to the Beauty of the Piece. This is sometimes so much the Case, that Action is often absolutely
necessary. And to come more particularly to the Subject now in hand, I desire any unprejudiced
Man, of any Nation whatever, (if such can be found) who understands our Language, to consider
whether the Appearance of the Ghost, and the Deaths of the several principal Personages, (with
whatever else may offend the Delicacy I mention) could possibly have that great, that noble
Effect, by being told to the Audience, as they most undoubtedly have, by being brought on the
Stage. If this Matter be well examined with all possible Candour, I am well perswaded that
it would be found in the End, that this Piece would, by the Method I speak of, loose half its
Beauty.

