Is a well-arranged digest of the history of the past year, in a more concise and compact form
than such matters are chronicled in that woolly work--the Annual Register. The Parliamentary
Summary is brief but satisfactory, and the Occurrences are copious enough for the most gossipping
reader. The volume has been produced in truly good style, is, in all respects, cheap, and deserves
encouragement.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE HOUSE OF RUSSEL.

"The Russel family (say Britton and Brayley,) may date the era of their greatness to a violent
storm, which happened about the year 1500, on the coast of Dorset; a county which appears to
have been the birthplace of their ancestors, one of whom was Constable of Corfe Castle, in
the year 1221. Philip, Archduke of Austria, son of the Emperor Maximilian, being on a voyage
to Spain, was obliged by the fury of a sudden tempest, to take refuge in the harbour of Weymouth.
He was received on shore, and accommodated by Sir Thomas Trenchard, who invited his relation,
Mr. John Russel, to wait upon the Archduke. Philip was so much pleased with the polite manners
and cultivated talents of Mr. Russel, who was conversant with both the French and German languages,
that on arriving at court, he recommended him to the notice of Henry VII., who immediately
sent for him to his palace, where he remained in great favour till the king's death. In the
estimation of Henry VIII. he rose still higher; by that monarch he was made Lord Warden of
the Stannaries, Lord Admiral of England and Ireland, Knight of the Garter, and Lord Privy Seal,
and on the 9th of March, 1538, created Baron Russel, of Cheneys, in the county of Bucks, which
estate he afterwards acquired by marriage. At the Coronation of Edward VI. he officiated as
Lord High Steward, and two years afterwards, in the year 1549, was created Earl of Bedford.
He died in 1554, and was buried at Cheneys, where many of his descendants have also been interred,"
&c. &c.

"Henry VII. (says Pennant,) often resided at Baynard Castle, and from hence made several of
his solemn processions. Here, in 1505, he lodged Philip of Austria,[7] the matrimonial King
of Castille, tempest-driven into his dominions, and showed him the pomp and glory of his capital."

P.T.W.

    [7] There is an old (full-length) engraving of this personage, and
    I am in the possession of one.

       *       *       *       *       *

COVENTRY CHARITY.

(FOR THE MIRROR.)

Bablake Hospital, in the city of Coventry, was originally founded in 1506, by Thomas Bond,
Mayor. Part of this hospital furnishes a residence for a number of boys, who are educated and
clothed in blue, through the justice and benevolence of Thomas Wheatley, Mayor, in 1556, whose
servant, sent to Spain by him to purchase some barrels of steel gads, brought home through
an unaccountable mistake, a number of casks filled with ingots of silver and cochineal, which
were offered for sale in an open fair, as the articles alluded to, and bought as such. This
worthy ironmonger and card-maker made every possible effort to discover the person who sold
them, but without success. He then honourably converted the profits to this charity, to which
he added part of his own property. P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS PARLIAMENT.

(FOR THE MIRROR.)

