Tale of a Tub.--It is generally supposed that the title of Swift's Tale of a Tub was a jest
originally levelled at the Puritan pulpit. It probably had served a more ancient purpose. In
Bale's Comedye concerning Three Laws, compiled in 1538, Infidelitas says:

    "Ye say they follow your law,
    And vary not a shaw,
      Which is a tale of a tub."

J.O.W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GENIUS.

(From the German of Claudius.)

    "Friend Ass," said the Fox, as he met him one day,
    "What can people mean?--Do you know what they say?"
    "No, I don't," said the Ass; "nor I don't care, not I."
    "Why, they say you're a GENIUS," was Reynard's reply.
    "My stars!" muttered Jack, quite appall'd by the word,
    "What can I have done that's so very absurd?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dedications (No. 17. p. 259.).--In Villaneuva's Dedication to the Duke of Medinaceli of his
Origen Epocas y Progressos del Teatro Español (Madrid, 1802, sm. 4to.), the enumeration of
the names, titles, and offices of his patron occupies three entire pages, and five lines of
a fourth.

F.C.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The Percy Society have just issued a reprint of a black letter tract, entitled "A manifest
Detection of the most Vyle and Detestable Use of Dice Play," which exhibits a curious picture
of the tricks in vogue amongst the gamesters of the sixteenth century, and, as the Editor very
justly observes, "comprises fuller explanations of terms used by Shakspeare and other old dramatists
than are to be found in the notes of the commentators. The mysteries of gowrds and fullams,
high men and low men, stumbling-blocks to many intelligent readers of the works of the Stratford
Poet, are here satisfactorily revealed."

Whatever hope the projectors of the approaching Exhibition of Works of Ancient and Mediæval
Art entertained of forming such a collection of objects as might deserve the attention of the
public generally, and accomplish the great end in view, have been more than realised. Thanks
to the liberality with which the possessors of works of early art of this description, from
the most distinguished personages of the realm, have placed their stores at the disposal of
the committee, the very novel exhibition which will open to the public on Thursday next, will
be as remarkable for its intrinsic beauty, as for its instructive and suggestive character.

We need scarcely remind lovers of fine editions of first class books that Messrs. Sotheby commence
the sale of the first portion of the extensive stock of Messrs. Payne and Foss, of Pall Mall,
on Monday next.

We have received from Mr. Straker, of 3. Adelaide Street, his Catalogue of English and Foreign
Theology, arranged according to subject, and with an Alphabetical Index of Authors: and also
Parts I. and II. of his Monthly Catalogues of Ancient and modern Theological Literature. Mr.
Lilly, who has removed to No. 7. Pall Mall, has also forwarded Nos. 1. and 2. of his Catalogues
of Rare, Curious, and Useful Books. Mr. Miller, of 43. Chandos Street, has just issued No.
3. for 1850 of his Catalogue of Books, Old and New: and Mr. Quarritch (of 16. Castle Street,
Leicester Square) No. 14. Catalogue of Oriental and Foreign Books: and, though not least deserving
of mention (by us, at all events, as he has the good taste to announce on his Catalogue "Notes
and Queries SOLD"), Mr. Nield, of 46. Burlington Arcade has just issued No. 2. for 1850, in
which are some Marprelate and Magical Books worth looking after.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.

E. VEE. "When Greeks join Greeks," &c. is a line by NAT. LEE. See No. 14. p. 211.

K.D.B. The following--"In Flesh-monger-street, Siward the moneyer (renders) to the King 15d.
and to William de Chesney houseroom, salt and water"--is a literal translation. Correspondents
must be careful not to omit letters or contractions in extracts from original records. It would
in this case have been difficult correctly to render "monet" without a contraction; and "Flemangerstret,"
as our correspondent wrote it, might have been changed into "Fell-monger-," instead of "Flesh-monger-street."
The service of "house-room, salt, and {327} water," seems a singular one; it was, of course,
a kind of entertainment, or a contribution to entertainment. If the Liber Winton contains no
other notice of similar services, "H.D.K." will find the subject illustrated, though not the
particular tenure, at pp. 260-267. of the first volume of Sir H. Ellis's Introduction to the
Great Domesday.

Rue Strewed before Prisoners at the Bar of the Old Bailey. This custom originated in the fear
of infection, at a period when Judges, &c. were liable to fall victims to gaol fever.

Erratum. No. 19. p. 307. col. 2., for "Plautorum Abbreviatis" read "Placitorum Abbreviatio."

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 5s.

AN HISTORICAL AND DESCRIPTIVE ACCOUNT OF CUMNOR PLACE, BERKS, with Biographical Notices of
the LADY AMY DUDLEY and of ANTHONY FORSTER, Esq., sometime M.P. for Abingdon; followed by some
Remarks on the Statements in Sir Walter Scott's Kenilworth; and a Brief History of the Parish
of Cumnor and its Antiquities. By ALFRED DURLING BARTLETT, of Abingdon.

Oxford and London: JOHN HENRY PARKER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, a New Edition, revised and much enlarged, of the

HISTORY OF ENGLAND from the first Invasion of the Romans, to the Accession of William and Mary,
in the Year 1688. By the Rev. Dr. LINGARD. Handsomely printed in Ten large octavo Volumes,
price Six Pounds, cloth lettered, and enriched with a Likeness of the Author, engraved in the
best style, from a Portrait taken last year by Mr. Skaile.

London: C. DOLMAN, 61. New Bond Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, 1 vol.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 8vo., 12s. 6d.; royal 8vo., 18s.

ORIGINES PATRICIÆ, or a Deduction of European Titles of Nobility and Dignified Offices, from
their Primitive Sources. By R.T. HAMPSON.

In 2 vols. 8vo., with Illuminated Fac-simile Engravings of Anglo-Saxon Kalendars. Price 32s.

MEDII ÆVI KALENDARIUM; or Dates, Charters and Customs of the Middle Ages, with Kalendars from
the Tenth to the Fifteenth Century; and an alphabetical Digest of Obsolete Names of Days, forming
a Glossary of the Dates and Ecclesiastical Observances of the Middle Ages. By R.T. HAMPSON.

FAC-SIMILE UNDER SEAL.

On a Sheet, 22 Inches by 30. Price 7s. 6d.

MAGNA CHARTA SUB SIGILLO REGIS JOHANNIS, An. Dom. M.CC.XV.

London: Henry Kent CAUSTON, at the Printing Offices, Nag's Head Court, Gracechurch Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty Day's Sale of the First Portion of the valuable and extensive Stock of Books of Messrs.
Payne and Foss. Wellington Street, Strand, on Monday, March 18th, 1850, and Nine following
Days, and on Monday, April 8th, and Nine following days, at One o'Clock precisely, the First
Portion of the extensive and valuable STOCK of BOOKS of Messrs. Payne and Foss, retiring from
Business: comprising interesting Publications in the Infancy of Printing, first and best Editions
of the Classics, Productions of the Aldine Press, Theology and best Editions of the Fathers,
French and Italian Books, Voyages and Travels, fine Books of Prints, English History and Miscellaneous
Literature. Many of the Books are on Large Paper, and in Morocco and Russia bindings. To be
viewed Two Days prior, and Catalogues had.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1 vol. royal 4to., with 18 Plates. Price 1l. 1s.

