That winter after Yule Thorkell got ready to go from home north to Ramfirth to bring his timber
from the north. He rode first up into the Dales and then to Lea-shaws to Thorstein, his kinsman,
where he gathered together men and horses. He afterwards went north to Ramfirth and stayed
there awhile, taken up with the business of his journey, and gathered to him horses from about
the firth, for he did not want to make more than one journey of it, if that could be managed.
But this did not speed swiftly, and Thorkell was busy at this work even into Lent. At last
he got under way with the work, and had the wood dragged from the north by more than twenty
horses, and had the timber stacked on Lea-Eyr, meaning later on to bring it in a boat out to
Holyfell. [Sidenote: The bargain with Halldor] Thorstein owned a large ferry-boat, and this
boat Thorkell was minded to use for his homeward voyage. Thorkell stayed at Lea-shaws through
Lent, for there was dear friendship between these kinsmen. Thorstein said one day to Thorkell,
they had better go to Herdholt, "for I want to make a bid for some land from Halldor, he having
but little money since he paid the brothers the weregild for their father, and the land being
just what I want most." Thorkell bade him do as he liked; so they left home a party of twenty
men together. They come to Herdholt, and Halldor gave them good welcome, and was most free
of talk with them. There were few men at home, for Halldor had sent his men north to Steingrims-firth,
as a whale had come ashore there in which he owned a share. Beiner the Strong was at home,
the only man now left alive of those who had been there with Olaf, the father of Halldor. Halldor
had said to Beiner at once when he saw Thorstein and Thorkell riding up, "I can easily see
what the errand of these kinsmen is--they are going to make me a bid for my land, and if that
is the case they will call me aside for a talk; I guess they will seat themselves each on either
side of me; so, then, if they should give me any trouble you must not be slower to set on Thorstein
than I on Thorkell. You have long been true to us kinsfolk. I have also sent to the nearest
homesteads for men, and at just the same moment I should like these two things to happen: the
coming in of the men summoned, and the breaking up of our talk." [Sidenote: Halldor gets the
best of it] Now as the day wore on, Thorstein hinted to Halldor that they should all go aside
and have some talk together, "for we have an errand with you." Halldor said it suited him well.
Thorstein told his followers they need not come with them, but Beiner went with them none the
less, for he thought things came to pass very much after what Halldor had guessed they would.
They went very far out into the field. Halldor had on a pinned-up cloak with a long pin brooch,
as was the fashion then. Halldor sat down on the field, but on either side of him each of these
kinsmen, so near that they sat well-nigh on his cloak; but Beiner stood over them with a big
axe in his hand. Then said Thorstein, "My errand here is that I wish to buy land from you,
and I bring it before you now because my kinsman Thorkell is with me; I should think that this
would suit us both well, for I hear that you are short of money, while your land is costly
to husband. I will give you in return an estate that will beseem you, and into the bargain
as much as we shall agree upon." In the beginning Halldor took the matter as if it were not
so very far from his mind, and they exchanged words concerning the terms of the purchase; and
when they felt that he was not so far from coming to terms, Thorkell joined eagerly in the
talk, and tried to bring the bargain to a point. [Sidenote: He refuses to deal with them] Then
Halldor began to draw back rather, but they pressed him all the more; yet at last it came to
this, that he was the further from the bargain the closer they pressed him. Then said Thorkell,
"Do you not see, kinsman Thorstein, how this is going? Halldor has delayed the matter for us
all day long, and we have sat here listening to his fooling and wiles. Now if you want to buy
the land we must come to closer quarters." Thorstein then said he must know what he had to
look forward to, and bade Halldor now come out of the shadow as to whether he was willing to
come to the bargain. Halldor answered, "I do not think I need keep you in the dark as to this
point, that you will have to go home to-night without any bargain struck." Then said Thorstein,
"Nor do I think it needful to delay making known to you what we have in our mind to do; for
we, deeming that we shall get the better of you by reason of the odds on our side, have bethought
us of two choices for you: one choice is, that you do this matter willingly and take in return
our friendship; but the other, clearly a worse one, is, that you now stretch out your hand
against your own will and sell me the land of Herdholt." But when Thorstein spoke in this outrageous
manner, Halldor leapt up so suddenly that the brooch was torn from his cloak, and said, "Something
else will happen before I utter that which is not my will." "What is that?" said Thorstein.
"A pole-axe will stand on your head from one of the worst of men, and thus cast down your insolence
and unfairness." Thorkell answered, "That is an evil prophecy, and I hope it will not be fulfilled;
and now I think there is ample cause why you, Halldor, should give up your land and have nothing
for it." [Sidenote: Thorkell and Thorstein return home disgusted] Then Halldor answered, "Sooner
you will be embracing the sea-tangle in Broadfirth than I sell my land against my own will."
Halldor went home after that, and the men he had sent for came crowding up to the place. Thorstein
was of the wrothest, and wanted forthwith to make an onset on Halldor. Thorkell bade him not
to do so, "for that is the greatest enormity at such a season as this; but when this season
wears off, I shall not stand in the way of his and ours clashing together." Halldor said he
was given to think he would not fail in being ready for them. After that they rode away and
talked much together of this their journey; and Thorstein, speaking thereof, said that, truth
to tell, their journey was most wretched. "But why, kinsman Thorkell, were you so afraid of
falling on Halldor and putting him to some shame?" Thorkell answered, "Did you not see Beiner,
who stood over you with the axe reared aloft? Why, it was an utter folly, for forthwith on
seeing me likely to do anything, he would have driven that axe into your head." They rode now
home to Lea-shaws; and Lent wears and Passion Week sets in.

CHAP. LXXVI

The Drowning of Thorkell, A.D. 1026

[Sidenote: Thorkell goes for his wood] On Maundy Thursday, early in the morning, Thorkell got
ready for his journey. Thorstein set himself much against it: "For the weather looks to me
uncertain," said he. Thorkell said the weather would do all right. "And you must not hinder
me now, kinsman, for I wish to be home before Easter." So now Thorkell ran out the ferry-boat,
and loaded it. But Thorstein carried the lading ashore from out the boat as fast as Thorkell
and his followers put it on board. Then Thorkell said, "Give over now, kinsman, and do not
hinder our journey this time; you must not have your own way in this." Thorstein said, "He
of us two will now follow the counsel that will answer the worst, for this journey will cause
the happening of great matters." Thorkell now bade them farewell till their next meeting, and
Thorstein went home, and was exceedingly downcast. He went to the guest-house, and bade them
lay a pillow under his head, the which was done. The servant-maid saw how the tears ran down
upon the pillow from his eyes. And shortly afterwards a roaring blast struck the house, and
Thorstein said, "There, we now can hear roaring the slayer of kinsman Thorkell." [Sidenote:
The drowning of Thorkell] Now to tell of the journey of Thorkell and his company: they sail
this day out, down Broadfirth, and were ten on board. The wind began to blow very high, and
rose to full gale before it blew over. They pushed on their way briskly, for the men were most
plucky. Thorkell had with him the sword Skofnung, which was laid in the locker. Thorkell and
his party sailed till they came to Bjorn's isle, and people could watch them journey from both
shores. But when they had come thus far, suddenly a squall caught the sail and overwhelmed
the boat. There Thorkell was drowned and all the men who were with him. The timber drifted
ashore wide about the islands, the corner-staves (pillars) drove ashore in the island called
Staff-isle. Skofnung stuck fast to the timbers of the boat, and was found in Skofnungs-isle.
That same evening that Thorkell and his followers were drowned, it happened at Holyfell that
Gudrun went to the church, when other people had gone to bed, and when she stepped into the
lich-gate she saw a ghost standing before her. He bowed over her and said, "Great tidings,
Gudrun." She said, "Hold then your peace about them, wretch." [Sidenote: Gudrun and the ghosts]
Gudrun went on to the church, as she had meant to do, and when she got up to the church she
thought she saw that Thorkell and his companions were come home and stood before the door of
the church, and she saw that water was running off their clothes. Gudrun did not speak to them,
but went into the church, and stayed there as long as it seemed good to her. After that she
went to the guest-room, for she thought Thorkell and his followers must have gone there; but
when she came into the chamber, there was no one there. Then Gudrun was struck with wonder
at the whole affair. On Good Friday Gudrun sent her men to find out matters concerning the
journeying of Thorkell and his company, some up to Shawstrand and some out to the islands.
By then the flotsam had already come to land wide about the islands and on both shores of the
firth. The Saturday before Easter the tidings got known and great news they were thought to
be, for Thorkell had been a great chieftain. Thorkell was eight-and-forty years old when he
was drowned, and that was four winters before Olaf the Holy fell. Gudrun took much to heart
the death of Thorkell, yet bore her bereavement bravely. Only very little of the church timber
could ever be gathered in. Gellir was now fourteen years old, and with his mother he took over
the business of the household and the chieftainship. It was soon seen that he was made to be
a leader of men. Gudrun now became a very religious woman. She was the first woman in Iceland
who knew the Psalter by heart. She would spend long time in the church at nights saying her
prayers, and Herdis, Bolli's daughter, always went with her at night. Gudrun loved Herdis very
much. [Sidenote: The ghost of the sorceress] It is told that one night the maiden Herdis dreamed
that a woman came to her who was dressed in a woven cloak, and coifed in a head cloth, but
she did not think the woman winning to look at. She spoke, "Tell your grandmother that I am
displeased with her, for she creeps about over me every night, and lets fall down upon me drops
so hot that I am burning all over from them. My reason for letting you know this is, that I
like you somewhat better, though there is something uncanny hovering about you too. However,
I could get on with you if I did not feel there was so much more amiss with Gudrun." Then Herdis
awoke and told Gudrun her dream. Gudrun thought the apparition was of good omen. Next morning
Gudrun had planks taken up from the church floor where she was wont to kneel on the hassock,
and she had the earth dug up, and they found blue and evil-looking bones, a round brooch, and
a wizard's wand, and men thought they knew then that a tomb of some sorceress must have been
there; so the bones were taken to a place far away where people were least likely to be passing.

CHAP. LXXVII

The Return of Bolli, A.D. 1030

When four winters were passed from the drowning of Thorkell Eyjolfson a ship came into Islefirth
belonging to Bolli Bollison, most of the crew of which were Norwegians. [Sidenote: Bolli's
splendour] Bolli brought out with him much wealth, and many precious things that lords abroad
had given him. Bolli was so great a man for show when he came back from this journey that he
would wear no clothes but of scarlet and fur, and all his weapons were bedight with gold: he
was called Bolli the Grand. He made it known to his shipmasters that he was going west to his
own countrysides, and he left his ship and goods in the hands of his crew. Bolli rode from
the ship with twelve men, and all his followers were dressed in scarlet, and rode on gilt saddles,
and all were they a trusty band, though Bolli was peerless among them. He had on the clothes
of fur which the Garth-king had given him, he had over all a scarlet cape; and he had Footbiter
girt on him, the hilt of which was dight with gold, and the grip woven with gold; he had a
gilded helmet on his head, and a red shield on his flank, with a knight painted on it in gold.
He had a dagger in his hand, as is the custom in foreign lands; and whenever they took quarters
the women paid heed to nothing but; gazing at Bolli and his grandeur, and that of his followers.
In this state Bolli rode into the western parts all the way till he came to Holyfell with his
following. Gudrun was very glad to see her son. Bolli did not stay there long till he rode
up to Sælingsdale Tongue to see Snorri, his father-in-law, and his wife Thordis, and their
meeting was exceeding joyful. Snorri asked Bolli to stay with him with as many of his men as
he liked. Bolli accepted the invitation gratefully, and was with Snorri all the winter, with
the men who had ridden from the north with him. Bolli got great renown from this journey. Snorri
made it no less his business Snorri' now to treat Bolli with every kindness than death when
he was with him before.

CHAP. LXXVIII

The Death of Snorri, and the End, A.D. 1031

