THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, NO. 270.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

TOWN-HALL, LIVERPOOL.

From a small inconsiderable hamlet, Liverpool, within a century and a half, has been singularly
advanced in national importance. In Leland's time it had only a chapel, its parish church being
at Walton, a distance of four miles from the town.

In the year 1571 the inhabitants of Liverpool sent a memorial to Queen Elizabeth, praying relief
from a subsidy which they thought themselves unable to bear, wherein they styled themselves
"her majesty's poor decayed town of Liverpool." Some time towards the close of this reign,
Henry, Earl of Derby, in his way to the Isle of Man, staid at his house at Liverpool called
the Tower; at which the corporation erected a handsome hall or seat for him in the church,
where he honoured them several times with his presence.

Liverpool, from this time till the end of the next century, made but a slow progress either
in the extent of its trade or in the number of its inhabitants; nor is there any remarkable
occurrence recorded of it, except the siege of it by Prince Rupert, in the civil wars in 1644;
some traces of which were discovered, when the foundation of the Liverpool Infirmary was sunk,
particularly the marks of the trenches thrown up by the prince, and some cartouches, &c. left
behind by the besiegers.

About the year 1698 an act of parliament was obtained, empowering the inhabitants to build
a new church. From that time may be traced the rapid progress of population and commerce, until
Liverpool has now become second only to the metropolis of Great Britain.

In 1760 the inhabitants of Liverpool were computed at 25,787; in 1811, at 94,376; and in 1821,
at 118,972!

  Far as the eye can trace the prospect round
  The splendid tracts of opulence are found;
  Yet scarce a hundred annual rounds have run.
  Since first the fabric of this power begun;
  His noble stream, inglorious, Mersey roll'd,
  Nor felt his waves by lab'ring art controll'd:
  Along his side a few small cots were spread,
  His finny brood their humble tenants fed;
  At op'ning dawn with fraudful nets supply'd
  The padding skiff would brave his specious tide,
  Ply round the shores, nor tempt the dangerous main,
  But seek ere night the friendly port again.

The public buildings in Liverpool are not numerous, but they are worthy of attention. The Town-Hall,
which is the subject of our present embellishment, is in a striking style of architecture.
The first stone of this structure was laid in 1749, and the hall was opened in 1754. It is
an elegant stone building, having two fronts; one towards Castle-street, the other towards
the area formed by the New Exchange Buildings. Each front consists of an elegant range of Corinthian
columns, supporting a pediment, and are themselves supported by a rustic base. Between the
capitals are heads, and emblems of commerce in basso-relievo; and on the pediment of the grand
front is a noble piece of sculpture representing Commerce committing her treasures to the race
of Neptune. The ground floor of this building was originally intended as an Exchange for the
accommodation of the merchants, with insurance offices adjoining; but was never used for that
purpose, the merchants prefering to meet in the open street opposite the building. Since its
erection a considerable addition was made to it on the north side, and some progress towards
extending and improving the rooms and offices within the building, when the fire in 1795 destroyed
the whole of the interior. After this destructive accident the corporation determined to rebuild
the interior upon a new and extended plan, and to appropriate the whole of the building to
the purposes of judicial and other offices for the police of the town, a mansion for the mayor,
a suit of public assembly rooms, and for offices for the general corporation business. All
the offices, rooms, and passages, on the basement and ground stories, are now arched with brick,
as a security against any future fire.

The Exchange Buildings form three sides of a quadrangle, 194 feet by 180 in the clear space,
with arcades or piazzas in front, and the whole is in a style of architecture corresponding
with the north front of the Town-Hall and Old Exchange, which forms the fourth side of the
square at the head of Castle-street. The east side of these buildings on the ground floor,
contains a coffee-room, 94 feet by 52, with appropriate rooms and offices for the keeper, &c.;
on the second story over the coffee-room, is a room for the under-writers, upon the principle
of Lloyd's in London, 72 feet by 36: a second room, 69 feet by 29, with several other rooms
attached to them. The north and west sides of these buildings are brokers' and merchants' offices,
and counting houses. In the centre of the area is erected an elegant group of statues in commemoration
of the heroic and immortal Nelson.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOP HARVEST.

The southern counties of England, particularly Surrey and Kent, now yield their valuable produce
of hops in this month. The common hop, humulus lupulus, is propagated either by nursery plants
or by cuttings. These are set in hills, formed by digging holes in the spring, which are filled
with fine mould, and the number of which varies from 800 to 1,000, or 1,200 per acre. One,
two, or three plants are put in each hill; but, if hops are designed to be raised from cuttings,
four or five of these, from three to four inches in length, are planted and covered one inch
deep with fine mould.

At the end of the first year it becomes necessary to put poles into the hills, round which
the bines reared from plants are wound; at the expiration of the second year, full-sized poles,
from 15 to 20 feet, are set, (though the hop-bines will run to the height of 50 feet,) in the
proportion of two poles to each hill, and a similar number of hop-plants are fastened loosely
round each pole, by means of withered rushes. Hops begin to flower about the latter end of
June or the beginning of July. The poles are now entirely covered with verdure, and the pendent
flowers appear in clusters and light festoons. The hops, which are the scaly seed-vessels of
the female plants, are, when the seed is formed, (generally about the end of August,) picked
off by women and children; for this purpose the poles are taken up with the plants clinging
to them. The seeds are then dried over a charcoal fire, exposed to the air for a few days,
and packed in sacks and sent to market.

The culture of hops, though profitable when it succeeds, is very precarious: as soon as the
plant appears above ground, it is attacked by an insect somewhat similar to the turnip-fly,
which devours the young heads. Hop-gardens, situated on chalky soils, are peculiarly subject
to its depredations. In the months of June and July, the hops are liable to be blown by a species
of aphis, or fly. This insect, however, does not endanger the growth of the plant, unless it
be in a weak state, in consequence of the depredations committed on its root by the larvae
of the ottermoth, phalaena humuli.

The hop is a most valuable plant: in its wild state it is relished by cows, horses, goats,
sheep, and swine. When cultivated, its young tops are eaten, early in the spring, as substitutes
for asparagus, being wholesome and aperient. Its principal use, however, is in brewing malt
liquors, communicating that fine bitter flavour to our beer, and making it keep for a longer
time than it otherwise would do. Hops also serve some important purposes in medicine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO THE MEMORY OF THE LATE RIGHT HON. GEORGE CANNING.

  Why does Britannia bend with pensive mien,
    And throbbing bosom o'er that sable bier,
  To which yon melancholy group is seen
    In mute affliction slowly drawing near,
  Whilst weeping genius, pointing to the sky,
  In silent anguish heaves a plaintive sigh?

  She seems to take a lingering last farewell,
    As down her cheek the pearly teardrops flow,
  Of some lamented spirit she lov'd well,
    By Fate's inexorable shaft laid low;
  And thus half broken-hearted to complain
  "When shall we look upon thy like again!"

  Poor drooping maid--she mourns the doom of one,
    Whom at a time like this she ill can spare,--
  Her talented and patriotic son,
    Whom art could not deceive, nor vice ensnare,
  To truth and sacred liberty allied,
  His country's hope, her honour and her pride!

  Yes--he is gone, whose energetic mind
    Upheld the pillars of a mighty state;
  Whose wisdom, worth, and eloquence, combin'd,
    Earn'd the just tribute of the good and great,
  Ensur'd a deathless wreath for coming days--
  The poor man's blessing, and the rich one's praise!

  Relentless Death!--could no one else suffice?
    No less invaluable prize be found?
  But must he fall a noble sacrifice
    And early victim to thy fatal wound!
  Thou stern and merciless destroyer, say,
  Why didst thou blight his brief but glorious day?

  It is not Albion only who deplores.--
    All sympathising Europe wails his doom;
  And bright-eyed Freedom hastes from Western shores
    To drop a grateful tear upon his tomb;
  And fondly hovering round his slumbering shade
  Guards the lorn spot where her best friend is laid.

  Now, stay my muse--for worthier hands than thine
    Will twine the laurel round his hallow'd bust;
  And raise in happier and more polish'd line
    A splendid trophy to his sacred dust;
  When thy untaught and unpretending lay
  Shall be forgotten and have pass'd away.

  Yet, ere thy chords are mute, oh, once again
    My trembling lyre let me touch thy string!
  And in a humble, but a heartfelt strain
    Of him, the much-lov'd child of Genius sing;
  And place this simple, unaffected verse,
  With moisten'd eye upon his plumed hearse:--

  "If all that virtue, all that fame holds dear,
  Deserve a tribute--stop and pay it here!"

J.E.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK.

No. XLV.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEHIND THE SCENES; OR, A BREAKFAST IN NEWGATE.

Returning from the country, I found myself in the Old Bailey, shortly after seven in the morning.
I had some difficulty in making my way through the crowd there assembled, which I instantly
perceived, from the platform erected in front of Newgate, had been brought together to witness
one of those mournful exhibitions which the administration of criminal justice so frequently
furnishes in this immense metropolis.

My first impulse was to retreat with all possible expedition, but the impediments opposed to
my doing so compelled a pause; and it then struck me, that however reluctant to witness suffering,
there was much in the scene before me on which a reflecting mind might dwell with interest,
if not with advantage.

