The following recipe of Juliet Corson's was traveling the round of the newspapers a few years
ago:--Boil the beets just tender, peel and cut into small dice. Take a pint of milk to a pint
of beets, two or three eggs well beaten, a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper and the least
grating of nutmeg; put these ingredients into an earthen dish that can be sent to the table;
bake the pudding until the custard is set, and serve it hot as a vegetable. A favorite Carolina
dish.

BOILED BORECOLE OR KALE.

Use a half peck of kale. Strip the leaves from the stems and choose the crisp and curly ones
for use, wash through two waters and drain. Boil in salted water twenty minutes, then pour
into a colander and let cold water run over it, drain and chop fine. Brown a small onion in
a tablespoonful of butter, and add the kale, seasoning with salt and pepper, add a half teacupful
of the water in which the kale was boiled, and let all simmer together for twenty minutes.
Just before taking from the stove add a half cup of milk or cream, thickening with a little
flour. Let boil a moment and serve.

KALE GREENS.

These make excellent greens for winter and spring use. Boil hard one half hour with salt pork
or corned beef, then drain and serve in a hot dish. Garnish with slices of hard boiled eggs,
or the yolks of eggs quirled by pressing through a patent potato masher. It is also palatable
served with a French dressing.

KALE ON TOAST.

Boil kale, mix with a good cream sauce and serve on small squares of toast.

BROCCOLI.

Broccoli if not fresh is apt to be bitter in spite of good cooking. Strip off all the side
shoots, leaving only the top; cut the stalk close to the bottom of the bunch, throw into cold
water for half an hour, drain, tie in a piece of cheese cloth to keep it from breaking and
boil twenty minutes in salted water. Take out carefully, place upon a hot dish, pour over it
a cream sauce and serve very hot; or it may be served on toast.

BRUSSELS SPROUTS.

Wash in cold water, pick off the dead leaves, put them in two quarts of boiling water, with
a tablespoonful of salt, and a quarter teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda. Boil rapidly for
twenty minutes with the saucepan uncovered, then drain in a colander, and serve with drawn
butter or a cream sauce.

BOILED CABBAGE.

Slice a cabbage fine and boil in half water and half milk, when tender add cream and butter.
This is delicious.

A CABBAGE CENTER PIECE.

Take a head of cabbage, one that has been picked too late is best, for the leaves open better
then, and are apt to be slightly curled. Lay the cabbage on a flat plate or salver and press
the leaves down and open with your hand, firmly but gently, so as not to break them off. When
they all lie out flat, stab the firm, yellow heart through several times with a sharp knife,
until its outlines are lost and then place flowers at random all over the cabbage.

Roses are prettiest, but any flower which has a firm, stiff stem, capable of holding the blossom
upright will do. Press the stems down through the leaves and put in sufficient green to vary
prettily. The outer leaves of the cabbage, the only ones to be seen when the flowers are in,
form a charming background, far prettier than any basket.

Roses are best for all seasons, but autumn offers some charming variations. The brilliant scarlet
berries of the mountain ash or red thorn mingled with the deep, rich green of feathery asparagus,
make a delicious color symphony most appropriate to the season.

G. L. COLBRON.

CREAM SLAW.

Chop a crisp head of cabbage fine, place in the individual dishes in which it is to be served;
fill a cup with white sugar, moisten it with vinegar, add a cup of sour cream beaten until
smooth, mix thoroughly, pour over the cabbage and serve at once.

CABBAGE A LA HOLLAND.

The following is a favorite dish in Holland:--Put together in a saucepan, either porcelain
or a perfect granite one, a small head of red cabbage shredded, four tart apples peeled and
sliced, one large tablespoonful of butter or of drippings, a teaspoonful of salt, a half teaspoonful
of pepper, and a little sprinkling of cheese or nutmeg; stew over a slow fire at least three
hours. Mix together one tablespoonful of vinegar, a little flour and one tablespoonful of currant
jelly, just before taking from the fire add this mixture to the cabbage, boil up once or twice
and serve.

RED CABBAGE PICKLE.

This is an improvement on saur kraut. Slice a large red cabbage in fine shreds, place on a
large platter and sprinkle well with salt; allow it to stand three days and then drain. Heat
enough vinegar to cover it nicely, and put in one ounce of whole spices, pepper, cloves, allspice
and mace. Put the cabbage into a stone jar, pour the boiling vinegar upon it, cover and let
stand three days.

CABBAGE PUDDING.

Chop up small, enough white cabbage to fill a large baking pan when done. Put it in a pot of
boiling water that has been salted, let it boil until tender, then drain thoroughly in a colander.
In two quarts of the cabbage stir half a pound of butter, salt and pepper to taste, one pint
of sweet cream and four eggs beaten separately. Add also, a pinch of cayenne pepper; put in
a pan and bake for half an hour.

PURITAN CABBAGE.

Take half of a small very solid head of white cabbage, cut into eighths, from top to stem,
without cutting quite through the stem so that it does not fall into pieces; cover with cold
water for one hour; then immerse it in a porcelain kettle of rapidly boiling water, into which
has been dropped a teaspoonful of salt and soda the size of a pea. Cover the vessel well and
continue boiling for five minutes; drain, cover again with fresh boiling water and let boil
for eight or ten minutes longer. Take out of water, draining, flat side down, on a hot platter
for a moment. Then turn right side up, allowing the slices to spread apart a little, and drop
slowly over it the following sauce: One tablespoon butter and two tablespoons sweet cream,
melted together. Select and have ready to use at once, eighteen or twenty plump, good sized
oysters, dried on a towel. Take a double-wire gridiron and butter it well; spread the oysters
carefully on one side of the gridiron and fold the other side down over them. Have a clear
fire and broil them quickly, first one side, then the other, turning iron but once. Dot them
over the hot cabbage, giving all a faint dust of curry powder and two or three dashes of white
pepper. This is a most dainty and delicious dish.

CHICAGO RECORD.

CABBAGE SALAD.

This salad requires about a pint and a half of chopped cabbage. The cabbage should have the
loose leaves removed, the stem cut out, and then be laid in cold water twelve hours. Chop rather
fine, pour over and mix with it a boiled dressing. Heat three-quarters of a cup of milk and
beat two egg yolks with a fork. Mix with the egg a half-teaspoonful of mustard, one half-teaspoonful
of salt, a teaspoonful of granulated gelatine that has been softened in a little cold water,
a teaspoonful of sugar and a few grains of cayenne. Cook a tablespoonful of butter and flour
together and add half a cup of vinegar. Now cook the milk and egg mixture together like a soft
custard and combine with the other part. This dressing, if sealed tight, will keep a long time.
When the cabbage and dressing are mixed, fill little individual molds and set away to cool.
After-dinner coffee cups, wet in cold water, make good molds. Bits of red beet or half an olive
put in the bottom of the mold before the cabbage is put in will make a pretty garnish when
the salad is turned out.

CHICAGO RECORD.

SOUR CABBAGE.

Beat one half-cupful of sour cream until smooth, add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and one
beaten egg, pour over chopped cabbage raw or boiled, and mix thoroughly. Serve on lettuce.

STUFFED CABBAGE.

Use a savoy cabbage, open up the leaves and wash thoroughly in cold water, put in salted boiling
water and boil five minutes, then take out without breaking, and put in cold water. Make a
stuffing of sausage meat, and bread crumbs which have been moistened and squeezed. To a half
pound of sausage allow one egg, two tablespoonfuls of minced onion browned in butter, a pinch
of parsley and four tablespoonfuls of minced cooked ham. Drain, and open up the cabbage to
the center, between the leaves put in a half teaspoonful of the stuffing, fold over two or
three leaves, put in again and so continue until the cabbage is filled. When finished press
it as firmly as the case will allow, tie up in a piece of cheese cloth and put into boiling
water; boil two hours. Serve the cabbage in a deep dish and pour over a cream sauce.

TURKISH CABBAGE.

Prepare the cabbage as above for stuffing, then cut out the stalk carefully. Cut each leaf
in pieces about three inches square and fold into it a forcemeat of some sort, or a highly
seasoned vegetable dressing. These little rolls are arranged in layers in a saucepan and are
held in place by the weight of a heavy plate; a broth is then turned over them and they are
boiled half an hour over a moderate fire. Serve in a hot deep dish and pour over a good sauce
made from the broth in which they were cooked.

CARROTS A LA CREME.

Take a large bunch of very small new carrots, scrape them, tie them loosely in a piece of coarse
muslin and put into a saucepan almost full of boiling water, to which has been added a small
lump of beef drippings and two ounces of salt. In about twenty minutes they will be tender,
when remove from the hot water and plunge for a moment in cold. Next melt an ounce of butter
in a saucepan and stir into this a dessert spoonful of flour, a small quantity each of pepper,
salt and cayenne, also a little nutmeg and half a teacupful of cream. Remove the carrots from
the muslin, put them into the saucepan with the other ingredients and let them simmer in them
for a few minutes; then serve very quickly while hot. Green peas and carrots mixed and dressed
in this way make an excellent variation.

CARROTS A LA FLAMANDE.

When par-boiled and drained, put the carrots into a saucepan with a piece of butter, a small
lump of sugar and as much water as may be necessary for sauce; add some finely minced parsley
and pepper and salt to the taste. Let the carrots simmer until done (about fifteen minutes)
shaking them occasionally. Beat together the yolks of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls of cream;
stir this into the carrots off the fire and serve.

CARROT CROQUETTES.

Wash six small, fine-grained carrots and boil until tender. Drain and mash them. To each cupful
add one-half spoonful of salt and one-fourth as much pepper, the yolks of two raw eggs, a grate
of nutmeg and one level teaspoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly and set away until cold. Shape
into tiny croquettes, dip in slightly beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs and fry in smoking-hot
fat.

CHICAGO RECORD.

FRIED CARROTS.

When the carrots are boiled tender, slice them lengthwise. Into a frying pan put one tablespoonful
of butter, and when very hot put in the carrots; brown them lightly on both sides, sprinkle
them with salt, pepper and a little sugar and garnish with parsley.

ESCALLOPED CARROTS.

