    SCENE--An Auction-room, breathing an air of solid, if
    somewhat Philistinish suburban comfort and respectability.
    Amidst a labyrinthine accumulation of household
    furniture, a number of people are dispersed, many of them
    substantial-looking middle-class male and female "buyers,"
    with lists and lead-pencils, on the look-out for "bargains," a
    sprinkling of the ancient race, and an outer fringe of casual,
    lounging, lookers-on. The gentleman in the rostrum is a
    voluble personage, with a rapidly roving eye, of preternatural
    quickness in picking up "bids." Attendants, shaggy men,
    in soiled shirt-sleeves, with saw-dusty whiskers, and
    husky voices. A pleasant-faced Paterfamilias, and his
    "Good lady," are discovered inspecting a solidly-built,
    well-seasoned, age-toned chest of mahogany drawers.

Paterfamilias (sotto voce). Just what you want, my dear, as far as I can see. What do you think?

Materfamilias. I like the look of them much, JOHN. None of your new, cheap, thinly-veneered,
blown-together rubbish, smelling of shavings and French-polish. Solid ma'ogany, every bit;
the drawers run as smoothly as could be wished, and--see! if there ain't actually some sprigs
of dry lavender still a laying in 'em!

Paterfamilias (decidedly). Just so, my dear, I shall certainly bid for them. [Marks his catalogue
vigorously.

Auctioneer (dropping his hammer smartly). Sold! Remove the first-class feather-bed, SAM. Buyer
o' that has a bargain! (Nodding blandly to pleased purchaser). Really the prices at which things
are going to-night are ruinous! 'Owever, there's no reserve, and the lucky public gets the
pull. The next article, Ladies and Gents, No. 471, is a very superior, well-made, fully-seasoned,
solid Spanish, ma'ogany chest of drawers. Chest o' drawers, SAM! (To Paterfamilias.) Would
you mind standing a inch or so aside, Sir? Thanks! There they are, Ladies and Gentlemen, open
to hinspection, and warranted to bear it. An unusually excellent lot, fit for the sleeping-apartment
of a prince, at a price within the means of a pork-butcher. (Laughter.) Oh, it's righteous,
Gents. No 'umbug about me. There's quality, if you like. Well worth a ten-pun note. What shall
I have the pleasure of saying for this very superior article? 'Ow much for the chest o' drawers?
Who bids for the ma'ogany chest? Thirty shillings. Thank you, Sir! Any advance on thirty shillings?
Thirty-five! And six! Thirty-five-and-six for this very desirable little lot! Worth five times
the amount, Ladies, as you know! What do you think. Mum? [To Materfamilias, who smiles vaguely,
and looks at her husband.

Paterfamilias. Two pounds! [Feels he has made an impression.

Auctioneer. Two pounds! (Confidentially to P.) Your good lady knows a good bit o' stuff when
she sees it, Sir! Two pounds for the chest! Two pounds! Any advance on a couple o' pounds?
All done at two pounds? Going at two pounds! (Meeting silence, pretends to hear another bid).
Two-pun-ten! Quite right, Sir! Very foolish to lose such a superior harticle for a pound or
two. Going at two-pun-ten! Larst time, two-pun ten! Going--going--g--

Paterfamilias (hastily). Two-fifteen!

Auctioneer (cheerily). Two-fifteen! (Taking other imaginary bids.) Three-pounds! Three-five!
(Thank you, Madam). Three-ten! Going at three-ten! Last time, three-ten! (To Paterfamilias.)
Are you going to lose it, Sir? Worth double, I assure you! Ask your good lady!

Materfamilias (aside). Bid three-fifteen, JOHN, but not a penny more!

Paterfamilias (weakly). Three-fifteen!

Auctioneer. Three-fifteen! Four! Going at four! Last time at four! All done, four! Going, going--gone!
(Drops hammer.) Sold at four pounds, SAM! (Looks round.) Who bid four? [No response, as the
last bid was imaginary.

Sam (huskily). Gen'l'man as bid four jest slipped hout, Sir.

Auctioneer (tartly). Tut--tut--tut! Too bad, really. Well, Sir, then I must take your bid.
Sold to this Gentleman, SAM, at Three-fifteen!

    [Paterfamilias, highly pleased, pays deposit, and arranges to
    send for his bargain in the morning. As he and his "good lady"
    leave, they notice close by, three men with barrows, each
    bearing a blazingly red and strongly-smelling chest of
    drawers. Materfamilias complacently remarks on the manifest
    superiority of the article they have purchased, to "that
    red rubbish." Next morning they receive, instead of their
    own "bargain," one of those identical brand-new, badly-made,
    unseasoned, thinly-veneered "shop 'uns," which are "blown
    together" by the gross for such purposes. They protest, but
    vainly, notwithstanding their true assertion that the drawers
    they received contain "fresh shavings" instead of the "sprigs
    of blooming lavender" they had observed in those they thought
    they had purchased. Paterfamilias, a week later, looking in
    at the Auction-room, sees what he could swear to be the very
    chest of drawers he had purchased being "sold again" in a
    similar fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MY PRETTY JANUS, OH NEVER LOOK SO SHY!"

AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS is greater than ever. It is the penitential season of Lent; some excellent
persons renounce all worldly amusements; others, not quite so excellent, and both lots thinking,
it may be, no small beer of themselves, we may term the first lot Treble Excellent and the
second Double Excellent--the latter division think that concerts possibly, sacred concerts
certainly, and certain other forms of mild and non-theatrical entertainments, are of a sufficiently
severe character to constitute, as it were, a form of discipline. Then there are the larger
proportion of those "who," as Mrs. Malaprop would say, "'care for none of these things,' like
GALILEO, my dear," and who inquire. "What is the state of the odds as long as we think we're
happy?" and who would indulge in balls and theatres, and in every other form of amusement,
while such pursuits afforded them, or seemed, to afford them, any pleasure. To the first section,
i.e., the "unco guid," DRURIOLANUS has nothing to offer, not even a course of sermons by popular
preachers; but to the two others he has much to say. For these, last Saturday, he commenced
the first of his series of Lenten Oratorios at Covent Garden--it was the 14th of February,
and this was his Valentine--and on the 17th, i.e., the Tuesday afterwards, having made, so
to speak, a clean sweep of everything serious, out he comes with his Fancy Dress and Masked
Ball. Elijah the Prophet, on Saturday, in the Covent Garden Calendar, must be reckoned among
the "minor profits," seeing that the biggest profit would be found in the Bal Masqué on Tuesday.
Over the doors should be the motto, "Festina Lente," whereof the Druriolanian translation must
be, "Keep it up in Lent." Ave Janus Druriolanus!

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD TIMES REVIVED.

What! when London Assurance is going off so well every night, isn't it a pity that it should
go off altogether? CHARLES WYNDHAM as Dazzle is delightfully flashy, and FARREN as the old
beau, Sir Harcourt, admirable. Miss MOORE charming, Mrs. BEERE bright and sparkling; BOURCHIER
quite up to "the Oxonian" mark of Tom and Jerry; BLAKELEY delicious, and GIDDENS as good a
Dolly Spanker as you'd wish to see. It's too good to be "taken off." Not that the piece itself
is a perfect gem, but the acting! Tout est là. Oddsfish, your Majesty, CHARLES REX, Merry Monarch
of the Cri, don't remove it altogether, but let us have it just once or twice a week during
the season. CHARLES, "our friend," do! It's worth while, if but to see you sitting carelessly
at the end of the piece in that chair, R.H., as if you didn't care for anything or anybody.
Only--cut the tag and come to the Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ETHICS OF MATCH-BOXES.

BY COUNT DOLLSTOI.

(INTENDED FOR A CONTEMPORARY, BUT FOUND TO BE TOO SHORT.)

I.

What is the true explanation of the use which people make of matches--of safety matches, wooden
matches, wax matches, and, less commonly, of fusees? Ask any man why he uses such things, and
he will tell you that he does it to get a light, or because others do it.

Is this true? You will probably think so. Let us examine the question. Why does a man hold
his hand in front of a match when he lights it in the street? To screen it from the wind, or
to hide it from the sight of passers-by? Why do ladies leave the dinner-table before the men
begin to smoke? To avoid the smell of tobacco--which is well known to be aromatic, healthy,
and delightful--or because the natural modesty of women shrinks from witnessing the striking
of a match? Why, in a railway-carriage, do you hold your fusee out of window when you light
it? Is it because you do not care about being half-choked--a paltry plea--or is it to conceal
from young persons who may be in the carriage the sparkle which must inevitably remind them
of wicked and alluring eyes?

"To get a light, or because others do it." Is that true? Do not trifle with the question. Read
all my works. Do not get them from a contemptible circulating library, but buy them.

II.

Some may not yet be convinced that the striking of matches is suggestive and immoral. To me
nearly everything is suggestive, but there are some stupid persons in England. I will be patient
with them, and give them more evidence.

A wax match is called a vesta. Who was Vesta? But this is too horrible. I cannot pursue this
point in a periodical which is read in families. I can only refer you to the classical dictionary,
and remind you that everything must infallibly suggest its opposite. Again, there are matches
which strike only on the box. It distresses me to write these words. The idea of "onlyness,"
of restriction, must bring matrimony to the mind of everyone. If you do not know what I think
about marriage, buy The Kreutzer Sonata. It is not customary to have more than one wife. Consequently,
anything which has one in it--as, for instance, the date of WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR--reminds
me of marriage, and is, therefore, degrading. Why, the very word "match" suggests marriage:
and yet we allow young children to sell whole boxes of them in the streets. Horrible! Do you
think our lower orders would become discontented, and strike, if they had not seen matches
doing it first? Still more horrible!

Finally, you strike a match that never struck you, that never offended you in any way. Is that
just, or even manly? Yet, in nine cases out of ten, the law takes no notice of the offence.

"To get a light, or because others do it." Are you not convinced now that, when you use these
words, you are not speaking the truth?

III.

I do not think I ever met anybody who was quite as moral, or quite as original, as I am. You
should give a complete set of my works to each of your children. I might have generalised on
the ill-effects of those vices from a special case--my own case. Had I done so, I could have
got it printed. I can get anything printed that I write. I preferred to take a newer line,
and to show you how vile you are when you use matches. Everything is vile. But you are wondering,
perhaps, how a great novelist becomes a small faddist. You must wait till next month, and then
read my article on the immorality of parting one's hair with a comb. A common table-fork is
the only pure thing with which one can part one's hair. Combs deaden the conscience. But more
of this anon.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

What is this the Baron reads in the D.T. of Feb. 9, and in the Daily Graphic of the same date?
Here is a portion of the extract from the D.T.:--"The Monthly Meeting of that quaint Literary
Society, 'Ye Odd Volumes,' at Limmer's Hotel, brought together not merely a goodly show of
the Volumes themselves, but an unusually large array of visitors," and then follows the distinguished
list, the crowning point being reached when we come to the name of "The Baron de BOOK-WORMS
of Punch," and in the Daily Graphic the daring reporter goes a step farther, as, after giving
the name of a certain honoured guest, he parenthetically explains that this academical convive
is the "Baron de B.-W.!" Erreur! I, the Baron de B.-W., being of sound mind and body, hereby
declare that the Baron himself was not present. And why? Well, do my readers remember the honest
milk-maid's retort to the coxcomb who said he wouldn't marry her? Good. Then, substituting
"me" for "you," and "he" for "she," the Baron can adopt the maiden's reply. After this, other
reasons would be superfluous.

How came the reporter to fall into so great an error? Who misinformed him? A worthy henchman,
as indignant as was Sam Weller when he found his beloved master's name trifled with, writes
to ask me, "Ain't nobody to be whopped for takin' this here liberty, Sir?" With the immortal
Mr. Pickwick, the Baron replies, "Certainly not. Not on any account." And, whatever that sturdy
henchman may murmur to himself, he at once obeys. "Bring me my books!" cries the Baron, "I
am off to the review."

The Baron's Deputy writes, that he has again been steeping himself in poetry, and reports as
follows:--Ionica (GEORGE ALLEN) is a little volume, which no admirer of true poetry should
fail to possess. The author now calls himself W. CORY, but he was known by a different name
to many generations of Etonians. His Muse generally wears a classical robe, but her speech
is always delightfully musical. She has beautiful cadences, that haunt the memory like some
old Volkslied. In spite of a careless confusion between "thou" and "you," I defy anybody to
read "Heraclitus," to take only one instance, without a sense of pleasure which will compel
him to learn the two verses by heart. But the Muse is pathetic, playful, and patriotic, too,
when the occasion fits, and, whatever she sings, she sings with genuine taste and feeling.
Would that we might hope for more of her pure music. So far the Deputy.

Was that excentric character in David Copperfield nameless, who was represented as sitting
in some sort of slop-shop, wheezing out fiercely, "O my lights and liver! O goroo, goroo!"
I think DICKENS didn't give him a name, good or bad; but his constant repetition of the above
outlandish exclamations has impressed upon him an awful and terrific personality, which places
him among the more popular creations of Dickensian genius. Of what is this à propos? you will
ask the Baron. "Well," he will make reply, "it is à propos of cookery books, and bookery cooks;
the latter being those who are not above teaching themselves from the sacred books of Cookery,
and who can put in practice the lessons they learn therein. Now," quoth the Baron, "let me
recommend you to ask at CHAPMAN AND HALL's for Hilda's 'Where Is It' of Recipes, a work got
up as simply and substantially as a good dinner should be, with 'pages in waiting,' quite blank,
all ready for your notes,--the book, like a dining-table, being appropriately interleaved;
and there is, happy thought, a pencil in the cover-side most handy for the intending Lucullus."
The season of Lent is an excellent one for cookery-books, because you can be studying for the
dinner-giving season, and then--do not forget the generally excellent advice of your friend,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RIVAL "JARVIES;"

OR, THE IRISH JAUNTING CAR.

AIR:--"THE LOW-BACKED CAR."

"Honest John" sings:--

  When first I knew CH-RL-S ST-RT,
    'Twas in a happier day,
  The Jaunting Car he drove in
    Went gaily all the way.
  But now the Car seems all askew,
    Lop-wheel'd, and slack of spring;
  Myself and WILL, in fear of a spill,
    Feel little disposed to sing,
      As we sit on the Jaunting Car,
      The drivers at open war,
        Seem little to care
        For a Grand Old Fare,
      As they fight for the Jaunting Car.

  CH-RL-S ST-RT at one rein, Sir,
    And J-ST-N at the other.
  Give prospect small of progress
    In pummelling one another.
  As Honest JOHN my chance is gone
    Of helping ill-used PAT,
  If the Union of Hearts in Shindy starts,
    And the Message of Peace falls flat.
      WILL and I on the Jaunting Car,
      With the couple of Jarvies at war,
        Are sad to our souls,
        Wherefore win at the polls
      If we lose on the Jaunting Car?

  In battle's wild commotion,
    With proud and hostile SM-TH,
  O'er Land or Tithe, our hearts were blithe,
    Till P-RN-LL sapped our pith.
  But "Mr. Fox's" lethal darts
    Make "Union" all my eye;
  Our ranks they thin (whilst our enemies grin),
    As right and left they fly.
      Though we cling to the Jaunting Car,
      We were better out of it, by far;
        Not the G.O.M.'s art
        Can those Jarvies part
      Who fight for the Jaunting Car.

  I rather like this Car, Sir,
    With GL-DST-NE by my side;
  But row galore is an awful bore.
    When two would-be whips collide.
  With J-ST-N seated forninst us,
    To victory we might haste,
  But with squabbling bhoys, and a deuce of a noise,
    Our efforts are cut to waste.
      Though we're perched on the Jaunting Car,
      Our purpose these madmen mar,
        Whilst W-LL-M and I,
        With a tear and a sigh,
      Hold on to the Jaunting Car.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAR ABOUT PICTURES.--Messrs. J. and W. VOKINS, Great Portland Street, have an interesting loan
collection of some of the Old Giants of the English Water-colour School on view. There may
be found TURNER, DE WINT, WILLIAM HUNT, HOLLAND, COPLEY FIELDING, STANFIELD, MULREADY, J.D.
HARDING, besides many others. How good are the Old Giants, and their works are as bright and
fresh as the day they were painted. Their reputations have not faded, neither have their pictures,
and moreover, they are not likely to. And so say all of us! And so says, Yours paragonically,
OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HUNDRED-AND-TEN-TONNER!

  What is it, that, with labour skilled,
  Though taking full three years to build,
  The place of better weapons filled?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

  What was it, though, that had to stoop,
  When fired, to putting on a hoop,
  Spite this, yet found its muzzle "droop"?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

  And what, that matters made more hot,
  Such curious ammunition got,
  It cost £400 a shot?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

  Yet, much to the tax-payer's bliss,
  What, firing such a sum as this.
  At eighteen hundred yards would miss?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

  What is it, spite the First Lord's grace,
  That guns of better make and case
  At half the cost could well replace?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

  So, what no more upon the deep
  Should JOHN BULL floating useless keep,
  But quickly from his Navy sweep?
        The Hundred-and-Ten-Tonner!

       *       *       *       *       *

PROPOSED TUNNEL BETWEEN ENGLAND AND IRELAND.--An Irishman observed this would bridge over a
lot of difficulties; he begged pardon, he meant it would Leth-bridge them over.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CANDOUR IN COURT.

    [In Savell v. the Duke of Westminster, Lord ESHER, Master
    of the Bolls, said:--"It was the demands for interrogatories
    and discovery of documents and commissions in cases of this
    simple nature which had made the practice of the Common Law so
    expensive, and caused the public to fly from Courts of Law as
    from a pestilence. This oppression must be put down."]

  "How does it hap," quoth ESHER, M.R.,
    "That Solicitors languish for lack of bread?
  That want of cases, as felt by the Bar,
    To cases of want has recently led?
  Oh, how does it come, and why, and whence,
  That men shun the Law as a pestilence?

  "It can't be denied that the public tries
    To avoid an action by every means;
  To a Court it with much reluctance hies,
    And to arbitration madly leans.
  In fact--I say it without offence--
  It shuns the Law as a pestilence.

  "'Tis all the fault," said this great Law Lord,
    "Of demands for inspection, and similar pleas;
  Of expenses that neither side can afford,
    Commissions and interrogator-ees;
  Till Pelion's piled on Ossa--and hence
  Men shun the Law as a pestilence.

  "I call it oppression, and I'm a Judge!
    We must put it down, for the wrong's acute;
  And then the public no fees will grudge,
    But will rush to get suited with a suit;
  For Law, the perfection of common sense,
  Should never be shunned as a pestilence!"

       *       *       *       *       *

KING JOHN AT OXFORD.

The Oxford University Dramatic Society have acted another Shakspearian play with conspicuous
success. To say that the O.U.D.S. have acted a play of SHAKSPEARE is to say nothing, seeing
that they are compelled, under fear of the most dreadful punishments known to the University
Calendar, to confine their histrionic efforts to the drama as SHAKSPEARE wrote it, with an
occasional excursion into the dramatic verse of BROWNING. A great many, however, of the most
influential members of the Hebdomadal Council are said to view any such departure from SHAKSPEARE
with alarm, as calculated to impair the discipline and sap the morality of the tender nurselings
confided to their charge, and it is doubtful if the experiment will be repeated. Long live
the legitimate drama, say I, and so say all of us. But, after all, it may be questioned whether
those who can listen unharmed to the broad, and, if I may say so, "illegitimate" humour of
Faulconbridge in King John would take much damage from SHERIDAN, or LYTTON, or TOM TAYLOR,
or even--though I make this particular suggestion with bated breath--from the performance of
such burlesques as the A.D.C. at Cambridge from time to time offers to its patrons.

All this is, however, by the way. We must take the O.U.D.S. as we find it, and I must confess
I found it in a very strong and flourishing condition during the performance of King John.
The audience is not an easy one to act to. Not that it errs on the side of over-criticism.
Rather it is too painfully friendly and familiar with the actors. Here is a stray example culled
from the Stalls:--

    Enter King PHILIP, the DAUPHIN, and attendant Knights.

Undergraduate in the Stalls (to his Neighbour). Halloa! There's old Johnnie in chain armour
and a helmet. Did you ever see such a rum 'un? Let's make him laugh.

    [They do, and the unfortunate Knight infects his fellow
    Knights at a moment when a specially stern demeanour is
    required.

Or again, as here:--

    The DAUPHIN places his arm round the waist of the Lady
    BLANCH, and conducts her to the back of the stage.

Voice in the Dress Circle. Look out for the Proctor!

    [General laughter.

But in spite of these and similar exuberances, the play went well from first to last, and the
enthusiasm of the audience was unbounded. It was stated on the programme that Mr. HENRY IRVING
had lent the chain-mail and the tapestries. I have come to the conclusion that he lent himself
as well, and then went and pretended he was his own son. At any rate, while Mr. HENRY IRVING
(stated to be of New College) was declaiming as King John, I could have sworn that the impersonator
of Shylock and Macbeth was walking the stage. Voice, gesture, and even mannerisms were there,
toned down, of course, to suit the academic atmosphere, but manifest to all who know and love
the great original. My hearty congratulations to the actor, whoever he was, on a most carefully
studied and dignified rendering of his difficult part. Mr. ALAN MACKINNON, who grouped and
arranged the whole of the play, was vigorous and spirited as Faulconbridge. He delivered his
insults with immense force and go. The letter "r" is not an easy one for him to pronounce,
but he struggled manfully with this obstacle, and after a time I got perfectly accustomed to
the bold tones in which he ordered Austria to "hang a calf-skin chround those chrechreant limbs."
King Philip's legs were, perhaps, too much inclined to independence, and never quite seemed
to have made up their minds where they would settle down, but when once they were fixed the
King was every inch a King. Little Miss MABEL HOARE made us all weep copiously as Arthur. I
have kept Hubert to the last, in order to emphasise my opinion that Mr. CLARK, of New College,
who acted this tender-hearted Chamberlain, carried off the chief honours of the performance.
For consistent and restrained force, it would not have been easy to match Mr. CLARK's impersonation.
Lady RADNOR's band was delightful, in light-blue and pink bows.

The fight in the Second Act was tremendous. Never have I seen such dreadful blows delivered
with such immense vigour on any other stage. A very polite French Knight who had taken part
in the combat accorded me the honour of an interview afterwards. I congratulated him, and suggested
that so realistic a battle must have been long and carefully rehearsed. "Rehearsals!" he laughed;
"not a bit of it. We just lace into one another's heads as hard as we can lick." For the benefit
of Mr. D'OYLY CARTE and other fighting managers I have given these admirable words as they
were spoken.

I had almost forgotten the ladies. There were three, Miss FFYTCHE, Mrs. CHARLES SIM, and Miss
DOWSON, and they were all good--especially Mrs. SIM as Constance.

And so farewell, for the present, to the O.U.D.S. and to Oxford. I may mention, by the way,
that hospitality is as extensive and port wine as abundant as ever in the neighbourhood of
the High. Experto crede. Yours to a turn, A VAGRANT.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SOUTH-AFRICAN SENTIMENT.

(SEE PAPERS PASSIM.)

  The Colossus of Rhodes as a marvel they toss us;
  To which we retort, our RHODES is a Colossus!

       *       *       *       *       *

A READY-MADE MILITARY CHAPLAIN.--"The Rev. the Dean of Battle." Evidently of the Church militant.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PINK OF COURTESY, AND A TRUE BLUE.

Last week a Cambridge Graduate, a Layman, not a Reverend Don, kindly coached the Oxford Eight.
The great Duke of WELLINGTON, courteously instructing the French Army how to defeat the English,
would be an historical parallel. It is to be hoped that this sublime example of unselfish devotion
to aquatic sport will be followed in other walks of life. We may expect to learn from the daily
papers how,--

On Monday a Cabinet Council was held at Downing Street. Lord SALISBURY presided, and Mr. W.H.
SMITH being indisposed, Mr. W.E. GLADSTONE (at a moment's notice) kindly consented to take
his place.

On Tuesday General CAPRIVI went on leave, his place as confidential adviser to the Emperor
of GERMANY being supplied during his absence by Prince Von BISMARCK.

