LXVII.  He neither noticed all their transgressions, nor punished them according to strict
rule.  But for deserters and mutineers he made the most diligent enquiry, and their punishment
was most severe: other delinquencies he would connive at.  Sometimes, after a great battle
ending in victory, he would grant them a relaxation from all kinds of duty, and leave them
to revel at pleasure; being used to boast, "that his soldiers fought nothing the worse for
being well oiled."  In his speeches, he never addressed them by the title of "Soldiers," but
by the kinder phrase of "Fellow-soldiers;" and kept them in such splendid order, that their
arms were ornamented with silver and gold, not merely for parade, but to render the soldiers
more resolute to save them in battle, and fearful of losing them.  He loved his troops to such
a degree, that when he heard of the defeat of those under Titurius, he neither cut his hair
nor shaved his beard, until he had revenged it upon the enemy; by which means he engaged their
devoted affection, and raised their valour to the highest pitch.

LXVIII.  Upon his entering on the civil war, the centurions of every legion offered, each of
them, to maintain a horseman at his own expense, and the whole army agreed to serve gratis,
without either corn or pay; those amongst them who were rich, charging themselves with the
maintenance of the poor.  No one of them, during the whole course of the war, deserted to the
enemy; and many of those who were made prisoners, though they were offered their lives, upon
condition of bearing arms against him, refused to accept the terms.  They endured want, and
other hardships, not only (42) when they were besieged themselves, but when they besieged others,
to such a degree, that Pompey, when blocked up in the neighbourhood of Dyrrachium, upon seeing
a sort of bread made of an herb, which they lived upon, said, "I have to do with wild beasts,"
and ordered it immediately to be taken away; because, if his troops should see it, their spirit
might be broken by perceiving the endurance and determined resolution of the enemy.  With what
bravery they fought, one instance affords sufficient proof; which is, that after an unsuccessful
engagement at Dyrrachium, they called for punishment; insomuch that their general found it
more necessary to comfort than to punish them.  In other battles, in different quarters, they
defeated with ease immense armies of the enemy, although they were much inferior to them in
number.  In short, one cohort of the sixth legion held out a fort against four legions belonging
to Pompey, during several hours; being almost every one of them wounded by the vast number
of arrows discharged against them, and of which there were found within the ramparts a hundred
and thirty thousand. This is no way surprising, when we consider the conduct of some individuals
amongst them; such as that of Cassius Scaeva, a centurion, or Caius Acilius, a common soldier,
not to speak of others.  Scaeva, after having an eye struck out, being run through the thigh
and the shoulder, and having his shield pierced in an hundred and twenty places, maintained
obstinately the guard of the gate of a fort, with the command of which he was intrusted.  Acilius,
in the sea-fight at Marseilles, having seized a ship of the enemy's with his right hand, and
that being cut off, in imitation of that memorable instance of resolution in Cynaegirus amongst
the Greeks, boarded the enemy's ship, bearing down all before him with the boss of his shield.

LXIX.  They never once mutinied during all the ten years of the Gallic war, but were sometimes
refractory in the course of the civil war. However, they always returned quickly to their duty,
and that not through the indulgence, but in submission to the authority, of their general;
for he never yielded to them when they were insubordinate, but constantly resisted their demands.
He disbanded the whole ninth legion with ignominy at Placentia, although Pompey was still in
arms, and would (43) not receive them again into his service, until they had not only made
repeated and humble entreaties, but until the ringleaders in the mutiny were punished.

LXX.  When the soldiers of the tenth legion at Rome demanded their discharge and rewards for
their service, with violent threats and no small danger to the city, although the war was then
raging in Africa, he did not hesitate, contrary to the advice of his friends, to meet the legion,
and disband it.  But addressing them by the title of "Quirites," instead of "Soldiers," he
by this single word so thoroughly brought them round and changed their determination, that
they immediately cried out, they were his "soldiers," and followed him to Africa, although
he had refused their service.  He nevertheless punished the most mutinous among them, with
the loss of a third of their share in the plunder, and the land destined for them.

LXXI.  In the service of his clients, while yet a young man, he evinced great zeal and fidelity.
He defended the cause of a noble youth, Masintha, against king Hiempsal, so strenuously, that
in a scuffle which took place upon the occasion, he seized by the beard the son of king Juba;
and upon Masintha's being declared tributary to Hiempsal, while the friends of the adverse
party were violently carrying him off, he immediately rescued him by force, kept him concealed
in his house a long time, and when, at the expiration of his praetorship, he went to Spain,
he took him away in his litter, in the midst of his lictors bearing the fasces, and others
who had come to attend and take leave of him.

LXXII.  He always treated his friends with such kindness and good-nature, that when Caius Oppius,
in travelling with him through a forest, was suddenly taken ill, he resigned to him the only
place there was to shelter them at night, and lay upon the ground in the open air.  When he
had placed himself at the head of affairs, he advanced some of his faithful adherents, though
of mean extraction, to the highest offices; and when he was censured for this partiality, he
openly said, "Had I been assisted by robbers and cut-throats in the defence of my honour, I
should have made them the same recompense."

(44) LXXIII.  The resentment he entertained against any one was never so implacable that he
did not very willingly renounce it when opportunity offered.  Although Caius Memmius had published
some extremely virulent speeches against him, and he had answered him with equal acrimony,
yet he afterwards assisted him with his vote and interest, when he stood candidate for the
consulship.  When C. Calvus, after publishing some scandalous epigrams upon him, endeavoured
to effect a reconciliation by the intercession of friends, he wrote to him, of his own accord,
the first letter.  And when Valerius Catullus, who had, as he himself observed, fixed such
a stain upon his character in his verses upon Mamurra as never could be obliterated, he begged
his pardon, invited him to supper the same day; and continued to take up his lodging with his
father occasionally, as he had been accustomed to do.

LXXIV.  His temper was also naturally averse to severity in retaliation. After he had captured
the pirates, by whom he had been taken, having sworn that he would crucify them, he did so
indeed; but he first ordered their throats to be cut [84].  He could never bear the thought
of doing any harm to Cornelius Phagitas, who had dogged him in the night when he was sick and
a fugitive, with the design of carrying him to Sylla, and from whose hands he had escaped with
some difficulty by giving him a bribe.  Philemon, his amanuensis, who had promised his enemies
to poison him, he put to death without torture.  When he was summoned as a witness against
Publicus Clodius, his wife Pompeia's gallant, who was prosecuted for the profanation of religious
ceremonies, he declared he knew nothing of the affair, although his mother Aurelia, and his
sister Julia, gave the court an exact and full account of the circumstances.  And being asked
why then he had divorced his wife?  "Because," he said, "my family should not only be free
from guilt, but even from the suspicion of it."

LXXV.  Both in his administration and his conduct towards the vanquished party in the civil
war, he showed a wonderful moderation and clemency. For while Pompey declared that he would
consider those as enemies who did not take arms in defence of the republic, he desired it to
be understood, that he (45) should regard those who remained neuter as his friends. With regard
to all those to whom he had, on Pompey's recommendation, given any command in the army, he
left them at perfect liberty to go over to him, if they pleased.  When some proposals were
made at Ileria [85] for a surrender, which gave rise to a free communication between the two
camps, and Afranius and Petreius, upon a sudden change of resolution, had put to the sword
all Caesar's men who were found in the camp, he scorned to imitate the base treachery which
they had practised against himself. On the field of Pharsalia, he called out to the soldiers
"to spare their fellow-citizens," and afterwards gave permission to every man in his army to
save an enemy.  None of them, so far as appears, lost their lives but in battle, excepting
only Afranius, Faustus, and young Lucius Caesar; and it is thought that even they were put
to death without his consent. Afranius and Faustus had borne arms against him, after obtaining
their pardon; and Lucius Caesar had not only in the most cruel manner destroyed with fire and
sword his freed-men and slaves, but cut to pieces the wild beasts which he had prepared for
the entertainment of the people.  And finally, a little before his death, he permitted all
whom he had not before pardoned, to return into Italy, and to bear offices both civil and military.
He even replaced the statues of Sylla and Pompey, which had been thrown down by the populace.
And after this, whatever was devised or uttered, he chose rather to check than to punish it.
Accordingly, having detected certain conspiracies and nocturnal assemblies, he went no farther
than to intimate by a proclamation that he knew of them; and as to those who indulged themselves
in the liberty of reflecting severely upon him, he only warned them in a public speech not
to persist in their offence.  He bore with great moderation a virulent libel written against
him by Aulus Caecinna, and the abusive lampoons of Pitholaus, most highly reflecting on his
reputation.

LXXVI.  His other words and actions, however, so far outweigh all his good qualities, that
it is thought he abused his power, and was justly cut off.  For he not only obtained excessive
honours, such as the consulship every year, the dictatorship for life, and the censorship,
but also the title of emperor [86], (46) and the surname of FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY [87], besides
having his statue amongst the kings [88], and a lofty couch in the theatre.  He even suffered
some honours to be decreed to him, which were unbefitting the most exalted of mankind; such
as a gilded chair of state in the senate-house and on his tribunal, a consecrated chariot,
and banners in the Circensian procession, temples, altars, statues among the gods, a bed of
state in the temples, a priest, and a college of priests dedicated to himself, like those of
Pan; and that one of the months should be called by his name.  There were, indeed, no honours
which he did not either assume himself, or grant to others, at his will and pleasure.  In his
third and fourth consulship, he used only the title of the office, being content with the power
of dictator, which was conferred upon him with the consulship; and in both years he substituted
other consuls in his room, during the three last months; so that in the intervals he held no
assemblies of the people, for the election of magistrates, excepting only tribunes and ediles
of the people; and appointed officers, under the name of praefects, instead of the praetors,
to administer the affairs of the city during his absence. The office of consul having become
vacant, by the sudden death of one of the consuls the day before the calends of January [the
1st Jan.], he conferred it on a person who requested it of him, for a few hours. Assuming the
same licence, and regardless of the customs of his country, he appointed magistrates to hold
their offices for terms of years.  He granted the insignia of the consular dignity to ten persons
of pretorian rank.  He admitted into the senate some men who had been made free of the city,
and even natives of Gaul, who were semi-barbarians.  (47) He likewise appointed to the management
of the mint, and the public revenue of the state, some servants of his own household; and entrusted
the command of three legions, which he left at Alexandria, to an old catamite of his, the son
of his freed-man Rufinus.

LXXVII.  He was guilty of the same extravagance in the language he publicly used, as Titus
Ampius informs us; according to whom he said, "The republic is nothing but a name, without
substance or reality.  Sylla was an ignorant fellow to abdicate the dictatorship.  Men ought
to consider what is becoming when they talk with me, and look upon what I say as a law."  To
such a pitch of arrogance did he proceed, that when a soothsayer announced to him the unfavourable
omen, that the entrails of a victim offered for sacrifice were without a heart, he said, "The
entrails will be more favourable when I please; and it ought not to be regarded as a prodigy
that a beast should be found wanting a heart."

LXXVIII.  But what brought upon him the greatest odium, and was thought an unpardonable insult,
was his receiving the whole body of the conscript fathers sitting, before the temple of Venus
Genitrix, when they waited upon him with a number of decrees, conferring on him the highest
dignities.  Some say that, on his attempting to rise, he was held down by Cornelius Balbus;
others, that he did not attempt to rise at all, but frowned on Caius Trebatius, who suggested
to him that he should stand up to receive the senate.  This behaviour appeared the more intolerable
in him, because, when one of the tribunes of the people, Pontius Aquila, would not rise up
to him, as he passed by the tribunes' seat during his triumph, he was so much offended, that
he cried out, "Well then, you tribune, Aquila, oust me from the government."  And for some
days afterwards, he never promised a favour to any person, without this proviso, "if Pontus
Aquila will give me leave."

LXXIX.  To this extraordinary mark of contempt for the senate, he added another affront still
more outrageous.  For when, after the sacred rites of the Latin festival, he was returning
home, amidst the immoderate and unusual acclamations (48) of the people, a man in the crowd
put a laurel crown, encircled with a white fillet [89], on one of his statues; upon which,
the tribunes of the people, Epidius Marullus, and Caesetius Flavus, ordered the fillet to be
removed from the crown, and the man to be taken to prison.  Caesar, being much concerned either
that the idea of royalty had been suggested to so little purpose, or, as was said, that he
was thus deprived of the merit of refusing it, reprimanded the tribunes very severely, and
dismissed them from their office.  From that day forward, he was never able to wipe off the
scandal of affecting the name of king, although he replied to the populace, when they saluted
him by that title, "I am Caesar, and no king."  And at the feast of the Lupercalia [90], when
the consul Antony placed a crown upon his head in the rostra several times, he as often put
it away, and sent it to the Capitol for Jupiter, the Best and the Greatest.  A report was very
current, that he had a design of withdrawing to Alexandria or Ilium, whither he proposed to
transfer the imperial power, to drain Italy by new levies, and to leave the government of the
city to be administered by his friends.  To this report it was added, that in the next meeting
of the senate, Lucius Cotta, one of the fifteen [91], would make a motion, that as there was
in the Sibylline books a prophecy, that the Parthians would never be subdued but by a king,
Caesar should have that title conferred upon him.

LXXX.  For this reason the conspirators precipitated the execution of their design [92], that
they might not be obliged to give their assent to the proposal.  Instead, therefore, of caballing
any longer separately, in small parties, they now united their counsels; the people themselves
being dissatisfied with the present state of affairs, both privately and publicly (49) condemning
the tyranny under which they lived, and calling on patriots to assert their cause against the
usurper.  Upon the admission of foreigners into the senate, a hand-bill was posted up in these
words: "A good deed! let no one shew a new senator the way to the house."  These verses were
likewise currently repeated:

    The Gauls he dragged in triumph through the town,
    Caesar has brought into the senate-house,
    And changed their plaids [93] for the patrician gown.

    Gallos Caesar in triumphum ducit: iidem in curiam
    Galli braccas deposuerunt, latum clavum sumpserunt.

When Quintus Maximus, who had been his deputy in the consulship for the last three months,
entered the theatre, and the lictor, according to custom, bid the people take notice who was
coming, they all cried out, "He is no consul."  After the removal of Caesetius and Marullus
from their office, they were found to have a great many votes at the next election of consuls.
Some one wrote under the statue of Lucius Brutus, "Would you were now alive!" and under the
statue of Caesar himself these lines:

    Because he drove from Rome the royal race,
    Brutus was first made consul in their place.
    This man, because he put the consuls down,
    Has been rewarded with a royal crown.

    Brutus, quia reges ejecit, consul primus factus est:
    Hic, quia consules ejecit, rex postremo factus est.

About sixty persons were engaged in the conspiracy against him, of whom Caius Cassius, and
Marcus and Decimus Brutus were the chief.  It was at first debated amongst them, whether they
should attack him in the Campus Martius when he was taking the votes of the tribes, and some
of them should throw him off the bridge, whilst others should be ready to stab him upon his
fall; or else in the Via Sacra, or at the entrance of the theatre.  But after public notice
had been given by proclamation for the senate to assemble upon the ides of March [15th March],
in the senate-house built by Pompey, they approved both of the time and place, as most fitting
for their purpose.

LXXXI.  Caesar had warning given him of his fate by indubitable (50) omens.  A few months before,
when the colonists settled at Capua, by virtue of the Julian law, were demolishing some old
sepulchres, in building country-houses, and were the more eager at the work, because they discovered
certain vessels of antique workmanship, a tablet of brass was found in a tomb, in which Capys,
the founder of Capua, was said to have been buried, with an inscription in the Greek language
to this effect "Whenever the bones of Capys come to be discovered, a descendant of Iulus will
be slain by the hands of his kinsmen, and his death revenged by fearful disasters throughout
Italy."  Lest any person should regard this anecdote as a fabulous or silly invention, it was
circulated upon the authority of Caius Balbus, an intimate friend of Caesar's.  A few days
likewise before his death, he was informed that the horses, which, upon his crossing the Rubicon,
he had consecrated, and turned loose to graze without a keeper, abstained entirely from eating,
and shed floods of tears.  The soothsayer Spurinna, observing certain ominous appearances in
a sacrifice which he was offering, advised him to beware of some danger, which threatened to
befall him before the ides of March were past.  The day before the ides, birds of various kinds
from a neighbouring grove, pursuing a wren which flew into Pompey's senate-house [94], with
a sprig of laurel in its beak, tore it in pieces.  Also, in the night on which the day of his
murder dawned, he dreamt at one time that he was soaring above the clouds, and, at another,
that he had joined hands with Jupiter.  His wife Calpurnia fancied in her sleep that the pediment
of the house was falling down, and her husband stabbed on her bosom; immediately upon which
the chamber doors flew open.  On account of these omens, as well as his infirm health, he was
in some doubt whether he should not remain at home, and defer to some other opportunity the
business which he intended to propose to the senate; but Decimus Brutus advising him not to
disappoint the senators, who were numerously assembled, and waited his coming, he was prevailed
upon to go, and accordingly (51) set forward about the fifth hour.  In his way, some person
having thrust into his hand a paper, warning him against the plot, he mixed it with some other
documents which he held in his left hand, intending to read it at leisure.  Victim after victim
was slain, without any favourable appearances in the entrails; but still, disregarding all
omens, he entered the senate-house, laughing at Spurinna as a false prophet, because the ides
of March were come, without any mischief having befallen him.  To which the soothsayer replied,
"They are come, indeed, but not past."

LXXXII.  When he had taken his seat, the conspirators stood round him, under colour of paying
their compliments; and immediately Tullius Cimber, who had engaged to commence the assault,
advancing nearer than the rest, as if he had some favour to request, Caesar made signs that
he should defer his petition to some other time.  Tullius immediately seized him by the toga,
on both shoulders; at which Caesar crying out, "Violence is meant!" one of the Cassii wounded
him a little below the throat.  Caesar seized him by the arm, and ran it through with his style
[95]; and endeavouring to rush forward was stopped by another wound.  Finding himself now attacked
on all hands with naked poniards, he wrapped the toga [96] about his head, and at the same
moment drew the skirt round his legs with his left hand, that he might fall more decently with
the lower part of his body covered.  He was stabbed with three and twenty wounds, uttering
a groan only, but no cry, at the first wound; although some authors relate, that when Marcus
Brutus fell upon him, he exclaimed, "What! art thou, too, one of them?  Thou, my son!" [97]
The whole assembly instantly (52) dispersing, he lay for some time after he expired, until
three of his slaves laid the body on a litter, and carried it home, with one arm hanging down
over the side.  Among so many wounds, there was none that was mortal, in the opinion of the
surgeon Antistius, except the second, which he received in the breast.  The conspirators meant
to drag his body into the Tiber as soon as they had killed him; to confiscate his estate, and
rescind all his enactments; but they were deterred by fear of Mark Antony, and Lepidus, Caesar's
master of the horse, and abandoned their intentions.

LXXXIII.  At the instance of Lucius Piso, his father-in-law, his will was opened and read in
Mark Antony's house.  He had made it on the ides [13th] of the preceding September, at his
Lavican villa, and committed it to the custody of the chief of the Vestal Virgins.  Quintus
Tubero informs us, that in all the wills he had signed, from the time of his first consulship
to the breaking out of the civil war, Cneius Pompey was appointed his heir, and that this had
been publicly notified to the army. But in his last will, he named three heirs, the grandsons
of his sisters; namely, Caius Octavius for three fourths of his estate, and Lucius Pinarius
and Quintus Pedius for the remaining fourth.  Other heirs [in remainder] were named at the
close of the will, in which he also adopted Caius Octavius, who was to assume his name, into
his family; and nominated most of those who were concerned in his death among the guardians
of his son, if he should have any; as well as Decimus Brutus amongst his heirs of the second
order.  Be bequeathed to the Roman people his gardens near the Tiber, and three hundred sesterces
each man.

LXXXIV.  Notice of his funeral having been solemnly proclaimed, a pile was erected in the Campus
Martius, near the tomb of his daughter Julia; and before the Rostra was placed a gilded tabernacle,
on the model of the temple of Venus Genitrix; within which was an ivory bed, covered with purple
and cloth of gold.  At the head was a trophy, with the [bloodstained] robe in which he was
slain.  It being considered that the whole day would not suffice for carrying the funeral oblations
in solemn procession before the corpse, directions were given for every one, without regard
to order, to carry them from the city into the Campus Martius, by what way they pleased.  To
raise pity and indignation for his murder, in the plays acted at the funeral, a passage was
sung from Pacuvius's tragedy, entitled, "The Trial for Arms:"

    That ever I, unhappy man, should save
    Wretches, who thus have brought me to the grave! [98]

And some lines also from Attilius's tragedy of "Electra," to the same effect.  Instead of a
funeral panegyric, the consul Antony ordered a herald to proclaim to the people the decree
of the senate, in which they had bestowed upon him all honours, divine and human; with the
oath by which they had engaged themselves for the defence of his person; and to these he added
only a few words of his own.  The magistrates and others who had formerly filled the highest
offices, carried the bier from the Rostra into the Forum.  While some proposed that the body
should be burnt in the sanctuary of the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, and others in Pompey's
senate-house; on a sudden, two men, with swords by their sides, and spears in their hands,
set fire to the bier with lighted torches. The throng around immediately heaped upon it dry
faggots, the tribunals and benches of the adjoining courts, and whatever else came to hand.
Then the musicians and players stripped off the dresses they wore on the present occasion,
taken from the wardrobe of his triumph at spectacles, rent them, and threw them into the flames.
The legionaries, also, of his (54) veteran bands, cast in their armour, which they had put
on in honour of his funeral.  Most of the ladies did the same by their ornaments, with the
bullae [99], and mantles of their children.  In this public mourning there joined a multitude
of foreigners, expressing their sorrow according to the fashion of their respective countries;
but especially the Jews [100], who for several nights together frequented the spot where the
body was burnt.

LXXXV.  The populace ran from the funeral, with torches in their hands, to the houses of Brutus
and Cassius, and were repelled with difficulty. Going in quest of Cornelius Cinna, who had
in a speech, the day before, reflected severely upon Caesar, and mistaking for him Helvius
Cinna, who happened to fall into their hands, they murdered the latter, and carried his head
about the city on the point of a spear.  They afterwards erected in the Forum a column of Numidian
marble, formed of one stone nearly twenty feet high, and inscribed upon it these words, TO
THE FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY.  At this column they continued for a long time to offer sacrifices,
make vows, and decide controversies, in which they swore by Caesar.

LXXXVI.  Some of Caesar's friends entertained a suspicion, that he neither desired nor cared
to live any longer, on account of his declining health; and for that reason slighted all the
omens of religion, and the warnings of his friends.  Others are of opinion, that thinking himself
secure in the late decree of the senate, and their oaths, he dismissed his Spanish guards who
attended him with drawn swords.  Others again suppose, that he chose rather to face at once
the dangers which threatened him on all sides, than to be for ever on the watch against them.
Some tell us that he used to say, the commonwealth was more interested in the safety of his
person than himself: for that he had for some time been satiated with power and glory; but
that the commonwealth, if any thing should befall him, would have no rest, and, involved in
another civil war, would be in a worse state than before.

(55) LXXXVII.  This, however, was generally admitted, that his death was in many respects such
as he would have chosen.  For, upon reading the account delivered by Xenophon, how Cyrus in
his last illness gave instructions respecting his funeral, Caesar deprecated a lingering death,
and wished that his own might be sudden and speedy.  And the day before he died, the conversation
at supper, in the house of Marcus Lepidus, turning upon what was the most eligible way of dying,
he gave his opinion in favour of a death that is sudden and unexpected.

LXXXVIII.  He died in the fifty-sixth year of his age, and was ranked amongst the Gods, not
only by a formal decree, but in the belief of the vulgar.  For during the first games which
Augustus, his heir, consecrated to his memory, a comet blazed for seven days together, rising
always about eleven o'clock; and it was supposed to be the soul of Caesar, now received into
heaven: for which reason, likewise, he is represented on his statue with a star on his brow.
The senate-house in which he was slain, was ordered to be shut up [101], and a decree made
that the ides of March should be called parricidal, and the senate should never more assemble
on that day.

LXXXIX.  Scarcely any of those who were accessary to his murder, survived him more than three
years, or died a natural death [102].  They were all condemned by the senate: some were taken
off by one accident, some by another.  Part of them perished at sea, others fell in battle;
and some slew themselves with the same poniard with which they had stabbed Caesar [103].

(56) [104] The termination of the civil war between Caesar and Pompey forms a new epoch in
the Roman History, at which a Republic, which had subsisted with unrivalled glory during a
period of about four hundred and sixty years, relapsed into a state of despotism, whence it
never more could emerge.  So sudden a transition from prosperity to the ruin of public freedom,
without the intervention of any foreign enemy, excites a reasonable conjecture, that the constitution
in which it could take place, however vigorous in appearance, must have lost that soundness
of political health which had enabled it to endure through so many ages.  A short view of its
preceding state, and of that in which it was at the time of the revolution now mentioned, will
best ascertain the foundation of such a conjecture.

Though the Romans, upon the expulsion of Tarquin, made an essential change in the political
form of the state, they did not carry their detestation of regal authority so far as to abolish
the religious institutions of Numa Pompilius, the second of their kings, according to which,
the priesthood, with all the influence annexed to that order, was placed in the hands of the
aristocracy.  By this wise policy a restraint was put upon the fickleness and violence of the
people in matters of government, and a decided superiority given to the Senate both in the
deliberative and executive parts of administration.  This advantage was afterwards indeed diminished
by the creation of Tribunes of the people; a set of men whose ambition often embroiled the
Republic in civil dissensions, and who at last abused their authority to such a degree, that
they became instruments of aggrandizement to any leading men in the state who could purchase
their friendship.  In general, however, the majority of the Tribunes being actuated by views
which comprehended the interests of the multitude, rather than those of individuals, they did
not so much endanger the liberty, as they interrupted the tranquillity, of the public; and
when the occasional commotions subsided, there remained no permanent ground for the establishment
of personal usurpation.

In every government, an object of the last importance to the peace and welfare of society is
the morals of the people; and in proportion as a community is enlarged by propagation, or the
accession of a multitude of new members, a more strict attention is requisite to guard against
that dissolution of manners to which a crowded and extensive capital has a natural tendency.
Of this (57) the Romans became sensible in the growing state of the Republic.  In the year
of the City 312, two magistrates were first created for taking an account of the number of
the people, and the value of their estates; and soon after, they were invested with the authority
not only of inspecting the morals of individuals, but of inflicting public censure for any
licentiousness of conduct, or violation of decency.  Thus both the civil and religious institutions
concurred to restrain the people within the bounds of good order and obedience to the laws;
at the same time that the frugal life of the ancient Romans proved a strong security against
those vices which operate most effectually towards sapping the foundations of a state.

But in the time of Julius Caesar the barriers of public liberty were become too weak to restrain
the audacious efforts of ambitious and desperate men.  The veneration for the constitution,
usually a powerful check to treasonable designs, had been lately violated by the usurpations
of Marius and Sylla.  The salutary terrors of religion no longer predominated over the consciences
of men.  The shame of public censure was extinguished in general depravity.  An eminent historian,
who lived at that time, informs us, that venality universally prevailed amongst the Romans;
and a writer who flourished soon after, observes, that luxury and dissipation had encumbered
almost all so much with debt, that they beheld with a degree of complacency the prospect of
civil war and confusion.

