Early in her career, Henry made Diana Duchesse de Valentinois. So powerful did she become that
Sieur de Bayard, secretary of state, having referred in jest to her age (she was twenty years
the king's senior), was deprived of his office, thrown into prison, and left to die. In her
management of Queen Catherine, Diana was most politic; she never interfered, but constituted
herself "the protectress of the legitimate wife, settling all questions concerning the newly
born," for which she received a large salary. When, while the king was in Italy, the queen
became ill, she owed her recovery to the watchful care of the mistress. The latter appointed
to the vacant estates and positions members of her house—that of Guise. In time, this house
gained such an ascendency that it conceived the project of setting aside all the princes of
the blood royal.

Having (through one of her favorites) gained control of the royal treasury, Diana appropriated
everything—lands, money, jewels. Her influence was so astonishing to the people that she was
accused of wielding a magic power and bewitching the king who seemed, verily, to be leading
an enchanted existence; he had but one thought, one aim—that of pleasing and obeying his aged
mistress. To make amends for his adultery, he concluded to extirpate heretics. Such a combination
of luxury and extravagance with licentiousness and brutality, such wholesale murder, persecution,
and burning at the stake have never been equalled, except under Nero.

Michelet reveals the character of Diana in these words: "Affected by nothing, loving nothing,
sympathizing with nothing; of the passions retaining only those which will give a little rapidity
to the blood; of the pleasures preferring those that are mild and without violence—the love
of gain and the pursuit of money; hence, there was absence of soul. Another phase was the cultivation
of the body, the body and its beauty uniquely cared for by virile treatment and a rigid régime
which is the guardian of life—not weakly adored as by women who kill themselves by excessive
self-love." M. Saint-Amand continues, after quoting the above: "At all seasons of the year,
Diana plunges into a cold bath on rising. As soon as day breaks, she mounts a horse, and, followed
by swift hounds, rides through dewy verdure to her royal lover to whom—fascinated by her mythological
pomp—she seems no more a woman but a goddess. Thus he styles her in verses of burning tenderness:

  "'Hélas, mon Dieu! combien je regrette
  Le temps que j'ai perdu en ma jeunesse!
  Combien de fois je me suis souhaité
  Avoir Diane pour ma seule maîtresse.
  Mais je craignais qu'elle, qui est déesse,
  Ne se voulût abaisser jusque là.'"

[Alas, my God! how much I regret the time lost in my youth! How often have I longed to have
Diana for my only mistress! But I feared that she who is a goddess would not stoop so low as that.]

Catherine remained quietly in the palace, preferring her position, unpleasant as it was, to
the persecution and possible incarceration in a convent which would result from any interference
on her part between the king and his mistress. Without power or privileges, she was a mere
figurehead—a good mother looking after her family. However, she was not idle; without taking
part in the intrigues, she was studying them—planning her future tactics; in all relations
she was diplomatic, her conversation ever displaying exquisite tact.

While France groaned under the burdens of seemingly interminable wars and exorbitant taxes,
her king revelled in excessive luxury; the aim of his favorite mistress seemed to be to acquire
wealth and spend it lavishly for her own pleasure. Voluptuousness, cruelty, and extravagance
were the keynotes of the time. All means were used to procure revenues, the king easing any
pangs of conscience by burning a few heretics whose estates were then quickly confiscated.

Diana, even at the age of sixty, still held Henry in her toils; an easy prey for the wiles
of the flatterer, he was kept in ignorance of the hatred and anger heaping up against him.
In the midst of riotous festivity, Henry II. died, a victim of the lance of Montgomery; and
the twelve years' reign of debauchery, cruelty, and shameless extravagance came to an end.

Whatever else may be said of Diana, she proved to be a liberal patroness of art and letters;
this was possible for her, since, in addition to inherited wealth and the gifts of lands and
jewels from the king, she procured the possessions of many heretics whose confiscated wealth
was assigned to her as a faithful servant and supporter of the church.

Her hotel at Anet was one of the most elaborate, tasteful, and elegant in all France; there
the finest specimens of Italian sculpture, painting, and woodwork were to be seen. The king,
upon making her a duchess, presented her with the beautiful château of Chenonceaux, which was
so much coveted by Catherine. The latter attempted to make Diana pay for the château, thus
interrupting her plans for building; upon discovering this, Henry sent his own artists and
workmen to carry out Diana's desires. Such was the power of his mistress over the weak king
that he respected her wishes far more than he did those of his queen. This was one of those
instances in which Catherine saw fit to remain silent and plan revenge.

The death of Diana of Poitiers was that common to all women of her position. She died in 1566,
forgotten by the world—her world. In her will she made "provision for religious houses, to
be opened to women of evil lives, as if, in the depth of her conscience, she had recognized
the likeness between their destiny and her own." Like the former mistresses, she had been required
to give up the jewels received from Henry II.; but as this order was from Francis II. instead
of from his mistress, the gems were returned to the crown after having passed successively
through the hands of three mistresses.

Catherine's time had not yet come, for she dared not interfere when Mary Stuart (a beautiful,
inexperienced, and impetuous girl of seventeen) gained ascendency over Francis II.—a mere boy.
The house of Guise was then supreme and began its bloody campaign against its enemies; fortunately,
however, its power was short-lived, for in 1560 the king died after reigning only seventeen
months. At this point, Catherine enters upon the scene of action. Jealous of Mary Stuart and
fearing that the young king, Charles IX., then but ten years old, might become infatuated with
her and marry her, she promptly returned the fair young woman to Scotland.

The task before the regent was no light one; her kingdom was divided against itself, the country
was overburdened with taxes, and discontent reigned universally. All who surrounded her were
full of prejudice and actuated solely by personal aspirations—she realized that she could trust
no one.

Her first act of a political nature was to rescue the house of Valois and solidify the royal
authority. Some critics maintain that she began her reign with moderation, gentleness, impartiality,
and reconciliation. This view finds support in the fact that during the first years she favored
Protestantism; finding, however, that the latter was weakening royal power and that the country
at large was opposed to it, she became its most bitter enemy. To the Protestants and their
plottings she attributed all the disastrous effects of the civil war, all thefts, murders,
incests, and adulteries, as well as the profanation of the sepulchres of the ancestors of the
royal family, the burning of the bones of Louis XI. and of the heart of Francis II.

The Machiavellian policy was Catherine's guide; bitter experience had robbed her of all faith
in humanity—she had learned to despise it and the judgment of her contemporaries. At first
she was amiable and polite, seemingly intent upon pleasing those with whom she talked; in fact,
it is said that she was then more often accused of excessive mildness and moderation than of
the violence and cruelty which later characterized her. Experience having taught her how to
deal with people, she never lost her self-control.

Subsequent history shows that any gentle and conciliatory policy of Catherine was merely a
method of furthering her own interests, and was therefore not the outcome of any inborn feeling
of sympathy or womanly tenderness. Whether her signing of the Edict of Saint-Germain, admitting
the Protestants to all employments and granting them the privilege of Calvinistic worship in
two cities of every province, and her refusal, upon the urgent solicitations of her son-in-law,
Philip II., to persecute heretics were really snares laid for the Huguenots, is a matter which
historians have not decided.

Inasmuch as the entire history of France plays about the personality of Catherine de' Medici,
no attempt will be made to give a detailed chronological account of her career; the results,
rather than the events themselves, will be given. M. Saint-Amand, in his work on French Women
of the Valois Court, presents one of the strongest pictures drawn of Catherine. We shall follow
him in the greater part of this sketch.

According to some historians, Catherine was a mere intriguer, without talent or ability, living
but in the moment, often caught in her own snares; according to others, by her intelligence,
ability, and strength of character she advanced a cause truly national—that of French unity;
thus, she worked either the ruin or the salvation of France. Michelet calls her a nonentity,
a stage queen with merely the externals—the attire—of royalty, remaining exactly on a level
with the rulers of the smaller Italian principalities, contriving everything and fearing everything,
with no more heart than she had sense or temperament. Being a female, she loved her young;
she loved the arts, but cared to cultivate only their externalities. In this, however, Michelet
goes to an extreme; for no woman ever lived who had so great a talent for intrigues and politics
as she—a very type of the deceit and cunning which were inherent in her race. If she were not
important, had not wielded so much influence and decided the fate of so many great men, women,
and even states, she would not be the subject of so much writing, of such fierce denunciation
and strong praise. To her family, France owes her finest palaces, her masterpieces of art—painting,
bookmaking, printing, binding, sculpture.

M. Saint-Amand declares that "isolated from her contemporaries, Catherine de' Medici is a monster;
brought back within the circle of their passions and their theories, she once more becomes
a woman." But Catherine was the instigator, the embodiment of all that is vice, deceit, cunning,
trickery, wickedness, and bold intrigue; she set the example, and her ladies followed her in
all that she did; "the heroines bred in her school (and what woman was not in her school?)
imitate, with docility, the examples she gives them." She was not only the type of her civilization,—brutal,
gross, immoral, elegant, polished, and mondain,—but she was also its leader.

Greatness of soul, real moral force, strict virtue, are not attributes of the sixteenth-century
woman—they are isolated and rare exceptions; these Catherine did not possess. Nor was she influenced
deeply by her environments; the latter but encouraged and developed those qualities which were
hers inherently,—will, intelligence, inflexible perseverance, tenacity of purpose, unscrupulousness,
cruelty; hence, to say "She is the victim rather than the inspiration of the corruption of
her time" is misleading, to say the least. If, upon her arrival at court, "she at once pleased
every one by her grace and affability, modest air, and, above all, by her extreme gentleness,"
she could not have changed, say her defenders, into the perfidious, wicked, and cruel creature
she is said to have become as soon as she stepped into power. "During the reign of Henry II.,
she wisely avoided all danger; faithful to her wifely duties, she gave no cause for scandal,
and, realizing that she was not strong enough to overcome her all-powerful rival, she bided
her time. She was loved and respected by everyone for her personal qualities and her benevolence."
But why may it not be true that all this was but part of her politics, the politics in which
she had been educated? Wise from experience, she foresaw the future and what was in store for
her if she remained prudent and made the best of the surroundings until the time should come
when she could strike suddenly and boldly.

Brought up from infancy amidst snares, intrigues, the clash of arms, the furious shouts of
popular insurrections, tempests, and storms, she could not escape the influence of her early
environment. Her talent for studying and penetrating the designs of her enemies, for facing
or avoiding dangers with such sublime calmness and prudence, was partly inherited, partly acquired.
That spirit she took with her to France, where her experience was widened and her opportunities
for the study of human nature were increased.

It is not generally known that her mother was a French woman—a Madeleine de La Tour d'Auvergne,
daughter of Jean, Count of Boulogne, and Catherine of Bourbon, daughter of the Count of Vendôme;
thus, her gentler nature was a French product. Her mother and father both died when she was
but twenty-two days old, and from that time until her marriage she was cast about from place
to place. But from the very first she showed that talent of adapting herself to her surroundings,
living amidst intrigues and discords and yet making friends. She has been called "the precocious
heiress of the craftiness of her progenitors."

In her thirteenth year, after being sought by many powerful princes, Clement VII. (her greatuncle),
in order to secure himself against the powerful Charles V., married her to Henry, Duke of Orleans,
the second son of Francis I. Even at that early age she was fully aware of all the dreariness
and danger attached to positions of power, and knew that the art of governing was not an easy
one. She had studied Machiavelli's famous work, The Prince, which had been dedicated to her
father, and it was from it, as well as from her ancestors, that she derived her wisdom and
astuteness. Her childhood had prepared her for the work of the future, and she went at it with
caution and reserve until she was sure of her ground.

She first proceeded to study the king, Francis I., watching his actions, extracting his secrets;
a fine huntress and at his side constantly, she pleased him and gained his favor. Brantôme
says she was subtle and diplomatic, quickly learning the craft of her profession; she sought
friends among all classes and ranks, directing her overtures specially toward the ladies of
the court, whom she soon won and gathered about her.

In 1536 the dauphin died, and Catherine's husband became heir to the throne of France. Though
they had been married three years, no offspring had resulted, which unfortunate circumstance
made her position a most uncertain one, especially as Diana of Poitiers was then at the height
of her power, controlling Henry absolutely. A furious rivalry sprang up between the Duchesse
d'Etampes, mistress of Francis I., and Diana and Catherine; the two mistresses formed two parties,
and a war of slanders, calumnies, and unpleasant epigrams ensued. Queen Eleanor, the second
wife of Francis I., took no active part, thus leaving all power in the hands of the mistress
of her husband. (It was at this time that the Emperor Charles V. gained the Duchesse d'Etampes
over to his cause.) Poets and artists, politicians and men of genius took sides, extolling
the beauty of the one they championed. Catherine, although befriended and treated with apparent
respect by Diana, remained a good friend to both women, thus evincing her tact. By keeping
her own personality in the background, she won the esteem of both her husband and the king.

Brantôme leaves a picture of Catherine at this time: "She was a fine and ample figure; very
majestic, yet agreeable and very gentle when necessary; beautiful and gracious in appearance,
her face fair and her throat white and full, very white in body likewise.... Moreover, she
dressed superbly, always having some pretty innovation. In brief, she had beauties fitted to
inspire love. She laughed readily, her disposition was jovial, and she liked to jest." M. Saint-Amand
continues: "The artistic elegance that surrounded her whole person, the tranquil and benevolent
expression of her countenance, the good taste of her dress, the exquisite distinction of her
manners, all contributed to her charm. And then she was so humble in the presence of her husband!
She so carefully avoided whatever might have the semblance of reproach! She closed her eyes
with such complaisance! Henry told himself that it would be difficult to find another woman
so well-disposed, another wife so faithful to her duties, another princess so accomplished
in point of instruction and intelligence. The ménage à trois (household of three) was continued,
therefore, and if the dauphin loved his mistress, he certainly had a friendship for his wife.
And, on her part, whenever she felt an inclination to complain of her lot, Catherine bethought
herself that if she quitted her position she would probably find no refuge but the cloister,
and that—taking it all around—the court of France (in spite of the humiliations and vexations
one might experience there) was an abode more desirable than a convent;" this, then, is the
secret of her submission. In spite of her beauty, mildness, and distinction of manner, she
could not overcome the prestige of Diana.

After nine years, Catherine was still without children and began to fear the fate in store
for her; but when she gave birth to a son in 1543, she felt assured that divorce no longer
threatened her and she resolved that as soon as she came into power she would be revenged upon
her enemies and Diana of Poitiers. When, in 1547, her husband succeeded his father as King
of France, she did not feel that the time had yet arrived to interfere in any social or domestic
arrangements or affairs of state; not until ten years later did she show the first sign of
remarkable statesmanship or ability as a politician.

After the battle and capture of Saint-Quentin, France was in a most deplorable state; the enemy
was believed to be beneath the walls of Paris; everybody was fleeing; the king had gone to
Compiègne to muster a new army. Catherine was alone in Paris "and of her own free will went
to the Parliament in full state, accompanied by the cardinals, princes, and princesses; and
there, in the most impressive language, she set forth the urgent state of affairs at the moment....
With so much sentiment and eloquence that she touched the heart of everybody, the queen then
explained to the Parliament that the king had need of three hundred thousand livres, twenty-five
thousand to be paid every two months; and she added that she would retire from the place of
session, so as not to interfere with the liberty of discussion; accordingly, she retired to
another room. A resolution to comply with the wishes of her majesty was voted, and the queen,
having resumed her place, received a promise to that effect. A hundred nobles of the city offered
to give at once three thousand francs apiece. The queen thanked them in the sweetest form of
words, and thus terminated this session of Parliament—with so much applause for her majesty
and such lively marks of satisfaction at her behavior, that no idea can be given of them. Throughout
the city, nothing was spoken of but the queen's prudence and the happy manner in which she
proceeded in this enterprise" (Guizot). From this act dates Catherine's entrance into political
consideration.

During the reign of Francis II., Catherine de' Medici exercised no influence at court, the
king being completely under the dominion of his wife and the Duke of Guise, who was not favorable
to the queen-mother's schemes and policies. Catherine, however, was plotting; caring little
about religion so long as it did not further her plans, she connected herself with the Huguenots;
her scheme was to bring the Guises to destruction and to form a council of regency which, while
composed of the Huguenot leaders, was to be under her guidance. As this plan failed, bringing
ruin to many princes, she deserted the Huguenots and allied herself with the Catholics.

She is next found attempting the assassination of the Duke of Condé, but she failed to accomplish
that crime because her son, the king, refused his consent. Soon after, Francis II. died, it
is said from the effect of poison dropped into his ear while he was sleeping; it is probable
that this crime was committed at the instigation of the mother, since by his death and the
accession of Charles IX. she became regent (1560). She was then all-powerful and in a position
to exercise her long dormant talents.

Her first plan was to incapacitate all her children by plunging them "into such licentious
pleasure and voluptuous dissipation that they were speedily unfitted for mental activity or
exertion." Most unprejudiced historians credit her with the Massacre of Saint Bartholomew;
she is said to have boasted about it to Catholic governments and excused it to Protestant powers.
For a number of years, she had been planning the destruction of the Huguenot princes, and as
early as 1565 she and Charles IX. had an interview with the Duke of Alva (representative of
Philip II), to consult as to the means of delivering France from heretics. It was decided that
"this great blessing could not have accomplishment save by the deaths of all the leaders of
the Huguenots."

That fearful crime, the bloody Massacre of Saint Bartholomew, is familiar to everyone. The
only excuse offered for this most heinous of Catherine's many offences is her intense sentiment
of national unity; the actual reason for it is to be sought in the fact that as long as the
Protestants retained their prestige and influence, Catherine and her Catholic party could not
do as they pleased, could not gain absolute control over the government. History holds her
more responsible than it does her weak son. The climax came on the occasion of the wedding
of Marguerite of Valois with the Prince of Navarre, which meant the union of the branches—the
Catholic and the Protestant. This resulted in the first breach between the king and Catherine;
the latter at that time perpetrated one of her dastardly deeds by poisoning the mother of the
Prince of Navarre—Jeanne d'Albret, her bitter enemy.

After the death of Charles IX., Henry III. was the sole survivor of the four sons of Catherine.
Although her power was limited during his reign, she managed to continue her murderous plans
and accomplished the death of Henry of Guise and his brother the cardinal, which crime united
the majority of the Catholics of France against the king and was the cause of his assassination
in 1589. This ended the power of Catherine de' Medici; when she died, no one rejoiced, no one
lamented. Wherever she had turned her eyes, she had seen nothing but occasions for uneasiness
and sadness; she had retired from court, feeling her helplessness and disgrace as well as the
decline in power of that son in whom her hopes were centred. She decided to reënter the scene
of action and save Henry. The stormy scenes of the Barricades and the League and the murder
of the Duke of Guise hastened her death, which occurred in 1589.

Catherine de' Medici may rightfully be called the initiator and organizer of social and court
etiquette and courtesy—of conventional and social laws. However great her political activity,
she made herself deeply felt in the social and moral worlds also. She taught her husband the
secret of being king; she introduced the lever audience; in the afternoon of every day, she
held a reunion of all the ladies of the court, at which the king was to be found after dinner
and every lord entertained the lady he most loved; two hours were spent in this pleasure which
was continued after supper if there were no balls; bitter railleries and anything that passed
the restrictions of good company were forbidden.

Her ladies of honor obeyed her as they would their God. Marguerite of Valois said of her: "I
did not dare to speak to her, and when she looked at me I trembled for fear of having done
something that displeased her." Ladies who had been delinquent were stripped and beaten with
lashes; for correction—frequently for mere pastime—she would have them undressed and slapped
vigorously with the back of the hand. Françoise of Rohan, cousin of Jeanne d'Albret, wrote
the following poem:

  "Plus j'ai de toi souvent esté battue,
  Plus mon amour s'efforce et s'évertue
  De regretter ceste main qui me bat;
  Car ce mal-là m'estait plaisant esbat.
  Or, adieu done la main dont la rigueur
  Je préferais à tout bien et honneur."

[The more often I have been struck by you, the more my love struggles and strives to regret
the hand that beats me; for that punishment was a pleasant pastime for me. Now farewell to
the hand whose rigor I preferred to every fortune and honor.]

The following portrait and poetry, taken from M. Saint-Amand, does the subject full justice:
"Catherine de' Medici represented with a sinister glance, deadly mien, mysterious and savage
aspect—a spectre, not a woman—is not true to nature. Her self-possession, cool cunning, supreme
elegance, imperturbable tranquillity, calmness, moderation, noble serenity, and dignified poise,
gave her an individuality such as few women ever possessed. Gentle in crime and tragedy, polite
like an executioner toward his victim—this Machiavellianism which is equal to every trial,
which nothing alarms or surprises, and which with tranquil dexterity makes sport of every law
of morality and humanity—this is the real character of Catherine de' Medici." The following
burlesque poetry was composed for her:

  "La reine qui ci-git fut un diable et un ange,
  Toute pleine de blâme et pleine de louange,
  Elle soutint l'Etat, et l'Etat mit à bas;
  Elle fit maints accords et pas moins de débats;
  Elle enfanta trois rois et trois guerres civiles,
  Fit bâtir des châteaux et ruiner des villes,
  Fit bien de bonnes lois et de mauvais édits.
  Souhaite-lui, passant, enfer et paradis."

[The queen lying here was both devil and angel, blamed and praised; she both put down and upheld
the state; she caused many an agreement and no end of disputes; she produced three kings and
three civil wars; she built castles and ruined cities, made many good laws and many bad decrees.
Wish her, passer-by, hell and paradise.]

With the reign of Henry IV.—the first king of the house of Bourbon, and the first king of the
sixteenth century with a will of his own and the courage to assert it—begins a period of revelling,
debauch, and the most depraved immorality. Three mistresses in turn controlled him—morally,
not politically.

Henry was master of his own will, and, had he desired to do so, could have overcome his evil
tendencies; instead, he openly countenanced and even encouraged dissoluteness and elegant debauchery,
as long as he himself was not deprived of the lady upon whom his capricious fancy happened
to fall. His advances were but seldom repulsed; but upon making his usual audacious proposals
to the Marquise de Guercheville, he was informed that she was of too insignificant a house
to be the king's wife and of too good a race to be his mistress; and when the king, in spite
of this rebuff, made her lady of honor to his wife, Marie de' Medici, she continued to resist
him and remained virtuous. Such types of purity, honor, and moral courage were very exceptional
during this reign.

The three principal mistresses of this sovereign represent three phases of influence and three
periods of his life. Corisande d'Andouins, Comtesse de Guiche and Duchesse de Gramont, fascinated
him for eight years, while he was King of Navarre (1582-1590); to her he was deeply attached,
and recompensed her for her devotion; this is called his chevaleresque period. The beautiful
Gabrielle d'Estrées, Duchesse de Beaufort, was called his mate after victory; "she refined,
sharpened, softened, and tamed his customs; she made him king of the court instead of the field."
It was she who ventured to meddle in his politics, she whom Marguerite of Valois, his wife,
so detested that she refused to consent to a divorce as long as Gabrielle (by whom he had several
children) remained his mistress. The latter even went so far as to demand the baptism, as a
child of France, of her son by the king. Sully, in a rage, declared there were no "children
of France," and took the order to the king, who had it destroyed; he then asked his minister
to go to his mistress and satisfy her, "in so far as you can." To his efforts she replied:
"I am aware of all, and do not care to hear any more; I am not made as the king is, whom you
persuade that black is white." Upon receiving this report, the king said: "Here, come with
me; I will let you see that women have not the possession of me that certain malignant spirits
say they have." Shortly after this episode, Gabrielle died so suddenly that she was supposed
to have been poisoned. Immediately after her death the divorce was granted, and Henry married
Marie de' Medici.

The third mistress, Henriette de Balzac d'Entragues, Marquise de Verneuil, who led Henry IV.
along a path of the worst debauchery, gained control over him by lewd, lascivious methods.
While negotiations were being carried on for his divorce from Marguerite, only a few weeks
after the death of Gabrielle, he signed a promise to marry Henriette; this, however, he failed
to keep. She, more than any other of his mistresses, was the cause of national distress and
of more than one ruinous war. When, after the marriage of the king to Marie de' Medici, Henriette
began to nag, rail, intrigue, and conspire, she was disgraced by Henry, who at least had the
courage to honor his own family above that of his mistresses. She is accused of having had,
solely from motives of revenge, a hand in the death of the king.

Thus, around the queens-regent and the mistresses of the kings of France in the sixteenth century
there is constant intriguing, murder, assassination, immorality, and debauchery, jealousy and
revenge, marriage and divorce, honor and disgrace, despotism and final repentance and misery.
The greatest and lowest of these women was Catherine de' Medici; Diana of Poitiers was famed
as the most marvellously beautiful woman in France, and she was the most powerful and intelligent
mistress until the time of Mme. de Pompadour. Amid all this bribery and corruption, elegant
and refined immorality, there are some few types that represent education, family life, purity,
and culture.

Chapter II

Woman in Family Life, Education, and Letters

The queens of France exerted little or no influence upon the cultural or political development
of that country. Frequently of foreign extraction and reared in the strict religious discipline
of Catholicism, they spent their time in attending masses, aiding the poor and, with the little
money allowed them, erecting hospitals and other institutions for the weak and needy. Thus,
they are, as a rule, types of gentleness, virtue, piety, and self-sacrifice.

The little information which history gives concerning them is confined mainly to their matrimonial
alliances. To them, marriage represented nothing more than a contract—a union entered into
for the purpose of settling some political negotiation; thus they were often cast upon strange
and unfriendly soil where intrigues and jealousy immediately affected them.

Seldom did they venture to interfere with the intrigues of the mistress; in their uncertain
position, any manifestation of resentment or opposition resulted in humiliation and disgrace;
if wise, they contented themselves with quietly performing their functions as dutiful wives.
Such women were Claude, daughter of Louis XII., and Eleanor of Spain—wives of Francis I.; lacking
the power to act politically, both passed uneventful and virtuous lives in comparative obscurity.
The wife of Charles IX.—Elizabeth of Austria, daughter of Maximilian II.—had absolutely no
control over her husband; however, he condescended to flatter himself with having, as he said,
"in an amiable wife, the wisest and most virtuous woman not only of France and Europe, but
of the universe." Her nature is well portrayed in the answer she gave to the remark made to
her, after the death of her husband: "Ah, Madame, what a misfortune that you have no son! Your
lot would be less pitiful and you would be queen-mother and regent." "Alas, do not suggest
such a disagreeable thing!" she replied. "As if France had not afflictions enough without my
producing another to complete its ruin! For, if I had a son, there would be more divisions
and troubles, more seditions to obtain the administration and guardianship during his infancy
and minority; all would try to profit themselves by despoiling the poor child—as they wanted
to do with the late king, my husband." Returning to Austria, she erected a convent, treated
the nuns as friends and refused to marry again even to ascend the throne of Spain.

Louise de Vaudemont, wife of Henry III, was a French woman by birth and blood. After the death
of the Princess of Condé, whom he passionately loved and desired to marry, Henry conceived
an intense affection for Louise, daughter of Nicholas of Lorraine, Count of Vaudemont—a young
lady of education and culture—"a character of exquisite sweetness lends distinction to her
beauty and her piety; her thorough Christian modesty and humility are reflected in her countenance."
Brantôme wrote: "This princess deserves great praise; in her married life she comported herself
so wisely, chastely, and loyally toward the king that the nuptial tie which bound her to him
always remained firm and indissoluble,—was never found loosened or undone,—even though the
king liked and sometimes procured a change, according to the custom of the great who keep their
full liberty." Soon after the marriage, however, Henry began to make life unpleasant for the
queen, one of his petty acts being to deprive her of the moral ladies in waiting whom she had
brought with her.

Louise de Vaudemont was a striking contrast to the perverted woman of the day; the latter,
no longer charmed by the gentler emotions, sought the exaggerated and the eccentric, extraordinary
incidents, dramatic situations, unexpected crises, finding all amusements insipid unless they
involved fighting and romantic catastrophes. "Billets doux were written in blood and ferocity
reigned even in pleasure."

In the midst of this turmoil, Louise busied herself with charity, appearing among the poor
and distributing all the funds which her father gave her for pocket money; the evils of her
surroundings threw her virtues, by contrast, into so much the brighter light. Though she held
herself aloof from intrigues and rivalries, favoring no one and encouraging no slander, she
was, strange to say, respected, admired and honored by Protestants and Catholics alike.

Calumny and all the agitations about her did not disturb Louise in her prayers. "The waves
of the angry ocean broke at the foot of the altar as the queen knelt; but Huguenots and Catholics,
leaguers and royalists, united to pay her homage. They were amazed to see such purity in an
atmosphere so corrupt, such gentleness in a society so violent. Their eyes rested with satisfaction
on a countenance whose holy tranquillity was undisturbed by pride and hatred. The famous women
of the century, wretched in spite of all their amusements and their feverish pursuit of pleasure,
made salutary reflections as they contemplated a woman still more highly honored for her virtues
than for her crown." That she was not a mother was, with her, an enduring sorrow; even that,
however, did not alter her calmness and benign resignation.

Louise de Vaudemont was indeed a bright star in a heaven of darkness—one of the best queens
of whom French history can boast; she is an example of goodness and gentleness, of purity,
charity, and fidelity in a world of corruption, cruelty, hatred, and debauch—where sympathy
was rare and chastity was ridiculed. Although a highly educated woman, the faithful performance
of her duties as queen and as a devout Catholic left her little time for literature and art;
she remains the type of piety and purity—an ideal queen and woman.

A heroine in the fullest sense of that word was Jeanne d'Albret, the great champion of Protestantism;
she was the mother of Henry IV. and the wife of the Duke of Bourbon, Count of Vendôme, a direct
descendant of Saint Louis. This despotic, combative, and war-loving queen reigned as absolute
monarch, and was as autocratic and severe as Calvin himself, confiscating church property,
destroying pictures and altars—even going so far as to forbid the presence of her subjects
at mass or in religious processions. "Her natural eloquence, the lightning flashes from her
eyes, her reputation as a Spartan matron and an intractable Calvinist, all contributed to give
her great influence with her party. The military leaders—Coligny, La Rochefoucauld, Rohan,
La Noue—submitted their plans of campaign to her."

Though Jeanne was, perhaps, as fanatical, intolerant, and cruel as her adversaries, she was
driven to this by the hostility shown her by the Catholic party—a party in which she felt she
could place no confidence. Her retreat was amid rocks and inaccessible peaks, whence she defied
both the pope and Philip II. She brought up her son—the future Henry IV.—among the children
of the people, exercising toward him the severest discipline, and inuring him to the cold of
the winter and the heat of the summer; she taught him to be judicious, sincere, and compassionate—qualities
which she possessed to a remarkable degree. Chaste and pure herself, she considered the court
of France a hotbed of voluptuousness and debauchery, and at every opportunity strengthened
herself against its possible influence.

The political and religious troubles of Jeanne d'Albret began when Pope Paul IV. invested Philip
II. of Spain with the sovereignty of Navarre—her territory; she resisted, and, following the
impulses of her own nature, formally embraced Calvinism, while her weak husband acceded to
the commands of the Church, and, applying to the pope for the annulment of his marriage, was
prepared, as lieutenant-general of the kingdom, a position he accepted from the pontiff, to
deprive his wife of her possessions. His death before the realization of his project made it
possible for Jeanne to retain her sovereignty; alone, an absolute monarch, she declared Calvinism
the established religion of Navarre. After the assassination of Condé she remained the champion
of the Huguenots, defying her enemies and scorning the court of France.

So great were her power and influence over the soldiery that Catherine de' Medici, her bitter
enemy, desiring to bring her into her power, or, at least, to conciliate her, planned a marriage
between Jeanne's son and Marguerite of Valois—sister of Charles IX. When the suggestion that
the marriage should take place came from the king of France, Jeanne d'Albret suspected an ambush;
with the determination to supervise personally all arrangements for the nuptials, she set out
for the French court. Venerated by the Protestants, and hated but admired by the Catholics,
she had become celebrated throughout Europe for her beauty, intelligence, and strength of mind;
thus, her arrival at Paris created a sensation.

She was so scandalized at the luxury and bold debauchery at court that she decided to give
up the marriage; she had detected the intrigues and falsity of both the king and Catherine,
and had a foreboding of evil. She wrote to her son Henry:

"Your betrothed is beautiful, very circumspect and graceful, but brought up in the worst company
that ever existed (for I do not see a single one who is not infected by it) ... I would not
for anything have you come here to live; this is why I desire you to marry and withdraw yourself
and your wife from this corruption which (bad as I supposed it to be) I find still worse than
I thought. Here, it is not the men who invite the women, but the women who invite the men.
If you were here, you could not escape contamination without a great grace from God."

In the meantime, Catherine, undecided whether to strike immediately or to wait, was redoubling
her kindness and courtesy and her affectionate overtures; her enemies were in her hands. Although
Jeanne suspected that Catherine was capable of every perfidy, she at times believed that her
suspicions were unjust or exaggerated. The situation between these two great women was indeed
a dramatic one: both were tactful, powerful, experienced in war and diplomacy; both were mothers
with children for whose future they sought to provide. Jeanne's hesitancy, however, was fatal;
physically exhausted from suffering and sorrow, worry and excitement, she suddenly died, in
the midst of her preparations for the marriage. While it is not absolutely certain that her
death was due to poison, subsequent events lead strongly to the belief that Catherine was instrumental
in causing it—that, probably, being but the first act toward the awful catastrophe she was
planning.

"A few hours before her agony, Jeanne dictated the provisions of her will. She recommended
her son to remain faithful to the religion in which she had reared him, never to permit himself
to be lured by voluptuousness and corruption, and to banish atheists, flatterers, and libertines....
She begged him to take his sister, Catherine, under his protection and to be, after God, her
father. 'I forbid my son ever to use severity towards his sister; I wish, to the contrary,
that he treat her with gentleness and kindness; and that—above all—he have her brought up in
Béarn, and that she shall never leave there until she is old enough to be married to a prince
of her own rank and religion, whose morals shall be such that the spouses may live happily
together in a good and holy marriage.'" D'Aubigné wrote of her: "A princess with nothing of
a woman but sex—with a soul full of everything manly, a mind fit to cope with affairs of moment,
and a heart invincible in adversity."

It was in deep mourning that her son, then King of Navarre, arrived at Paris; the eight hundred
gentlemen who attended him were all likewise in mourning. "But," says Marguerite de Valois,
"the nuptials took place in a few days, with triumph and magnificence that none others, of
even my quality, had ever beheld. The King of Navarre and his troop changed their mourning
for very rich and fine clothes, I being dressed royally, with crown and corsage of tufted ermine
all blazing with crown jewels, and, the grand blue mantle with a train four ells long borne
by three princesses. The people down below, in their eagerness to see us as we passed, choked
one another." (Thus quickly was Jeanne d'Albret forgotten.) The ceremonies were gorgeous, lasting
four days; but when Admiral Coligny, the Huguenot leader, was struck in the hand by a musket
ball, the festive aspect of affairs suddenly changed. On the second day after the wounding
of Coligny, and before the excitement caused by that act had subsided, Catherine accomplished
the crowning work of her invidious nature, the tragedy of Saint Bartholomew.

Peace and quiet never appeared upon the countenance of Catherine de' Medici—that woman who
so faithfully represents and pictures the period, the tendencies of which she shaped and fostered
by her own pernicious methods; and Charles IX., her son, was no better than his mother. Saint-Amand,
in his splendid picture of the period, gives a truthful picture of Catherine as well: "It is
interesting to observe how curiously the later Valois represented their epoch. Francis I. had
personified the Renaissance; Charles IX. sums up in himself all the crises of the religious
wars—he is the true type of the morbid and disturbed society where all is violent; where the
blood is scorched by the double fevers of pleasure and cruelty; where the human soul, without
guide or compass, is tossed amid storms; where fanaticism is joined to debauchery, superstition
to incredulity, cultured intelligence to depravity of heart. This wholly unbalanced character—which
stretches evil to its utmost limits while preserving the knowledge of what is good, which mistrusts
everybody and yet has at least the aspiration toward friendship and love, if not its experience—is
it not the symbol and living image of its time?"

Marguerite de Valois, sister of Charles IX. and wife of Henry IV., by her own actions and intrigues
exercised little influence politically; she was, above all else, a woman of culture and may
be taken as an example of the type which was largely instrumental in developing social life
in France. Famous for her beauty, talents, and profligacy, it seems that historians are prone
to dwell too exclusively upon the last quality, overlooking her principal rôle—that of social
leader.

She first came into prominence through her relations with the Duke of Guise who paid assiduous
court to her for some time; for a while, no topic was more discussed than that of their marriage.
When, however, Charles IX. heard that the duke had been carrying on a secret correspondence
with his sister, he exclaimed, savagely: "If it be so, we will kill him!" Thereupon, the duke
hurriedly contracted a marriage with Catherine of Clèves. That Marguerite, at this early date,
had become the mistress of Henry of Guise is hardly likely and becomes even less probable when
it is considered how closely she was watched by her mother, Catherine de' Medici.

Her marriage, previously mentioned, to Henry of Navarre was a mere political match, there being
absolutely no love, no affection, no sympathy. This union was looked upon as the surest covenant
of peace between Catholicism and Protestantism and put an end to the disastrous religious wars
that had been carried on uninterruptedly for years; both the parties to this contract lived
at court, leading an existence of pleasure and immorality. Remarkably intelligent, Marguerite
was a scholar of no mean ability; she displayed much wit and talent, but no judgment or discretion;
though conveying the impression of being rather haughty and proud, she lacked both self respect
and true dignity. Her beauty was marvellous, but "calculated, to ruin and damn men rather than
to save them."

Henry, the husband of Marguerite, was constantly sneered at and taunted by the Catholics; although
Catholic in name he was Protestant at heart and keenly felt his false position. During Catherine's
short term as queen-regent, he was held in captivity until the arrival of Henry III., when
he escaped to his own Béarn people; for this, Marguerite was held responsible and kept under guard.

Although hating his religion, his wife went to live with him, tolerating his infidelities while
he refused to tolerate her religion. The unhappiness of this marriage was not due to Marguerite
alone; the first trouble arose when she discovered his love for his mistress, Gabrielle d'Estrées,
and, thinking herself equally privileged, she began to indulge in the same excesses. The result
of so many annoyances and debaucheries, so much vexation, was an illness; as soon as she became
convalescent, she returned to her mother at court where she speedily gained the ill will of
the king by her profligate habits, her quarrels with both Catholics and Protestants, her intimacy
with the Duke of Guise, her plottings with her younger brother, her cutting satires on court
favorites.

She was sent back to Henry, upon the way meeting with the mishap of being insulted by archers
and, with her maids, led away prisoner. Her husband was with difficulty persuaded to receive
her, and, finding him all attentive to his mistress, Marguerite fled to Agen, where she made
war upon him as a heretic; unable to hold her position there on account of her licentious manner
of living and the exorbitant taxes imposed upon the inhabitants, she fled again and continued
moving from one place to another, causing mischief everywhere, "consuming the remainder of
her youth in adventures more worthy of a woman who had abandoned her husband than of a daughter
of France." At last, she was seized and imprisoned in the fortress of Usson; here she was supported
mainly by Elizabeth of Austria, widow of Charles IX.

When her husband became King of France, he refused to liberate her until she should renounce
her rank; to this condition she refused to accede until after the death of her rival, the mistress
of Henry—Gabrielle d'Estrées, Duchess de Beaufort. After the annulment of the marriage, Marguerite
said: "If our household has been little noble and less bourgeois, our divorce was royal." She
was permitted to retain the title of queen, her debts were paid and other great concessions
granted. Her subsequent relations with Henry IV. were very cordial and fraternal; she even
revealed political plots to him.

When, after nearly twenty years of captivity, Marguerite returned to Paris (1605), she gained
the favor of everybody—the king, dauphin, and court ladies. She was present at the coronation
of Marie de' Medici, and, by being tactful enough to keep apart from all intrigues, quarrels,
and jealousies, she managed to win the good will of the king's favorites. She became the social
leader, the queen inviting her to all court ceremonies and consulting her on all disputed questions
of etiquette—even going so far as to intrust her with the reception of the Duke of Pastrana,
who had come to ask the hand of Elizabeth of France. It is reported that in her last years
she led a worse life than in her earlier days—she had become a woman of the bad world, resorting
to every possible means to hide her age and to gain any vantage ground. In order to be well
supplied with blond wigs, she kept fair-haired footmen who were shorn from time to time to
furnish the supply. In the latter part of her life, spent at Paris and its vicinity, she fell
a victim to hypochondria, suffering the most bitter pangs of remorse and terrible fear at approaching
death. To alleviate this, she founded a convent where she taught the children music. She died
in 1615, in Paris, "in that blended piety and coquetry which formed the basis of a character
unable to give up gallantries and love."

One of the very few historians who give due credit to her social importance and assign her
the position she may rightfully command among French women of the sixteenth century is M. Du
Bled. According to him, she was the leader of fashion, and in all its components she showed
excellent taste and judgment. Forced to marry the king of Navarre, she said, after the ceremony:
"I received from marriage all the evil I ever received, and I consider it the greatest plague
of my life. They tell me that marriages are made in heaven; heaven did not commit such an injustice;"
and this seems to be the secret of her "vicious life."

As soon as she discovered that the king's favorites were determined to make life hard and disagreeable
for her, she sought consolation in love and the toilette, in balls and fêtes, in ballets and
hunting, in promenades and gallant conversations, in tennis and carousals, and in an infinite
variety of ingeniously planned pleasures. The spirit of chivalry, the habits of exalted devotion,
were again in full sway about her. She worried little about virtue: "She had the gift of pleasing,
was beautiful, and made full use of the liberality of the gods. Whatever may be said of her
morals, it can truthfully be stated that she showed art in her love and practised it more in
spirit than with the body." Music was a favorite art with her; she encouraged and rewarded
singing, especially in the convent which she founded and where she spent almost all of her
later days instructing the children.

Her court at Usson, where, as a prisoner, she lived for twenty years, was the most brilliant
and least material of all France; there poets, artists, and scholars were held in high esteem,
and were on familiar footing with Marguerite; the latter showed no despotism, but, with the
most consummate skill, directed conversations and proposed subjects, encouraging discussion,
and skilfully drawing from her friends the most brilliant repartees. She received people of
distinction without ceremony.

She introduced the two elements which were combined in the eighteenth-century salon: a fine
cuisine and freedom among her friends from the restraint usually imposed by distinction. She
was, also, one of the first to have a circle—well organized according to modern etiquette—where
the highest aristocracy, men of letters, magistrates, artists, and men of genius met on equal
terms and in familiar and social intercourse; Montaigne, Brantôme, and other great writers
dedicated their works to her. She also directed a select few, an academy, to instruct and distract
herself. It is said that every coquette, every bourgeois woman, and almost every court lady
endeavored to imitate her. When she died, at the age of sixty-two, poets and preachers sang
and chanted her merits, and all the poor wept over their loss; she was called the queen of
the indigent. Richelieu mentioned her devotion to the state, her style, her eloquence, the
grace of her hospitality, her infinite charity. "She remains, par excellence, the one great
sympathetic woman of the sixteenth century; her admirers, during life and after death, were
legion. She shared in the lesser evils of the century, but it cannot be said that she participated
in the brutalities, grossness, or glaring immoralities of her time; her weaknesses, compared
with the great debauches of the age, seemed like virtues."

Such is this great woman of the sixteenth century, who has received almost universal condemnation
at the hands of historians. It is to be taken into consideration that she was forced to marry
a man whom she did not love, and to live in a country utterly uncongenial to her nature and
opposed to the religion in which she was reared; furthermore, that her husband first defiled
the marital union, thus driving her to follow the general tendencies of the time or to seek
solace in religious activity, for which she had too much energy. After due consideration of
the extenuating circumstances, her faults and vices, such as they were, may easily be condoned.
Because she was the wife of a powerful Protestant king, she was condemned by Catholics and
by them regarded with suspicion; and, in order to save herself, she was forced to commit unwise
acts and even follies.

In fine, whatever may be said against Marguerite de Valois, whom despair drove to acts which
are not generally pardoned, she stands foremost among the social leaders and cultured women
of the sixteenth century, a century whose prominent women were notorious for their licentiousness
and lack of conscience rather than famous for their virtue and womanly accomplishments. Undeniably
powerful and brilliant, these unscrupulous women were never happy; usually proud, they finally
suffered the most cruel humiliations; "voluptuous, they found anguish underlying pleasure."
Their misfortunes are, possibly more interesting than those successes of which chagrin anxiety,
and heavy hearts were the inseparable associates.

Religion, which in the sixteenth century was so badly understood, and practised even worse—obscured
and falsified by fanaticism, disfigured and exaggerated by passion and hatred—was the secret
cause of all downfalls crimes, horrors, intrigues, and brutality. Yet, it alone survives, and
all the important figures of history return to it after a period of negligence and forgetfulness.
In their religious aspect, the women of the sixteenth century differ as a rule, from those
of the eighteenth, who, though equally powerful, witty, refined, sensual, frivolous, and scoffing,
were far less devout; for "'tis religion which restores the great female sinners of the sixteenth
century 'tis religion which saves a society ploughed up by so many elements of dissolution
and so many causes of moral and material ruin, rescuing it from barbarism, vandalism, and from
irretrievable decay;" but the women of the eighteenth century clung, to the end, to the scepticism
and material philosophy which served them as their religion, their God.

Among the conspicuous women of the sixteenth century to whom, thus far, we have been able to
attribute so little of the wholesome and pleasing, the womanly or love-inspiring, there is
one striking exception in Marguerite d'Angoulême, a representative of letters, art, culture,
and morality. With the study of this character we are taken back to the beginning of the century
and carried among men of letters especially, for she formed the centre of the literary world.
She, her mother, Louise of Savoy, and her brother, Francis I., were called a "trinity," to
the existence of which Marguerite bore witness in the poem:

  "Such boon is mine—to feel the amity
  That God hath putten in our trinity
  Wherein to make a third, I, all unfitted
  To be that number's shadow, am admitted."

Marguerite inherited many of her qualities from her mother, "a most excellent and a most venerable
dame," though anything but moral and conscientious; she, upon discovering that her daughter
possessed rare intellectual gifts, provided her with teachers in every branch of the learning
of the age. "At fifteen years of age, the spirit of God began to manifest itself in her eyes,
in her face, in her walk, in her speech, and in all her actions generally." Brantôme says:
"She had a heart mightily devoted to God and she loved mightily to compose spiritual songs.
She devoted herself to letters, also, in her young days and continued them as long as she lived,
in the time of her greatness, loving and conversing with the most learned folks of her brother's
kingdom, who honored her so greatly that they called her their Mæcenas." Tenderness, particularly
for her brother, seemed to develop in her as a passion.

Marguerite was a rare exception in a period described by M. Saint-Amand as one in which women
were Christian in certain aspects of their character and pagan in others, taking an active
part in every event, ruling by wit and beauty, wisdom and courage; an age of thoughtless gaiety
and morbid fanaticism, and of laughter and tears, still rough and savage, yet with an undercurrent
of subtle grace and exquisite politeness; an age in which the extremes of elegance and cruelty
were blended, in which the most glaring scepticism and intense superstitions were everywhere
evident; an age which was religious as well as debauched and whose women were both good and
evil, innocent and intriguing. Everything was fluctuating; there was inconstancy even in the
things most affected: pleasure, pomp, display. The natural outcome of this undefined restlessness
was dissatisfaction; and when dissatisfaction brought in its train the inevitable reaction
against falseness and immorality, Marguerite d'Angoulême stood at the head of the movement.

With her begins the cultural and moral development of France. It was she who encouraged that
desire for a new phase of existence, which arose through contact with Italian culture. The
men of learning—poets, artists, scholars—who soon gathered about the French court received
immediate recognition from the king's sister, who had studied all languages, was gay, brilliant,
and æsthetic. While her mother and brother were in harmony with the age, no better, no worse
than their environment, Marguerite aspired to the most elevated morals and ideals; thus, she
is a type of all that is refined, sensitive, loving, noble, and generous in humanity, a woman
vastly superior to her time; in fact, the modern woman, with her highest attributes.

In Marguerite d'Angoulême contemporaries admired prudence, chastity, moderation, piety, an
invincible strength of soul, and her habit of "hiding her knowledge instead of displaying it."
"In an age wholly depraved, she approached the ideal woman of modern times; in spite of her
virtue, she was brilliant and honored, the centre of a coterie that delighted in music, verse,
ingenious dialogues and gossip, story telling, singing, rhyming. Deeply afflicted by the sad
and odious spectacle of the vices, abuses, and crimes which unroll before her, she suffers
through her imagination, mind and heart." Serious and sympathetic, she was interested in every
movement, feeling with those who were persecuted on account of their religious opinions.

Various are the names by which she is known: daughter of Charles of Orléans, Count of Angoulême,
Duchesse d'Alençon through her first marriage, and Queen of Navarre through her second, she
was called Marguerite d'Angoulême, Marguerite of Navarre, of Valois, Marguerite de France,
Marguerite des Princesses, the Fourth Grace, and the Tenth Muse. A most appreciative and just
account of her life is given by M. Saint-Amand, which will be followed in the main outline
of this sketch.

She was born in 1492, and, as already stated, received a thorough education under the direction
of her mother, Louise of Savoy. At seventeen she was married to Charles III., Duke of Alençon;
as he did not prove to be her ideal, she sought consolation in love for her brother, sharing
the almost universal admiration for the young king, whose tendency to favor everything new
and progressive was stimulated by her. She became his constant and best adviser in general
affairs as well as in those of state. The foreign ambassadors sought her after having accomplished
their mission, and were referred to her when the king was busy; they were enraptured, and carried
back wonderful reports of Marguerite.

The world of art was opened to the French by a bevy of such painters and sculptors as Leonardo
da Vinci, Rosso, Primaticcio, Benvenuto Cellini, and Bramante, and they were encouraged and
fêted by Marguerite especially. In those days a new picture from Italy by Raphael was received
with as much pomp and ceremony as, in olden times, were accorded the holiest relics from the East.

Men of letters gathered about the sister of the king, forming what might be termed a court
of sentimental metaphysics; for the questions discussed were those of love. This refined gallantry,
empty and vapid, formed the foundation of the seventeenth-century salon, where the language
and fine points of sentiment were considered and cultivated until sentiment acquired poise,
grandeur, and an air of dignity and reserve.

The period was one in which, during times of trial and misfortune, the presence of an underlying
religious sentiment became unmistakable. In such an atmosphere, the propensity toward mysticism,
which Marguerite had manifested as a child, grew more and more apparent. When Francis I. was
captured at the battle of Pavia, his sister immediately sought consolation in devotion, the
nature of which is well illustrated in a letter to the captive king:

"Monseigneur, the further they remove you from us, the greater becomes my firm hope of your
deliverance and speedy return, for the hour when men's minds are most troubled is the hour
when God achieves His masterstroke ... and if He now gives you, on one hand, a share in the
pains which He has borne for you, and, on the other hand, the grace to bear them patiently,
I entreat you, Monseigneur, to believe unfalteringly that it is only to try how much you love
Him and to give you leisure to think how much He loves you. For He desires to have your heart
entirely, as, for love, He has given you His own; He has permitted this trial, in order, after
having united you to Him by tribulation, to deliver you for His own glory—so that, through
you, His name may be known and sanctified, not in your kingdom alone, but in all Christendom
and even to the conversion of the infidels. Oh, how blessed will be your brief captivity by
which God will deliver so many souls from that infidelity and eternal damnation! Alas, Monseigneur!
I know that you understand all this far better than I do; but seeing that in other things I
think only of you, as being all that God has left me in this world,—father, brother, husband,—and
not having the comfort of telling you so, I have not feared to weary you with a long letter,
which to me is short, in order to console myself for my inability to talk with you."

After his incarceration in the gloomy prison in Spain where he was taken ill, Francis asked
for the safe conduct of Marguerite; this was gladly granted. Ignorant of her future duty in
Spain, she wrote: "Whatever it may be, even to the giving of my ashes to the winds to do you
a service, nothing will seem strange, difficult or painful to me, but will be only consolation,
repose, and honor." So impatient was she to arrive at her brother's side that she could not
travel fast enough.

Her presence only increased his fever and a serious crisis soon came on, the king remaining
for some time "without hearing or seeing or speaking." Marguerite, in this critical time, implored
the assistance of God. She had an altar erected in her chamber, and all the French of the household,
great lords and domestics alike, knelt beside the sick man's sister and received the communion
from the hands of the Archbishop of Embrun, who, drawing near the bed, entreated the king to
turn his eyes to the holy sacrament. Francis came out of his lethargy and asked to commune
likewise, saying: "It is my God who will heal my soul and body; I entreat you that I may receive
him." Then, the Host having been divided in two, the king received one half with the greatest
devotion, and his sister the other half. The sick man felt himself sustained by a supernatural
force; a celestial consolation descended into the soul that had been despairing. Marguerite's
prayer had not been unavailing—Francis I. was saved.

She then proceeded to visit different cities and royalties, endeavoring to secure concessions
for her brother. From the people in the streets as well as from the lords in their houses,
she received the most unmistakable proofs of friendly feeling; in fact, her favor was so great
that Charles V. informed "the Duke of Infantado that, if he wished to please the emperor, neither
he nor his sons must speak to Madame d'Alençon." The latter, unable to secure her brother's
release, planned a marriage between him and Eleanor of Portugal, sister of Charles V.; her
successes at court and in the family of the emperor furthered this scheme. Brantôme says: "She
spoke to the emperor so bravely and so courteously that he was quite astonished, and she spoke
even more to those of his council with whom she had audience; there she produced an excellent
impression, speaking and arguing with an easy grace in which she was proficient, and making
herself rather agreeable than hateful or tiresome. Her reasons were found good and pertinent
and she retained the high esteem of the emperor, his court and council."

Although she failed in her attempts to free the king, she succeeded, by arranging the marriage,
in completely changing the rigorous captivity to which Charles had subjected him. Finally,
by giving his two eldest sons as hostages, the king obtained his release, and in March, 1526,
he again set foot, as sovereign, on French soil. Thus the king's life was saved and he was
permitted to return to his country, Marguerite's devotion having accomplished that in which
the most skilled diplomatist would have failed.

All historians agree that Marguerite d'Angoulême was a devout Catholic, but that she was too
broad and liberal, intelligent and humane, to sanction the unbridled excesses of fanaticism.
The acknowledged leader of moral reform, she protected and assisted those persecuted on account
of their religious views and sympathized with the first stages of that movement which revolted
against abuses, vice, scandals, immorality, and intrigue. With her, the question was not one
of dogma, but concerned, instead, the religion which she considered most conducive to progress
and reform. It grieved her to see her religion defile itself by cruel and inhuman persecutions
and tortures, by intolerance and injustice. She felt for, but not with, the heretics in their
errors. "She typifies her age in all that is good and noble, in artistic aspirations, in literary
ideals, in pure politics—in short,—in humanity; in her is not found the chaotic vagueness which
so often breaks out in license and licentiousness, cruelty, and barbarism."

During the absence in Spain of Francis I. and Marguerite, the mother-regent sought to gain
the support and favor of Rome by ordering imprisonments, confiscations, and punishments of
heretics; but upon the return of the king and his sister, the banished were recalled and tolerance
again ruled. When (in 1526) Berquin was seized and tried for heresy, he found but one defender.
Marguerite wrote to her brother, still at Madrid:

"My desire to obey your commands was sufficiently strong without having it redoubled by the
charity you have been pleased to show poor Berquin according to your promise; I feel that He
for whom I believe him to have suffered will approve of the mercy which, for His honor, you
have had upon His servant and your own."

Marguerite had saved Berquin and had even taken him into her service. Her letter to the constable,
Anne de Montmorency, shows her esteem of men of genius and especially of Berquin:

"I thank you for the pleasure you have afforded me in the matter of poor Berquin whom I esteem
as much as if he were myself; and so you may say you have delivered me from prison, since I
consider in that light the favor done me."

When on June 1, 1528, a statue of the Virgin was thrown down and mutilated by unknown hands,
a reversion of feeling arose immediately, and even Marguerite was not able to save poor Berquin,
and he was burned at the stake. Upon learning of his imminent peril, she wrote to Francis from
Saint-Germain:

"I, for the last time, very humbly make you a request; it is that you will be pleased to have
pity upon poor Berquin, whom I know to be suffering for nothing other than loving the word
of God and obeying yours. You will be pleased, Monseigneur, so to act that it be not said that
separation has made you forget your most humble and obedient sister and subject, Marguerite."

Encouraged by their success in that instance, the intolerant party began furious attacks upon
her, one monk going so far as to say from the pulpit that she should be put into a sack and
thrown into the Seine. Upon her publication of a religious poem, Miroir de l'âme pécheresse,
in which she failed to mention purgatory or the saints, she was vigorously attacked by Beda,
who had the verses condemned by the Sorbonne and caused the pupils of the College of Navarre
to perform a morality in which Marguerite was represented under the character of a woman quitting
her distaff for a French translation of the Gospels presented to her by a Fury. This was too
much even for Francis, and he ordered the principal and his actors arrested; it was then that
Marguerite showed her gentleness, mercy, and humanity by throwing herself at her brother's
feet and asking for their pardon.

After but a short respite the persecution broke out anew, and with the full sanction of the
king, who, upon finding at his door a placard against the mass, went even so far as to sign
letters patent ordering the suppression of printing (1535). While away from the soothing influence
of his sister, Francis I. was easily persuaded to sign, for the Catholic party, any permit
of execution or cruelty. The life of Marguerite herself was constantly in danger, but in spite
of persistent efforts to turn brother against sister, the king continued to protect and defend
the latter; and though she gradually drew closer to Catholicism, she continued to protect the
Protestants. She founded nunneries and showed a profound devotion toward the Virgin; although
realizing the dangers and follies of the new doctrine, she had too much humanity to encourage
cruelty.

The husband whom the king forced upon her was twelve years her junior, poor, and subsidized
by Francis; by him she had a daughter, Jeanne d'Albret, who became the champion of Protestantism.
Her married life at Pau, where she had erected beautiful buildings and magnificent terraces,
was not happy; the subjects of love that formerly had amused her had lost their charm; and
the incurable disease with which her brother was stricken caused her constant worry and mental
suffering. When banquets, the chase, and other amusements no longer attracted Francis, he summoned
Marguerite to comfort and console him; her devotion and goodness never failed. Unable to recover
from the grief caused by his death in 1547, she expressed her sorrow in the most beautiful poems.

She gave the remainder of her life to religion and charity, abandoning her literary ambitions
and plans. "The life after death gave her much trouble and many moments of perplexity and uneasiness.
She survived her brother only two years, dying in 1549; the helper and protector of good literature,
the defence, consolation, and shelter of the distressed, she was mourned by all France more
than was any other queen." Sainte-Marthe says: "How many widows are there, how many orphans,
how many afflicted, how many old persons, whom she pensioned every year, who now, like sheep
whose shepherd is dead, wander hither and thither, seeking to whom to go, crying in the ears
of the wealthy and deploring their miserable fate!" Poets, scholars, all learned and professional
men, commemorated their protectress in poems and funeral orations. France was one large family
in deep mourning.

Marguerite d'Angoulême must first be considered as the real power behind the supreme authority
of her period, her brother the king; secondly, as a furtherer of the development and encouragement
of good literature, good taste, high art, and pure morals; thirdly, as a critic of importance.
She is entitled to the first consideration by the fact that as the confidential adviser of
Francis I. she moulded his opinions and checked his evil tendencies: the affairs of the kingdom
were therefore, to a large extent, in her hands. She collected and partly organized the chaotic
mass of material thrown upon the sixteenth-century world, leaving its moulding into a classic
French form to the next century; and by her spirit of tolerance she endeavored to further all
moral development: thus is she entitled to the second consideration. Gifted with rare delicacy
of taste, solidity of judgment, and the ability to select, discriminate, and adapt, she set
the standards of style and tone: therefore, she is entitled to the third consideration.

The love of Marguerite for her brother, and her unselfish devotion to his interests, is a precedent
unparalleled in French history until the time of Madame de Sévigné. In all her letters we find
the same tenderness, gentleness, passion, inexhaustible emotion, sympathy, and compassion that
distinguished her actions.

In her Contes (the Heptameron) de la Reine de Navarre we have an accurate representation of
society, its manners and style of conversation; in it we find, also, remnants of the brutality
and grossness of the Middle Ages, as well as reflections of the higher tendencies and aspirations
of the later time. In having a thorough knowledge of the tricks, deceits, and follies of the
professional lovers of the day, and of their object in courting women, Marguerite was able
to warn her contemporaries and thus guard them against immorality and its dangers. In her works
she upheld the purity of ideal love, exposing the questionable and selfish designs of the clever
professional seducers. A specimen may be cited to show her style of writing and the trend of
her thought:

"Emarsuite has just related the history of a gentleman and a young girl who, being unable to
be united, had both embraced the religious life. When the story is ended, Hircan, instead of
showing himself affected, cries: 'Then there are more fools and mad women than there ever were!'
'Do you call it folly,' says Oisille, 'to love honestly in youth and then to turn all love
to God?' ... 'And yet I have the opinion,' says Parlemente, 'that no man will ever love God
perfectly who has not perfectly loved some creature in this world.' 'What do you by loving
perfectly?' asks Saffredant; 'do you call perfect lovers who are bashful and adore ladies from
a distance, without daring to express their wishes?' 'I call those perfect lovers,' replies
Parlemente, 'who seek some perfection in what they love—whether goodness, beauty or kindness—and
whose hearts are so lofty and honest that they would rather die than perform those base deeds
which honor and conscience forbid; for the soul which was created only to return to its Sovereign
Good cannot, while it is in the body, do otherwise than desire to win thither; but because
the senses, by which it can have tidings of that which it seeks, are dull and carnal on account
of the sin of our first parents, they can show it only those visible things which most nearly
approach perfection; and the soul runs after them, believing that in visible grace and moral
virtues it may find the Sovereign Grace, Beauty and Virtue. But without finding whom it loves,
it passes on like the child who, according to his littleness, loves apples, pears, dolls and
other little things—the most beautiful that his eye can see—and thinks it riches to heap little
stones together; but, on growing larger he loves living things, and, therefore, amasses the
goods necessary for human life; but he knows, by the greatest experiences, that neither perfection
nor felicity is attained by possessions only, and he desires true felicity and the Maker and
Source thereof.'"

In her writings, much apparent indelicacy and grossness are encountered; but it must be remembered
for whom she was writing, the condition of morality and the taste of the public at that time,
and that she aimed faithfully to depict the society that lay before her eyes. It is argued
by some critics that these indecencies could not have emanated from a pure, chaste woman; that
Marguerite must have experienced the sins she depicted; but such reasoning is not sound. The
expressions used by her were current in her time; there was greater freedom of manners, and
coarseness and drastic language—examples of which are found so frequently in the writings of
Luther—were very common.

Marguerite was less remarkable for what she did than for what she aspired to do. "She invoked,
against the vices and prejudices of her epoch, those principles of morality and justice, of
tolerance and humanity, which must be the very foundation of all stable society. She wished
to make her brother the protector of the oppressed, the support of the learned, the crowned
apostle of the Renaissance, the promoter of salutary reforms in the morals of the clergy; in
politics, he was to follow a straight line and methodically advance the accomplishment of the
legitimate ambitions of France."

She expressed the most modern ideas on the rights of woman, particularly on her relative rights
in the married state:

"It is right that man should govern us as our head, but not that he should abandon us or treat
us ill. God has so well ordered both man and woman, that I think marriage, if it is not abused,
one of the most beautiful and secure estates that can be in this world, and I am sure that
all who are here, no matter what pretense they make, think as much or more; and as much as
man calls himself wiser than woman, so much the more grievously will he be punished if the
fault be on his side. Those who are overcome by pleasure ought not to call themselves women
any longer, but men, whose honor is but augmented by fury and concupiscence; for a man who
revenges himself upon his enemy and slays him for a contradiction is esteemed a better companion
for so doing; and the same is true if he love a dozen other women besides his wife; but the
honor of woman has another foundation: it is gentleness, patience, chastity."

Désiré Nisard says that Marguerite d'Angoulême was the first to write prose that can be read
without the aid of a vocabulary; in verse, she excels all poets of her time in sympathy and
compassion; her poetry is "a voice which complains—a heart which suffers and which tells us
so." "It is not so much her own deep sentiment that is reflected, but her emotion, which is
both intellectual and sympathetic, volitional and spontaneous." Her letters were epoch-making;
nothing before her time nor after her (until Madame de Sévigné) can equal them in precision,
purity of language, sincerity and frankness of expression, passion and religious fervor.

In spite of what may be said to the contrary, her life was an ideal one, an example of perfect
moral beauty and elevation; noble, generous, refined, pious, and sincere, she possessed qualities
which were indeed rare in her time. She was attacked for her charity, and is to-day the victim
of narrow sectarian and biased devotees. Her act of renouncing all gorgeous dress, even the
robes of gold brocade so much worn by every princess, in order to give all her money to the
poor; her protection of the needy and persecuted; her court of poets and scholars; her visits
to the sick and stricken; even her untiring love for her brother and her acts of clemency—all
have frequently been misinterpreted.

The greatest poets and men of letters of the sixteenth century were encouraged financially
and morally or protected by Marguerite d'Angoulême—Rabelais, Marot, Pelletier, Bonaventure-Desperiers,
Mellin de Saint-Gelais, Lefèvre d'Etaples, Amyot, Calvin, Berquin. Charles de Sainte-Marthe
says: "In seeing them about this good lady, you would say it was a hen which carefully calls
and gathers her chicks and shelters them with her wings."

Many critics believe that her literary work was imitative rather than original; even if this
be true, it in no measure detracts from her importance, which is based upon the fact that she
was the leading spirit of the time and typified her environment. Her followers, and they included
all the intellectual spirits, looked up to her as the one incentive for writing and pleasing.
Her disposition was characterized by restlessness, haste—too great eagerness to absorb and
digest and appropriate all that was unfolded before her. She imitated the Decameron and drew
up for herself a Heptameron; her poetry showed much skill and great ease, but little originality.
Her extreme facility, her wonderfully active mind, her power of causerie, and her ability to
discuss and write upon philosophical and religious abstractions, won the deep admiration and
respect of her followers, who were not only content to be aided financially by her, but looked
to her for guidance and counsel in their own work, though she never imposed her ideas and taste
upon others. By her tact, she was able practically to control and guide the entire literary,
artistic, and social development of the sixteenth century. Every form of intellectual movement
of this period is impregnated with the spirit of Marguerite d'Angoulême.

With her affable and loving manners, her refined taste and superior knowledge, she was able
to influence her brother and, through him, the government. Just as her mother controlled in
politics, so did Marguerite in arts and manners. In her are found the main characteristics
to which later French women owed their influence—a form of versatility which included exceptional
tact and enabled the possessor to appreciate and sympathize with all forms of activity, to
deal with all classes, to manage and be managed in turn.

The writings of Marguerite are quite numerous, consisting of six moralities or comedies, a
farce, epistles, elegies, philosophical poems, and the Heptameron, her principal work—a collection
of prose tales in which are reflected the customary conversation, the morals of polite society,
and the ideal love of the time. They are a medley of crude equivocalities, of the grossness
of the fabliaux, of Rabelais, and of the delicate preciosity of the seventeenth century. Love
is the principal theme discussed—youth, nobility, wealth, power, beauty, glory, love for love,
the delicate sensation of feeling one's self loved, elegant love, obsequious love; perfect
love is found in those lovers who seek perfection in what they love, either of goodness, beauty,
or grace—always tending to virtue.

Thoroughly to appreciate Marguerite d'Angoulême's position and influence and her contributions
to literature, the conditions existing in her epoch must be carefully considered. It was in
the sixteenth century that the charms of social life and of conversation as an art were first
realized; all questions of the day were treated gracefully, if not deeply; woman began to play
an important part, to appear at court, and, by her wit and beauty, to impress man. From the
semi-barbaric spirit of the Middle Ages to the Italian and Roman culture of the Renaissance
was a tremendous stride; in this cultural development, Marguerite was of vital importance.
In intellectual attainments far in advance of the age, among its great women she stands out
alone in her spirit of humanity, generosity, tolerance, broad sympathies, exemplary family
life, and exalted devotion to her brother.

Of the other literary women of the sixteenth century, mention may be made of two who have left
little or no work of importance, but who are interesting on account of the peculiar form of
their activity.

Mlle. de Gournay, fille d'alliance of Montaigne, is a unique character. Having conceived a
violent passion for the philosopher and essayist, she would have no other consort than her
honor and good books. She called the ladies of the court "court dolls," accusing them of deforming
the French language by affecting words that had apparently been greased with oil in order to
facilitate their flow. She was one of the first woman suffragists and the most independent
spirit of the age. In 1592, to see the country of her master, she undertook a long voyage,
at a time when any trip was fraught with the gravest dangers for a woman.

She is a striking example of the effect of sixteenth-century sympathy, admiration, and enthusiasm;
she was protected by some of the greatest literary men of the age—Balzac, Grotius, Heinsius;
the French Academy is said to have met with her on several occasions, and she is said to have
participated in its work of purifying and fixing the French language. Her adherence to the
Montaigne cult has brought her name down to posterity.

M. du Bled relates a droll story in connection with her meeting Richelieu. Mlle. de Gournay
was an old maid, who lived to the ripe age of eighty. Being a pronounced féministe, she—like
her sisters of to-day—cultivated cats. The story runs as follows:

"Bois-Robert conducted her to the Cardinal, who paid her a compliment composed of old words
taken from one of her books; she saw the point immediately. 'You laugh over the poor old girl,
but laugh, great genius, laugh! everybody must contribute something to your diversion.' The
Cardinal, surprised at her ready wit, asked her pardon, and said to Bois-Robert: 'We must do
something for Mlle. de Gournay. I give her two hundred écus pension.' 'But she has servants,'
suggested Bois-Robert. 'Who?' 'Mlle. Jamyn (bastard), illegitimate daughter of Amadis Jamyn,
page of Ronsard.' 'I will give her fifty livres annually.' 'There is still dear little Piaillon,
her cat.' 'I give her twenty livres pension, on condition that Piaillon shall have tripes.'
'But, Monseigneur, she has had kittens!' The Cardinal added a pistole for the little kittens."

A woman of large fortune, she spent it freely in study, in her household, and especially in
alchemy. Her peculiar ideas about love kept her from falling prey to the wealth-seeking gallants
of the time. She was one of the few women who made a profession of writing; she compiled moral
dissertations, defences of woman, and treatises on language, all of which she published at
her own expense; while they are of no real importance, they show a remarkable frankness and
courage.

Mlle. de Gournay was, possibly, the first woman to demand the acceptance of woman on an equal
status with man; for she wrote two treatises on woman's condition and rank, insisting upon
a better education for her, though she herself was well educated. Following the events of the
day with a careful scrutiny and interpreting them in her writings, she showed a remarkable
gift of perspective and deduction and an intimate knowledge of politics. The fact that she
was severely, even spitefully, attacked in both poetry and prose but proves that her writings
on women were effective.

Some writers claim that the founding of the French Academy had its inception at her rooms,
where many of the members met and where, later on, they discussed the work of the Academy.
Her one desire for the language was to have it advance and develop, preserving every word,
resorting to old ones, accepting new ones only when necessary. Thus, among French female educators,
Mlle. de Gournay deserves a prominent place, because of her high ideals and earnest efforts
in the study of the language, for the courage with which she advanced her convictions regarding
woman, and for the high moral standard which she set by her own conduct.

In Louise Labé—La Belle Cordière—we meet a warrior, as well as a woman of letters. The great
movement of the Renaissance, as it swept northward, invaded Lyons; there Louise Labé endeavored
to do what Ronsard and the Pléiade were doing at Paris. A great part of her youth she passed
in war, wearing man's apparel and assuming the name of "Captain Loys"; at an early age, she
left home with a company of soldiers passing through Lyons on the way to lay siege to Perpignan,
where she showed pluck, bravery, and skill. Upon her return, she married a merchant ropemaker,
whence her sobriquet—La Belle Cordière.

She soon won a reputation by gathering about her a circle of men, who complimented her in the
most elegant language and read poetry with her. Science and literature were discussed and the
praises of love sung with passionate, inflamed eloquence. In this circle of congenial spirits,
"she gave rise to doubts as to her virtue." As her husband was wealthy, she was able to collect
an immense library and to entertain at her pleasure; she could converse in almost any language,
and all travellers stopped at Lyons and called to see her at her salon. Her writings consisted
of sonnets, elegies, and dialogues in prose; her influence, being too local, is not marked.
Her greatest claim to attention is that she encouraged letters in a city which was beyond the
reach of every literary movement. Such were the women of the sixteenth century; in no epoch
in French history have women played a greater rôle; art, literature, morals, politics, all
were governed by them. They were active in every phase of life, hunting with men, taking part
in and causing duels, intriguing and initiating intrigues. "In the midst of battle, while cannon-balls
and musket-shots rained about her, Catherine de' Medici was as brave and unconcerned as the
most valiant of men. Diana of Poitiers was called the most wondrous woman, the woman of eternal
youth, the beautiful huntress; it was she whom Jean Goujon sculptured, nude and triumphant,
embracing with marble arms a mysterious stag, enamoured like Leda's swan."

In general, the women of that century "liked better to be feared than loved; they inspired
mad passions, insensate devotions, ecstatic admirations. The epoch was one in which life counted
for little, when balls alternated with massacres; when virtue was befitting only the lowly
born and ugly (Brantôme recommends the beautiful to be inconstant because they should resemble
the sun who diffuses his light so indiscriminately that everybody in the world feels it). It
was the age of beauty—a beauty that fascinated and entranced, but the glow of which melted
and killed; but this glow also reacted upon them that caused it and they became victims of
their own passions—through either jealousy or their own weaknesses. No age was ever more luxurious,
pompous, elegant, brilliant, and wanton, yet beneath all the glitter there were much misery
and bitter repentance; amongst the violent wickedness there were noble and pure women such
as Elizabeth of Austria and Louise de Vaudemont."

The whole century seemed to be afire and to tingle with that spirit of liberty, imitation,
and experimentation, which, so often abused, led to much disaster. In spite of that unsettled
and excited condition, the sixteenth century attained greater development, had more avenues
of intellectual activity opened to it, imitated, thought and imagined more and produced as
much as any other century; in every field, we find the names of its masters. As M. Faguet says,
the sixteenth century was, in France, the century créateur par excellence; and in this, woman's
part was, above all, political, her social, moral, and literary influence being less marked.

Chapter III

The Seventeenth Century: Woman at Her Best

In the seventeenth century, the influence exerted by the women of France, departing from the
political aspect which had characterized it in the preceding century, became of a social, literary,
religious, and moral nature, the last predominating. Inasmuch as the reins of government were
in the hands of the king and his ministers, political affairs were but slightly affected by
the feminine element. Woman, realizing the uselessness as well as danger of plotting against
the inviolate person and power of the king, contented herself with scheming against those ministers
whose attitudes she considered unfavorable to her plans.

Of all social and literary movements, however, woman was the acknowledged leader; in that institution
of culture and development, the seventeenth century salon, her undisputed supremacy placed
her in the position of patroness and protectress of men of letters. In the general religious
movement her rôle was one of secondary importance; and as mistress, she ceased with the sixteenth
century to be either active politically or disastrous morally and became merely a temporary
recipient of capriciously bestowed wealth and favors. In order to fully comprehend woman's
position and the exact nature of her influence in this century and the following one, the position
and constitution of the nobility before, during and after the ministry of Richelieu, must be
studied.

The great houses of Carolingian origin were those of Alençon, Bourgogne, Bourbon, Vendôme,
Kings of Navarre, Counts of Valois, and Artois; the great gentlemen were the Dukes of Guise,
Nemours, Longueville, Chevreuse, Nevers, Bouillon, Rohan, Montmorency, and, later, Luxembourg,
Mortemart, Créqui, Noailles; names which are constantly met with in French history. Before
the time of Louis XIV., men of such rank, when dissatisfied or discontented, might leave court
at their will and were requested to return; but with Louis XIV., departure from court was considered
a disgrace, and offending parties were permitted, not asked, to return.

Outside the army, there was open to the princes of the nobility no occupation in which they
might expend their surplus energy; thus, being free from the burden of taxes, it was but natural
that they should seek amusement in literature, society, and intrigue. The honor of their respective
houses and the fear of being damned in the next world were their only sources of deep concern;
other than these, they assumed no responsibilities, desiring absolute freedom from care.

Legal, judicial, and ecclesiastical offices were open to them but were little favored except
as convenient means of obtaining revenues and positions otherwise not procurable. The first
requisites toward advancement were bravery and skill, not learning; the majority of the members
of the nobility much preferred buying a regiment to being president of a tribunal, and their
primary ambition was to acquire a reputation for magnificence, heroism, and gallantry. They
fought for glory, to show their skill and courage; the sentiment of patriotism was but weakly
developed, and war was indulged in merely for the sake of fighting, passing the time, and being
occupied. As in the preceding century, death was but little feared; in fact, the scorn of it
was carried to the extreme. "The French went to death as though they were to be resuscitated
on the morrow."

That man went to war was not sufficient proof of his bravery; in addition, he must, upon the
smallest pretext, draw his sword, must fight constantly, and especially with adversaries better
armed and larger in force; the love of woman was for such men only. Adventure was the fad:
it is said of one seigneur that he took pleasure in going every night to a certain corner and,
from pure malice, striking with his sword the first person who chanced that way; this unique
pastime he continued until he himself was killed.

Marriage, until the eighteenth century, was not a union of affection, but merely an alliance
between two families and in the interest of both; women, to preserve their identity after marriage,
signed their family names. As maturity was reached at the age of twelve, marriage meant simply
cohabitation. Until the Revolution, free marriages, or liaisons, were recognized as natural
if not legitimate institutions, and the offspring of such unions, who were said to be more
numerous than legitimate children, were legitimatized and became heirs simply through recognition
by the father. (At first, princes were unwilling to accept, as wives, the natural daughters
of kings; however, the Duke of Orleans and the Prince of Conti married the natural daughters
of Louis XIV.) As a rule, titles could not be transmitted through females; when a woman married
beneath her rank she lost her titles, but they were given to her children.

In the seventeenth century, woman's influence was of a nature vastly superior to that exerted
by her in the sixteenth century, in that it rendered sacred both her and her honor; but, in
spite of the refining restraint of the salon, brutality was still the main characteristic of
man. To express beautiful sentiments in the midst of jealousies, rivalries, adventures, complaints,
and despair, was the savoir-vivre of the Catherine de' Medici type of elegance brought from
Italy in the sixteenth century. This caused the extremes of external fastidiousness and internal
grossness to be embodied in the same individual; in the eighteenth century, man was, inwardly
as well as outwardly, refined, mild, kind, a friend of pleasure; and therein lies the fundamental
difference between the honnête homme of Louis XIV. and the homme du monde of Louis XV. The
seventeenth century type of man is midway between that of the sixteenth and eighteenth—more
polished and less gross than the former, yet lacking the knowledge and culture of the latter.

When in the seventeenth century the two all-powerful forces, brute force and money, of the
preceding century were replaced by those of money and the pen, the decay of the impoverished
and unintellectual nobility became but a question of time. The day when great gentlemen might
scorn men of letters and learning was rapidly passing; with the French Academy arose a new
spirit, a fresh impulse was given to intellectual attainments. Although treated as inferiors,
the literary men of the seventeenth century spoke of the aristocracy in a spirit of raillery,
but slightly veiled with respect; and the nobility while remaining, in its way, courageous
and glorious, lost its prestige, force, and influence.

In the seventeenth century, money acquired a certain purchasing value which procured advantages
and luxuries impossible in the preceding period when the brave man was worth infinitely more
than the rich who, scorned and considered as a rapacious Jew, was isolated and in constant
fear of being robbed or killed. As the number of government officials increased, individual
fortunes grew; men became enormously wealthy through the various offices bought by them or
given to them by the government. The financier was a king and many marriages of princes and
dukes with daughters of men of wealth are recorded. Women of station, however, seldom married
beneath their rank, because they lost their titles by so doing, and titles were still the only
road to social success. As a rule, titles could not be transmitted through females; when a
woman made a misalliance her titles were given to her children. Almost all rich men of the
period, from the time of Louis XIII. to the Revolution, became nobles, as almost every brave
man was made a knight up to the seventeenth century. It was possible for the wealthy to buy
a marquisate or baronetage and give it to their children; a grand-marshal of France was no
longer so powerful as a rich banker.

The complete change, under Louis XIV., of the customs of the time, caused numberless petty
jealousies, scandals, and intrigues in the aristocracy, which could no longer maintain its
old form and yet had to be considered by the government. The question of reform arose—how to
restrict the number of nobles, which increased every year. Rank was bestowed for service and,
sometimes, even for wealth; the old families, being poor, had no distinctive prestige except
that given by their privileges at court; their titles no longer distinguished them from the
newcomers, whom they gradually began to disdain, and the result was a general lowering of the
standing, importance, and influence of nobility. Another party which gained prominence was
that of the bench; the judges, as interpreters of the king's laws, became powerful, for law
was absolute. A deadly rivalry sprang up between the parties of rank with no money or power
and of power and money without rank.

The desire of every man of rank to be independent, to be a force in himself instead of a part
of a unit which might be useful to the state as a whole, was one of the principal defects of
the French aristocracy; poverty crushed it, idleness robbed it of its alertness, intriguing
and gradual oppression reduced it to despair. Appointed to offices, its members failed in the
performance of their duties; the latter fell to the under men who, while the aristocracy was
busy at fêtes, in society, at the table, became experts in the affairs of the government—shrewd
politicians and financiers. The new nobility, that of the robe, replaced that of the sword
in all interests of the government except war; gradually, Parliament was made up of men who,
having been elevated to the rank of nobility, retained their aversion to those who were noble
by birth, recognizing only the king as their superior and refusing precedence to even the princes
of the blood. Louis XIV., however, objecting to and fearing such a strong class as that of
the robe, employed, wherever possible, people of lower rank. Thus it happened in the seventeenth
century that the still powerful nobility of higher rank was scorned and kept down; but in the
eighteenth century, when the gentlemen of the robe had become all-powerful and therefore constituted
a dangerous party, it was they who became the objects of scorn and persecution, while the aristocrats
of blood, the gentlemen of the court, recovered the royal favors through their political powerlessness.

French aristocracy really had no object, no raison d'être, after its disappearance from all
governmental functions; it became an encumbrance to the state; having no particular part to
play, it did nothing; this is one of the causes of its dissolution and of the Revolution as
well. Thus France gradually passed from inequality of classes under the sanction of custom
to equality of classes before the law: this change in the condition and constitution of the
French nobility accounts for many intrigues and scandals and explains the social and moral
actions of French women, as well as the difference in the nature of their activities in the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.

The seventeenth was, par excellence, the century which can boast of that incomparable society
the cult of which was the highest in all things—art, religion, philosophy, poetry, politics,
war, and beauty. From the convent of the Carmelites to the Hôtel de Rambouillet, from the Place
Royale to the various châteaux and salons, we must seek only that which is elevating and spiritual,
beautiful and religious. In the famous society which kept pace with the political reputation
and influence of France is found a coterie of women who combined remarkable beauty and intelligence
with a high moral standard, and whose names are intimately connected with the history of France.
Where again can we find such a galaxy of beauties as that formed by Charlotte de Montmorency,
Mme. de Chevreuse, Mme. de Hautefort, Mme. de Montbazon, Mme. de Guémené, Mme. de Châtillon,
Mme. de Longueville, Marie de Gonzague, Henriette de la Vallière, Mme. de Montespan, Mme. de
Maintenon, without enumerating such great writers and leaders of salons as Mme. de Rambouillet,
Mlle. de Scudéry, Mme. de Lambert, Mme. de Sévigné, and Mme. de la Fayette? The seventeenth
century could tolerate no mediocrity; grandeur was in the very atmosphere; its political movements
were great movements; it produced in art a Poussin, in letters a Corneille, in science and
philosophy a Descartes.

The various movements of which woman was the head may be divided into two periods, and each
period into two parts. The political women may well be grouped about Marie de' Medici,—whose
career will not be given separate treatment, inasmuch as there was no drop of French blood
in her veins,—and the social and literary women about Mme. de Rambouillet and her salon. In
the latter half of the seventeenth century and at the beginning of the eighteenth, politics
are represented by Mme. de Montespan—the mistress—and Mme. de Maintenon—the wife; social life
and literature have their purest representative in Mme. de Lambert. The two queens of the seventeenth
century, Anne of Austria and Maria Theresa, were without influence; the religious movement
was represented by the galaxy of women of whom we write in a later chapter.

After the death of Henry IV., Marie de' Medici succeeded in having herself made queen-regent
for Louis XIII., who was then but nine years old. A woman of no particular capacity, who had
in no way adapted herself to French life and customs, she allowed herself to be governed by
an adventurer, an Italian who understood and appreciated French ideals no more than did Marie;
these two—the queen and Concini, her minister—immediately began to concoct plans to gain control
of the state. The king was kept in virtual captivity until he reached the age of seventeen,
when, having asserted his rights, Concini was killed, and Marie's dominant power and influence
came to an abrupt end.

Louis XIII. reigned, with his minister, the Prince de Luynes, from 1617 to 1624, when he became
reconciled to his mother and appointed her favorite, Richelieu, his minister. From 1610 to
about 1640, Marie de' Medici exercised more or less influence, always of a nature disastrous
to France.

After the king's death, Anne of Austria, as queen-regent, with Mazarin, directed the destinies
of France. During the ministry of the two cardinals, Richelieu and Mazarin, occurred the political
intrigues and astute diplomatic movements of Mme. de Chevreuse and the unwise and short-sighted
aspirations of Mme. de Longueville. These intimate friends were women of the highest intelligence,
most perfect beauty, and uncapitulating devotion, and were working for the same cause, though
from different motives.

Mme. de Chevreuse was the daughter of M. de Rohan, Duke of Montbazon. She had married M. de
Luynes, the minister of Louis XIII., who overthrew the power of Marie de' Medici, and who,
by initiating his wife into his secrets, gave her the schooling and experience which she later
used to such advantage. De Luynes presented her at court with instructions to ingratiate herself
with the queen—Anne of Austria—and the king. In this design she succeeded so well that she
was soon made superintendent of the household of the queen, and became as influential with
Anne as was her husband with the king.

In 1621 M. de Luynes died; a year later his widow married Claude of Lorraine, Duke of Chevreuse;
but as that was an unhappy union, she soon began her career as an intriguer. On the arrival
of Lord Kensington, the English ambassador, she fell in love with him, that escapade being
the first of a long series; the two proceeded to inveigle Queen Anne into a liaison with the
Duke of Buckingham, which scheme, as history so well records, partly succeeded.

When Mme. de Chevreuse accompanied to England the new queen, Henriette-Marie, wife of Charles
I., both Buckingham and Kensington outdid themselves in showing her attention, Richelieu, fearing
her influence and intrigues at the court of England, hastened the recall of her husband, but
she received through her friends, from the English monarch himself, an invitation to remain;
during the time, she gave birth to a child.

Her next famous undertaking, which involved the lives of various persons of high rank, was
the scheme to persuade Monsieur the Dauphin to refuse to marry Mlle. de Montpensier; Queen
Anne was opposed to this union, and Mme. de Chevreuse gained to their cause a number of influential
friends who were all madly in love with her. The ever vigilant Richelieu having discovered
the plot, Monsieur confessed. In this conspiracy, M. de Chalais lost his head, other plotters
lost their positions, and some were exiled. Mme. de Chevreuse was forced to retire to Lorraine;
there she set in movement a vast plan against Richelieu and France, allying England and various
princes, but, by the arrest of Montaigu, the plot was discovered, the alliance broken up, and
peace restored.

In 1626, by request of England, Mme. de Chevreuse returned to France. For a time she was quiet
and seemed to favor Richelieu, but she soon captivated one of his ministers, the Marquis of
Châteauneuf. Richelieu discovered the latter's weakness, and, having captured his correspondence,
sent him to prison, where he remained for ten years. The fair intriguer was exiled to Dampierre,
the cardinal fearing to send her out of France on account of her influence with the Duke of
Lorraine. She managed to steal into Paris at night and see the queen; when discovered, she
was sent to Touraine where she began the dangerous task of carrying on the correspondence between
the Dukes of Savoy and Lorraine and England, and between Spain and Queen Anne. Even when this
correspondence was intercepted and the queen confessed all, Richelieu was afraid to banish
Mme. de Chevreuse; though he believed her to be at the bottom of all the current intrigues,
he knew that out of France she would stir up the rulers of England and Spain as well as the
Duke of Lorraine and others hostile to the cardinal.

Violence being out of the question, because of her influence in England and of the prominence
of her family, he decided to win her over by kindness; he even sent her money, but she was
too shrewd to permit Richelieu to outwit her, always paying him back in his own coin. However,
that kind of play was too dangerous for her and she escaped to Spain. As soon as her departure
became known, Richelieu set to work every means in his power to bring her back, sending her
an urgent invitation to return and promising to pardon her past. When his messages reached
her, she was already in Madrid, where she was royally received as the friend of the king's
sister, Anne; there, by means of her beauty and wonderful intelligence, she conquered every
cavalier. When the war broke out between France and Spain, she left for England where she was
welcomed like a visiting queen.

Richelieu, anxious for the support of the Duke of Lorraine in his war against Spain and Austria,
needed the coöperation of Mme. de Chevreuse, and with that end in view sent ambassadors to
London to arrange for her return; but an agreement was not an easy matter between two such
astute politicians, and negotiations went on unsuccessfully for over a year. Her subtleness,
apparent docility and invincible precautions were pitted against the artifices and dissimulation
of the cardinal; both employed all the astute manœuvres of diplomacy and exhausted the resources
of consummate skill in gaining the point desired by each. The cardinal failed to convince her
of her safety.

Mme. de Chevreuse soon formed about her a circle of émigrés—Marie de' Medici, Duc La Vallette,
Soubèse, La Vieuville, and many others. This coterie was in open correspondence with Spain,
Austria, and the Duke of Lorraine. From every side, Richelieu felt the intriguing hand and
influence of Mme. de Chevreuse, and decided to put forth another effort to get her to return,
this time sending her husband; but not sure of the latter's sincerity and in fear of him, the
duchess concluded to leave England for Flanders, and, escorted by a squad of dukes and lords,
departed like a queen.

At Brussels, she entered into open relations with Spain, drawing over the Duke of Lorraine.
She was accused of being in the plot of Cinq-Mars and the Duke of Bouillon with Spain; when
Richelieu exposed this to Queen Anne, the latter for the first time became her enemy. Just
at this time of his triumph, Richelieu died, his death being followed soon after by that of
Louis XIII., who left a special order for the exile forever of Mme. de Chevreuse, whom he called
Le Diable. The queen-regent, however, recalled her, and set at liberty her friend, Châteauneuf,
who had been imprisoned for ten years.

When Mme. de Chevreuse returned to Paris after an absence of ten years, her beauty was still
unimpaired, she possessed an experience such as no man of the day could boast, was personally
acquainted with nearly every great statesman and aware of the weak points in every court of
Europe. While she could now count on the support of the majority of the princes, plots were
being formed about the queen-regent, the object of which was to persuade the latter to give
up the friends who had served her faithfully for so many years. La Rochefoucauld was sent to
meet Mme. de Chevreuse and to inform her of the change of attitude of the queen-regent; as
her devoted friend, he advised her to abandon, for the present, all hopes of governing the
queen and to devote herself entirely to regaining her favor and to preparing for the possible
fall of Mazarin.

After securing the release of her friend Châteauneuf, Mme. de Chevreuse set to work to restore
him to his former office of Guard of the Seals, but did not succeed. She then turned her attention
to undermining the power of Mazarin, agitating all émigrés returning to France and starting
the most outspoken denunciation of the policy of the cardinal, his injustice and tyranny against
the nobility. The cries of disapproval became so general that Mazarin was kept busy warding
off the blows aimed at him by his enemy; the latter succeeded in placing Châteauneuf as Chancelier
des ordres du roi and in having his estates restored to him, while Alexandre de Campion she
placed in the household of the queen. Mazarin, living in constant dread of her, managed to
thwart two of her cherished schemes—the restoration to the Duke of Vendôme of the government
of Brittany and the placing of Châteauneuf in the ministry—upon the success of which depended
her own influence and power.

Finding that ruse, flattery, insinuation, and ordinary court intrigues were of no avail, she
turned to other methods. The Importants, a party made up of adventurers and a large number
of the nobility, were making themselves felt more and more; they were opposed to Richelieu
and Mazarin, and Mme. de Chevreuse became their chief and instigator. Failing to succeed with
the cardinal's own methods, she decided to assassinate him, but the plot was discovered, the
Duke of Beaufort was arrested and all the princes of the party of the Importants were ordered
to leave Paris. Mme. de Chevreuse was compelled to depart from court and retire to Dampierre,
and then to Touraine, where she did everything in her power to assist the friends who had compromised
themselves for her. During her first exile she had had the consolation of the friendship of
the queen; but now she was banished by the very friend whom she had served so well and who
had up to this time been able and willing to afford her comfort and protection. Through Lord
Goring, Count Craft, and the Commander de Jars, she opened up correspondence and negotiations
with England, but was again surprised by the vigilant Mazarin and sent to Angoulême; determining
to escape, after many hardships, she successfully reached Liège; from there, as head of all
foreign intrigues against France, she continued to thwart Mazarin's foreign policy.

As soon as the first signs of the Fronde broke out, Mme. de Chevreuse became active and succeeded
in attracting to her the young Marquis de Laigues with whom, later on, she contracted a mariage
de conscience. As ambassador of the Fronde, she prevailed upon Spain to promise troops and
subsidies to her party. After the peace of 1649, she went to Paris where she found almost all
her friends ready to follow her and to pay her homage. It was she who conceived the idea of
an aristocratic league which, under the auspices of the two great princes of the blood, the
Duke of Orléans and the Prince of Condé, would unite the best part of the nobility.

Her plan was to marry her daughter to the Prince de Conti and the young Duc d'Enghien to one
of the daughters of the Duke of Orléans. The contracts were signed and all was in readiness
when Mazarin was exiled, and the following Frondists came into power: the Duke of Orléans at
court, Condé and Turenne at the head of the army, Châteauneuf in the Cabinet, Molé in Parliament,
while Mme. de Chevreuse and Mme. de Longueville managed to keep harmony among all. Queen Anne
in a short time annulled the marriage contracts; and on the return of Mazarin, Mme. de Chevreuse
took up her work with him, the cardinal being wise enough to appreciate the fact that she was
a greater force with than against him.

Strange as it may seem, Mme. de Chevreuse in time became the great acting and controlling force
of royalty, winning over the Duke of Lorraine and becoming a staunch friend to both the regent
and the cardinal; after the death of the latter, she became all-powerful, and it may be said
that she made Colbert what he was. In the fulness of her power, she gradually retired, having
seen, in turn, the passing away or the fall of Richelieu, Mazarin, Louis XIII., Anne of Austria,
the Queen of England, Châteauneuf, the Duke of Lorraine, her daughter, and the Marquis de Laigues.
She ceased plotting, renounced politics and intrigues, and retired to the country, where she
died in 1679.

Mme. de Chevreuse was undoubtedly one of the most important political characters of the seventeenth
century, just as she was also one of its greatest beauties—possibly the most seductive and
charming woman of her epoch. A consummate diplomat and an untiring worker, she was at the head
of more intrigues and plots, had more thrilling adventures, controlled and ruined more men,
than any other woman of her century, if not of all French history. Thinking little of religion,
she was yet in the very midst of the Catholic party; unswerving in her friendships, she scorned
danger, opinion, fortune, for those whom she loved or whose cause she espoused; an implacable
foe, she was the most dreaded enemy of both Richelieu and Mazarin.

With a remarkable ability for grasping the details of an antagonist's position she combined
all the other qualities of an astute politician; thus, upon the desired consummation of her
plots she brought to bear a sagacity, finesse, and energy that baffled all her adversaries.
With her, politics became a passion and a necessity; even while in exile, her zeal was unflagging
and she intrigued over all Europe. Scorning peril as well as all petty restraints, and characterized
by courage, loyalty, and devotion, she was without an equal among the members of her sex.

Mme. de Hautefort, while less powerful than Mme. de Chevreuse and of quite a different type,
is associated with her in the history of the time. Pure, beautiful, and virtuous, she everywhere
inspired love and respect; without political aspirations and seeking neither power nor favors,
she refused to deliver her soul or betray her friends for Richelieu or Mazarin; she was their
enemy, but not their rival.

Because of her desire to serve the queen, of whom she was an intimate friend, and to further
her interests, she was connected with the first intrigues of Mme. de Chevreuse, but as an innocent
and disinterested party. Louis XIII. conceived an ardent attachment for her, and Richelieu
endeavored to win her over to his policies, but she remained faithful to her queen and refused
to sacrifice her honor to the king.

The cardinal did not rest until he had prevailed upon the king to exile her, ostensibly for
only fifteen days; and as her unselfishness and generosity had made an impression upon the
whole court, her departure was much regretted, though no demonstration was made. When, after
the king's death, Mme. de Hautefort returned to Paris, she soon reëstablished herself in the
affection, admiration, and respect of her associates.

As Mazarin gained ascendency over Queen Anne, that regent changed her policy and abandoned
her former friends. Mme. de Hautefort was opposed to the queen on account of her liaison with
her minister and her lack of fidelity to those who, in time of trouble, had served her so well.
As dame d'atours, she was forced either to close her eyes to all scenes between the cardinal
and Anne or to combat the regent and resign. She was not to be tempted by the honors and favors
with which the two sought to purchase her criminal connivance or her silence; preferring poverty
and exile to a guilty conscience, she soon retired to the convent of the Daughters of Sainte-Marie,
where she was followed by her admirers, who were willing to place themselves and their fortunes
at her disposal. At the age of thirty she accepted the hand of the Duke of Schomberg, and,
away from the court and its intrigues, lived in peace.

Indifferent to the powerful, but kind and compassionate to the poor and oppressed, Mme. de
Hautefort is a type of those great women of the seventeenth century who stood for honor, courage,
generosity, sympathy, and virtue; fervently, even austerely, religious, she was yet far removed
from anything resembling bigotry. Among the ladies of the Hôtel de Rambouillet, she was one
of the most popular; her vivacity, modesty, and reserve, combined with a tall figure, imposing
bearing, and large, expressive blue eyes, won the hearts of many cavaliers, among whom the
most prominent were the Dukes of Lorraine and La Rochefoucauld.

A close second to Mme. de Chevreuse in influence and power, was Mme. de Longueville, a woman
of exquisite and aristocratic beauty, of brilliant mind, and an adept in the art of conversation.
Tender and kind, but ambitious, she, like many others of her time and sex, had two distinct
periods—one of conquest and one of penitence and pious devotion.

Born in a prison at Vincennes during the captivity of her father, the great Henry of Bourbon,
Prince of Condé, she in time developed remarkable personal charms. Her early days were spent
at the convent of the Carmelites and at the Hôtel de Rambouillet, her mind—in these opposite
worlds of religion and society—being divided between pious meditations and romantic dreams.
At the time of the execution at Toulouse of her uncle, M. de Montmorency, she seriously considered
entering the Carmelite convent.

Upon making her social début, she immediately became one of the leaders about whom all the
gallants gathered. She formed a fast friendship with Mme. de Sablé, Mme. de Rambouillet, Mme.
de Bouteville, and Mlle. du Vigean. Her beauty, which was quite phenomenal, soon became the
subject of poetry. Voltaire wrote:

  "De perles, d'astres et de fleurs,
  Bourbon, le ciel fit tes couleurs,
  Et mit dedans tout ce mélange
    L'esprit d'un ange!
  L'on jugerait par la blancheur
  De Bourbon, et par sa fraicheur,
  Qu'elle a prit naissance des lis."

[The heaven made thy colors, Bourbon, of pearls, of stars, of flowers, and to all this mixture
added the spirit of an angel. One would judge by the whiteness and freshness of Bourbon that
she was born of the lilies.]

In 1642, at the age of twenty-three, she was married, against her will, to M. de Longueville
who was, after the princes of the blood, the greatest seigneur of France; he was old and indifferent,
and enamored of another woman, while she was young and full of hopes, ambitions, and love.
His conduct, being anything but correct, immediately set the young wife, with her instincts
of refinement and principles and habits of the précieuses, against her husband. The advent
of a rival in the person of Mme. de Montbazon, one of the most noted beauties of the day, made
the state of affairs even more unpleasant, the humiliation being so much keener because it
was on account of her charms that Montbazon was preferred to the wife. The latter's fate was
a cruel one; she could not respect her husband, and, for her, respect was the only road to
love. She continued to live at the Hôtel de Longueville and to attend all court functions,
where, through her beauty, she early became the object of much attention from the young lords,
among whom Coligny seemed to impress her more than any other.

About this time occurred the deaths of Richelieu and Louis XIII., and the Importants, flocking
to Paris to regain their rights and to share in the spoils of the new regency, began to make
themselves felt. The leaders expected great favors from Anne of Austria who had been forced
into obedience by the cardinal, but she was a great disappointment to them. A born lady of
leisure, she was only too glad to be relieved of the arduous duties of government, and this
her minister, Mazarin, quickly proceeded to do; his first object was to crush the influence
of the Importants, who were very powerful in the salons, society, and politics.

The house of Condé declared in favor of Mazarin, but at first this did not affect Mme. de Longueville,
whose kindness of heart and indifference to politics and intrigues were generally known. Probably,
she never would have taken a part in the Fronde had it not been for the rival who had been
seeking, by every possible means, to injure her reputation—a design which Mme. de Montbazon
well-nigh accomplished by declaring that two letters which, at a reception, had fallen from
the pocket of Coligny had been written by Mme. de Longueville. In reality, they had been written
by Mme. de Fouquerolles to the Marquis of Maulevrier. Mme. la Princesse, mother of Mme. de
Longueville demanded full reparation, threatening that unless it was at once granted the house
of Condé would withdraw from court, and Mazarin managed to induce the queen to compel Mme.
de Montbazon to apologize publicly. It may be of interest to give, in full, the apology, to
show the nature of court etiquette, hypocrisy, and intrigue of that day. Mme. de Montbazon
called at the hôtel of the princess and spoke the following words, which were written on a
paper attached to her fan: "Madame, I come here to attest that I am innocent of the spitefulness
of which they accuse me, there being no person of honor capable of uttering such a calumny;
and if I had committed such a crime, I would have submitted to the punishments that the queen
would have imposed upon me, would never have shown myself before the world again, and would
have asked your pardon. I beg you to believe that I shall never be lacking in the respect that
I owe you because of the opinion which I have of the merit and virtue of Mme. de Longueville."
To which the princess replied: "I very willingly receive the assurance you give me of having
had no part in the spitefulness that was published, deferring all to the order the queen has
given me."

After this episode, the princess refused to be in the same place with Mme. de Montbazon. On
one occasion, Mme. de Chevreuse had invited the queen to a collation at a place where the queen
enjoyed walking; she requested the princess to join her, giving her word of honor that Mme.
de Montbazon would not be there; she was present, however, and the princess was about to leave
when the queen ordered Mme. de Montbazon to feign illness and retire; this she refused to do
and remained, whereupon the queen and the princess left, and shortly afterward Mme. de Montbazon
received orders to leave Paris.

This excited the Importants to fever heat and a plot was formed, with Mme. de Chevreuse as
the leader, to assassinate the cardinal. Shortly after this, Coligny, as champion of the cause
of Mme. de Longueville, challenged the Duc de Guise to a duel. The whole court was made up
of two parties: the Importants with Mme. de Montbazon and Mme. de Chevreuse; and Condé and
Mme. de Longueville with their friends; the result was the death of Coligny. Mme. de Longueville
was a true précieuse and hardly loved Coligny, but allowed him and any other to serve and adore
her in a respectable way—a principle followed by the better women of the age, such as Mme.
de Rambouillet and Mme. de Sablé.

Some time after these occurrences, Mme. de Longueville was stricken with smallpox which, fortunately,
did not impair her beauty; it was said, on the contrary, that in taking away its first flower
it left all the brilliancy which, joined to her culture and charming languor, made her one
of the most attractive persons in France. La Rochefoucauld has left the following picture of
her: "This princess had all the advantages of esprit and beauty to as great a degree as if
nature had taken pleasure in completing, in her person, a perfect work; but these qualities
shone less brilliantly on account of one characteristic which led her to imbibe so thoroughly
the sentiments of those who adored her that she no longer recognized her own."

After her twenty-fifth year, Mme. de Longueville became more and more imbued with the general
spirit of the seventeenth century: coquetry and bel esprit became her chief occupation. The
glory of her brother, the Duc d'Enghien, who was rapidly becoming a power, and the probability
of the house of Condé becoming dangerous, made Mazarin realize that Mme. de Longueville was
to be reckoned with, inasmuch as she had full control over D'Enghien and was constantly instilling
new ideas into his mind and requesting from him the distribution of all sorts of favors. Mazarin,
in 1646, succeeded in causing her withdrawal to Münster for one year; there she ruled as queen
of the Congress. On the death of her father, the Prince of Condé, and at the request of her
mother to come home for her lying-in, the husband of Mme. de Longueville consented to her return
to Paris.

In the meantime, everything was being done by the Importants to win over the house of Condé
and cause a breach between it and Mazarin. The court at this time was in full glory; to amuse
the queen-regent, Mazarin was lavishing money on artists from Italy, and the nobility outdid
itself in its attempts to rival royalty in elegance and luxury. Upon her return, everyone paid
homage to Mme. de Longueville; it was at this period that La Rochefoucauld, who was anxious
about his position at court, as he was accused of being in league with the Importants and was
therefore refused the favors he desired, met Mme. de Longueville who was in the height of her
glory and in full control of the most prominent house of the time—that of the Duc d'Enghien
and the Prince de Conti, her brothers.

In order to conquer for himself what the cardinal would not grant him, La Rochefoucauld put
forth every effort to win Mme. de Longueville; captivated by his fine appearance, his chivalry
and, above all, by his powerful intellect, she gave herself up entirely, willing to share his
destiny, to sacrifice all her interests, even those of her family, and the deepest sentiment
of her life—the tenderness for her brother.

France at this time, 1648, was in a position to gain for herself a peace with the world at
her own terms, and her future seemed to be without a cloud. It was the Fronde that checked
her growth and glory, and the cause of this was the estrangement of the house of Condé through
the action of Mme. de Longueville in passing with her husband over to the party of the Importants,
she being the first of her family to forsake the government. Under the leadership of La Rochefoucauld,
she cast her lot with the opposing party, allowing herself to be identified with the interests
of those who had endeavored to tarnish her early reputation. Becoming a leader with Mme. de
Chevreuse and Mme. de Montbazon (her rival), she easily won over her young brother, the Prince
de Conti. After the imprisonment of her husband and her two brothers, she began her real career
as a woman of tactics, politics, and generalship.

With the connivance of Mme. de Chevreuse and the Princess Palatine, a general plan had been
formed to create a new government by the union of the aristocracy. The marriage, already spoken
of, between the Duke of Enghien and one of the daughters of the Duke of Orléans and that arranged
between the Prince of Conti and the daughter of Mme. de Chevreuse were to have united the Fronde
with the house of Condé. The alliances, however, were declared off, and Mme. de Chevreuse went
over to the cardinal and the queen; Condé's fall and Mazarin's success followed, being the
result, mainly, of the determination of Mme. de Chevreuse to avenge herself upon Condé for
having consented to the breaking of the marriage contracts.

Mme. de Longueville did all in her power to continue the conflict that Condé had undertaken,
but, exhausted by continual excitement and ill success, she was compelled to retire. After
this, her life, spent in Normandy, at the Carmelites' convent and at Port Royal, became a long
penance, which increased in austerity until she died in 1679. Thus, her career was at first
one of unblemished brilliancy, then a period of elegant and intellectual debauch, and finally
one of expiation.

"Her politics," says Sainte-Beuve, "considered in the ensemble, are nothing more than a desire
to please, to shine—a capricious love. Her character lacked consistency and self-will, her
mind was keen, ready, subtle, ingenious, but not reasonable."

In her convent life, her crowning virtue was humility. Her enemies did not cease to attack
her, but she received all their affronts with the noblest resignation. The following testimonies
are taken from a Jansenist manuscript of 1685:

"She never said anything to her own advantage. She made use of as many occasions as she could
find for humiliating herself without any affectation. What she said, she said so well that
it could not be better said. She listened much, never interrupted, and never showed any eagerness
to speak. She spoke sensibly, modestly, charitably, and without passion. To court her was to
speak with equity and without passion of everyone and to esteem the good in all. Her whole
exterior, her voice, her face, her gestures, were a perfect music; and her mind and body served
her so well in expressing what she wished to make heard, that she appeared the most perfect
actress in the world."

Her love for La Rochefoucauld was the secret of her failure in life. When she experienced the
disappointments of her married life and discovered that her dream of being loved by her husband
could not be realized, she looked to other sources for diversion. She was not an intriguing
woman like Mme. de Chevreuse, but one of ambitions which were incited by her love for and interest
in the objects of her affection. Although she carried on flirtations with Coligny and the Duke
of Nemours, she really loved no one but La Rochefoucauld, to whom she sacrificed her reputation
and tranquillity, her duties and interests. For him she took up the cause of the Fronde; for
him she was a mere slave, her entire existence being given up to his love, his whims, his service;
when he failed her, she was lost, exhausted, and retired to a convent at the age of thirty-five
and in the full bloom of her beauty. Her professed lover simply used her as a means to an end,
seeking only his own interests in the Fronde, while she sought his; and this is the explanation
of her seeming inconsistency of conduct. In her religious life she was happy and contented;
surrounded by her friends, she lived peacefully for over twenty years.

Thus, Marie de' Medici, a foreigner, Mme. de Chevreuse, and Mme. de Longueville represent the
political women of the first half of the seventeenth century; Anne of Austria, who was of foreign
extraction, was a mere tool in the hands of Mazarin, and exerted little influence in general.

One of the principal differences between the conspicuous political women of the sixteenth and
those of the seventeenth centuries lies in the possession by the latter of less personal force
than that wielded by the former, who allowed nothing to thwart their plans. The women of both
periods were beautiful, but those of the earlier one were of a magnetic and sensual type, "inspiring
insensate passions and exciting a feverish unrest," thus ruling man through his lower instincts.
The lack of refinement, sympathy, and charity reflected in their actions is in glaring contrast
to the dignity, repose, reserve, and womanly modesty and grace displayed by their less masterful
successors of the seventeenth century.

Chapter IV

Woman in Society and Literature

At the beginning of the seventeenth century, after the death of Henry IV., there were three
classes in France,—the nobility, clergy, and third estate,—each with a distinct field of action:
the nobility dominated customs, morality, and the government; the clergy supervised instruction
and education; the third estate furnished the funds, that is, its work made possible the operations
of the other classes.

At court, various dialects and diverse pronunciations were in use by the representatives of
the different provinces; the written language, though understood generally, was not used. Warriors
were largely in evidence among the members of the nobility and court; entirely indifferent
to decency of expression, purity of morals, and refinement of manners, and even boasting of
their scorn of all restrictions, they took their boisterous rudeness into the drawing room
where their influence was unlimited. The king, being of the same class, knew no better, or,
if he did, had not the moral courage to compel a change; thus, the institution of a reformatory
movement fell to the lot of woman.

Then, however, woman was but little better than man; to gain his esteem, she would first have
to make radical changes in her own behavior and become self-respecting. The customs of the
time placed many disadvantages in the way of her social and moral reform. As a rule, the young
girl was confined to a convent until she reached marriageable age; when that came and with
it an undesired husband, she was ready for almost any prank that would relieve the monotony
of her uncongenial marital relations. The convents themselves were so corrupt or so easily
corruptible, that, very frequently, young girls did not leave them with unstained purity. To
certain of these institutions, women and men of standing often bought the privilege of access
at any time, to drink, dine, sleep, or attend sacred exercises with other persons; thus, libertinage
was not uncommon within the walls of those so-called religious establishments.

Mme. de Rambouillet felt most keenly the degradation of woman and resolved to act against it
by combating everything that could offend taste or delicacy. As in the beginning of every great
age, all things tended to greatness. A period of discipline and coördination set in, and elegance,
grace, and refinement became the most pronounced characteristics of the time; rough, crude,
robust, vigorous, and energetic characteristics, combined with coarseness and brutality, were
eliminated during the seventeenth century. The women who caused this general purification of
morals and language were given the name of précieuses and the movement that of préciosité.

The extent to which the précieuses went in inventing locutions by which they were to be recognized
as elegant, is generally exaggerated; Livet says that out of six hundred women hardly thirty
could be accused of such fatuity. The wiser and more conservative women did adopt a large number
of expressions which were necessary for refinement of language and these classicisms were exaggerated
by some of the provincial classes who received their expressions from books and the theatre;
such authors as Corneille, etc., were studied and their poetic licenses introduced into spoken
language. These follies, pictured by Molière, naturally afforded much amusement in cultured
circles where every event of the day was discussed, from the vital affairs of the government
to the æsthetic interests of art and literature.

The tremendous vogue of the seventeenth century salons or drawing rooms naturally gave a stimulus
to literature; but, as they were so numerous and as each one claimed its large coterie of literary
men, they proved to be disastrous to some while helpful to others. Two distinct classes of
writers arose: the one, serious, elevated, thoughtful, classical, and independent of the salon,
is well represented by Molière, Pascal, Boileau; the other, light, affected, gallant, superficial,
was composed of the innumerable unimportant writers of the day.

The salon movement must not be confounded with two other social movements or forces—those of
court and society; while at the former all was formality, the latter was still gross and brutish.
The Marquis de Caze, at a supper seized a leg of mutton and struck his neighbor in the face
with it, sprinkling her with gravy, whereupon she laughed heartily; the Count of Brégis, slapped
by the lady with whom he was dancing, tore off her headdress before the whole company; Louis
XIII., noticing in the crowd admitted to see him dine a lady dressed too décolleté, filled
his mouth with wine and squirted the liquid into the bosom of the unfortunate girl; the Prince
of Condé, indulging in customary brutishness, ate dung and had the ladies follow his example;
these are fair illustrations of social elegances.

As will be seen, nothing of this nature occurred in the salon of Mme. de Rambouillet, whose
object was to charm her leisure hours, distract and amuse the husband whom she adored, and
be agreeable to her friends. Her amusements were most original—concerts, mythological representations,
suppers, fireworks, comedies, readings, always something new, often in the form of a surprise
or a joke. Of the latter, the best known is the one played on the Count of Guise whose fondness
for mushrooms had become proverbial; on one occasion when he had consumed an immense number
of them at table, his valet, who had been bribed, took in all his doublets; on trying to put
them on again, he found them too narrow by fully four inches. "What in the world is the matter—am
I all swollen—could it be due to having eaten too many mushrooms?" "That is quite possible,"
said Chaudebonne; "yesterday you ate enough of them to split." All the accomplices joined in
ridiculing him, and he began to squirm and show a somewhat livid color. Mass was rung, and
he was compelled to attend in his chamber robe. Laughing, he said: "That would be a fine end—to
die at the age of twenty-one from having eaten too many mushrooms." In the meantime, Chaudebonne
advised the use of an antidote which he wrote and handed to the count, who read: "Take a good
pair of scissors and cut your doublet." Only then did the victim comprehend the joke.

One day, Voiture, having met a bear trainer, took him with his animals to the room of the Marquise
de Rambouillet; she, turning at the noise, saw four large paws resting upon her screen. She
readily forgave the author of the surprise. Du Bled relates many more of these innocent jokes.

Among the congenial people of the salons, the relations were always of the most cordial, friendly,
free, and intimate nature; they were like the members of a large family. By them, love was
not considered a weakness but a mark of the elevation of the soul, and every man had to be
sensitive to beauty. When the Duchesse d'Aiguillon presented to society her nephew, who later
became the Duke of Richelieu, she advised and encouraged him to complete his education and
make of himself an honnête homme by association with the elder Mlle. du Vigean and other women;
the object of this procedure was to polish his manners, elevate his instincts, and develop
ease in deportment toward the ladies. There was no hint of the vulgar or licentious pleasures
which became the characteristics of love in the eighteenth century.

The woman who inaugurated the movement toward purity of morals, decency of language, polish
of manners, and courtesy to woman, was Mme. de Rambouillet. Cathérine de Vivonne, Marquise
de Rambouillet, whose mother was a great Roman lady and whose father had been ambassador to
Rome, inherited that pride of race and independence of spirit for which she was so well known.
In 1600, she was married, at the age of twelve, to the Marquis de Rambouillet who was her senior
by eleven years, but who treated her with deference and respect rare at that time. Husband
and wife were perfectly congenial, and their happy and peaceful life was a great contrast to
that led by the majority of the married couples of the day. Absolutely irreproachable in conduct,
she set a worthy example for all women who knew her.

Her high ideals, independence of character, family duties, and the general debauchery, which
was incompatible with her rigid chastity and "precocious wisdom," caused her to withdraw from
the court in 1608; two years later, she decided to open her salon to such aristocratic and
cultured persons as appreciated womanly grace, wit, and taste. Her familiarity with Italian
and Spanish history and art placed her at the head of intellectual as well as moral movements.
She surrounded herself with the distinguished men and women of the day, and her salon, which
in every detail was decorated and arranged for pleasure, immediately became, through the exquisite
charm with which she presided, the one goal of the cultured; her blue room was the sanctuary
of polite society and she was its high priestess.

The highest ambition of the habitué of the salon was to sing, dance, and converse artistically
and with refinement. A reaction against the general social state immediately set in, even the
brusque warriors acquiring a refinement of speech and manners; and as conversation developed
and became a power, the great lords began to respect men of letters and to cultivate their
society. Anyone who possessed good manners, vivacity, and wit was admitted to the salon, where
a new and more elevating sociability was the aspiration.

Mme. de Rambouillet was very particular in the choice of friends, and they were always sincere
and devoted, knowing her to be undesirous of political favors and incapable of stooping to
intrigue. Even Richelieu could not, as compensation to him for a favor to her husband, induce
her to act as spy on some of the frequenters of her salon.

While not a woman of remarkable beauty, she was the personification of reason and virtue; her
unassuming frankness, exquisite tact, and exceptional reserve discouraged all advances on the
part of those gallants who frequented every mansion and were always prepared to lay siege to
the heart of any fair woman. Her wide culture, versatility, modesty, goodness, fidelity, and
disinterestedness caused her to be universally sought. Mlle. de Scudéry, in her novel Cyrus,
leaves a fine portrait of her:

"The spirit and soul of this marvellous person surpass by far her beauty: the first has no
limits in its extent and the other has no equal in its generosity, goodness, justice, and purity.
The intellect of Cléomire (Mme. de Rambouillet) is not like that of those whose minds have
no brilliancy except that which nature has given them, for she has cultivated it carefully,
and I think I can say that there are no belles connaissances that she has not acquired. She
knows various languages, and is ignorant of hardly anything that is worth knowing; but she
knows it all without making a display of knowing it; and one would say, in hearing her talk,
'she is so modest that she speaks admirably of things, through simple common sense only'; on
the contrary, she is versed in all things; the most advanced sciences are not beyond her, and
she is perfectly acquainted with the most difficult arts. Never has any person possessed such
a delicate knowledge as hers of fine works of prose and poetry; she judges them, however, with
wonderful moderation, never abandoning la bienséance (the seemliness) of her sex, though she
is far above it. In the whole court, there is not a person with any spirit and virtue that
does not go to her house. Nothing is considered beautiful if it does not have her approval;
no stranger ever comes who does not desire to see Cléomire and do her homage, and there are
no excellent artisans who do not wish to have the glory of her approbation of their works.
All people who write in Phénicie have sung her praises; and she possesses the esteem of everyone
to such a marvellous degree that there is no one who has ever seen her who has not said thousands
of favorable things about her—who has not been charmed likewise by her beauty, esprit, sweetness,
and generosity."

Mlle. de Scudéry describes the salon of Mme. de Rambouillet in the following:

"Cléomire (Mme. de Rambouillet) had built, according to her own design, a place which is one
of the finest in the world; she has found the art of constructing a palace of vast extent in
a situation of mediocre grandeur. Order, harmony, and elegance are in all the apartments, and
in the furniture also; everything is magnificent, even unique; the lamps are different from
those of other palaces, her cabinets are full of objects which show the judgment of her who
chose them. In her palace, the air is always scented; many baskets full of magnificent flowers
make a continual spring in her room, and the place which she frequents ordinarily is so agreeable
and so imaginative as to make one feel as if she were in some enchanted place."

The very names of the frequenters of the salon of Mme. de Rambouillet testify to the prominence
of her position in the world of culture: Mlle. de Scudéry, Mlle. du Vigean; Mmes. de Longueville,
de la Vergne, de La Fayette, de Sablé, de Hautefort, de Sévigné, de la Suze, Marie de Gonzague,
Duchesse d'Aiguillon, Mmes. des Houlières, Cornuel, Aubry, and their respective husbands; the
great literary men: Rotrou, Scarron, Saint-Evremond, Malherbe, Racan, Chapelain, Voiture, Conrart,
Benserade, Pellisson, Segrais, Vaugelas, Ménage, Tallemant des Réaux, Balzac, Mairet, Corneille,
Bossuet, etc. In the entire period of the French salon, no other such brilliant gathering of
men and women of social standing, princely blood, genuine intelligence, and literary ability
ever assembled from motives other than those of politics or intrigue; here was a gathering
purely social and for purposes of mutual refinement. The nobility went through a process of
polishing, and the men of letters sharpened their intelligence and modified their manners and
customs.

Julie, Duchess of Montausier, and Angélique, daughters of Mme. de Rambouillet, were popular,
but the former lost much of her charm after she sacrificed her independence of thought and
action by becoming governess of the children of the queen. Julie was the centre of attraction
for all perfumed rhymesters, all sighers in prose and verse, who thronged about her. The stern
and unbending Duke of Montausier was so under her influence that in 1641 he arranged and laid
before her shrine the famous guirlande which was illustrated by Robert and to which nineteen
authors contributed. After her marriage to the duke, the Hôtel de Rambouillet may be said to
have ceased to exist, as madame, who was seventy years of age, had for a number of years kept
herself in the background, and Julie had become the acknowledged leader.

With the outbreak of the Fronde, friends were separated by their individual interests and the
reunions at the salon were interrupted from about 1650 to 1652. After the death of her husband,
Mme. de Rambouillet retired, to reside with her daughter, Mme. de Montausier; after that, she
seldom appeared in public. She hardly lived to see the spirit of the salon changed to the real
préciosité—the direction and aim she gave to it being gradually abandoned.

In her salon, for nearly fifty years, no pedantry, no loose manners, no questionable characters,
no social or political intrigues, no discourtesies of any kind, were recorded; hers was a reign
of dignity and grace, of purity of language, manners, and morals. She died in 1665, at the
advanced age of seventy-seven, esteemed and mourned by the entire social and intellectual world
of France. Her influence was incalculable; it was the first time in the history of France that
refined taste, intellectuality, and virtue had won importance, influence, and power.

It must be remembered that in the first period of the salon there were no blue-stockings, no
pedants: these were later developments. It was, primarily, a gathering which found pleasure
in parties, excursions, concerts, balls, fireworks, dramatic performances, living tableaux;
the last form of amusement very strongly influenced the development of the art, for in the
galleries there appeared a surprisingly large number of portraits of the women of the day in
character—sometimes as a nymph, sometimes as a goddess.

The salon, in its first phase, showed and developed tolerance in religion as well as in art
and literature. It also encouraged progress and displayed acute discrimination, keeping pace
with the time in all that was new and meritorious. It developed individual liberty, public
interest, criticism, good taste, and the elegant, clear, and precise conversational language
in which France has excelled up to the present day.

When about to build the Hôtel Pisani, Mme. de Rambouillet, having no love for architects, planned
its construction without their assistance. She revolutionized the architecture of the time
by introducing large and high doors and windows and putting the stairway to one side in order
to secure a large suite of rooms. She was also the first to decorate a room in other colors
than red or tan. The construction of her hôtel completely changed domestic architecture; and
it may be noted that when the Luxembourg was to be built, the designers were instructed to
examine, for ideas, the Hôtel de Rambouillet.

Legouvé gives as the object and mission of Mme. de Rambouillet: "to combat the sensualism of
Rabelais, Villon, and Marot, to reform society through love by reforming love through chastity;
to place women at the head of civilization, by beginning a crusade against vice in the disguise
of sentiment. The word 'fame' must, in the seventeenth century, apply to both man and woman,
meaning honor for the one and purity for the other. Her ideal falls with the accession of Louis
XIV.; the dazzling luxury of royalty hardly conceals, under its exterior elegance, the profound
and deep-seated grossness of Versailles and Marly."

To Mme. de Rambouillet, then, belongs the distinction of having been the first to bring together
men of letters and great lords on a footing of social equality and for mutual benefit. Her
salon and friends continued in the seventeenth century what Marguerite d'Angoulême had begun
in the first part of the sixteenth—an intellectual, social, and moral reform.

Many salons which were all more or less patterned after that of Rambouillet sprang into existence.
Among these the Academy of the Vicomtesse d'Auchy, with Malherbe as president and tyrant, was
of little influence as far as women were concerned. The members were all of second-rate importance,
and Malherbe tolerated only the discussion of his verses, while Mme. d'Auchy was better known
for her splendid neck than for any intellectuality. Every salon had a master of ceremonies,
who performed the rite of presentation; these men were frequently abbés, and some of them,
such as Du Buisson and Testu, became famous.

Among the most noted of these salons was that of the celebrated beauty, Ninon de Lenclos, she
who called the précieuses the "Jansenists of love," an expression which became very popular.
Her salon was situated on the Rue des Tournelles. Ninon de Lenclos was a woman of the most
brilliant mind and exquisite taste, and it was at her hôtel that Molière first read his Tartuffe
before Condé, La Fontaine, Boileau, Lulli, Racine, and Chapelle, and it was there that he received
the principal ideas for his drama.

Ninon became famous for making staunch friends of her former lovers, in which connection some
interesting tales are told. She was the mother of two children; upon the arrival of the first,
a heated discussion arose between Count d'Estrées and Abbé d'Effiat, both claiming the honor
of paternity. When the mother was consulted, she made no attempt to conceal her amusement;
finally, the rivals threw dice for "father or not father."

The other child, whose father was the Marquis de Gersay, was the victim of an unnatural passion
for his mother with whom, when a young man, he fell desperately in love, being ignorant of
their relation. While pleading his cause, he learned from her lips the secret, and, in despair,
blew out his brains, a tragedy which apparently had no effect upon the mother. At one time,
at the request of the clergy Ninon was sent, for impiety, to the convent of the Benedictines
at Lagny.

Among her friends she counted the greatest men and women of the day and her salon was the foyer
of savoir-vivre, of letters and art. At the age of sixty she met the Great Condé, who dismounted
to greet her, something that he very seldom did, as he was not in the habit of paying compliments
to women. The saying: Elle eut l'estime de Lenclos [she had the esteem of Lenclos] became a
popular manner of expressing the fact that a certain woman was especially esteemed. Even to
the last (she died at the age of eighty-five), Ninon preserved her grace, beauty, and intelligence.
Colombey calls her La mère spirituelle de Voltaire [the spiritual mother of Voltaire].

The generality of women had their lovers; even the famous Mlle. de Scudéry, in spite of her
homeliness—she was a dark, large-boned, and lean sort of old maid—had admirers galore; among
the latter was Pellisson who was said to be so ugly "that he really abused the privilege—which
man enjoys—of being homely."

The hôtel of the famous poet Scarron—Hôtel de l'Impécuniosité—received almost all the frequenters
of Ninon's salon. At the former place there were no restrictions as to the manner of enjoyment;
after elevating and edifying conversation at the salon of Ninon, the members would repair to
that of Scarron for a feast of broutilles rabelaisiennes [Rabelaisian tidbits].

The salon of Mme. de Montbazon had its frequenters who, however, were attracted mainly by her
beauty; she was, to use the words of one of her friends, "One of those beauties that delight
the eye and provoke a vigorous appetite." Her salon was one of suitors rather than of intellectuality
or harmless sociability.

The most famous of the men's salons was the Temple, constructed in 1667 by Jacques de Souvré
and conducted from 1681 to 1720 by Phillipe de Vendôme and his intendant, Abbé de Chaulieu.
These reunions, especially under the latter, were veritable midnight convivia; he himself boasted
of never having gone to bed one night in thirty years without having been carried there dead
drunk, a custom to which he remained "faithful unto death." His boon companion was La Duchesse
de Bouillon. Most of his frequenters were jolly good persons, utterly destitute of the sense
of sufficiency in matters of carousing; the better people declined his invitations.

After that of Mme. de Rambouillet, there were, in the seventeenth century, but two great salons
that exerted a lasting influence and that were not saturated with the decadent préciosité.
Of these the salon of Mlle. de Scudéry has been called the salon of the bourgeoisie, because
the majority of its frequenters belonged to the third estate, which was rapidly acquiring power
and influence.

Mlle. de Scudéry, who was born in 1608 and lived through the whole century, saw society develop,
and therefore knew it better than did any of her contemporaries. Having lost her parents early
in life, her uncle reared her and she received advantages such as fell to the lot of few women
of her condition; she was given an excellent education in literature, art, and the languages.

Until the marriage of her brother, she was his constant and devoted companion, exiling herself
to Marseilles when he was appointed governor of Notre Dame de La Garde, and returning to Paris
with him in 1647. She first collaborated with him in a literary production of about eighty
volumes. In their works, the brother furnished the rough draft, the dramatic episodes, adventures,
and the Romanesque part, while she added the literary finish through charming character sketches,
conversation, sentimental analyses, and letters. With a strong inclination toward society,
and constantly fulfilling its obligations, she would from day to day write up her conversations
of the evening before.

An interesting anecdote is told in connection with the travels and coöperation of Mlle. de
Scudéry and her brother; once, on the way to Paris, while stopping over night at Lyons, they
were discussing the fate of one of their heroes, one proposing death and the other rescue,
one poison and the other a more cruel death; a gentleman from Auvergne happened to overhear
them and immediately notified the people of the inn, thinking it was a question of assassinating
the king; the brother and sister were thrown into prison and only with great difficulty were
they able to explain matters the next morning. From this incident Scribe drew the material
for his drama, L'Auberge ou les Brigands sans le Savoir.

At the Hôtel de Rambouillet where Mlle. de Scudéry was received early, she won everyone by
her modesty, simplicity, esprit, and lovable disposition, and, in spite of her homeliness and
poor figure, she attracted many platonic lovers. She was one of the few brilliant and famous
women of the seventeenth century whose popularity was due solely to admirable qualities of
mind and soul. With her, friendship became a cult, and it was in time of trouble that her friends
received the strongest proof of her affection. She preferred to incur disgrace and the disfavor
of Mazarin rather than forsake Condé and Madame de Longueville; to them she dedicated the ten
volumes, successively, of her novel, Cyrus; the last volume was published after Mme. de Longueville's
retirement and partial disgrace.

After the brilliant society of the Hôtel de Rambouillet had been broken up by the marriage
of Julie and the operations of the Fronde, and after her brother's marriage in 1654, Mlle.
de Scudéry became independent and established the custom of receiving her friends on Saturday;
these receptions became famous under the name of Samedi, and besides the regular rather bourgeois
gathering, the most brilliant talent and highest nobility flocked to them, regardless of rank
or station, wealth or influence. Pellisson, the great master, the prince, the Apollo of her
Saturdays, was a man of wonderfully inventive genius, and possessed in a higher degree than
any of his contemporaries the art of inventing surprises for the society that lived on novelty.
When, on account of his devotion to Fouquet, he was imprisoned in the Bastille, Mlle. de Scudéry
managed to persuade Colbert to brighten his confinement by permitting him to see friends and
relatives. Part of every day she spent in his prison, conversing and reading; and this is but
one instance of her fidelity and friendship.

Mlle. de Scudéry, considering all men as aspirants for authority who, when husbands, degenerate
into tyrants, preferred to retain her independence. Her ideas on love were very peculiar and
were innovations at the time: she wished to be loved, but her love must be friendship—a pure,
platonic love, in which her lover must be her all, her confidant, the participator in her sorrows
and her conversation; and his happiness must be in her alone; he must, without feeling passion,
love her for herself, and she must have the same feeling toward him. These sentiments are expressed
in her novels, from which the following extracts are taken:

"When friendship becomes love in the heart of a lover or when this love is mingled with friendship
without destroying it, there is nothing so sweet as this kind of love; for as violent as it
is, it is always held somewhat more in check than is ordinary love; it is more durable, more
tender, more respectful, and even more ardent, although it is not subject to so many tumultuous
caprices as is that love which arises without friendship. It can be said that love and friendship
flow together like two streams, the more celebrated of which obscures the name of the other."
... "They agreed on even the conditions of their love; for Phaon solemnly promised Sapho (Mlle.
de Scudéry)—who desired it thus—not to ask of her anything more than the possession of her
heart, and she, also, promised him to receive only him in hers. They told each other all their
thoughts, they understood them even without confessing them. Peace, however, was not so completely
established that their affection could not become languishing or cool; for, although they loved
each other as much as one can love, they at times complained of not being loved enough, and
they had sufficient little difficulties to always leave something new to wish for; but they
never had any troubles that were serious enough to essentially disturb their repose."

Mlle. de Scudéry was mistress of the art of conversation, speaking without affectation and
equally well on all affairs, serious, light, or gallant; she objected, however, to being called
a savante, and she was far from resembling the false précieuses to whom she was likened by
her enemies. The occupations of her salon were somewhat different from those of the salon of
Mme. de Rambouillet. M. du Bled describes them as follows:

"What they did in the salon of Mlle. de Scudéry you can guess readily: they amused themselves
as at Mme. de Rambouillet's, they joked quite cheerfully, smiled and laughed, wrote farces
in prose and poetry. There were readings, loteries d'esprit, sonnet-enigmas, bouts-rimés (rhymes
given to be formed into verse), vers-échos, fine literary joustings, discussions between the
casuists. This salon had its talkers and speakers, those who tyrannized over the audience and
those who charmed it, those who shot off fireworks and those who prepared them, those who had
made a symphony of conversation and those who made of it a monologue and had no flashes of
silence. They did not follow fashion there—they rather made it; in art and literature as in
toilets, smallness follows the fashion, pretension exaggerates it, taste makes a compact with it."

A specimen of the énigme-sonnets may be of interest, to show in what intellectual playfulness
and trivialities these wits indulged:

  "Souvent, quoique léger, je lasse qui me porte.
  Un mot de ma façon vaut un ample discours.
  J'ai sous Louis le Grand commencé d'avoir cours,
  Mince, long, plat, étroit, d'une étoffe peu forte.

  "Les doigts les moins savants me taillent de la sorte;
  Sous mille noms divers je parais tous les jours;
  Aux valets étourdis je suis d'un grand secours.
  Le Louvre ne voit point ma figure à sa porte.

  "Une grossière main vient la plupart du temps
  Me prendre de la main des plus honnêtes gens.
  Civil, officieux, je suis né pour la ville.

  "Dans le plus rude hiver j'ai le dos toujours nu:
  Et, quoique fort commode, à peine m'a-t-on vu,
  Qu'ausitôt négligé, je deviens inutile."

[Often, although light, I weary the person who carries me. A word in my manner is worth a whole
discourse. I began under Louis the Great to be in vogue,—slight, long, flat, narrow, of a very
slight material.

The most unskilled fingers cut me in their way; under a thousand different forms I appear every
day; I am a great aid to the astonished valets. The Louvre does not see my face at its door.

A coarse hand most of the time receives me from the hand of the nicest people. Civil, officious,
I am born for the city.

In the coldest weather, my back is always bare; and, although quite convenient, scarcely have
they seen me, when I am neglected and useless.—Visiting card.]

A more interesting one and one that caused no little amusement is the following:

  "Je suis niais et fin, honnête et malhonnête,
  Moins sincère à la cour qu'en un simple taudis.
  Je fais d'un air plaisant trembler les plus hardis,
  Le fort me laisse aller, le sage m'arrête.

  "A personne sans moi l'on ne fait jamais fête:
  J'embellis quelquefois, quelquefois, j'enlaidis.
  Je dédaigne tantôt, tantôt j'applaudis;
  Pour m'avoir en partage, il faut n'être pas bête.

  "Plus mon trône est petit, plus il a de beauté.
  Je l'agrandis pourtant d'un et d'autre côté,
  Faisant voir bien souvent des défauts dont on jase.

  "Je quitte mon éclat quand je suis sans témoins,
  Et je me puis vanter enfin d'être la chose
  Qui contente le plus et qui coûte le moins."

[I am both stupid and bright, honest and dishonest; less sincere at court than in a simple
hovel; with a pleasant air, I make the boldest tremble, the strong let me pass, the wise stop me.

There is no joy to anyone without me; I embellish at times, at times I distort; I disdain and
I applaud; to share me, one must not be stupid.

The smaller my throne, the greater my beauty; I enlarge it, however, on both sides, often showing
defects which are made sport of.

I leave my brilliancy when I am without witness, and I can boast of being the thing which contents
the most and costs the least.—A smile.]

Critics often reproach Mlle. de Scudéry for having portrayed herself—as Sapho—in a flattering
light in her novel Cyrus; but it must be remembered that at that time this was a common custom,
women of the highest quality indulging in such pastimes, there even being a prominent salon
where verbal portraiture was the sole occupation. No one has written more or better on the
condition of woman, for she, above all, had the experience upon which to base her writings.
The idea of woman's education and aim, which was generally entertained by the intelligent and
modest women of the seventeenth century, is well expressed by Mlle. de Scudéry in the following:

"The difficulty of knowing something with seemliness does not come to a woman so much from
what she knows as from what others do not know; and it is, without doubt, singularity that
makes it difficult to be as others are not, without being exposed to blame. Seriously, is not
the ordinary idea of the education of women a peculiar one? They are not to be coquettes nor
gallants, and yet they are carefully taught all that is peculiar to gallantry without being
permitted to know anything that can strengthen their virtue or occupy their minds. Don't imagine,
however, that I do not wish woman to be elegant, to dance or to sing; but I should like to
see as much care devoted to her mind as to her body, and between being ignorant and savante
I should like to see a road taken which would prevent annoyance from an impertinent sufficiency
or from a tiresome stupidity. I should like very much to be able to say of anyone of my sex
that she knows a hundred things of which she does not boast, that she has a well-balanced mind,
that she speaks well, writes correctly, and knows the world; but I do not wish it to be said
of her that she is a femme savante. The best women of the world when they are together in a
large number rarely say anything that is worth anything and are more ennuyé than if they were
alone; on the contrary, there is something that I cannot express, which makes it possible for
men to enliven and divert a company of ladies more than the most amiable woman on earth could do."

Mlle. de Scudéry considered marriage a long slavery and preferred virtuous celibacy enlivened
by platonic gallantry. When youth and adorers had passed away, she found consolation in interchanges
of wit, congenial conversation, and the cultivation of the mind by study. Making of love a
doctrine, a manual of morals or savoir-vivre, has had a refining effect upon civilization;
but the process has rendered the emotion itself too subtle, select, narrow, enervating, and
exhausting; it has resulted in the production of splendid books with heroes and heroines of
the higher type, and has purified the atmosphere of social life; this phase of its influence,
however, is felt by only a set of the élite, and its adherents are scattered through every
age and every country. Mlle. de Scudéry was a perfect representative of that type, but healthy
and normal rather than morbidly æsthetic.

An opposition party soon arose, formed by those, especially, who entertained different ideas
of the sphere and duties of woman. Just as the type of the salon of Mme. de Rambouillet degenerated
among the aristocracy into those of the Hôtel de Condé, Mme. de Sablé, and Mlle. de Luxembourg,
so the type of the salon of Mlle. de Scudéry gave rise to a number of literary salons among
the bourgeoisie. The aim of the latter institutions was to imitate her example in endeavoring
to spread the taste for courtesy, elegant manners and the higher forms of learning; all these
aspirations, however, drifted into mere affectation, while the requisites of welcome at the
original salon were simplicity, freedom from affectation, delicacy, amiability, and dignity.

As a writer, Mlle. de Scudéry occupies no mean position in the history of French literature
of the seventeenth century. Her descriptions and anecdotes possess a wonderful charm and display
unusual power of analysis; in them, Victor Cousin recognizes a truly virile spirit. In the
history of the French novel, she forms a transition period, her productions having both a psychological
interest and a historical value of a very high degree. Through her finesse and marvellous feminine
penetration, her truthful, delicate and fine portraitures, which were widely imitated later,
she has exerted an extensive influence.

With Mlle. de Scudéry "we have substance, real character painting, true psychological penetration,
and realism in observation," while previously the novel, under such men as Gomberville and
La Calprenède, was imaginative and full of fancy. Her talent, then, in that field, lay in the
analysis and development of sentiments, in delineation of character, in the creation and reproduction
of refined and ingenious conversations, and in her reflections on subjects pertaining to morality
and literature—in all of which she displayed justness and entire liberty and independence of
thought. Her poetry, delicate compliment or innocent gallantries, was a mere bagatelle of the
salon.

Charming as well as accomplished, Mlle. de Scudéry was as intelligent, witty, and intellectual
a woman as could be found in the seventeenth century; and in the history of that period she
retains an undisputed position as one of its great leaders of thought and progress. Her salon,
inasmuch as the salon of Mme. de Lambert was not opened until 1710, and therefore the discussion
of it belongs properly to the beginning of the eighteenth century, really closes the literary
progress of the seventeenth century.

The influence of the seventeenth century salon was of a threefold nature—literary, moral, and
social. According to the salon conception, artistic, literary, or musical pleasure being derived
from form and mode of expression, it possessed a special and unique interest in proportion
to the efforts made and the difficulties surmounted in attaining that form and expression:
thus, woman introduced a new standard of excellence.

Préciosité treated language not as a work of art, but as a medium for the display of individual
linguistic dexterity; giving no thing its proper name, it delighted in paraphrase, allusion,
word play, unexpected comparisons and abundance of metaphors, and revelled in the elusive,
delicate, subtle, and complex. Hence conversation turned constantly to love and gallantry;
thus woman developed to a wonderful degree, unattainable to but few, the art of conversation,
politeness and courtesy of manners, and social relations, at the same time purifying language
and enriching it.

French women of the seventeenth century are condemned for having treated serious things too
lightly; and it is said that "in confining the French mind to the observation of society and
its attractions, she has restricted and retarded a more realistic and larger activity." In
answer to this it may be asserted that the French mind was not prepared for a broader field
until it had passed through the process of expurgating, refining, drilling, and disciplining.
If préciosité influenced politics, it was by developing diplomacy, for, from the time that
this spirit began to spread, French diplomacy became world-renowned.

The social influence of the movement may be better appreciated by considering the condition
of woman in earlier periods. Having practically no position except that of housewife or mother,
she was merely a source of pleasure for man, for whom she had little or no respect. The précieuses,
on the contrary, exacted respect, honor, and a place beside man, as rights that belonged to them.

As the outcome of their desire to think, feel, and act with greater delicacy, women introduced
propriety in expression, finesse in analysis, keenness of esprit, psychological subtleness:
qualities that surely tended to higher standards of morality, purer social relations, finer
and more subtle diplomacy, more elegance and precision in literature. Therefore, préciosité
in France had a wholesome influence, which was possible because woman had won for herself her
rightful position, and her aspirations were toward social and moral elevation.

In general, the women of France have always been conscious of their duty, their importance,
and their limitations, appreciating their power and cultivating the characteristics that attract
man and retain his respect and attention: sociability, morality, esprit, artistic appreciation,
sensitiveness, tact. These qualities became manifest to a remarkable degree in French women
of the seventeenth century, and created in every writer, great or unimportant, the desire to
win their favor. Thus, Corneille strove to write dramas with which he might establish the reign
of decency on a stage the liberties of which had previously made the theatre inaccessible to
woman; hence, his characters of humanity (Cid) and politeness (Menteur).

The purpose of the French Academy itself was not different from that of the précieuses. Richelieu,
realizing that every great talent accepted the discipline of these women, sought to use this
power for his own ends by interesting the world of letters in the accomplishment of his plans
for a general political unity. Thus, when the first period of préciosité had reached its highest
point and was beginning to decline, and other smaller and envious social groups were forming
about Paris and causing a conflict of ideas, Richelieu conceived the scheme of joining all
in a union, with strong ideals and with a language as dignified as the Latin and the Greek.
The result was the formation of the French Academy. From this time begins the decline of the
authority of woman; for while she still exerted a powerful influence, it was no longer absolute.
After the decline of the Hôtel de Rambouillet, feminine influence became more general, expending
itself in petty rivalries, gossip, intrigues, and partaking of the nature of that court life
which was filled by the young king with parties, feasts, collations, walks, carousals, boating,
concerts, ballets, and masquerades—a mode of living that gave rise to a new standard of politeness,
which was freer and looser than that of préciosité.

As the power of the young king became stronger, his favor became the goal of all men of letters.
Although woman still to some extent controlled the destinies of those who were struggling for
recognition and reputation, her influence was of a secondary nature, that of the king being
supreme. Woman seemed to be overcoming the influence of woman—Mme. de Montespan replaced Mlle.
de La Vallière, and she was in turn replaced by Mme. de Maintenon.

The degeneration of the king was accompanied by that of literature, society, and morals. The
characteristic inclination of the day was eagerly to seek and grasp that which was new, and
the noble, forceful, and dignified style of language of the previous period was replaced by
one of much lighter description; many female writers directed their efforts entirely toward
amusing, pleasing, and gaining applause.

In the beginning of the eighteenth century, with Mme. de Lambert as its leader, there was a
renascence of the préciosité of the Hôtel de Rambouillet, women protesting against the prevalent
grossness and indecency of manners. The salon of Mme. de Lambert was the great antechamber
to the Academy, election to which was generally gained through her. A new aristocracy was forming,
a new society arose; from about 1720 to 1750, libertinism and atheism, licentiousness and intrigue,
crept into the salons.

The new aristocracy was of doubtful and impure source, cynical in manner, unbridled in habits,
over-fastidious in taste, and politically powerful. In this society woman began to be felt
as a political force. M. Brunetière said: "Mme. de Lambert made Academicians; the Marquise
de Prie made a queen of France; Mme. de Tencin made cardinals and ambassadors." Montesquieu
wrote: "There is not a person who has any employment at the court in Paris or in the provinces,
who has not the influence (and sometimes the injustices which she can cause) of a woman through
whom all favors pass;" and M. Brunetière added: "This woman is not his wife." The popular spirit
in literature was one of subtleness, irony, superficial observations on manners and customs.
From the beginning of the eighteenth century up to the eve of the Revolution, woman's influence
continued to increase, but that influence was mainly in the direction of politics. Thus, in
every period in French history, a group of women effectively moulds French thought and language,
and directs intellectual activity in general.

After the death of Louis XIV., society passed under the rule of the regent, the Duke of Orléans—the
personification of gallantry and affability, of depravity which was a mania, and of licentiousness
which was a disease. From this atmosphere the salon of Mme. de Lambert became a refuge to those
who still cherished the ideals of the good old times of Mme. de Rambouillet; it was distinguished
by its refined sentiment and polished manners, which were like those of the seventeenth century
at its best.

Mme. de Lambert believed that the demands of the time were just the opposite of those of the
seventeenth century: "What a multitude of tastes nowadays—the table, play, theatre! When money
and luxury are supreme, true honor loses its power. Persons seek only those houses where shameful
luxury reigns." In her own salon, none might enter who were not of the small number of the elect.

Very little is known of the life of Mme. de Lambert. She was born in 1647, and, in spite of
the unfavorable surroundings of her youth and of a dissolute, extravagant, and unrefined mother,
the observance of decorum and honor became the actuating principle of her life. Until her marriage
(in 1666) to Henri de Lambert, Marquis de Bris en Auxerrois, she was in the midst of the grossest
licentiousness and freedom of manners; when married, she entered a family the very opposite
of her own.

She was a woman who believed in the power of ambitious energy. To her son she once said: "Nothing
is less becoming to a young man than a certain modesty that makes him believe that he is not
capable of great things. This modesty is a languor of the soul, which prevents it from soaring
and rapidly carrying itself to glory."

At first she lived in the Hôtel de Lambert (in the Ile Saint-Louis), renowned for its splendidly
sculptured decorations, painted ceilings, panels, and staircases. Her famous Salon des Muses
and Cabinet d'Amours were filled with the finest works of art and the most exquisite paintings.
There the élite of all classes were entertained until the death of her husband (1686), when
the hôtel was closed; it was not reopened until 1710.

Though left with immense wealth, her affairs were in a very complicated state. While actively
employed in untangling her difficulties, she at the same time superintended the education of
her son and daughter. After long and trying lawsuits, she managed to put her fortune in order
and established herself at Paris, where the Duc de Nevers ceded to her, for life, a large portion
of the magnificently furnished Palais Mazarin, now the National Library. On the completion
of her work in remodelling this palace and furnishing it with the most costly and beautiful
panel paintings by Watteau and other artists, she inaugurated her Tuesday and Wednesday dinner
parties.

One remarkable characteristic of her company was the age of her intimate associates—the Marquis
de Saint-Aulaire, Fontenelle, Mme. Dacier, and her husband, Louis de Sacy, all of whom, as
well as Mme. de Lambert herself, had passed threescore and more; but they still kept alive
the cherished memories of the brilliant society of their youth. Mme. de Lambert did not personally
know Mme. de Rambouillet, but she visited the latter's daughter, Julie d'Angennes, from whom
she learned the customs and etiquette in vogue at the Hôtel de Rambouillet.

The Wednesday dinners of Mme. de Lambert were to her intimate friends, while every Tuesday
afternoon she received a general circle which indulged in general conversation and read and
discussed books which were about to be published; gambling, which seemed to be the principal
means of entertaining in those days, had no place there. Fontenelle says: "It was, with very
few exceptions, the only house which had been preserved from the epidemic of gambling—the only
house where persons congregated simply for the sake of talking sensibly and with esprit. Those
who had their reasons for considering it bad taste that conversation was still carried on in
any place, cast mean reflections, whenever they could, against the house of Mme. de Lambert."
In the evening, she received only a few select friends with whom she talked seriously. Her
salon soon became the envy of those who were not admitted (and they were numerous), and was
the object of many calumnies and attacks.

During this time she found leisure to write two treatises of practical morality, Avis d'une
mère à son fils, and Avis d'une mère à sa fille, which appeared without her permission. The
manuscripts, lent to friends, fell into the hands of a publisher; and although the authoress
endeavored to prevent the distribution of the works by buying up the entire editions, they
were published outside of France. The two works written to her children form an important contribution
to the educational literature of the time; in them the religion of the eighteenth century is
first defined.

"Above all these duties—civil and human (says the mother to her son)—is the duty you owe to
the Supreme Being. Religion is a commerce established between God and man through the grace
of God to man and through the duty of man to God. Elevated souls have for their God sentiments
and a cult apart, which do not resemble at all those of the people; everything issues from
the heart and goes to God."

In these works, she attacked also the fad of free-thinking in vogue among the young men of
the time. She was one of the few women of that age who could not separate themselves from reason
and thought, even in religion; the latter was a matter for the reason and the intellect to
decide, and was thus an elevated product of the mind rather than an instinct coming from the
heart, or a positive revelation as it was in the seventeenth century. In this view, Madame
de Lambert indicated the beginning of the later eighteenth-century spirit.

Mme. de Lambert taught her children to be satisfied with nothing but the highest attainable
object. She advised her son to choose his friends from among men above him, in order to accustom
himself to respectful and polite demeanor; "with his equals he might cultivate negligence and
his mind might become dull." She desired her children to think differently from the people—"Those
who think lowly and commonly, and the court is filled with such." To their servants they were
to be good and kind, for humanity and Christianity make all equal. She was the first to use
those words, "humanity" and "equality," which later became the bywords of everyone, and the
first to teach that conscience is the best guide. "Conscience is defined as that interior sentiment
of a delicate honor which assures you that you have nothing with which to reproach yourself."

Possibly the most important and lasting effect of Mme. de Lambert's influence resulted from
the expression of her ideas on the education of young women who "are destined to please, and
are given lessons only in methods of delighting and pleasing." She was convinced that in order
to resist temptation and be normal, women must be educated, must learn to think. Her counsels
to her daughter are remarkable for an unusual insight into the temperament of her sex and for
an extreme fear that makes her call to her aid all precautions and resources. She thus advises
her daughter:

"Try to find resources within yourself—this is a revenue of certain pleasures. Do not believe
that your only virtue is modesty; there are many women who know no other virtue, and who imagine
that it relieves them of all duties toward society; they believe they are right in lacking
all others and think themselves privileged to be proud and slanderous with impunity. You must
have a gentle modesty; a good woman may have the advantages of a man's friendship without abandoning
honesty and faithfulness to her duties. Nothing is so difficult as to please without the use
of what seems like coquettishness. It is more often by their defects than by their good qualities
that women please men; men seek to profit by the weaknesses of good and kind women, for whose
virtues they care nothing, and they prefer to be amused by persons not very estimable than
to be forced merely to admire virtuous persons."

This is a most faithful description of the society of her time, and it was because her treatises
struck home that they were severely criticised; but, nothing daunted, she carried out her plans
in her own way, resorting neither to intrigue nor artifice. Many of her sayings became household
maxims, such as—"It is not always faults that undo us; it is the manner of conducting ourselves
after having committed them."

Her reflections on women might be called the great plea, at the end of the seventeenth century,
for woman's right to use her reason. After the severe and cruel satire of Molière, attacking
women for their innocent amusements, they gave themselves up entirely to pleasure. "Mme. de
Lambert now wrote to avenge her sex and demand for it the honest and strong use of the mind;
and this was done in the midst of the wild orgies of the Regency."

Mme. de Lambert was not a rare beauty, but she possessed recompensing charms. M. Colombey asserts
that she became convinced of two things, about which she became highly enthusiastic: first,
that woman was more reasonable than man; secondly, that M. Fontenelle, who presided over or
filled the functions of president of her salon, was always in the right. He was indeed in harmony
with the tone of the salon, being considered the most polished, brilliant, and distinguished
member of the intellectual society of Paris, as well as one of the most talented drawing room
philosophers. He made the salon of Mme. de Lambert the most sought for and celebrated, the
most intellectual and moral of the period.

Mme. de Lambert has, possibly, exercised more influence upon men—and especially upon the Forty
Immortals of her time—than did any woman before or after her. The Marquis d'Argenson states
that "a person was seldom received at the Academy unless first presented at her salon. It is
certain that she made at least half of our actual Academicians."

Her salon was called a bureau d'esprit, which was due to the fact that it was about the only
social gathering point where culture and morality were the primary requisites. As she advanced
in years, she became even more influential. After her death in 1733, her salon ceased to exist,
but others, patterned after hers, soon sprang up; to those, her friends attached themselves—Fontenelle
frequented several, Hénault became the leader of that of Mme. du Deffand.

The finest résumé that can be given of Mme. de Lambert, is found in the letters of the Marquis
d'Argenson: "Her works contain a complete course in the most perfect morals for the use of
the world and the present time. Some affectation of the préciosité is found; but, what beautiful
thoughts, what delicate sentiments! How well she speaks of the duties of women, of friendship,
of old age, of the difference between actual character and reputation!"

The salon of Mme. de Lambert forms a period of transition from the seventeenth century type
in which elegance, politeness, courtesy, and morality were the first requisites, to the eighteenth
century salon in which esprit and wit were the essentials demanded. It retained the dignity,
discipline, refinement, and sentiments of morality of the Hôtel de Rambouillet; it showed,
also, the first signs of pure intellectuality. The salons to follow, will exhibit decidedly
different characteristics.

Chapter V

Mistresses and Wives of Louis XIV

The story of the wives and mistresses of Louis XIV., embraces that which is most dramatic morally
(or immorally dramatic) in the history of French women. The record of the eighteenth century
heroines is essentially a tragic one, while that of those of the previous century is essentially
dramatic in its sadness, remorse, and repentance.

The mistress, as a rule, was unhappy; there were few months during the period of her glory,
in which she was entirely free from anxiety or in which her conscience was at rest. Mme. de
Montespan "was for so many years the sick nurse of a soul worn out with pride, passion, and
glory." Mme. de Maintenon wrote to one of her friends: "Why cannot I give you my experience?
Why cannot I make you comprehend the ennui which devours the great, and the troubles that fill
their days? Do you not see that I am dying of sadness, in a fortune the vastness of which could
not be easily imagined? I have been young and pretty; I have enjoyed pleasures; I have spent
years in intellectual intercourse; I have attained favor; and I protest to you, my dear child,
that all such conditions leave a frightful void." She said, also, to her brother, Count d'Aubigné:
"I can hold out no longer; I would like to be dead." It was she too, who, after her successes,
made her confession thus: "One atones heavily for the pleasures and intoxications of youth.
I find, in looking back at my life, that since the age of twenty-two—which was the beginning
of my fortune—I have not had a moment free from sufferings which have constantly increased."

M. Saint-Amand gives a description of the women of Louis XV. which well applies to those of
his predecessor: "These pretended mistresses, who, in reality, are only slaves, seem to present
themselves, one after the other, like humble penitents who come to make their apologies to
history, and, like the primitive Christians, to reveal publicly the miseries, vexations, and
remorses of their souls. They tell us to what their doleful successes amounted: even while
their triumphal chariot made its way through a crowd of flatterers, their consciences hissed
cruel accusations into their ears; like actresses before a whimsical and variable public, they
were always afraid that the applause might change into an uproar, and it was with terror underlying
their apparent coolness that they continued to play their sorry part.... If among these mistresses
of the king there were a single one who had enjoyed her shameful triumphs in peace, who had
called herself happy in the midst of her dearly bought luxury and splendor, one might have
concluded that, from a merely human point of view, it is possible to find happiness in vice.
But, no—there is not even one!" Massillon, the great preacher of truth and morality, said:
"The worm of conscience is not dead; it is only benumbed. The alienated reason presently returns,
bringing with it bitter troubles, gloomy thoughts, and cruel anxieties"—a true picture of every
mistress.

The remarkable power and influence of these women, the love and adoration accorded them, ceased
with their death; the memory of them did not survive overnight. When, during a terrible storm,
the remains of the glorious Mme. de Pompadour were being taken to Paris, the king, seeing the
funeral cortége from his window, remarked: "The Marquise will not have fine weather for her
journey."

Each one of these powerful mistresses represents a complete epoch of society, morals, and customs.
Mme. de Montespan—that woman whose very look meant fortune or disfavor—with all her wit and
wealth, her magnificence and pomp and superb beauty—she, in all her splendor, is a type of
the triumphant France, haughty, dictatorial, scornful and proud, licentious and decayed at
the core. Voluptuousness and haughtiness were replaced by religiosity and repentance in Mme.
de Maintenon, with her temperate character, consistency, and propriety.

The Regency was a period of scandal and wantonness, personified in the Duchess of Berry. The
licentious and extravagant, yet brilliant and exquisite, frivolous but charming, intriguing
and diplomatic, was represented by the talented and politically influential Mme. de Pompadour.
Complete degeneracy, vice with all manner of disguise thrown off, adultery of the lowest order,
were personified in the common Mme. du Barry, who might be classed with Louise of Savoy of
the sixteenth century, while Mme. de Pompadour might be compared with Diana of Poitiers.

In this period the queens of France were of little importance, being too timid and modest to
assert their rights—a disposition which was due sometimes to their restricted youth, spent
in Catholic countries, sometimes to a naturally unassuming and sensitive nature. To this rule
Maria Theresa, the wife of Louis XIV., was no exception. She inherited her sweetness of disposition
and her Christian character from her mother, Isabella of France, the daughter of Henry IV.
and Marie de' Medici. She was pure and candid; a type of irreproachable piety and goodness,
of conjugal tenderness and maternal love; and recompensed outraged morality for all the false
pride, selfish ambition, depravity, and scandals of court. She is conspicuous as a model wife,
one that loved her husband, her family, and her children.

Around Maria Theresa may be grouped the noble and virtuous women of the court of Louis XIV.,
for she was to that age what Claude of France was under Francis I., Elizabeth of Austria under
Charles V., Louise de Vaudemont under Henry III. However, in extolling these women, it must
be remembered that they had not, as queens, the opportunity to participate in debauchery, licentiousness,
and intrigue, as had the mistresses of their husbands; they had no power, were not consulted
on state or social affairs, and had granted to them only those favors to the conferring of
which the mistresses did not object.

Maria Theresa was a perfect example of the self-sacrificing mother and devoted wife. Her feelings
toward the king are best expressed by the Princesse Palatine: "She had such an affection for
the king that she tried to read in his eyes whatever would give him pleasure; providing he
looked kindly at her, she was happy all day." Mme. de Caylus wrote: "That poor princess had
such a dread of the king and such great natural timidity that she dared neither to speak to
him nor to run the risk of a tête-à-tête with him. One day, I heard Mme. de Maintenon say that
the king having sent for the queen, the latter requested her to go with her so that she might
not appear alone in his presence: but that she (Mme. de Maintenon) conducted her only to the
door of the room and there took the liberty of pushing her so as to make her enter, and that
she observed such a great trembling in her whole person that her very hands shook with fright."

From about 1680, especially after the death of Mlle. de Fontanges, his last mistress, Louis
XIV. began to look with disfavor upon the women of doubtful morality and to advance those who
were noted for their conjugal fidelity. He became more attentive to the queen—a change of attitude
which was due partly to the influence of Mme. de Maintenon and partly to the fact that he was
satiated with the excesses of his debauches, by which his physical system had been almost wrecked.
He would not have dared to legitimatize his bastard children, had he not been so thoroughly
idolized by his greatest heroes and most powerful ministers. As an illustration, it may be
remarked that the Great Condé proposed the marriage of his son to the king's daughter by Mlle.
de La Vallière.

The queen became so religious that she derived more enjoyment from praying at the convents
or visiting hospitals than from remaining at her magnificent apartments. She waited upon the
sick with her own hands and carried food to them; she never meddled in political affairs or
took much interest in social functions.

Timidity, an instinctive shrinking from the slanders, calumnies, and intrigues of the court,
appeared to be the most pronounced characteristic of queens who seemed to believe themselves
too inferior to their husbands to dare to offer any political counsel. While none of them were
superior intellectually, they possessed dignity, good sense, and tact, "a reverential feeling
for the sanctity of religion and the majesty of the throne," an admirable resignation, a painful
docility and submission—qualities which might have been turned to the advantage of their owners
and the state, had the former been more self-assertive.

The infidelities of their husbands caused the queen-consorts constant torture; they were forced
to behold the kings' favorites becoming part of their own households and were compelled to
endure the presence, as ladies in waiting, of those who, as their rivals, caused them to suffer
all possible torments of jealousy and outraged conjugal love.

First among the mistresses of Louis XIV. was Mlle. de La Vallière, whom Sainte-Beuve mentions
as the personification of the ideal of a lover, combining disinterestedness, fidelity, unique
and delicate tenderness with a touching and sincere kindness. When, at the age of seventeen,
she was presented at court, the king immediately selected her as one of his victims. Her beauty
was so striking, of such an exquisitely tender type, that no woman actually rivalled her as
queen of beauty. Distinguished by blond hair, dark blue eyes, a most sympathetic voice, and
a complexion of rare whiteness mingled with red, she was guileless, animated, gentle, modest,
graceful, unaffected, and ingenuous; although slightly lame, she was, by everyone, considered
charming.

Mlle. de La Vallière was the mother of several children of whom Louis XIV. was the father.
On realizing that she had rivals in the favor of the sovereign, she fled several times from
the Tuileries to the convent; on her second return, the king, about to go to battle, recognized
his daughter by her, whom he made a duchess. Remorse overcame the mistress so deeply that she,
for the third and final time, left court. Especially on the rise to power of Mme. de Montespan
was she painfully humiliated, suffering the most intense pangs of conscience. The evening before
her final departure to the convent, she dined with Mme. de Montespan, to drink "the cup to
the dregs and to enjoy the rejection of the world even to the last remains of its bitterness."

Guizot describes this period most vividly: "When Mme. de Montespan began to supplant her in
the king's favor, the grief of Mlle. de La Vallière was so great that she thought she would
die of it. Then she turned to God, penitent and in despair; twice she sought refuge in a convent
at Chaillot. On leaving, she sent word to the king: 'After having lost the honor of your good
graces I would have left the court sooner, if I could have prevailed upon myself never to see
you again; but that weakness was so strong in me that hardly now am I capable of sacrificing
it to God. After having given you all my youth, the remainder of my life is not too much for
the care of my salvation.'" The king still clung to her. "He sent M. Colbert to beg her earnestly
to come to Versailles that he might speak with her. M. Colbert escorted her thither and the
king conversed for an hour with her and wept bitterly. Mme. de Montespan was there to meet
her, with open arms and tears in her eyes." "It is all incomprehensible," adds Mme. de Sévigné;
"some say that she will remain at Versailles and at court, others that she will return to Chaillot;
we shall see."

Mlle. de La Vallière remained three years at court, "half penitent," she said, humbly, detained
by the king's express wish, in consequence of the tempers and jealousies of Mme. de Montespan
who felt herself judged and condemned by her rival's repentance. Attempts were made to turn
Mlle. de La Vallière from her inclination for the Carmelites': "Madame," said Mme. Scarron
to her, one day, "here are you one blaze of gold; have you really considered that, before long,
at the Carmelites' you will have to wear serge?" She, however, was not to be dissuaded from
her determination and was already practising, in secret, the austerities of the convent. "God
has laid in this heart the foundation of great things," said Bossuet, who supported her in
her conflict; "the world puts great hindrances in her way, and God great mercies; I have hopes
that God will prevail; the uprightness of her heart will carry everything before it."

"When I am in trouble at the Carmelites'," said Mlle. de La Vallière, as for the last time
she quitted the court, "I shall think of what those people have made me suffer." "The world
itself makes us sick of the world," said Bossuet in the sermon which he preached on the day
she took the veil; "its attractions have enough of illusion, its favors enough of inconstancy,
its rebuffs enough of bitterness. There is enough of bitterness, enough of injustice and perfidy
in the dealings of men, enough of inconsistency and capriciousness in their intractable and
contradictory humors—there is enough of it all, to disgust us."

When, in 1675, she took the final vows, she cut off her beautiful hair and devoted herself
to the church and to charity, receiving the veil from the queen, whose forgiveness she sought
before entering the convent. The king showed himself to be such a jealous lover, that when
Mlle. de La Vallière entirely abandoned him for God, he forgot her absolutely, never going
to the convent to see her.

She was by far the most interesting and pathetic of the three mistresses of Louis XIV.; her
heart was superior to that of either of her successors, though her mind was inferior; she belonged
to a different atmosphere—such kindness, charity, penitence, resignation, and absolute abandonment
to God were rare among the conspicuous French women. Sainte-Beuve says: "She loved for love,
without haughtiness, coquetry, arrogance, ambitious designs, self-interest, or vanity; she
suffered and sacrificed everything, humiliated herself to expiate her wrong-doing, and finally
surrendered herself to God, seeking in prayer the treasures of energy and tenderness; through
her heart, her mental powers attained their complete development."

The fate of Mlle. de La Vallière was the same as that of nearly all royal mistresses; abandoned
and absolutely forgotten by her lover, she sought refuge and consolation in religion and God's
mercy. "She was dead to me the day she entered the Carmelites'," said the king, thirty-five
years later, when the modest and fervent nun at last expired, in 1710, without having ever
relaxed the severities of her penance.

Of an entirely different type from Mlle. de La Vallière was that haughtiest and most supercilious
of all French mistresses, Mme. de Montespan. The picture drawn by M. Saint-Amand does her full
justice: "A haughty and opulent beauty, a forest of hair, flashing blue eyes, a complexion
of splendid carnation and dazzling whiteness, one of those alluring and radiant countenances
which shed brightness around them wherever they appear, an incisive, caustic wit, an unquenchable
thirst for riches and pleasure, luxury and power, the manners of a goddess audaciously usurping
the place of Juno on Olympus, passion without love, pride without true dignity, splendor without
harmony—that was Mme. de Montespan." And these qualities were the secret of her success as
well as of her fall.

From this description it can easily be divined of what nature was her influence and how she
gained and held her power over the king. She won Louis XIV. entirely by her sensual charms,
provoked him by her imperious exactions, her ungovernable fits of temper, and her daring sarcasm;
always extravagant and unreasonable, she talked constantly of balls and fêtes, the glories
of court and its scandals. Most exacting, yet never satisfied, she had no regard for the interests
or honor of the weak king, to whose lower nature only she appealed.

Mme. de Montespan was of noble birth, being the youngest daughter of Rochechouart, first Duke
of Mortemart. She was born in 1641, at the grand old château of Tonnay-Charente, and was educated
at the convent of Sainte-Marie. Brought up religiously, she at first evinced a much greater
tendency toward religion than toward worldly ambition and vanity. Mme. de Caylus, in her Souvenirs,
wrote that "far from being born depraved, the future favorite had a nature inherently disinclined
to gallantry and tending to virtue. She was flattered at being mistress, not solely for her
own pleasure, but on account of the passion of the king; she believed that she could always
make him desire what she had resolved never to grant him. She was in despair at her first pregnancy,
consoled herself for the second one, and in all the others carried impudence as far as it could
go."

She was known first as Mlle. Tonnay-Charente, and was maid of honor to the Duchess of Orléans.
When, at the age of twenty-two, she married the Marquis de Montespan and became lady in waiting
to the queen, her beauty, wit, and brilliant conversational powers at once made her the centre
of attraction; for several years, however, the king scarcely noticed her. Upon secretly becoming
his mistress in 1668 and openly being declared as such two years later, her husband attempted
to interfere, and was unceremoniously banished to his estates; in 1676 he was legally separated
from her. She persuaded the king to legitimatize their children, who were confided to Mme.
Scarron,—afterward Mme. de Maintenon,—who later influenced the king to abandon his mistress.

Mme. de Montespan's power, lasting fourteen years, was almost unlimited, and was the epoch
of courtiers intoxicated with passion and consumed by vice, infatuated with the king and his
mistress, whose title as maîtresse-en-titre was considered an official one, conferring the
same privileges and demanding the same ceremonies and etiquette as did a high court position.
The only opposition incurred was from the clergy, who eventually, by uniting their forces with
the influence of Mme. de Maintenon, brought about the disgrace of the mistress.

When, in 1675, she desired to perform her Easter duties publicly at Versailles, the priest
refused to grant absolution until she should discontinue her wanton, adulterous life. She appealed
to the king, and he referred the decision of the matter to Bossuet, who decided that it was
an imperative duty to deny absolution to public sinners of notorious lives who refused to abandon
them. This was immediately before her legal separation from her husband.

Influenced by the preaching of men like Bourdaloue and Bossuet, the king resolved to abandon
his powerful mistress; in 1686 she was finally separated from Louis XIV., but did not leave
Versailles until 1691, when, becoming reconciled to her fate, she decided to retire to a convent.
Bossuet became her spiritual adviser, and described her habits in the following letter to the king:

"I find Mme. de Montespan sufficiently tranquil. She occupies herself greatly in good works.
I see her much affected by the verities I propose to her, which are the same I uttered to your
majesty. To her—as to you—I have offered the words by which God commands us to yield our whole
hearts to him; they have caused her to shed many tears. May God establish these verities in
the depths of the hearts of both of you, in order that so many tears, so much suffering, so
many efforts as you have made to subdue yourselves, may not be in vain."

The king did not wholly abandon his mistress; from a material point of view, she was more powerful
than ever, for Louis XIV. gave orders to his minister, Colbert, to do for Mme. de Montespan
whatever she wished, and her wishes caused a heavy drain upon the treasury. The king continued
to pay court to other favorites, such as the Princesse de Soubèse and Mlle. de Fontanges; the
latter was his third mistress, but her career was of short duration, as one of the last acts
of Mme. de Montespan was, it is said, the poisoning of Mlle. de Fontanges; this, however, is
not generally accepted as true, although the Princesse Palatine wrote the following which throws
suspicion upon the former favorite: "Mme. de Montespan was a fiend incarnate, but the Fontanges
was good and simple. The latter is dead—because, they say, the former put poison in her milk.
I do not know whether or not this is true, but what I do know well is that two of the Fontanges's
people died, saying publicly that they had been poisoned." With the increasing influence of
Mme. de Maintenon, the king completely forgot his former mistress.

Mme. de Montespan was possibly the most arrogant and despotic of all French mistresses and
she was, also, the most humiliated. She had inspired no confidence, friendship, love, or respect
in Louis XIV., who eventually looked with shame and remorse upon his relations with her. It
took her sixteen years to overcome her terrible passion and to give up the court forever. Not
until 1691 did she become reconciled to departure from Versailles; thenceforth, penitence conquered
immoral desires. M. Saint-Amand says she not only "arrived at remorse, but at macerations,
fasts, and haircloths. She limited herself to the coarsest underlinen and wore a belt and garters
studded with iron points. She came at last to give all she had to the poor;" she also founded
a hospital in which she nursed the sick.

While at the convent, she tried, in vain, to effect a reconciliation with her husband; not
until every avenue to a social life was cut off from her, did she entirely surrender herself
to charity and the service of God. In her latest years, she was so tormented by the horrors
of death that she employed several women whose only occupation was to watch with her at night.
She died in 1707, forgotten by the king and all her former associates; Louis XIV. formally
prohibited her children, the Duke of Maine, the Comte de Toulouse, the Comte de Vexin, and
Mlles. de Nantes, de Blois, and de Tours, from wearing mourning for her.

A striking contrast to Mme. de Montespan in character, disposition, morality, and birth was
Mme. de Maintenon, one of the greatest and most important women in French history. What is
known of her is so enveloped in calumny and falsehood and made so uncertain by dispute, that
to disentangle the actual facts is almost an impossibility, despite the glowing tribute paid
to her in the immense work published recently by the Comte d'Haussonville and M. Gabriel Hanotaux.

It would seem that the more the history of Mme. de Maintenon is studied, the more one is led
away from a first impression—which usually proves to be an erroneous one. Thus, M. Lavallée,
in his first work, Histoire des Français, wrote that she "was of the most complete aridity
of heart, narrow in the scope of her affections, and meanly intriguing. She suggested fatal
enterprises and inappropriate appointments; she forced mediocre and servile persons upon the
king; she had, in fine, the major share in the errors and disasters of the reign of Louis XIV."
A few years later he wrote, in his Histoire de la maison royale de Saint-Cyr: "Mme. de Maintenon
gave Louis XIV. none but salutary and disinterested counsels which were useful to the state
and instrumental in making less heavy the burdens of the people."

Opinion in general, especially French opinion, has been very bitter toward her. History has
even reproached her with having been a usurper, a tyrant, and a selfish master. The great preacher,
Fénelon, wrote to her:

"They say you take too little part in affairs. Your mind is more capable than you think. You
are, perhaps, a little too distrustful of yourself, or, rather, you are too much afraid to
enter into discussions contrary to the inclination you have for a tranquil and meditative life."

Is this picture, left by Emile Chasles and accepted by M. Saint-Amand, truthful? "This intelligent
woman, far from being too much heeded, was not enough so. There was in her a veritable love
for the public welfare, a true sorrow in the midst of our misfortunes. To-day, it is necessary
to retrench much from the grandeur of her worldly power and add a great deal to that of her
soul." M. Saint-Amand believes her sincere when she wrote to Mme. des Ursins:

"In whatever way matters turn, I conjure you, madame, to regard me as a person incapable of
directing affairs, who heard them talked too late to be skilful in them, and who hates them
more than she ignores them.... My interference in them is not desired and I do not desire to
interfere. They are not concealed from me, but I know nothing consecutively and am often badly
informed."

The opinions of her contemporaries are not always flattering, but such are possibly due to
envy and jealousy or to some purely personal prejudice. Thus, when the Duchess of Orléans,
the Princesse Palatine, calls her "that nasty old thing, that wicked devil, that shrivelled-up,
filthy old Maintenon, that concubine of the king," and casts upon her other gross aspersions
that are unfit to be repeated, one must remember that the calumniator was a German, the daughter
of the Elector Palatine Charles-Louis, a woman honest in her morals, but shameless in her speech,
who loved the beauties of nature more than those of the palaces; more shocked at hypocrites
than at religion or irreligion, she took Mme. de Maintenon to be a type of the impostors whom
she detested. It was her son who became regent, and it was her son who married one of the illegitimate
daughters of Louis XIV.—an alliance of which his mother had a horror.

The memoirs of Saint-Simon are interesting, but the odious picture he has drawn of Mme. de
Maintenon is hardly in accord with later appreciations. M. Saint-Amand sums up the two classes
of critics thus:

"The revolutionary school which likes to drag the memory of the great king through the mire,
naturally detests the eminent woman who was that king's companion, his friend and consoler.
Writers of this school would like to make of her a type not only odious and fatal, but ungraceful
and unsympathetic, without radiance, charm or any sort of fascination. She is too frequently
called to mind under the aspect of a worn old woman, stiff and severe, with tearless eyes and
a face without a smile. We forget that in her youth she was one of the prettiest women of her
time, that her beauty was wonderfully preserved, and that in her old age she retained that
superiority of style and language, that distinction of manner and exquisite tact, that gentle
firmness of character, that charm and elevation of mind, which, at every period of her life,
gained her so much praise and so many friends."

Mme. de Maintenon was born in prison. Her maiden name was Françoise d'Aubigné. She was the
granddaughter of Agrippa d'Aubigné, the historian. Her father had planned to settle in the
Carolinas, and his correspondence with the English government, to that effect, was treated
as treason; he was thrown into prison, where his wife voluntarily shared his fate and where
the future Mme. de Maintenon was born. After the death of her father, she was confided to her
aunt, Mme. de Villette, a Calvinist, who trained her in the principles of Protestantism. Because
of the refusal of her daughter to attend mass, her mother put her in charge of the Countess
of Neuillant who, with great difficulty, converted Françoise back to Catholicism.

At the home of the Countess of Neuillant, she often met Scarron, the comic poet—a paralytic
and cripple—who offered her money with which to pay for admission to a convent, a proposition
which she refused; subsequently, however, the countess sent her to the Ursulines to be educated.
When, after two years, she lost her mother and was thus left without home, fortune, or future
prospects, she consented, at the age of seventeen, to marry the poet. Thus, born in a prison,
without even a dowry, harshly reared by a mother who was under few obligations to life, more
harshly treated in the convent, introduced as a poor relation into the society of her aunt
and to the friends of her godmother, the Countess of Neuillant, she early learned to distrust
life and suspect man, and to restrain her ambitions.

Exceedingly beautiful, graceful, and witty, she soon won her way to the brilliant and fashionable
society of the crippled wit, buffoon, and poet, who was coarse, profane, ungodly, and physically
an unsightly wreck. In this society, which the burlesque poet amused by his inexhaustible wit
and fancy, and his frank, Gallic gayety, she showed an infinite amount of tact and soon made
his salon the most prominent social centre of Paris. There, Scarron, never tolerated a stupid
person, no matter of what blood or rank.

When asked what settlement he proposed to make upon his wife, he replied: "Immortality." At
another time, he remarked: "I shall not make her commit any follies, but I shall teach her
a great many." On his deathbed he said: "My only regret is that I cannot leave anything to
my wife with whom I have every imaginable reason to be content." In this free-and-easy salon,
a young noble said, soon after the marriage of Scarron: "If it were a question of taking liberties
with the queen or Mme. Scarron, I would not deliberate; I would sooner take them with the queen."

The reputation made by the young Mme. Scarron gained her many influential friends, especially
among court people. At the death of her husband, in 1660, to avoid trouble with his family,
she renounced the marriage dowry of twenty-four thousand livres. Her friends procured her a
pension of two thousand livres from the queen. Thus freed from care, she lived according to
her inclination, which tended toward pleasing and doing good; taking good cheer and her services
voluntarily and unaffectedly to all families, she gradually made herself a necessity among
them—thus she laid the foundation of her future greatness. She was received by the best families,
grew in favor everywhere, and even won over all her enemies. Modest, complaisant, promptly
and readily rendering a favor, prudent, practical and virtuous, her one desire was to make
friends, not so much for the purpose of using them, but because she realized that a person
in humble circumstances cannot have too many friends.

Her portrait as a widow is admirably drawn by M. Saint-Amand: "Mme. Scarron seeks esteem, not
love. To please while remaining virtuous, to endure, if need be, privations and even poverty,
but to win the reputation of a strong character, to deserve the sympathy and approbation of
honest persons—such is the direction of all her efforts. Well dressed, though very simply;
discreet and modest, intelligent and distingué, with that patrician elegance which luxury cannot
create, but which is inborn and comes by nature only; pious, with a sincere and gentle piety;
less occupied with herself than with others; talking well and—what is much rarer—knowing how
to listen; taking an interest in the joys and sorrows of her friends, and skilful in amusing
and consoling them—she is justly regarded as one of the most amiable as well as one of the
superior women in Paris. Economical and simple in her tastes, she makes her accounts balance
perfectly, thanks to an annual pension of two thousand livres granted her by Queen Anne of
Austria."

When Mme. Scarron was about to leave Paris because of lack of funds and the loss of her pension,
after the death of Queen Anne, her friend Mme. de Montespan, the king's mistress, interfered
in her behalf and had the pension renewed, thus inadvertently paving the way for her own downfall.
Three years later Mme. Scarron was established in an isolated house near Paris, where she received
the natural children of Louis XIV. and Mme. de Montespan, as they arrived, in quick succession,
in 1669, 1670, 1672, 1673, and 1674. There, acting as governess, she hid them from the world.
This is the only blemish upon the fair record of her life. It is maintained by her detractors
that a virtuous woman would not have undertaken the education of the doubly adulterous children
of Louis XIV. (thus, in a way, encouraging adultery), and that she would have given up her
charge upon the first proposals of love.

However deep this stain may be considered, one must remember that the standard of honor at
the court of Louis XIV. did not encourage delicacy in matters of love, and Mme. Scarron knew
only the standard of society; her morality was no more extraordinary than was her intelligence,
and it was to her credit that she preserved intact her honor and her virtue. At first the king
looked with much dissatisfaction upon her appointment, not admiring the extreme gravity and
reserve of the young widow; however, the unusual order of her talents and wisdom soon attracted
his attention, and her entrance at court was speedily followed by quarrels between the mistress
and Louis XIV. In 1674 the king, wishing to acknowledge his recognition of her merits, purchased
the estate of Maintenon for her and made her Marquise de Maintenon.

Her primary object became the gaining of the favor of Mme. de Montespan; for this purpose she
taught herself humility, while toward the king she directed the forces of her dignity, reserve,
and intellectual attainments. Being the very opposite of the mistress who won and retained
him by sensuous charms (in which the king was fast losing pleasure and satisfaction), she soon
effected a change by entertaining her master with the solid attainments of her mind—religion,
art, literature.

Mme. de Maintenon was always amiable and sympathetic, kind and thoughtful, never irritating,
crossing, or censuring the king; wonderfully judicious, modest, self-possessed, and calm, she
was irreproachable in conduct and morals, tolerating no improper advances. Although the characteristics
and general deportment of Mme. de Montespan were entirely different from those of Mme. de Maintenon,
the latter entertained true friendship for her benefactress, displaying astonishing tact, shrewdness,
and self-control.

If Mme. de Maintenon were not, at first, loved by the king, it was because she appeared to
him too ideal, sublime, spirituelle, too severely sensible. Then came the turning point; at
forty years of age she was "a beautiful and stately woman with brilliant dark eyes, clear complexion,
beautiful white teeth, and graceful manners;" sedate, self-possessed, and astonished at nothing,
she had learned the art of waiting, and studied the king—showing him those qualities he desired
to see.

Her aim became to take the king from his mistress and lead him back to the queen. After gaining
his confidence by her sincerity and trustworthiness, and making herself indispensable to him,
she succeeded in bringing about the desired separation, through the medium of the dauphiness,
whom she won over to her cause. Thus, without perfidy, hypocrisy, intrigue, or manœuvring,
by simply being herself, she replaced the haughty and beautiful Mme. de Montespan.

When, after the queen's death, and after having lived about the king for fifteen years, "she
had succeeded in making the devotee take precedence of the lover, when piety had overcome passion,
when religion had effected its change, then Louis the Great offered his hand in marriage to
her who had only veneration, gratitude, and devotion for him, but no passion or love." Reasons
of state demanded the secrecy of the marriage; for had he raised her to the throne, political
complications would have arisen and disturbed his subsequent career; Mme. de Maintenon fully
appreciated the intricacies of the situation, and was therefore content to remain what she was.

She came to the king when he was beginning to feel the effects of his former mode of life;
he needed fidelity and friendship, and he saw these in her. His feelings for her are well described
in the following extract by M. Saint-Amand:

"To sum up: the king's sentiment for her was of the most complex nature. There was in it a
mingling of religion and of physical love, a calculation of reason and an impulse of the heart,
an aspiration after the mild joys of family life and a romantic inclination—a sort of compact
between French good sense, subjugated by the wit, tact, and wisdom of an eminent woman, and
Spanish imagination allured by the fancy of having extricated this elect woman from poverty
in order to make her almost a queen. Finally, it must be noted that Louis XIV., always religiously
inclined, was convinced that Mme. de Maintenon had been sent to him by Heaven for his salvation,
and that the pious counsels of this saintly woman, who knew how to render devotion so agreeable
and attractive, seemed to him to be so many inspirations from on High."

It must not be inferred, however, that the feeling for Mme. de Maintenon was purely ideal.
"He was unwilling to remarry," says the Abbé de Choisy, "because of tenderness for his people.
He had, already, three grandsons, and wisely judged that the princes of a second marriage might,
in course of time, cause civil wars. On the other hand, he could not dispense with a wife and
Mme. de Maintenon pleased him greatly. Her gentle and scintillating wit promised him an agreeable
intercourse which would refresh him after the cares of royalty. Her person was still engaging
and her age prevented her from having children."

As his wife, Mme. de Maintenon took more interest in the king and his family than she did in
the affairs of the kingdom. To be the wife of the hearth and home, to educate the princes,
to rear the young Duchess of Bourgogne, granddaughter of Louis XIV., to calm and ease the old
age of the king and to distract and amuse him, became her sole objects in life. Her power,
thus directed, became almost unbounded; she was the dispenser of favors and the real ruler,
sitting in the cabinet of the king; and her counsels were so wise that they soon became invaluable.

At court, she opposed all foolish extravagance, such as the endless fêtes and amusements of
all kinds which had become so popular under Mme. de Montespan—a procedure which caused her
the greatest difficulties and provoked revolts and quarrels in the royal family. By her prudence,
tact, wisdom, and the loyalty of her friendship, she won and retained the respect and favor—if
not the love—of everyone. Her reputation was never tarnished by scandal. "When one reflects
that Louis XIV. was only forty-seven years old and in the prime of life and Mme. de Montespan
in the full blaze of her marvellous beauty, that this woman of humble birth, in her youth a
Protestant, poor, a governess, the widow of a low, comic poet, should win so proud a man as
Louis XIV., seems incredible."

When one considers that throughout life her one aspiration was an irreproachable conduct, that
her manner of action was always defensive, never offensive, that her chief aim was to restore
the king to the queen (who died in her arms) and not to replace his mistress, one cannot withhold
admiration and esteem from this truly great woman who accomplished all those honorable designs.

The obstacles to be conquered before reaching her goal were indeed numerous, but she managed
them all. There were so many persons hostile to her,—mistresses and intriguers, bishops and
priests, courtesans and valets, princes and members of the royal family,—to overcome whom she
had to be on her guard, make use of every opportunity, show a rare knowledge of society and
court, a profound skill and address, resolution and will; and she was equal to all occasions.

Her greatest defect was the narrowness of her religious views. Entirely in the hands of her
spiritual advisers, obeying them faithfully and blindly, she was not inclined to theological
investigation, but was sincerely devout. More interested in the various persons than in doctrines,
she showed a passion for making bishops, abbots, and priests, as well as for negotiating compromises,
reconciling amours propres and doing away with all religious hatred. Lacking, above all else,
clearness of conception, promptness and firmness of decision, she was finally persuaded to
encourage the bigotry of Louis XIV. and his intolerance toward those who differed from him.
Hence, in 1685, she permitted that fearfully destructive persecution of the Protestants, which
caused over three hundred thousand of France's most solid people to leave the country; and
by her fanaticism and false zeal, she caused the king to be a party to that awful catastrophe.

"This one act of hers counterbalances nearly all her virtues, and we remember her more as the
murderess of thousands of innocents than as the calm and virtuous governess. But we must remember
the nature of her advisers and the eternal policy of the Catholic Church, which are ever identical
with absolutism. To uphold the institutions and opinions already established, was the one sentiment
of the age; innovation, progress, were destructive—Mme. de Maintenon became the watchful guardian
of royalty and the Church." Such is the verdict of English opinion. M. Saint-Amand judges the
affair differently:

"A woman as pious and reasonable as she was, animated always by the noblest intentions, loving
her country and always showing sympathy for the poor people—not merely in words but in deeds
as well—detesting war and loving justice and peace, always moderate and irreproachable in her
conduct—such a woman cannot be the mischievous, crafty, malicious, and vindictive bigot imagined
by many writers; she did not encourage such an act, nor would her nature permit to do so....
The prayer she uttered every morning, best portrays the woman and her rôle: 'Lord, grant me
to gladden the king, to console him, to sadden him when it must be for Thy glory. Cause me
to hide from him nothing which he ought to know through me, and which no one else would have
courage to tell him.' ... To Madame de Glapion she said: 'I would like to die before the king;
I would go to God; I would cast myself at the foot of His throne; I would offer Him the desires
of a soul that He would have purified; I would pray Him to grant the king greater enlightenment,
more love for his people, more knowledge of the state of the provinces, more aversion for the
perfidy of the countries, more horror of the ways in which his authority is abused: and God
would hear my prayers.'"

This pious woman was weary of life before her marriage, and but changed the nature of her misery
upon reaching the highest goal open to a woman. Marly, Versailles, Fontainebleau were only
different names for the same servitude. When she had attained her desire, she thought her repose
assured; instead, her ennui, her disgust of life and the world, only increased; realizing this,
she began to direct her thoughts entirely toward God and her aspirations toward things not
of this earth—hence the almost complete absence of her influence in politics.

She was never happy, and that her life was a disappointment to her may be gathered from the
following words from her pen: "Flee from men as from your mortal enemies; never be alone with
them. Take no pleasure in hearing that you are pretty, amiable, that you have a fine voice.
The world is a malicious deceiver which never means what it says; and the majority of men who
say such things to young girls, do it hoping to find some means of ruining them."

Her most intense desire seemed to be to please, and be esteemed—to receive the honneur du monde,
which appeared to be her sole motive for living. When in power, she did not use her influence
as the intriguing women of the epoch would have done, because she did not possess their qualities—taste,
breadth of vision, and selfish ambitions. Her objects in life were the reform of a wicked court,
the extirpation of heresy, the elevation of men of genius, and the improvement of the society
and religion of France. After the death of the king (in 1715), she retired to Saint-Cyr, and
spent the remainder of her life in acts of charity and devotional exercises.

After the king's death she dismissed all her servants and disposed of her carriages as well,
"unable to reconcile herself to feeding horses while so many young girls were in need," as
she said. For almost four years she peacefully and happily lived in a very modest apartment.
She seldom went out and then only to the village to visit the sick and the poor. On June 10,
1717, when she was eighty-one years old, Peter the Great went to Saint-Cyr for the purpose
of seeing and talking to the greatest woman of France. He found her confined to her bed; the
chamber being but dimly lighted, he thrust aside the curtain in order to examine the features
of the woman who had ruled the destinies of France for so many years. The Czar talked to her
for some time, and when he asked Madame de Maintenon from what she was suffering, she replied:
"From great old age." She died on August 15, 1719, and was buried in the choir of the church
of Saint-Cyr, where a modest slab of marble indicated the spot where her body reposed until,
in 1794, when the church was being transformed into hospital wards, "the workmen opened the
vault, and took out the body and dragged it into the court with dreadful yells and threw it,
stripped and mutilated, into a hole in the cemetery."

The greatest work of Mme. de Maintenon was the founding of the Seminary of Saint-Cyr, which
the king granted to her about the time of their marriage and of his illness; it was probably
intended as the penance of a sick man who wished to make reparation for the wrongs inflicted
upon some of the young girls of the nobility, and as a wedding gift to Mme. de Maintenon. There,
aided by nuns, she cared for and educated two hundred and fifty pupils, dowerless daughters
of impoverished nobles. It was "the veritable offspring of her who was never a daughter, a
wife, nor a mother." There she was happy and content; there she recalled her own youth when
she was poor and forsaken; there she found respite from the turmoils and agitations of Versailles;
there she was supreme; there she governed absolutely and was truly loved.

For thirty years she was queen at Saint-Cyr, visiting it every other day and teaching the young
girls for whom it was a protection against the world. Since childhood, she had been so accustomed
to serve herself, to wait upon others and to care for the smallest details of the management
of the household, that she introduced this spirit into society and at Saint-Cyr, where she
managed every detail, from the linen to the provisions; this showed a reasonable and well-balanced
mind, but not any high order of intelligence.

Of the young girls in her charge, she desired to make model women, characterized by simplicity
and piety; they were to be free from morbid curiosity of mind, were to practise absolute self-denial
and to devote their lives to a practical labor. Her advice was: "Be reasonable or you will
be unhappy; if you are haughty, you will be reminded of your misery, but if you are humble,
people will recall your birth.... Commence by making yourself loved, without which you will
never succeed. Is it not true that, had you not loved me or had you had an aversion for me,
you would not have accepted, with such good grace, the counsels that I have given you? This
is absolutely certain—the most beautiful things when taught by persons who displease us, do
not impress but rather harden us."

A counsel that strikes home forcibly to-day, one which strongly attacks the modern fad of neglecting
home for church, is expressed well in one of her letters: "Your piety will not be right if,
when married, you abandon your husband, your children and your servants, to go to the churches
at times when you are not obliged to go there. When a young girl says that a woman would do
better properly to raise her children and instruct her servants, than to spend her morning
in church, one can accommodate one's self to such religion, which she will cause to be loved
and respected."

At the hour of leisure, she gave the girls those familiar talks which were anticipated by them
with so much pleasure, and extracts from which are still cherished by the young women of France.
She believed that the aim of instruction for young girls should be to educate them to be Christian
women with well-balanced and logical minds. With her varied experience of the ups and downs
of life, she gradually came to the conclusion that, after all, there is nothing in the world
so good as sound common sense, but one that is not enamored of itself, which obeys established
laws and knows its own limits. Her sex is intended to obey, thus her reason was a Christian reason.

"You can be truly reasonable only in proportion as you are subservient to God.... Never tell
children fantastic stories, nor permit them to believe them; give them things for what they
are worth. Never tell them stories of which, when they grow to independent reasoning, you must
disillusion them. You must talk to a girl of seven as seriously and with as much reason as
to a young lady of twenty. You must take part in the pleasures of children, but never accommodate
them with a childish language or with foolish or puerile ways. You can never be too reasonable
or too sane. Religion, reason, and truth are always good."

To appreciate the importance of Mme. de Maintenon's position and the revolutionary effect which
her attitude produced upon the customs of the time, one must remember with what she had to
contend. Hers was a period of passion and adventure—a period which was followed by sorrow and
disaster. The novels of Mlle. de Scudéry, which were at the height of their popularity, had
over-refined the sentiments; the chevaleresque heroes and picturesque heroines turned the heads
of young girls, who dreamed of an ideal and perfect love; their one longing was for the romantic—for
the enchantments and delights of life. In this stilted and amorous atmosphere, Mme. de Maintenon
preserved her poise and fought vigorously against the fads of the day. The young girls under
her care were taught to love just as they were taught to do other things—with reason. Also,
she guarded against the weaknesses of nature and the flesh. "Than Mme. de Maintenon, no one
ever better knew the evils of the world without having fallen prey to them," says Sainte-Beuve;
"and no one ever satisfied and disgusted the world more, while charming it at the same time."

Mme. de Maintenon's ideal methods of education were not immediately effective; there were many
periods of hardship, apprehension, and doubt. Thus, when Racine's Esther (written at the request
of Mme. de Maintenon, to be presented by the pupils at Saint-Cyr) was performed, there sprang
up a taste for poetry, writing, and literature of all kinds. The acting turned the girls' thoughts
into other channels and threatened to counteract the teachings of simplicity and reason; no
one ever showed more genuine good sense, wholesomeness of mind, and breadth of view, than were
displayed by Mme. de Maintenon in dealing with these disheartening drawbacks.

In endeavoring to impress upon those young minds the correct use of language and the proper
style of writing, she wrote for them models of letters which showed simplicity, precision,
truth, facility, and wonderful clearness; and these were imitated by them in their replies to her.

She wished, above all, to make them realize that her experience with that social and court
life, for which they longed, was one of disappointment: that was a world apart, in which amusing
and being amused was the one occupation. She had passed wearily through that period of life,
and sought repose, truth, tranquillity, and religious resignation; to make those young spirits
feel the fallacy of such a mode of existence was her earnest desire, and her efforts in that
direction were characterized by a zeal, energy, and persistence which were productive of wonderful
results. That was one phase of her greatness and influence.

But Mme. de Maintenon was somewhat too severe, too narrow, too strict,—one might say, too ascetic,—in
her teaching. There was too little of that which, in this world, cheers, invigorates, and enlivens.
Her instruction was all reason, without relieving features; it lacked what Sainte-Beuve calls
the don des larmes (gift of tears). Hers was a noble, just, courageous, and delicate judgment;
but it was without the softening qualities of the truly feminine, which calls for tears and
affection, tenderness and sympathy.

She remains in educational affairs the greatest woman of the seventeenth century, if not of
all her countrywomen. M. Faguet says: "This widow of Scarron, who was nearly Queen of France,
was born minister of public instruction." She powerfully upheld the cause of morality, was
a liberal patroness of education and learning, and all aspiring geniuses were encouraged and
financially aided by her. It was she who impressed upon Louis XIV. the truth of the existence
of a God to whom he was accountable for his acts—a teaching which contributed no little to
the general purification of morals at court.

The writings of Mme. de Maintenon occupy a very high place in the history of French literature;
in fact, her letters have often been compared with those of Mme. de Sévigné, although, unlike
the latter, she never wrote merely to please, but to instruct, to convert, and to console.
In her works there was no pretension to literary style; they were sermons on morals, characterized
by discretion and simplicity, dignity and persuasiveness, seriousness and earnestness; Napoleon
placed her letters above those of Mme. de Sévigné. M. Saint-Amand says of her writings: "More
reflection than vivacity, more wisdom than passion, more gravity than charm, more authority
than grace, more solidity than brilliancy—such are the characteristics of a correspondence
which might justify the expression, the style is the woman."

He gives, also, the following discriminating comparison between the two writers: "Enjoyment,
Gallic animation, good-tempered gayety, fall to the lot of Mme. de Sévigné; what marks Mme.
de Maintenon is experience, reason, profundity. The one laughs from ear to ear—the other barely
smiles. The one has pleasant illusions about everything, admiration which borders on naïveté,
ecstasies when in the presence of the royal sun: the other never permits herself to be fascinated
by either the king or the court, by men, women, or things. She has seen human grandeur too
close at hand not to understand its nothingness, and her conclusions bear the imprint of a
profound sadness. At times Mme. de Sévigné, also, has attacks of melancholy, but the cloud
passes quickly and she is again in the sunshine. Gayety—frank, communicative, radiant gayety—is
the basis of the character of this woman who is more witty, seductive, and amusing than is
any other. Mme. de Sévigné shines by imagination—Mme. de Maintenon by judgment. The one permits
herself to be dazzled, intoxicated—the other always preserves her indifference. The one exaggerates
the splendors of the court—the other sees them as they are. The one is more of a woman—the
other more of a saint."

Mme. de Maintenon may be called "a woman of fate," She was never daughter, mother, or wife;
as a child, she was not loved by her mother, and her father was worthless; married to two men,
both aged beyond their years, she was, indeed, but an instrument of fate. Truthful, candid,
and discreet she was entirely free from all morbid tendencies, and was modest and chaste from
inclination as well as from principle. Though outwardly cold, proud, and reserved, yet in her
deportment toward those who were fortunate enough to possess her esteem, she was kind—even
loving. While not intelligent to a remarkable degree, she was prudent, circumspect, and shrewd,
never losing her self-control. When once interested, and convinced as to the proper course,
she displayed marvellous strength of will, sagacity, and personal force. Beautiful and witty,
she easily adapted herself to any position in which she might be placed; though intolerant
and narrow in her religious views, she was otherwise gentle, charitable, and unselfish. Therefore,
it is evident that she possessed, to a greater degree than did any other woman of her time,
unusual as well as desirable qualities—qualities that made her powerful and incomparable.

It is not within the limits of reason to expect women to rival, in literature, the great writers
such as Corneille, Racine, Molière, Bossuet, La Fontaine, Descartes, Pascal—most of whom were
but little influenced by femininity; there were those, however, among the sex, who were conspicuous
for elevation of thought, dignity in manner and bearing, and brilliancy in conversation—attributes
which they have left to posterity in numberless exquisite and charming letters, in interesting
and invaluable memoirs, or in consummate psychological and social portraitures incorporated
into the form of novels. Among female writers of letters, Mme. de Sévigné wears the laurel
wreath; Mme. de La Fayette, with Mlle. de Scudéry, is the representative of the novel; Mme.
Dacier was the great advocate of the more liberal education of women; and the Souvenirs of
Mme. de Caylus made that authoress immortal.

The association of La Rochefoucauld, the Cardinal de Retz, the Chevalier de Meré, Mme. de La
Fayette, and Mme. de Sévigné, was responsible for almost everything elevating and of interest
produced in the seventeenth century. Of that highly intellectual circle, Mme. de Sévigné was
the leading spirit by force of her extraordinary faculty for making friends, her wonderful
talent as a writer, her originality and her charming disposition. She gave the tone to letters;
M. Faguet says that her epistles were all masterpieces of amiable badinage, lively narration,
maternal passion, true eloquence. More than that, they are important sources of historical
knowledge, inasmuch as they contain much information concerning the politics of the day, and
furnish an excellent guide to the etiquette, fashions, tastes, and literature of the writer's
period.

Mme. de Sévigné was the most important figure of the time, being to that third prodigiously
intellectual epoch of France what Marguerite de Navarre was to the sixteenth century, and the
Hôtel de Rambouillet to the beginning of the seventeenth century. She represented the style,
esprit, elegance, and goût of this greatest of French cultural periods. Her life may be considered
as having had two distinct phases—one connected with an unhappy marriage and the other the
period of a restless widowhood.

Marie de Rabutin-Chantal, Marchioness of Sévigné, was born at Paris, in 1626; at the age of
eighteen months she lost her father; at seven years of age, her mother; at eight, her grandmother;
at ten, her grandfather on her mother's side; she was thus left with her paternal grandmother,
Mme. de Chantal, who had her carefully educated under the best masters, such as Ménage and
Chapelain (court favorites), from whom she early imbibed a genuine taste for solid reading;
from these instructors she learned Spanish, Italian, and Latin.

In 1644, she was married to the Marquis Henri de Sévigné, who was killed six years later in
a duel, but who had, in the meantime, succeeded in making a considerable gap in her immense
fortune, in spite of the precautions of her uncle, the Abbé of Coulanges. Henceforward, her
interests in life were centred in the education of her two children; to them she wrote letters
which have brought her name down to posterity as, possibly, the greatest epistolary writer
that the history of literature has ever recorded.

Mme. de Sévigné was but nineteen years old when, after the marriage of Julie d'Angennes, the
frequenters of the Hôtel de Rambouillet began to disperse, and she was in much demand by the
successors of Mme. de Rambouillet. While the women of the reign of Louis XIII.—Mmes. de Hautefort,
de Sablé, de Longueville, de Chevreuse, etc.—were exceedingly talented talkers, they were poor
writers: but in Mme. de Sévigné, Mme. de La Fayette, and Mlle. de Scudéry both arts were developed
to the highest degree.

Mme. de Sévigné was on the best terms with every great writer of her time—Pascal, Racine, La
Fontaine, Bossuet, Bourdaloue, La Rochefoucauld. She was a woman of such broad affections that
numerous friends and admirers were a necessary part of her existence. Of all the eminent women
of the seventeenth century, she had the greatest number of lovers—suitors who frequently became
her tormentors. Ménage, her teacher, who threatened to leave her never to see her again, was
brought back to her by kind words, such as: "Farewell, friend—of all my friends the best."
The Abbé Marigny, that "delicate epicurean, that improviser of fine triolets, ballads, vaudevilles,
that enemy of all sadness and sticklers for morality," charmed her, at times, with sentimental
ballads, such as the following:

  "Si l'amour est un doux servage,
  Si l'on ne peut trop estimer
  Les plaisirs ou l'amour engage,
  Qu'on est sot de ne pas aimer!

  "Mais si l'on se sent enflammer
  D'un feu dont l'ardeur est extrême,
  Et qu'on n'ose pas l'exprimer,
  Qu'on est sot alors que l'on aime!

  "Si dans la fleur de son bel âge,
  Une qui pourrait tout charmer,
  Vous donne son cœur en partage,
  Qu'on est sot de ne point aimer!

  "Mais s'il faut toujours s'alarmer,
  Craindre, rougir, devenir blême,
  Aussitôt qu'on s'entend nommer,
  Qu'on est sot alors que l'on aime!
  Si la belle est toujours de même,
  Sans que rien la puisse animer,
  Qu'on est sot alors que l'on aime!

"L'ENVOI.

  "En amour si rien n'est amer,
  Qu'on est sot de ne pas aimer!
  Si tout l'est au degré suprême,
  Qu'on est sot alors que l'on aime!

  [If love is a sweet bondage,
  If we cannot esteem too much
  The pleasures in which love engages,
  How foolish one is not to love!

  But if we feel ourselves inflamed
  With a passion whose ardor is extreme,
  And which we dare not express,
  How foolish we are, then, to love!

  If in the flower of her youth
  There is one who could charm all.
  And offers you her heart to share,
  How very foolish not to love!

  But if we must always be full of alarm—
  Fear, blush and become pallid,
  As soon as our name is spoken,
  How foolish to love!

  If to please the most beautiful countenance
  That love can ever form,
  Only a mellow language is necessary,
  How foolish not to love!

  But if we see ourselves wasting away,
  If the belle is always the same
  And cannot be animated,
  How very foolish to love!

ENVOY.

  If in love, nothing is bitter,
  How dreadfully foolish not to love!
  If everything is so to the highest degree,
  How awfully foolish to love!]

Tréville went so far as to say that the figure of Mme. de Sévigné was beautiful enough to set
the world afire. M. du Bled divides her lovers into three classes: the first was composed of
her literary friends; the second, of those enamored, impassioned suitors, loving her from good
motives or from the opposite, who strove to compensate her for the unfaithfulness of her husband
while alive and for the ennui of her widowhood; the third class was composed of her Parisian
friends, of whom she had hosts, court habitués who were leaders of society.

Representatives of the second class were the Prince de Conti, the great Turenne, various counts
and marquises, and Bussy-Rabutin, who was a type of the sensual lover and the more dangerous
on account of the privileges he enjoyed because of his close relationship to Mme. de Sévigné.
His portrait of her is interesting: "I must tell you, madame, that I do not think there is
a person in the world so generally esteemed as you are. You are the delight of humankind; antiquity
would have erected altars to you, and you would certainly have been a goddess of something.
In our century, when we are not so lavish with incense, and especially for living merit, we
are contented to say that there is not a woman of your age more virtuous and more amiable than
are you. I know princes of the blood, foreign princes, great lords with princely manners, great
captains, gentlemen, ministers of state, who would be off and away for you, if you would permit
them. Can you ask any more?"

Such eulogies came not only from men like the perfidious and cruel cousin, but from her friends
everywhere. The finest of these is the one by her friend Mme. de La Fayette, contained in one
of the epistolary portraits so much in vogue at that time, and which were turned out, par excellence,
in the salon of Mlle. de Luxembourg: "Know, madame,—if by chance you do not already know it,—that
your mind adorns and embellishes your person so well that there is not another one on earth
so charming as you when you are animated in a conversation in which all constraint is banished.
Your soul is great, noble, ready to dispense with treasures, and incapable of lowering itself
to the care of amassing them. You are sensible to glory and ambition, and to pleasures you
are less so; yet you appear to be born for the latter, and they made for you; your person augments
pleasures, and pleasures increase your beauty when they surround you. Joy is the veritable
state of your soul, and chagrin is more unlike to you than to anyone. You are the most civil
and obliging person that ever lived, and by a free and calm air—which is in all your actions—the
simplest compliments of seemliness appear, in your mouth, as protestations of friendship."

The originality which gained Mme. de Sévigné so many friends lay principally in her force,
wealth of resource, intensity, sincerity, and frankness. M. Scherer said she possessed "surprises
for us, infinite energy, inexhaustible variety—everything that eternally revives interest."

The interest of the modern world in this remarkable woman is centred mainly in her letters.

She had married her daughter to the Comte de Grignan, a man of forty, twice married, and with
children, homely, but wealthy and aristocratic; writing to her cousin, Bussy-Rabutin, concerning
this marriage, she said: "All these women (the count's former wives) died expressly to make
room for your cousin." By marrying her daughter to such a man she encouraged all the questionable
proprieties of the time. Mme. de Sévigné's affection for that daughter amounted almost to idolatry;
it was to her that most of the mother's letters were written, telling her of her health, what
was being done at Vichy, and about her business and for that child the authoress gave up her
life at Paris in order to economize and thereby to help Mme. de Grignan in her extravagance,
her son-in-law being an expert in spending money.

The letters of Mme. de Sévigné contain a great number of sayings applicable to habits and conduct,
and these have had their part in shaping the customs and in depicting the time. To be modest
and moderate, friendly, and conciliatory, to be content with one's lot and to bow to circumstances,
to be sincere, to cultivate good sense and good grace—these counsels have been and still are,
according to French opinion, the basis of French character: and Mme. de Sévigné's own popularity
and success attest their wisdom.

She had not the gift of seeing things vividly and reproducing them in living form; her talent
was a rarer one—it induced the reader to form a mental picture of the scene described, so vivid
as to be under the illusion of being present in reality; and this is done with so much grace,
charm, happy ease and naturalness, that to read her letters means to love the writer. What
mother or friend would not fall a willing victim to the charm of a woman who could write the
following letter?

Mme. de Sévigné never bored her readers with her own reflections. She differed from her contemporaries,
who seemed to be dead to nature's beauty, in her striking descriptions of nature. A close observer,
she knew how to describe a landscape; animating and enlivening it, and making it talk, she
inspired the reader with love of it.

"I am going to be alone and I am very glad. Provided they do not take away from me the charming
country, the shore of the Allier, the woods, streams, and meadows, the sheep and goats, the
peasant girls who dance the bourrée in the fields, I consent to say adieu; the country alone
will cure me.... I have come here to end the beautiful days and to say adieu to the foliage—it
is still on the trees, it has only changed color; instead of being green, it is golden, and
of so many golden tints that it makes a brocade of rich and magnificent gold, which we are
likely to find more beautiful than the green, if only it were not for the changing part."

If the style of her letters did not make her the greatest prose writer of her time, it certainly
entitled her to rank as one of the most original. The prose of the seventeenth century lacked
"easy suppleness in lively movement, and imagination in the expression"—two qualities which
Mme. de Sévigné possessed in a high degree. The slow and grave development, the just and harmonious
equilibrium, the amplitude, are in her supplanted by a quick, alert, and free saillie; the
detail and marvellous exactness are enriched by color, abundance of imagery, and metaphors.
M. Faguet says she is to prose what La Fontaine is to poetry.

The literary style of Mme. de Sévigné is not learned, studied, nor labored. In an epoch in
which the language was already formed, she did what Montaigne did a century before, when, we
may almost assert, he had to create the French language. Her most striking expressions are
her own—newly coined, not taken from the vocabulary in usage. Her style cannot be duplicated,
and for this reason she has few imitators. Her letters show that they were improvised—her pen
doing, alone, the work over which she seemed to have no control when communicating with her
daughter; to the latter she said: "I write prose with a facility that will kill you."

Mme. de Sévigné was possibly not a beautiful woman, but she was a charming one; broad in the
scope of her affections, she found the making of friends no difficult task. M. Vallery-Radot
leaves the following picture of her: "A blonde, with exuberant health, a transparent complexion,
blue eyes, so frank, so limpid, a nose somewhat square, a mouth ready to smile, shoulders that
seem to lend splendor to her pearl necklace. Her gayety and goodness are so in evidence that
there is about her a kind of atmosphere of good humor."

M. du Bled most admirably sums up her character and writings in the following: "She is the
person who most resembles her writings—that is, those that are found; for alas! many (the most
confidential, the most interesting, I think) are lost forever: in them she is reflected as
she reflects French society in them. Endowed—morally and physically—with a robust health, she
is expansive, loyal, confiding, impressionable, loving gayety in full abundance as much as
she does the smile of the refined, as eager for the prattle of the court as for solid reading,
smitten with nobiliary pride, a captive of the prejudices, superstitions and tastes of her
caste (or of even her coterie), with her pen hardly tender for her neighbor—her daughter and
intimates excepted. A manager and a woman of imagination, a Frondist at the bottom of her soul,
and somewhat of a Jansenist—not enough, however, not to cry out that Louis XIV. will obscure
the glory of his predecessors because he had just danced with her—faithful to her friends (Retz,
Fouquet, Pomponne) in disgrace and detesting their persecutors, seeking the favor of court
for her children. In the salons, she is celebrated for her esprit—and this at an age when one
seldom thinks about reputation, when one is like the princess who replied to a question on
the state of her soul, 'At twenty one has no soul;' and she possesses the qualities that are
so essential to style—natural éclat, originality of expression, grace, color, amplitude without
pomposity and abundance without prolixity; moreover, she invents nothing, but, knowing how
to observe and to express in perfection everything she had seen and felt, she is a witness
and painter of her century: also, she loves nature—a sentiment very rare in the seventeenth
century."

Mme. de Sévigné was endowed with the best qualities of the French race—good will and friendliness,
which influence one to judge others favorably and to desire their esteem; of a very impressionable
nature, she was gifted with a natural eloquence which enabled her to express her various emotions
in a light or gay vein which often bordered on irony. Affectionate and appreciative and tender
and kind to everyone in general, toward those whom she loved she was generous to a fault and
unswerving in her fidelity.

Her last years were spent in the midst of her family. She died in 1696, of small-pox, thanking
God that she was the first to go, after having trembled for the life of her daughter, whom
she had nursed back to health after a long and dangerous illness.

In order to give an idea of the place that Mme. de Sévigné holds in the opinion of the average
Frenchman, we quote the final words of M. Vallery-Radot:

"To take a place among the greatest writers, without ever having written a book or even having
thought of writing one—this is what seems impossible, and yet this is what happened to Mme.
de Sévigné. Her contemporaries knew her as a woman distinguished for her esprit, frank, playful
and sprightly humor, irreproachable conduct, loyalty to her friends, and as an idolizer of
her daughter; no one suspected that she would partake of the glory of our classical authors—and
she, less than any one. She had immortalized herself, without wishing or knowing it, by an
intimate correspondence which is, to-day, universally regarded as one of the most precious
treasures and one of the most original monuments to French literature. To deceive the ennui
of absence, she wrote to her daughter all that she had in her heart and that came to her mind—what
she did, wished to do, saw and learned, news of court, city, Brittany, army, everything—sadly
or gayly, according to the subject, always with the most keen, ardent, delicate, and touching
sentiments of tenderness and sympathy. She amuses, instructs, interests, moves to tears or
laughter. All that passes within or before her, passes within and before us. If she depicts
an object, we see it; if she relates an event, we are present at its occurrence; if she makes
a character talk, we hear his words, see his gestures, and distinguish his accent. All is true,
real, living: this is more than talent—it is enchantment. Generations pass away in turn; a
single one, or, rather, a group escapes the general oblivion—the group of friends of Mme. de
Sévigné."

A woman with characteristics the very opposite of those of Mme. de Sévigné, but who in some
respects resembled her, was Mme. de La Fayette. Of her life, very little is to be said, except
in regard to her lasting friendship and attachment for La Rochefoucauld. She was born in 1634,
and, with Mme. de Sévigné, was probably the best educated among the great women of the seventeenth
century. She was faithful to her husband, the Count of La Fayette, who, in 1665, took her to
Paris, where she formed her lifelong attachment for the great La Rochefoucauld, and where she
won immediate recognition for her exquisite politeness and as a woman with a large fund of
common sense.

After her marriage, she seemed to have but one interest—La Rochefoucauld, just as that of Mme.
de Maintenon was Louis XIV. and that of Mme. de Sévigné—her daughter. These three prominent
women illustrate remarkably well that predominant trait of French women—faithfulness to a chosen
cause; each one of the three was vitally concerned in an enduring, a legitimate, and sincere
attachment, which state of affairs gives a certain distinction to the society of the time of
Louis XIV.

Mme. de La Fayette, like Mme. de Sévigné, possessed an exceptional talent for making and retaining
friends. She kept aloof from intrigues, in fact, knew nothing about them, and consequently
never schemed to use her favor at court for purposes of self-interest. Two qualities belonged
to her more than to any of her contemporaries—an instinct which was superior to her reason,
and a love of truth in all things.

Compared with those of Mme. de Rambouillet, it is said that her attainments were of a more
solid nature; and while Mlle. de Scudéry had greater brilliancy, Mme. de La Fayette had better
judgment. These qualities combined with an exquisite delicacy, fine sentiment, calmness, and
depth of reason, the very basis of her nature, are reflected in her works. Sainte-Beuve says
that "her reason and experience cool her passion and temper the ideal with the results of observation."
She was one of the very few women playing any rôle in French history who were endowed with
all things necessary to happiness—fortune, reputation, talent, intimate and ideal friendship.
Extremely sensitive to surroundings, she readily received impressions—a gift which was the
source of a somewhat doubtful happiness.

In her later days, notwithstanding terrible suffering, she became more devout and exhibited
an admirable resignation. A letter to Ménage will show the mental and physical state reached
by her in her last days: "Although you forbid me to write to you, I wish, nevertheless, to
tell you how truly affected I am by your friendship. I appreciate it as much as when I used
to see it; it is dear to me for its own worth, it is dear to me because it is at present the
only one I have. Time and old age have taken all my friends away from me.... I must tell you
the state I am in. I am, first of all, a mortal divinity, and to an excess inconceivable; I
have obstructions in my entrails—sad, inexpressible feelings; I have no spirit, no force—I
cannot read or apply myself. The slightest things affect me—a fly appears an elephant to me;
that is my ordinary state.... I cannot believe that I can live long in this condition, and
my life is too disagreeable to permit me to fear the end. I surrender myself to the will of
God; He is the All-Powerful, and, from all sides, we must go to Him at last. They assure me
that you are thinking seriously of your salvation, and I am very happy over it."

There probably never existed a more ideal friendship between two French women, one more lasting,
sincere, perfect in every way, than that of Mme. de Sévigné and Mme. de La Fayette. The major
part of the information we possess regarding events in the life of Mme. de La Fayette is obtained
from their letters. I was assured, too, that I was her dearest consolation—which, for forty
years past, had been the case." Day comes—I get up—I go to the window. Otherwise, I am very
well, and I haven't so much as a pain in my head."

Her depressing melancholy kept her indoors a great deal; in fact, after 1683, after the death
of the queen, who was one of her best friends, she was seldom seen at court. Mme. de Sévigné
gives good reason for this in her letter:

"She had a mortal melancholy. Again, what absurdity! is she not the most fortunate woman in
the world?

Her liaison with La Rochefoucauld is the one delicate and tender point in her life, a relation
that afforded her much happiness and finally completed the ruin of her health. M. d'Haussonville
said: "It is true that he took possession of her soul and intellect, little by little, so that
the two beings, in the eyes of their contemporaries, were but one; for after his death (1680)
she lived but an incomplete and mutilated existence."

Some critics have ventured to pronounce this liaison one of material love solely, others are
convinced of its morality and pure friendship. In favor of the latter view, M. d'Haussonville
suggests the fact that Mme. de La Fayette was over thirty years of age when she became interested
in La Rochefoucauld, and that at that age women rarely ally themselves with men from emotions
of physical love merely. At that age it is reason that mutually attracts two beings; and this
feeling was probably the predominant one in that case, because her entire career was one of
the most extreme reserve, conservatism, good sense, and propriety. However, other proofs are
brought forward to show that there was between the two a sort of moral marriage, so many examples
of which are found in the seventeenth century between people of prominence, both of whom happened
to have unhappy conjugal experiences.

French society, one must remember, was different from any in the world; it seems to have been
a large family gathering, the members of which were as intimate, took as much interest in each
other's affairs, showed as much sympathy for one another and participated in each other's sorrows
and pleasures, as though they were children of the same parents.

In his early days, La Rochefoucauld found it convenient, for selfish purposes, to simulate
an ardent passion for Mme. de Longueville, of which mention has been made in the chapter relating
to Mme. de Longueville. In his later period, he had settled down to a normal mode of life and
sought the friendship of a more reasonable and less passionate woman.

Mme. de La Fayette exercised a great influence upon La Rochefoucauld—an influence that was
wholesome in every way. It was through her influential friends at court that he was helped
into possession of his property, and it was she who maintained it for him. As to his literary
work (his Maxims), her influence over him was supposed to have somewhat modified his ideas
on women and to have softened his tone in general. She wrote: "He gave me wit, but I reformed
his heart." M. d'Haussonville has proved, without doubt, that her restraint modified many of
his maxims that were tinged with the spirit of the commonplace and trivial. While Mme. de Sablé—essentially
a moralist and a deeply religious woman—was more of a companion to him, and though his maxims
were, for the greater part, composed in her salon, Mme. de La Fayette, by her tenderness and
judgment, tempered the tone of them before they reached the public.

Mme. de La Fayette will always be known, however, as the great novelist of the seventeenth
century. Two novels, two stories, two historical works, and her memoirs, make up her literary
budget. M. d'Haussonville claims that her memoirs of the court of France are not reliable,
because she was so often absent from court; also, in them she shows a tendency to avenge herself,
in a way, upon Mme. de Maintenon, whose friend she was until the trouble between this lady
and Mme. de Montespan occurred. The latter was the intimate friend of Mme. de La Fayette. As
for her literary work proper, her desire to write was possibly encouraged, if not created,
by her indulgence in the general fad of writing portraitures, in which she was especially successful
in portraying Mme. de Sévigné. Her literary effort was, besides, a revolt of her own taste
and sense against the pompous and inflated language of the novels of the day and against the
great length of the development of the events and adventures in them. Thus, Mme. de La Fayette
inaugurated a new style of novel; to show her influence, it will be well to consider the state
of the Romanesque novel at the period of her writing.

In the beginning of the century, D'Urfé's novels were in vogue; these works were characterized
by interminable developments, relieved by an infinite number of historical episodes. All characters,
shepherds as well as noblemen, expressed the same sentiments and in the same language. There
was no pretension to truth in the portraying of manners and customs.—A reaction was natural
and took the form of either a kind of parody or gross realism. These novels, of which Francion
and Berger Extravagant were the best known, depicted shepherds of the Merovingian times, heroes
of Persia and Rome, or procurers, scamps, and scoundrels; but no descriptions of the manners
of decent people (honnêtes gens) were to be found.

The novels of Mlle. de Scudéry, while interesting as portraitures, are not thoroughly reliable
in their representation of the sentiments and environment of the times; on the other hand,
those of Mme. de La Fayette are impersonal—no one of the characters is recognizable; yet their
atmosphere is that of the court of Louis XIV., and the language, never so correct as to be
unnatural, is that used at the time. Her novels reflect perfectly the society of the court
and the manner of life there. "Thus," says M. d'Haussonville, "she was the first to produce
a novel of observation and sentiment, the first to paint elegant manners as they really were."

Her first production was La Princesse de Montpensier (1662); in 1670, appeared Zayde, it was
ostensibly the work of Segrais, her teacher and a writer much in vogue at the time; in 1678,
La Princesse de Clèves, her masterpiece, stirred up one of the first real quarrels of literary
criticism. For a long time after the appearance of that book, society was divided into two
classes—the pros and the cons. It was the most popular work of the period.

M. d'Haussonville says it is the first French novel which is an illustration of woman's ability
to analyze the most subtile of human emotions. Mme. de La Fayette was, also, the first to elevate,
in literature, the character of the husband who, until then, was a nonentity or a booby; she
makes of him a hero—sympathetic, noble, and dignified.

In no fictitious tale before hers was love depicted with such rare delicacy and pathos. In
her novel, La Princesse de Clèves, "a novel of a married woman, we feel the woman who has loved
and who knows what she is saying, for she, also, has struggled and suffered." The writer confesses
her weakness and leaves us witness of her virtue. All the soul struggles and interior combats
represented in her work the authoress herself has experienced. As an example of this we cite
the description of the sentiments of Mme. de Clèves when she realizes that her feeling toward
one of the members of the court may develop into an emotion unworthy of her as a wife. She
falls upon her knees and says:

"I am here to make to you a confession such as has never been made to man; but the innocence
of my conduct and my intentions give me the necessary courage. It is true that I have reasons
for desiring to withdraw from court, and that I wish to avoid the perils which persons of my
age experience. I have never shown a sign of weakness, and I would not fear of ever showing
any, if you permitted me to withdraw from court, or if I still had, in my efforts to do right,
the support of Mme. de Chartres. However dangerous may be the action I take, I take it with
pleasure, that I may be worthy of your actions, I ask a thousand pardons; if I have sentiments
displeasing to you, I shall at least never displease you by my actions. Remember, to do what
I am doing, one must have for a husband more friendship and esteem than was ever before had.
Have pity on me and lead me away—-and love me still, if you can."

La Princesse de Clèves is a novel of human virtue purely, and teaches that true virtue can
find its reward in itself and in the austere enjoyment of duty accomplished. "It is a work
that will endure, and be a comfort as well as a guide to those who aspire to a high morality
which necessitates a difficult sacrifice."

M. d'Haussonville regards the novels of Mmes. de Charrière, de Souza, de Duras, de Boigne,
as mere imitations or as having been inspired by that masterpiece of Mme. de La Fayette. He
says: "In fact, novels in general, that depict the struggle between passion and duty, with
the victory on the side of virtue, emanate more or less from it."

Taine wrote: "She described the events in the careers of society women, introducing no special
terms of language into her descriptions. She painted for the sake of painting and did not think
of attempting to surpass her predecessors. She reflects a society whose scrupulous care was
to avoid even the slightest appearance of anything that might displease or shock. She shows
the exquisite tact of a woman—and a woman of high rank."

Mme. de La Fayette is one of the very rare French writers that have succeeded in analyzing
love, passion, and moral duty, without becoming monotonous, vulgar, brutal, or excessively
realistic. Her creations contain the most minute analyses of heart and soul emotions, but these
never become purely physiologic and nauseating, as in most novels. This achievement on her
part has been too little imitated, but it, alone, will preserve the name of Mme. de La Fayette.

Mme. de Motteville is deserving of mention among the important literary women of the seventeenth
century. She is regarded as one of the best women writers in French literature, and her memoirs
are considered authority on the history of the Fronde and of Anne of Austria. The poetry of
Mme. des Houlières was for a long time much in vogue; to-day, however, it is not read. The
memoirs of Mlle. de Montpensier are more occupied with herself than with events of the time
or the numerous princes who tarried about her as longing lovers.

Possibly the greatest female scholar that France ever produced was Mme. Dacier, a truly learned
woman and one of whom French women are proud; during her last years she enjoyed the reputation
of being one of the foremost scholars of all Europe. It was Mme. de Lambert who wrote of her:

"I esteem Mme. Dacier infinitely. Our sex owes her much; she has protested against the common
error which condemns us to ignorance. Men, as much from disdain as from a fancied superiority,
have denied us all learning; Mme. Dacier is an example proving that we are capable of learning.
She has associated erudition and good manners; for, at present, modesty has been displaced;
shame is no longer for vices, and women blush over their learning only. She has freed the mind,
held captive under this prejudice, and she alone supports us in our rights."

Tanneguy-Lefèvre, the father of Mme. Dacier, was a savant and a type of the scholars of the
sixteenth century. He brought up his sons to be like him—instructing them in Greek, Latin,
and antiquities. The young daughter, present at all the lessons given to her brothers, acquired,
unaided, a solid education; her father, amazed at her marvellous faculty for comprehending
and remembering, soon devoted most of his energy to her. He was, at that time, professor at
the College of Saumur; and he was conspicuous not only for the liberty he exhibited in his
pedagogical duties, but for his general catholicity.

After the death of her father, the young daughter went to Paris where her family friends, Chapelain
and Huet, encouraged her in her studies, the latter, who was assistant preceptor to the dauphin,
even going so far as to request her to assist him in preparing the Greek text for the use of
the dauphin. She soon eclipsed all scholars of the time by her illuminating studies of Greek
authors and of the quality of the new editions which she prepared of their works, but she was
continually pestered on account of her erudition and her religion, the Protestant faith, to
which she clung while realizing that it had been the cause of the failure of her father's advancement.

From that time appeared her famous series of translations of Terence and Plautus, which were
the delight of the women of the period and which gave her the reputation of being the most
intellectual woman of the seventeenth century. In 1635, when nearly thirty years of age, she
married M. Dacier, the favorite pupil of her father, librarian to the king and translator of
Plutarch—a man of no means, but one who thoroughly appreciated the worth of Mlle. Lefèvre.
This union was spoken of by her contemporaries as "the marriage of Greek and Latin."

Two years after their marriage, after long and serious deliberation, both abjured Protestantism,
adopted the Catholic religion, and succeeded in converting the whole town of Castres—an act
which gained them royal favor, and Louis XIV. granted them a pension of two thousand livres.
Sainte-Beuve states that their conversion was perfectly sincere and conscientious. In all their
subsequent works were seen traces of Mme. Dacier's powerful intellect, which was much superior
to that of her husband. Boileau said: "In their production of esprit, it is Mme. Dacier who
is the father."

Besides her translations of the plays of Plautus, all of Terence, the Clouds and Plutus of
Aristophanes, she published her translation of the Iliad and Odyssey (1711-1716), which gave
her a prominent place in the history of French literature, especially as it appeared at the
time of the "quarrels of the ancients and moderns," which concerned the comparative merits
of ancient and modern literature.

Mme. Dacier thoroughly appreciated the grandeur of Homer and knew the almost insurmountable
difficulties of a translation; therefore, when in 1714 the Iliad appeared in verse (in twelve
songs by La Motte-Houdart), preceded by a discourse on Homer, in which the author announced
that his aim was to purify and embellish Homer by ridding him "of his barbarian crudeness,
his uncivil familiarities, and his great length," the ire of Mme. Dacier was aroused, and in
defence of her god she wrote her famous Des Causes de la Corruption du Goût (Causes of the
Corruption of Taste), a long defence of Homer, to which La Motte replied in his Réflexions
de la Critique This rekindled the whole controversy, and sides were immediately formed.

Mme. Dacier was not politic; although she sustained her ideas well and displayed much erudition
and depth of reason, she is said to have injured her cause by the violence of her polemic.
Her immoderate tone and bitter assaults upon the elegant and discerning favorite only detracted
from his opponent's favor and grace. Voltaire said: "You could say that the work of M. de La
Motte was that of a woman of esprit, while that of Mme. Dacier was of a homme savant. He translated
the Iliad very poorly, but attacked very well." Mme. Dacier's translation remained a standard
for two centuries. She and her adversary became reconciled at a dinner given by M. de Valincour
for the friends of both parties; upon that festive occasion, "they drank to the health of Homer,
and all was well."

Mme. Dacier died in 1720. "She was a savante only in her study or when with savants; otherwise,
she was unaffected and agreeable in conversation, from the character of which one would never
have suspected her of knowing more than the average woman." She was an incessant worker and
had little time for social life; in the evening, after having worked all morning, she received
visits from the literary men of France; and, to her credit may it be added, amid all her literary
work, she never neglected her domestic and maternal duties.

A woman of an entirely different type from that of Mme. Dacier, one who fitly closes the long
series of great and brilliant women of the age of Louis XIV., who only partly resembles them
and yet does not quite take on the faded and decadent coloring of the next age, was Mme. de
Caylus, the niece of Mme. de Maintenon. It was she who, partly through compulsion, partly of
her own free will, undertook the rearing of the young and beautiful Marthe-Marguerite de Villette.
Mme. de Maintenon was then at the height of her power, and naturally her beautiful, clever,
and witty niece was soon overwhelmed by proposals of marriage from the greatest nobles of France.
To one of these, M. de Boufflers, Mme. de Maintenon replied: "My niece is not a sufficiently
good match for you. However, I am not insensible to the honor you pay me; I shall not give
her to you, but in the future I shall consider you my nephew."

She then married the innocent young girl to the Marquis de Caylus, a debauched, worthless reprobate—a
union whose only merit lay in the fact that her niece could thus remain near her at court.
At the latter place, her beauty, gayety, and caustic wit, her adaptable and somewhat superficial
character and her freedom of manners and speech, did not fail to attract many admirers. Her
frankness in expressing her opinions was the source of her disgrace; Louis XIV. took her at
her word when she exclaimed, in speaking of the court: "This place is so dull that it is like
being in exile to live here," and forbade her to appear again in the place she found so tiresome.
Those rash words cost her an exile of thirteen years, and only through good behavior, submission,
and piety was she permitted to return.

She appeared at a supper given by the king, and, by the brilliancy of her beauty and esprit,
she attracted everyone present and soon regained her former favor and friends. From that time
she was the constant companion of Mme. de Maintenon, until the king's death, when she returned
to Paris; at that place her salon became an intellectual centre, and there the traditions of
the seventeenth century were perpetuated.

Sainte-Beuve said that Mme. de Caylus perfectly exemplified what was called urbanity—"politeness
in speech and accent as well as in esprit." In her youth she was famous for her extraordinary
acting in the performance, at Saint-Cyr, of Racine's Esther. Mme. de Sévigné wrote: "It is
Mme. de Caylus who makes Esther." Her brief and witty Souvenirs (Memoirs), showing marvellous
finesse in the art of portraiture, made her name immortal. M. Saint-Amand describes her work thus:

"Her friends, enchanted by her lively wit, had long entreated her to write—not for the public,
but for them—the anecdotes which she related so well. Finally, she acquiesced, and committed
to paper certain incidents, certain portraits. What a treasure are these Souvenirs—so fluently
written, so unpretentious, with neither dates nor chronological order, but upon which, for
more than a century, all historians have drawn! How much is contained in this little book which
teaches more in a few lines than interminable works do in many volumes! How feminine it is,
and how French! One readily understands Voltaire's liking for these charming Souvenirs. Who,
than Mme. de Caylus, ever better applied the famous precept: 'Go lightly, mortals; don't bear
too hard.'"

She belonged to that class of spontaneous writers who produce artistic works without knowing
it, just as M. Jourdain wrote prose, and who do not even suspect that they possess that chief
attribute of literary style—naturalness. What pure, what ready wit! What good humor, what unconstraint,
what delightful ease! What a series of charming portraits, each more lifelike, more animated,
still better than all the others! "These little miniatures—due to the brush of a woman of the
world—are better worth studying than is many a picture or fresco."

Chapter VII

Woman in Religion

The entire religious agitation of the seventeenth century was due to women. Port-Royal was
the centre from which issued all contention—the centre where all subjects were discussed, where
the most important books were written or inspired, where the genius of that great century centred;
and it was to Port-Royal that the greatest women of France went, either to find repose for
their souls or to visit the noble members of their sex who had consecrated their lives to God—Mère
Angélique, Jacqueline Pascal. Never in the history of the world had a religious sect or party
gathered within its fold such an array of great minds, such a number of fearless and determined
heroines and esprits d'élite. A short account of this famous convent must precede any story
of its members.

The original convent, Port-Royal des Champs, near Versailles, was founded as early as 1204,
by Mathieu of Montmorency and his wife, for the Cistercian nuns who had the privileges of electing
their abbess and of receiving into their community ladies who, tired of the social world, wished
to retire to a religious asylum, without, however, being bound by any religious vows. Later
on, the sisters were permitted to receive, also, young ladies of the nobility.

These privileges were used to such advantage that the institution acquired great wealth; and
through its boarders, some of whom belonged to the most important families of France, it became
influential to an almost incalculable degree. For four centuries this convent had been developing
liberal tendencies and gradually falling away from its primitive austerity, when, in 1605,
Sister Angélique Arnauld became abbess and undertook a thorough reform. So great was her success
in this direction that, after having effected similar changes at the Convent of Maubuisson
and then returned to Port-Royal des Champs, the latter became so crowded that new and more
commodious quarters had to be obtained.

The immense and beautiful Hôtel de Cluny, at Paris, was procured, and a portion of the community
moved thither, establishing an institution which became the best known and most popular of
those French convents which were patronized by women of distinction. The old abbey buildings
near Versailles were later occupied by a community of learned and pious men who were, for the
most part, pupils of the celebrated Abbé of Saint-Cyran, who, with Jansenius, was living at
Paris at the time that Mère Angélique was perfecting her reforms; she, attracted by the ascetic
life led by the abbé, fell under his influence, and the whole Arnauld family, numbering about
thirty, followed her example.

Soon "the nuns at Paris, with their numerous and powerful connections, and the recluses at
Port-Royal des Champs, together with their pupils and the noble or wealthy families to which
the latter belonged, were imbued with the new doctrines of which they became apostles." The
primary aim was to live up to a common ideal of Christian perfection, and to react against
the general corruption by establishing thoroughly moral schools and publishing works denouncing,
in strong terms, the glaring errors of the time, the source of which was considered, by both
the Abbé of Saint-Cyran and Jansenius, to lie in the Jesuit Colleges and their theology. Thus
was evolved a system of education in every way antagonistic to that of the Jesuits.

At this time the convent at Paris became so crowded that Mère Angélique withdrew to the abbey
near Versailles, the occupants of which retired to a neighboring farm, Les Granges; there was
opened a seminary for females, which soon attracted the daughters of the nobility. An astounding
literary and agricultural activity resulted, both at the abode of the recluses and at the seminary:
by the recluses were written the famous Greek and Latin grammars, and by the nuns, the famous
Memoirs of the History of Port-Royal and the Image of the Perfect and Imperfect Sister; a model
farm was cultivated, and here the peasants were taught improved methods of tillage. During
the time of the civil wars the convent became a resort where charity and hospitality were extended
to the poor peasants.

"The mode of life at Port-Royal was distinguished for austerity. The inmates rose at three
o'clock in the morning, and, after the common prayer, kissed the ground as a sign of their
self-humiliation before God. Then, kneeling, they read a chapter from the Gospels and one from
the Epistles, concluding with another prayer. Two hours in the morning and a like number in
the afternoon were devoted to manual labor in the gardens adjoining the convent; they observed,
with great strictness, the season of Lent." Their theories and practices, and especially their
sympathy with Jansenius, whose work Mars Gallicus attacked the French government and people,
aroused the suspicions of Richelieu. When in 1640 the Port-Royalists openly and enthusiastically
received the famous work, Augustinus, of Jansenius, the government became the declared opponent
of the convent. Saint-Cyran had been imprisoned in 1638, and not until after the death of Richelieu,
in 1642, was he liberated. After the appearance, in 1643, of Arnauld's De la Fréquente Communion,
in which he attacked the Jesuits for admitting the people to the Lord's Supper without due
preparation, two parties formed—the Jesuits, supported by the Sorbonne and the government,
and the Port-Royalists, supported by Parliament and illustrious persons, such as Mme. de Longueville.

In 1644, the nuns were dispersed by order of Louis XIV., against whose despotic caprices two
Jansenist bishops had fought in support of the rights of the pope. The Paris convent remained
closed until 1669, when it and the one at Chevreuse, near Versailles were made independent
of each other, a proceeding which resulted in the two institutions becoming opponents. In 1708
the Convent of Port-Royal des Champs was suppressed, and, a year later, the beautiful and once
prosperous community was destroyed, the buildings being levelled to the ground. In 1780 the
Paris convent was abolished; five years later the structure was converted into a hospital,
and in 1814 it became the lying-in asylum of La Maternité.

In those two convents, which were practically one, was fomented and developed the entire religious
movement of the seventeenth century, to which period belong the general study and development
of theology, metaphysics, and morality.

Port-Royal may have been the cause of the civil war waged by the Frondists against the government.
It did bring on the struggle between the Jesuits, who were all-powerful in the Church, and
the Jansenists. The latter denied the doctrine of free will, and taught the absolutism of religion,
the "terrible God," the powerlessness of kings and princes before God—a doctrine which brought
down upon them the wrath of Louis XIV., for whom their notion of virtue was too severe, their
use of the Gospel too excessive, and their Christianity impossible.

In its purest form, Port-Royalism was a return to the sanctity of the primitive church—an attempt
at the use, in French, of the whole body of Scriptures and the writings of the Church Fathers;
it aimed to maintain a vigorous religious reaction in the shape of a reform, and that reform
was vigorously opposed by the Catholic Church.

One family that is associated with Port-Royal gave to its cause no less than six sisters; the
latter all belonged to the Convent of Port-Royal and were attached to the Jansenist party;
of them, the Archbishop of Paris said that they were "as pure as angels, but as proud as devils."
They were related to the one great Arnauld family, of which Antoine and his three sons—Robert,
Henri, and the younger Antoine, called "the great Antoine"—were illustrious champions of Port-Royal.

Marie Jacqueline Angélique, the oldest among the three abbesses, was born in 1591, and, at
the early age of fourteen, was made abbess of Port-Royal des Champs; it was she who, after
having instituted successful reforms at Port-Royal, was sent to reform the system of the Abbey
of Maubuisson, thus initiating the important movement which later involved almost all France.
She became convinced that she had not been lawfully elected abbess and resigned, securing,
however, a provision which made the election of abbesses a triennial event. To her belongs
the honor of having made Port-Royal anew. She was a woman capable of every sacrifice,—a wonderful
type in which were blended candor, pride, and submission,—and she exhibited indomitable strength
of will and earnest zeal for her cause.

Her sister, Agnes, but three years younger than Marie, also entered the convent, and, at the
age of fifteen, was made mistress of the novices; during the absence of her sister, at Maubuisson,
she was at the head of the convent; from that time, she governed Port-Royal alternately with
her sister, for twenty-seven years. Her work, The Secret Chapter of the Sacrament, was suppressed
at Rome, but without bringing formal censure upon her.

The last of those great abbesses was Mère Angélique, who lived through the most troublous and
critical times of Port-Royal (1624 to 1684). At the age of twenty she became a nun, having
been reared in the convent by her aunt, Marie, who was the most perfect disciple of Saint-Cyran.
Mère Angélique was especially conspicuous for her obstinacy, and when the nuns were forced
to accept the formulary of Pope Alexander VI., she, alone, was excepted, because of that well
known characteristic. Upon the reopening of Port-Royal (in 1689), her powerful protectress,
Mme. de Longueville, died and the persecutions were renewed; Mère Angélique endeavored to avert
the storm, but all in vain; amidst her efforts, she collapsed. She was also a writer, her Memoirs
of the History of Port Royal being the most valuable history of that institution.

Thus, about those three women is formed the religious movement which involved both the development
of religious liberty, free will, and morality, and of the philosophical literature of the century—a
century which boasts such writers and theologians as Nicole, Pascal, Racine, etc.

The mission of Port-Royal seems to have been preparation of souls for the struggles of life,
teaching how to resist oppression or to bear it with courage, and how, for a righteous cause,
to brave everything, not only the persecutions of power—violence, prison, exile,—but the ruses
of hypocrisy and the calumny of opposing opinion. The Port-Royalist nun combated and taught
how to combat; she lacked humility, but possessed an abundance of courage which often bordered
upon passion.

One of the most pathetic and striking illustrations of the fervent devotion which was a characteristic
product of Port-Royal, is supplied by Jacqueline Pascal, sister of the great Blaise Pascal.
Young, spirituelle, very much sought after and the idol of brilliant companions, at the age
of twenty-six she abandoned the world to devote herself to God. At thirty-six years of age
she died of sorrow and remorse for having signed an equivocal formulary of Pope Alexander VI.,
"through pure deference to the authority of her superiors." The papal decision concerning Jansenius's
book, already mentioned, was drawn up in a formula "turned with some skill, and in such a way
that subscription did not bind the conscience; however, the nuns of Port-Royal refused to sign."
According to Mme. Périer, the health of the writer of the above epistle was so undermined by
the shock which all that commotion had caused her, that she became dangerously ill, dying soon
after. Thus was sacrificed the first victim of the formulary.

Cousin says that few women of the seventeenth century were as brilliantly endowed as Jacqueline
Pascal; possessing the finesse, energy, and sobriety of her brother, she was capable of the
most serious work, and yet knew perfectly how to lead in a social circle. Also, she was most
happily gifted with a talent for poetry, in relation to which her reputation was everywhere
recognized; at the convent, she consulted her superiors as to the advisability of continuing
her verse making; and upon being told that such occupation was not a means of winning the grace
of Jesus Christ, she abandoned it.

Cousin maintained that the avowed principle of the Port-Royalists was the withdrawal from all
worldly pleasure and attachment. "'Marriage is a homicide; absolute renunciation is the true
régime of a Christian.' Jacqueline Pascal is an exaggeration of Port-Royal, and Port-Royal
is an exaggeration of the religious spirit of the seventeenth century. Man is too little considered;
all movement of the physical world comes from God; all our acts and thoughts, except those
of crime and error, come from and belong to Him. Nothing is our own; there is no free will;
will and reason have no power. The theory of grace is the source of all truth, virtue, and
merit—and for this doctrine Jacqueline Pascal gives up her life."

Among the great spirits of Port-Royal, the women especially were strong in their convictions
and high in their ideals. They naturally followed the ideas of man and naturally fell into
religious errors; but their firmness, constancy, and heroism were striking indeed. Their aspiration
was the imitation of Christ, and they approached their model as near as ever was done by man.
In an age of courtesans, when convictions were subservient to the pleasure of power, they set
a worthy example of strength of mind, firmness of will, purity, and womanliness. M. du Bled says:

"Port-Royal was the enterprise of the middle-class aristocracy of France; you can see here
an anticipated attempt of a sort of superior third estate to govern for itself in the Church
and to establish a religion not Roman, not aristocratic and of the court, not devout in the
manner of the simple people, but freer from vain images and ceremonies, and freer, also, as
to the temporal in the face of worldly authority—a sober, austere, independent religion which
would have truly founded a Gallican reform. The illusion was in thinking that they could continue
to exist in Rome—that Richelieu and Louis XIV. would tolerate the boldness of this attempt."

A celebrated woman of the seventeenth century, one who really belongs to the circle of Mme.
de Longueville and Mme. de La Fayette, but who early in life, like Mme. de Longueville, devoted
herself to religion and retired to live at Port-Royal, and is therefore more intimately associated
with the religious movement, was Mme. de Sablé, a type of the social-religious woman.

Mme. de Sablé is a heroine of Cousin, whom we closely follow in this account of her career.
According to that writer, she is a type of the purely social woman, a woman who did less for
herself than for others, in aiding whom she took delight, a woman who was the inspiration of
many writers and many works.

Mlle. de Souvré married the wealthy Marquis of Sablé, of the house of Montmorency, of whom
little is known. He soon abandoned her; and she, most unhappy over unworthy rivals, fell very
ill, retired from society for a time, and then reappeared; her career as a society woman then
began. At an early age, by force of her decided taste for the high form of Spanish gallantry,
then so much in vogue, and her inclination to all things intellectual, she became one of the
leaders of the Hôtel de Rambouillet. She, Mmes. de Sévigné, de Longueville, and de La Fayette
formed that circle of women who idealized friendship.

Within a few years she lost her father, husband, two of her brothers, and her second son; and
after putting her financial affairs into order, she and her friend, the Countess of Maure,
took up their quarters at the famous Place Royale; there they decided to devote their lives
to letters, and there assembled their friends, men and women, regardless of rank or party,
personal merit being the only means of access. Mmes. de Sablé and de Rambouillet were called
the arbiters of elegance and good taste.

To her friends, Mme. de Sablé was always accommodating and showed no partiality; well informed,
she was constantly approached for counsel and favors; discreet and trustworthy, the most important
secrets were intrusted to her—a confidence which she never betrayed. During the Fronde she
remained faithful to the queen and Mazarin, but did not become estranged from her friends,
so many of whom were Frondists, and who chose her as their counsellor, arbitrator, and pacifier.

About 1655 she began to realize her unsettled position in the world and to long for a place
where she might, modestly and becomingly, spend her declining years. She was then fifty-five
years of age. The ideas of Jansenism had so impressed the great people of the day, that she
decided to retire to Port-Royal, to end her days with sympathizers of the spiritual life around
her and her former friends whenever she desired them.

At her apartments, not only were religious and literary affairs discussed, but the most delicate
and delicious dishes were prepared and elixirs and remedies for disease compounded. Famous
people were led to seek her, through her reputation and influence, and through friendship,
for she seldom left her house. Mme. de Sablé possessed all the qualities that attract and hold,
nothing extraordinary or rare, but abundant politeness and elegance.

It was not long before she began to withdraw from even her friends, still continuing, however,
her fine cuisine, the remarkable care of her health, and her medical experiments. Her dinners
became celebrated, and invitations to them were much in demand; about them there were no signs
of opulence, but her gatherings were distinguished for refinement and taste. Her friends were
constantly asking her for her recipes, of the preparation of which no one but herself knew
the secret.

At the salon of Mme. de Sablé originated many famous literary works, such as the Conférences
sur le Calvinisme, works on Cartesian philosophy, the Logique de Port-Royal, Questions sur
l'Amour, Les Maximes, etc. She will be remembered as the initiator of many maxims, in the composition
of which she excelled. A number of her sayings concerning friendship have been preserved. Two
treatises, in the form of maxims, on the education of children and on friendship, respectively,
are supposed to have come from her pen; from them La Rochefoucauld conceived the ideas he utilized
in his famous Maxims.

La Rochefoucauld's maxims were composed according to the chance of conversation, which gave
rise to various subjects and led to his serious reflection upon them. Cousin even goes so far
as to say that the Pensées of Pascal would never have been published in that form had not the
Maxims enjoyed such favor. Pascal often visited Port-Royal and naturally followed the general
reflective tendency of its society. His Discours sur les Passions de l'Amour possibly originated
at the salon of Mme. de Sablé, because the subject of which that work treated was one much
discussed there. La Rochefoucauld was in the habit of sending his maxims to Mme. de Sablé with
the message: "As you do nothing for nothing, I ask of you a carrot soup or mutton stew."

When La Rochefoucauld entered the society of Mme. de Sablé, he had seen much of life, was familiar
with most of the adventures and intrigues of the Fronde and the society of the time; he himself
had acted his part in all, and at the age of fifty was ready to put his experience into a permanent
form of reflection. His Maxims created a stir, through the clearness and elegance of their
character, their fine analyses of man as he was in the seventeenth century, and through their
truthfulness and general applicability to men of every country. From all the illustrious women
of the day, either he or Mme. de Sablé received letters of criticism or suggestion—eulogies
and condemnations of which he took notice in his next edition. This shows the intense interest
felt in the appearance of any new literary production.

Cousin says that the whole literature of maxims and reflections issued directly from the salon
of a kind and good woman who had retired to a convent with no other desire than to live over
her life, to recall her past and what she had seen and felt therein; and upon her society,
that woman impressed her own tastes, elegance, and seriousness. Her great act of benevolence
was her protection of Port-Royal. When, after the death in 1661 of Mother Angélique Arnauld,
that institution became the object of persecution and its tenants were either imprisoned or
compelled to seek refuge in the various families of Paris, Mme. de Sablé remained faithful
to its principles; she lived with her friends, Mme. de Longueville and Mme. de Montausier,
until 1669, when, with the coöperation of Mme. de Longueville, who exerted all her influence
for Port-Royal, she finally succeeded in bringing about its reopening. At least, Cousin ascribes
this result to Mme. de Sablé, but he may have somewhat exaggerated her influence in this respect.
From her retreat at Port-Royal, she kept up a constant correspondence with her friends all
over France; she lived there until 1678, with but one intimate friend, Mme. de Longueville.

Mme. de Sablé had remarkable gifts; her mission in politics, religion, and literature seems
to have been to excite to action, to stimulate and to bring out to its fullest value, the talents
and genius of others. In her modest salon, she inspired the great and illustrious work which
will keep her memory alive as long as the Maxims and Pensées are read. Her name will be connected
with that of Mme. de Longueville, because of their ideal friendship, and with that of Port-Royal
because of her ardent and self-sacrificing support of it in the time of its direst persecution,
when any exhibition of sympathy was dangerous in the extreme; and finally, her name will always
be connected with that small circle of French society of the seventeenth century, which was
noble, moral, and elevating to an unusual degree.

