THE INTERPRETERS OF GENESIS AND THE INTERPRETERS OF NATURE

ESSAY #4 FROM "SCIENCE AND HEBREW TRADITION"

By Thomas Henry Huxley

Our fabulist warns "those who in quarrels interpose" of the fate which is probably in store
for them; and, in venturing to place myself between so powerful a controversialist as Mr. Gladstone
and the eminent divine whom he assaults with such vigour in the last number of this Review,
[1] I am fully aware that I run great danger of verifying Gay's prediction. Moreover, it is
quite possible that my zeal in offering aid to a combatant so extremely well able to take care
of himself as M. Reville may be thought to savour of indiscretion.

Two considerations, however, have led me to face the double risk. The one is that though, in
my judgment, M. Reville is wholly in the right in that part of the controversy to which I propose
to restrict my observations, nevertheless he, as a foreigner, has very little chance of making
the truth prevail with Englishmen against the authority and the dialectic skill of the greatest
master of persuasive rhetoric among English-speaking men of our time. As the Queen's proctor
intervenes, in certain cases, between two litigants in the interests of justice, so it may
be permitted me to interpose as a sort of uncommissioned science proctor. My second excuse
for my meddlesomeness is, that important questions of natural science--respecting which neither
of the combatants professes to speak as an expert--are involved in the controversy; and I think
it is desirable that the public should know what it is that natural science really has to say
on these topics, to the best belief of one who has been a diligent student of natural science
for the last forty years.

The original "Prolegomenes de l'Histoire des Religions" has not come in my way; but I have
read the translation of M. Reville's work, published in England under the auspices of Professor
Max Muller, with very great interest. It puts more fairly and clearly than any book previously
known to me, the view which a man of strong religious feelings, but at the same time possessing
the information and the reasoning power which enable him to estimate the strength of scientific
methods of inquiry and the weight of scientific truth, may be expected to take of the relation
between science and religion.

In the chapter on "The Primitive Revelation" the scientific worth of the account of the Creation
given in the book of Genesis is estimated in terms which are as unquestionably respectful as,
in my judgment, they are just; and, at the end of the chapter on "Primitive Tradition," M.
Reville appraises the value of pentateuchal anthropology in a way which I should have thought
sure of enlisting the assent of all competent judges, even if it were extended to the whole
of the cosmogony and biology of Genesis:--

   As, however, the original traditions of nations sprang up in an
   epoch less remote than our own from the primitive life, it is
   indispensable to consult them, to compare them, and to associate
   them with other sources of information which are available.
   From this point of view, the traditions recorded in Genesis
   possess, in addition to their own peculiar charm, a value of the
   highest order; but we cannot ultimately see in them more than a
   venerable fragment, well-deserving attention, of the great
   genesis of mankind.

Mr. Gladstone is of a different mind. He dissents from M. Reville's views respecting the proper
estimation of the pentateuchal traditions, no less than he does from his interpretation of
those Homeric myths which have been the object of his own special study. In the latter case,
Mr. Gladstone tells M. Reville that he is wrong on his own authority, to which, in such a matter,
all will pay due respect: in the former, he affirms himself to be "wholly destitute of that
kind of knowledge which carries authority," and his rebuke is administered in the name and
by the authority of natural science. (p. 696).

"Understood?" By whom? I cannot bring myself to imagine that Mr. Gladstone has made so solemn
and authoritative a statement on a matter of this importance without due inquiry--without being
able to found himself upon recognised scientific authority. But I wish he had thought fit to
name the source from whence he has derived his information, as, in that case, I could have
dealt with [143] his authority, and I should have thereby escaped the appearance of making
an attack on Mr. Gladstone himself, which is in every way distasteful to me.

Perhaps I may be told that Mr. Gladstone does give his authority--that he cites Cuvier, Sir
John Herschel, and Dr. Whewell in support of his case. If that has been Mr. Gladstone's intention
in mentioning these eminent names, I may remark that, on this particular question, the only
relevant authority is that of Cuvier. But great as Cuvier was, it is to be remembered that,
as Mr. Gladstone incidentally remarks, he cannot now be called a recent authority. In fact,
he has been dead more than half a century; and the palaeontology of our day is related to that
of his, very much as the geography of the sixteenth century is related to that of the fourteenth.
Since 1832, when Cuvier died, not only a new world, but new worlds, of ancient life have been
discovered; and those who have most faithfully carried on the work of the chief founder of
palaeontology have done most to invalidate the essentially negative grounds of his speculative
adherence to tradition.

If Mr. Gladstone's latest information on these matters is derived from the famous discourse
prefixed to the "Ossemens Fossiles," I can understand the position he has taken up; if he has
ever opened a respectable modern manual of palaeontology, or geology, I cannot. For the facts
which demolish his whole argument are of the commonest notoriety. But before proceeding to
consider the evidence for this assertion we must be clear about the meaning of the phraseology
employed. And I presume that it will be agreed that whales and porpoises, sea fishes, and the
innumerable hosts of marine invertebrated animals, are meant thereby. So "air-population" must
be the equivalent of "fowl" in verse 20, and "every winged fowl after its kind," verse 21.
I suppose I may take it for granted that by "fowl" we have here to understand birds--at any
rate primarily. Secondarily, it may be that the bats and the extinct pterodactyles, which were
flying reptiles, come under the same head. But whether all insects are "creeping things" of
the land-population, or whether flying insects are to be included under the denomination of
"winged fowl," is a point for the decision of Hebrew exegetes. Lastly, I suppose I may assume
that "land-population" signifies "the cattle" and "the beasts of the earth," and "every creeping
thing that creepeth upon the earth," in verses 25 and 26; presumably it comprehends all kinds
of terrestrial animals, vertebrate and invertebrate, except such as may be comprised under
the head of the "air-population."

Now what I want to make clear is this: that if the terms "water-population," "air-population,"
and "land-population" are understood in the senses here defined, natural science has nothing
to say in favour of the proposition that they succeeded one another in the order given by Mr.
Gladstone; but that, on the contrary, all the evidence we possess goes to prove that they did
not. Whence it will follow that, if Mr. Gladstone has interpreted Genesis rightly (on which
point I am most anxious to be understood to offer no opinion), that interpretation is wholly
irreconcilable with the conclusions at present accepted by the interpreters of nature--with
everything that can be called "a demonstrated conclusion and established fact" of natural science.
And be it observed that I am not here dealing with a question of speculation, but with a question
of fact.

Either the geological record is sufficiently complete to afford us a means of determining the
order in which animals have made their appearance on the globe or it is not. If it is, the
determination of that order is little more than a mere matter of observation; if it is not,
then natural science neither affirms nor refutes the "fourfold order," but is simply silent.

The series of the fossiliferous deposits, which contain the remains of the animals which have
lived on the earth in past ages of its history, and which can alone afford the evidence required
by natural science of the order of appearance of their different species, may be grouped in
the manner shown in the left-hand column of the following table, the oldest being at the bottom:--

     Formations          First known appearance of
     Quaternary.
     Pliocene.
     Miocene.
     Eocene.             Vertebrate air-population (Bats).
     Cretaceous.
     Jurassic.           Vertebrate air-population (Birds and
                         Pterodactyles).
     Triassic.
     Upper Palaeozoic.
     Middle Palaeozoic.  Vertebrate land-population (Amphibia,
                         Reptilia [?]).
     Lower Palaeozoic.
       Silurian.         Vertebrate water-population (Fishes).
                         Invertebrate air and land-
                         population (Flying Insects and Scorpions).
       Cambrian.         Invertebrate water-population (much
                         earlier, if Eozoon is animal).

In the right-hand column I have noted the group of strata in which, according to our present
information, the land, air, and water populations respectively appear for the first time; and
in consequence of the ambiguity about the meaning of "fowl," I have separately indicated the
first appearance of bats, birds, flying reptiles, and flying insects. It will be observed that,
if "fowl" means only "bird," or at most flying vertebrate, then the first certain evidence
of the latter, in the Jurassic epoch, is posterior to the first appearance of truly terrestrial
Amphibia, and possibly of true reptiles, in the Carboniferous epoch (Middle Palaeozoic) by
a prodigious interval of time.

The water-population of vertebrated animals first appears in the Upper Silurian. [2] Therefore,
if we found ourselves on vertebrated animals and take "fowl" to mean birds only, or, at most,
flying vertebrates, natural science says that the order of succession was water, land, and
air-population, and not--as Mr. Gladstone, founding himself on Genesis, says--water, air, land-population.
If a chronicler of Greece affirmed that the age of Alexander preceded that of Pericles and
immediately succeeded that of the Trojan war, Mr. Gladstone would hardly say that this order
is "understood to have been so affirmed by historical science that it may be taken as a demonstrated
conclusion and established fact." Yet natural science "affirms" his "fourfold order" to exactly
the same extent--neither more nor less.

Suppose, however, that "fowl" is to be taken to include flying insects. In that case, the first
appearance of an air-population must be shifted back for long ages, recent discovery having
shown that they occur in rocks of Silurian age. Hence there might still have been hope for
the fourfold order, were it not that the fates unkindly determined that scorpions--"creeping
things that creep on the earth" par excellence--turned up in Silurian strata nearly at the
same time. So that, if the word in the original Hebrew translated "fowl" should really after
all mean "cockroach"--and I have great faith in the elasticity of that tongue in the hands
of Biblical exegetes--the order primarily suggested by the existing evidence--

     2. Land and air-population;
     1. Water-population;

and Mr. Gladstone's order--

     3. Land-population;
     2. Air-population;
     1. Water-population;

can by no means be made to coincide. As a matter of fact, then, the statement so confidently
put forward turns out to be devoid of foundation and in direct contradiction of the evidence
at present at our disposal. [3]

If, stepping beyond that which may be learned from the facts of the successive appearance of
the forms of animal life upon the surface of the globe, in so far as they are yet made known
to us by natural science, we apply our reasoning faculties to the task of finding out what
those observed facts mean, the present conclusions of the interpreters of nature appear to
be no less directly in conflict with those of the latest interpreter of Genesis.

Mr. Gladstone appears to admit that there is some truth in the doctrine of evolution, and indeed
places it under very high patronage.

     I contend that evolution in its highest form has not been a
     thing heretofore unknown to history, to philosophy, or to
     theology. I contend that it was before the mind of Saint Paul
     when he taught that in the fulness of time God sent forth His
     Son, and of Eusebius when he wrote the "Preparation for the
     Gospel," and of Augustine when he composed the "City of God"
     (p. 706).

Has any one ever disputed the contention, thus solemnly enunciated, that the doctrine of evolution
was not invented the day before yesterday? Has any one ever dreamed of claiming it as a modern
innovation? Is there any one so ignorant of the history of philosophy as to be unaware that
it is one of the forms in which speculation embodied itself long before the time either of
the Bishop of Hippo or of the Apostle to the Gentiles? Is Mr. Gladstone, of all people in the
world, disposed to ignore the founders of Greek philosophy, to say nothing of Indian sages
to whom evolution was a familiar notion ages before Paul of Tarsus was born? But it is ungrateful
to cavil at even the most oblique admission of the possible value of one of those affirmations
of natural science which really may be said to be "a demonstrated conclusion and established
fact." I note it with pleasure, if only for the purpose of introducing the observation that,
if there is any truth whatever in the doctrine of evolution as applied to animals, Mr. Gladstone's
gloss on Genesis in the following passage is hardly happy:--

   God created
   (a) The water-population;
   (b) The air-population.

   And they receive His benediction (v. 20-23).

   6. Pursuing this regular progression from the lower to the
   higher, from the simple to the complex, the text now gives us
   the work of the sixth "day," which supplies the land-population,
   air and water having been already supplied (pp. 695, 696).

The gloss to which I refer is the assumption that the "air-population" forms a term in the
order of progression from lower to higher, from simple to complex--the place of which lies
between the water-population below and the land-population above--and I speak of it as a "gloss,"
because the pentateuchal writer is nowise responsible for it.

But it is not true that the air-population, as a whole, is "lower" or less "complex" than the
land-population. On the contrary, every beginner in the study of animal morphology is aware
that the organisation of a bat, of a bird, or of a pterodactyle presupposes that of a terrestrial
quadruped; and that it is intelligible only as an extreme modification of the organisation
of a terrestrial mammal or reptile. In the same way winged insects (if they are to be counted
among the "air-population") presuppose insects which were wingless, and, therefore, as "creeping
things," were part of the land-population. Thus theory is as much opposed as observation to
the admission that natural science endorses the succession of animal life which Mr. Gladstone
finds in Genesis. On the contrary, a good many representatives of natural science would be
prepared to say, on theoretical grounds alone, that it is incredible that the "air-population"
should have appeared before the "land-population"--and that, if this assertion is to be found
in Genesis, it merely demonstrates the scientific worthlessness of the story of which it forms
a part.

Indeed, we may go further. It is not even admissible to say that the water-population, as a
whole, appeared before the air and the land-populations. According to the Authorised Version,
Genesis especially mentions, among the animals created on the fifth day, "great whales," in
place of which the Revised Version reads "great sea monsters." Far be it from me to give an
opinion which rendering is right, or whether either is right. All I desire to remark is, that
if whales and porpoises, dugongs and manatees, are to be regarded as members of the water-population
(and if they are not, what animals can claim the designation?), then that much of the water-population
has, as certainly, originated later than the land-population as bats and birds have. For I
am not aware that any competent judge would hesitate to admit that the organisation of these
animals shows the most obvious signs of their descent from terrestrial quadrupeds.

A similar criticism applies to Mr. Gladstone's assumption that, as the fourth act of that "orderly
succession of times" enunciated in Genesis, "the land-population consummated in man."

If this means simply that man is the final term in the evolutional series of which he forms
a part, I do not suppose that any objection will be raised to that statement on the part of
students of natural science. But if the pentateuchal author goes further than this, and intends
to say that which is ascribed to him by Mr. Gladstone, I think natural science will have to
enter a caveat. It is not by any means certain that man--I mean the species Homo sapiens of
zoological terminology--has "consummated" the land-population in the sense of appearing at
a later period of time than any other. Let me make my meaning clear by an example. From a morphological
point of view, our beautiful and useful contemporary--I might almost call him colleague--the
horse (Equus caballus), is the last term of the evolutional series to which he belongs, just
as Homo sapiens is the last term of the series of which he is a member. If I want to know whether
the species Equus caballus made its appearance on the surface of the globe before or after
Homo sapiens, deduction from known laws does not help me. There is no reason, that I know of,
why one should have appeared sooner or later than the other. If I turn to observation, I find
abundant remains of Equus caballus in Quaternary strata, perhaps a little earlier. The existence
of Homo sapiens in the Quaternary epoch is also certain. Evidence has been adduced in favour
of man's existence in the Pliocene, or even in the Miocene epoch. It does not satisfy me; but
I have no reason to doubt that the fact may be so, nevertheless. Indeed, I think it is quite
possible that further research will show that Homo sapiens existed, not only before Equus caballus,
but before many other of the existing forms of animal life; so that, if all the species of
animals have been separately created, man, in this case, would by no means be the "consummation"
of the land-population.

I am raising no objection to the position of the fourth term in Mr. Gladstone's "order"--on
the facts, as they stand, it is quite open to any one to hold, as a pious opinion, that the
fabrication of man was the acme and final achievement of the process of peopling the globe.
But it must not be said that natural science counts this opinion among her "demonstrated conclusions
and established facts," for there would be just as much, or as little, reason for ranging the
contrary opinion among them.

It may seem superfluous to add to the evidence that Mr. Gladstone has been utterly misled in
supposing that his interpretation of Genesis receives any support from natural science. But
it is as well to do one's work thoroughly while one is about it; and I think it may be advisable
to point out that the facts, as they are at present known, not only refute Mr. Gladstone's
interpretation of Genesis in detail, but are opposed to the central idea on which it appears
to be based.

There must be some position from which the reconcilers of science and Genesis will not retreat,
some central idea the maintenance of which is vital and its refutation fatal.

This statement appears to me to be the interpretation of Genesis which Mr. Gladstone supports,
reduced to its simplest expression. "Period of time" is substituted for "day"; "originated"
is substituted for "created"; and "any order required" for that adopted by Mr. Gladstone. It
is necessary to make this proviso, for if "day" may mean a few million years, and "creation"
may mean evolution, then it is obvious that the order (1) water-population, (2) air-population,
(3) land-population, may also mean (1) water-population, (2) land-population, (3) air-population;
and it would be unkind to bind down the reconcilers to this detail when one has parted with
so many others to oblige them.

It is not true that the species composing any one of the three populations originated during
any one of three successive periods of time, and not at any other of these.

Undoubtedly, it is in the highest degree probable that animal life appeared first under aquatic
conditions; that terrestrial forms appeared later, and flying animals only after land animals;
but it is, at the same time, testified by all the evidence we possess, that the great majority,
if not the whole, of the primordial species of each division have long since died out and have
been replaced by a vast succession of new forms. Hundreds of thousands of animal species, as
distinct as those which now compose our water, land, and air-populations, have come into existence
and died out again, throughout the aeons of geological time which separate us from the lower
Palaeozoic epoch, when, as I have pointed out, our present evidence of the existence of such
distinct populations commences. If the species of animals have all been separately created,
then it follows that hundreds of thousands of acts of creative energy have occurred, at intervals,
throughout the whole time recorded by the fossiliferous rocks; and, during the greater part
of that time, the "creation" of the members of the water, land, and air-populations must have
gone on contemporaneously.

If we represent the water, land, and air-populations by a, b, and c respectively, and take
vertical succession on the page to indicate order in time, then the following schemes will
roughly shadow forth the contrast I have been endeavouring to explain:

     Genesis (as interpreted by      Nature (as interpreted by
          Mr. Gladstone).                 natural science).
            b b b                         c1 a3 b2
               c c c                         c  a2 b1
               a a a                         b  a1 b
                                             a  a  a

So far as I can see, there is only one resource left for those modern representatives of Sisyphus,
the reconcilers of Genesis with science; and it has the advantage of being founded on a perfectly
legitimate appeal to our ignorance. It has been seen that, on any interpretation of the terms
water-population and land-population, it must be admitted that invertebrate representatives
of these populations existed during the lower Palaeozoic epoch. No evolutionist can hesitate
to admit that other land animals (and possibly vertebrates among them) may have existed during
that time, of the history of which we know so little; and, further, that scorpions are animals
of such high organisation that it is highly probable their existence indicates that of a long
antecedent land-population of a similar character.

Then, since the land-population is said not to have been created until the sixth day, it necessarily
follows that the evidence of the order in which animals appeared must be sought in the record
of those older Palaeozoic times in which only traces of the water-population have as yet been
discovered.

Therefore, if any one chooses to say that the creative work took place in the Cambrian or Laurentian
epoch, in exactly that manner which Mr. Gladstone does, and natural science does not, affirm,
natural science is not in a position to disprove the accuracy of the statement. Only one cannot
have one's cake and eat it too, and such safety from the contradiction of science means the
forfeiture of her support. And it must be recollected that the issue raised by Mr. Gladstone
is not whether, by some effort of ingenuity, the pentateuchal story can be shown to be not
disprovable by scientific knowledge, but whether it is supported thereby.

    There is nothing, then, in the criticisms of Dr. Reville but
    what rather tends to confirm than to impair the old-fashioned
    belief that there is a revelation in the book of Genesis
    (p. 694).

The form into which Mr. Gladstone has thought fit to throw this opinion leaves me in doubt
as to its substance. I do not understand how a hostile criticism can, under any circumstances,
tend to confirm that which it attacks. If, however, Mr. Gladstone merely means to express his
personal impression, "as one wholly destitute of that kind of knowledge which carries authority,"
that he has destroyed the value of these criticisms, I have neither the wish nor the right
to attempt to disturb his faith. On the other hand, I may be permitted to state my own conviction,
that, so far as natural science is involved, M. Reville's observations retain the exact value
they possessed before Mr. Gladstone attacked them.

Trusting that I have now said enough to secure the author of a wise and moderate disquisition
upon a topic which seems fated to stir unwisdom and fanaticism to their depths, a fuller measure
of justice than has hitherto been accorded to him, I retire from my self-appointed championship,
with the hope that I shall not hereafter be called upon by M. Reville to apologise for damage
done to his strong case by imperfect or impulsive advocacy. But, perhaps, I may be permitted
to add a word or two, on my own account, in reference to the great question of the relations
between science and religion; since it is one about which I have thought a good deal ever since
I have been able to think at all; and about which I have ventured to express my views publicly,
more than once, in the course of the last thirty years.

It seems to me that the moral and intellectual life of the civilised nations of Europe is the
product of that interaction, sometimes in the way of antagonism, sometimes in that of profitable
interchange, of the Semitic and the Aryan races, which commenced with the dawn of history,
when Greek and Phoenician came in contact, and has been continued by Carthaginian and Roman,
by Jew and Gentile, down to the present day. Our art (except, perhaps, music) and our science
are the contributions of the Aryan; but the essence of our religion is derived from the Semite.

But what extent of knowledge, what acuteness of scientific criticism, can touch this, if any
one possessed of knowledge, or acuteness, could be absurd enough to make the attempt? Will
the progress of research prove that justice is worthless and mercy hateful; will it ever soften
the bitter contrast between our actions and our aspirations; or show us the bounds of the universe
and bid us say, Go to, now we comprehend the infinite? A faculty of wrath lay in those ancient
Israelites, and surely the prophet's staff would have made swift acquaintance with the head
of the scholar who had asked Micah whether, peradventure, the Lord further required of him
an implicit belief in the accuracy of the cosmogony of Genesis!

What we are usually pleased to call religion nowadays is, for the most part, Hellenised Judaism;
and, not unfrequently, the Hellenic element carries with it a mighty remnant of old-world paganism
and a great infusion of the worst and weakest products of Greek scientific speculation; while
fragments of Persian and Babylonian, or rather Accadian, mythology burden the Judaic contribution
to the common stock.

The antagonism of science is not to religion, but to the heathen survivals and the bad philosophy
under which religion herself is often well-nigh crushed. And, for my part, I trust that this
antagonism will never cease; but that, to the end of time, true science will continue to fulfil
one of her most beneficent functions, that of relieving men from the burden of false science
which is imposed upon them in the name of religion.

This is the work that M. Reville and men such as he are doing for us; this is the work which
his opponents are endeavouring, consciously or unconsciously, to hinder.

FOOTNOTES

[Footnote 1: The Nineteenth Century.]

[Footnote 2: Earlier, if more recent announcements are correct.]

