"I was in the New Bazaar last night," he began curtly. "I go there regularly, as you know,
disguised as one thing or another, just for the sake of having a look at the people when they
don't know they are being watched. Last night there was no one there--not so much as a child
or a woman. The place was dead. I admit that I was not particularly startled. I knew that there
was a great festival at hand. Pilgrims have been streaming in for days past, and it was quite
conceivable that some ceremony was taking place in the temple. Curiosity fortunately led me
to investigate further. Myself disguised as a traveling fakir, I made my way to the Rajah's
palace gates. Already on the road I was joined by a hurrying stream of men and women, principally
men. My suspicions were aroused. I knew from experience that it was not a usual crowd of pilgrims.
Every man was armed, not only with knives, but guns and revolvers. Some of them were undoubtedly
deserted sepoys who had stolen their weapons. Moreover, they exchanged a signal which I recognized
and, in order to escape detection, imitated. It was the signal which in past generations revealed
one member of the Thug fraternity to another."

"Thugs!" exclaimed Stafford, with a faintly skeptical smile.

"Do not misunderstand me," Nicholson said. "I am not going to recall to your minds the nursery
horrors with which our ayahs regaled our childish imaginations. I will only emphasize one fact.
The Thugs were not and are not merely a band of murderous and treacherous robbers. They belong
to the priesthood, they are the deputed servants of the goddess Kali, and their task is the
extermination of the enemy--of the foreigner, that is to say--in this case, of ourselves."

Stafford glanced at the Colonel. The latter's face was set and grave.

"I do not for a moment suggest that the crowd with which I traveled were Thugs," Nicholson
continued. "I know that they were not. But they had adopted the Thug sign because they had
adopted the Thug mission. Not, however, till we had passed the gates and reached the palace
did I realize the gravity of the situation. The Rajah stood on the great steps, surrounded
by a body-guard of torch-bearers. He was dressed in full native costume, a blaze of gems, and
wearing the royal insignia. The expression on his face was something I shall not easily forget,
and at the time it was inexplicable to me. I can not describe it. I can only say that I was
instantly reminded of Milton's fallen Satan as he stands above his followers, superb, dauntless,
but tortured by hatred, contempt and God knows what strange minglings of remorse and anger.
He greeted the crowd with the sign of death. His first words revealed to me that his allegiance
to us was at an end, and that he meant to follow in his father's bloody footsteps."

Stafford stretched out his hand, catching hold of the back of a chair as if seeking support.

"Go on!" he said sharply.

"I have very little more to say. I did not wait, for I had heard enough to know that Marut
was in instant danger. I made my escape as best I could, but in order to avoid notice I had
to resort to circuitous paths, and only reached here this morning."

Colonel Carmichael brought his hand down angrily upon the table.

"To think that the scoundrel should have been pretending friendship all the time that he was
preparing to murder us!" he exclaimed. "This comes of trusting a native!"

"Excuse me, Colonel," Nicholson answered, with emphasis. "I have every reason to believe that
until yesterday Nehal Singh was our sincere ally."

"You mean to say that he stamped an armed crowd out of the earth in half an hour?"

"No. That armed crowd was the silent work of years. It was the tool which has been held ready
for a long time--but not by Nehal Singh--"

"By whom, then, in the name of all--"

Nicholson drew out an old and faded photograph and handed it to the Colonel.

"Do you recognize that face?" he asked.

"Certainly I do. It is the Rajah's father--Behar Singh. How did you come by this?"

"It belonged to my father. He gave it me, and I kept it as a curiosity. Colonel, I saw that
man last night at the Rajah's side."

The photograph fluttered from the Colonel's powerless fingers. He looked at Nicholson, and
there flashed into his old eyes a terrible primitive passion of revenge and hatred.

"My God! He is alive--and I never knew!"

"He is alive, Colonel. And I believe that, hidden from us all, he has been working steadily
and stealthily at the task which saw its completion last night. So long as Nehal Singh stood
on our side he could do nothing. The people believe Nehal to be an incarnation of Vishnu, and
they will only follow where he leads. Behar knew that--probably he himself had fostered the
idea. He guessed, probably, that one day Nehal Singh would turn from us. He waited. Last night
I saw a face of devilish triumph which told its own tale. He had not waited in vain."

Colonel Carmichael turned to Stafford and held out his hand. For the first time old friendship
shone out of his eyes mingled with a fire of thirsty revenge.

"You and I have a debt to pay before we die, Stafford," he said.

Stafford's hand touched his coldly and powerlessly.

"I have nothing against the Rajah," he said hoarsely. "I can not carry out a revenge against
the son--"

Colonel Carmichael interrupted him with a hard laugh.

"They are all of a piece," he said. "Say what you will, Nicholson, Nehal Singh is a traitor.
We were fools to trust him. We are always fools when we do not treat a native as a dangerous
animal. They murder us for our silly, sentimental confidence."

Nicholson bent down and, picking up the photograph, replaced it in his pocket.

"Do you think so, Colonel?" he said significantly. "From, my experience I have learned that
you can always trust a native. You can treat him as your friend and equal so long as the inequality
is there and obvious to him. I mean, so long as in everything--in generosity, in courage, and
in honor--he realizes that you are his superior."

Colonel Carmichael's face darkened with anger.

"Do you mean, perhaps, that--that we are not all that?" he demanded.

"Surely not all of us. How many men think that any sort of conduct is good enough to show a
native? What did Behar Singh see of our honor? He was our friend until an Englishman who had
eaten and drunk his hospitality repaid him by a dishonorable theft. What has Nehal Singh seen
of our superiority? In spite of his father's influence, he came to us prejudiced in our favor.
He saw heroes in us all, and he trusted himself blindly in our hands. What has been the consequence?
Look at yesterday's scene, as you have described it to me, Colonel. His best friend had proved
himself a mean and treacherous swindler. The woman whom as I judge he regarded as a saint--forgive
me, Stafford, I must be honest--no more than a heartless flirt, who had led him on from one
folly to another for the sake of a little excitement--"

"Rubbish!" Colonel Carmichael burst out. "What are exceptions in a whole race?"

"In a strange country no one is an exception, Colonel. One coward, one thief, one drunkard
is quite enough to cast the blackest slur upon the whole nation in the eyes of another race.
As sincerely as he believed yesterday that we were all heroes, as sincerely Nehal Singh believes
to-day that there isn't an honest man among us."

This time Colonel Carmichael made no answer. He went over to the window and stood there frowning
obstinately out over the neglected garden. His eyes fell on the ruined bungalow, and he called
Nicholson to his side.

"Look at that!" he said. "In that place Behar Singh murdered my best and only friend, Steven
Caruthers. I have not forgotten and I can not forget. It has branded every native for me as
a murderer. No doubt this proves your argument. From the first I shrank from all contact with
the present Rajah. I distrusted him, and it is obvious now that my distrust was well founded.
What do you say, Stafford? You, too, were against having anything to do with him."

To his surprise and annoyance, Stafford did not respond. He stood there with his hands clasping
the back of the chair, his brows knitted in painful thought.

"Come, Stafford, what have you to say?" the Colonel repeated impatiently.

"I think there is a good deal in what Nicholson says," Stafford answered, speaking as though
he had only just heard that he was being addressed. "The Rajah has not been well treated. He
has a right to feel bitter. And he seemed a fine sort of man. Without prejudice, Colonel, one
can not withhold a certain admiration for him. He has behaved better than some of us."

Colonel Carmichael frowned, but his sense of justice forced him to a reluctant admission.

"Yes, he has a few showy virtues. Yesterday, for instance. Under the circumstances, he behaved
like a gentleman and a man of honor. Before nightfall the English share-holders in the mine
got their money back in gems and rupees--he must have pulled the palace to pieces. In fact,
everything might have gone off smoothly if it hadn't been for that--that--" He coughed and
glanced at Stafford, not without a touch of malicious satisfaction.

"You are alluding to Miss Cary, Colonel," Stafford said, returning his glance with dignity,
"and you are at liberty to say what you like, for I have no longer the right to champion her.
At her request, our engagement is at an end. But as her friend I can not refrain from saying
this much--she has not spared herself, and, God knows, she also has not been treated well."

What memories passed before the Colonel's mind as he stood there gazing absently in front of
him! Recollections of mean and envious criticisms, ugly underhand slanders, petty intrigue,
his own shame-faced patronage! And then the vision of a lovely, white-faced woman making her
desperate self-accusal, and of a terrible, vulgar mother trying to hold her back with threats
and pleadings! He turned at last to the two men, his own face red and troubled.

"I apologize," he said. "I apologize all around. I seem to have been insulting everybody in
turn. I dare say you are all right. The Rajah may be ill-used and Miss Cary well-meaning. I
don't know. And what on earth does it matter? The fat is in the fire, and here we stand chattering
like old women about how it got there. Something must be done. The regiment is a day's march
from here, and with a company of your Gurkhas, Nicholson, we shan't do much--scarcely hold
out if they dare attack us."

"They will dare," Nicholson answered. "So much I know for certain, and it will probably be
to-night. I can vouch for my men, and we must do our best until help comes. But--" He paused
rather significantly.

"But what, man? Don't you think it will come in time? I have already telegraphed. They will
be here in twenty-four hours. Surely we can manage so long."

"Colonel, if you had seen what I saw last night, you would not count much on help. It isn't
the rising of a few unarmed men. It is the revolt of a fanatic, warlike nation led by a man.
They call him God. His godhead does not matter to us. As a god we have no need to fear him;
but as a man and a born leader of men, with hatred and revenge as an incentive, armed with
unlimited power, he is an enemy not to be held at bay by a handful of Gurkhas and not to be
conquered by a regiment."

His words had their quiet, fatal significance. Colonel Carmichael and Stafford looked at each
other. Hitherto they had faced the situation coolly enough, with their eternal national optimism
and self-confidence. This man had wrenched down the veil, and they stood before a chasm to
which there seemed no shore, no bottom. It was the end, and they knew it.

"You mean, then, that it is all over?" the Colonel said casually. "You know more than either
of us. You ought to be able to tell."

"Yes, Colonel, I should judge that it was all over, unless a miracle happens."

"We might fight our way through."

"On my way early this morning the roads were already guarded. They did not recognize me, otherwise
I should not be here."

"And the women?"

All three men had grown cool and indifferent. Death had stepped in, and from that moment it
was not seemly to show either trouble or excitement.

"According to my idea, the women had better be lodged here in your bungalow," Nicholson said.
"The surrounding walls make it a good place of defense. The barracks are too open."

The Colonel nodded. Quite unconsciously he was letting the reins of command slip into the younger
and stronger hands.

"They must be brought over at once," he assented. "Thank Heaven most of them have gone to the
hills. Mrs. Berry and that--that other woman had better not be told what's up. They will only
make a fuss. My wife will understand--and Lois will be all right. We must get hold of Travers,
if it is only for her sake. It would serve him right if we left him to his fate."

Stafford took a step forward.

"I have a suggestion to make, Colonel," he said.

Colonel Carmichael looked at him. Throughout the interview Stafford had acted and spoken like
a man who is weighed down by a burden of terrible doubt and perplexity. He alone of the three
men had shown the first sign of emotion, and emotion in the face of death was for the Colonel
no better than fear. His face hardened.

"Well," he said, "what is it?"

"Rajah Nehal Singh is not a barbarian," Stafford began. "I believe he would listen to reason
if one of us could get hold of him. He seems to have his country's welfare at heart, and if
it was explained to what horrible bloodshed he was leading it--"

"There must be no cringing!" Colonel Carmichael interrupted sharply.

"It will not be a case of cringing. We could simply put the matter before him."

"There is something in what Stafford says," Nicholson agreed. "From what I know of the Rajah,
he seems both reasonable and humane. He may have yielded to his father's importunities in a
fit of anger, and is perhaps already wishing himself well out of the mess. For the women's
sake, Colonel, we ought to have a shot--and not all for the women's sake, either. Heaven knows
what this business will cost England if it comes to a head!"

Colonel Carmichael bit his lip impatiently. He did not recognize his own motives of desiring
a last hand-to-hand struggle. They were those of an old man who sees Cheltenham and stagnation
looming in the distance and prays for death. But his common sense conquered the selfish promptings.

"Who would be likely to undertake the mission with any hope of success?" he asked.

"Nehal Singh and I were, toward the end, rather more than friendly," Nicholson began. "I believe
he entertained a real liking for me--"

"If any one goes, I must!" The interruption came from Stafford. His head was raised. He faced
the two men with a stern determination. "No, Nicholson; I know all you want to say. I have
no sort of sympathy with the natives--I haven't your power over them. But this is different.
I have a power. I may have. Let me go. If I fail, then you can try."

"By the time you have failed it will be too late," Nicholson returned. He was watching Stafford
with almost pitying curiosity. His keen instinct penetrated the man's strained and nervous
bearing to some conflict which seemed to have had its birth with the first mention of Nehal
Singh's name.

"It will not be too late," Stafford answered persistently. "I ask for an hour, Colonel. In
an hour I shall know--whether--whether I have the power."

"Captain Stafford, are you mad!" the Colonel said sternly. "This is not a time for experiments."

"I ask for an hour," Stafford repeated, and there was an emphasis and earnestness in his voice
which cut short Colonel Carmichael's angry sarcasm. "At the end of that time Nicholson can
do what he likes. I am not mad. I beg of you to ask no questions. I can not answer them. I
can only tell you that I have a great responsibility--toward you all and toward another."

Colonel Carmichael was silent for a moment. Stafford's manner awed and troubled him in spite
of himself.

"Very well," he said at last. "I give you an hour. During that time we will make preparations
for the worst." He took out his watch. "It is now eleven. At twelve the matter passes into
Nicholson's hands."

Stafford saluted.

"I understand, Colonel."

Nicholson accompanied him toward the door.

"God-speed!" he said simply. Stafford hesitated, his heavy eyes resting on the fine face of
his brother-officer with an almost passionate gratitude.

"Thank you, Nicholson, thank you. God help me to do what is right!"

He turned and hurried from the room.

CHAPTER V

MURDER

Archibald Travers stood in his favorite attitude by the window, his shoulder propped against
the casement, his arms folded, a smile of good-natured amusement on his healthy face.

"My dear child," he protested, "what earthly interest can it have for you to know the pros
and cons of the business? You wouldn't understand, and that small head would ache for a week
afterward. Be content with the outline of the thing. Of course it has all been frightfully
unfortunate. But the Rajah wasn't to be held back. He believed the mine was going to be the
making of Marut--and for a matter of fact so did I at first, otherwise I shouldn't have put
all my money in it. The fellow had an enthusiasm and confidence which fairly carried us off
our feet. Well, it's done, and it's no use crying about it. The best thing we can do is to
clear out of Marut as fast as we can. People are bound to be disagreeable about it."

"The Carys are ruined too?" she asked.

"Oh, I don't know--they have lost a bit, I suppose." His voice sounded unpleasant. "At any
rate, I'll say that for them--they behaved as people of their extraction would behave. First
the mother poured out a torrent of abuse over the poor Rajah which would have been the envy
of a fish-wife, and then the daughter turned on me." He laughed. "It was a most powerful scene
of feminine hysterics. I was glad that you were not there."

Lois sat silent, her head resting on her hand, her eyes fixed thoughtfully on the table.

"And what are we going to do?" she asked at last. "You take the matter so easily, but if we
are really ruined--"

He laid his hand affectionately on her shoulder.

"I am ruined, Lois. I did not say that you were. Even with your rather low opinion of me, you
could hardly have supposed that I would touch your money. You are well enough off to do what
you like. As for me--" he squared his shoulders--"I feel quite capable of starting things all
over again."

His tone touched her. She looked up, and her face softened. There was nothing that could have
made her happier than to have discovered in her husband some elements of courage and sincerity.

"Of course, Archibald, whatever is mine is yours," she said. "You must have known that."

"My dear generous little woman!" He bent over her and kissed her, apparently unconscious that
she instinctively drew back from his caress. "If you really will help me, no doubt I shall
build things up again in no time, and this one blunder won't count for much. You are a worthy
comrade for a man."

Perhaps he had accepted her offer too quickly, perhaps his tone jarred on her as too elated,
too satisfied. She got up, pushing her letters quickly to one side.

"You really wish us to start for Madras to-night?"

