The associates of the Christ Initiate were people of highly developed intelligence but of less
experience in supersensible spheres than any of their contemporaries. The Initiate journeyed
with them to a country in central Asia. He wished them to be guarded as much as possible from
contact with those of less developed consciousness. He instructed his followers along the lines
of the mysteries which had been revealed to him and especially did he do this with their descendants.
Thus he gathered round him a people who had received into their hearts the impulses corresponding
to the Mysteries of the Christ Initiation. Out of this company he chose the seven best, that
they might be endowed with the etheric and astral bodies which bore the impress of the etheric
bodies of the seven best Atlantean Initiates. Thus he educated a successor to each of the Christ,
Saturn, Jupiter, etc., Initiates. These seven Initiates became the teachers and leaders of
the people who, in the post-Atlantean period, had colonized the south of Asia, especially ancient
India. Since these great teachers were endowed with the etheric bodies of their spiritual ancestors,
the contents of their astral body, that is, the science and knowledge they themselves had worked
out, was far below what was revealed to them through their etheric body. Therefore if these
revelations were to speak within them, they were obliged to impose silence on their own science
and knowledge. Then the exalted beings who had also spoken to their spiritual ancestors spoke
out of and through them. Except during the times when these beings were speaking through them,
they were simple people, endowed with the measure of intelligence and feeling which they had
cultivated and worked out for themselves.

There lived at this time in India a race of people who had retained a particularly vivid remembrance
of the ancient soul-condition of the Atlanteans, which permitted experiences in the spiritual
world. Moreover, the heart and soul of a great number of these people were powerfully attracted
by such experiences. By a wise decree of fate, the majority of the race had come to southern
Asia from among the best portions of the Atlantean population. Besides this majority, other
Atlanteans had migrated thither at different times. The Christ Initiate, referred to above,
appointed his seven great disciples to be the teachers of this association of people, to whom
they imparted their wisdom and precepts. Many of these ancient Indians needed but little preparation
for reviving within them the scarcely extinct faculties leading to observation of the supersensible
world. For longing after that world was really a fundamental quality of the Indian soul. It
was felt that man’s original home was in that world. He is transplanted out of it into this
one, which offers only outer sense-observation and the intelligence connected with it.

The supersensible world was felt to be the real world, and the sense-world to be a deception
of the human power of observation, an illusion (Maya). By every possible means these people
strove to open up a view of the real world. They could take no interest in the illusory sense-world,
or at any rate only so far as it proved to be a veil for the supersensible. The power going
out from the Seven Great Teachers to such people as these, was a mighty one. What they were
able to reveal entered deeply into the Indian soul; and since the possession of the transmitted
etheric and astral bodies invested the teachers with lofty powers, they were also able to work
magically on their disciples. They did not really teach; they worked as though by magic power
from one personality to another. Thus there arose a civilization completely saturated with
supersensible wisdom. The contents of the books of wisdom of the Hindus, the Vedas, do not
give the original form of the lofty wisdom imparted by the great teachers of most ancient times,
only a feeble echo of it. Only the seer’s eye, looking backward is able to find unwritten primeval
wisdom behind the written words.

A particularly prominent feature of this ancient wisdom is the harmonious accord of the various
wisdom oracles of the Atlantean time. For each of the Great Teachers was able to unveil the
wisdom of one of these oracles, and these different aspects were in complete harmony, because
behind them all was the fundamental wisdom of the Christ Initiation. It is true the teacher
who was the successor of the Christ Initiate did not impart to his disciples what the Christ
Initiate himself was able to reveal. The latter had remained in the background during this
period of evolution. At first he was unable to entrust his high office to any post-Atlantean.
The difference between him and the Christ Initiate of the Seven Great Indian Teachers was that
the former was able to work his vision of the Christ Mystery completely into the form of human
ideas, whereas the Indian Christ Initiate could only offer a reflection of the Mystery in signs
and symbols; for his humanly cultivated power of conception did not suffice for such a Mystery.
However, from the union of the Seven Teachers there resulted a knowledge of the supersensible
world, presented in one great wisdom-panorama, of which only separate portions could be imparted
in the ancient Atlantean oracles. The great Regents of the cosmos were revealed, and the One
great Sun-spirit, the Hidden One, ruling over those who were manifested through the seven teachers,
was delicately indicated.

What is here meant by “ancient Indians” is not the same as what is usually understood by that
term. No outer documents exist of the period in question. The people usually known as “Indians”
belong to a stage of historical evolution which was developed long after the time spoken of
here. We have to distinguish a first post-Atlantean period of the earth, in which the Indian
civilization now described was the predominant one; then came a second post-Atlantean period
in which the prevailing civilization was that which later in this work is called the “ancient
Persian,” and still later was developed the Egypto-Chaldean civilization, also to be described.
During the evolution of these second and third post-Atlantean epochs, “ancient” India also
went through a second and third epoch, and to this third epoch belongs what is usually related
of ancient India. What is described here must therefore not be applied to the “ancient India”
mentioned elsewhere.

