The extraordinary powers of flight which insects possess are due to the conjoined influences
of the two conditions that have been named--the lightness of their air-filled bodies, and the
strength of their chest-packed muscles. Where light air is circulated instead of heavy blood,
great vascularity serves only to make existence more ethereal. Plethora probably takes the
insect nearer to the skies, instead of dragging it towards the dust. The hawk-moth, with its
burly body, may often be seen hovering gracefully, on quivering wings, over some favourite
flower, as if it were hung there on cords, while it rifles it of its store of accumulated sweets
by means of its long unfolded tongue. The common house-fly makes 600 strokes every second in
its ordinary flight, and gets through five feet of space by means of them; but when alarmed,
it can increase the velocity of its wing-strokes some five or six fold, and move through thirty-five
feet in the second. Kirby believed, that if the house-fly were made equal to the horse in size,
and had its muscular power increased in the same proportion, it would be able to traverse the
globe with the rapidity of lightning. The dragon-fly often remains on the wing in pursuit of
its prey for hours at a stretch, and yet will sometimes baffle the swallow by its speed, although
that bird is calculated to be able to move at the rate of a mile in a minute. But the dexterity
of this insect is even more surprising than its swiftness, for it is able to do what no bird
can: it is able to stop instantaneously in the midst of its most rapid course, and change the
direction of its flight, going sideways or backwards, without altering the position of its body.

As a general rule, insect wings that are intended for employment in flight are transparent
membranes, with the course of the air-tubes marked out upon them as opaque nervures. These
air-tubes, it will be remembered, are lined by spires of dense cartilage; and hence it is that
they become nervures so well adapted to act like tent-lines in keeping the expanded membranes
stretched. In the dragon-flies, the nervures are minutely netted for the sake of increased
strength; in the bees, the nervures are simply parallel. Most insects have two pairs of these
transparent membraneous wings; but in such as burrow, one pair is converted into a dense leather-like
case, under which the other pair are folded away. In the flies, only one pair of wings can
be found at all, the other pair being changed into two little club-shaped bodies, called balancers.

Butterflies and moths are the only insects that fly by means of opaque wings; but in their
case the opacity is apparent rather than real, for it is caused by the presence of a very beautiful
layer of coloured scales spread evenly over the outer surface of the membranes. When these
scales are brushed off, membraneous wings of the ordinary transparent character are disclosed.
The scales are attached to the membrane by little stems, like the quill-ends of feathers, and
they are arranged in overlapping rows. The variegated colours and patterns of the insects are
entirely due to them. If the wings of a butterfly be pressed upon a surface of card-board covered
with gum-water to the extent of their own outlines, and be left there until the gum-water is
dry, the outer layer of scales may be rubbed off with a handkerchief, and the double membranes
and intervening nervures may be picked away piecemeal with a needle's point, and there will
remain upon the card a most beautiful representation of the other surface of the wings, its
scales being all preserved by the gum in their natural positions. If the outlines of the wings
be carefully pencilled first, and the gum-water be then delicately and evenly brushed on, just
as far as the outlines, a perfect and durable fac-simile, in all the original variety of colour
and marking, is procured, which needs only to have the form of the body sketched in, to make
it a very pretty and accurate delineation of the insect.

RUSTICATION IN A FRENCH VILLAGE.

Poverty is difficult to bear under any circumstances, but when compelled entirely to alter
our habits of life in the same place where we have lived differently, we certainly feel it
more acutely than when we at once change the scene, and see around us nothing we can well compare
with what is past. It is unnecessary to say by what means our easy fortune was reduced to a
mere pittance; but, alas! it was so, and we found ourselves forced to seek another dwelling-place.
Following the example of most of our country-people in a similar situation, therefore, we resolved
to go abroad; not, indeed, to enjoy society on an income which would in England totally shut
us out from it, but to live in absolute retirement upon next to nothing. A cousin of mine--whose
friend, Mlle de Flotte, long resident in England, had married a countryman of her own, and
settled in Normandy--wrote to Mme de Terelcourt accordingly, to ask if there was a habitable
hut in her neighbourhood where we might find shelter for three years, before which time we
were told the settlement of our affairs could scarcely be completed. The answer was favourable:
there was, she said, near the village of Flotte, a cottage which contained a kitchen, three
rooms, and a garret where a bonne might sleep. A large garden was attached to it full of fruit-trees,
though in a most neglected condition, and even the house requiring to be made weather-tight;
but as the landlord undertook this latter business, and the rent for the whole was only L.12
a year, we gladly closed with the offer, and at the end of the month of April proceeded to
take possession of our new home.

The situation was most lovely. The garden surrounded three sides of the cottage, and a large
green field, or rather thinly-planted apple-orchard, the other, where grazed four fine cows
belonging to a farm on the opposite side of the lane, which supplied us with butter, eggs,
and milk, and was near enough not to annoy but to gratify our ears with the country sounds
so pleasant to those fond of rural things, and to give us the feeling of help at hand in case
of any emergency. We were on the slope of a tolerably lofty hill; the high-road was below,
where we could see and hear the diligence pass; but saving this, the farm-yard noises, and
the birds and bees in the garden, were the only disturbers of our perfect quiet, except, indeed,
the soothing sound of a small brook tinkling over a tiny waterfall, quite audible, although
a good way on the other side of the grande route. The town of C---- was seen to our right,
the sea glittering beyond; and a rocky, shrubby dell, through which the little stream above
mentioned murmured merrily on its way, turning a rustic mill, was the prospect from the windows.
Two lime-trees stood at the gate, inside of which we joyfully discovered an unexpected lodge
or cottage, containing two little rooms and a large shed, which had not been mentioned in the
description, and which we found most useful for stowing away packing-cases, hampers, and boxes,
keeping potatoes and apples, and a hundred things besides. The short road--avenue, our landlord
termed it--which led from this to the house, had a strawberry-bank on one side, a row of cherry-trees
on the other; and the garden, although overgrown with weeds and sprawling shrubs, looked quite
capable of being easily made very pretty indeed. The entrance to this our magnificent château
was through the kitchen only; for the room next it, although it could boast of an outside-door
likewise, had none which opened into the interior of the house, was neither lathed nor plastered,
and the bare earth was all there was to tread upon. Upstairs the flooring consisted merely
of planks laid down; and you could hear when below the pins dropped from above, unless, indeed,
they fell, as they generally did, into the large crevices. The bonne's mansarde was but a garret,
where, till you got into the very middle, you could not stand upright; and although the tiled
roof had been just painted and repaired, the breath of heaven came wooingly in every direction,
even through the thick-leaved vines which covered it, closely trained up there, to make room
for the apricots that grew against the wall below. Close by, a little stair led you out upon
a terrace, where a road, bordered by peach-trees and backed by plums, gave a dry walk in all
weathers; but you could go higher, higher, and higher still, terrace after terrace, till it
terminated in a rock covered with briers and brambles--the fruit of which latter were as large
and as good as mulberries. This we called our garden-wall, and it had a sunny seat commanding
an extensive view, and from which all we saw was beautiful. How often have I sat there dreaming,
lulled by the murmur of the insect world around, till the merry fife of a band of conscripts
on their march, or the distant boom of a cannon from the forts, restored me to a consciousness
that I was still at least in the world, although not of it.

But now I am going to descend to figures, and can assure my incredulous English readers, that
what I relate is strictly true--vraie, although not vraisemblable. We hired a stout girl to
weed and wash, without food, at 2-1/2 d. a day; and another for L.5 per annum undertook to
be our sole servant--to clean, and cook, and dress madame, only stipulating that she was to
have soupe à la graisse and brown bread à discrétion three times a day, two sous for cider,
her aprons, and washing; but hoped if she gave satisfaction, that sometimes upon Sunday she
might be allowed a bit of meat: on Fridays an egg and an apple contented her, and an occasional
fish made her shout with joy. An old soldier, who had returned to his primitive employment
of gardener, and lived near, undertook to dig, prune, and plant in the garden for a franc a
day, during the time we ourselves were engaged with the inside of our mansion, and to come
afterwards at 2d. an hour when we wanted him, either to go to C---- for marketing, or to do
anything else we required, for the hamlet of Flotte did not possess many shops. At this hamlet,
however, we obtained bread and a variety of small articles on very moderate terms.

Having hired the requisite furniture, and papered the walls of our apartments, the humble tenement
looked clean and comfortable. To get all into order, we both worked hard, and very soon could
sit down by 'our own fireside' in a quiet, cheerful house, almost the work of our own hands,
and therefore every creek and cranny in it full of interest. Mme de Terelcourt, with refined
politeness, did not attempt to visit us herself until she understood we could receive her sans
géne; but she sent fruit and vegetables, and kind messages constantly, and at last a note intimating
that she would, if convenient, call upon us after church next day. Strawberries and cream,
butter, eggs, fresh bread, and the commonest vin ordinaire, were easily procured, of which
our guest ate heartily, saying she would bring the rest of the family next day to partake of
a similar feast. They came accordingly, and with them a cart loaded with shrubs, plants, flowers,
and a whole hive of honeycomb, and various little comforts besides, pretending that they were
thankful to us for receiving their superabundance, instead of obliging them to throw it away.
This hospitable, unaffected kindness continued unabated the whole time of our stay, and the
kind beings always contrived to make out that they were the obliged persons, and we so polite
and condescending for deigning to receive such trifles. M. and Mme de Terelcourt lived with
M. le Marquis de Flotte and his wife; and her brother, the Count de Belgravin, occupied a house
a quarter of a mile distant, which, although by no means a comfortable residence, he rented
purposely to be near his sister. These amiable people spent a part of every day together, for
they did not associate much with the inhabitants of C----; and I look back with much pleasure
to our social evenings, when light-hearted merriment constantly prevailed; and I often thought
how few of the many who talk so gravely of patience and resignation to the will of God, could
or would understand that cheerfulness is, in fact, but a different way of shewing that resignation.

Our maid, Batilde, knew nothing about the cuisine beyond a good roux and a bad omelet; and
except making a bed, appeared ignorant of all housework--even washing, dusting, or sweeping
thoroughly. She, however, did everything we did not do for ourselves, and ironed the linen
after a fashion. Tonette washed for us in the little river aforesaid, where she used an incredible
quantity of soap, thumping our things with a piece of flat wood upon a great stone, most conveniently,
as she observed, placed there for the purpose 'by the saints in heaven;' which method, if it
hastened its wearing out, made our linen at least sweet and clean while it lasted. My husband
shot and cultivated the garden in the respective seasons appropriate to these occupations,
whilst I bought a cookery-book called 'Les Expériences de Mademoiselle Marguerite;' and pretending
to be learning myself, taught Batilde to prepare our food a little better, without hurting
her self-conceit, of which she possessed more than the average of her countrywomen. Our time,
therefore, was fully occupied. Our health improved and our spirits rose with the excitement;
we had agreeable society in the excellent people named above, meeting sans façon, taking breakfast
or luncheon with each other, instead of dinners, in winter, and in summer often spending the
evening at one another's houses.

At a distance not insurmountable there was an English chapel; but the character of the clergyman
was not of a kind to recommend itself to persons who had some regard for the decencies of life;
and so we contented ourselves with saying our prayers at home. The old curé of the place, with
whom we became slightly acquainted, seemed to be a worthy sort of man, liberal in his ideas,
and possessed of a considerable taste for music. He made rather an agreeable and obliging neighbour.

Talking of curés, I may mention that one came from a distance of several miles to pay his respects
to us, and offer welcome to France. He said, he desired to make our acquaintance because we
came from England, where he had found 'rest for twenty years, and received much kindness.'
He was a rich man, had a pretty little church, a picturesque house in a sort of park, which
he had stocked with pigs instead of sheep; and every day that was not one of fasting or abstinence,
he had pork for dinner. He took a great fancy to us, and wanted us to give up our cottage,
and come and live with him, as he had plenty of room and desired society; but we declined.
Had we done so, I doubt not that he would have left us his money, for he had no relations,
and bequeathed the whole, for want of an heir, to his grocer. He grew cooler after our refusal,
but still sometimes came to see us on a pot-bellied cart-horse--a most stolid-looking beast,
but one which often took most laughably strange fits of friskiness. Once I saw the good curé's
watch jump out of his pocket, fly over his head, and disappear amid a heap of nettles, where
little Victor found it, and hoped for a rich reward; but he only received an old book of devotion,
and a lecture on the duty of reading it.

