And this way runs the trail that follows the lower level, where those who travel, as they go,
look always over their shoulders with eyes of dread, and the gloomy shadows gather long before
the day is done.

CHAPTER XLIII.

POOR PETE.

They buried the artist in the cave as he had directed, close under the wall on the ledge above
the canon, with no stone or mark of any sort to fix the place. The old mine which he had discovered
was reached by one of the side passages far below in the depth of the mountain. The grave would
never be disturbed.

For two weeks longer, Dr. Coughlan staid with his friend; out on the hills with him all day,
helping to cook their meals at the ranch, or sitting on the porch at the Matthews place when
the day was gone. When the time finally came that he must go, the little physician said, as
he grasped the shepherd's hand, "You're doing just right, Daniel; just right. Always did; always
did. Blast it all! I would stay, too, but what would Sarah and the girls do? I'll come again
next spring, Daniel, sure, sure, if I'm alive. Don't worry, no one will ever know. Blast it
all! I don't like to leave you, Daniel. Don't like it at all. But you are right, right, Daniel."

The old scholar stood in the doorway of his cabin to watch the wagon as it disappeared in the
forest. He heard it rattle across the creek bottom below the ruined cabin under the bluff.
He waited until from away up on Compton Ridge the sound of wheels came to him on the breeze
that slipped down the mountain side. Still he waited, listening, listening, until there were
only the voices of the forest and the bleating of the sheep in the corral. Slipping a book
in his pocket, and taking a luncheon for himself and Pete he opened the corral gate and followed
his flock to the hills.

All that summer Pete was the shepherd's constant companion. At first he seemed not to understand.
Frequently he would start off suddenly for the cave, only to return after a time, with that
look of trouble upon his delicate face. Mr. Howitt tried to help the boy, and he appeared gradually
to realize in part. Once he startled his old friend by saying quietly, "When are you goin', Dad?"

"Going where? Where does Pete think Dad is going?"

The boy was lying on his back on the grassy hillside watching the clouds. He pointed upward,
"There, where HE went; up there in the white hills. Pete knows."

The other looked long at the lad before answering quietly, "Dad does not know when he will
go. But he is ready any time, now."

"Pete says better not wait long, Dad; 'cause Pete he's a goin' an' course when he goes I've
got to go 'long. Do you reckon Dad can see Pete when he is up there in them white hills? Some
folks used to laugh at Pete when he told about the white hills, the flower things, the sky
things, an' the moonlight things that play in the mists. An' once a fellow called Pete a fool,
an' Young Matt he whipped him awful. But folks wasn't really to blame, 'cause they couldn't
see 'em. That's what HE said. An' HE knew, 'cause he could see 'em too. But Aunt Mollie, an'
Uncle Matt, an' you all, they don't never laugh. They just say, 'Pete knows.' But they couldn't
see the flower things, or the tree things neither. Only HE could see."

The summer passed, and, when the blue gray haze took on the purple touch and all the woods
and hills were dressed with cloth of gold, Pete went from the world in which he had never really
belonged, nor had been at home. Mr. Howitt, writing to Dr. Coughlan of the boy's death, said:

"Here and there among men, there are those who pause in the hurried rush to listen to the call
of a life that is more real. How often have we seen them, David, jostled and ridiculed by their
fellows, pushed aside and forgotten, as incompetent or unworthy. He who sees and hears too
much is cursed for a dreamer, a fanatic, or a fool, by the mad mob, who, having eyes, see not,
ears and hear not, and refuse to understand.

"We build temples and churches, but will not worship in them; we hire spiritual advisers, but
refuse to heed them; we buy bibles, but will not read them; believing in God, we do not fear
Him; acknowledging Christ, we neither follow nor obey Him. Only when we can no longer strive
in the battle for earthly honors or material wealth, do we turn to the unseen but more enduring
things of life; and, with ears deafened by the din of selfish war and cruel violence, and eyes
blinded by the glare of passing pomp and folly, we strive to hear and see the things we have
so long refused to consider.

"Pete knew a world unseen by us, and we, therefore, fancied ourselves wiser than he. The wind
in the pines, the rustle of the leaves, the murmur of the brook, the growl of the thunder,
and the voices of the night were all understood and answered by him. The flowers, the trees,
the rocks, the hills, the clouds were to him, not lifeless things, but living friends, who
laughed and wept with him as he was gay or sorrowful.

"'Poor Pete,' we said. Was he in truth, David, poorer or richer than we?"

They laid the boy beside his mother under the pines on the hills; the pines that showed so
dark against the sky when the sun was down behind the ridge. And over his bed the wild vines
lovingly wove a coverlid of softest green, while all his woodland friends gathered about his
couch. Forest and hill and flower and cloud sang the songs he loved. All day the sunlight laid
its wealth in bars of gold at his feet, and at night the moonlight things and the shadow things
came out to play.

Summer and autumn slipped away; the winter passed; spring came, with all the wonder of the
resurrection of flower and leaf and blade. So peace and quiet came again into the shepherd's
life. When no answer to his letter was received, and the doctor did not return as he had promised,
the old man knew that the last link connecting him with the world was broken.

CHAPTER XLIV.

THE TRAIL ON THE SUNLIT HILLS.

When Young Matt first knew that Sammy had sent Ollie back to the city with no promise to follow,
he took to the woods, and returned only after miles of tramping over the wildest, roughest
part of the country. The big fellow said no word, but on his face was a look that his father
understood, and the old mountaineer felt his own blood move more quickly at the sight.

But when Sammy with her books was fully established in the Matthews home, and Young Matt seemed
always, as the weeks went by, to find her reading things that he could not understand, he was
made to realize more fully what her studies with the shepherd meant. He came to feel that she
had already crossed the threshold into that world where Mr. Howitt lived. And, thinking that
he himself could never enter, he grew lonely and afraid.

With the quickness that was so marked in her character, Sammy grasped the meaning of his trouble
almost before Young Matt himself knew fully what it was. Then the girl, with much care and
tact, set about helping him to see the truths which the shepherd had revealed to her.

All through the summer and fall, when the day's work was done, or on a Sunday afternoon, they
were together, and gradually the woods and the hills, with all the wild life that is in them,
began to have for the young man a new meaning; or, rather, he learned little by little to read
the message that lay on the open pages; first a word here and there, then sentences, then paragraphs,
and soon he was reading alone, as he tramped the hills for stray stock, or worked in the mountain
field. The idle days of winter and the long evenings were spent in reading aloud from the books
that had come to mean most to her.

