NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

THE DINGY HOUSE.

London is like a large company, where it is necessary for the master or mistress of the house
to introduce a great many people to each other. Everybody in that overgrown metropolis has
things within a few doors of his residence, which, if they were suddenly described to him,
he would hear of with deep interest or extreme astonishment. There is a plain back street near
the Haymarket, bearing the title of Great Windmill Street, in which there is a large, dingy-looking
house standing somewhat detached, and not appearing to be in the hands of ordinary tenants.
Very near this, is a distinguished haunt of gaiety, very well whitened, and looking very smart,
but which would be no index to the character or purposes of the dingy mansion. A group of dirty
children will be found disporting at marbles or pitch-and-toss on the paved recess in front;
but neither would that scene be found in any kind of harmony with the house itself. It is evidently
a house with a mystery.

Very few people would be found in the course of a day to pass out of or into that house. A
blind would seldom be raised. A fashionable carriage would not once in a twelvemonth be seen
rolling up to the gloomy portals. Supposing, however, that any one were to be so curious as
to watch the house for an afternoon, he would probably see two women in extraordinary dresses
come up to the door, apparently laden with some heavy packages, shrouded under their wide black
cloaks. He would see the door opened with some caution, and the two women would then walk in,
and be seen no more for that day. He might speculate for hours about the business in which
these women had been engaged, but in vain. He might make inquiries in the neighbourhood, but
probably with as little result; for, in London, it must be an extraordinary family indeed which
provokes any inquiry among neighbours, and most undoubtedly the inmates of the mansion would
never think of proclaiming what they were, or how they lived.

Having perhaps by this time excited some curiosity, we must endeavour to satisfy it. We happened
by mere chance, when spending an evening with a friend in a distant part of the town, to hear
of this house and its tenants; and the doings and character of its inmates struck our mind
as something so extraordinary, and in some respects so beautiful, that we resolved, if possible,
to pay it a visit. We did so a few days thereafter, under the conduct of a young friend, who
kindly undertook to smooth away all difficulties in the way of our reception. We can, therefore,
give some account of the dingy house, with a tolerable assurance that, strange as the matter
may appear, it is no more than true.

This dingy house is possessed by ten women, chiefly natives of France, who form a branch of
a religious society of recent origin in that country, entitled, Les Petites Soeurs des Pauvres
(Little Sisterhood for the Poor). They have been in this house only for a few months, but are
already fully engaged in the business to which they have devoted themselves--which is the care
and nurture of infirm and destitute old women. The extraordinary thing is that the Sisters,
though most of them are in their education and previous habits ladies, literally go about begging
for the means of maintaining these poor people. Everything is done, indeed, by begging; for
on entering the sisterhood they renounce all earthly possessions. They have begged the means
of furnishing their house, and paying their rent, which is not an inconsiderable sum; they
daily beg for the food, clothes, and cordials required for themselves and the objects of their
charity. What is even more singular, these ladies in all respects serve the old women, wash
for them, cook for them, act as their nurses. They treat themselves less kindly, for out of
the broken victuals on which exclusively the house is supported, the old women always get the
first selection, and the ladies only the remaining scraps. It is altogether the most striking
example of self-denial and self-devotion which has ever happened to fall under our attention
in this country.

We were received in a faded old dining-room, by a Sister whose age surprised us, for she did
not appear to be above five-and-twenty. Her dress consisted of coarse black serge, and a linen
cap, such as is worn by poor old women in the country. She was evidently a well-educated and
refined English lady, who, under a different impulse, might have very probably been indulging
at this moment in the gaieties of Almacks. With great courtesy, but without for a moment departing
from the serious manner in which she had first addressed us, she conducted us through the house,
and explained its various arrangements. We were first shewn into a large hall in the rear,
where we found about thirty little beds, only a few of which were occupied, the greater number
of the inmates being able to sit up and move about the house. Nothing could exceed the homeliness
of the furniture, though everything was remarkably clean. In another dormitory up stairs, we
found ten or twelve bedrid women, one of them within a few months of completing the hundredth
year of her age, but able to converse. Another was a comparatively young woman, who had three
months ago had a limb amputated. A Sister, in her plain dark dress, stood in this room, ready
to attend any of the poor women. We were next conducted to a large room, where a number of
the inmates were at dinner. They rose modestly at our entrance, and we had some difficulty
in inducing them to resume their seats. We were curious to see the viands, knowing that they
were composed solely of the crumbs from the rich man's table, and having some idea, that as
most of the Sisters were French, there might be some skill shewn in putting these morsels into
new and palatable forms. We did not, however, find that the dishes were superior to what might
have been expected in a workhouse. The principal article was a pudding, composed of pounded
scraps and crusts of bread, and bearing much the appearance of the oatmeal porridge of Scotland.
Ladies attend the old women at table, acting entirely as servants do in a gentleman's dining-room,
though only in the limited extent to which such services are required at a meal so simple.
It is only after this meal is concluded, that the ladies sit down to their own equally frugal
fare. We were curious to know if they indulge in tea, considering this as a sort of crucial
test of their self-denying principles. We were informed that the article is not bought for
them, on account of its being so expensive. Used tea-leaves are obtained from the tables of
certain families of rank, and are found to be of service for the comfort of the more infirm
women. After the inmates are served, if any tea be left, it is taken by the ladies.

We next descended to the kitchen, and there found a young woman at work as a cook, not a Sister,
but one who may be so ere long, if she passes her novitiate successfully. The magazine of crusts
and lumps of bread, of broken meat and cold soups, coffee and tea, which we saw here, was a
curious sight. We were also shewn the pails and baskets in which the Sisters collect these
viands. Two go forth every morning, and make a round of several hours amongst houses where
they are permitted to apply. Meat goes into one compartment, bread into another. A pail of
two divisions keeps a variety of things distinct from each other. Demurely pass the dark pair
along the crowded thoroughfares of the metropolis, objects of momentary curiosity to many that
pass them, but never pausing for a moment on their charitable mission. The only approach to
a smile on our conductress's face, was when she related to us how, on their return one afternoon,
a poor woman who had lost a child, traced them to the door, and made a disturbance there, under
a belief that the cloak of one of them, instead of covering a collection of broken meat, concealed
her infant.

We were curious to trace the feelings which actuated these ladies in devoting themselves to
duties so apt to be repulsive to their class. Viewing the whole matter with a regard to its
humane results, we did not doubt that benevolence was the impulse most concerned, directly
or indirectly, though we of course knew that a religious sanction was essential to the scheme.
In a conversation, however, with our conductress, we could not bring her to admit that mere
humanity had anything to do with it. The basis on which they proceed is simply that text in
which Christ expresses his appreciation of those who give a cup of cold water in his name.
It is professedly nothing more than an example of those charitable societies which arise in
connection with the Catholic faith, and in obedience to its principles, and which require that
entire renunciation of the world which to a Protestant mind appears so objectionable. We have
little doubt, nevertheless, that a certain amount of benevolence is a necessary, though it
may not be a directly acknowledged pre-requisite for the profession; for it is admitted that
some novices find that they have not the vocation, and abandon the attempt; while others, by
the grace of God, are enabled to go on. We cannot regard this idea of 'vocation' as something
entirely apart from the inherent feelings.

So far as we could understand, the Sisters regard more expressly the value of the act of obedience
to the injunction of Christ, than the feeling from which, we would say, the injunction sprang--an
error, as we most humbly think, though one of a kind which we do not feel called upon to discuss
in the presence of results so much in accordance with our own best feelings. We would only
say, that there is something disappointing in finding how much the whole procedure is beheld
by these self-devoting women, as reflecting on their own destinies. It appears that their patients
often grumble both at the food and the attendance which they receive. The Sisters say, they
like to meet an ungrateful old woman, as it tries their humility and forbearance: it makes
the greater merit towards an end in which they themselves are concerned. Now, we would put
all this aside, and think only of the divinely recommended sentiment of the text, as calculated
in some degree to make our life on earth an approach to that of its author. It is really hypercritical,
however, even to intimate these dissenting remarks, especially when our main end is, after
all, merely to bring the public into knowledge of an extraordinary phenomenon in human conduct,
going on in an age which seems generally of so opposite a character.

The Society of Les Petites Soeurs is, it appears, a new one, having originated only a few years
ago in the exertions of an old female servant, who, having saved a little money, thought it
could not be better employed than in succouring the aged and infirm of her own sex. Her idea
was taken up by others of her own order, as well as by women of superior grade. The society
was formed, and establishments were quickly set up in various parts of France. It was only
in 1851 that a detachment of the sisterhood came to England, and settled themselves in Great
Windmill Street, where, whatever be their motives, it must be admitted they contribute in no
slight degree to the alleviation of that vast mass of misery which seems an inseparable element
of large cities. They had, at the time of our visit, forty-seven old persons under their care.

At a subsequent period of the same day, we visited an establishment somewhat similar at Hammersmith--at
least similar in the repulsive character of the duties, though externally much more elegant.
It is housed in a range of good buildings secluded in a garden, and is devoted to the reception
of unfortunate young women who, under penitent feelings, wish to be restored to respectable
society. The Sisterhood of the Good Shepherd, as they are called, entertain in this house nearly
100 such women, who, while undergoing the process of religious and moral regeneration, employ
themselves in washing, so as to contribute to their own support. We saw the whole engaged in
their humble employment, excepting a few who were under training in a school. At all times,
in their bedrooms, at their meals, in their work-rooms, in their play-ground, they are under
the immediate eye of some of the Sisters; but the general treatment includes as much kindness
as is consistent with the object held in view. One trait of this kindness struck us as involving
a remarkable delicacy: there is never, from first to last, one word of reference made to their
former life. They are accepted as so many children coming to school for the first time. Even
their names are sunk out of sight, and new ones applied. The Sisters speak of them as 'the
children.' We learned that Protestant women are welcomed, but are expected not to stand out
in inconvenient dissent from the ordinary rules of the house. We walked into the garden under
the care of the mother-superior, and saw their little burial-ground, marked with low wooden
crosses inscribed to Laura, to Perpetua, to Mary of the Seven Dolours, and other such names,
indicating so many unfortunates who had here found a rest from their troubles. We likewise
visited the chapel, the body of which is arranged for the use of the sisterhood; while a wing
running off at the side of the altar, and concealed from view, is provided with seats for the
penitents. The whole establishment is characterised by remarkably good taste. There is here
a more cheerful tone than in the Great Windmill Street institution. The Sisters spoke, as usual,
of being entirely happy--that unaccountable phenomenon to a Protestant mind.

We do not need to inform the reader, that conventual establishments are not now so thin-sown
in England as they were a few years ago, or that they occasionally draw into their circle individuals
who started in life with very different prospects before them. The whole subject is one worthy
of some inquiry, as a feature of our social state, by no means devoid of political importance;
and it is for this very reason that we draw attention to the subject. Instead of contemptuously
ignoring such things, let them, we say, be made known and investigated in a calm and philosophical
spirit. It is for want of a steady comprehension of facts of the kind here adverted to, that
an illusion is kept up respecting our existing social condition. It is heedlessly said, and
every one repeats the error, that the age is a hard, mechanical one, which shines only in splendid
materialities; but is it compatible with this notion, that there is ten times more earnest
religious feeling of one kind and another than there was thirty years ago; that antiquities,
mediæval literature and architecture, are studied with a zeal hitherto unknown; and that such
mystical writers as Carlyle, Tennyson, and Browning, carry off the palm from all the calm-blooded
old-school men of letters? We rather think it is the most romantic, supra-material age that
has yet been seen. The resurrection of conventual life, in some instances Catholic, in others
Protestant, appears to us as one of the facts of this unexpected reaction, which doubtless
will run its course, and then give place to something else, though not, we trust, till out
of its commixture of good and evil some novelty hopeful for humanity has sprung.

THE LATE EMPEROR OF CHINA.

The announcement of a work by the late Dr Gutzlaff, entitled the Life of Taou-Kwang, late Emperor
of China, with Memoirs of the Court of Peking,[1] excited a good deal of expectation; but for
our own part, now that the book is published, we must confess our disappointment on finding
it not a well-constructed memoir, but a volume bearing the appearance of a collection of materials
put together just as they came to hand, with a view to re-arrangement. Declining health probably
prevented the author from perfecting his plan, and hurried his pages to the press; death has
now removed him from his labours. But a collection of authentic historic facts is valuable,
however loosely embodied; and few writers have enjoyed such favourable opportunities as Dr
Gutzlaff for obtaining them.

Referring first to the personal history of Taou-Kwang, we find that his education was more
Tatar than Chinese. He was one of the numerous grandchildren of the imperial house of Keelung,
but without any expectation of filling the throne, as both his mother and paternal grandmother
were inferior members of the imperial harem. The discipline under which the royal family was
trained, was of the strictest kind. Each of the male children, on completing his sixth year,
was placed with the rest under a course of education superintended by the state. Though eminent
doctors were engaged to instruct them in Chinese literature, yet archery and horsemanship were
considered higher accomplishments, and the most expert masters from Mongolia and Manchooria
trained them in these exercises. They were treated as mere schoolboys, were allotted a very
small income for their maintenance, were closely confined to the apartments assigned to them,
kept in entire ignorance of passing events, and allowed little intercourse with the court--none
with the people. Not till each had passed his twentieth year, was there any relaxation of this
discipline. Taou-Kwang was about this age when his father ascended the throne, in consequence
of the somewhat capricious appointment of Keelung, who abdicated, and soon after died. The
new emperor surrounded himself with buffoons, playactors, and boon-companions. The debaucheries,
jealousies, and cruelties of his reign, remind us of what we have half sceptically read of
Nero and Caligula. But Taou-Kwang kept aloof alike from the frivolities and the intrigues of
his father's court: he seemed to have no desire ungratified so long as he had his bow and arrows,
his horse and matchlock; and even after he was unexpectedly nominated heir to the throne, in
consequence of having personally defended his father from a band of assassins, his new expectations
made no difference in his frugal and modest way of life. The emperor at length died; it did
not clearly appear by what means, and it would perhaps have been troublesome to inquire: the
empress-dowager waived the claims of her son; and Taou-Kwang ascended the throne without bloodshed.
The luxury of the preceding reign now gave place to sobriety and economy; though the usual
ceremonies of the court were strictly observed, they were conducted in the least expensive
manner; and the ruling passion of the monarch soon appeared to be avarice.

Taou-Kwang had no taste either for literature or the arts; and he jumbled together in one large
magazine the beautiful pictures, clocks, and musical instruments accumulated by his ancestors.
To explain and repair these, there had always been Europeans, chiefly Portuguese, in attendance;
and to some of these we have been indebted in times past for memoirs of the court of Peking;
but Taou-Kwang dismissed the last of them. It is believed that an undefined dread of Western
power had much to do with this distaste for the products of its ingenuity.

The only orgies which the emperor seemed desirous of maintaining, were feasts for the promotion
of Manchoo union; on which occasions, the Manchoos assembled to eat meat without rice--in order
to maintain the recollection of their Nimrodic origin--and to drink an intoxicating liquor
made of mare's milk. He had a favourite sequestered abode at no great distance from the capital,
where he had allowed the vegetation to run wild and rank, in order to make it a rural retreat,
instead of an imperial park. All business was excluded from the precincts, and here the emperor
spent much of his time, wandering solitarily on foot among the trees, amusing himself with
the friends of his youth, or sailing, with some of the ladies of his family, along the mimic
rivers.

According to traditional usage, the monarch must perform a pilgrimage to the tombs of his ancestors.
The astronomical, or rather astrological board having ascertained the month, the day, the hour,
even the minute, when the stars would prove propitious, the cavalcade set out. The princes
of the blood, the ladies of the palace, and the favourite ministers of the court, formed part
of the train, which was attended by at least 2000 camels. But even an emperor cannot travel
through waste and desert lands without inconvenience; and though great preparations had been
made beforehand in erecting temporary dwellings where no villages were to be found, yet his
Celestial majesty, with his court, had often to bivouac under tents in the open air. The people
crowded in thousands to see their sovereign--a liberty which, it is well known, may not be
used in Peking, where every one must hasten to hide his head as from the fabled Gorgon. The
ancestral tombs at Mookden, where the imperial manes repose under care of a large garrison,
were at length reached. And now Taou-Kwang became a family man, abandoning the forms of state
and the pomp of empire, and mingling in familiar intercourse with his relatives and attendants.
Such particulars prove that we must receive at very considerable discount the descriptions
hitherto published concerning the extreme sacredness of the emperor's person, the monotonous
routine of ceremony to which he is condemned, and the impossibility of his 'indulging in the
least relaxation from the fatiguing support of his dignity.' Turn we now to public events.

By a series of unexpected conquests, the three largest empires in the world have been gradually
approaching each other's frontiers in Asia. England, from the distant West, has formed military
establishments bordering on Thibet; China, from the remote East, has come to take that country
under its dominion; while Russia, the colossus of Europe, has traversed the ice-fields of Siberia,
and furnished an extensive northern frontier to Mongolia and Manchooria, the Tatar dominions
of China. These powers, by their combined influence, keep within bounds the lawless hordes
of Asia, by whose frequent irruptions in past ages vast regions of more civilised territory
were overwhelmed, and whole nations extirpated. The empire that effects most in this way is
China, and that with the smallest amount of means. Its frontier army is indeed but a burlesque
compared with the well-appointed warriors of England and Russia; yet the Usbecks, Calmuks,
and Kinghis are kept in subjection. The volume before us gives some insight into the mode in
which this is accomplished.

A formidable insurrection, excited partly by religious enthusiasm, broke out in the western
parts of Chinese Tatary in 1826. An able leader was found in Tehangir, a descendant of one
of the former princes. He proclaimed himself the deliverer of the faithful from the infidel
yoke, drew multitudes to his standard, and proceeded victoriously from city to city. The imperial
army sent to quell this insurrection cost on an average L.23,000 of our money per day; and
though victories were, as usual, reported, there was no appearance of the war coming to a termination.
What prowess could not effect was accomplished by bribery. The Mohammedans were themselves
divided into rival factions; and the Karatak ('black caps') were induced by Chinese diplomacy
to turn against the Altktak ('white caps'), to whom Tehangir belonged. He was betrayed, taken
to Peking, and cut to pieces in presence of the emperor; after which, nearly the whole of Turkistan
was laid waste by fire and sword. After twenty more of the rebels had been decapitated, the
emperor enacted new laws for the country, with the view of attaching the people to himself
by the mildness of his rule. The black caps were promoted either to offices of trust in their
own country, or to places of distinction in the Chinese army. When Turkistan again became the
seat of trouble in 1830, the emperor at once sent 4000 camels with 2,000,000 taëls of silver
(about L.700,000) to settle matters, which was considered much wiser than to engage in a long
and expensive war. A similar policy was pursued in 1847, when a formidable rising occurred,
during which Kashgar was taken, and the Manchoo forces routed. The Mohammedan leaders agreed
to accept the emperor's bounty; and on condition of all lives being spared, the imperial troops
were allowed to recapture Kashgar as by military force. A splendid victory was of course announced
in the Peking Gazette; and in the subsequent distribution of rewards, the diplomatist was raised
ten steps above the general.

It is commonly believed that the Celestial Empire dwells in perpetual peace within itself,
as the fruit of that universal spirit of subordination and filial obedience which is the great
object of all its institutions. Nothing, however, can be more erroneous. Not only do the restless
Tatars frequently break into revolt, but in China itself, the extortions of the mandarins,
or the occurrence of famine, frequently excites a village, a city, or even a large district
to rebellion; and there are cases of an infuriated population actually broiling their magistrates
over a slow fire. The usual policy of Taou-Kwang in all such cases was to send an army, but
at the same time to set the leaders at loggerheads by administering suitable bribes, and inducing
them to betray each other. In this manner, a civil war can be brought to a speedy conclusion;
and then the cruelty of the victorious government knows no bounds. 'The treatment of political
prisoners,' says our author, 'is really so shocking as to be incredible, if one had not been
an eye-witness of these inhuman deeds.'

The volume affords us some amusing particulars connected with the collision with England. When
the British fleet was expected in the Chinese waters, the imperial orders were, to 'listen
to no proposals, but fire on the ships, and annihilate them at once.' To the great emperor,
it would have appeared quite ridiculous to condescend to negotiation with so inferior a power
as Britain: he had given his orders; these must be obeyed; and his minister had himself written
a letter to Queen Victoria, that she might not plead ignorance of the high behests of his Celestial
majesty. It was not till the fleet appeared at the mouth of the Pei-Ho, and the capital was
in danger, that Taou-Kwang deigned to seek an accommodation by means of his smooth-tongued
minister Keshen, who negotiated an armistice, promising that all wrongs would be redressed
by a commission appointed to meet the British representatives at Canton. But as soon as the
fleet turned southward, the danger was considered visionary; and again the cry arose to punish
the insolence of the Western barbarians, as the English were politely designated. The empress-dowager,
who was never before known to meddle with state affairs, told her son that 'the English and
Chinese could not co-exist under the canopy of heaven; that the Celestial Empire must assert
its superiority over these barbarian robbers; and that unless he waged war to their utter extermination,
his ancestors would never acknowledge him in Hades.' Keshen was now denounced as a traitor
to his country for having come to any terms; he was sentenced to death; and though his execution
was deferred, yet his whole property, amounting in silver alone to the value of three millions
sterling, was confiscated; his very wives were sold by auction; and he who had been one of
the richest men in the empire, had not the means of buying himself a jacket.

Elepoo, the imperial commissioner at Ning-poo, opposite Chusan, was also denounced. His crime
was, that he had, according to the terms of the truce, surrendered the English prisoners, notwithstanding
the counter-orders he had received to send them to Peking as trophies of victory, to be cut
to pieces according to custom. Among them was a captain's wife, who had been wrecked, and had
thus fallen into his power. A happy thought struck some of the mandarins--that she might be
passed off as the sister of the barbarian Queen. She was accordingly put into a cage, and carried
about for exhibition; but Elepoo delivered her from the excruciating death she would have suffered
as Queen Victoria's sister, and restored her to her countrymen. The whole cabinet was indignant;
he was summoned to appear immediately before his exasperated sovereign, and sentenced to transportation
to the deserts of Manchooria.

When it came to fighting in earnest, and there was for the Chinese, as we know, nothing but
utter defeat, still there was no report sent to court but of victory. But as million after
million of taëls vanished, and grandee after grandee disappeared, the emperor was obliged to
be informed of the real state of affairs, and his wrath knew no bounds. In vain he threatened
utter destruction to the barbarians, if they did not instantly leave the coasts; in vain called
on the people to arm themselves en masse, and protect their lives and property: no one stirred,
and the emperor resorted to new counsellors for new plans of defence. It was now gravely proposed,
to build a fleet three times as powerful as that of the British, and station it near Singapore
and Anjeer, to intercept the British vessels ere they reached China, and annihilate their fleet
piecemeal. The forests were to be felled to supply materials: the only thing wanting was some
English men-of-war, to serve as models. Again, Hou-chunn, the Marshal Ney of China, was ready
to face the whole British fleet if he had but a steamer to carry 6000 men, half divers, half
gunners; the divers would jump into the water, and sink the English ships by boring large holes
in them, while the gunners would keep up an incessant fire. Striking as this plan appeared,
the emperor doubted its practicability. Imitation steamships had been attempted already; but
though they looked quite like the foreign ones, they would not move: the paddles had to be
turned like a treadmill. Another great suggestion, was to march 300,000 men right through the
Russian territories to London, and put a stop to all further operations by crushing the English
at home!

Meanwhile, the British arms prevailed; and when the fleet reached the first bend in the Yang-tse-kiang,
there happened a solar eclipse; it was impossible not to see that the sun of China had set
for ever!

When Taou-Kwang found that the danger actually threatened his throne and his person, he hastily
packed up his effects, and prepared to fly to some of the interior provinces; but being assured
that peace might yet be obtained, he gave carte blanche for its conclusion. 'One can form no
adequate idea,' says Dr Gutzlaff, 'of the utter amazement of the Chinese on perceiving that
the "son of heaven" was not invincible; and that he was even fallible; a revulsion of feeling
took place, such as had never been known before; and the political supremacy which China had
so proudly asserted, was humbled in the dust.'

As soon as peace was concluded, the first care of Taou-Kwang was to punish the champions who
had clamoured for war, but proved cowards in the fight. Some had already died of grief, some
had committed suicide, and others had fled. But those who remained within the monarch's grasp,
besides many civil and military officers who had been compelled to surrender their cities,
were treated with merciless severity. Keshen's extreme sentence was reversed, and he was made
pipe-bearer to the emperor.

A new era had now commenced. It had been proved to a demonstration, that the mandarins were
common mortals, and that the great emperor did not sway the whole world. Democratic assemblies
rose in every part of the land; the people must be consulted where their happiness was concerned;
the citizens and peasants turned politicians; and if in any case remonstrance failed, they
proceeded, en masse, to the government offices, and carried by force what was denied to courtesy.
The emperor learning these movements, instantly took the popular side; laid all the blame on
the mandarins, and superseded those who had given offence. The taxes which had been refused,
he remitted as an act of sovereign favour; and the laws were relaxed--often to the injury of
well-disposed citizens. The people were again and again termed the dear children of the emperor,
and every member of the cabinet found his best interest in advocating popular measures.

The rest of Taou-Kwang's reign was spent chiefly in endeavours to improve his naval and military
forces, and in fruitless struggles to replenish the exhausted treasury of the state. His own,
meanwhile, was full to overflowing, having received immense accessions from the confiscated
property of his unsuccessful generals and degraded ministers. He died on the 25th of February
1850, aged sixty-nine. In his will, there appears the following notice of the English war:
'The little fools beyond the Western Ocean were chastised and quelled by our troops, and peace
was soon made; but we presumed not to vaunt our martial powers.'

FOOTNOTES:

[1] London: Smith, Elder, & Co.: 1852.

A GLIMPSE OF BALLYVOURNEY.

Among the various plans that have been suggested for ameliorating the condition of Ireland,
and improving the moral and social status of her people, I know of few better calculated to
produce these beneficial results than that of opening good lines of road through wild and uncultivated
districts, and by this means facilitating the intercourse between the inhabitants of almost
unknown regions and those of more advanced and enlightened districts. Where this has been done,
in conjunction with other local improvements, a moral regeneration has taken place that could
scarcely be credited by those who have not witnessed the effect. In proof of what I say, I
will endeavour to give a short account of a journey I made last summer from Cork to the far-famed
Lakes of Killarney. I had performed the same journey several years before; but I now travelled,
after passing Macroom, by a road that had been made since my last visit, through Ballyvourney,
a wild and mountainous district, formerly impassable. The territorial improvements there are
now matter of history, it having been proved before the Commissioners of Land Inquiry, that
land, valued at 3s. 9d. per acre, had been made permanently worth L.4 per acre by a small outlay,
which, with all expenses, rent, and interest of money, was repaid in three years.

The land had been deep turf (peat), and all but useless for agricultural purposes. By drainage,
cultivation, and irrigation, however, it was made to produce the finest meadow grass, sold
annually by public auction for from L.4 to L.6 per acre; and sometimes it yielded a second,
and even a third crop. The great secret of this improvement was, that the then proprietor gave
his steward, who was likewise his relation, a permanent interest in his outlay, by letting
him the land on lease for ever. In consequence of his doing so, the very worst land, judging
by the surface, has been made equal in value to town fields; and in the progress of this work,
the wildest race perhaps in the world, have now become a civilised and industrious people.
Mr C---- has sold his interest in the improvements for L.10,000, calculated, on the average
profit of past years, at twenty years' purchase.

When he first undertook the work, he had every difficulty to contend with: the people were
unused to labour, and so wild and savage, that no stranger dared to settle among them. I was
told that when the first land-steward was seen at the chapel in a dress which denoted him to
be a stranger, he heard a man behind him telling another in Irish--which he supposed to be
unknown to the stranger--the part of his neck in which he would plant a deadly wound before
he got home. The steward fortunately understood the native tongue, and quitting the chapel
before the service was over, he fled from the dangerous place.

The present civilisation and industrious habits of the people, compared with their barbarism
thirty years ago, shews that the Irish character, when properly directed, is as capable of
advancement as any other in the world. There was at that time no road into or out of Ballyvourney:
it was in this respect like the Happy Valley. The passes are yet in existence, and are fearful
to look at, where a gentleman from Kenmare, on his journeys to Cork, used to bring his chariot,
accompanied by a number of footmen, and unharnessing the horses, let it down by ropes from
the top of the precipice. There is another spot of the kind on the road from Killarney to Cahersiveen
and Valentia, where on the side of the Hill of Droum, nearly precipitous from the sea, is the
track-mark of the carriage-road, if such it can be called, where the vehicle used to be supported
and dragged by men. A new road has since been made there: the Atlantic Ocean is so directly
beneath, that a passenger may drop a stone into it as he drives along; while Droum Hill stands
perpendicularly above him. It is a most magnificent scene; terminating with the ruins of Daniel
O'Connell's birthplace. Visitors to Ireland usually conclude their journey at Killarney; but
if they would continue their route to Caragh Lake, Blackstone, Lady Headley's improvements,
and go on through the Pass of Droum to Valentia and Cahersiveen, they would discover that Killarney
is only the opening to a scene of grandeur and sublimity.

