Now Jane tells the secret, and what is it? It turns out to be just nothing at all, and there
is no good reason why every body should'nt know it. It is this--"Lizzy Smith is going to have
a new bonnet, trimmed with pink ribbon and flowers inside." Anna thinks no more of her solemn
promise, and the first school-mate she meets, she opens the secret, with a solemn injunction
for her not to tell. By and by the secret is all out among the girls--the promises are all
broken. Now, children, remember your word--keep it true, and never make a promise which you
do not intend to keep, and always avoid telling foolish secrets.

AGNES AND THE MOUSE.

One brilliant Christmas day, two little girls were walking towards a neighboring village, when
they observed a little creature walking about the road. "Surely," said Mary, "it is a large
mouse;" and it did not seem to be afraid, so they thought from its tameness, it must be hungry.
"Poor little thing," said Agnes, "I wish I had something to give you." She took a few almonds
from her pocket and went gently along towards the mouse and put it close by its side. The mouse
began to nibble, and soon finished it. Agnes then put down two or three more, and left the
mouse to eat its Christmas dinner. I think you would have enjoyed seeing the mouse eating the
almonds. I hope you will always be kind to poor dumb animals. I have seen children who were
cruel to dumb animals. This is very wrong, and such children will never be respected, nor can
they expect to be befriended.

THE TWO ROBINS.

A few summers ago I was sitting on a garden seat, beneath a fruit tree, where the works of
nature look very beautiful. Very soon I heard a strange noise among the highest branches of
the tree over my head. The sound was very curious, and I began to look for the cause. I shook
one of the lower branches within my reach, and very soon I discovered two birds engaged in
fighting; and they seemed to gradually descend towards the ground. They came down lower and
lower, tumbling over one another, and fighting with each other. They soon reached the lowest
branch, and at last came to the ground very near me. It was with some difficulty that I parted
them; and when I held one of them in each of my hands, they tried to get away, not because
they were afraid of me but because they would resume the conflict. They were two young robins,
and I never before thought that the robin had such a bad spirit in its breast. Lest they should
get to fighting again, I let one go, and kept the other housed up for several days, so that
they would not have much chance of coming together again.

Now, children, these two little robins woke in the morning very cheerful, and appeared very
happy as they sat on the branch of the tree, singing their morning songs. But how soon they
changed their notes. You would have been sorry to have seen the birds trying to hurt each other.

If children quarrel, or in any degree show an unkind temper, they appear very unlovely, and
forget that God, who made them, and gives them many blessings, disapproves of their conduct.
Never quarrel, but remember how pleasant it is for children to love each other, and to try
to do each other good.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every hour is worth at least a good thought, a good wish, a good endeavor.--Clarendon.

THE PLEASANT SAIL.

Down by the sea-coast is the pleasant town of Saco, where Mr. Aimes has resided for many years.
Once a year he had all his little nephews and nieces visit him. It was their holiday, and they
would think and talk about the visit for a long time previous to going there. Their uncle took
much pleasure in making them happy as possible while they were with him. He owned a pleasure
sail boat which he always kept in good order. On this occasion he had it all clean and prepared
for the young friends, as he knew they lotted much on having a sail. As his boat was small,
he took part of them at a time and went out with them himself, a short distance, and sailed
around the island, and returned. In the picture you see them just going out, with their uncle
at the helm, while three of the nephews are on the beach enjoying the scene.

But I must tell you children to be very careful when you go on the water to sail. There are
some things which it is necessary for you to know, as a great many accidents occur on the water
for the want of right management. When you go to sail, be sure and have persons with you who
understand all about a boat, and how to manage in the time of a squall. Always keep your seats
in the boat, and not be running about in it. Never get to rocking a boat in the water. A great
many people have lost their lives by so doing. Sailing on the water may be very pleasant and
agreeable to you if you go with those who understand all about the harbor, and are skilled
in guiding the boat on the dangerous sea.

THE SAILOR BOY.

Yarmouth is the principal trade seaport town in the county of Norfolk. Fishermen reside in
the towns and villages around, and among the number was a poor man and his wife; they had an
only son, and when ten years old his father died. The poor widow, in the death of her husband,
lost the means of support. After some time she said to her boy, "Johnny, I do not see how I
shall support you." "Then, mother, I will go to sea," he replied. His mother was loth to part
with Johnny, for he was a good son and was very kind to her. But she at last consented on his
going to sea.

John began to make preparations. One day he went down to the beach hoping to find a chance
among some of the captains to sail. He went to the owner of one and asked if he wanted a boy.
"No," he abruptly replied, "I have boys enough." He tried a second but without success. John
now began to weep. After some time he saw on the quay the captain of a trading vessel to St.
Petersburg, and John asked him if "a boy was wanted." "Oh, yes," said the captain, "but I never
take a boy or a man without a character." John had a Testament among his things, which he took
out and said to the captain, "I suppose this won't do." The captain took it, and on opening
the first page, saw written, "John Read, given as a reward for his good behavior and diligence
in learning, at the Sabbath School." The captain said, "Yes, my boy, this will do; I would
rather have this recommendation than any other," adding, "you may go on board directly." John's
heart leaped for joy, as, with his bundle under his arm, he jumped on board the vessel.

The vessel was soon under weigh, and for some time the sky was bright, and the wind was fair.
When they reached the Baltic Sea a storm came on, the wind raged furiously, all hands were
employed to save the vessel. But the storm increased, and the captain thought all would be
lost. While things were in this state the little sailor boy was missing. One of the crew told
the captain he was down in the cabin. When sent for he came up with his Testament in his hand
and asked the captain if he might read. His request was granted. He then knelt down and read
the sixtieth and sixty-first Psalms. While he was reading the wind began to abate, (the storms
in the Baltic abate as suddenly as they come on.) The captain was much moved, and said he believed
the boy's reading was heard in Heaven.

THE BRACELET;

OR, HONESTY REWARDED.

