Above the middle porch and the southward tower, is the platform, very spacious and surrounded
by a handsome balustrade; on it is built a small house for the guardians charged to strike
the hours and ring the alarm bell in case of fire. From the top of this platform one enjoys
a magnificent view; the wonderful panorama that unfolds itself from there, has been drawn with
as much taste as accuracy by Mr. Frederic Piton, a zealous amateur of our local history. Towards
the North, in the direction of the Wacken, an island near Strasburg, is seen on the horizon
the mountain of the Pigeonnier (Scherhol in German), at the foot of which lies Wissemburg;
to its right rise the peaks crowned by the ruins of Gutenberg and Trifels, and the famous Geisberg
taken by storm in the war of 1870. On the other side of the Rhine, whose majestic stream the
eye can easily trace, the long range of the mountains of the Black Forest limits the horizon.
The first peak that is seen is that of the Eichelberg, at the opening of the valley of the
Murg; then comes the Fremersberg, the Mount-Mercury, the mountain with the ruins of Yburg;
all these names are known to those who have visited Baden. Beyond these summits is the high
level ground of the Hornisgründe, on the other side of which is seen, in the midst of a forest,
the dark lake named Mummelsee. Farther on, eastward, beyond the arsenal of Strasburg and the
village of Kehl, you observe the castle of Schauenburg, near Oberkirch, where the valley of
the Rench begins. After gliding over the ruin of Fürsteneck and Schauenburg, the eye rests
on the stately buildings of Ortenberg, rebuilt after the middle age architecture, at the entrance
of the valley of the Kinzig. Directing your eye more towards the South, you discover the mountains
of Triberg, and close to them those of Lahr; then comes the loftiest peak of the Black Forest,
the Feldberg, 1494 metres high. Farther on the eye may discover (if tine) the Ballon and the
Blauen, behind the hills of the Kaiserstuhl; thence this ridge of mountains is lost sight of.
In the plain, between the Rhine and the Vosges, a double row of poplars points out the Canal
(from the Rhone to the Rhine). The first peak seen in the range of the Vosges towards the South-East
is the Ballon of Sultz, 993 metres high; the eye then discovers in a western direction the
ruins of the three castles of Egisheim, Haut-Hattstatt and Landsberg, the top of the Ballon
of Gebwiller, 1426 metres high the Hoheneck, the ruins of the old castles of Kientzheim, Rappoltstein,
Hoh- (High) K[oe]nigsburg, Ortenburg, Bernstein, Frankenburg and the summits of the Bressoir
and Ungersberg. Looking in the direction of Saint-Thomas' church, at one glance the eye overlooks
the country of the old Hohenburg, so picturesque and so rich in monuments and historical associations:
the castle of Landsberg, the rock of the Mænnelstein, the convent of Sainte-Odile, behind which
rises the level ground of the Champ-du-Feu; further on to the right, are the ruins of Girbaden,
the peaks of the Donon and Schneeberg. Here the mountains are by degrees lost from sight in
the distance; on the horizon one may however distinguish the towers of the castles of Geroldseck
and Hoh- (High) Barr, in the vicinity of Zabern; then nothing more is seen but meadows, forests,
fields, from the centre of which you see now and then the modest church-steeples of the numerous
villages that cover the fine plain of Alsacia.

On the North side stands a tower of an octangular form, supporting the spire. This tower consists,
as it were, but of strong buttresses adorned with small columns and statues, and having large
apertures in which very high windows are set and take nearly the whole breadth on the four
sides, where they are. Among the statues that face the platform, one must be noticed as being,
according to tradition, that of Erwin of Steinbach. In the interior of this tower are the bells
that strike the hours, that which is called the gates' bell (Thorglocke)[1] and also a clock
made in 1786 by two clockmakers of Strasburg, Maybaum father and son. An inscription over the
door leading to the platform recalls to mind the earthquake of 1728, so violent that the water
was raised from the reservoirs and thrown to a distance of eighteen feet[2]. In front of the
four principal sides of the octagon tower are turrets with winding stairs, and consisting but
of a series of windows that rise in a spiral form. These elegant turrets seem hardly to rest
on any thing; besides the gallery that covers them, they communicate with the principal tower
but by means of flat stones that serve as an entrance into a gallery of the interior of the
arch-roof, and which lie at a height of almost thirty metres. According to the old drawings,
these turrets should have been surmounted by pyramidal spires. They terminate in a gallery
that surrounds the tower, from whence one enjoys a most admirable view. It is from that spot
that rises the spire (flèche), which is an octangular pyramid of an extraordinary boldness,
offering to the astonished gazer nothing of a massive construction. Six successive tiers of
little turrets are thus pyramidically placed one above the other[3]. Eight winding stair-cases,
narrow and of rich open carvings, lead the visitor to a massive spot commonly called the lantern;
higher up is the crown[4], which is not reached without danger, by means of steps placed outside,
and with no other protection than the wall to which they are fastened; above another widened
place, called the rose, the spire is nothing but a column whence jut out horizontal branches
to give it the aspect of a cross. The monument terminates in a knob being 0m .460 in diameter
and to which ever since 1835 a lightning-conductor has been adapted; one may climb there but
with the aid of iron bars to which you must cling with hands and feet. The total height of
this stately building is 142m.

  [1] So called because it was rung morning and night before the
  opening and closing of the city gates.

  [2] In the interior of this tower and on the balustrade are seen
  a great many names of foreigners who have visited the Cathedral.
  Among these names are some of celebrated persons, as G[oe]the,
  Herder, etc.

  [3] Above the first tier of the turrets is seen around the spire
  (flèche) the following inscription:

      Christus nos revocat. Christus gratis donat.
       Christus semper regnat. Christus imperat.
       Christus rex superat. Christus triumphat.
       Maria glorificat. Christus coronat.

  [4] Besides some other inscriptions on the spire, you read round
  the first gallery of the crown these words:

      Jesus Christus verbum caro factum est,
       Jesus Christus, et habitavit in nobis,
       Jesus Christus, et vidimus gloriam ejus,
       Jesus Christus, gloriam quasi unigeniti a Patre.

                                (S. John. 1. 14.)

The nave, decked with a copper roof, abounds no less in decoration than the front. It has large
ogive windows adorned with rosaces; at the place where the buttresses, equally carved with
rosaces, join the counterforts or pillars, they have at their tops fine clochetoons; a great
many statues and grotesque figures of heads complete the ornaments of this part of the church.
Two galleries, one under the windows, the other below the clochetoons of the counterforts,
lead from the towers to the cross-aisle. This, as we have already said, is still byzantine
in several parts of it. The southern porch, formed by two semi-circular doors made evidently
at one of the remotest periods of the Cathedral, is adorned with bas-reliefs and statues; according
to tradition, it is reported that two of these statues are the work of Sabina of Steinbach.
One is a woman in a triumphal posture holding in her hands a communion cup and a cross; she
is the symbol of the church that vanquished the synagogue; the other, a symbol of the latter,
is a woman looking down, blindfolded and leaning with pain on a broken spear, whilst the laws
of the twelve tables drop from her left hand. On the parvis before this porch is erected, on
the left, the statue of Sabina herself, and on the right, the statue of Erwin of Steinbach,
both due to the chisel of Mr. Grass.

The wall of the upper tier has openings for several windows of an ogive form, above which a
gallery runs all along; two round-windows take up the third tier. The northern portion of the
cross-aisle has more generally preserved the byzantine manner than that we have just spoken
of; however, this intermixture with the gothic style denounces latter renovations. The ancient
porch, the remains of very old constructions, is masked by a fore-front that belongs to the
last period of the gothic art, and which was built in 1494 by James of Landshut; this new porch
(porch of St. Laurence), though handsome in its ensemble, is wanting in that noble simplicity
and purity of taste that distinguishes the other parts of the Cathedral; it is overloaded with
ornaments, and its statues have a stiffness that is found nowhere else.

The octangular dome over the chancel is also of the byzantine era; however, it has been renewed
in several parts. In the place of the deformed cupola, destroyed by the fire of 1870, a handsome
pyramid has been erected in the year 1878, after the plans of Mr. Klotz, architect of the Cathedral.

Up to 1772 the lower part of the lateral fronts of the church was disfigured by paltry decayed
houses; the same year they were pulled down and in their places the present porticos were built,
which are not wanting in elegance: the shops and stalls that formerly obstructed in so disgraceful
a manner the access to the nave, have also disappeared; and the porches have been repaired
with a great amount of good taste.

The view of the interior of the nave leaves a deep impression. It is mysteriously lighted by
magnificent painted windows, and supported on each side by seven large pillars, composed of
round agglomerated columns. The two first of these pillars, more gigantic than the rest, support
also the towers; the total elevation of the upper arch is more than 31 metres. The interior
front, over the principal porch, is adorned with a beautiful sculptured round-window; between
this and the grand rose-window is a glass gallery. Above the arches that unite the pillars
on both sides of the nave and all along is a fine gothic gallery, serving as a basis to large
windows, similar to those of the lower sides of the church. The lower part of the wall of the
latter is ornamented with a range of small columns, joined together by og-arches. The magnificent
windows of this church represent subjects and personages of Scripture and Legend. Among the
artists who have painted these windows, the oldest one known, is master John of Kirchheim;
those made after his drawings were put up in 1348; there is no doubt that many of his works
still adorn the Cathedral. The names of John Markgraf, James Vischer and the brothers Link
were mentioned later. At the latter part of the eighteenth century John Daniel Danegger painted
also some, which, however, owing to their mediocrity, have since been removed. For some years
past they have undergone considerable repair under the direction of artists of talent and well
acquainted with the science of antiquities. The painted windows of the upper galleries of the
nave represent the seventy four ancestors of Jesus Christ; higher up are the images of saints
and martyrs; in the right aisle, over the vestry, is seen the gigantic figure of saint Christopher:
on the South side, of the six windows that have each sixteen divisions, the four first contain
some scenes from the history of the Bible; the two last, the day of Judgment and the celestial
Jerusalem. On the North side, in an equal number of windows, you see the birth of Jesus Christ,
the wise men, and the portraits of several German emperors; the last of these windows represents
a series of the oldest events in Scripture. The effect produced by these beautiful windows
is greatly increased since they had the happy idea to wash away the daubing with which, about
thirty years ago, they had besmeared the inner walls of the Cathedral; by these means the bare
part of the wall, a fine stone of a rosy tint, which served for the construction of the church,
is rendered visible; it was a measure that bespoke much good taste and knowledge of the christian
art.

On the left side of the nave is fixed the organ which extends up to the superior arch. It is
a master-piece of work of Andrew Silbermann, who was one of the most able organ-builders of
his time and who built it in 1704. Pierced by a shell during the bombardment of 1870, this
organ of Silbermann has been restored by a distinguished organ builder of our city.

On the same side, at the fifth pillar, stands the pulpit, erected in 1486 by John Hammerer,
by order of the magistrate, for the celebrated preacher Geiler of Kaysersberg. This work of
sculpture, remarkably delicate, is adorned with nearly fifty little statues, the meaning of
which is easy to understand. The canopy is of a modern style, and was made in 1824 to replace
a more ancient one, perhaps the first erected in 1617, which has been handed down to us as
a most simple piece of workmanship, and made of lime-wood. At the foot of the stairs are two
figures, a man in the posture of rest and a woman praying; we may justly suppose that they
are meant for the maker of the pulpit and his wife.

The chancel is joined to the nave by two pillars of very large dimensions and whose tops belong
to one of the constructions anterior to the gothic order. The magnificent lobby built by Erwin
of Steinbach was taken down to make room for the taste prevailing in the seventeenth century;
it was demolished in 1682. Two high and circular columns support the cupola of the chancel
and separate it from its two aisles; in the centre of each of the latter stand also columns
to sustain the arch-roofs; that of the northern part is round, whilst the column of the southern
aisle is composed of a collection of very slender pillars, probably of a later construction;
this long, thin and gracious column bears in its corners some statues, the fineness and gracefulness
of which recall to mind the work of Sabina of Steinbach. Beneath are the four Evangelists;
above four angels holding trumpets, and uppermost the Saviour and three angels with the implements
of the Saviour's passion in their hands; it is called the angel's column or Erwin's column.
On the large pillar which unites the nave to the chancel, are two inscriptions in commemoration
of the famous preacher Geiler of Kaysersberg who, for many years, displayed his eloquence from
the pulpit of the Cathedral. In this same aisle is erected the statue of bishop Wernher, meditating
the design of the church laid before him. Opposite this statue, the work of Mr. Friderich,
is the celebrated.

Astronomical Clock.

As early as 1352 an astronomical clock was begun under bishop Berthold of Bucheck, and finished
two years after by an unknown artist, in the time of John of Lichtenberg. It was fixed to the
wall facing the present one. The frame-work of that first clock was all of wood; the stones
that formed its basis are to this day seen projecting from the wall. It was divided into three
parts; the lower part contained a universal calendar; in the middle was an astrolabe, and in
the superior division were seen the three wise men and the Virgin Mary carved in wood; the
wise men bent every hour before the Virgin, by means of a peculiar mechanism, which at the
same time put in motion a chime of harmonious sounds and a cock crowing and flapping his wings.

The exact time at which this clock, which in the fourteenth century must have been a wonderful
piece of workmanship, and was called the clock of the three sages, ceased going, is not known:
it had been stopped for a long time, when in 1547 the magistrate of the town decided on having
another made and putting it opposite the old one, in the very place the clock now occupies.
Three distinguished mathematicians furnished the plan and superintended the execution of it:
they were Dr Michel Herr, Christian Herlin, professor of mathematics at the school of Strasburg,
and Nicholas Prugner, who, after preaching the reformation at Mulhouse and at Benfeld, occupied
himself at Strasburg with mechanics and astrology. These three learned men began this work,
but did not terminate it; it was resumed in the year 1570 by a pupil of Herlin, named Conrad
Dasypodius of Strasburg, where he was a professor of mathematics. Dasypodius drew the design
of the clock, but its execution was confided to two skilful mechanics of Schaffhouse, the brothers
Isaac and Josiah Habrecht; Tobias Stimmer, also of Schaffhouse, had the charge of the paintings.
This master-piece of the mechanical art of the sixteenth century was completed in 1574; it
ceased going in 1789. As the exterior distribution of the present clock is nearly the same
as that of the old clock, we shall abstain from describing the latter. In 1836 the corporation
of the town of Strasburg adopted the resolution of causing this curious monument to be repaired.
To Mr. Schwilgué, a distinguished mechanician of Strasburg, his native place, this remarkable
work was entrusted; he began it the 24th of June 1838 and finished it at the end of 1842.

It is one of the most beautiful pieces of workmanship of our age; its mechanism is entirely
new and in accordance with the present state of the science of astronomy, which as is well
known, has attained a very high degree of certainty and exactness. Mr. Schwilgué has not made
use of any of the pieces of the old clock, which are deposited in the chapel of the [OE]uvre-Notre-Dame;
by comparing them with the pieces composing the new clock, one may judge of the progress of
science and of the talents of the modern artist. M. Schwilgué preserved of the former clock
only its fine case, the paintings and ornaments of which were carefully repaired. In this he
had many difficulties to overcome, as well for the proper arrangement of this mechanism and
lodging it in a space that was often very limited, as for making the old signs or indications
accord with the movements of the clockwork. Of these many were marked only in painting, and
must have been renewed after a certain time, as for instance those for the eclipses, which
now by a most ingenious mechanical combination will henceforth last for ever. The little statues
which hitherto had no articulation, are now moveable; the twelve Apostles have been added to
the former number of them. The figure of Death, formerly on the same level with that of Jesus-Christ,
is now placed in the centre of figures representing the four ages of life and striking the
quarters of hours; the idea of assigning this place to the image of death is assuredly a more
rational and finer one than that which prevailed in the old distribution of the figures. Childhood
strikes the first quarter; Youth the second; Manhood the third, and Old Age the last; the first
stroke of each quarter is struck by one of the two genii seated above the perpetual calendar;
the four ages strike the second. Whilst death strikes the hours, the second of these genii
turns over the hourglass that he holds in his hand. The image of the Saviour stands now on
a higher ground; at the hour of noon the twelve Apostles pass bowing before him; he lifts up
his hand to bless them, and during that time, a cock, whose motions and voice imitate nature,
flaps his wings and crows three times.

Mr. Schwilgué has altered the old calendar into a perpetual one with the addition of the feasts
that vary, according to their connexion with Easter or Advent Sundays. The dial, nine metres
in circumference, is subject to a revolution of 365 or 366 days, according as the case may
be. Mr. Schwilgué has even indicated the suppression of the secular bissextile days. He has
moreover enriched his work by adding to it an ecclesiastic compute with all its indications;
an orrery after the Copernican system, representing the mean tropical revolutions of each of
the planets visible to the naked eye, the phases of the moon, the eclipses of the sun and moon,
calculated for ever; the true time and the sideral time; a new celestial globe with the procession
of the equinoxes, solar and lunary equations for the reduction of the mean geocentric ascension
and declension of the sun and moon at true times and places. A dial placed without the church
and showing the hours and days, is put in motion by the same mechanism of the clockwork.

The camerated roof of the back part of the chancel was formerly covered with paintings executed
in 1686 representing Dooms-day. A few paintings only adorned till now the interior of the Cathedral,
among which the most remarkable oil-paintings, executed by artists of Strasburg, are: the Shepherd's
Adoration, by Guerin, the Laying in the tomb, by Klein; the Ascension, by Heim, and some others.
In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the chancel was several times and in different
ways enlarged and disfigured by ornaments little correspondent with the elegance and grandeur
of the gothic order. Tribunes, stairs and wainscots that formed a strange contrast with the
rest of the edifice were added. The altar, adorned in 1501, with fine figures carved in wood
by Master Nicholas of Haguenau, was changed in 1685 by order of bishop William Egon of Fürstenberg;
that new altar, covered with a baldachin, was destroyed by fire, and in 1765 the present one,
which has nothing in its form worthy of notice, was erected. Great repairs were begun some
years ago under the direction of the city corporation, struck, as every body was, by the great
disproportion between the chancel and nave. It was resolved to restore the chancel to its primitive
form and arrangement, and thus to reestablish the due proportions between that part and the
rest of this magnificent church. This great labour is now finished. Their natural complement,
as required by the style of this part of the pile and its extensive fronts and arch-roofs,
is the execution of a certain number of monumental paintings, intrusted to two distinguished
artists, Prof. Steinle, Director of Städel's Institute in Frankfort a/M. and the historical
painter Steinheil in Paris, a native Alsacian. The former is charged with the execution of
the fresco-paintings in the chancel and lateral naves, whilst the latter undertook the reestablishment
of the paintings that represent the Dooms-day on the upper wall of the chancel, in front of
the great nave. Both works, begun in 1876, came in sight for the visitors of the Cathedral,
at the end of 1878.

In restoring to this part of the edifice its former appearance, it has highly augmented the
effect produced on the inward aspect of the Cathedral; now also may be decided the question,
hitherto doubtful, of the exact time at which the chancel was built; with certainty, it may
already be said, that it was not erected, as was often affirmed, in the time of the emperor
Charlemain.

In removing the superfetations that had taken place during these two last centuries, and in
reestablishing the architectural forms that the wretched style then prevailing had concealed,
a succession of large ogive arches of an admirable and powerful proportion which form the inferior
part of the Apsis, and support a gallery serving as a basis to the upper story, have come to
light. On this story, which is separated from the cul-de-four (spherical vault) by a single
moulding, are three large ogive windows, the middle one of which is of colossal dimensions,
and between the columns below are in a symmetrical manner placed, on each side, the doors of
the treasury and chapter-room, and in the centre lies the bishop's throne, the niched vault
of which is still more richly decorated; between the intermedial arches are the staircase doors
leading to the gallery.

The Apsis is not very deep and terminates by a segment, cut out of a masonry work outwardly
square; entirely devoted to the sanctuary, it only contains the high-altar, the twenty four
stalls of the chapter and a necessary room to perform divine worship. In 1878 an accompanying
organ has been erected on the left side. This beautiful instrument, made by Mr. Merklin, the
skilful organ-builder of Lyons, is a masterpiece of art and taste that enhances indeed the
chancel of the Cathedral. In front and a few steps lower down lies the chancel, destined to
the inferior clergy and choristers. This chancel surmounted by a large octagonal cupola, the
external part of which was struck by lightning in 1759, is placed at the intersection of the
transepts and nave; open and lighted on all sides, one can admire the boldness and majesty
of the columns and basis that support the arched roofs. The cripta or subterranean place, extending
under the whole length of the chancel, is worthy of notice; it has also been recently restored.
It is of an older order than the constructions of Erwin of Steinbach; it is perhaps the remainder
of the edifice erected by bishop Werner, at the beginning of the eleventh century; the shape
of the pillars, their cubical tops or chapters, the arches exclusively semi-circular, bring
us back to those times. This crypta, that remained unimpaired during all the changes which
the Cathedral must have undergone in the course of so many centuries, forms a nave with two
arch-vaults and a round chancel. All along the walls of the nave are stone benches. Four of
the inner pillars have still hinges affixed to them which prove that this portion of the crypta
could be closed by a double door. At its entrance is what is called the holy tomb, a very ancient
group of figures representing Jesus Christ and his disciples on the mount of Olives, at the
moment when the soldiers are going to seize the Lord: this group comes from the chapel of the
Augustines, erected in 1378; it was placed in the crypta in 1683.

The most ancient of the present chapels of the Cathedral is that of Saint-Andrew, in the South
aisle of the chancel; it is remarkable for the details of its columns and for its ornaments
of a very old style; it contains the tombs of several bishops, the oldest of which is that
of Henry of Hasenburg, who died in 1190. Behind the North aisle of the chancel, is Saint-John
the Baptist's chapel, also very old, and being now lower than the pavement of the Cathedral.
Besides several epitaphs, one here sees the fine gothic sepulchre of bishop Conrad of Lichtenberg,
who died in 1299. The colossal statue of that prelate lies on a stone and has still some marks
of the colours with which it had formerly been painted; in one hand he holds a book, in the
other was his crosier of which only the lower part is now left; his head covered with the mitre
rests on a cushion and his feet lie against a lion[1]. Near the entrance of this chapel, surrounded
by an elegant railing, is the baptismal-font of sculptured stone, the master-piece of Josse
Dotzinger of Worms, who died in 1449.

