"Dunshunner," said Bob very seriously, "to be a man of information, you are possessed of marvellous
few resources. I am quite ashamed of you. Now listen to me. I have thought deeply upon this
subject, and am quite convinced that, with some little trouble, we may secure the co-operation
of a most wealthy and influential body--one, too, that is generally supposed to have stood
aloof from all speculation of the kind, and whose name would be a tower of strength in the
moneyed quarters. I allude," continued Bob, reaching across for the kettle, "to the great Dissenting
Interest."

"The what?" cried I, aghast.

"The great Dissenting Interest. You can't have failed to observe the row they have lately been
making about Sunday travelling and education. Old Sam Sawley, the coffin-maker, is their principal
spokesman here; and wherever he goes the rest will follow, like a flock of sheep bounding after
a patriarchal ram. I propose, therefore, to wait upon him to-morrow, and request his co-operation
in a scheme which is not only to prove profitable, but to make head against the lax principles
of the present age. Leave me alone to tickle him. I consider his name, and those of one or
two others belonging to the same meeting-house--fellows with bank-stock, and all sorts of tin,
as perfectly secure. These dissenters smell a premium from an almost incredible distance. We
can fill up the rest of the committee with ciphers, and the whole thing is done."

"But the engineer--we must announce such an officer as a matter of course."

"I never thought of that," said Bob. "Couldn't we hire a fellow from one of the steamboats?"

"I fear that might get us into trouble: You know there are such things as gradients and sections
to be prepared. But there's Watty Solder, the gas-fitter, who failed the other day. He's a
sort of civil engineer by trade, and will jump at the proposal like a trout at the tail of
a May fly."

"Agreed. Now, then, let's fix the number of shares. This is our first experiment, and I think
we ought to be moderate. No sound political economist is avaricious. Let us say twelve thousand,
at twenty pounds a-piece."

"So be it."

"Well, then, that's arranged. I'll see Sawley and the rest to-morrow; settle with Solder, and
then write out the prospectus. You look in upon me in the evening, and we'll revise it together.
Now, by your leave, let's have in the Welsh rabbit and another tumbler to drink success and
prosperity to the Glenmutchkin Railway."

I confess that, when I rose on the morrow, with a slight headache and a tongue indifferently
parched, I recalled to memory, not without perturbation of conscience, and some internal qualms,
the conversation of the previous evening. I felt relieved, however, after two spoonfuls of
carbonate of soda, and a glance at the newspaper, wherein I perceived the announcement of no
less than four other schemes equally preposterous with our own. But, after all, what right
had I to assume that the Glenmutchkin project would prove an ultimate failure? I had not a
scrap of statistical information that might entitle me to form such an opinion. At any rate,
Parliament, by substituting the Board of Trade as an initiating body of inquiry, had created
a responsible tribunal, and freed us from the chance of obloquy. I saw before me a vision of
six months' steady gambling, at manifest advantage, in the shares, before a report could possibly
be pronounced, or our proceedings be in any way overhauled. Of course I attended that evening
punctually at my friend M'Corkindale's. Bob was in high feather; for Sawley no sooner heard
of the principles upon which the railway was to be conducted, and his own nomination as a director,
than he gave in his adhesion, and promised his unflinching support to the uttermost. The Prospectus
ran as follows:--

     "DIRECT GLENMUTCHKIN RAILWAY.
     IN 12,000 SHARES OF £20 EACH. DEPOSIT £1 PER SHARE

     Provisional Committee.

 SIR POLLOXFEN TREMENS, Bart. of Toddymains.
 TAVISH M'TAVISH of Invertavish.
 THE M'CLOSKIE.
 AUGUSTUS REGINALD DUNSHUNNER, Esq. of St Mirrens.
 SAMUEL SAWLEY, Esq., Merchant.
 MHIC-MHAC-VICH-INDUIBH.
 PHELIM O'FINLAN, Esq. of Castle-rook, Ireland.
 THE CAPTAIN of M'ALCOHOL.
 FACTOR for GLENTUMBLERS.
 JOHN JOB JOBSON, Esq., Manufacturer.
 EVAN M'CLAW of Glenscart and Inveryewky.
 JOSEPH HECKLES, Esq.
 HABBAKUK GRABBIE, Portioner in Ramoth-Drumclog.

 Engineer--WALTER SOLDER, Esq.
 Interim-Secretary--ROBERT M'CORKINDALE, Esq.

     "The necessity of a direct line of Railway communication
     through the fertile and populous district known as the
     VALLEY of GLENMUTCHKIN, has been long felt and universally
     acknowledged. Independently of the surpassing grandeur of
     its mountain scenery, which shall immediately be referred
     to, and other considerations of even greater importance,
     GLENMUTCHKIN is known to the capitalist as the most
     important BREEDING STATION in the Highlands of Scotland, and
     indeed as the great emporium from which the southern markets
     are supplied. It has been calculated by a most eminent
     authority, that every acre in the strath is capable of
     rearing twenty head of cattle; and, as has been ascertained
     after a careful admeasurement, that there are not less than
     TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND improvable acres immediately contiguous
     to the proposed line of Railway, it may confidently be
     assumed that the number of cattle to be conveyed along the
     line will amount to FOUR MILLIONS annually, which, at the
     lowest estimate, would yield a revenue larger, in proportion
     to the capital subscribed, than that of any Railway as yet
     completed within the United Kingdom. From this estimate the
     traffic in Sheep and Goats, with which the mountains are
     literally covered, has been carefully excluded, it having
     been found quite impossible (from its extent) to compute the
     actual revenue to be drawn from that most important branch.
     It may, however, be roughly assumed as from seventeen to
     nineteen per cent upon the whole, after deduction of the
     working expenses.

     "The population of Glenmutchkin is extremely dense. Its
     situation on the west coast has afforded it the means of
     direct communication with America, of which for many years
     the inhabitants have actively availed themselves. Indeed,
     the amount of exportation of live stock from this part of
     the Highlands to the Western continent, has more than once
     attracted the attention of Parliament. The Manufactures
     are large and comprehensive, and include the most famous
     distilleries in the world. The Minerals are most abundant,
     and amongst these may be reckoned quartz, porphyry, felspar,
     malachite, manganese, and basalt.

     "At the foot of the valley, and close to the sea, lies the
     important village known as the CLACHAN of INVERSTARVE. It is
     supposed by various eminent antiquaries to have been the
     capital of the Picts, and, amongst the busy inroads of
     commercial prosperity, it still retains some interesting
     traces of its former grandeur. There is a large fishing
     station here, to which vessels from every nation resort, and
     the demand for foreign produce is daily and steadily
     increasing.

     "As a sporting country Glenmutchkin is unrivalled; but it
     is by the tourists that its beauties will most greedily be
     sought. These consist of every combination which plastic
     nature can afford--cliffs of unusual magnitude and
     grandeur--waterfalls only second to the sublime cascades of
     Norway--woods, of which the bark is a remarkable valuable
     commodity. It need scarcely be added, to rouse the
     enthusiasm inseparable from this glorious glen, that here,
     in 1745, Prince Charles Edward Stuart, then in the zenith of
     his hopes, was joined by the brave Sir Grugar M'Grugar at
     the head of his devoted clan.

     "The Railway will be twelve miles long, and can be completed
     within six months after the Act of Parliament is obtained.
     The gradients are easy, and the curves obtuse. There are no
     viaducts of any importance, and only four tunnels along the
     whole length of the line. The shortest of these does not
     exceed a mile and a half.

     "In conclusion, the projectors of this Railway beg to state
     that they have determined, as a principle, to set their face
     AGAINST ALL SUNDAY TRAVELLING WHATSOEVER, and to oppose
     EVERY BILL which may hereafter be brought into Parliament,
     unless it shall contain a clause to that effect. It is also
     their intention to take up the cause of the poor and
     neglected STOKER, for whose accommodation, and social,
     moral, religious, and intellectual improvement, a large
     stock of evangelical tracts will speedily be required.
     Tenders of these, in quantities of not less than 12,000, may
     be sent in to the Interim Secretary. Shares must be applied
     for within ten days from the present date.

               "By order of the Provisional Committee,
                    "ROBT. M'CORKINDALE, Secretary."

"There!" said Bob, slapping down the prospectus on the table, with as much triumph as if it
had been the original of Magna Charta--"What do you think of that? If it doesn't do the business
effectually, I shall submit to be called a Dutchman. That last touch about the stoker will
bring us in the subscriptions of the old ladies by the score."

"Very masterly, indeed," said I. "But who the deuce is Mhic-Mhac-vich-Induibh?"

"A bona fide chief, I assure you, though a little reduced: I picked him up upon the Broomielaw.
His grandfather had an island somewhere to the west of the Hebrides; but it is not laid down
in the maps."

"And the Captain of M'Alcohol?"

"A crack distiller."

"And the Factor for Glentumblers?"

"His principal customer. But, bless you, my dear St Mirrens! don't bother yourself any more
about the committee. They are as respectable a set--on paper at least--as you would wish to
see of a summer's morning, and the beauty of it is that they will give us no manner of trouble.
Now about the allocation. You and I must restrict ourselves to a couple of thousand shares
a-piece. That's only a third of the whole, but it won't do to be greedy."

"But, Bob, consider! Where on earth are we to find the money to pay up the deposits?"

"Can you, the principal director of the Glenmutchkin Railway, ask me, the secretary, such a
question? Don't you know that any of the banks will give us tick to the amount 'of half the
deposits.' All that is settled already, and you can get your two thousand pounds whenever you
please merely for the signing of a bill. Sawley must get a thousand according to stipulation--Jobson,
Heckles, and Grabbie, at least five hundred a-piece, and another five hundred, I should think,
will exhaust the remaining means of the committee. So that, out of our whole stock, there remain
just five thousand shares to be allocated to the speculative and evangelical public. My eyes!
won't there be a scramble for them!"

Next day our prospectus appeared in the newspapers. It was read, canvassed, and generally approved
of. During the afternoon, I took an opportunity of looking into the Tontine, and whilst under
shelter of the Glasgow Herald, my ears were solaced with such ejaculations as the following:--

"I say, Jimsy, hae ye seen this grand new prospectus for a railway tae Glenmutchkin?"

"Ay--it looks no that ill. The Hieland lairds are pitting their best fit foremost.