  A City on the river T----s.
  Nov. the --teenth.

Carrying out your order No. 69A, I made a night reconnaissance in force. I have the honour
to report that at dinner at a certain hotel two hundred yards east by north of railway base
C----g X, I counted only five boiled shirts. Have reason to suspect that they were subsidised
by the management, and were worn by Stock Exchange members thrown out of employment by the
War and endeavouring to supplement their private incomes.

The rest of the male costumes were mainly khaki. One man entered dining-room with Buffalo Bill
hat decorated with maple-leaf and A.M.S. (Athabasca Mounted Scalpers), which he deposited on
chair next to him. The only nut present endeavoured to remove this object. The A.M.S. man touched
his hip-pocket significantly, and said: "The drinks are on you."

At the table next to him was a group of South American magnates in tweed suits decorated with
large buttons reading: "No me habla de la guerra!" If the man from Athabasca should start conversation
with them about the war, it seemed probable that gun-fighting would ensue. I therefore enfiladed
the position and took cover. However, the sergeant-waiter tactfully shifted a palm into screening
position between the two tables, and thus averted the spreading of the War to Latin America.

Similar state of affairs existed in stalls of certain theatre within outpost distance of P----y
C----s. Ladies were openly knitting socks and intimate woollen garments between the Acts. Management
seemed powerless to restore the conventions of peace-time.

At the C----n Tavern the bar-tender had pasted notice on mirror behind him: "This Saloon closes
at ten sharp. Gents are kindly requested not to start nothing here." The announcement seemed
to have been effective, for very few bullet-marks were to be noted.

By midnight, L----r S----e and R----t S----t were comparatively clear of dagos. This was due
to efforts of street-cleaning corps (3rd County of L----n Light Hose).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW ANÆSTHETIC.

  REMARKABLE DISCOVERY.
  MEDICAL SCIENCE SUPERSEDED.

A correspondent in whose accuracy we place the highest trust informs us of very remarkable
results which have been achieved by the adoption of a new means of alleviating pain and suffering
invented by a lady in London. This lady being suddenly taken with lumbago was in great agony
until she remembered our soldiers at the front, and thought how much worse was a wound, and
instantly, our correspondent is informed, some of her own distress left her. The case has been
investigated by several eminent inquirers and they are satisfied with her story.

Meanwhile evidence of a similar nature comes from other parts of the country, in every case
recording a sense of personal well-being, though only comparative, and an increased disinclination
to complain, upon the realisation of what it must be to be a soldier just now--whether up to
his knees in a flooded trench, or sleeping on the wet ground, or lying in agony waiting to
be picked up and taken to a hospital, or being taken to a hospital over jolting roads, or going
without meals, or having to boil tea over a candle-flame, or awakening from the operation and
finding himself maimed for life.

Nor is the lenitive of this little effort of imagination confined to bodily ills; for a well-authenticated
case reaches us of a notoriously mean man of wealth who was not heard to utter a single word
of grumbling over the new war taxes after realising what the soldier's burden was too. Hence
Mr. Punch is only too happy to give publicity to the discovery.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Spy Danger.

Extract from a letter written by an East Coast resident:--

    "The authorities are now looking for a grey motor-car, driven
    by a woman, who is thought to have a wireless apparatus
    inside."

R.A.M.C. forward, please.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST BOTTLE.

I had been drilling all the morning, and had spent the whole of the afternoon squirming face
downwards on the moist turf of Richmond Park in an endeavour to advance, as commanded, in extended
order. In the morning--that is during compressed drill--I had been twice wounded. Owing to
lack of education a famous novelist had confused his left hand with his right, with the result
that when we were right-turned he had dealt me a terrific blow on the ear with the barrel of
his rifle. It soon ceased to be an ear, and became of the size and consistency of a muffin.
My second casualty was brought about by a well-known orchestral conductor, who however confidently
he could pilot his players through the most complicated Symphonic Poem was invariably out of
his depth whenever, the ranks being turned about, he was required to form fours. His manoeuvre
that morning had been a wild and undisciplined fugue, culminating in an unconventional stretto
upon an exceedingly dominant pedal-point, that is to say, his heel on my toe.

Consequently when I arrived home in the evening, wet, soiled, hungry and maimed, I felt that
I needed a little artificial invigoration. A bright idea occurred to me as I was waiting for
the bath to fill.

"Joan," I cried, "don't you think I might open Johann to-night?" Joan, who had been trying
to decide whether it would not be more advisable to have my sweater dyed a permanent shot-green
and brown, demurred.

"I thought your anti-German conscience would not permit you to open Johann until after the
war's over," she called back.

"My anti-German conscience has been severely wounded," I replied. "It hasn't sufficient strength
to hold out much longer. In a few seconds it will surrender unconditionally."

"Be brave," urged Joan. "Just think how proud you will be in days to come when you look back
to this evening and realise how, in the face of the most terrible temptations, you triumphed!"

"That's all very fine," I remarked, "but to-night I feel I need Johann medicinally. If I don't
have him, there may be no days to come. Do be reasonable. Do you suppose that if the KAISER,
for instance, were bitten by a mad dog--a real one, I mean--that his anti-Ally conscience would
forbid his adoption of the Pasteur treatment?"

"Then if you really feel the need of a special refresher," said Joan, "at least let me send
Phoebe out for a bottle of some friendly or neutral substitute."

A vivid recollection of Phoebe's being despatched once before in an emergency for mustard and
returning with custard flashed through my mind.

"She's much too unreliable," I cried. "She'd get bay rum, or something equally futile. It must
be Johann or nothing."

"Then," said Joan, "let us say nothing"--an ambiguity of which I determined to take full advantage.

Johann, I must now explain, was the sole survivor of six small bottles of the genuine Rhine
brand which Joan's uncle (who is in the trade) had given her last Christmas. Number Five had
been opened on the evening of August Bank Holiday after a strenuous day on the tennis courts.
Later, when hostilities had started all round I had taken a terrible oath that nothing of German
or Austrian origin should be used in our household until Peace broke out. This necessitated
the sacrifice of at least four inches of breakfast sausage and the better part of a box of
Carlsbad plums. Johann, being intact, was merely interned. But at that time I had not anticipated
that some three months later I should be exhausted by long and tiring drills and manoeuvres.

However, on this night my body cried aloud for Johann's refreshing contents. I did not care
two pins that he had been manufactured on the banks of the Rhine, or that he was the product
of alien and hostile hands. After all, it wasn't Johann's fault; and besides, surely he had
been long enough in England to become naturalised. At any rate it was both prejudiced and illogical
to assume that Johann was my enemy solely because he happened to be born in Germany.

The bath took some time to fill. The taps, I think, wanted sweeping. But during the time that
elapsed I made up my mind. Johann should be opened. I slipped on my dressing-gown and went
in search of him. When I had secured him I met Joan on the landing; she was just going down
to dinner.

"Haven't you had your bath yet?" she asked. "Hurry up and--oh! you've got Johann!"

"Yes," I said. "I have decided that there is no evidence to prove that he is not a naturalised
British bottle. I am going to open him."

"You renegade!" Joan cried. "If you dare so much as to loosen his cork I'll--I'll give you
an Iron Cross."

"I'm desperate," I answered. "I would still open Johann even if you threatened me with the
Iron Cross of both the first and the second class."

"Coward!" said Joan. "Still, if you're really determined to open him, remember half belongs to me."

A moment later I had poured half the contents of Johann--his full name is Johann Maria Farina--into
my bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

In The Wife of Sir Isaac Harman (MACMILLAN) that impenitent pamphleteer, H. G. WELLS, returns
yet again to the intriguing subject of marriage, and in a vein something nearer orthodoxy.
Not, certainly, that worthy stubborn orthodoxy of accepted unquestioned doctrine, or that sleeker
variety of middle-aged souls that were once young, now too tired or bored to go on asking questions,
but an orthodoxy rather that is honest enough to revise on the evidence earlier judgments as
too cocksure and hasty. Sir Isaac Harman was a tea-shop magnate, and a very pestilent and primitive
cad who caught his wife young and poor and battered her into reluctant surrender by a stormy
wooing, whose very sincerity and abandonment were but a frantic expression of his dominating
egotism and acquisitiveness. Wooing and winning, thinks this simple ignoble knight, is a thing
done once and for all. Remains merely obedience in very plain and absolute terms on the part
of lady to lord, obedience which, in the last resort, can be exacted by withholding supplies--not
so uncommon a form of blackmail as it suits the dominant sex to imagine. Lady Harman's emancipation
does not take the conventionally unconventional form, for some deeper reason, I think, than
that her sententious friend and would-be lover, George Brumley, could not altogether escape
her gentle contempt; indeed, she recognises Sir Isaac's claims upon her for duty and gratitude
in a way which modern high-spirited priestesses of progress would scarcely approve. She fights
merely for a limit to the proprietorship, for the right to a separate individuality, the right
to be useful in a wider sphere (a phrase that stands for so much that is good and less good).
Mr. WELLS has realised this gracious, shy and beautiful personality with a fine skill. It is
no mean feat. He might so easily have made a dear mild ghost. And oh! if ladies of influence
who regiment their inferiors in orderly philanthropic schemes had some of the wisdom and tolerance
of Lady Harman in her dealings with the tea-shop girls. You see one instinctively pays Mr.
WELLS the serious compliment of assuming that he has something material to say about the things
which matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

