This was the kind of speech which would have been suitable and effective, if the South African
garrison had been 20,000 instead of 10,000 strong, and the expeditionary force had been mobilised
on Salisbury Plain. It was unsuitable and ineffective under the existing circumstances; when,
that is to say, the British Government, by refusing to sanction the measures advised by the
Commander-in-Chief, had elected to put themselves at a military disadvantage for the sake of
prolonging the stage of friendly discussion and in the hope of gaining their point by diplomatic
means. In these circumstances such speeches were merely food for President Krüger to use in
feeding the enthusiasm of his burghers. What Lord Milner desired of the Home Government was,
as we have seen, a polite but inflexible demand for the Bloemfontein minimum, coupled with
unostentatious, but effective, military preparations. The Home Government, as the sequel will
show, were driven by the unpatriotic attitude of the Liberal Opposition into a precisely opposite
course in both these respects. Their demand was vague in substance, and irritating in manner;
while their inadequate defensive preparations were more than neutralised by the loudness with
which, in deference to the views of the Liberal Opposition, they proclaimed their reluctance
to undertake military measures on a scale that would really have made an impression on the
Boers.[92]

         [Footnote 92: E.g. Mr. Balfour's statement in the House of
         Commons that the object of the despatch of the special
         service officers, and the small additions of engineers and
         artillery was "to complete the existing garrison." The
         purchase of transport, he said, had been long ago decided
         upon.]

[Sidenote: The Fischer-Hofmeyr mission.]

One result which Mr. Chamberlain's speech produced was to bring Mr. Hofmeyr once more upon
the scene. Before this date (June 26th) Mr. Fischer, apparently considering that the failure
of the Bloemfontein Conference cast a reflection upon the statesmanship and influence of the
Free State Government, had commenced a second essay in mediation. Early in June he had paid
a visit to Capetown, where he was in close communication with Mr. Hofmeyr and the Cape Ministers,
and had twice called upon the High Commissioner. He had left Capetown on the 19th for Bloemfontein;
and then proceeded to Pretoria, which he reached on the 25th. At the Transvaal capital he entered
into negotiations with the Executive, calling upon the British Agent on the 26th, and again
on the 28th, and maintaining communication, through him, with Lord Milner. From Pretoria Mr.
Fischer returned to Bloemfontein in company with Mr. Smuts and Mr. Groebler,[93] on July 1st.
Here he met Mr. Hofmeyr, who, leaving Capetown with Mr. Herholdt, on the same day (July 1st),
reached Bloemfontein early on the following morning.

         [Footnote 93: Under State-Secretary of the Transvaal.]

Mr. Hofmeyr was in Bloemfontein, because the events of the last few days had convinced him
that the only hope of saving the situation--saving it, that is, from the Afrikander nationalist
point of view--lay in prompt and energetic action on his part. On June 23rd Mr. Schreiner had
been informed by the High Commissioner of the intention of the Home Government to "complete"
the Cape garrison; and shortly afterwards the despatch of the special service officers was
publicly announced in England. Mr. Chamberlain's speech at Birmingham on the 26th, cabled almost
in extenso to the High Commissioner, was communicated to the local press on the 28th. On the
same evening a mass meeting, held in the Good Hope Hall at Capetown, declared its strong approval
of the action of the Imperial Government on behalf of the British population in the Transvaal.
With these signs of an approaching Armageddon before his eyes, Mr. Hofmeyr had overcome his
objection to personal dealings with President Krüger, and had resolved to go to Pretoria to
confer with the leaders of the Boer oligarchy. But, in order to protect himself from the risk
of a useless rebuff, he had first arranged to meet Mr. Fischer at Bloemfontein, and obtain
through him and President Steyn some definite assurance that his counsels would be treated
with respect, before finally proceeding to the Transvaal.

On Sunday, July 2nd, and in these circumstances, a conference was held between the Master of
the Bond and Mr. Fischer and Mr. Smuts--two men not unworthy to represent the cause of Afrikander
nationalism in their respective republics. As the result of their discussions, carried on almost
uninterruptedly from the early morning until nearly midnight, Mr. Fischer, Mr. Smuts, and Mr.
Groebler, in the words of Ons Land, "knew precisely what had to be done, in the opinion of
the Colonial representatives, to gain the moral support of Colonial Afrikanders and to lead
in the direction of peace."[94]

         [Footnote 94: Article on "The Mission of Messrs. Hofmeyr and
         Herholdt" in Ons Land, of July 11th, 1899, as reproduced in
         the South African News of the same date. This account of
         Mr. Hofmeyr's proceedings is presumed to have been published
         with his approval. C. 9,518.]

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr at Bloemfontein.]

On the following day (Monday, the 3rd) Mr. Fischer and his companions arrived again in Pretoria;
but Mr. Hofmeyr remained at Bloemfontein, since he had decided not to go to the Transvaal capital,
unless "he was assured of achieving something of importance there." Up to the afternoon of
Tuesday (the 4th) no such assurance had been received; and, says Ons Land, "as it seemed the
assurance was almost in a contrary direction, preparations were already made for the homeward
journey." But a little later on in the day Mr. Hofmeyr and his companion "received a hint that,
although their chances of success at Pretoria were but slight, they were not altogether hopeless."
The facts thus far provided by Ons Land must now be supplemented by a reference to the telegrams
which fell into the hands of the British authorities a year later upon the occupation of Bloemfontein.
From these documents we know that President Krüger at first telegraphed to President Steyn
a polite refusal of Mr. Hofmeyr's mediation. This was followed, on Tuesday morning, by a telegram
from Mr. Fischer himself, informing President Steyn that the Transvaal Government "would be
glad to meet Mr. Hofmeyr and Mr. Herholdt, but that he could not say what chance there was
of their mission succeeding until the Volksraad had been consulted." This, as we have seen,
was by no means sufficient for Mr. Hofmeyr. But later on there came a second telegram--the
telegram which Ons Land delicately calls a "hint"--in which Mr. Fischer said that President
Krüger "was willing to see Mr. Hofmeyr before he brought the matter before the Raad," and that
he himself "hoped to obtain certain concessions from the Executive Council, with the members
of which he was in consultation."

Thus encouraged, Mr. Hofmeyr and Mr. Herholdt at once left Bloemfontein by special train, and,
travelling all night, reached Pretoria on Wednesday, the 5th, at seven o'clock.

"From the station," says Ons Land, "they were escorted by various officials and friends to
the Transvaal Hotel, where rooms had been engaged for them as guests of the State. Even before
they had taken breakfast they had an audience with President Krüger. On the invitation of His
Honour they accompanied Mr. Fischer to three meetings of the Executive Council--two on Wednesday
and one on Thursday. They had the opportunity, too, of meeting the greater part of the Volksraad
members, and of conversing with them. What occurred on this occasion is, of course, private,
and not for publication."

Mr. Hofmeyr and Mr. Herholdt left Pretoria on Friday, the 7th, and reached Capetown on Monday,
the 10th.

[Sidenote: Lord Milner and the mission.]

[Sidenote: Bid for "moral support".]

Lord Milner did everything possible to secure the success of the Fischer-Hofmeyr mission. Provided
President Krüger was induced to give the Uitlanders an appreciable share in the government
of the Transvaal, it made no difference to the Imperial Government whether he did so from a
desire to secure the "moral support" of the Cape Afrikander party, or from any other motive
of political expediency. What was essential was that the existing franchise scheme should be
so far improved as to become a genuine, and no longer a fictitious, measure of reform. On the
understanding that the "mission" had no less an object in view--an understanding which he gained
from conversation with Mr. Fischer himself as well as from Mr. Schreiner and Mr. Hofmeyr--Lord
Milner placed the British Government code at the disposal of Mr. Fischer and the Prime Minister,
and further arranged with the former to communicate with him (Lord Milner) through the British
Agent at Pretoria. But Lord Milner especially impressed, alike upon Mr. Fischer, Mr. Hofmeyr,
and Mr. Schreiner, the necessity of urging President Krüger to discuss any proposed modifications
in the Draft Law with the Imperial Government or its representatives, before they were submitted
to the Raad. The objection to the adoption of this course, which, according to Mr. Fischer's
statement,[95] the Pretoria Executive did in fact make, was their inability to "recognise the
right of the British Government to be consulted on the franchise, which was an internal matter."
This objection, however, as Lord Milner pointed out to the members of the Pretoria Executive,
both directly through Sir William Greene,[96] and indirectly through Mr. Hofmeyr and Mr. Fischer,
was a mere pretext. "The whole world," he said in effect, "knows that whatever alterations
you make in the Draft Law--and indeed the Law itself--will be the result of the pressure brought
to bear upon you by the British Government. That being so, to refuse to discuss these alterations
with us privately, and in a friendly manner, because the franchise is an 'internal matter,'
is to strain at a gnat while you are all the while swallowing a camel." But neither at this
time, nor at any other period in the three months' negotiations, did President Krüger desire
to come to an agreement with the British Government at the price of granting a genuine measure
of reform. As a bid for the "moral support" of the Cape Ministry, but without the slightest
attempt to consult with the British Government or its representatives, he recommended to the
Volksraad, on July 7th, certain amendments, the effect of which was to confer the franchise
upon a very small body of Uitlanders, and that only if they succeeded in complying with certain
cumbersome and protracted formalities.[97] On the following morning the Bond Press announced,
with a great flourish of trumpets, that Mr. Hofmeyr's mission had been remarkably successful,
and set out the amendments of "The Great Reform Act" as representing the fruit of his and Mr.
Fischer's efforts. This was for the public. To Mr. Fischer, Hofmeyr himself telegraphed on
his return journey to Capetown, that he "deplored the failure" of his mission, when he "thought
he had reason to expect success." Mr. Schreiner, on the other hand, was no less ready to bless
the "Hofmeyr compromise" than Krüger's original scheme. Upon receiving by telegram the bare
heads of the proposed amendments, and without waiting to learn what practical effect they would
have upon the position of the Uitlanders, he hastily authorised The South African News to announce
(July 8th) that the Cape Government considered the proposals of the amended law "adequate,
satisfactory, and such as should secure a peaceful settlement."[98] This opinion he subsequently
modified; and, at Lord Milner's request, he advised Mr. Fischer (July 11th) to urge his friends
at Pretoria to delay the passage of the bill through the Volksraad. And Lord Milner was authorised
by Mr. Chamberlain to instruct Sir William Greene to offer the same advice to the Transvaal
Government, with the more precise intimation that "full particulars of the new scheme" ought
to be furnished officially to the Imperial Government, if the proposals which it embodied were
to form "any element in the settlement of the differences between the two Governments."[99]
The High Commissioner's object was, of course, to reduce the area of formal negotiations, and
therefore the risk of official friction, to its narrowest limits. But this was not President
Krüger's object. His principle was the very opposite of that of the Imperial Government. They
abstained from preparations for war in order to improve the prospect of a peaceable settlement.
The force upon which he relied was the warlike temper of his burghers, and the answering enthusiasm
which the spectacle of the Republic, prepared to defy the British Empire, would arouse among
the whole Dutch population of South Africa. Mr. Reitz was, therefore, instructed to decline
Mr. Chamberlain's request on the ground that "the whole matter was out of the hands of the
Government";[100] meaning, thereby, that it had already been submitted to the Volksraad. This,
again, was the thinnest of excuses, since President Krüger had never yet shown any scruple
in modifying or withdrawing proposals already laid before the Volksraad, when it suited him
to do so.

         [Footnote 95: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 96: Then Mr. Conyngham Greene.]

         [Footnote 97: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 98: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 99: Ibid.]

         [Footnote 100: C. 9,415.]

[Sidenote: The Bogus Conspiracy.]

[Sidenote: War fever in the Transvaal.]

It may be questioned, however, whether, even at this time, the "whole matter" had not passed,
in another and more serious sense, "out of the hands" both of the Pretoria Executive and the
British Government. The political atmosphere of South Africa had become electric. The Uitlanders
themselves cherished no illusion on the subject of President Krüger's proposals. Amended and
re-amended, the Franchise Law, as the Uitlander Council then and there declared, left the granting
of the franchise at the discretion of the Boer officials or the Pretoria Executive, and as
such it was "a most dangerous measure, and apparently framed with the object of defeating the
end it was presumed to have in view."[101] Further and convincing evidence of the utterly vicious
and depraved character of the personnel of the Boer administration was afforded by the proceedings
arising out of the alleged "conspiracy" against the Republic, of which the unfortunate Englishman
Nicholls was the innocent victim (May 18th to July 25th).[102] In this disgraceful affair the
gravest offences against international comity were committed; high officials, including Mr.
Tjaart Krüger, the President's youngest son, were implicated in a gross and scandalous prostitution
of the machinery of justice; and yet no apology was offered to the Imperial Government, nor
any compensation awarded to Nicholls for the two months' imprisonment and continuous persecution
by the agents-provocateurs, to which he had been subjected. The impassioned speeches delivered
at the Paardekraal meeting was only one among many signs of the dangerous hostility to England
and everything English that had taken possession of the Republic. The British residents who
had petitioned the Queen were denounced as "revolutionaries," and threatened with the vengeance
of the burghers. "If war breaks out," wrote De Rand Post,"[103] the Johannesburg agitators
are the real instigators, and to these ringleaders capital punishment should be meted out."
In the Volksraad discussion of the Franchise Law the same passionate hatred of the Uitlanders
was manifested. "Is it the English only who have the right to make conditions?" asked Mr. Lombard
on July 15th. "If it comes to be a question of war, there will be a great destruction. And
who will be destroyed if it comes to a collision? Why, the subjects of Her Majesty in Johannesburg."[104]

         [Footnote 101: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 102: On May 15th, 1899--i.e. a fortnight before
         the Bloemfontein Conference met--five persons alleged to be
         British subjects were arrested on a warrant, signed by Mr.
         Smuts as State-Attorney, on a charge of high treason. All of
         them, except one man--Nicholls, who was innocent--were agents
         of the secret service. The statement that the men were
         ex-British officers, and that one of them alleged that he was
         acting under direct instructions from the War Office, was
         disseminated through the Press by the Transvaal Government,
         with the object of discrediting (1) the South African League,
         and (2) the British Government, in the eyes of the civilised
         world. The whole of the alleged "conspiracy against the
         independence of the Republic," thanks to the endurance of
         Nicholls and the persistence of the Imperial authorities in
         South Africa, was shown to be the work of the Transvaal
         police, favoured by the negligence or political bad faith of
         certain Government officials. The prosecution was abandoned
         on July 25th. Mr. Duxbury, the counsel for the defence
         retained by the British Government, in reviewing the case and
         the proceedings, wrote (August 9th): "It seems abundantly
         clear, from all the facts which have come to light, that the
         whole of this disgraceful prosecution found its inception in
         the minds of Mr. Schutte, the Commissioner of Police, and
         Acting Chief Detective Beatty.... I must direct your
         attention to the very grave accusation contained in Thomas
         Dashwood Bundy's affidavit against Mr. Tjaart Krüger. This
         gentleman is the son of President Krüger, and is the Chief of
         the Secret Service department of this State." And of Mr.
         Smuts he writes: "I believe he was deceived by the
         detectives, and yet at the same time I fail to understand
         why, in a matter of such-magnitude, he allowed himself to
         sign warrants for the arrest of persons charged with such a
         serious crime as high treason on the strength of an affidavit
         signed by a detective, who, on the very day such affidavit
         was signed, had been denounced by the Chief Justice from the
         Bench of the High Court as a perjurer." C. 9,521 (which
         contains a full record of the whole affair).]

         [Footnote 103: The words are quoted by Mr. M. P. C. Walter,
         the editor, in a letter of protest published in the Transvaal
         Leader of July 7th, 1899. C. 9,521.]

         [Footnote 104: Ibid.]

These expressions scarcely do justice to the spirit of vindictiveness with which certain of
the republican leaders regarded the British population of the Rand. On May 22nd, 1900, less
than a year after the date of the Volksraad discussion of the Franchise Bill, and when Lord
Roberts was advancing rapidly upon Johannesburg, a conversation took place with Mr. Smuts in
Pretoria, which was reported in The Times. In the course of this conversation the State Attorney
said, with reference to the proposed destruction of the mines, that "he greatly regretted that
Johannesburg should suffer, but that the Government had no choice in the matter, as the popular
pressure upon them was too great to be resisted." This determination is rightly characterised
by Mr. Farrelly, the late legal adviser to the Government of the South African Republic, as
the "fiendish project of wrecking the mines and plunging into hopeless misery for years tens
of thousands of innocent men, women, and children." But that is not all. He has put upon record[105]
the sinister fact that the man entrusted with the execution of this infamous design was Mr.
Smuts himself. The mines were saved, therefore, not by the Boer Government, but in spite of
it, and solely through the independent action of Dr. Krause, the Acting-Commandant of Johannesburg,
who "arrested the leader of the wreckers, sent by Mr. Smuts, the day before the surrender to
Lord Roberts."[106]

         [Footnote 105: The Settlement after the War, p. 218.]

         [Footnote 106: Ibid.]

[Sidenote: Action of the British.]

The British population, although it provided no such displays of racial passion, was in an
equally determined mood. Undismayed by the threats of the Boers, the Uitlander Council continued
calmly to analyse the Franchise Bill in each successive phase--an unostentatious but very useful
service, which materially assisted Lord Milner in following the windings and doublings of Boer
diplomacy. After the great meeting at Johannesburg (June 10th), the British centres in the
Cape Colony, Natal, and Rhodesia gave similar demonstrations of their confidence in Lord Milner's
statesmanship, and their conviction of the justice and necessity of the five years' franchise
demanded by the Imperial Government. On the other hand, the irritation against British intervention
was growing daily in the Free State; and the Dutch Reformed Church and the Bond had organised
a counter-demonstration in the Cape Colony. The Synod of the former, meeting on June 30th,
drew up an address protesting that the differences between Lord Milner's franchise proposals
and those of President Krüger were not sufficient to justify the "horrors of war," and requested
the Governor to forward it to the Queen. At Capetown (July 12th) and in the Dutch districts
throughout the Colony, Bond meetings were held at which resolutions were passed in favour of
a "compromise" as between Lord Milner's five years' franchise and the scheme embodied in President
Krüger's law. More sinister was the circumstance that the information, that a consignment of
500 rifles and 1,000,000 cartridges, landed at Port Elizabeth on July 8th, had been permitted
by the Cape Government to be forwarded through the Colony to the Free State, only came to the
ears of the High Commissioner by an accident. In the meantime, more definite evidence of the
almost unanimous approval of Lord Milner's policy by the British population in South Africa
was forthcoming. In all three British colonies petitions to the Queen praying for justice to
the Uitlanders, and affirming absolute confidence in Lord Milner, were signed. The Natal petition
contained the names of three-fourths of the adult male population of the Colony, while the
signatures to the joint petition of the Cape and Rhodesia had already reached a total of 40,500
before the end of July. In other respects the testimony of Natal was clear and unmistakable.
In this predominantly English Colony identical resolutions supporting the action and policy
of the Imperial Government, were carried unanimously in both Chambers of the Legislature.

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr's warning.]

In the middle of July the situation improved in a slight degree through the influence which
Lord Milner had exercised upon the Afrikander leaders in the Cape Colony. On the 14th the Cape
Parliament met, and on this day Mr. Hofmeyr, chagrined at a suggestion for further support
which he had received from the republican nationalists at Pretoria, despatched a telegram to
Mr. Smuts, in which he, as the recognised head of the Afrikander Bond, reminded the members
of President Krüger's Executive that the promised co-operation of the Cape Government with
them had been definitely limited to "moral support." And he plainly hinted that, unless greater
deference was shown to his advice, even this "moral support" might be withdrawn.

     "The most important suggestions sent from here will apparently
     not be adopted. The independence of the Republics is in danger.
     As to the Colony, the utmost prospect held out was moral support.
     The Ministry and the Bond have acted up to that. If Parliament
     [i.e. the Cape Parliament] goes too strongly in the same
     direction, there may be a change of Ministry, with Sprigg or
     Rhodes backed by Milner. Would your interests be benefited
     thereby? Verb. sat. sap."[107]

         [Footnote 107: Secured by the Intelligence Department. The
         telegrams thus referred to, in this and the following
         chapter, have not been published in the Blue-Books. They were
         published, however, in The Times History of the War. Their
         authenticity is undoubted. Sir Gordon Sprigg had held a
         conversation with the Governor on the 13th.]

As President Krüger wanted to retain the "moral support" of the Cape Government for a few weeks
longer, he listened to Mr. Fischer's advice[108] to humour their prejudices, and forthwith
recommended a further modification of the Franchise Bill to the Volksraad. This final amendment,
under which a uniform seven years' retrospective franchise was substituted for a nine years'
retrospective franchise, alternate with a seven years' retrospective franchise taking effect
five years after the passing of the law (i.e. in 1904), was accepted on July 18th, and the
new Franchise Law was passed on the 19th and promulgated on the 26th. Its provisions were so
obscure that it was accompanied by an explanatory memorandum furnished by the State Attorney,
Mr. Smuts. But even assuming that the legal pitfalls could be removed, and the law, thus simplified,
would be worked in the most liberal spirit by the officials of the Republic, President Krüger's
proposals failed to provide the essential reform which Lord Milner had pledged himself and
the Imperial Government to obtain. That reform was the immediate endowment of a substantial
proportion of the British residents in the Transvaal with the rights of citizenship. To use
his own words,[109] "the whole point" of his Bloemfontein proposal was "to put the Uitlanders
in a position to fight their own battles, and so to avoid the necessity of pressing for the
redress of specific grievances."

         [Footnote 108: Mr. Fischer was still at Pretoria. C. 9, 415.]

         [Footnote 109: C. 9,415.]

No one in South Africa had any doubt as to the entire inadequacy of the Franchise Bill to fulfil
this essential object. In the opinion of the Uitlander Council it was[110] "expressly designed
to exclude rather than admit the newcomer." Sir Henry de Villiers complained[111] to Mr. Fischer:

         [Footnote 110: Ibid.]

         [Footnote 111: On July 31st, Cd. 369.]

     "Then there is the Franchise Bill, which is so obscure that the
     State Attorney had to issue an explanatory memorandum to remove
     the obscurities. But surely a law should be clear enough to speak
     for itself, and no Government or court of law will be bound by
     the State Attorney's explanations. I do not know what those
     explanations are, but the very fact that they are required
     condemns the Bill. That Bill certainly does not seem quite to
     carry out the promises made to you, Mr. Hofmeyr, and Mr.
     Herholdt."

[Sidenote: An illusory measure.]

And Lord Milner, in his final analysis of the law on July 26th, concludes[112] that "the Bill
as it stands leaves it practically in the hands of the Government to enfranchise, or not to
enfranchise, the Uitlanders as it chooses." And he then draws attention to the very grave consideration
that if the paramount Power once accepts this illusory measure, it will deprive itself of any
future right of intervention on the franchise question.

         [Footnote 112: C. 9,518.]

     "And the worst of it," he wrote, "is that should the Bill,
     through a literal interpretation of its complicated provisions,
     fail to secure the object at which it avowedly aims, no one will
     be able to protest against the result."

For one moment it seemed to the anxious warden of British interests in South Africa as though
the Home Government might be caught in President Krüger's legislative net. The incident is
one that well exhibits the tireless effort and unflinching resolution with which Lord Milner
discharged the duties of his office.

President Krüger's Bloemfontein scheme was a maze of legal pitfalls. What these pitfalls were
the reader may learn from the analysis of the scheme which was published in The Cape Times
of June 10th, 1899. When the Franchise Bill was before the Volksraad this complicated scheme,
as we have seen, was amended and re-amended; and each new provision was as intricate in its
working as the parent scheme. It is obvious that nothing short of a commission of inquiry could
have determined with certainty the manner in which the representation of the Uitlanders was
affected by each successive amendment. While these changes were in progress in the Raadzaal
at Pretoria--changes so "numerous and so rapid," as Lord Milner said,[113] that it was "absolutely
impossible at any given moment to know what the effect of the scheme, as existing at that moment,
was likely to be"--Lord Milner himself at Capetown was at one and the same time overwhelmed
with detailed criticisms from Uitlanders, anxious that no legal pitfall or administrative obstacle
should remain undetected, and besieged with cables from the Colonial Office requesting precise
information upon any point upon which an energetic member of the House of Commons might have
chosen to interrogate the Secretary of State. And, in addition to this rain of telegrams, people
on the spot were constantly calling at Government House to ask if the High Commissioner had
observed this or that defect or trap in clauses, the text of which he had not yet had time
to receive, still less to read or comprehend. All this, too, was over and above the heavy administrative
and official duties of the Governor and High Commissioner--duties which Lord Milner was called
upon to perform with more than usual care, in view of the political ascendancy of the Dutch
party in the Cape Colony.

         [Footnote 113: August 23rd, C. 9,521.]

[Sidenote: Mr. Chamberlain's assumption.]

