DEAR SIR,--As the conductor of the recognised organ of the legal profession, I have the honour
to address you. My learned and accomplished friend. Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS, Q.C., complained
the other day that there was a right of appeal from the Police Court to the Bench of Middlesex
Magistrates. He said that his colleagues were barristers and gentlemen of considerable eminence,
and in those characters were better able to decide upon the merits of a case than the persons
who compose the Tribunal to which appeal from their decision is permissible. I have not recently
looked through the list of Metropolitan Police Magistrates, but, if they have been chosen from
the ranks of literature and law, as they were thirty years ago, I can well understand that
they are an exceedingly capable body of men. That so accomplished a littérateur and admirable
an advocate as my friend Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS himself should have been raised to the Magisterial
bench, is a proof that the standard has been maintained. But, Sir, can nothing be done for
the other tribunal?

Would it not be possible to appoint a certain proportion of stipendiaries, with ample salaries,
to that body? What is wanted are men with a perfect knowledge of the law, and a large experience
of the adversities as well as the pleasures of life. If they occasionally dabble in literature,
so much the better. But, it may be said, where are such men to be found? I answer, in very
many places, and, to encourage the authorities in their search, shall be most happy to personally
head the list.

Yours, very faithfully,

(Signed) A. BRIEFLESS, JUNIOR. Pump-handle Court, Oct. 4th, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GROAN OF THE GUSHLESS.

(A SONG À LA SHENSTONE.)

    ["What is described as an Anti-Gush Society has, according
    to a Pittsburg paper, been formed in New York, its object
    being to check the growing tendency, especially noticeable
    among young people of the period, to express themselves in
    exaggerated language."]

Girl Member of the A.G.S. loq.:--

  Ye maidens, so cheerful and gay,
    Whose words ever fulsomely fall,
  Oh, pity your friend, who to-day
    Has become a Society's thrall.
  Allow me to muse and to sigh,
    Nor talk of the change that ye find;
  None once was more happy than I;
    But, alas! I've left Gushing behind!

  Now I know what it is to have strove[1]
    With the tortures of verbal desire.
  I must use measured terms, where I love,
    And be moderate, when I admire.
  No slang must my diction adorn,
    I must never say "awfully swell."
  Alas! I feel flat and forlorn,
    I have bidden Girl-Gushing farewell!

  Since I put down my name in that book
    I have never called bonnets "divine,"
  For our Sec. with a soul-shaking look,
    Would be down on your friend with a fine.
  So the milliners now I pass by;
    Though dearly they pleased me of yore;
  If a girl musn't gush, squirm, and sigh,
    Even shopping becomes quite a bore.

  For "gorgeous" I languish in vain,
    And I pine for a "love"--and a "dear."
  Oh! why did I vow to be plain--
    In my speech? It sounds awfully queer!
  Stop! "Awfully" is not allowed.
    Though it will slip out sometimes, I own.
  Oh, I might as well sit in my shroud,
    As use moderate language alone.

  To force us fair nymphs to forego
    The hyperbole dear to our heart,
  And the slang without which speech is "slow,"
    Is to make us a "people apart."
  Oh, to say (without fines) "quite too-too!"
    For dear "awfully jolly" I yearn.
  I would "chuck" all my friends, sweet--save you--
    To the pathways of Gush to return.

