 Can it be denied that the
orders under which I sailed for the blockade of Bahia authorized me to act hostilely against
the ships and property of the crown and subjects of Portugal? Can it be denied that war was
regularly declared between the two nations? Was it not even promulgated under the sanction
of his Imperial Majesty in a document giving to privateers certain privileges which it is admitted
were possessed by the ships of war in the making and sale of captures? And yet did not the
Prize Tribunal (consisting chiefly, as I before observed, of Portuguese), on the return of
the squadron, eight months afterwards, pretend to be ignorant whether his Imperial Majesty
was at war or at peace with the kingdom of Portugal? And did they not under that pretence avoid
proceeding to adjudication? Was not this pretence a false one, or is it one of those well-founded
causes of difficulty to which your excellency alludes? Can it be denied that the squadron sailed
and acted in the full expectation, grounded on the assurance and engagements of the Government,
that all captures made under the flag of the enemy, whether ships of war or merchant vessels,
were to be prize to the captors? and yet when the prize judges were at length under the necessity
of commencing proceedings, did they not endeavour to set aside the claims of the captors by
the monstrous pretence that they had no interest in their captures when made within the distance
of two leagues from the shore? Will your excellency contend that this was a good and sufficient
reason? Was it founded in common sense, or on any rational precedent, or indeed any precedent
whatever? Was it either honest to the squadron or faithful to the country? Was it not calculated
to prevent the squadron from ever again assailing an invading enemy, or again expelling him
from the shores of the empire? Then, in the next place, did not these most extraordinary judges
pretend that at least all vessels taken in ports and harbours should be condemned as droits
to the crown, and not as prize to the captors? Was not this another most pernicious attempt
to deprive the imperial squadron not only of its reward for the past but of any adequate motive
for the risk of future enterprise? And in effect, were not these successive pretences calculated
to operate as invitations to invasions? Did they not tend to encourage the enemy to resume
his occupation of the port of Bahia, and generally to renew his aggressions against the independence
of the empire on her shores and in her ports without the probability of resistance by the squadrons
of his Imperial Majesty? And have not these same judges actually condemned almost every prize
as a droit to the crown, thereby doing as much as in them lay to defraud the squadron and to
damp its zeal and destroy its energies? Nay, have not the auditors of marine actually issued
decrees pronouncing the captures made at Maranhão to have been illegal, alleging that they
were seized under the Brazilian flag, although in truth the flag of the enemy was flying at
the time both in the forts and ships; declaring me a violator of the law of nations and law
of the land; accusing me of having been guilty of an insult to the Emperor and the empire,
and decreeing costs and damages against me under these infamous pretences? Can your excellency
perceive either justice or decency in these decrees? Do they in any degree breathe the spirit
of gratitude for the union of so important a province to the empire, or are they at all in
accordance with the distinguished approbation which his Imperial Majesty himself has evinced
of my services at Maranhão?

Can it be unknown to your excellency that the late ministers, acting doubtless under the sanction
of his Imperial Majesty, and assuredly under the guidance of common sense, held out that the
value of ships of war taken from the enemy was to be the reward of the enterprise of the captors?
And yet are we not now told that a law exists decreeing all captured men-of-war to the crown,
and so rendering the engagements of the late ministers illegal and nugatory? Can anything be
more contrary to justice, to good faith, to common sense, or to sound policy? Was it ever expected
by any government employing foreign seamen in a war in which they can have no personal rights
at stake, that those seamen will incur the risk of attacking a superior, or even an equal,
force, without prospect of other reward than their ordinary pay? Is it not notorious that even
in England it is found essential, or at least highly advantageous, to reward the officers and
seamen, though fighting their own battles, not only with the full value of captured vessels
of war, but even with additional premiums; and was it ever doubted that such liberal policy
has mainly contributed to the surpassing magnitude of the naval power of that little island,
and her consequent greatness as a nation?

Can your excellency deny that the delay, the neglect, and the conduct generally of the prize
judges, have been the cause of an immense diminution in the value of the captures? Have not
the consequences been a wanton and shameful waste of property by decay and plunder? Can your
excellency really believe in the existence of a good and sufficient motive for consigning such
property to destruction, rather than at once awarding it to the captors in recompense for their
services to the empire? Is it not true that all control over the sales and cargoes of the vessels,
most of which are without invoices, have been taken from the captors and their agents and placed
in the hands of individuals over whom they have no authority or influence, and from whom they
can have no security of receiving a just account? And can it be doubted that the gracious intentions
of his Imperial Majesty, as announced by himself, of rewarding the captors with the value of
the prizes, are in the utmost danger of being defeated by such proceedings?

Since the 12th day of February, when his Imperial Majesty was graciously pleased to signify
his pleasure in his own handwriting that the prizes, though condemned to the crown, should
be paid for to the captors, and that valuators should be appointed to estimate the amount,
is it not true that nothing whatever, up to the date of my former letter to your excellency,
had been done by his ministers and council in furtherance of such his gracious intentions?
On the contrary, is it not notorious that, since the announcement of the imperial intention,
numerous vessels and cargoes have been arbitrarily disposed of by authority of the auditors
of marine, by being delivered to pretended owners and others without legal adjudication, and
even without the decency of acquainting the captors or their agents that the property had been
so transferred? And has not the whole cost of litigation, watching and guarding the vessels
and cargoes, been entirely at the expense of the captors, notwithstanding the disposal of the
property and the receipt of the proceeds by the agents of Government and others?

So little hope of justice has been presented by the proceedings of the Prize Tribunal, that
it has appeared quite useless to label the stores found in the naval and military arsenals
of Maranhão, or the 66,000 dollars in the chests of the Treasury and Custom House, with double
that sum in bills, all of which was left for the use of the province, or permitted to be disbursed
to satisfy the clamorous troops of Ceara and Pianhy. Has any remuneration been offered to the
navy for these sacrifices, of which ministers were duly informed by my official despatches?
or has any recompense been awarded for the Portuguese brig and schooner of war, both completely
stored and equipped, which were surrendered at Maranhão, and which have ever since been employed
in the naval service? To a proportion of all this I should have been entitled in Chili, as
well as in the English service; and why, I ask, must I here be contented to be deprived of
every hope of these the fruits of my labours? In addition to the prize vessels delivered to
claimants without trial, have not the ministers appropriated others to the uses of the state
without valuation or recompense?[A]

[Footnote A: This conduct was afterwards more flagrantly exemplified on the arrival of the
new and noble prize frigate Imperatrice, the equipment whereof had cost the captors 12,000
milreas, which sum has never been returned.]

In short, is it not true that though more than a year has elapsed since the sailing of the
imperial squadron under my command, and nearly half a year since its return, after succeeding
in expelling the naval and military forces of the enemy from Bahia, and liberating the northern
provinces, and uniting them to the empire; I say is it not true that not one shilling of prize
money has yet been distributed to the squadron, and that no prospect is even now apparent of
any distribution being speedily made? Is it not true that the only substantial reward of the
officers and seamen of the squadron for the important services they have rendered has hitherto
been nothing more than their mere pittance of ordinary pay; and even that in many instances
vexatiously delayed and miserably curtailed? And with respect to myself individually, is it
not notorious that I necessarily consume my whole pay in my current expenses; that my official
rank cannot be upheld with less, and that it is wholly inadequate to the due support of the
dignity of those high honours which his Imperial Majesty has been graciously pleased to confer?

