A friend of mine (says Mr. Lambert, in his Travels,) was once present at the house of a French
lady in Canada, when a violent thunder storm commenced. The shutters were immediately closed,
and the room darkened. The lady of the house, not willing to leave the safety of herself and
company to chance, began to search her closets for the bottle of holy water, which, by a sudden
flash of lightning, she fortunately found. The bottle was uncorked, and its contents immediately
sprinkled over the ladies and gentlemen. It was a most dreadful storm, and lasted a considerable
time; she therefore redoubled her sprinklings and benedictions at every clap of thunder or
flash of lightning. At length the storm abated, and the party were providentially saved from
its effects; which the good lady attributed solely to the precious water. But when the shutters
were opened, and the light admitted, the company found, to the destruction of their white gowns
and muslin handkerchiefs; their coats, waistcoats, and breeches, that instead of holy water,
the pious lady had sprinkled them with ink. W.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUID PRO QUO.

Louis XVIII. asked the Duke of Wellington familiarly, how old he was; the latter replied, "Sire,
I was born in the year 1768." "And so was Buonaparte," rejoined the king; "Providence owed
us this compensation." C.F.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAUTICAL EPITAPHS.

In the west part of Fife, in the churchyard of the village of Torryburn, part of an epitaph
remains, which deserves notice. A part was very absurdly erased by the owner of the burying
ground, to make way for the names of some of his kindred. The whole epitaph formerly stood thus:

  At anchor now, in Death's dark road,
    Rides honest Captain Hill,
  Who served his king, and feared his God,
    With upright heart and will:
  In social life, sincere and just,
    To vice of no kind given;
  So that his better part, we trust,
     Hath made the Port of Heaven.

Another, in the parish of Duffus (Morayshire), runs thus:

  Though Eolus' blasts and Neptune's waves have toss'd me to and
    fro,
  Yet now, at last, by Heaven's decree, I harbour here below;
  Where at anchor I do lie, with others of our fleet,
  Till the last trump do raise us up our Admiral Christ to meet.
                                                 CHARLES STUART.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A DRUNKEN COBBLER.

  Enclosed within this narrow stall,
  Lies one who was a friend to awl;
  He saved bad souls from getting worse,
  But d----n'd his own without remorse;
  And tho' a drunken life he pass'd,
  Yet say'd his soul, by mending at the last! E.L.I.

       *       *       *       *       *

WATER GRUEL.

In an old paper, dated Friday, 13th Aug. 1695, is the following curious advertisement:--

"At the marine coffee-house, in Birchin-lane, is water-gruel to be sold every morning from
six till eleven of the clock. 'Tis not yet thoroughly known; but there comes such company as
drinks usually four or five gallons in a morning." G.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A clergyman being on the road to his country living, (to which he pays an annual visit,) was
stopped by a friend, who asked him where he could be going so far from town,--"Like other people,"
replied he, "to my parish." C.F.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTER C.

Curious coincidences respecting the letter C, as connected with the lamented Princess Charlotte.

