Philip was in a state of feebleness that made him willing to avoid the trouble of thinking,
by simply believing what he was told, 'that it was no bad case.' He was relieved by having
confessed, though to the person whom, a few weeks back, he would have thought the last to whom
he could have made such a communication, over whom he had striven to assume superiority, and
therefore before whom he could have least borne to humble himself--nay, whose own love he had
lately traversed with an arrogance that was rendered positively absurd by this conduct of his
own. Nevertheless, he had not shrunk from the confession. His had been real repentance, so
far as he perceived his faults; and he would have scorned to avail himself of the certainty
of Guy's silence on what he had said at the time of his extreme danger. He had resolved to
speak, and had found neither an accuser nor a judge, not even one consciously returning good
for evil, but a friend with honest, simple, straightforward kindness, doing the best for him
in his power, and dreading nothing so much as hurting his feelings. It was not the way in which
Philip himself could have received such a confidence.

As soon as Guy could leave him, he went up to his wife. 'Amy,' said he, rather sadly, 'we have
had it out. It is too true.'

Her first exclamation surprised him: 'Then Charlie really is the cleverest person in the world.'

'How? Had he any suspicion?'

'Not that I know of; but, more than once, lately, I have been alarmed by recollecting how he
once said that poor Laura was so much too wise for her age, that Nature would some day take
her revenge, and make her do something very foolish. But has Philip told you all about it?'

'Yes; explained it all very kindly. It must have cost him a great deal; but he spoke openly
and nobly. It is the beginning of a full confession to your father.'

'So, it is true!' exclaimed Amabel, as if she heard it for the first time. 'How shocked mamma
will be! I don't know how to think it possible! And poor Laura! Imagine what she must have
gone through, for you know I never spared the worst accounts. Do tell me all.'

Guy told what he had just heard, and she was indignant.

'I can't be as angry with him as I should like,' said she, 'now that he is sorry and ill; but
it was a great deal too bad! I can't think how he could look any of us in the face, far less
expect to rule us all, and interfere with you!'

'I see I never appreciated the temptations of poverty,' said Guy, thoughtfully. 'I have often
thought of those of wealth, but never of poverty.'

'I wish you would not excuse him. I don't mind your doing it about ourselves, because, though
he made you unhappy, he could not make you do wrong. Ah! I know what you mean; but that was
over after the first minute; and he only made you better for all his persecution; but I don't
know how to pardon his making poor Laura so miserable, and leading her to do what was not right.
Poor, dear girl! no wonder she looked so worn and unhappy! I cannot help being angry with him,
indeed, Guy!' said she, her eyes full of tears.

'The best pleading is his own repentance, Amy. I don't think you can be very unrelenting when
you see how subdued and how altered he is. You know you are to make him a visit to-morrow,
now the doctor says all fear of infection is over.'

'I shall be thinking of poor Laura the whole time.'

'And how she would like to see him in his present state? What shall you do if I bring him home
to Redclyffe? Shall you go to Hollywell, to comfort Laura?'

'I shall wait till you send me. Besides, how can you invite company till we know whether we
have a roof over our house or not? What is he doing now?'

'As usual, he has an unlimited capacity for sleep.'

'I wish you had. I don't think you have slept two hours together since you left off sitting up.'

'I am beginning to think it a popular delusion. I do just as well without it.'

'So you say; but Mr. Shene would never have taken such a fancy to you, if you always had such
purple lines as those under your eyes. Look! Is that a face for Sir Galahad, or Sir Guy, or
any of the Round Table? Come, I wish you would lie down, and be read to sleep.'

'I should like a walk much better. It is very cool and bright. Will you come?'

They walked for some time, talking over the conduct of Philip and Laura. Amabel seemed quite
oppressed by the thought of such a burthen of concealment. She said she did not know what she
should have done in her own troubles without mamma and Charlie; and she could not imagine Laura's
keeping silence through the time of Philip's danger; more especially as she recollected how
appalling some of her bulletins had been. The only satisfaction was in casting as much of the
blame on him as possible.

'You know he never would let her read novels; and I do believe that was the reason she did
not understand what it meant.'

'I think there is a good deal in that,' said Guy, laughing, 'though Charlie would say it is
a very novel excuse for a young lady falling imprudently in love.'

'I do believe, if it was any one but Laura, Charlie would be very glad of it. He always fully
saw through Philip's supercilious shell.'

'Amy!'

'No; let me go on, Guy, for you must allow that it was much worse in such a grave, grand, unromantic
person, who makes a point of thinking before he speaks, than if it had been a hasty, hand-over-head
man like Maurice de Courcy, who might have got into a scrape without knowing it.

'That must have made the struggle to confess all the more painful; and a most free, noble,
open-hearted confession it was.'

They tried to recollect all that had passed during that summer, and to guess against whom he
had wished to warn her; but so far were they from divining the truth, that they agreed it must
either have been Maurice, or some other wild Irishman.

Next, they considered what was to be done. Philip must manage his confession his own way; but
they had it in their power greatly to soften matters; and there was no fear that, after the
first shock, Mr. Edmonstone would insist on the engagement being broken off, Philip should
come to recover his health at Redclyffe, where he would be ready to meet the first advance
towards forgiveness,--and Amabel thought it would soon be made. Papa's anger was sharp, but
soon over; he was very fond of Philip, and delighted in a love affair, but she was afraid mamma
would not get over it so soon, for she would be excessively hurt and grieved. 'And when I was
naughty,' said Amy, 'nothing ever made me so sorry as mamma's kindness.'

Guy launched out into more schemes for facilitating their marriage than ever he had made for
himself; and the walk ended with extensive castle building on Philip's account, in the course
of which Amy was obliged to become much less displeased. Guy told her, in the evening, that
she would have been still more softened if she could have heard him talk about Stylehurst and
his father. Guy had always wished to hear him speak of the Archdeacon, though they had never
been on terms to enter on such a subject. And now Philip had been much pleased by Guy's account
of his walks to Stylehurst, and taken pleasure in telling which were his old haunts, making
out where Guy had been, and describing his father's ways.

The next day was Sunday, and Amabel was to pay her cousin a visit. Guy was very eager about
it, saying it was like a stage in his recovery; and though the thought of her mother and Laura
could not be laid aside, she would not say a word to damp her husband's pleasure in the anticipation.
It seemed as if Guy, wanting to bestow all he could upon his cousin in gratitude for his newly-accorded
friendship, thought the sight of his little wife the very best thing he had to give.

It was a beautiful day, early in September, with a little autumnal freshness in the mountain
breezes that they enjoyed exceedingly. Philip's convalescence, and their own escape, might
be considered as so far decided, that they might look back on the peril as past. Amabel felt
how much cause there was for thankfulness; and, after all, Philip was not half as bad now as
when he was maintaining his system of concealment; he had made a great effort, and was about
to do his best by way of reparation; but it was so new to her to pity him, that she did not
know how to begin.

She tried to make the day seem as Sunday-like as she could, by putting on her white muslin
dress and white ribbons, with Charles's hair bracelet, and a brooch of beautiful silver workmanship,
which Guy had bought for her at Milan, the only ornament he had ever given to her. She sat
at her window, watching the groups of Italians in their holiday costume, and dwelling on the
strange thoughts that had passed through her mind often before in her lonely Sundays in this
foreign land, thinking much of her old home and East-hill Church, wondering whether the letter
had yet arrived which was to free them from anxiety, and losing herself in a maze of uncomfortable
marvels about Laura.

'Now, then,' at length said Guy, entering, 'I only hope he has not knocked himself up with
his preparations, for he would make such a setting to rights, that I told him I could almost
fancy he expected the queen instead of only Dame Amabel Morville.'

He led her down, opened the door, and playfully announced, 'Lady Morville! I have done it right
this time. Here she is'!

She had of course expected to see Philip much altered, but she was startled by the extent of
the change; for being naturally fair and high-coloured, he was a person on whom the traces
of illness were particularly visible. The colour was totally gone, even from his lips; his
cheeks were sunken, his brow looked broader and more massive from the thinness of his face
and the loss of his hair, and his eyes themselves appeared unlike what they used to be in the
hollows round them. He seemed tranquil, and comfortable, but so wan, weak, and subdued, and
so different from himself, that she was very much shocked, as smiling and holding out a hand,
where the white skin seemed hardly to cover the bone and blue vein, he said, in a tone, slow,
feeble, and languid, though cheerful,--

'Good morning, Amy. You see Guy was right, after all. I am sorry to have made your wedding
tour end so unpleasantly.'

'Nay, most pleasantly, since you are better,' said Amabel, laughing, because she was almost
ready to cry, and her displeasure went straight out of her head.

'Are you doing the honours of my room, Guy?' said Philip, raising his head from the pillow,
with a becoming shade of his ceremonious courtesy. 'Give her a chair.'

Amy smiled and thanked him, while he lay gazing at her as a sick person is apt to do at a flower,
or the first pretty enlivening object from which he is able to derive enjoyment, and as if
he could not help expressing the feeling, he said--

'Is that your wedding-dress, Amy?'

'Oh, no; that was all lace and finery.'

'You look so nice and bridal--'

'There's a compliment that such an old wife ought to make the most of, Amy,' said Guy, looking
at her with a certain proud satisfaction in Philip's admiration. 'It is high time to leave
off calling you a bride, after your splendid appearance at the party at Munich, in all your
whiteness and orange-flowers.'

'That was quite enough of it,' said Amy, smiling.

'Not at all,' said Philip; 'you have all your troubles in the visiting line to come, when you
go home.