(Old Mistress wud give us this corn bread johnny cake about four o'clock in de evening and
give us plenty of buttermilk to drink wid it. Dey had a long trough. Dey kep' hit so clean
fur us. Ev'ry evening about four dey would fill de trough full uv milk and wus abut 100 of
us chilluns. We'd all get round de trough and drink wid our mouth and hold our johnny cake
in our han's. I can jes see mahself drinkin now. It wus so good.)

BEEF DUMPLINS Take the brough (meaning broth) from boiled beef and season with salt, peper
and add you dumplins jus as you would chicken dumplins.

Pick and wash beet tops just as you would turnip greens and cook with meat to season. Season
to suit taste. This makes the best vegetable dish.

POTATO BISCUIT Two cups flour. Two teaspoons of baking powder, pinch of soda, teaspoon of salt,
tablespoon of lard, two cups of cooked, well mashed sweet potatoes and milk to make a nice dough.

IRISH POTATO PIE Boil potatoes, set off and let cool, then mash well and add one cup sugar,
two eggs, butter size of an egg, milk, spice to suit taste, bake in pie crust. Irish potatoes
make a better pie than sweet potatoes.

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: Mose Evans Home: 451 Walnut Aged: 76

Radios from half a dozen houses blared out on the afternoon air. Ben[TR:?] Winslow was popular
but ran a poor second to jazz bands in which moaning trombones predominated.

At one or two houses a knock or jangling bell had roused nobody. "They's all off at work,"
a neighbor usually volunteered. But in this block of comfortable cottages fronting on the paved
section of Walnut evidently there were a goodly number of stay-at-homes. A mild prosperity
seemed to pervade everything. The Walnut section is in the "old part of town". Some of the
houses had evidently been built during the 90s; but they were well kept up and painted.

There was evidence here and there of former dependence on wells for water. One or two had been
simply boarded over. One, a front yard affair had been ingeniously converted into a huge flower
pot. The well had been filled in, its circular brick walls covered with a thick layer of cement.
Into this, while still damp, had been pressed crystals. Even in January the vessel bore evidence
of summer blooming.

"PREPARE TO MEET YOUR GOD" admonished the electrified box sign attatched to the front porch
of one dwelling. Its border was of black wood. The sign itself was of white frosted glass.
Letters of the slogan were in scarlet.

Next doer was another religious reminder. It was a modest pasteboard window card and announced
Bible Study at 2: P.M. daily.

Three blocks up Walnut the pavement ends. Beyond that sidewalks too, listlessly peter out.
A young, but enthusiastically growing ditch is beginning to separate path from street. Houses
begin to take on a more dilapidated appearance. They lean uncertainly.

A colored woman stops to stare at the white one, plants herself directly in the stranger's
path and demands, "Is you the investigator? No? Well who is you looking for? Oh, Mose, he's
at his son's. Good thing I stopped you. Cause you would have gone too far. He's at his son's.
His grandson just done had his tonsils out. He's over there."

The interviewer climbed the ladder-like steps leading to "his son's house". No Mose wasn't
there. He had just left. Maybe he'd gone home. The de-tonsiled child proved to be a bright
eyed, saddle-colored youngster of three, enormously interested in the stranger. He wore whip-cord
jodphurs--protruding widely on either side of his plump thighs--and knee high leather riding
boots. Plump and smiling, he looked for all the world like a kewpie provided with a kink ey
crown and blistered to a rich chocolate by a friendly sun.

The child eyed the interviewer's pencil. Since, she was carrying a "spare" she offered it to
him. He smiled and accepted with alacrity. Later when the interviewer had found Mose and brought
him back to the house to be questioned, the grandson brought forth his long new pencil and
showed it with heartfelt pride.

On up the street went the interviewer. Arrived at 451 she approached the house through a yard
strewn, with wood chips and piled with cordwood. Nobody answered her knock. Two blocks back
toward town she was stopped by the same woman who had accosted her before. "Did you find him?"
"No," replied the interviewer. "Well he's somewhere on the street. He's a'carrying a cane.
You just stop any man you see with a cane and ask him if he ain't Mose Evans." The advice was
sound/ The first elderly man coming north was carrying a cane. He was Mose Evans.

"So you-all got together?" called the officious neighbor. "Mose, you ought of asked her--when
you see her coming up the street if she wasn't looking for you." "Maybe," said Mose, "but then
I didn't know, and I don't want to butt into other folks business" "Huh," snorted the woman,
"spose I hadn't butted in. Where'd you be. You wouldn't have found her and she wouldn't have
found you!" Both Mose and the interviewer wore forced to admit that she was right--but from
Mose's disapproving expression he, like the interviewer, was sorry of it.

"No, ma'am. I ain't been here long. Just about two weeks. You want to talk to me. Let's go
on up to my son's house. We'll stop there. I's tired. Seems like I get tired awful quick. Had
to go down to the store to get some coal." (He was carrying a paper sack of about two gallon
capacity. "Coal" was probably charcoal--much favored among wash women for use in a small bucket-furnace
for heating "flat-irons".) My wife has to work awful hard to earn enough, to buy enough coal
and wood.

Did I say I'd been here two weeks? I meant I has been here two years. I's lived all over. Came
here from Woodruff county. Yes, ma'am. I can't work no more. My wife she gets 2-3 days washing
a week. Then she gets some bundles to bring home and do. She got sick, same as me and her brothers
come on down to bring her up here to look after. They provided for me too. They took good care
of us. Then one of 'em got sick himself, and the other he lost out in a money way. So she's
a washing.

Can't remember very much about the war. I was just a little thing when it was a'going on. Was
hardly any size at all. I does remember standing in the door of my mother's house and watching
the soldiers go by. Men dressed in blue they was. Wasn't afraid of them--didn't have sense
enough to be, I guess. Looked sort of pretty to me, dressed all in blue that way. And they
was riding fine horses. Made a big noise they did. They was a'riding by in a sort of sweeping
gallop. I won't never forgot it.

Guess Confederates passed too. I was too small to know about them. They was all soldiers to
me. Folks told me they was on their way to Vicksburg. I heard tell that there was lots of fighting
down around Vicksburg.

I was born on a place which belonged to a man named Thad Shackleford. Don't remember him very
well. They took me away from his place when I was little. But I never did hear my mother say
anything against him. Awful fine man, she said, awful fine man. I had lots of half sisters--5
of 'em and 6 half brothers. There was just one full sister.

Farm? Not until I was 14. Just stayed around the house and nursed the children. Nursed lots
of children. Took care of them and amused them. Played with them. But for four, five, maybe
six years I helped my mother farm. Went out into the fields and worked.

Then I went to myself. Yes, ma'am, I share cropped. Share cropped up until about 1908. By that
time I had got together a pretty good lot and bought stock and tools. Then I rented--rented
thirds and fourths. I liked that way lots best. It's best if a body can get himself stocked up.

But let me tell you, ma'am. It's a lot easier to get behind than it is to catch up. Falling
behind is easy. Catching up ain't so simple. I sort of lost my health and then I had to sell
my stock. After that it was share-crop again. I share cropped right up until 1935. That's when
we come here.

Yes, ma'am we moved around a lot. Longest what I worked for any man was 12 years. He was J.W.
Hill, the best man I ever did see. Once I rented from a colored man, but he died. Was with
him 6 years before another man came into possession. Rented from Cockerill 4 years and Doss
2 years, and Doyle 3 years. But now I's like an old shoe. I's worn out. Been a good, faithful
servant, but I's wore out."

Interviewer: S.S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Rachel Fairley
                    1600 Brown St.
                    Little Rock, Ark.
Age: 75
Occupation: General Housework
[Jan 23 1938]

[HW: Mother Stole to Get Food]

"My mother said she had a hard time getting through. Had to steal half the time; had to put
her head under the pot and pray for freedom. It was a large pot which she used to cook in on
the yard. She would set it aside when she got through and put it down and put her head under
it to pray.

"My father, when nine years old, was put on the speculator's block and sold at Charlottesville,
North Carolina. My mother was sold on the same day. They sold her to a man named Paul Barringer,
and refugeed her to a place near Sardis, Mississippi, to the cotton country. Before he was
sold, my father belonged to the Greers in Charlottesville. I don't know who owned my mother.
I never did hear her say how old she was when she was sold. They was auctioned off just like
you would sell goods. One would holler one price and another would holler another, and the
highest bid would get the slave.

"Mother did not go clear to Sardis but to a plantation ten miles from Sardis. This was before
freedom. We stayed there till two years after freedom.

"I remember when my mother moved. I had never seen a wagon before. I was so uplifted, I had
to walk a while and ride a while. We'd never seen a wagon nor a train neither. McKeever was
the place where she moved from when she moved to Sardis.

"The first year she got free, she started sharecropping on the place. The next year she moved.
That was the year she moved to Sardis itself. There she made sharecrops. That was the third
year after freedom. That is what my father and mother called it, sharecropping. I don't know
what their share was. But I guess it was half to them and half to him.

"I do general housework. I been doing that for eleven years. I never have any trouble. Whenever
I want to I get off.

"The slaves used to live in one room log huts. They cooked out in the yard. I have seen them
huts many a time. They had to cook out in the yard in the summertime. If they didn't, they'd
burn up.

"My mother seen her master take off a big pot of money to bury. He didn't know he'd been seen.
She didn't know where he went, but she seen the direction he took. Her master was Paul Barringer.
That was on McKeever Creek near Sardis. It was near the end of the war. I never heard my mother
say what became of the money, but I guess he got it back after everything was over.

"They had to work all the time. When they went to church on Sunday, they would tell them not
to steal their master's things. How could they help but steal when they didn't have nothin'?
You didn't eat if you didn't steal.

"My mother never would have been sold but the first bunch of slaves Barringer bought ran away
from him and went back to the places where they come from. Lots of the old people wouldn't
stay anywheres only at their homes. They would go back if they were sold away. It took a long
time because they walked. When my mother and father were sold they had to walk. It took them
six weeks,--from Charlottesville, North Carolina to Sardis, Mississippi.

"In Sardis my father was made the coachman, and mother was sent to the field. Master was mean
and hard. Whipped them lots. Mother had to pick cotton all day every day and Sunday. When I
first seen my father to remember him, he had on a big old coat which was given to him for special
days. We called it a ham-beater. It had pieces that would make it set on you like a basque.
He wore a high beaver hat too. That was his uniform. Whenever he drove, he had to dress up in it.

"My mother tickled me. She said she went out one day and kill a billygoat, but when she went
to get it it was walking around just like the rest of them. My mother couldn't eat hogshead
after freedom because they dried them and give them to them in slave time. You had to eat what
you could git then.

"My mother said you jumped over a broomstick when you married.

"My father and mother were not exactly sold to Mississippi. My father was but my mother wasn't.
When Paul Barringer lost all of his niggers, what he first had, his sister give him my mother
and a whole lot more of them. I don't know how many he had, but he had a great many. My father
went alone, but all my mother's people were taken--four sisters, and three brothers. They were
all grown when I first seen them. I never seen my mother's father at all.

"There was a world of yellow people then. My mother said her sister had two yellow children;
they were her master's. I know of plenty of light people who were living at that time.

"My mother had two light children that belonged to her sister. They were taken from her after
freedom, and were made to cook and work for their sister and brother (white). All the orphans
were taken and given back to the people what owned them when freedom came. My mother's sister
was refugeed back to Charlottesville, North Carolina before the end of the war so that she
wouldn't get free. After the war they were set free out there and never came back. The children
were with my mother and they had to stay with their master until they were twenty years old.
Then they would be free. They wouldn't give them any schooling at all. They were as white as
the white children nearly but their mother was a colored woman. That made the difference.

"My mother said that the Ku Klux used to come through ridin' horses. I don't remember her saying
what they wore.

"When the Yanks came through, they took everything. Made the niggers all leave. My mother said
they just came in droves, riding horses, killing everything, even the babies.

"I was born in Sardis, Mississippi, Panolun (?) County, April 10, 1863."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Pauline Fakes, Brinkley, Arkansas Age: 74

"My mama come from Virginia. Her owner was Moses Crawford. He had a bachelor son Prior Crawford.
My papa's owner was Step Crawford. They was in Arkansas during the Civil War I know because
I was born close to Cotton Plant. Papa's folks had lived in Tennessee but grandma and grandpa
was raised in Indian Nation; they called it Alabama afterwards. She was a full blooded Creek
and he was part Cherokee.

"Mama had twelve sisters and they was all sold. They took them to Texas. She never seen one
of them again. Mama had scrofula and her owners let a woman take her North. She cured her.
She wanted to keep her but they didn't let her. They kept her till freedom.

"The owners told them they was free. Stayed on a while. We never have got very fur off from
where I was born. I had thirteen children of my own. Three living now.

"I know times was mighty hard when I was a child. Biscuits was big rarity as cake is now. I
don't have much cake. Little cornbread and meat, molasses and proud to get that. We didn't
have much clothes but we had plenty wood. We had wood to keep up the fire in the fireplace
all night. They saw the back sticks in the woods and roll em up. In the coldest part of the
winter they throw on a back log of green wood and pull the seats, had benches, didn't have
chairs, way back in the middle of the room. It be snow and ice all over the ground. I got wood
many a day. Yes, I plowed many a day. I done all kinds of field work, cook and wash and iron.
Mid-wife is my talent. I been big and strong and work was the least of my worries.

"I can barely recollect seeing soldiers. They must have just got home from the war. The shiny
buttons is about all I can recollect.

"I recollect the Ku Klux. They rode at night, some dressed in dark and some white clothes.
They come through our house one time. I got under the cover. I was scared nearly to death.

"Near Cotton Plant there was a log cabin (Methodist?) church--Negro church two and one-half
miles northeast direction. They had a Negro preacher. When they went to church they whooped
and hollowed along the road. White people lived close to the road. The Ku Klux planned to break
it up. They went down there and went in during their preaching, broke up and scattered their
seats. One was killed. He may have acted 'smarty' or saucy or he may have been the leader."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mattie Fannen, Forrest City, Arkansas Age: 87

"My mother was named Silla Davis. She had four children. Her owners was Jep Davis and Tempy
Davis. She died and he married her niece, Sally Davis. He had fifteen children by his first
wife and five more by his second wife. Wasn't that a plenty children doe? Mama was a field
hand. She ploughed in slavery right along. My father was named Bob Lee (Lea?). I never knowed
much about him. His folks moved and took him off. Mother was sold but not on a stand. She belong
to Bill Davis. He was Jep's brother. They said Bill Davis drunk up mother and all her children.
He sold Aunt Serina to a man in Elberton, Georgia and all he had left then was grandma. He
couldn't sell her. She was too old and Aunt Kizziah and Aunt Martha lived with her. Mother
was born in Georgia. When a child was sold it nearly grieved the mothers and brothers and sisters
to death. It was bad as deaths in the families. Jep Davis had forty or fifty niggers. He had
six boys. They all had to go to war. They was in the Confederate army. Billy Davis was his
daddy's young overseer. He had been raised up with some of the nigger boys then come over them.
They wouldn't mind his orders. He tried to whoop them. They'd fight him back, choke him, throw
him on the ground. Then the old man would whoop them. We all wanted 'em all to come home but
Billy. Billy Davis got killed at war and never come home. His sisters was afraid some of the
nigger boys raised up with him on the place would kill him and wanted Jep to make him stay
at the house. Jep Davis was a good master and he was bad enough.

"I seen mama whooped. They tied some of them to trees and some they just whooped across their
backs. It was 'cordin' to what they had done. Some of them would run off to the woods and stay
a week or a month. The other niggers would feed them at night to keep them from starving.

"Jep Davis made a will after his first wife died and give out all his young niggers to his
first set of children. His young wife cried till he destroyed it. She said, 'You kept the old
ones here and me and my children won't have nothing.' I was willed to Miss Lizzie. They was
fixing the wagon for me to go in. I wanted to go to Jefferson on the train. I told them so.
I wanted to ride on the train. I never did get off. His young wife started crying. Miss Lizzie
lived with her brother. They didn't want this young woman to have their father and he did.
They kept a fuss up with her and all left. Then he divided the land.

"I nursed for his second wife, Miss Sally. I was five years or little older when I started
nursing for his first wife. I nursed for a long time. I don't like children yet on that account.
I got so many whoopings on their blame. I'd drap 'em, leave 'em, pinch 'em, quit walking 'em
and rocking 'em. I got tired of 'em all the time.

"Me and Zack (white) was raised up together. He was one of the old set of children. The baby
in that set. I'd set on the log across a branch and wait till Zack would break open a biscuit
and sop it in ham gravy and bring it to me after he eat his breakfast. One morning the sun
was so bright; he run down there crying, said his mama was dead. He never brought me no biscuit.
He had just got up. I was five years old. I said I was glad. Emily was the cook and she come
down there and kicked me off the log and made my nose bleed. I cried and run home. My mother
picked me up in her arms, took me in her lap and asked me about it. I told her I was glad 'cause
she kept that little cowhide and whooped me with it. They took me to the grave. She wanted
to be buried in a pretty grave at the side of the house off a piece. She was buried there first.
There was a big crowd. I kept running up towards the grave and they would pull me back by my
dress tail. She was buried in a metal coffin. Susan was the oldest girl. She fainted. They
took her to a carriage standing close. The whole family was buried there. Took back from places
they lived to be buried in that graveyard. That was close to Nuna, Georgia.

"When the old man Jep Davis married again, Miss Sally must have me sleep in her room on a pallet
so I could tend to the baby. The older girls would pick me and I would tell them what they
talked about after they went to bed.

"When the War come on, the boys and Jep Davis dug a hole in the henhouse, put the guns in a
box and buried them. They was there when the War ended. They had some jewelry. I don't know
where they kept it. They sent all of the niggers fifteen miles on the river away from the Yankees.
Not a one of us ever run off. Not a one ever went to the War or the Yankees. Jep Davis had
been to get his mail on his horse. A Yankee come up at the gate walking and took it. He asked
for the bridle and saddle but the Yankee laughed in his face. We never seen our horse no more.
'Babe' we called her. She was a pretty horse and so gentle we could ride her bare back.

"Jep Davis was religious. They had preaching at his church, the Baptist church at Nuna, for
white folks in the morning and a white preacher preach for the niggers at the same church in
the evening. He'd go to prayer meeting on Wednesday night and Thursday night he would come
to the boys' house and read the Bible to his own niggers. We would sing and pray. He never
cared how much we would sing and pray but he never better ketch 'em dancing. He'd whoop every
one of 'em.

"I learned same of the ABC's in playing ball with the white children. We never had a book.
I never went to school in my life. The boys not married but up grown lived in a house to their
own selves. They got cooked fer up at Jep Davises house till they got a house built for them
and give them a wife. Maybe they would see a woman on another plantation and claim her. Then
the master had to talk that over.

Freedom

"Jep Davis had been to town. He got a notice to free his niggers. He had the farm bell rung.
We all went out up to his house. He said, 'You are free. Go. If you can't get along come back
and do like you been.' They left. Went hog wild. I was the last one to go. He said, 'Mattie,
come back if you find you can't make it.' I had a hard time for a fact. I had a sister married
in Atlanta. I went with them in 1866. I married to better my living. We quit. I met a man come
to Arkansas and sent back for me when he got the money. I was in Atlanta thirty years. I was
married in Arkansas in 1895. Been here ever since 'ceptin' visits back in Georgia. My husband
was a good farmer and a good shoemaker. He left me six good rent houses and this house here
when he died." (She has an income of forty dollars per month--rent on houses.) "He was a hard
worker.

"I'd go to see my white folks after freedom. I loved 'em all.

"Jep Davis died out of the church. Him and Jack (Robertson, Robson, Robinson?) was deacons
together in the Baptist church and their farms j'ined. Jack had two boys, John and Ed. Ed was
killed by Hinton Right over his sister Mollie. Then she married Hinton Right. The quarrel started
at La Grange but they had a duel during preaching on the church yard at the Baptist church
at Nuna, Georgia. Jack was mean. He had a lot of Negroes and a big farm. He had two boys and
four girls. Jennie died. Florence and Lula, old maids; John and Ed and Mollie.

"Jack caused Jep Davis to be put out of the church 'cause he said after freedom he didn't believe
in slavery. He always thought they ought to be free but owned some to be like all the other
folks and to have a living easy. He was afraid to own that, fear somebody kill him before freedom.
When Jack was sick, Jep went to see him. He wouldn't let Jep come in to see him and he died.

"I worked in the field, washed and ironed. I never cooked but a little. In Atlanta when my
first baby could stand in a cracker box I started cooking for a woman. She was upstairs. Had
a small baby a few days old. I didn't have time to do the work and nurse and get my baby to
sleep. It cried and fretted till I got dinner done. I took it and got it to sleep. She sent
word for me to leave my baby at home, she wasn't going to have a nigger baby crying in her
kitchen and messing it up. She was a Yankee woman. I left and I never cooked out no more.

"I never had no dealings with the Ku Klux. I was in Atlanta then. I heard my mother say they
killed and beat up a lot of colored people in the country where she was. Seem like they was
mad 'cause they was free.

"Times was hard after freedom. Times is hard now for some folks. Times running away with the
white and black races both. They stop thinking. The thing what they call education done ruined
this country. The folks quit work and living on education. I learned to work. My husband was
a good shoemaker. We laid up all we could. I got seven houses renting around here. I gets about
forty or forty-five dollars a month rent. It do very well, I reckon."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person Interviewed: Robert Farmer
                    1612 Battery Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 84

[HW: Tale of a "Nigger Ruler"]

"I was born in North Carolina. I can't tell when. Our names are in the Bible, and it was burnt
up. My old master died and my young master was to go to the war, the Civil War, in the next
draft. I remember that they said, 'If them others had shot right, I wouldn't have had to go.'

"He talked like they were standing up on a table or something shooting at the Yankees. Of course
it wasn't that way. But he said that they didn't shoot right and that he would have to do it
for them. They all came back, and none of them had shot right. One sick (he died after he got
home); the other two come back all right.

"When my old master died, the son that drawed me stayed home for a little while. When he left
he said about me, 'Don't let anybody whip him while I am gone. If they do, I'll bury them when
I come back.' He was a good man and a good master.

Brutal Beating

"There were some that weren't so good. One of his brothers was a real bad man. They called
him a nigger ruler. He used to go from place to place and handle niggers. He carried his cowhide
with him when he went. My master said, 'A man is a damn fool to have a valuable slave and butcher
him up.' He said, 'If they need a whipping, whip them, but don't beat them so they can't work.'
He never whipped his slaves. No man ever hit me a lick but my father. No man. I ain't got no
scar on me nowhere.

"My young master was named Wiley Grave Sharpe. He drawed me when my old master, Teed Sharpe,
Sr., died. He's been dead a long time. Teed Sharpe, Jr., Gibb Sharpe, and Sam Sharpe were brothers
to Wiley Grave Sharpe. Teed Sharpe, Jr. was the brutal one. He was the nigger ruler that did
the beating up and the killing of Negroes.

"He beat my brother Peter once till Peter dropped dead. Wiley Graves who drawed me said, 'My
brother shouldn't have done that.' But my brother didn't belong to Wiley and he couldn't do
nothing about it. That was Teed, Jr.'s name. He got big money and was called a nigger ruler.
Teed had said he was going to make Peter do as much work as my sister did. She was a young
girl--but grown and stout and strong. In the olden time, you could see women stout and strong
like that. They don't grow that way now. Peter couldn't keep up with her. He wasn't old enough
nor strong enough then. He would be later, but he hadn't reached his growth and my sister had.
Every time that Peter would fall behind my sister, Teed would take him out and buckle him down
to a log with a leather strap and stand 'way back and then he would lay that long cowhide down,
up and down his back. He would split it open with every stroke and the blood would run down.
The last time he turned Peter loose, Peter went to my sister and asked her for a rag. She thought
he just wanted to wipe the blood out of his face and eyes, but when she gave it to him, he
fell down dead across the potato ridges.

Family

"Mary Farmer was my mother. William Farmer was my father. I never knowed any of my father's
'lations except one sister. She would come to see us sometimes.

"My father's master was Isaac Farmer. My mother didn't 'long to him. She 'longed to the Sharpes.
Just what her master's name was I don't recollect. She lived five miles from my father. He
went to see her every Thursday night. That was his regular night to go. He would go Saturday
night; if he went any other time and the pateroles could catch him, they would whip him just
the same as though he belonged to them. But they never did whip my father because they never
could catch him. He was one of those who ran.

"My father and mother had ten children. I don't know whether any of them is living now or not
besides myself.

How Freedom Came

"Freedom was a singsong every which way when I knowed anything. My father's master, Isaac Farmer,
had a big farm and a whole world of land. He told the slaves all of them were free. He told
his brother's slaves, 'After you have made this crop, bring your wives and children here because
I am able to take care of them.' He had a smokehouse full of meat and other things. He told
my father that after this crop is gathered, to fetch his wife and children to him (Isaac Farmer),
because Sharpe might not be able to feed and shelter and take care of them all. So my father
brought us to Isaac Farmer's farm.

"I never did anything but devilment the whole second year of freedom. I was large enough to
take water in the field but I didn't have to do that. There were so many of them there that
one could do what he pleased. The next year I worked because they had thinned out. The first
year come during the surrender. They cared for Sharpe's crop. The next year they took Isaac
Farmer's invitation and stayed with him. The third year many of them went other places, but
my father and my mother and brothers and sisters stayed with Isaac Farmer for awhile.

"As time went on, I farmed with success myself.

"I stayed in North Carolina a long time. I had a wife and children in North Carolina. Later
on, I went to Louisiana and stayed there one year and made one crop. Then I came here with
my wife and children. I don't know how long I been here. We came up here when the high water
was. That was the biggest high water they had. I worked on the levee and farmed. The first
year we came here, we farmed. I lived out in the country then.

Occupation

"While I was able to work, I stayed on the farm. I had forty acres. But after my children left
me and my wife died, I thought it would be better to sell out and pay my debts. Pay your honest
debts and everything will be lovely. Now I manages to pay my rent by taking care of this yard
and I get help from the government. I can't read and I can't write.

"I went down yonder to get help from the county. At last they taken me on and I got groceries
three times. After that I couldn't get nothin' no more. They said my papers were made out incorrectly.
I asked the worker to make it out correctly because I couldn't read and write. She said she
wasn't supposed to do that but she would do it. She made it out for me. A short time later,
the postman brought me a letter. I handed it to a lady to read for me, and she said, 'This
is your old age check.' You don't know how much help that thing's been to me.

Ku Klux

"The Ku Klux never bothered me and they never bothered any of my people.

Opinions

"The young people pass by me and I don't know nothing about 'em. I know they are quite indifferent
from what I was. When I come old enough to want a wife, I knowed what sort of wife I wanted.
God blessed me and I happened to run up on the kind of woman I wanted. I made an engagement
with her, and I didn't have a dollar. I was engaged to marry for three years before I married.
I knowed it wouldn't do for me to marry her the way she was raised and I didn't have nothing.
It looked curious for me to want that woman. I wanted her, and I had sense. I had sense enough
to know how I must carry myself to get her. Now it looks like a young man wants all the women
and ain't satisfied with nary one.

"My youngest son had a fine wife and was satisfied. He took up with what I call a whiskey head.
He's been swapping horses ever since. That is the baby boy of mine. You know good and well
a man couldn't get along that way.

"These young men will keep this one over here for a few days, and then that one over there
for a few days. It shows like he wants them all.

Voting

"I have voted. I don't now. Since I lost out, I ain't voted.

Slave Houses

"You might say slave houses was nothing. Log houses, made out of logs and chinked up with sticks
and mud in the cracks. Chimneys made with sticks and mud. Two rooms in our house. No windows,
just cracks. All furniture was homemade. Take a two by four and bore a hole in it and put a
cross piece in it and you had a bed.

"They made stools for chairs and made tables too. Food was kept in the smokehouse. For rations,
they would give so much meat, so much molasses, and so much meal. No sugar and no coffee. They
used to make tea out of sage, and out of sassafras, and that was the coffee.

Marriages

"I been married twice. The first time was out in North Carolina. The last time was in this
city. I didn't stay with that last woman but four days. It took me just that long to find out
who and who. She didn't want me; she wanted my money, and she thought I had more of it than
I did. She got all I had though. I had just fifty dollars and she got that. I am going to get
me a good woman, though, as soon as I can get divorced.

Memories of Work on Plantation

"My mother used to milk and I used to rope the calves and hold them so that they couldn't get
to the cow. I had to keep the horses in the canebrake so they could eat. That was to keep the
soldiers from getting a fine black horse the master had.

Soldiers

"But they got him just the same. The Yankees used to come in blue uniforms and come right on
in without asking anything. They would take your horse and ask nothing. They would go into
the smokehouse and take out shoulders, hams, and side meat, and they would take all the wine
and brandy that was there.

Dances After Freedom

"Two sisters stayed in North Carolina in a two-room house in Wilson County. There was a big
drove of us and we all went to town in the evening to get whiskey. There was one man who had
a wife with us, but all the rest were single. We cut the pigeon wing, waltzed, and quadrilled.
We danced all night until we burned up all the wood. Then we went down into the swamp and brought
back each one as long a log as he could carry. We chopped this up and piled it in the room.
Then we went on 'cross the swamp to another plantation and danced there.

"When we got through dancing, I looked at my feet and the bottom of them was plumb naked. I
had just bought new boots, and had danced the bottoms clean out of them.

"I belong to the Primitive Baptist Church. I stay with Dr. Cope and clean up the back yard
for my rent."

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins. Person Interviewed: Mrs. Lou Fergusson Aged: 91 Home: With daughter
Mrs. Peach Sinclair, Wade Street. [Jan 29 1938]

Zig-zaging across better than a mile of increasingly less thickly settled territory went the
interviewer. The terrain was rolling--to put it mildly. During most of the walk her feet met
the soft resistance of winter-packed earth. Sidewalks were the exception rather than the rule.

Wade Street, she had been told was "somewhere over in the Boulevard". Holding to a general
direction she kept her course. "The Boulevard", known on the tax books of Hot Springs as Boulevard
Addition, sprawls over a wide area. Houses vary in size and construction with startling frequency.
Few of them are pretentious. Many appear well planned, are in excellent state of repair and
front on yards, scrupulously neat, sometimes patterned with flower beds. Occasionally a building
leans with age, roof caving and windows and doors yawning voids--long since abandoned by owners
to wind and weather.

Up one hill, down another went the interviewer. Given a proper steer here and there by colored
men and women--even children along the way, she finally found hereself in front of "that green
house" belonging to Peach Sinclair.

Two colored women, middle aged, sat basking in the mild January sunlight on a back porch. "I
beg your pardon," said the interviewer, approaching the step, "is this the home of Peach Sinclair,
and will I find Mrs. Lou Fergusson here?"

"It sure is," the voice was cheerful. "My mother is in the house. Come around to the front,"
(the interviewer couldn't have reached the back steps, even if she had wanted to--the back
yard was fenced from the front) "she's in the parlor."

Mrs. Lou turned out to be an incredibly black, unbelievably plump-cheeked, wide smiling "motherly"
person. She seemed an Aunt Jemimah grown suddenly old, and even more mellow. "Mamma, this young
lady's come to see you. She wants to talk to you and ask you some questions, about when--about
before the war." (The situation is always delicate when an ex-slave is asked for details. Somehow
both interviewer and interviewee avoid the ugly word whenever possible. The skillful interviewer
can generally manage to pass it by completely, as well as any variant of the word negro. The
informant is usually less squeamish. "Black folks," "colored folks", "black people", "Master's
people", "us" are all encountered frequently.)

Five minutes of pleasant chatter preceeded the formal interview. Both Mrs. Sinclair and her
guest (unintroduced) sat in on the conference and made comments frequently. "Law, child, we
bought this place from your father. He was a mighty fine man." Mrs. Sinclair was delighted
to find her guest to be "Jack Hudgins daughter." And later in the chat, "You done lost everything?
Even your home--that's going? Too bad. But then I guess at that you're better off than we are.
I've been trying for nearly a year to get my mother on the old age pension. They say she has
passed. That was way along last March. Here it is January and she hasn't got a penny. No, I
know you can't help. Yes, I see what you're doing. But if ever you does get on the pensions
work--I'm going to 'hant'[A] you." (a wide grin) [Footnote A: "Hant" was an intentional barbarism.]

The old woman rocked and smiled. "Yes, ma'am. I'm her oldest, alive. She had 17 and 15 of them
lived to grow up. But I'm about as old as she is, looks like. She never did have glasses--and
today she can thread the finest needle. She can make as pretty a quilt as you'd hope to see.
Makes fine stitches too. Seems like they made them stronger in her day." A nod of delighted
approval from Mrs. Fergusson.

"I was born in Hempstead County, right here in this state. The town we were nearest was Columbus.
I lived around there all of my life until I come here to be with my daughter. That was 15 years
ago. Yes, I was born on a farm. From what I know, I'm over ninety. I was around 20 when the
war ceaseted.

The man what owned us was named Ed Johnson. Yes, ma'am he had lots of folks. Was he good to
us? Well, he was and he wasn't. He was good himself, wouldn't never have whipped us--but he
had a mean wife. She'd dog him, and dog him until he'd tie us down and whip us for the least
little thing. Then they put overseers over us. They was most generally mean. They'd run us
out way fore day--even in the sleet--run us out to the field.

Was the life hard--well it was and it wasn't. No, ma'am, I didn't get much learning. Some folks
wouldn't let their black folks learn at all. Then there was some which would let their children
teach the colored children what they learned at school. We never learned very much.

You see, Master didn't live on the place. He lived bout as far as from here to town" (fully
two miles) "The overseer looked after us mostly. No, ma'am I don't remember much about the
war. You see, they was afraid that the fighting was going to get down there so they run us
off to Texas. We settled down and made a crop there. How'd we get the land? Master rented it.

We made a crop down there and later we come back. No, ma'am we didn't stay with Mr. Johnson
more than a month after there was peace. We come on in to Washington. No, ma'am, I never heard
tell that Washington had been the Capitol of Arkansas for a while during the War. No, I never
did hear that. Guess it was when we was in Texas. Then we folks didn't hear so much anyway.

We stayed in Washington most a year. Was I with my Mother? No, ma'am I was married--married
before the war was thru. Married--does you know how we folks married in them days? Well the
man asked your mother. Then you both asked your master. He built you a house. You moved in
and there you was. You was married. I did some washing and cooking when I was in Washington.
Then we moved onto a farm. I sort of liked Washington, but I was born on a farm and I sort
of liked farm life.

We didn't move around very much--just two or three places. We raised cotton, corn, vegetables,
peas, watermelons and lots of those sort of things. No ma'am, didn't nobody think of raising
watermelons to ship way off like they does in Hempstead county now. Cotton was our cash crop.
We rented thirds and fourths. Didn't move but three times. One place I stayed 15 years.

I been a widow 40 years. Yes, ma'am. I farmed myself, and my children helped me. Me and the
owners got along well. Made good crops, me and the children. I managed to take good care of
them. Made out to raise 15 out of the 17 to be grown. There's only 5 of them alive now.

Hard on a woman to run a farm by herself. Well now, I don't know. I made out. I raised my children
and raised them healthy. I got along well with the farm owner. You might know when I was let
to stay on one place for 15 years. You know I must have treated the land right and worked it fair.

Yes ma'am I remembers lots. Seems like women folks remembers better than men. I've got a good
daughter. I'm still strong and can get about good. Guess the Lord has been good to me."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Jennie Ferrell, West Memphis, Arkansas
Age: 65

"I was born in Yellowbush County, Mississippi close to Grenada. Grandmother come from North
Carolina. They wouldn't sell grandpa. He was owned by Laston. They never met again. She brought
two boys with her. She was a Pernell. Her master brought her away and would have brought her
husband but they wouldn't sell. She said durin' her forty years in slavery she never got a
whoopin'. She was a field hand. After she come to Mississippi they was so good to her they
called her free. She was a midwife. She doctored the rich white and colored. She rode horseback,
she said, far and near. In Grenada after freedom she walked. They called her free her master
was so good to her. I don't know how she learned to be a midwife. Her master was Henry Pernell.
He owned a small place twelve miles from Grenada and another place in the Mississippi bottoms.
My folks become renters after freedom. I don't know if they rented from him but I guess they did.

"The Ku Klux never bothered them that I ever heard them mention."

Interviewer: Pernella Anderson Person interviewed: Frank Fikes, El Dorado, Arkansas Age: About 88

"My name is Frank Fikes. I live between El Dorado and Strong and I am 79 years old if I make
no mistake. I know my mama told me years ago that I was born in watermelon time. She said she
ate the first watermelon that got ripe on the place that year and it made her sick. She thought
she had the colic. Said she went and ate a piece of calamus root for the pain and after eating
the root for the pain behold I was born. So if I live and nothing happens to me in watermelon
time I will be eighty this year. I was a boy at surrender about the age of fourteen or fifteen.

"My work was very easy when I was a little slave. Something got wrong with my foot when I first
started to walking and I was crippled. I could not get around like the other children, so my
work was to nurse all of the time. Sometimes, as fast as I got one baby to sleep I would have
to nurse another one to sleep. We belonged to Mars Colonel Williams and he had I guess a hundred
families on his place and nearly every family had a baby, so I had a big job after all. The
rest of the children carried water, pine, drove up cows and held the calves off and made fires
at old mar's house.

"I had to keep a heap fire so the boys wouldn't have to beat fire out of rocks and iron. Old
miss did the cooking while all of the slaves worked. The slaves stood around the long back
porch and ate. They ate out of wooden bowls and wooden spoons. They ate greens and peas and
bread. And old miss fed all of us children in a large trough. She fed us on what we called
the licker from the greens and peas with bread mashed in it. We children did not use spoons.
We picked the bread out with our fingers and got down on our all fours and sipped the licker
with our mouth. We all had a very easy time we thought because we did not know any better then.

"I never went to church until after surrender. Neither did we go to school but the white children
taught me to read and count.

"I recollect as well today as if it had been yesterday the soldiers passing our house going
to Vicksburg to fight. The reason I recollect it so well they all was dressed in blue suits
with pretty gold buttons down the front. They passed a whole day and we watched them all day.

"Old miss and mars was not mean to us at all until after surrender and we were freed. We did
not have a hard time until after we were freed. They got mad at us because we was free and
they let us go without a crumb of anything and without a penny and nothing but what we had
on our backs. We wandered around and around for a long time. Then they hired us to work on
halves and man, we had a hard time then and I've been having a hard time ever since.

"Before the War we lived in log cabins. There was a row of log cabins a quarter of a mile long.
No windows and no floor. We had grass to sit on. Our beds was made of pine poles nailed to
the wall and we slept on hay beds. My mama and other slaves pulled grass and let it dry to
make the beds with. Our cover was made from our old worn out clothes.

"On Sunday evenings we played. We put on clean clothes once a week. In summer we bathed in
the branch. We did not bathe at all in winter. I went in my shirt tail until I was eleven or
twelve years old. Back in slavery time boys did not wear britches. They wore shirts and our
hair was long. The slaves say if you cut a child's hair before he or she was ten or twelve
years old they won't talk plain until they are that old."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: J.E. Filer, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 76

"I was born in Washington, Georgia. I come here in 1866. There was three stores in Marianna.
My parents name Betsy and Bob Filer. My mother belong to Collins in Georgia. She come to this
state with Colonel Woods. She worked in the field in Georgia and here too. Mama said they always
had some work on hand. Work never played out. When it was cold and raining they would shuck
corn to send to mill. The men would be under a shelter making boards or down at the blacksmith
shop sharpening up the tools so they could work.

"Since we come to this state I've seen them make oak boards and pile them up in pens to dry
out straight. I don't recollect that in Georgia. I was so little when we come here. I can recollect
that but not much else. My brother was older. He might tell all about it."

[TR: Next section crossed out] Interviewer's Comment

I didn't get to see his brother. I went twice more but he was at work on a farm somewhere.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor Subject: Ex-slavery [May 11 1938]

Person Interviewed: Orleans Finger [TR: In text of interview, Orleana]
                    Negro (Apparently octoroon or quadroon)
Address: 2804 West Fifteenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas.
Occupation: Formerly field hand and housekeeper
Age: 79
[TR: Personal information moved from bottom of first page.]

Birth, Family, and Master

"I was born in Mississippi in Tippa County not far from the edge of Tennessee. I wasn't raised
in Arkansas, but all my children was raised here. I really don't know just where in Tippa county
I was born. My mother's name was Ann Toler. Toler was my step father. My real father, I don't
know. My mother never told me nothin' bout him and I don't know that; I can't tell what I don't
know.

"My grandfather on my mother's side was Captain Ellis. That is the one come after me when I
was small to carry me back to my folks. I didn't know him, and I said 'I don't want to go 'way
with them strange Niggers'. He's dead now. They're all dead long ago. I have got children over
fifty years old myself. I am the mother of nine children--three of them living. One of the
living ones is Arthur Finger. He lives in St. Louis. I expected to hear from him today, but
didn't. Cornelius Finger. (He is a brownskin boy, spare made), lives in Palestine, Arkansas,
near Forrest City. Arthur is my baby boy. Elmira was my baby girl. She's the one you met. She's
married and has children of her own.

"Captain Ellis' wife was named Minerva. She was my mother's mother. She's been dead years.
I got children older than she was when she died. She died in Mississippi. I got a cousin named
Molly Spight. She's dead. My mother's sister was named Emmaline; she is dead now too.

"My mother was colored. I don't know nothin' about my father, and my mother never taught me
nothin' 'bout him.

"My step father and mother were both field hands. They worked in the field.

"I don't know just when I was born, but I am just sure that it was before the war. I remember
hearing people talk about things in the war.

"My mother's master was named Whitely, I think, because she was named Whitley before she married.

"I have been married three times. The first man I married was 'Lijah Gibbs. The second time
I married, I married Joe Finger. The third time I married Will Reese. He warn't no husband
at all. They're all dead. Folks always called me Finger after my second husband died, because
I didn't live with my third husband long.

House

"They had log houses. You would never see no brick chimney nor nothing of that kind. The logs
were notched down and kinda kivered flat--no roof like now. They might have rafters on them,
but the top was almost flat. Wouldn't be any steep like they is now. In them times they wouldn't
have many rooms. Sometimes they would have two. They wouldn't have so many windows. Just old
dirt chimneys. They'd take and dig a hole and stick sticks up in it. Then they'd make up the
dirt and put water in it and pull grass and mix it in the dirt. They'd build a frame on the
sticks and then put the mud on. The chimney couldn't catch fire till the house got old and
the mud would fall off. When it got old and the mud got to fallin off, then they would be a
fire. I've seen that since I been in Arkansas.

"Sometimes they would get big rocks and put them inside the fireplace to take the place of
bricks. You could get rocks in the forest.

Furniture

"Used to have ropes and they would cord the bed stead. The cords would act in place of springs.
When you move you would have a heap of trouble because all that would have to be undone and
done up again. You have to take the cords out and them put it together again. The cords would
be run through the sides of the bed and stuck in with pegs.

"They used to have spinning wheels and looms. They made clothes and they made the cloth for
the clothes and they spun the thread they made the cloth our of. They'd card and spin the thread.
There's lots of other things I can't remember.

War Memories

"The Yankess used to come in and have the people cook for them. They'd kill chickens and geese
and things. The old people used to take their horses out and tie them out in the woods--hiding
them out to keep the Yankees from getting them. The Yankees would ride up, take a good horse
and leave the old worn-out one.

"There never was any fighting round where I lived. None of my folks was soldiers in the war.

Right After the War

"I don't remember just what my folks did right after the war. They were field hands and I guess
they did that. My mother worked in the field that's all I know.

Life Since the War

"I have been in Arkansas a long time. I have been here ever since I left Mississippi. My first
marriage was in Mississippi. The second and last ones was in Arkansas--Forrest City. My second
husband had been dead since 1921. I don't know that I count Reese. We married in June and separated
in September. He's dead now, and I don't hold nothin' against him.

"I am not able to work now. I do a little 'round the house and dig a little in the garden.
I haven't worked in the field since way before 1921. I don't get no help at all from the Welfare.
My daughter does what she can for me. I always have lived before I ever heard about the old
age pension and I suppose God will take care of me yet somehow.

Cured by Prayer

"I'm puny and no'count. Aint able to do much. But I was crippled. I had a hurting in my leg
and I couldn't walk without a stick. Finally, one day I went to go out and pick some turnips.
I was visiting my son in Palestine. My leg hurt so bad that I talked to the Lord about it.
And it seemed to me, he said 'Put down your stick.' I put it down and I aint used it since.
I put it down right thar and I aint used it since. God is a momentary God. God knowed what
I wanted and he said, 'Put down that sick,' and I aint been crippled since. It done me so much
good. Looks like to me when I get to talking about the Lord, aint nobody a stranger to me.

"I know I been converted but that made me stronger. My son is a siner. He knowed about how
I was crippled. He said you ought use your stick. He didn't know what to think about it. Young
folks don't believe because they aint had no experience with prayer and they don't know what
can happen.

"I done told you all I know. I don't want to tell you anything I don't know. If you don't know
nothing, it is best to say you don't."

Everything which Orleana Finger states has the earmarks of being true. There are a great many
things which she does not state which I believe that she could state if she wished. She evidently
has a long list of things which she things should be unmentioned. She has two magic phrases
with which she dismisses all subjects which she does not wich to discuss:

"I don't remember that."

"I better quit talking now before I start lying."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Molly Finley, Honey Creek
                    3-1/2 miles from Mesa, Arkansas
Age: Born 1865

"My master was Captain Baker Jones and his pa was John Jones. Miss Mariah was Baker Jones'
wife. I believe the old man's wife was dead.

"My parents' name was Henry ("Clay") Harris and Harriett Harris. They had nine children. We
lived close to the Post (Arkansas Post). Our nearest trading post was Pine Bluff. And the old
man made trips to Memphis and had barrels sent out by ship. We lived around Hanniberry Creek.
It was a pretty lake of water. Some folks called it Hanniberry Lake. We fished and waded and
washed. We got our water out of two springs further up. I used to tote one bucket on my head
and one in each hand. You never see that no more. Mama was a nurse and house woman and field
woman if she was needed. I made fires around the pots and 'tended to mama's children.

"We lived on the Jones place years after freedom. I was born after freedom. We finally left.
I cried and cried to let's go back. Only place ever seem like home to me yet. We went to the
Cummings farm. They worked free labor then. Then we went to the hills. Then we seen hard times.
We knowed we was free niggers pretty soon back in them poor hills.

"I was more educated than some white folks up in them hills. I went to school on the river.
My teacher was a white man named Mr. Van Sang.

"Mama belong to the Garretts in Mississippi. She was sold when she was about four years old
she tole me. There had been a death and old mistress bought her in. Master Garrett died. Then
she give her to her daughter. She was her young mistress then. Old mistress didn't want her
to bring her but she said she might well have her as any rest of the children. Mama never set
eyes on none of her folks no more. Her father, she said, was light and part Enjun (Indian).

"John Prior owned papa in Kentucky. He sold him, brother and his mother to a nigger trader's
gang. Captain Jones bought all three in Tennessee. He come brought them on to Arkansas. He
was a field hand. He said they worked from daylight till after dark.

"They took their slaves to close to Houston, Texas to save them. Captain Jones said he didn't
want the Yankees to scatter them and make soldiers of them. He brought them back on his place
like he expected to do. Mama said they was out there three years. She had a baby three months
old and the trip was hard on her and the baby but they stood it. I was her next baby after
that. Freedom done been declared. Mama said they went in wagons and camped along the roadside
at night.

"Before they left, the Yankees come. Old Master Jones treated them so nice, give them a big
dinner, and opened up everything and offered some for them to take along that they didn't bother
his stock nor meat. Then he had them (the slaves) set out with stock and supplies to Texas.

"Mama and papa said the Jones treated them pretty well. They wouldn't allow the overseers to
beat up his slaves.

"The two Jones men put two barrels of money in a big iron chest. They said it weighed two hundred
pounds. Four men took it out there in barrels and eight men lowered it. They took it to the
family graveyard down past the orchard. They leveled it up like it was a grave. Yankees didn't
get Jones money! Then he sent the slaves to Texas.

"Captain Jones had a home in Tennessee and one in Arkansas. Papa said he cleared out land along
the river where there was panther, bears, and wild cats. They worked in huddles and the overseers
had guns to shoot varmints. He said their breakfast and dinner was sent to the field, them
that had wives had supper with their families once a day, on Sundays three times. The women
left the fields to go fix supper and see after their cabins and children. They hauled their
water in barrels and put it under the trees. They cooked washpots full of chicken and give
them a big picnic dinner after they lay by crops and at Christmas. They had gourd banjos. Mama
said they had good times.

"They had preaching one Sunday for white folks and one Sunday for black folks. They used the
same preacher there but some colored preachers would come on the place at times and preach
under the trees down at the quarters. They said the white preacher would say, 'You may get
to the kitchen of heaven if you obey your master, if you don't steal, if you tell no stories, etc.'

"Captain Jones was a good doctor. If a doctor was had you know somebody was right low. They
seldom had a doctor. Mama said her coat tail froze and her working. But they wore warm clothes
next to their bodies.

"Captain Jones said, 'You all can go back on my place that want to go back and stay. You will
have to learn to look after your own selves now but I will advise you and help you best I can.
You will have to work hard as us have done b'fore. But I will pay you.' My folks was ready
to 'board the wagons back to Jones' farm then. That is the way mama tole me it was at freedom!
It was a long time I kept wondering what is freedom? I took to noticing what they said it was
in slavery times and I caught on. I found out times had changed just b'fore I got into this world.

"Some things seem all right and some don't. Times seem good now but wait till dis winter. Folks
will go cold and hungry again. Some folks good and some worse than in times b'fore."

Interviewer's Comment

Gets a pension check.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Fanny Finney, Brinkley, Arkansas Age: 74 plus

"I was born in Marshall County, Mississippi. Born during slavery. I b'long to Master John Rook.
He died during the Civil War. Miss Patsy Rook raised me. I put on her shoes, made up her bed,
fetched her water and kindling wood.

"My parents named Catherine and Humphrey Rook. They had three children.

"When Master John Rook died they divided us. They give me to Rodie Briggs. John and Lizzie
was Master John's other two children. He had three children too same as ma. My young master
was a ball player. I'd hear them talk. Ma was a good house girl. They thought we'd all be like
'er. When I was three years old, I was the baby. They took ma and pa off keep the Yankees from
stealing then. Miss Patsy took keer me. When ma and pa come home I didn't know them a tall.
They say when they come back they went to Louziana, then 'bout close to Monticello in dis state,
then last year they run 'em to Texas.

"Pa was jus' a farmer. Gran'ma lived down in the quarters and kept my sisters. I'd start to
see 'em. Old gander run me. Sometimes the geese get me down and flog me wid their wings. One
day I climbed up and peeped through a crack. I seen a lot of folks chopping cotton. It looked
so easy. They was singing.

"Betsy done the milking. I'd sit or stand 'round till the butter come. She ax me which I wanted,
milk or butter. I'd tell her. She put a little sugar on my buttered bread. It was so good I
thought Sometimes she'd fill my cup up with fresh churned milk.

"I et in the kitchen; the white folks et in the dining-room. I slep' in granny's house, in
granny's bed, in the back yard. Granny's name was 'Aunt' Hannah. She was real old and the boss
cook on our place. She learnt all the girls on our place how to cook. Kept one or two helping
her all the time. It was her part to make them wash their faces every morning soon as they
started a fire and keep their hands clean all the time er cooking. Granny wore her white apron
around her waist all time. Betty would make them help her milk. They had to wash the cows udder
before they ever milked a drop. Miss Patsy learnt her black folks to be clean. Every one of
them neat as a pin sure as you born.

"I was so little I couldn't think they got whoopings. I never heard of a woman on the place
being whooped. They all had their work to do. Grandma cut out and made pants for all the men
on the whole farm.

"Old man Rook raised near 'bout all his niggers. He bought whiskey by the barrel. On cold mornings
they come by our shop to get their sacks. I heard them say they all got a drink of whiskey.
His hands got to the field whooping and singing. The overseers handed it out to them. The women
didn't get none as I knowed of.

"The paddyrollers run 'em in a heap but Master John Rook never let them whoop his colored folks.

"We lived six miles from Holly Springs on the big road to Memphis. Seem like every regiment
of Yankee and rebel soldiers stopped at our house. They made a rake-off every time. They cleaned
us out of something to eat. They took the watches and silverware. The Yankees rode up on our
porch and one time one rode in the hall and in a room. Miss Patsy done run an' hid. I stood
about. I had no sense. They done a lot every time they come. I watched see what all they would
do. They burnt a lot of houses.

"A little white boy said, 'I tell you something if you give me a watermelon.' The black man
give the boy a big watermelon. He had a big patch. The boy said, 'My papa coming take all your
money away from you some night.' He fixed and sure 'nough he come dressed like a Ku Klux. He
had some money but they didn't find it. One of the Ku Kluxes run off and left his spurs. The
colored folks killed some and they run off and leave their horses. They come around and say
they could drink three hundred fifteen buckets of water. They throw turpentine balls in the
houses to make a light. They took a ball of cotton and dip it in turpentine, light it, throw
it in a house to make a light so they could see who in there. A lot of black folks was killed
and whooped. Their money was took from them.

"The third year after the War ma and pa come and got me. They made a crop for a third. That
was our first year off of Rook's place. I love them Rook's girls so good right now. Wish I
could see them or knowd where to write. I had to learn my folks. I played with my sisters all
my life but I never had lived with them. When pa come for me they had my basket full of dresses
and warm underclothes, clean and ironed. They sent ma some sweet potatoes and two big cakes.
One of them was mine. Miss Patsy said, 'Let Fannie come back to see my girls.' I went back
and visited. Granny lived in her house and cooked till she died. I had a place with granny
at her house. We went back often and we helped them after freedom. They was good white folks
as ever breathed. There was good folks and bad folks then and still is.

"Times is hard. I was raised in the field. I made seven crops here--near Brinkley--with my
son. I had two girls. One teaches in Brinkley, fourth or fifth grade; one girl works for a
family in New York. My son fell off a tall building he was working on and bursted his head.
He was in Detroit. Times is hard now. The young folks is going at too fast a gait. They are
faster than the old generation. No time to sit and talk. On the go all the time. Hurrying and
worrying through time. Hard to make a living."

Interviewer: Zillah Cross Peel Information given by: "Gate-eye" Fisher Residence: Washington
County, Arkansas

"I was jes' a baby crawlin' 'round on the floor when War come" said "Gate-eye" Fisher, who
lives in a log house covered with scraps of old tin, on what is known as the old Bullington
farm near Lincoln. His one room log cabin is "down in the bresh" back of the barn and when
new renters come on the place, they just take it for granted that "Gate-eye" just belongs.
He bothers no one. No floors, no windows just a door, a bed, stove and a table. Yes and a lantern
and a chair.

"Yes mam, my mother, Caroline, belonged to the Mister Dave Moore family. His wife, Miss Pleanie,
was a Reagan. Yes mam, they was good folks. When the War come, my pa, Harrison Fisher and my
ma stayed on the place, Mister Moore had lots of land and stock--and he and his folks went
to Texas, nearly everybody did 'round here, and he took some of his fine stock with him but
he called my pa and ma in and told them he wanted them to stay on the place and take care of
all the things. Pa was boss over all the slaves. I guess mos' all my white folks is dead. Mos'
of them all buried down yan way to Ft. Smith. One of Mister Moore's daughters, Miss Mary, married
Dr. Davenport and Miss Sinth (Cynthia) went to live with her."

(The Moores came from Kentucky and Tennessee and settled at Cane Hill, Washington County, about
1829. The Reagans came about the same time. The first schools in the county were at Cane Hill).

"Yes mam, I guess all the colored folks that belonged to Mister Moore, but me, is dead. I guess.
My mother, Caroline, stayed in the house nearly all the time and took care of Missy's children,
and when they come home from school she'd hear them learn their ABC's. That's how come I can
read and write. My ma taught me, out of an old Blue Back Speller. Yes mam, I learned to read
and can't write much, jes my own name. Yes mam, I kinda believe in signs that's how come I
wear this leather strap 'round my wrist it keeps me from havin' rheumatism, neuralgia. Yes
mam, it helps. I used to believe in signs a lot and I used to believe in wishes. I used to
wish a lot of bad wishes on folks till one day I read a piece from New York and it said the
bad wishes that you made would come back to you wosser than you wished, so I don't wish no
more. I got scared and don't wish nothin' to no body."

"After the War Ole Mister and Ole Missey called in my ma and pa and asked them if they wanted
to still stay on the place or go somewhere. 'Bout ten of us stayed. Then a while after Mister
Moore asked my pa if he wanted to go up on the Tilley place--600 acres and farm it for what
he could make. We, my pa and my ma and my sister Mandy, stayed there a long time. Then Mister
Moore sold off a little here and a little there and we moved up on the mountain with my sister
and her husband, Peter Doss, where my ma died. Then I went down to Mister Oscar Moore's place--he
was my Missey' boy."

"Yes mam, I did have a wife. I had a mos' worrysome time. It is a worrysome time when a man
comes to takes your wife right away from you. No'm, I don't ever want her to come back."

"Yes'm, I do my own cooking, and I've put up some fruit. I have a little mite of meat, a little
mite of taters, a little mite of beans and peas. I get a little pension too."

"These darkies today nearly all get wild. You can't tell What they are going to do tomorrow.
They's jes like everybody--some awful good and some awful bad."

And in the tiny one room shack, of logs and tin, no window, a swing door held by a leather
strap, "Gate-eye" does his cooking on a small wood stove. A long bench holds a lantern with
a shingly clean globe, a lot of canned fruit, dried beans and peas. The bed is a series of
old bed springs. But "Gate-eye" just belongs to the neighborhood, and every one feels kindly
toward him. He says he is seventy-one years, past.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Ellen Fitzgerald
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 74

"Mama was named Anna Noles. Papa named Milias Noles. She belong to the Whitakers and he belong
to Gibbs. Noles bought them both. They was both sold. Mother was born in Athens, papa somewhere
in Kentucky. Their owners, the Noles, come to Aberdeen, Mississippi.

"Grandma, papa's mama, was killed with a battling stick. She was a slender woman, very tall
and pretty, papa told me. She was at the spring, washing. They cut a tree off and make a smooth
stump. They used a big tree stump for battling. They had paddles, wide as this (two hands wide--eight
or ten inches) with rounded-off handle, smoothed so slick. They wet and soap the clothes, put
em on that block-tree stump and beat em. Rub boards was not heard of in them days. They soaked
the clothes, boiled and rinsed a heap. They done good washing. I heard em say the clothes come
white as snow from the lye soap they used. They made the soap. They had hard soap and soft
soap, made from ashes dripped and meat skins. They used tallow and mutton suet too. I don't
know what was said, but I recken she didn't please her mistress--Mrs. Callie Gibbs. She struck
her in the small part of her back and broke it. She left her at the spring. Somebody went to
get water and seen her there. They took her to the house but she finally died. Grandpa was
dead then. I recken they got scared to keep papa round then and sold him.

"I was born first year of the surrender. Moster Noles told them they was free. They didn't
give them a thing. They was glad they was free. They didn't want to be in slavery; it was too
tied down to suit em. They lived about places, do little work where they found it.

"We dodged the Ku Klux. One night they was huntin' a man and come to the wrong house. They
nearly broke mama's arm pullin' her outen our house. They give us some trouble coming round.
We was scared of em. We dodged em all the time.

"I was married and had a child eight years old fore I come to Arkansas. I come to Brinkley
first. I was writing to friends. They had immigrated, so we immigrated here and been here ever
since. When I come here there was two big stores and a little one. A big sawmill--nothing but
woods and wild animals. It wasn't no hard times then. We had a plenty to live on.

"My husband was a saw mill hand and a railroad builder. He worked on the section. I nursed,
washed, ironed, cooked, cleaned folks houses. We done about right smart. I could do right smart
now if white folks hire me.

"The night my husband died somebody stole nearly every chicken I had. He died last week. We
found out it was two colored men. I ain't needed no support till now. My husband made us a
good living long as he was able to go. We raised a family. He was a tolerably dark sort of
man. My girls bout his color."

The two grown girls were "scouring" the floor. Both of them said they were married and lived
somewhere else.

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: Henry Fitzhugh Aged: 90 Home: Rooms at 209
Walnut Street

Several "colored" districts are scattered throughout Hot springs. On Whittington, within a
block of the First Presbyterian Church and St. Joseph's Infirmary stand the Roanok Baptist
and the Haven Methodist (both for colored). Architecturally they compare favorably with similar
edifices for whites. Their choirs have become nationally famous. Sunday afternoon concerts
are frequent. Mid-week ones are not uncommon. At such times special sections are reserved for
whites, and are usually filled. Visitors to the resort enjoy them immensely.

Across the street a one-time convent school has been converted into a negro apartment house.
A couple of blocks up Whittington, Walnut veers to the right. It is paved for several blocks.
Fronting on concrete sidewalks are houses, well painted and boasting yards which indicate pride
in possession. Some are private homes, some rooming houses and some apartments. Porch flower
boxes and urns are mostly of concrete studded with crystals.

Finding Henry Fitzhugh wasn't easy. The delivery boy at the corner chain store "knows everybody
in the neighborhood" according to a passer-by. He offered the address 209. That number turned
out to be an old, but substantial and well cared for two story house. Ringing the bell repeatedly
brought no response.

A couple of women in the yard next door announced that to find Fitzhugh one had to "go around
back and knock on the last door on the back porch." This procedure too brought no results.
Another backyard observer offered the suggestion that Fitzhugh was probably down at the restaurant
eating.

School had just been dismissed. Two well dressed negro children walked along together, swinging
their books. "Can you tell me where the restaurant is?" asked the interviewer, stopping them.
"Do you mean the colored restaurant?" one of the tots asked, not a whit of embarrassment in
her manner, no servility, no resentment--just an ordinary question. "It's right over there."

The restaurant proved to be large, well lighted, scrupulously clean. Tables were well spaced
and quite a distance from the counter. Sunshine streamed in from two directions. Fitzhugh was
sitting just outside talking to the boot-black.

"Yes, ma'am, I's Henry Fitzhugh. Can't work no more since I got hit by an automoble. Before
that I had a shoe-shine place myself. But I can't work no more. Yes 'um I gets the pension.
I gets $10 a month. It's not much, but I sort of get by. I's got my room up at 209 and I gets
my meals down here at the restaurant. Yes ma'am, pensions seem to be coming in pretty regular now.

Been in Hot Springs a long, long time. Come here in 1876. I remembers lots of the old families
here. What yo say your name was? Your Mother was a Dengler? Sure, I remembers the Denglers.
Mr. Dengler had a soda-water shop. I remembers him.

When I first come, soon as I was able, I cleaned up for Captain Mallard. Cleaned up all along
Central in that block he was in.

How'd I come to Hot springs? I was sick. I had rheumatism. Was down with it so bad the doctor
had done give me up. He'd stopped giving me medicine. But the lady I was working for, she run
a hotel in Poplar Bluff. They put me on a stretcher and they put me in the baggage car and
they brought me clean on in to Hot Springs. They bathed me at the free bath house. I started
getting better right away. 'Twasn't long before I was well and able to work. I stayed right
on here in Hot Springs.

Yes, ma'am I's all Arkansas. I was born near Little Rock. Ain't never been out of the state
but twice. Then I didn't stay long.

I worked on a farm that belonged to Mr. J.B. Henderson. He was an uncle to Mr. Jerome Henderson
what was in the bank and Mr. Jethro Henderson what was a Judge.

No, the war didn't bother us none. We wasn't afraid. We heard the shots, but it seemed just
like a whole lot of fire crackers to us. Guess we just didn't have sense enough to be afraid.
Fighting we did [HW: hear was] near Pine Bluff--the Baxter-Ware trouble. We seen the soldiers
when they come through Mt. Pleasant, right smart bunch of them. They was Confederates. We didn't
see none of the Yankees.

My father was killed during the war. Went off to help and never came back. My mother, she died
when I was a baby. She was lying down in her cabin before the fire--lying on the hearth, letting
me nurse. The door was open and a gust of wind blew her dress in the fire. She dropped me and
she screamed and run out into the yard. Old Miss saw her from the house. She grabbed a quilt
and started out. She got to my mother and she wrapped her in the quilt to smother out the fire.
But my mother done swallowed fire. She died. That's the story they tell me. I was too little
to know.

I guess I was about eleven when I went into the fields. What's that, pretty young? I didn't
go because they made me. I went because I wanted to be with the men. Wasn't nobody around to
play with. We was the only family on the farm. It was a pretty good sized farm and they had
lots of children. There was Miss Sally and Miss Fanny and Miss Ella and Miss Myrtle and Miss
Hattie. Then there was four boys.

Stayed on with the folks three years after the surrender. They treated me good and gave me
what I wanted. Treated me nice--very nice--my white folks.

Then I went on down to Marshall--way down in Texas. There I worked for the high sheriff. Drove
his carriage for him and cleaned up around the yard. I worked for him a whole year then I went
back to Arkansas and then went up in Missouri. Wasn't there long before I got sick. I was working
for a woman who had a hotel. She was good to me. Mighty good she was.

Yes ma'am. There has been lost chances I has had to do more than I has. But I's sort of satisfied.
There's been lots of changes in Hot Springs since I come. I used to know all the white folks
and all the colored folks too. Can't do that today. Place has got too big.

Joe Golden? Yes, I does--I knows Joe. He used to have a butcher shop over on Malvern. Quite
a man, Joe was. I hasn't seen him in a long time. How is he? Pretty good? That's fine.

"I remembers Mc--McLeod's Happy Hollow." (Hot Spring nearest approach to a Coney Island in
the earlier days). "I remembers that they used to have the old stage coach there what the James
and Younger brothers held up. Sort of broken down it was, but it was there.

Law, law, them was the times. I'll never forget when Allen Roane brought in the news. Allen
drove a sort of a hack. He come on into town and he whipped up his horse and he run all over
town telling about the hold-up. Allen lived just next door to where I does now."

Down the street passed a colored woman, her head held high. Passing the porch where the aged
negro man and the young white woman sat talking she paused and gave what was suspiciously like
a sniff. Fitzhugh grinned. "She's sanctified," he explained.

"Did you ever hear of Tucky-Nubby? He was an Indian. Bob Hurley used to bring him to Hot Springs
every year. What medicine shows they used to have here. Ain't seen nothing like it lately,
everybody knowed Tucky-Nubby. Lots of those medicine shows--free shows, used to come here.
But Bob Hurley and Tucky-Nubby was the most liked.

Yes, ma'am, I'm all alone now. My sister married a man a long, long time ago. She didn't live
but a couple of years. I's had four children. One of them died when it was born. One died when
it was three. One lived until it was seven. One son he lived to be grown. He went to the war.
Got as far as camp. One day I got a word saying that he was sick. I went but before I could
get there he had died. That left me alone.

What's that? Been married once? I been married eleven times. But it was ten times too many.
Besides they is all dead, so you might say that I's been married only once.

Yes, ma'am. Thank you ma'am. The quarter will come in powerful handy. When you tries to make
out on $10 a month a little extra comes in powerful handy. Thank you ma'am. I enjoyed talking
to you, ma'am."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Mary Flagg
                    1601 Georgia Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 89

"Yes'm, I was here in Civil War days. I was bout twelve years old when Lincoln was elected.
I remember when he was elected. I was big enough to weave and knit for the soldiers. I remember
when the war started. Yes ma'm--oh I remember so much. Saw all the soldiers and shook hands
with em. Why I waited on the table when General Lee stopped there for dinner on his way from
Mobile to meet Sherman. That was in Winchester, Mississippi where I was born. I worked in a
hotel, yes ma'm. I was raised up in a hotel, called em taverns in those days. I was born right
in Winchester, Mississippi. Used to see the soldiers drill every day. If I could remember,
I could tell you a heap of things.

"My mistress' name was Mrs. Shaw. She took me away from my mother when I was four years old--taken
me for her body servant. She learned me how to do housework and all kinds of sewin'--cuttin'
and makin'. I done all the sewin' for her family.

"I never went to no school but Mrs. Shaw tried to teach me and she slapped my jaws many a day
bout my book.

"I married when I was fifteen just fore the war ended and I forgot everything I ever learned--yes
ma'm! I been married four times and they're all dead. I never married when any of em was livin'
like a heap of colored folks did.

"The Yankees come within fifty miles of where we was livin' and then they burned the bridge
and turned back. White folks never told us what the war was for but a old German man used to
read the paper at the table--every battle they'd fight and when the Yankees would whip. Oh
them was times then. If I could remember I could tell you a heap of things but my mind's gone
from me.

"Old master had about a hundred head of hands and old mistress had a cousin had five hundred.

"White folks was good to me. My father was the carriage driver and old mistress used to carry
me to church with her every Sunday.

"I never seen no Ku Klux but I lived where they was, in Mississippi. That was a Ku Klux state.
Yes ma'm.

"I remember when General Lee come to Winchester you could hear the horses' feet a mile away,
it so cold.

"My great grandfather was a full blooded Indian. I've lived among the Indians in Mississippi
and bought baskets from em. They lived all around us. Yes ma'm, I'm acquainted with em. Oh,
I been through a little bit.

"I started sewin' and weavin' when I was just big enough to reach the treadles. Used to sew
for Mrs. Hulburt in Bolivar County, Mississippi. I remember she started to the Mardi Gras on
a boat called the Mary Bell. It got burned and she had to turn back. I used to do a heap a sewin'.

"Everythings changed now. People is so treacherous now. Chile, ain't nothin' to this younger
generation. Now I'm tellin' you the truth. They ain't studyin' nothin' good. Sin and corruption
all you see now.

"Last man I married was Elder Flagg. He was a preacher in the Baptist church and as good a
preacher as I ever heard. They don't preach the Gospel now.

"Well, I wish I could remember more to tell you, but it's been a long time. I'll be ninety
if I live till the 4th of next May."

Interviewer: Mrs. Zillah Cross Peel Person interviewed: Doc Flowers Age: 85? Home: Lincoln,
Arkansas

Everybody calls him Uncle Doc. His name is Doc Flowers, and he lives in the last house on a
street that is just part of a road in the town of Lincoln, Arkansas.

When you stop in front of the house you will find there is no path. One has to watch his step
owing to the fact that there is a zigzaggy branch hidden by the tangle of weeds.

If old Aunt Jinney is on the porch she will say, "Sorry, honey, but de path done growed up."

Uncle Doc is six feet two and as strong as a lion. Whether he is 80 or if he is 90, he is young-looking
for his age.

"No'm lady, I'se jes' don' know how old I is. Back in dem days didn't keep up with our ages.
No record of the born. Yes'm I was a pretty good chunk of a boy when de war started."

Doc belonged to Edward Choate, who lived on Barron Forks, near Dutch Mills in the Southwest
corner of Washington County. Barron Forks is made up from Fly Creek and the River Jordan Creek.

About 1849 Edward Choate came from Tennessee to Arkansas, where he had bought Aunt Marie [TR:
'a slave' marked out here] and her three sons, Doc, Abe, and Dave.

"Yes'm, we had a 100 acres or better all along the banks of de river and good valley land where
we raised corn, potatoes, wheat, oats, an' 'bacco. Master Choate had three sons, I recollect,
Jack, Sam, and Win. He had a lot of slaves. Some of dem was good, some was bad. An' old Mister
Choate had a cat-a-nine-tails. He never did have to whup me, some of dem darkies did get whupped.
Dar was one who was always dressing up in wimmins clothes and go walking down by de river.

"My mother was Maria. She worked part time in de kitchen and part time in de field. My mother
had three boys and I 'member one of my sisters was sold as a slave. We darkies had cabins all
along de river bank.

"During de War we all jes' stayed on de place. Mister Choate and Old Missy stayed too. After
peace was made my mother and all of we went up to Prairie Grove to live.

"Yes'm, I voted every chance I got. I voted for Harrison for President. No'm, I don't know
which Harrison. Yes'm, I vote Republican.

"I can't say much for these young darkies these times.

"I ben 'roun' some. I went to Caldwell, Kansas, two times. Farming is my occupation. Now we
jes' live. I get $10 a month from the state. Yes'm, that there Jinney is my wife. Her mother
Celia and she belonged to the Ballards of Cincinnati.

"No'm, I jes' can' tell how old I is. I know I was quite a chunk of a boy when de War started.
Me and Mister Win, one of Mister Choate's boys, was 'bout de same age." (Winston Choate died
in the spring of 1935 at the age of 94 years, according to a niece.)

The Choate place down on Barron Forks is still owned by one of the Choates, a grandson of the
first owner, Edward Choate.

A granddaughter of Mr. Choate lives in Fayetteville and said that there are four or five graves
on the old place where Negro slaves who belonged to her grandfather were buried, and the children
on the place would never go near these graves. They thought they were haunted.

So when one asks Uncle Doc how old he is he will say, "I know I was jes' a chunk of a boy when
de War started so I mus' be 'bout 83 nex' spring."

Aunt Jinney, his wife, sat on the porch and just rocked back and forth while Uncle Doc was
talking. She didn't speak while Doc was speaking.

"Law, honey, I had good white folks. None of dem never struck their colored folks. No'm. Me
an' my mother Celia belonged to Mister Ballard at Cincinnati. Old Missey's name was Miss Liza,
an' she kept my ma in de house wid her to wait on her. Yes'm all de white folks always kept
a little darkey in de house to wait on all of dem. Dem was good times 'fo' de War. Yes'm good
times--plenty to eat. Good times. I was jes' a baby crawling on de flo' when de War come."

The interviewer didn't ask Uncle Doc when and why he went to Caldwell, Kansas the two times.
She knew that Uncle Doc, big and strong, took another Negro's wife away from him and ran off
with her to Kansas and there left her. Later he brought her to Arkansas. Jinney was his wife
and took Uncle Doc back, but Gate-eye didn't take his wife back. Nor did the interviewer tell
Uncle Doc that she had been to see old Gate-eye Fisher and had heard the long ago story of
Uncle Doc taking his wife, and what a worrysome time he had. In an old record marked "Miscellaneous"
in the Washington County Courthouse at Fayetteville, Arkansas, one can find this Emancipation
paper:

"For and in consideration of the love and affection of my wife for my little Negro girl (a
slave) named Celia, about two years old, I do by these presents henceforth and forever give
to said Celia her liberty and freedom, and through fear of some mistake, mishap or accident,
I now hereby firmly bind myself, heirs and representatives forever in accordance with this
indenture of emancipation.

"In testimony whereof witness my hand and seal this 26th day of January 1846.

  Signed: Thomas B. Ballard

  Witnesses: Charles Baylor
             Sumet Mussett"

Jinney, wife of Doc Flowers, is the daughter of the said Celia. "Yes'm," said Jinney, "Miss
Liza, my old Missy, always had my mother right by her side all the time to wait on her. She
were always good to all her colored folks. No'm she'd never let anybody be mean to her colored
folks."

Jinney must have learned the art of house keeping from Miss Liza, for her little three-room
home that she and Doc rent for $4 a month is spotless. Maybe the "path is growed up with weeds,"
but one just can't blame that on Jinney.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Frances Fluker, Edmondson, Arkansas Age:
77 [May 11 1938]

"I was born the 25th day of December 1860 in Marshall County, Mississippi. Our owners was Dr.
George Wilson and Mistress Mary. They had one son I knowed, Dr. Wilson at Coldwater, Mississippi.
My parents was Viney Perry and Dock Bradley.

"I never seen my pa. I heard about him since I been grown. He left when the War was going on
and never went back. Mama had ten children and I am all that's living now. Old mistress set
my name and age down in her Bible. I sent back and my niece just cut it out and sent it to
me so I could get my pension. I pasted it in the front of my Bible. I was never sold. It was
freedom when I first recollect.

"Ma was the cook for the white folks. Grandma Perry come from North Carolina I heard 'em say.
She was a widow woman. When company come they would send us out to play. They never talked
to us children, no ma'am, not 'fore us neither. I come a woman 'fore I knowed what it was.
My sisters knowed better than tell me. They didn't tell me nothin'.

"When it wasn't company at ma's they was at work and singing. At night we was all tired and
went to bed 'cause we had to be up by daybreak--children and all. They said it caused children's
j'ints to be stiff sleeping up in the day. All old folks could tell you that.

"This young set ain't got no strength neither. Ma cooked and washed and raised five children
up grown. The slaves didn't get nary thing give 'em in the way of land nor stock. They got
what clothes they had and some provisions.

"Ma was ginger cake. They said pa was black. I don't know. Grandma was reddish and lighter
still than ma. They said she was part Cherokee Indian. Her hair was smooth and pretty. She
combed her hair with the fine comb to bring the oil out on it and make it slick. I recollect
her combing her hair. It was long about on her shoulders.

"I heard about the Ku Klux but I never seed none of 'em. Ma said her owners was good to her.
Ma never had but one husband.

"I come to Arkansas 1921. Mr. Passler in Coldwater, Mississippi had bought a farm at Onida.
We had worked for him at Lula, Mississippi. Me and my husband come here. My husband died the
first year. I cooked some in my younger days but field work and washing was my work mostly.
I like' field work long as I was able to go.

"My first husband cleared up eighty acres of land. He and myself done it, we had help. We got
in debt and lost it. He bought the place. That was in Pinola County close to Sardis. I had
four children. One daughter living.

"What I think it was give me rheumatism was I picked cotton, broke it off frozen two weeks
on the sleet. I picked two hundred pounds a day. I got numb and fell and they come by and got
a doctor. He said it was from overwork. I got over that but I had rheumatism ever since.

"I learned to read. I went to Shiloah School--and church too--several terms. Mr. Will Dunlap
was my first teacher. He was a white man. He run the school a good while but I don't know how
long. My name is Frances Christiana Fluker. I been farming all my life, nothin' but farmin'.
Never thought 'bout gettin' sick 'cause I knowed I couldn't.

"I jus' get $6 and that is all. It cost more to send get the commodities than it do to buy
them. We don't get much of them. I needs clothes--union suits. 'Course I wears 'em all summer.
If they would give me yarn and needles I could knit my socks. 'Course I can see and ain't doing
nothing else. I needs a dress. I ain't got but this one dress."

NOTE: The two old beds were filthy with slick dirt. They had two chairs and a short bench around
the stove and a trunk in which she kept the little yellow torn to pieces Bible tied around
the back with a string. The large board door was kept wide open for light I suppose. There
were no windows to the room.

I heard the reason she gets only $6 was because her daughter lives there and keeps two of her
son's children and they try to get the young grandson work and help out and support his children
and mother at least.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ida May Fluker
                    Route 6, Box 80, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 83

"I was born in slavery times in Clark County, Alabama. Clover Hill was the county seat.

"Elias Campbell was old master. I know the first time I ever saw any plums, old master brought
'em. I 'member that same as yesterday.

"I 'member the same as if 'twas yesterday when the Yankees come. We chillun would hide behind
the door. Had on blue suits with brass buttons. So you see I'm no baby.

"I 'member my mother and the other folks would go up to the big house and help make molasses.
Didn't 'low us chillun to go but we'd slip up there anyway.

"Old missis' name Miss Annis. She was good to us.

"I didn't do nothin' but play around in the yard and tote wood. Used to tote water from the
Wood Spring. Had a spring called Wood Spring.

"My mother was the cook and my grandma was the spinner. I used to weave after freedom.

"I know the Yankees come in there and got a lot of fodder. They was drivin' a lot of cows.
We chillun would be scared of 'em--mama would be at the big house.

"Mama belonged to the Campbells and papa belonged to Davis Solomon, and I know every Christmas
they let him come to see mama, and he'd bring me and my sister a red dress buttoned in the
back. I 'member it same as if 'twas yesterday 'cause I was crazy 'bout them red dresses.

"I used to hear the folks talkin' 'bout patrollers. Yes ma'am, I heered that song

  'Run nigger run
   Paddyrollers will ketch you
   Jes' 'fore day.'

I know you've heered that song.

"I heered papa talk about how he was sold. He say the overseer so mean he run off in the woods
and eat blackberries for a week.

"I guess we had plenty to eat. I know mama used to fetch us somethin' to eat from the house.
Old missis give it to her. I know I was glad to get it.

"When the people was freed they was so glad they went from house to house and prayed and give
thanks to the Lord.

"Our folks stayed right there and worked on the shares.

"I never went to school but about two weeks. My papa was hard workin'. Other folks would let
their chillun rest but he wouldn't let his chillun rest. He sure did work us hard.

"You know in them days people moved 'round so much they didn't have time to keep up no remembrance
'bout their ages. We didn't have no time to see 'bout no ages--had to work. That's the truth."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Wash Ford, Des Arc, Arkansas Age: 73 or 75?

"I was born close to Des Arc and Hickory Plains, seems like about half way. Mama's master was
named Powell. Papa's master was Frank Ford. My parents was Fannie and Henry Ford. I was the
oldest child. There was 6 boys, 4 girls of us.

"They didn't get anything after freedom. They kept on farming. They started working on shares.
That was all they could do. If they expected anything I never heard it.

"I heard my mother say when I was small Papa was bouncing me up and down. He was lying on the
floor playing like wid me. She looked up the road or 'cross the field one, and said, 'Yonder
come some soldiers. What they coming here for?' Papa put me down and run. He hid. They didn't
find him. It was soldiers from De Valls Bluff I judge. They made the colored men go wait on
them and fight too, if they run up on one. That is what I heard.

"My father voted. He voted a Republican ticket. I do cause he did I reckon. I still vote. If
the colored man could vote in the Primary it wouldn't be no better. They know better who to
put in office, to run the offices right. I think it is right for a woman to vote.

"I been farming all my life. I was a section hand much as six months in all my life. I work
at the veneer mills but they never run no more. I am having a hard time. I have high blood
pressure. I can't pick cotton. I can't even get a mess of turnip greens. The Social Welfare
helps me a little and I am janitor up town in two offices. They hand me a little pocket change.
It amount to maybe $2 a month. I had that job four years. If I could work I would be on the
farm. I could make a living there. I always did. I had plenty on the farm.

"Young folks don't take on no manners. The young folks take care of themselves. It is the old
ones seeing a hard time now."

"One thing I remembers hearin' my folks talk bout. They had a leader hoeing cotton. His name
was John. He was a fast hand. He hoe one row a piece and reach over and hoe the other. He'd
get way ahead of the other hands. If they didn't keep up they get a whoopin. So he rest till
they ketch up. Once he hoed up to a tree--big shade tree out in the field. He stuck his hoe
in the root of the tree and a moccasin bit him bout that time. It bit him right on the toe.
They took him up to the house but he died.

"I was born close to Des Arc and Hickory Plains. My parents was Henry and Fannie Ford. Her
master was named Powell and his master was named Frank Ford. I was the oldest 'mong six boys
and four girls. My folks didn't git nuthing. I don't think they expected freedom much. They
heard they goiner be free and knowed they was fightin'. They didn't know what freedom be like.
When they was set free at DeValls Bluff they signed up. They went back and went on farmin'
lack nothin' ever happened. That what I heard em say when I was small boy.

"I voted--Republican ticket, I believe. If I vote that what I vote. I reckon the women ought
to vote. I still vote that is if I sees fit to vote.

"My father run from the soldiers. He didn't go to the war as I ever knowd of.

"I been farmin' all my life till I got so nocount I ain't able to do nothin' no more. I worked
on the section bout six months. I worked some off an on at the veneer mill till it shut down.
I does a little janitor work now and the Welfare help me a little.

"The present conditions good if a fellow able to pick cotton but if they run through with it
times be hard in the heart of the winter cause they cain't git no credit. Times is hard for
old folks."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Judia Fortenberry
                    712 Arch Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 75
Occupation: Field hand
[May 21 1938]

[HW: Slaves Allowed to Visit]

"I was born three miles west of Hamburg in Ashley County, Arkansas, in the year 1859, in the
month of October. I don't know just what day of the month it was.

"My mother was named Indiana Simms and my father was named Burrell Simms. My father's mother
was named Ony Simms, and my mother's mother was named Maria Young. I don't know what the names
of their parents was.

"My mother's master was named Robert Tucker. My father's master was named Hartwell Simms. Their
plantations were pretty close together, but I don't know how my father and my mother got together.
I guess they just happened to meet up with each other. The slaves from the two plantations
were allowed to visit one another. After their marriage, the two continued to belong to different
masters. Every Sunday, they would visit one another. My father used to come to visit his wife
every Sunday and through the week at night.

"My mother had ten children.

Houses

"I was born in a log house with one room. It was built with a stick and dirt chimney. It had
plank floors. They didn't have nothin' much in the way of furniture--homemade beds, stools,
tables. We had common pans and tin plates and tin cans to use for dishes. The cabin had one
window and one door.

Patrollers

"I have heard my mother and father tell many a story of the pateroles. But I can't remember
them. My father said they used to go into the slave cabins and take folks out and whip them.
They'd go at night and get 'em out and whip 'em.

How Freedom Came

"I was so little that I don't know much about how freedom came. I just know he took us all
and went somewheres and made him a crop. Went to another man. Didn't stay on the place where
he was a slave. He never got anything when he was freed. I never heard of any of the slaves
getting anything.

Schooling

"I went to free school after the War. I just went along during the vacation when they weren't
doing any farming. That is all the education I got. I can't tell how many seasons I went--four
or five, I reckon. I never did go any whole season. I never had much chance to go to school.
People didn't send their children to school much in those days. I went to school in Monticello,
but most of my schooling was in country schools.

Occupation

"When I first went to work, I picked cotton. That is at a place out near Hamburg. I picked
cotton about ten or fifteen years. Then I went to town--Monticello. I washed and ironed. About
forty-five years ago, I came to Little Rock, and have been here every since. Washing and ironing
has been my support. I have sometimes cooked.

Opinions

"I don't know what I think about the young people. Seems to me they coming to nothing. Lot
of them do wrong just because they got a chance to do it. I'm a christian. I belong to the
A.M.E.'s. You know how they do.

  Song

  1

  I belong to the band
  That good old Christian band
  Thank God I belong to the band.

  Chorus

  Steal away home to Jesus
  I ain't got long to stay here.

  2

  There'll I'll meet my mother,
  My good old christian mother,
  Mother, how do you do;
  Thank God I belong to the band.

I can't remember the music. But that's on old song we used to sing 'way back yonder. I can't
remember any more of the verses. You got enough anyhow."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Emma Foster
                    1200 N. Magnolia, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80

"Yes'm, I was born in time of slavery--seven years before surrender. No'm, I wasn't born in
Arkansas. Born in Claiborne Parish, Louisiana.

"I remember hearin' the big guns shoot. I was small and I didn't know what it was only by what
they told me.

"My parents belonged to the Harts. My mother run off and left me, a year-old baby.

"I remember better when I was young than I do now.

"After I got big enough--you know, a little old nasty somethin' runnin' around in the yard--after
I got big enough, they took me in the house to rock the cradle, and I stayed there till I was
twenty-three. I would a stayed longer but they was so cruel to me.

"I didn't know nothin'. I run off and stayed with a colored preacher and his family not far
away. You know I was crazy. One day the preacher said some of his members was objectin' to
me stayin' there and he was goin' to tell my white folks where I was. And sure enough, he did,
and one morning I was out in the field and I saw the son-in-law comin'. So I went back and
worked for him and his wife.

"Me? All I did do was farmin' when I was young.

"Oh, I been in Arkansas 'bout fifty years. My oldest boy was fourteen when I come here and
he is sixty-four now.

"No, honey, I can't cook now. I'd burn it up. I used to cook. It's a poor dog that won't wag
its own tail.

"All I know is I had a hard time, I been married three times. My last husband was a preacher
and he was so mean I left him. I told him if all preachers was like him, hell was full of 'em.

"I went to Chicago and lived with my son a while but I didn't like it, so I come back here
and I been here right in the yard with Mrs. O'Neal eight years washin' and ironin'--anything
come to hand.

"Now if there's goin' to be a death in my family, I can see that 'fore it happens. I was out
in the potato patch one day and it started to rain and I come in and somethin' just bore down
on me and I started to cry. I didn't know why. I thought, 'Oh, Lord, is somethin' goin' to
happen to my son?' But instead it was my grandson. He got killed that evenin'."

Name of interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden Subject: Birthmarks Story:--Information

This information given by: Emma Foster (C) Place of residence: 1200 N. Magnolia Street, Pine
Bluff, Arkansas Occupation: Laundress Age: 80 [TR: Personal information moved from bottom of
first page.]

"I know I marked one of my babies with beer. It was 'cause I wanted some beer and couldn't
get it. And when it was born it had a place on the back of its neck looked like beer and she
just foamed at the mouth. And when she was about a week old I got some beer and give it to
her with a teaspoon and she quit foamin'.

"And another time there was a boy on the place had a finger that the doctor had done took the
bone out. He and I used to love to rassle (wrestle) and one day he said, 'Oh, Emma, you hurt
my finger.' And like a fool, you know I took his hand and just rubbed that finger. And do you
know, when my baby was born it had six fingers on each hand."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ira Foster
                    2000 W. Eureka Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born in slavery because when the people come back from the War I was a pretty good sized
yellin' boy when freedom come.

"I heerd 'em tellin' 'bout my young master comin' back from the War.

"Yes ma'am, I was sure born in Arkansas; I won't tell no lie 'bout that.

"My mother's old master was named Foster and after she married she belonged to Hezekiah Bursey.

"She was born in Alabama and she said she was pretty badly treated.

"She was the cook and then she was the weaver and the spinner.

"I never have been to school. Never did learn nothin'. My father put me to work soon as I was
big enough.

"I always done farm work all my life till 'bout twenty years ago as near as I can come at it.
I went to saw millin' and I didn't do nothin' but manufacture lumber. I worked for the Camden
Lumber Company eighteen years and never caused 'em a minute's trouble.

"If I just had enough to live on I wouldn't do a thing but just sit around 'cause I think I
done worked my share. Why, some of the white folks say, 'Foster, you ought to have a pension
of thirty or forty dollars a month.' And I say, 'Why?' And they say, 'Cause you look just like
a darky that has worked hard in this world.'

"I suffers with the rheumatism in my right leg clear up and down. Seems like sometimes I can't
hardly get around."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden Subject: Songs of Pre-War Days Story:--Information

This information given by: Ira Foster Place of residence: 2000 W. Eureka, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Occupation: None Age: 76 [TR: Personal information moved from bottom of first page.]

  "'You may call me Raggedy Pat
   'Cause I wear this raggedy hat,
   And you may think I'm a workin'
   But I ain't.'

I used to hear my uncle sing that. That's all the words I can remember."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Leonard Franklin
         Temporary: 301 Ridgeway, Little Rock, Arkansas
         Permanent: Warren, Arkansas
Age: 70

[HW: Mother Whipped Overseer]

"I don't know exactly the year I was born. But my father told me I was born since the Civil
War. I am seventy years old. They always tell me when my birthday come 'round it will be in
January--the eighteenth of January.

"My father's name was Abe Franklin and my mother's name was Lucy Franklin. I know my father's
mother but I didn't ever know his father. His mother's name was Maria Franklin. My mother's
father was Harris Pennington. I never did see her mother and never did see her.

"I was born in Warren, Arkansas. My mother and father were born in Warren. That is on the outer
edge of Warren. My mother's slavery farm was on what they called Big Creek. It is named Franklin
Creek. Two or three miles of it ran through Franklin's Farm.

"My father's master was Al Franklin. And my mother's master's name was Hill Pennington. One
of Hill Pennington's sons was named Fountain Pennington. He lives about five miles from Warren
now on the south highway.

"My mother had about three masters before she got free. She was a terrible working woman. Her
boss went off deer hunting once for a few weeks. While he was gone, the overseer tried to whip
her. She knocked him down and tore his face up so that the doctor had to 'tend to him. When
Pennington came back, he noticed his face all patched up and asked him what was the matter
with it. The overseer told him that he went down in the field to whip the hands and that he
just thought he would hit Lucy a few licks to show the slaves that he was impartial, but she
jumped on me and like to tore me up. Old Pennington said to him, 'Well, if that is the best
you could do with her, damned if you won't just have to take it.'

"Then they sold her to another man named Jim Bernard. Bernard did a lot of big talk to her
one morning. He said, 'Look out there and mind you do what you told around her and step lively.
If you don't, you'll get that bull whip.' She said to him, 'Yes, and we'll both be gittin'
it.' He had heard about her; so he sold her to another man named Cleary. He was good to her;
so she wasn't sold no more after that.

"There wasn't many men could class up with her when it come to working. She could do more work
than any two men. There wasn't no use for no one man to try to do nothin' with her. No overseer
never downed her.

"They didn't kill niggers then--not in slavery times. Not 'round where my folks were. A nigger
was money. Slaves were property. They'd paid money to git 'im and money to keep 'im and they
couldn't 'ford to kill 'em up. When they couldn't manage them they sold them and got their
money out of them.

"The white people started to Texas with the colored folks near the end of the war and got as
far as El Dorado. Word come to 'em that freedom had come and they turned back.

"A paterole come in one night before freedom and asked for a drink of water. He said he was
thirsty. He had a rubber thing on and drank two or three buckets of water. His rubber bag swelled
up and made his head or the thing that looked like his head under the hood grow taller. Instead
of gettin' 'fraid, mother threw a shovelful of hot ashes on him and I'll tell you he lit out
from there and never did come back no more.

"Right after the war my folks went to work on the farm. They hired out by the month. [HW: My
father] didn't never say how much he got. When they had a settlement at the end of the year,
the boss said his wages didn't amount to nothing because his living took it up. Said he had
ate it all up. After that, he took my mother's advice and took up part of his wages in a cow
and so on, and then he'd always have something to show for his work at the end of the year
when it come settling up time. It was ten years before he got a start. It was hard to get ahead
then because the niggers had just got free and didn't have nothin' and didn't know nothin'.
My father had two brothers that just stayed on with the white folks. They stayed on till they
got too old to work, then they had to go. Couldn't do no good then. My father was always treated
well by his master.

"I got my schooling at Warren. I went to the tenth grade. Could have gone farther but didn't
want to. I was looking at something I thought was better than education. When I got of age,
I come up here and just run about. I was what you might say pretty fine. I was looking so high
I couldn't find nothing to suit me. I went 'round to a number of places and none of them suited
me. So I went on back home and been there ever since.

"I married once in my life. My wife is still living. My wife is a good woman. No, if I got
rid of this one, wouldn't do to take another one. I am the father of ten living children. I
made a living by doing anything that come up--housework, gardening, anything.

"I don't get no government help. I don't want none yet. God has seen me this far. I think He'll
see me to the end. He is good to me; He's given me such a good time I couldn't help but serve
Him. Only been sick once in seventy years.

"I belong to the Baptist church. God is my boss now. He has brought me this far and He's able
to carry me across"

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Eliza Frazier
                    2003 Saracen Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 88?

"I don't know when I was born or 'zackly how old I is, but I was born in South Carolina and
come here before the War.

"I belonged to Wiley Mosley and he brought me and my mother and my sister here to Arkansas.
I don't 'member it at all 'cause I was a baby, but I know what Wiley Mosley and my mother told me.

"Settled in Redland Township. That's what they called it. He bought a plantation there. There
was three brothers come to this country and they didn't live very far from each other.

"I 'member hearin' 'em talk 'bout the War and one time I heered the guns a poppin'. They said
they was just passin' through. I was just a small girl but I 'member it. I seed the Yankees
too. I 'member they'd come up in the yard on hosses and jump down and go in the smokehouse
and take the meat and go to the dairy house and get the milk.

"Old master was gone to the War. I 'member when he was gwine and I 'member when he come back.
Old missis said he was up in Missouri. Got shot right through the foot once. I know he come
home and stayed 'til he was well, then he went back. I don't know how long he stayed but he
went back--I know that. And he come back after the War--I 'member that.

"I 'member one time when I upset the cradle. Miss Jane wouldn't 'low me to take the baby up
but I rocked the cradle. And one time I reckon I rocked it too hard and it turned over. Miss
Jane heard it time it hit the floor and she come runnin'. I was under the house by that time
but she called me out and whipped me and told me to get back in the house. I know I didn't
turn it over no more.

"The Yankees never said nothin' to me--talked to my mother though, and old mis'.

"They said they was fightin' to free the niggers. There was a boy on the place and while old
master was gone to war, he'd just go and come and get the news. He didn't do that when old
master was home. I know he brought the news when peace declared. Patrollers got him one night.

"I 'member when peace declared ever'body went around shoutin' and hollerin', 'The niggers is
free, the niggers is free!'

"Our folks stayed there on the place right smart while after freedom. I 'member I was gwine
out to the field and Woodson, he was the baby I upset, he wanted to go along and wanted me
to tote him and I know old master said, 'Put him down and let him walk.'

"They told me I was twenty when I was married--the white folks told me. I know my mother asked
how old I was and they said I was 'bout twenty. I 'member it well enough.

"I never went to school but I knowed my ABC's and could read some in the first reader. I ain't
forgot about it. I thinks about it sometimes.

"The biggest work I has done is farm work.

"I've had nine chillun and raised all of 'em but one."

NOTE:

Eliza lives with her son who is well educated and a retired city mail carrier and he is now
sending three children to the A.M.& N. College here.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mary Frazier, near Biscoe, Arkansas Age: 60

"My parents was Neily and Amos Hamilton. They lived in Marshall County, about forty-eight miles
from Memphis. They belong to people by that same name.

"I heard them all say how they come to be way out in Mississippi. The Thompsons owned Grandma
Diana and her husband in South Carolina. Master Jefferies went there from Mississippi and bought
grandma. They let all twelve of her children go in the sale some way but they didn't sell grandpa.
He grieved so till the same man come back a long time afterward and bought him. Jefferies was
good to them. I was born in Mississippi. Grandma cooked all the time. Mama and papa both worked
in the field. I heard grandma say every one of her children was born in South Carolina. Mr.
Jefferies, one of the younger set, lived in Clarendon, Arkansas. Since I come to this country
I seen him. I lived over there pretty close by.

"I got no 'pinion worth telling about our young folks. They want to have a big time when they
are young. All young folks is swift on foot that way. Times is funny. Funniest times ever been
in my life. Is times right now? Ain't no credit no more. That one thing making times so hard.
Money is the whole thing now'days." Ah got freed in Texas. We went tuh Texas on a steamboat
an dey wuz a lot uv people on de steamboat. We sho 'joyed dat trip. We went wid our mistress
an moster. Dey wuz de Lides, Mistuh John Lide's parents. De Lides run one uv de bigges' stores
in Camden now, if yo knows dem dey is de same Lides. One uv de boys wuz named Blackie Lide,
one John Lide, one named Hugh Lide. Dem wuz granchillun. Hannah Lide, Minnie Watts now, dey
wuz de granchillun. Now let me see, one Miss wuz named Emma Lide. Dem sho wuz good fokes. Ole
miss died when we wuz on ouh way tuh dis country. An ole moster been daid since way back yondah.
But when we got tuh dis country we settled bout seven or eight miles fum Camden in Ouachita
County. Ole moster wuz named Peter Lide. We jes went tuh school nough tuh learn our A.B.C.'s
cause we had tuh work in de fiel. We carried our meat tuh de fiel an cooked hot ash cake fuh
dinnuh. We kep' spare ribs and backbone all de year roun'. We pickled de backbone an dem spareribs.
We worked evah day. Wednesday night wuz wash night. Dat's when de women would do de washin.
We'd go tuh de fiel way fo day.

Back in dem days we had er log church. Ah went in mah shirt-tail till ah wuz six. Mis Lide
made mah fust pair uv britches. Ah membuhs one time ah went to Miss Lide's garden an stole
watuh mellons. Ah put em in a sack an when ah want tuh come outn de garden ah got ovah de fence
an got hung an moster caught me. Ah'm tellin de truth. Ah aint had no desire tuh steal since.

Moster Peter Lide's favorite song wus dis: "Hit's er long way tuh heaven." Ah kin mos heah
him singin hit now. He wuz a Christian man. He wuz white and owned slaves but he wuz a good
Christian. We didn' know bout no money. When we got sick dat's when we got biscuit. We didn'
know bout Thanksgiving day and Christmas. We heard de white fokes tawkin bout hit but we didn'
know whut hit meant.

When anybody would die dey made de coffin. Didn' have no funeral, no singin, no nothin' jes
put dem in de groun. Dat wus all. Nebber stop work. We nevah plowed er hoss. We used oxen teams.
We made good crops den. We raised all our sumpin tuh eat.

When ah wus a lil' bitsy boy Mrs. Lide use tuh tell us stories at night. She give us our fireside
trainin. She tole us when anybody wuz a tawkin not tuh but in. Ah'm seventy five yers ole now
an ah aint nevah fuhgot dat. We ole fokes aint got long tuh stay heah now. We lives in de days
dats past. All we knows tuh tawk bout is what we use tuh do. When mah time is up ah is ready
tuh go cause ah is done mah bes' fuh mah God, mah country and mah race.

Interviewer: Beulah Sherwood Hagg Person interviewed: Aunt Mittie Freeman Aged: 86 Home: 320
Elm St., North Little Rock. In home of granddaughter. [Aug 27 1937]

Story by Aunt Mittie Freeman

"Howdy, honey. Come on in and set down. It's awful hot, ain't it? What you come to see me for?
You says old uncle Boss tell you I'se old slave lady? That's right, that's right. Us old war
folks never fergits the others. Anything you wants to know, honey, jest go on and ax me. I
got the bestest remembrance.

Orange county, Mississippi was where I was borned at but I been right here in Arkansas before
sech thing as war gonna be. In slavery, it was, when my white folks done come to Camden. You
know where that is?--Camden on the Ouachita? That's the place where we come. Yes Ma'am, it
was long before the war when the doctor--I means Dr. Williams what owned my pappy and all us
younguns--say he going to Arkansas. Theys rode in the fine carriages. Us slaves rode in ox
wagons. Lord only knows how long it tuck a-coming. Every night we camped. I was jest a little
tike then but I has a remembrance of everything. The biggest younguns had to walk till theys
so tired theys couldn't hardly drag they feets; them what had been a-riding had to get out
the ox wagon and walk a far piece; so it like this we go on.

Dr. Williams always wanted to keep his slaves together. He was sure good man. He didn't work
his slaves hard like some. My pappy was a kind of a manager for Doctor. Doctor tended his business
and pappy runned the plantation where we lived at. Our good master died before freedom. He
willed us slaves to his chilrun. You know--passeled (parcelled) us out, some to this child,
some to that. I went to his daughter, Miss Emma. Laws-a-Mercy, how I wishes I could see her
face onct more afore I dies. I heerd she married rich. Unh-unh! I'd shore love to see her onct
more.

After old master died, poor old pappy got sent to another plantation of the fam'ly. It had
a overseer. He was a northerner man and the meanest devil ever put foot on a plantation. My
father was a gentleman; yes ma'am, he was jest that. He had been brung up that-a-way. Old master
teached us to never answer back to no white folks. But one day that overseer had my pappy whipped
for sompin he never done, and pappy hit him.

So after that, he sent pappy down to New Orleans to be sold. He said he would liked to kill
pappy, but he didn't dare 'cause he didn't owned him. Pappy was old. Every auction sale, all
the young niggers be sold; everybody pass old pappy by. After a long time--oh, maybe five years--one
day they ax pappy--"Are you got some white folks back in Arkansas?" He telled them the Williams
white folks in Camden on the Ouachita. Theys white. After while theys send pappy home. Miss,
I tells you, nobody never seen sech a home coming. Old Miss and the young white folks gathered
round and hugged my old black pappy when he come home; they cry on his shoulder, so glad to
git him back. That's what them Williams folks thought of their slaves. Yes ma'am.

Old Miss was name Miss 'liza. She skeered to stay by herself after old master died. I was took
to be her companion. Every day she wanted me to bresh her long hair and bathe her feet in cool
water; she said I was gentle and didn't never hurt her. One day I was a standing by the window
and I seen smoke--blue smoke a rising over beyond a woods. I heerd cannons a-booming and axed
her what was it. She say: "Run, Mittie, and hide yourself. It's the Yanks. Theys coming at
last, Oh lordy!" I was all incited (excited) and told her I didn't want to hide, I wanted to
see 'em. "No" she say, right firm. "Ain't I always told you Yankees has horns on their heads?
They'll get you. Go on now, do like I tells you." So I runs out the room and went down by the
big gate. A high wall was there and a tree put its branches right over the top. I clim up and
hid under the leaves. They was coming, all a marching. The captain opened our big gate and
marched them in. A soldier seen me and said "Come on down here; I want to see you." I told
him I would, if he would take off his hat and show me his horns.

The day freedom came, I was fishing with pappy. My remembrance is sure good. All a-suddent
cannons commence a-booming, it seem like everywhere. You know what that was, Miss? It was the
fall of Richmond. Cannons was to roar every place when Richmond fell. Pappy jumps up, throws
his pole and everything, and grabs my hand, and starts flying towards the house. "It's victory,"
he keep on saying. "It's freedom. Now we'es gwine be free." I didn't know what it all meant.

It seem like it tuck a long time fer freedom to come. Everything jest kept on like it was.
We heard that lots of slaves was getting land and some mules to set up fer theirselves; I never
knowed any what got land or mules nor nothing.

We all stayed right on the place till the Yankees came through. They was looking for slaves
what was staying on. Now we was free and had to git off the plantation. They packed us in their
big amulance ... you say it wasn't a amulance,--what was it? Well, then, their big covered
army wagons, and tuck us to Little Rock. Did you ever know where the old penitentiary was?
Well, right there is where the Yanks had a great big barracks. All chilluns and growd womens
was put there in tents. Did you know that the fust real free school in Little Rock was opened
by the govment for colored chullens? Yes ma'am, and I went to it, right from the day we got there.

They took pappy and put him to work in the big commissary; it was on the corner of Second and
Main Street. He got $12.00 a month and all the grub we could eat. Unh, Unh! Didn't we live
good? I sure got a good remembrance, honey. Can't you tell? Yes, Ma'am. They was plenty of
other refugees living in them barracks, and the govment taking keer of all of 'em.

I was a purty big sized girl by then and had to go to work to help pappy. A man name Captain
Hodge, a northerner, got a plantation down the river. He wanted to raise cotton but didn't
know how and had to get colored folks to help him. A lot of us niggers from the barracks was
sent to pick. We got $1.25 a hundred pounds. What did I do with my money? Is you asking me
that? Bless your soul, honey, I never seen that money hardly long enough to git it home. In
them days chilluns worked for their folks. I toted mine home to pappy and he got us what we
had to have. That's the way it was. We picked cotton all fall and winter, and went to school
after picking was over.

When I got nearly growd, we moved on this very ground you is a setting on. Pappy had a five
year lease,--do you know what that was, I don't--but anyhow, they told him he could have all
the ground he could clear and work for five years and it wouldn't cost him nothing. He built
a log house and put in a orchard. Next year he had a big garden and sold vegables. Lord, miss,
them white ladies wouldn't buy from nobody but pappy. They'd wait till he got there with his
fresh beans and roasting ears. When he got more land broke out, he raised cotton and corn and
made it right good. His name was Harry Williams. He was a stern man, and honest. He was named
for his old master. When my brothers got growed they learned shoemakers trade and had right
good business in Little Rock. But when pappy died, them boys give up that good business and
tuck a farm--the old Lawson place--so to make a home for mammy and the little chilluns.

I married Freeman. Onliest husban ever I had. He died last summer. He was a slave too. We used
to talk over them days before we met. The K.K.K. never bothered us. They was gathered together
to bother niggers and whites what made trouble. If you tended to your own business, they's
let you alone.

No ma'am, I never voted. My husband did. Yes ma'am, I can remember when they was colored men
voted into office. Justice of Peace, county clerks, and, er--er--that fellow that comes running
fast when somebody gets killed. What you call him? Coroner? Sure, that's him. I know that,
'cause I seen them a-setting in their offices.

We raised our fam'ly on a plantation. That's the bestest place for colored chilluns. Yes ma'am.
My five boys stayed with me till they was grown. They heerd about the Railroad shops and was
bound theys going there to work. Ben--that was my man--and me couldn't make it by ourselfs,
so we come on back to this little place where we come soon after the war. He was taken with
a tumor on his brains last summer and died in two weeks. He didn't know nothing all that time.
My onliest boy what stayed here died jest two weeks after his pa. All them others went to Iowa
after the big railroad strike here. They was out of work for many years; they didn't like no
kind of work but railroad, after they been in the shops.

How I a-living now? You wants to know, honest? Say honey, is you a relief worker--one of them
welfare folkses? Lor' God, how I needs help! Honey, last summer when my husband and son die
they wasn't nothin' to put on 'em to bury in. I told the Welfare could I get something clean
and whole to bury my dead; honey chile, it's the gospel truth, it was two weeks after they
was buried when they brought me the close (clothes). Theys told me then I would get $10.00
a month, but in all this time now, I only had $5.00 one time. I lives with my daughter here
in this house, but her man been outen work so long he couldn't keep up the payments and theys
'bout to loose it. Lordy, where'll we go? I made big garden in the spring of the year, and
sold a heap. Hot summer burnt everything up, now. Yessum, that $5.00 the Reliefers give me--I
bought my garden stuff with it.

I got the rheumatiz a-making the garden. It look like I'm done. I knowed a old potion. It made
of pokeberry juice and whiskey. Good whiskey. Not old cheap corn likker. Yessum, you takes
fine whiskey--'bout half bottle, and fills up with strained pokeberry juice. Tablespoon three
times a day. Look-a-here, miss. Look at these old arms go up and down now. I kin do a washing
along with the youngish womens.

Iffen you wants to know what I thinks of the young folks I tells you. Look at that grandchile
a-setting there. She fourteen and know more right now than I knowed in my whole life. Yes ma'am!
She can sew on a machine and make a dress in one day. She read in a book how to make sumthin
to eat and go hatch it up. Theys fast, too. Ain't got no time for olds like me. Can't find
no time to do nothin' for me. People now makes more money than in old days, but the way they
makes it ain't honest. No'am, honey, it jest plain ain't. Old honest way was to bend the back
and bear down on the hoe.

Did you ask somethin' 'bout old time songs? Sure did have purty music them days. It's so long,
honey, I jest can't 'member the names, 'excusing one. It was "Hark, from the Tombs a Doleful
Sound." It was a burying song; wagons a-walking slow like; all that stuff. It was the most
onliest song they knowed. They was other music, though. Could they play the fiddle in them
days, unh, unh! Lordy, iffen I could take you back and show you that handsome white lady what
put me on the floor and learned me to dance the contillion!

I'm a-thinking we're a-living in the last days, honey, what does you think? Yes, Mam! We sure
is living in the seventh seal. The days of tribulations is on us right now. Nothing make like
it used to. I sure would be proud iffen I knowed I had a living for the balance of my days.
I got a clean and a clear heart--a clean and clear heart. Be so to your neighbors and God will
make it up to you. He sure will, honey."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mattie Fritz, Clarendon, Arkansas Age: 79

"I was born at Duncan, Arkansas. Mother died when I was a baby. Old slavery black 'Mammy' raised
me. I called her 'Mammy'. My father was born in the State of Mississippi. He got loose there
at 'mancipation. His master Jack Oates got killed in battle. They brung him home and buried
him in the garden. Down close to Duncan on the place. I played in the yard wid Mr. Jack Oates,
Jr. when we was little fellars. Father's master in Tennessee was Bill Tyler. My uncle went
back to Tennessee to them. His name was Tyler Oates. Mr. Jack Gates, Sr. used to pat me and
call me his little nigger. We thought the world and all of our white folks. We sure did. Some
of 'em 'round 'bout Helena they say now. Mr. Jack, Jr., he had two boys and he was a widower.

"My own dear mother was Jane. My father called hisself Bill Tyler. My stepmother was Liddy.
The woman what raised me was 'Mammy' all I ever knowed. But her name was Luckadoo.

"Mr. Tyler got killed. Pa had to stay on take care of his mistress. He got sold. Then she died.
Then mother died. Jack Oates went to my father and brung him to Mississippi, then to Arkansas.

"Master Jack Tyler hid out. The Yankees come at night and caught him there and shot him. His
wife lived about two more years. She grieved about him. They took everything and searched the
house. My pa was hid under the house. They rumbled down in the cellar and pretty nigh seen
him once. He was a little bit er black fellar scroughed back in the dark. All what saved him
he wore a black sorter coat. They couldn't see him so good. Way he said they would took him
to wait on them and be in the fights too. Them Yankees took Massa Jack Tyler off and sont him
back in a while. She had him buried in the garden. She didn't know it was him.

"'Mammy' was a slavery woman. She was sold first time from a neighbor man to a neighbor man.
He was an old man. She ploughed and rolled logs. Then she was sold to Master Luckadoo close
to Holly Grove. They named her Eloise, and she was a farm woman. She was so good to me. She
was a worker and never took time to tell me about old times. She said Luckadoo never whooped
her. A storm come and blowed a limb down killed her granddaughter and broke my leg. The same
storm killed their mule. She raised a orphan boy too. She died from the change of life but
she was old, gray headed. Since I'm older I think she had a tumor. 'Cause she was old when
she took me on.

"I gets ten dollars from the Welfare. I ain't goiner say nothin' for 'em nor nothin' agin 'em.
They's betwix' and between no 'count and good.

"Times too fast. I can't keep up wid them. 'Betwix' and between the fat and the lean.' Some
do very well I reckon."