    White of 1 egg,
    2 tablespoonfuls of cold water,
    Sifted confectioner's sugar,
    1/2 teaspoonful of essence of peppermint or a few drops of oil of
        peppermint,
    1 or 2 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    Green color paste,
    Pink color paste.

Beat the egg on a plate, add the cold water and gradually work in sugar enough to make a firm
paste. Divide the sugar paste into three parts. To one part add the peppermint and a very little
of the green color paste. Take the paste from the jar with a wooden tooth pick, add but a little.
Work and knead the mixture until the paste is evenly distributed throughout. Roll the candy
into a sheet one-fourth an inch thick, then cut out into small rounds or other shape with any
utensil that is convenient. Color the second part a very delicate pink, flavor with rose extract
and cut out in the same manner as the first. To the last part add one or two squares of Baker's
Chocolate, melted over hot water, and flavor with peppermint. Add also a little water, as the
chocolate will make the mixture thick and crumbly. Begin by adding a tablespoonful of water,
then add more if necessary, knead and cut these as the others.

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL WALNUTS (Uncooked Fondant)

    White of 1 egg,
    3 tablespoonfuls of maple or caramel syrup,
    1 tablespoonful of water,
    Sifted confectioner's sugar,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract,
    2 or more squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    English walnuts.

Beat the white of egg slightly, add the syrup, water, sugar as needed, the chocolate, melted
over hot water, and the vanilla, also more water if necessary. Work with a silver plated knife
and knead until thoroughly mixed, then break off small pieces of uniform size and roll them
into balls, in the hollow of the hand, flatten the balls a little, set the half of an English
walnut upon each, pressing the nut into the candy and thus flattening it still more. The caramel
gives the chocolate a particularly nice flavor.

HOW TO COAT CANDIES, &c., WITH BAKER'S "DOT" CHOCOLATE

Half a pound of "Dot" Chocolate will coat quite a number of candy or other "centers," but as
depth of chocolate and an even temperature during the whole time one is at work are essential,
it is well, when convenient, to melt a larger quantity of chocolate. When cold, the unused
chocolate may be cut from the dish and set aside for use at a future time. If the chocolate
be at the proper temperature when the centers are dipped in it, it will give a rich, glossy
coating free from spots, and the candies will not have a spreading base. After a few centers
have been dipped set them in a cool place to harden. The necessary utensils are a wire fork
and a very small double boiler. The inner dish of the boiler should be of such size that the
melted chocolate will come nearly to the top of it. Break the chocolate in small pieces and
surround with warm water, stir occasionally while melting. When the melted chocolate has cooled
to about 80° F. it is ready to use. Drop whatever is to be coated into the chocolate, with
the fork push it below the chocolate, lift out, draw across the edge of the dish and drop onto
a piece of table oil cloth or onto waxed paper. Do not let a drop of water get into the chocolate.

CHOCOLATE DIPPED PEPPERMINTS (Uncooked Fondant)

Prepare green, white, pink and chocolate colored mints by the first recipe. After they have
dried off a little run a spatula under each and turn to dry the other side. Coat with Baker's
"Dot" Chocolate. Chocolate.

Use the first four ingredients in making uncooked fondant. (Caramel syrup is a great addition
to this fondant, especially if nuts are to be used. Use three tablespoonfuls of syrup and one
tablespoonful of water with one egg white instead of the two tablespoonfuls of water indicated
in the recipe). Work the fondant for some time, then break off little bits and wrap around
small pieces of the fruit, then roll in the hollow of the hand into balls or oblongs. For other
candies, roll a piece of the fondant into a ball, flatten it with the fingers and use to cover
a whole pecan or English walnut meat. Set each shape on a plate as it is finished. They will
harden very quickly. Dip these, one by one, in Baker's "Dot" Chocolate and set on an oil cloth.

CHOCOLATE PEANUT CLUSTERS

Shell a quart of freshly-roasted peanuts and remove the skins. Drop the peanuts, one by one,
into the center of a dish of "Dot" Chocolate made ready for use; lift out onto oil cloth with
a dipping fork (a wire fork comes for the purpose, but a silver oyster fork answers nicely)
to make groups of three nuts,--two below, side by side, and one above and between the others.

CHOCOLATE COATED ALMONDS

Select nuts that are plump at the ends. Use them without blanching. Brush, to remove dust.
Melt "Dot" Chocolate and when cooled properly drop the nuts, one at a time, into the center
of it; push the nuts under with the fork, then drop onto waxed paper or oil cloth. In removing
the fork make a design on the top of each nut. These are easily prepared and are particularly good.

PLAIN AND CHOCOLATE DIPPED PARISIAN SWEETS

    1/2 a cup of Sultana raisins,
    5 figs,
    1 cup of dates,
    2 ounces citron,
    2/3 a cup of nut meats, (almonds, filberts, pecans or walnuts, one
        variety or a mixture),
    1-1/2 ounces of Baker's Chocolate,
    1/3 a cup of confectioner's sugar,
    1/4 a teaspoonful of salt,
    Chocolate Fondant or
    Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

Pour boiling water over the figs and dates, let boil up once, then drain as dry as possible;
remove stones from the dates, the stem ends from the figs; chop the fruit and nut meats (almonds
should be blanched) in a food chopper; add the salt; and the sugar and work the whole to a
smooth paste; add the chocolate, melted, and work it evenly through the mass. Add more sugar
if it is needed and roll the mixture into a sheet one-fourth an inch thick. Cut into strips
an inch wide. Cut the strips into diamond-shaped pieces (or squares); roll these in confectioner's
sugar or dip them in chocolate fondant or in Baker's "Dot" Chocolate, and sprinkle a little
fine-chopped pistachio nut meats on the top of the dipped pieces. When rolling the mixture
use confectioner's sugar on board and rolling pin.

STUFFED DATES, CHOCOLATE DIPPED

Cut choice dates open on one side and remove the seeds. Fill the open space in the dates with
a strip of preserved ginger or pineapple, chopped nuts or chopped nuts mixed with white or
chocolate fondant; press the dates into a compact form to keep in the filling, then dip them,
one by one, in "Dot" Chocolate.

CHOCOLATE OYSTERETTES, PLAIN AND WITH CHOPPED FIGS

    Oyster crackers, salted preferred, fine-chopped, roasted peanuts or
        raisins or 3 or 4 basket figs or a little French fruit cut in
        very small bits,
    1/2 a pound or more of Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

Select fresh-baked crackers free from crumbs. Dip in "Dot" Chocolate, made ready as in previous
recipes, and dispose on oil cloth or waxed paper. For a change add figs or other fruit, cut
very fine, or chopped nuts to the chocolate ready for dipping.

TURKISH PASTE WITH FRENCH FRUIT, CHOCOLATE FLAVORED

    3 level tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine,
    1/2 a cup of cold water,
    2 cups of sugar,
    2/3 a cup of cold water,
    1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract,
    1 cup of French candied fruit, cherries, angelica, citron, etc.,
      chopped fine.

Let the gelatine stand in the half cup of cold water until it has taken up all of the water.
Stir the sugar and the two-thirds a cup of cold water over the fire until the sugar is dissolved
and the syrup is boiling, then add the gelatine and let cook twenty minutes; add the cinnamon,
the chocolate, melted over hot water, and beat all together, then add the vanilla and the fruit;
let stand in a cool place for a time, then when it thickens a little turn into an unbuttered
bread pan and set aside until the next day. To unmold separate the paste from the pan--at the
edge--with a sharp-pointed knife. Sift confectioner's sugar over the top, then with the tips
of the fingers gently pull the paste from the pan to a board dredged with confectioner's sugar;
cut into strips, then into small squares. Roll each square in confectioner's sugar. In cutting
keep sugar between the knife and the paste.

CHOICE CHOCOLATE PECAN PRALINES

    3 cups of granulated sugar,
    1 cup of cream,
    1 cup of sugar cooked to caramel,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    3 cups of pecan nut meats.

Stir the sugar and cream over the fire until the sugar is melted, then let boil to the soft
ball degree, or to 236° F. Add the chocolate, melted or shaved fine, and beat it in, then pour
the mixture onto the cup of sugar cooked to caramel; let the mixture boil up once, then remove
from the fire; add the nut meats and beat until the mass begins to thicken. When cold enough
to hold its shape drop onto an oil cloth or marble, a teaspoonful in a place, and at once set
a half nut meat on each. Two persons are needed to make these pralines, one to drop the mixture,
the other to decorate with the halves of the nuts. The mixture becomes smooth and firm almost
instantly. Maple or brown sugar may be used in place of all or a part of the quantity of granulated
sugar designated.

VASSAR FUDGE

    2 cups of white granulated sugar,
    1 cup of cream,
    1 tablespoonful of butter,
    1/4 a cake of Baker's Premium No. 1 Chocolate.

Put in the sugar and cream, and when this becomes hot put in the chocolate, broken up into
fine pieces. Stir vigorously and constantly. Put in butter when it begins to boil. Stir until
it creams when beaten on a saucer. Then remove and beat until quite cool and pour into buttered
tins. When cold cut in diamond-shaped pieces.

SMITH COLLEGE FUDGE

Melt one-quarter cup of butter. Mix together in a separate dish one cup of white sugar, one
cup of brown sugar, one-quarter cup of molasses and one-half cup of cream. Add this to the
butter, and after it has been brought to a boil continue boiling for two and one-half minutes,
stirring rapidly. Then add two squares of Baker's Premium No. 1 Chocolate, scraped fine. Boil
this five minutes, stirring it first rapidly, and then more slowly towards the end. After it
has been taken from the fire, add one and one-half teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Then stir constantly
until the mass thickens. Pour into buttered pan and set in a cool place.

WELLESLEY MARSHMALLOW FUDGE

Heat two cups of granulated sugar and one cup of rich milk (cream is better). Add two squares
of Baker's Chocolate, and boil until it hardens in cold water. Just before it is done add a
small piece of butter, then begin to stir in marshmallows, crushing and beating them with a
spoon. Continue to stir in marshmallows, after the fudge has been taken from the fire, until
half a pound has been stirred into the fudge. Cool in sheets three-quarters of an inch thick,
and cut in cubes.

DOUBLE FUDGE

    2 cups of granulated sugar,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    1/2 a cup of cream,
    1 tablespoonful of butter.

Boil seven minutes; then beat and spread in buttered tin to cool.

    2 cups of brown sugar,
    1/2 a cup of cream,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract,
    1 cup of walnut meats, chopped fine,
    Butter size of a walnut.

Boil ten minutes; then beat and pour on top of fudge already in pan. When cool, cut in squares.

MARBLED FUDGE

    2 cups of granulated sugar,
    1/4 a cup of glucose (pure corn syrup),
    1-1/2 cups of cream,
    1 tablespoonful of butter,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate, scraped fine or melted,
    2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla.

Stir the sugar, glucose and cream over a slack fire until the sugar is melted; move the saucepan
to a hotter part of the range and continue stirring until the mixture boils, then let boil,
stirring every three or four minutes very gently, until the thermometer registers 236° F.,
or, till a soft ball can be formed in cold water. Remove from the fire and pour one-half of
the mixture over the chocolate. Set both dishes on a cake rack, or on something that will allow
the air to circulate below the dishes. When the mixture cools a little, get some one to beat
one dish of the fudge; add a teaspoonful of vanilla to each dish, and beat until thick and
slightly grainy, then put the mixture in a pan, lined with waxed paper, first a little of one
and then of the other, to give a marbled effect. When nearly cold turn from the pan, peel off
the paper and cut into cubes.

Boil the sugar, milk and water to 236° F., or to the "soft ball" degree; stir gently every
few minutes; add the butter and let boil up vigorously, then remove from the fire and add the
chocolate; let stand undisturbed until cool, then add the vanilla and beat the candy until
it thickens and begins to sugar. Pour into a pan lined with paper to stand until cooled somewhat;
turn from the mold and with a French cutter or a sharp edged tube cut into symmetrical shapes.

MARSHMALLOW FUDGE

    1st BATCH

    2 cups of granulated sugar,
    1 cup of cream,
    1/4 a teaspoonful of salt,
    1 tablespoonful of butter,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla,
    Nearly half a pound of marshmallows, split in halves.

Start with the first batch and when this is nearly boiled enough, set the second batch to cook,
preparing it in the same manner as the first. Stir the sugar and cream, over a rather slack
fire, until the sugar is melted, when the sugar boils wash down the sides of the pan as in
making fondant, set in the thermometer and cook over a quick fire, without stirring, to the
soft ball degree, 236° F.; add the butter, salt and chocolate, melted or shaved fine, and let
boil up vigorously, then remove to a cake cooler (or two spoon handles to allow a circulation
of air below the pan). In the meantime the second batch should be cooking and the marshmallows
be gotten ready. When the first batch is about cold add the vanilla and beat the candy vigorously
until it begins to thicken, then turn it into a pan lined with waxed paper. At once dispose
the halves of marshmallows close together upon the top of the fudge. Soon the other dish of
fudge will be ready; set it into cold water and when nearly cold, add the vanilla and beat
as in the first batch, then pour it over the marshmallows. When the whole is about cold turn
it onto a marble, or hardwood board, pull off the paper and cut into cubes. If one is able
to work very quickly, but one batch need be prepared, half of it being spread over the marshmallows.

    CHOCOLATE FOR DIPPING

    1/2 a cake or more of Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

Stir the sugar, syrup, glucose and cream until the sugar is melted, cover and let boil three
or four minutes, then uncover and let boil stirring often but very gently until a soft ball
may be formed in cold water, or, until the thermometer registers 236° F. Set the saucepan on
a cake cooler and when the mixture becomes cool, add the fruit and beat until it becomes thick,
then turn into pans lined with waxed paper. In about fifteen minutes cut into squares. Coat
these with the "Dot" Chocolate.

CHOCOLATE COCOANUT CAKES

    2/3 a cup of granulated sugar,
    1/4 a cup scant measure of water,
    One cup, less one tablespoonful, of glucose,
    1/2 a pound of dessicated cocoanut,
    1/2 a pound or Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

Heat the sugar, water and glucose to the boiling point, add the cocoanut and stir constantly
while cooking to the soft ball degree, or, until a little of the candy dropped on a cold marble
may be rolled into a ball. Drop, by small teaspoonfuls, onto a marble or waxed paper, to make
small, thick, rather uneven rounds. When cold coat with "Dot" Chocolate melted over hot water
and cooled properly. These cakes are very easily coated.

BAKER'S CHOCOLATE "DIVINITY"

    1-1/2 cups of brown sugar,
    1 cup of maple syrup,
    1/2 a cup of glucose pure corn syrup,
    1/2 a cup of water,
    1/4 a teaspoonful of salt,
    The whites of 2 eggs,
    1 cup of nut meats, chopped fine,
    2 squares of Baker's Chocolate, broken in pieces.

Let the sugar, syrup, glucose and water stand on the back of the range, stirring occasionally,
until the sugar is melted, then cover and let boil five minutes. Remove the cover and let boil
to soft crack, 287° F., or, until when tested in water a ball that rattles in the cup will
be formed. Add the salt and chocolate and beat over the fire, until the chocolate is melted,
then pour in a fine stream onto the whites of eggs, beaten dry, beating constantly meanwhile;
add the nuts and pour into a pan lined with waxed paper. In about fifteen minutes lift the
candy from the pan (by the ends of the paper left for the purpose) and cut it into small oblongs
or squares. The candy must be stirred constantly during the last of the cooking. In cooking
without a thermometer one is liable to remove the candy from the fire too soon--if this happens,
return, egg whites and all, to the saucepan, set this into a dish of boiling water and stir
constantly until the mixture thickens, then pour into the pan lined with paper. On no account
let even a few drops of water boil into the candy. Chocolate.

Put the sugar, glucose, honey, paraffine and water over the fire, stir occasionally and let
boil to the hard ball degree, about 248° F. Add the salt to the eggs before beating them, and
gradually pour on part of the syrup, beating constantly meanwhile with the egg beater; return
the rest of the syrup to the fire and let boil until it is brittle when tested in cold water
or to 290° F. Then turn this gradually onto the eggs, beating constantly meanwhile. Return
the whole to the saucepan, set over the fire on an asbestos mat and beat constantly until it
becomes crisp when tested in cold water. Pour into a buttered pan a little larger than an ordinary
bread pan and set aside to become cold. When cold cut into pieces about an inch and a quarter
long and three-eighths of an inch wide and thick. Coat these with "Dot" Chocolate.

Put the sugar, glucose, butter, cream of tartar and one cup of the milk over the fire, stir
constantly, and when the mass has boiled a few moments, gradually stir in the rest of the milk.
Do not let the mixture stop boiling while the milk is being added. Stir every few moments and
cook to 248° F., or, until when tested in cold water, a hard ball may be formed; add the chocolate
and vanilla and beat them thoroughly through the candy, then turn it into two bread pans. When
nearly cold cut into squares.

CHOCOLATE NUT CARAMELS

    2 cups of granulated sugar,
    1-1/2 cups of glucose (pure corn syrup),
    2 cups of cream,
    1 cup of butter,
    3 or 4 squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    1-1/2 cups of English walnut meats,
    2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla extract.

Put the sugar, glucose, one cup of the cream and the butter over the fire; stir and cook until
the mixture boils vigorously, then gradually add the other cup of cream. Do not allow the mixture
to stop boiling while the cream is being added. Cook until the thermometer registers 250° F.,
stirring gently--move the thermometer, to stir beneath it--every four or five minutes. Without
a thermometer boil until--when tested by dropping a little in cold water--a hard ball may be
formed in the water. Remove from the fire, add the chocolate and nuts and beat until the chocolate
is melted; beat in the vanilla and turn into a biscuit pan, nicely oiled or buttered, to make
a sheet three-fourths an inch thick. When nearly cold turn from the pan and cut into cubes.

    WHITE LAYER

    2/3 a cup of granulated sugar,
    1/4 (scant) a cup of water,
    1 cup, less one tablespoonful, of glucose (pure corn syrup),
    1/3 a pound of dessicated cocoanut.

Put the sugar, glucose, butter, cream of tartar and the fourth a cup of milk over the fire,
stir until the mixture boils, then very gradually stir in the rest of the milk. Let cook, stirring
occasionally, to 248° F., or until, when tested in water or on a cold marble, a pretty firm
ball may be formed. Add the chocolate and vanilla, mix thoroughly and turn into two well-buttered
shallow pans. For the white layer, put the sugar, water and glucose over the fire, stir until
boiling, then add the cocoanut and stir occasionally until a soft ball may be formed when a
little of the mixture is dropped upon a cold marble. Put this mixture over the fire, to dissolve
the sugar, but do not let it begin to boil until the chocolate layers are turned into the pans.
When the white mixture is ready, turn enough of it onto one of the chocolate layers to make
a layer about one-third an inch thick. Have the other chocolate layer cooled, by standing in
cold water; remove it from the pan and dispose above the cocoanut layer. Let stand until cold
and firm, then cut in cubes; wrap each cube in waxed paper.

FONDANT

    4 cups of granulated sugar,
    1-1/2 cups of cold water,
    1/4 a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, or 3 drops of acetic acid.

Stir the sugar and water in a saucepan, set on the back part of the range, until the sugar
is melted, then draw the saucepan to a hotter part of the range, and stir until the boiling
point is reached; add the cream of tartar or acid and, with the hand or a cloth wet repeatedly
in cold water, wash down the sides of the saucepan, to remove any grains of sugar that have
been thrown there. Cover the saucepan and let boil rapidly three or four minutes. Remove the
cover, set in the thermometer--if one is to be used--and let cook very rapidly to 240° F.,
or the soft ball degree. Wet the hand in cold water and with it dampen a marble slab or a large
platter, then without jarring the syrup turn it onto the marble or platter. Do not scrape out
the saucepan or allow the last of the syrup to drip from it, as sugary portions will spoil
the fondant by making it grainy. When the syrup is cold, with a metal scraper or a wooden spatula,
turn the edges of the mass towards the center, and continue turning the edges in until the
mass begins to thicken and grow white, then work it up into a ball, scraping all the sugar
from the marble onto the mass; knead slightly, then cover closely with a heavy piece of cotton
cloth wrung out of cold water. Let the sugar stand for an hour or longer to ripen, then remove
the damp cloth and cut the mass into pieces; press these closely into a kitchen bowl, cover
with a cloth wrung out of water (this cloth must not touch the fondant) and then with heavy
paper. The fondant may be used the next day, but is in better condition after several days,
and may be kept almost indefinitely, if the cloth covering it be wrung out of cold water and
replaced once in five or six days. Fondant may be used, white or delicately colored with vegetable
color-pastes or with chocolate, as frosting for small cakes, or éclairs or for making candy
"centers," to be coated with chocolate or with some of the same fondant tinted and flavored
appropriately.

ALMOND CHOCOLATE CREAMS

    CENTERS

    1/4 a cup of blanched almonds, chopped fine,
    1/2 a cup of fondant,
    1/4 a teaspoonful of vanilla,
    Confectioner's sugar for kneading and shaping.

Mix the chopped almonds with the fondant and vanilla; add confectioner's sugar, a little at
a time, and knead the mass thoroughly, on a marble or large platter; shape into a long roll,
then cut into small pieces of the same size. Shape these into balls a generous half inch in
diameter and leave them about an hour to harden on the outside. Put the fondant for the coating
and the chocolate (shaved or broken in pieces) in a double boiler (with hot water in the lower
receptacle); add the vanilla and the water and heat until melted; take out the spoon and put
in a dipping fork (a wire fork costing about ten cents) beat the fondant, to keep it from crusting
and drop in a "center;" with the fork cover it with fondant; put the fork under it and lift
it out, scrape the fork lightly on the edge of the dish, to remove superfluous candy, turn
the fork over and drop the bon-bon onto waxed paper. Make a design with the fork in taking
it from the candy. At once press half of a blanched almond on the top of the candy, or the
design made with the fork will suffice. If at any time the coating be too thick, add a few
drops of water. If any be left over, use it to coat whole nuts or cherries.

CHERRY CHOCOLATE CREAMS

    CENTERS

    1/4 a cup of candied cherries, chopped fine,
    1/2 a cup of fondant.

Prepare the centers and coat in the same manner as the almond creams.

CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINTS

Melt a little fondant and flavor it to taste with essence of peppermint; leave the mixture
white or tint very delicately with green or pink color-paste. With a teaspoon drop the mixture
onto waxed paper to make rounds of the same size--about one inch and a quarter in diameter--let
these stand in a cool place about one hour. Put about a cup of fondant in a double boiler,
add two ounces of chocolate and a teaspoonful of boiling water, then stir (over hot water)
until the fondant and chocolate are melted and evenly mixed together; then drop the peppermints,
one by one, into the chocolate mixture, and remove them with the fork to a piece of oil cloth;
let stand until the chocolate is set, when they are ready to use.

FIG-AND-NUT CHOCOLATES

    5 figs,
    3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of water or sherry wine,
    1/2 a cup of English walnut meats,
    Powdered sugar,
    Fondant,
    3 or 4 ounces of Baker's Chocolate,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla.

Remove the stem and hard place around the blossom end of the figs, and let steam, with the
water or wine, in a double boiler until softened, then add the nuts and chop very fine. Add
powdered sugar as is needed to shape the mixture into balls. Melt the chocolate, using enough
to secure the shade of brown desired in the coating and add to the fondant with the vanilla.
Coat the fig-and-nut balls and drop them with the fork onto a piece of oil cloth or waxed paper
in the same manner as the cherry bon-bons. These may be dipped in "Dot" Chocolate instead of
fondant.

CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOWS

Cut the marshmallows in halves, and put them, one by one, cut side down, in chocolate fondant
(as prepared for almond and cherry chocolate creams), melted over hot water and flavored to
taste with vanilla. Beat the chocolate with the fork, that it may not crust over, lift out
the marshmallow, turn it and, in removing the fork, leave its imprint in the chocolate; sprinkle
at once with a little fine-chopped pistachio nut meat. To prepare the nuts, set them over the
fire in tepid water to cover, heat to the boiling point, drain, cover with cold water, then
take them up, one by one, and with the thumb and finger push the meat from the skin.

MAPLE FONDANT ACORNS

    2 cups of maple syrup,
    1-3/4 cups of granulated sugar,
    3/4 a cup of cold water,
    Confectioner's sugar,
    2 or more squares of Baker's Chocolate,
    1 teaspoon of vanilla,
    About 1/4 a cup of fine-chopped almonds, browned in the oven.

Make fondant of the syrup, granulated sugar and cold water, following the directions given
for fondant made of granulated sugar (cream of tartar or other acid is not required in maple
fondant). Work some of the fondant, adding confectioner's sugar as needed, into cone shapes;
let these stand an hour or longer to harden upon the outside. Put a little of the fondant in
a dish over hot water; add Baker's Chocolate and vanilla as desired and beat till the chocolate
is evenly mixed through the fondant, then dip the cones in the chocolate and set them on a
piece of oil cloth or waxed paper. When all are dipped, lift the first one dipped from the
paper and dip the base again in the chocolate, and then in the chopped-and-browned almonds.
Continue until all have been dipped.

CHOCOLATE ALMOND BARS

    1/2 a cup of sugar,
    3/4 a cup of glucose,
    1/2 a cup of water,
    (1/4 an ounce of paraffine at discretion),
    1/2 a cup of blanched almonds, chopped fine,
    1/3 the recipe for fondant,
    3 or 4 ozs. of Baker's Chocolate,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla.

Melt the sugar in the water and glucose and let boil to about 252° F., or between a soft and
a hard ball. Without the paraffine cook a little higher than with it. Add the almonds and the
vanilla, mix thoroughly and turn onto a marble or platter over which powdered sugar has been
sifted. Turn out the candy in such a way that it will take a rectangular shape on the marble.
When cool enough score it in strips about an inch and a quarter wide, and, as it grows cooler,
lift the strips, one by one, to a board and cut them in pieces half or three-quarters of an
inch wide. When cold, drop them, sugar side down, in chocolate fondant prepared for "dipping."
With the fork push them below the fondant, lift out, drain as much as possible, and set onto
oil cloth. These improve upon keeping. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Wash down the sides
of the kettle as in making fondant. Let boil to the soft ball degree or to 238° F. Add the
almond paste, cut into small, thin pieces, let boil up vigorously, then turn onto a damp marble.
When nearly cold turn to a cream with a wooden spatula. It will take considerable time to turn
this mixture to fondant. Cover and let stand half an hour. Add the Baker's Premium Chocolate,
melted over hot water, and knead it in thoroughly. Add at the same time the vanilla. The chocolate
must be added warm. At once cut off a portion of the fondant and knead it into a round ball;
then roll it lightly under the fingers into a long strip the shape and size of a lead pencil;
form as many of these strips as desired; cut the strips into two-inch lengths and let stand
to become firm. Have ready the "Dot" Chocolate melted over hot water and in this coat the prepared
sticks leaving the surface a little rough.

ALMOND FONDANT BALLS

Roll part of the almond fondant into small balls. Some of the "Dot" Chocolate will be left
after dipping the almond chocolate sticks. Remelt this over hot water, and in it coat the balls
lightly. As each ball is coated with the chocolate drop it onto a plate of chopped pistachio
nut meats or of chopped cocoanut (fresh or dessicated). With a spoon sprinkle the chopped material
over the balls. Chocolate.

Put the sugar, condensed milk and water over the fire to boil, stir gently but often, and let
cook to the soft ball stage, or to 238°F. Pour on a damp marble and let stand undisturbed until
cold; turn to a cream, then gather into a compact mass; cover with a bowl and let stand for
thirty minutes; then knead the cream; put it into a double boiler; add the caramel syrup and
the vanilla; stir constantly while the mixture becomes warm and thin; add a tablespoonful or
two of water, if necessary, and drop the cream mixture into impressions made in cornstarch.
Use two teaspoons to drop the cream. When the candy is cold, pick it from the starch. With
a small brush remove the starch that sticks to the candy shapes. Coat each piece with "Dot"
Chocolate. As each piece is coated and dropped onto the oil cloth, set half an English walnut
meat upon the top.

TO MOLD CANDY IN STARCH IMPRESSIONS

Many candies, especially such as are of some variety of fondant, are thin when warm and solidify
on the outside when cold, so that they may be "dipped" or coated with chocolate. To shape candy
of this sort, fill a low pan with cornstarch, making it smooth upon the top. Have ready molds
made of plaster paris, glued to a thin strip of wood, press these into the cornstarch; lift
from the starch and repeat the impressions as many times as the space allows. If molds are
not available a thimble, round piece of wood, or the stopper of an oil or vinegar cruet will
answer the purpose, though the impressions must be made one at a time. This process is longer
than with the ordinary fondant. Cover the chocolate fondant with a bowl and let stand for thirty
minutes; knead well and set over the fire in a double boiler; add the vanilla and stir until
melted. The mixture is now ready to be dropped into small impressions in starch; when cold
and brushed free of starch dip in "Dot" Chocolate. When dropping the chocolate mixture into
the starch it should be just soft enough to run level on the top. If too soft it will not hold
its shape in coating.

FONDANT FOR SOFT CHOCOLATE CREAMS

    2-1/2 cups of sugar,
    1/3 a cup of glucose (pure corn syrup),
    1 cup of water.

Put the sugar, glucose and water over the fire and stir until boiling, then wash down the sides
of the saucepan, cover and finish cooking as in making ordinary fondant. Let cook to 238° F.
Turn the syrup onto a damp marble or platter and before it becomes cold turn to a cream with
a wooden spatula. When the fondant begins to stiffen, scrape at once into a bowl and cover
with a damp cloth, but do not let the cloth touch the fondant. Use this fondant in the following
recipes. With the point of a toothpick take up a little of the color-paste and add to the fondant;
add the extract and stir until the mixture is hot, thin and evenly tinted. With two teaspoons
drop the mixture into impressions made in starch; it should be hot and thin enough to run level
on top. When the shapes are cold, remove from the starch, brush carefully and coat with "Dot"
Chocolate.

PISTACHIO CHOCOLATE CREAMS

    Fondant,
    Green color-paste,
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract,
    1/8 a teaspoonful of almond extract,
    Pistachio nuts in slices and halves,
    1/2 a pound of Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

Using green color-paste, vanilla and almond extract mold the fondant in long shapes. Put a
bit of nut in each impression, before filling it with fondant. When firm coat with "Dot" Chocolate
and set half a pistachio nut on top.

SURPRISE CHOCOLATE CREAMS

    Fondant,
    Candied or Maraschino cherries,
    Flavoring of almond or vanilla,
    Chopped peanuts,
    1/2 a pound of Baker's "Dot" Chocolate.

