It was shortly after five o'clock when the Hurds' butler opened the front door to admit a company
of four.  These intruders, waiting no bidding and ignoring altogether the fact that one of
their number had been forbidden the house, made their cheerful way, headed by Mrs. Wilkinson,
into the drawing room, there to greet with effusive welcome a stern-faced, elderly lady, who
met them with a broad smile, but who almost instantly, to her own infinite surprise and discomfiture,
burst into tears.  These rapidly abated, when there was heard a sound in the hall, a sound
which the quick ears of Mr. Wilkinson distinguished at once.

"The lion comes!" he murmured in Isabel's ear; and an involuntary hush descended upon the company.
Thud, thud, thud--the firm steps approached; the arras was drawn back by a deliberate hand;
and into the drawing room, his manner as easy and composed as ever, came Mr. Hurd. Two steps
he made inside the room, then stopped.  His glance instantly comprehended the little company,
and just for a moment the old, cold light shot into his eye.  But it was only for a moment.

"My dear Isabel, I am very glad to see you home again."

The greeting which the financier would have extended to his other guests was lost forever in
the impulsive rush which landed Mrs. Wilkinson in her father's arms.  Any regret which may
have lingered was banished in the shock of this impact; and it was a resigned parent who emerged
from this embrace to resume his corner in the reunited world.

It remained for his son-in-law to pronounce the valedictory over the vanishing fragments of
the family breach.

"Mr. Hurd, ever since the day you flung in my astounded face my character and attainments,
depicted in simple but effective words of one syllable, I have felt that there was not only
force, but a good deal of truth, in your pungent observations.  As I remember telling you at
the time, had I appreciated the disgraceful facts as you summed them up, I could only in justice
to Isabel have joined my efforts to your own in endeavoring to prevent so fatal an alliance.
But it was too late.  And now that the thing is done, the child of Mr. Hurd, having inherited
some of that gentleman's fixity of purpose and tenacity of idea, is still of the opinion--Isabel,
even if I am wrong, please do not contradict me--that she needs the stimulus of my desultory
presence to keep her en rapport with life.  Isabel has come to find strangely piquant the sensation
of uncertainty as to the approaching meal.  She has come to feel that certainty in such a matter
is a species of bourgeoisie.  At all events we are now Mr. and Mrs. Wilkinson; and however
deeply we regret the lack of enthusiasm in that connection of my esteemed father-in-law, I
can only suggest to him that, although probably no one in the world has as poor an opinion
of me as he has, if he keeps that opinion to himself there is no reason why the world in general
should ever learn the truth.  Certainly it shall be my life work to prevent it; and maybe when
in the years to come I am passing the plate in some far suburban tabernacle of worship, all
will be forgotten.  Helen, may I trouble you to hand me those sandwiches?"

Mr. Hurd emitted a dry chuckle.

"For the honor of the family, Charlie, I'll never tell," he said.

It was dark when at last Miss Maitland, under the escort of Smith, started homeward toward
Deerfield Street.  And even then, not so directly homeward lay their course as the hour might
have warranted. By an impulse which neither resisted, their footsteps turned southeastward
toward the place where they had first viewed the land of the fire's reaping.  On the steel
bridge over the railroad tracks they found themselves at last.

"We didn't really intend to come here, did we?" asked the girl, with a smile.

