  There's a man at Down Street Station--he came there years ago
  To get to Hyde Park Corner--(Sing willow-waly-O!)--
  And, as the trains go past him, 'tis pitiful to see
  Him beat his breast and murmur, "Oh dearie, dearie me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    '"The Rev. R.S. ---- has accepted the post of librarian of Pussy House,
    Oxford."--Local Paper.

And will soon get to work on the catalogue.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WANTED--a middle-aged Witty Indian to read Bengali religious books and
    capable of telling witty and fairy tales from 12 to 3 p.m."--Indian
    Paper.

This might suit Mr. GANDHI. If not witty, he is very good at fairy-tales.

       *       *       *       *       *

VADE MECUMS.

I have invented a new sort of patience. It is called Vade Mecums. The rules are quite simple
and all the plant you need for it is a "Vade Mecum" traveller's handbook and a complete ignorance
of all languages but your own. Get one of these fascinating little classics, a passport and
a single to Boulogne, and you can begin at once.

The game consists in firing off (in the local lingo) every single phrase that occurs in the
book. The only other rule in the game is that the occasion for making each remark must be reasonably
apposite. You need not keep to the order in the book and no points are awarded for pronunciation,
provided that the party addressed shows by word or deed that he (or she) has understood you.
By way of illustration I will give some account of my first experiments in this enthralling
pastime.

As it happened I was able to start at once--too soon, in fact, to be altogether comfortable.
We had scarcely put out from Folkestone before I got my chance. The sea was distinctly rough,
but I just had time to open my Vade Mecum at page 228 (sub-heading, "On embarking and what
happens at sea"), and to read to a passing French steward the first sentence that caught my
eye. It was as follows: "The wind is very violent; the sea is very rough; the waves are very
high; the rolling of the vessel makes my head ache; I am very much inclined to be sick."

After that I made no more progress till we reached Boulogne; but from the steward's subsequent
actions I judged that he had understood; so I was one up.

My Vade Mecum, like most of its kind, was unfortunately compiled many years ago and had never
been brought up to date. This, of course, saved me the expense of having to hire aeroplanes
or even motor-cars, but it landed me in quite a number of difficulties at the opposite extreme,
as you will see.

For instance, in order to polish off the heading, "Of what may happen on the road," I was compelled
to obtain a carriage. Judge then my joy when, on reaching a carriage builder's, I discovered
a whole section tucked away in a corner of the book dealing exclusively with that very topic.
I can think of no other conceivable circumstances under which I could have said, "The wheels
are in a miserable state; the body is too heavy; the springs are too light; the shafts are
too short; the pole is too thin; the shape is altogether old-fashioned, and the seats are both
high and uncomfortable."

Yet now I said it all--in two halves, it is true, and in two different shops; but still I said
it all. The first half cost me three front teeth, which fell out while the outraged carrossier
was ejecting me; the second cost me a large sum of money, because somehow or other I found
I had bought the vehicle in question. This I fancy must have been occasioned by my turning
over two pages at once, so that I suppose I really said, "Mr. X., you are an honest man; I
will give you ten thousand francs, but on condition that you furnish splinter-bars and traces
also for that price."

Still one must pay for one's pleasures, and once en route I made short work of the "What-may-happen-on-the-road"
section. The sentence from which I anticipated most trouble was this: "Postilion, stop. A spoke
of one of the wheels is broken; some of the harness is undone; a spring is also broken and
one of the horses' shoes is come off." I got out all this (without having to tell a lie too)
and was just looking feverishly through the book to find phrases to describe the ricketty state
of every other part of the vehicle when the off hind-wheel came in half, the front axle snapped
and the carriage rolled over on its side stone dead. When I came to myself I found that I was
comfortably seated in a ditch, my driver beside me and my Vade Mecum still open in my hand;
so I had the gratification of being able to continue the conversation where I had left off.
"We should do well," I read, "to get out."

I will not detain you long over the difficulties that I had with the "Society" section. But
I feel I ought to mention the business of the Countess, if only to put intending players on
their guard. There is a puzzling phrase which occurs in answer to the observation, "Pray come
nearer the fire; I am sure you must be cold." The proper answer is, "No, I thank you. I am
very well placed here beside the Countess." It took me a month to find a Countess, two to meet
her in the drawing-room of a mutual friend, and four to recover from the hole which the irascible
little Count made in me when we met next morning on the field of honour.

So I pass sadly and with tears of chagrin to my ultimate defeat. I met my Waterloo, my friends,
in the section labelled "The Tailor." Requests within reason I can comply with, for the fun
of the thing. Eatables and drinks, suites of rooms and carriages, when ordered on the lavish
scale of my Vade Mecum, are not exactly cheap now-a-days. But it's about the limit when one's
Mecum expects one to squander the savings of a lifetime in ordering several suits of clothes
at once. And yet there it was as large as life, the accursed sentence that made me shut the
book with a snap and come home:--"These coats fit me well, though the cut is not fashionable.
I shall require also three pairs of trousers, three nankeen pantaloons and four waistcoats."

If anyone feels inclined to try my patience--and theirs--I should like to mention that I have
a nice annotated Mecum and a good second-hand carriage for disposal at a very moderate figure.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VICTIM OF FASHION.

Like everybody else that one knows, Kidger is an ex-service man. During the last year of that
war on the Continent some time ago he had the acting rank of captain, as second in command
of a six-mangle army laundry.

When I knew him in pre-war days he was an amiable character, with only two serious weaknesses.
One of these was an exaggerated fastidiousness about clothes, and the other an undue deference
to the dicta of the Press. A leader in The Tailor and Cutter would make him thoughtful for
days. This fatal concern about clothing amounted to a mania where neckwear was concerned.

In pre-war days he wore the ordinary single, perpendicular variety of collar, with sharp turn-over
points, starched and white to match his shirts.

Before leaving England to join his laundry, Kidger, with a magnificent gesture, abandoned his
fine collection of collars to his aunt, bidding her convert them to some patriotic end. The
fond lady, however, fearing lest anything should befall her nephew if a hot sector of the line
moved up to the laundry, preserved them carefully, and Kidger was very glad to reclaim them
on his demobilisation.

One unfortunate day Kidger's morning paper contained one of those Fashions for Men columns,
where he learned that the best people were wearing only soft collars, as they couldn't stand
being cooped up in starch after the freedom of uniform. Kidger felt that as an ex-army man
it was up to him to maintain any military tradition, and he immediately bought several dozen,
soft white collars with long sharp points. The fellow in the shop said they were correct.

A week later another expert mentioned in print that no man who had any self-respect wore collars
with sharp corners.

Kidger is not a manual worker. He reduced his cigarette allowance and bought some round-cornered
ones, white as before. And then his aunt directed the poor fellow's attention to a paragraph
by an authority signing himself "The Colonel," which stated that none but the profiteer was
wearing white collars, and that you might know the man who had done his bit by the fact that
he wore a blue one with slightly rounded corners, accompanied by a self-coloured tie of a darker
shade, tied in a neat butterfly bow.

This was a blow to Kidger, but he resigned from his golf club and laid in some haberdashery
in accordance with "The Colonel's" orders. Recommendations would be too mild a word. I saw
the paragraph--most peremptory.

But in a rival paper "Brigadier" mentioned only three days later that none but the most noxious
bounder and tout would be found dead in a blue collar with a white shirt. Kidger saw the truth
of this at once; he had receptivity if not intuition. After a trying interview with his banker
he bought several blue shirts.

Then the General who contributes "Sartorial Tips" to several leading journals remarked that,
since all kinds of people were wearing coloured shirts and collars, the man who desired to
retain or achieve that touch of distinction which means so much must at any cost wear white
ones; and that, further, Society was frowning on the slovenly unstarched neck-wear of the relapsed
temporary gentleman.

Kidger began to show signs of neurasthenia. His stock of pre-war collars was exhausted, or
rather eroded. His faithful aunt, however, remembered a neglected birthday and gave him a dozen
new ones, of the up-and-down model, to save Kidger's delicate neck. These, with his nice butterfly-bow
ties, looked really well, and Kidger recovered his old form.

I warned him to keep to the police and Parliamentary news in the papers, but his eyes would
wander. The result was that he learned from "Brigade Major" that the wearing of a butterfly
bow with a double event collar was a solecism past forgiveness or repentance, and that its
smart appearance was the deadly bait which caught the miserable bumpkin who ignorantly fancied
that a man could dress by the light of nature.

Kidger collapsed. His aunt volunteered to sell her annuity and help him, but the innate nobility
of the man forbade him to accept this useless sacrifice.

His medical attendant tells me that he is now allowed to read only poetry, wearing a sweater
meanwhile, and that arrangements are being made for him to join a sheep-farming cousin in Patagonia,
where collars are despised and newspapers invariably out of date.

W.K.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    A SUPERFLUOUS ANNOUNCEMENT.

    "The Government have found it impossible to proceed with the Government
    of Ireland before the Autumn Session."--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Clerk (Junior) Wanted for Spinners' Office, age 1617.--Yorkshire
    Paper.

"Junior," we take it, is a misprint.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWARD AND THE B.O.F.

It was the first Sunday of the season, and the select end of Folkesbourne revealed in each
carefully curled geranium leaf, in each carefully-combed blade of grass, the thought and labour
expended by the B.O.F. (Borough of Folkesbourne).

Upon the greensward stood orderly rows of well-washed chairs, each with B.O.F. neatly stencilled
upon its back. On this day, however, and at this hour (12.30 P.M.) scarce a B.O.F. was visible;
each was hidden by a well-dressed visitor. And between the orderly rows of well-dressed visitors
paraded orderly pairs of superbly-dressed visitors.

I was standing at the corner by the steps leading to the lower parade and thence to the beach
and the rocks where the common people (myself on week-days, for instance) go to paddle with
their children. I was wearing my new pale-grey suit which cost--but you will know more or less
what it cost; I need not labour an unpleasant subject--and I was actually talking at the time
to a member of the B.O.F.

"This is Peace at last," he was saying; "the place really begins to look--"

It was at this moment that Edward appeared. His route was the very centre of the lawn. He was
wearing a battered Panama hat, a much-darned brownish jersey, and his nether man--or rather
boy, for Edward's years are but four--was encased in paddling drawers made of the same material
as a sponge-bag. Black sand-shoes completed his outfit, and a broken shrimping- net trailed
behind him. At the moment when Edward first caught my horrified eye a particularly well-groomed
young gentleman of about his own age caught Edward's eye in turn. Edward paused to survey this
silken wonder with interest. Then, as if prompted thereto by the sight, he snatched off his
hat and, casting it upon the ground, kicked it vigorously across the grass.

The removal of the hat was the last straw, for Edward's hair is provocatively red. My friend
of the B.O.F. advanced towards him with the intention of exerting authority and restoring discipline.
Edward turned at the sound of a stern voice. Possibly he might have put out his tongue--you
never know with Edward. But, what was worse, far worse, he saw me. With a glad cry of "Daddy"
he rushed to me and, regardless of the fact that his front was covered with green slime, the
result of going ventre à pierre over the rocks, he flung his arms round my legs.

I would gladly have sunk into the ground. All eyes were upon us, and remained, as I felt, upon
me, even when a breathless nursery-maid had retrieved Edward and borne him seawards once more.

One especially I had noticed, a very superbly dressed female visitor who had paused to witness
the whole scene and was now resuming her promenade. I dreaded the comment which I felt I should
overhear as she passed me--"What a horrible child!" it would be at the very least. But women
are strangely unaccountable, even in so highly civilised an atmosphere as this. I distinctly
heard her say, "What a darling!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HORRORS OF PEACE.

    "Wanted.--Boy for Butchering, about 15 years old."--Local Paper.

Extract from a solicitor's letter:--

    "The sale of the above premises is now nearing completion and we expect
    to have the conveyance ready for execution in the course of a short
    period the length of which depends to some extent upon how soon we can
    obtain the execution of the Bishop."

       *       *       *       *       *

NEO-TOPICS.

  There was a young neo-DELANE
  Whose writing was frequently sane;
      But the name of LLOYD GEORGE
      So uplifted his gorge
  That it threatened to swallow his brain.

  There was an adored neo-Queen
  Who ruled the whole world on the screen;
      She simply knocked spots
      Off poor MARY OF SCOTS,
  But she doubled the gloom of our Dean.

  There was an advanced neo-Georgian,
  Or perhaps we should say Georgy-Porgian,
      When asked to declare
      What his principles were,
  He invariably answered, "Pro-Borgian."

  There was a great neo-Art critic
  Whose style was extremely mephitic;
      He treated VAN GOGH
      And CÉZANNE as dead dog,
  And JOHN as a growth parasitic.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BLOATED PLURALISTS.

    "Wanted, Organist. Small country church. Salary £20. Good lodgings.
    (Could be held with post of Milker on Manor Farm; permanent work;
    Sundays free; ample salary.)"--Church Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Grimsby trawler Silurian has towed Sir George Grahame, Minister
    Plenipotentiary in Paris, to be his Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary
    and Plenipotentiary to the King of the Belgians."--Provincial Paper.

We really think the Government might have provided him with a torpedo-boat.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The one thing which the Cabinet does not intend to do is to authorise
    the proclamation of marital law. It would engage far too many troops."
    --Provincial Paper.

The Irish girls are so attractive.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A friend of mine bought from a bookseller who was also, oddly enough,
    a bibliophile himself, a copy of Arnold's very rare book, The Strayed
    Revetter, by A. He gave 6d. It is worth £5."--Book Post.

Surely more than that!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An Ipswichomnibus pushed its bonnet through the window of a millinery
    shop."--Daily Paper.

This intelligent animal (believed to be the female of the Brontosaurus) was probably seeking
a change of headgear.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

I rather wish that the publishers of Invincible Minnie (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) had not permitted
themselves to print upon the wrapper either their own comments or those of Miss ELISABETH SANXAY
HOLDING, the author. Because for my part, reading these, I formed the idea (entirely wrong)
that the book would be in some way pretentious and affected; whereas it is the simple truth
to call it the most mercilessly impersonal piece of fiction that I think I ever read. There
is far too much plot for me to give you any but a suggestion of it. The story is of the lives
of two sisters, Frances and Minnie; mostly (as the title implies) of Minnie. To say that no
one but a woman would have dared to imagine such a heroine, much less to follow her, through
every phase of increasing hatefulness, to her horrid conclusion is to state an obvious truism.
It is incidentally also to give you some idea of the kind of person Minnie is, that female
Moloch, devastating, all-sacrificing, beyond restraint.... As for Miss HOLDING, the publishers
turned out to be within the mark in claiming for her "a new voice." I don't, indeed, for the
moment recall any voice in the least like it, or any such method; too honest for irony, too
detached for sentiment and, as I said above, entirely merciless. Towards the end I found myself
falling back on the old frightened protest, "People don't do these things." I still cling to
this belief, but the fact remains that Miss HOLDING has a haunting trick of persuading one
that they might. Minor faults, such as an irritating idiom and some carelessness of form, she
will no doubt correct; meanwhile you have certainly got to read--"to suffer" would be the apter
word--this remarkable book, whose reception I await with curiosity.

       *       *       *       *       *

