LEGION kept all these letters in a book, and published some of them as advertisements of his
Cebren and Paris (an unsuccessful Newdigate), when it appeared in a volume, with an astonishingly
decorative cover. It was a classical piece, in blank verse. Cebren, the father of Oenone, is
represented asking Paris what his intentions are as regards that lady. It was piece of classical
genre, the author said: such interviews must have occurred when a young Trojan prince, with
no particular expectations, paid marked attentions to the daughter of a River-god, like Cebren.
Here is a specimen piece,--

  "Now mark me, Paris," said the River-god,
  Seated among the damp lush water-weeds,
  His tresses crowned with crow's-foot,--"Mark my words,
  Thou dalliest with my daughter; what thine aim,
  I ask, and crave an answer--great thy line,
  The lineage of renowned Laomedon.
  Thy sires have wedded goddesses ere now.
  But wealthy though the House of Troy may be.
  Thy father has a monstrous family,
  Daughters and sons as countless as the rills
  That Ida sends to be my tributaries.
  What he can give thee, what thy prospects are,
  What settlements thou art prepared to make,
  If thou wouldst lead Oenone to the altar,
  This would I know; excuse an anxious sire!"

  Then Paris murmured:--
        "Honourable but vague,
  Remote, but honourable, my purpose is:"
  And that great River-god arose in flood,
  Monstrous, and murmuring, and to the main.

Some accused LEGION of plagiarising the last line and a half, which reminded them, they said,
of MARLOWE. But he replied that great wits jump, that it was an accidental coincidence. The
public, which rarely cares much for poetry, was struck by Cebren and Paris. "There is in it,"
said the Parthenon, "an original music, and a chord is struck, reverberating from the prehistoric
years, which will find an answer in the heart of every father of a family." The Clergy at large
quoted Cebren and Paris in their charges and sermons, and the work was a favourite prize at
seminaries for young ladies. Consequently all the other poets, whom nobody buys, arose, and
blasphemed Cebren and Paris in all the innumerable reviews. This greatly, and justly, added
to the popularity of LEGION's book. He followed it up by Idylls of the Nursery, a volume of
exquisite pieces on infants as yet incapable of speaking or walking. This had an enormous success
among young newly-married people, an enthusiastic class of the community. At recitations you
might hear--

  Tootsy, wootsy, pooty sing,
  Mammie's darling, icky thing!
  Coral lips that fret the coral,
  Innocence completely moral.
      Sweet Babe,
        They say,
    Naught rhymes to Babe,
        In any lay
  Save "astrolabe,"--
  And Tippoo Saib!
      Oh, tiny face,
        And tiny feet,
      Oh, infant grace,
         So incomplete,
    Kiss me, my Sweet!

In sequence to these effusions, LEGION poured forth Ballades, and Rondeaux, and wrote a Chant
Royal on a General Election which occupied a whole column of a newspaper, and needed three
men to read, with a boy for the "envoy." But this ditty was not thought to have seriously affected
the voting classes in any direction. LEGION was now usually spoken of as "the versatile Mr.
LEGION," a compliment which never failed to annoy him hugely. Sated with popular applause,
he turned into a vein of new poetry, and produced The Song of the Spud, which, his admirers
averred was "racy of the soil." A grand English Opera, on the Pilgrimage of Grace, was performed,
at immense expense, LEGION being the Librettist. It was patriotic, but not exactly popular.
Still, with all these claims on his country, LEGION lived in hopes which were wofully disappointed;
for, when his chance came at last, a Prime Minister of modern ideas declared that, as a Laureate
is not useful, he must be ornamental. Now, neither LEGION, nor any of his rivals, could be
called decorative, whatever they might have been in their youth. They needed laurels, for the
same reason as JULIUS CÆSAR. The wreath was therefore offered (by a Plébiscite conducted in
a newspaper) to the young Lady-poet whose verses and photograph secured the greatest number
of votes; the Laureate, in every case, to resign, on attaining her twenty-fifth birthday. The
beautiful and accomplished Mrs. JINGLEY JONES triumphed in this truly modern competition, and
her book was rushed into a sale of two hundred and fifty copies. After this check the writing
of poetry ceased to attract male enterprise--to the extreme joy of Publishers and Reviewers;
though the market for waste-paper received a shock from which it never rallied. The youthful
male population of England determined never to become Poets, unless they were born Poets, a
resolution on which, at all times, a minority of the race had acted, with the best results.

       *       *       *       *       *

"NOTES AND PAPER."--There is a lot of "paper" about from "Walker--London." No, Mr. JOHNNIE
TOOLE, Sir, not your "paper," for your House is crammed and your "paper" is at a premium. But
this particular WALKER, of Warwick House, London, sends forth "Society Stationery"--"which,"
as Mrs. Gamp would have said, "spelling of it with an 'a' instead of an 'e,' Society never
is." Among the lot there's an "Antique Society Paper," which should be a Society Paper as old
as the world itself, or it might be used by a Fossilised Fogey Club. WALKER & Co.'s new "Society
Paper," whether antique or modern, is pretty and quite harmless--till pen and ink are at work
on it; and then--but that's another story.

       *       *       *       *       *

COSTS AS THEY ARE AND WILL BE.

(TWO SCENES FROM A FARCICAL TRAGEDY SHOWING THAT SOME OF THE JUDGES' RECOMMENDATIONS MIGHT
BE ADOPTED IMMEDIATELY.)

THE PRESENT (AS THEY ARE). SCENE--SOLICITOR'S PRIVATE ROOM. SOLICITOR AWAITING WEALTHY CLIENT.
CLERK IN ATTENDANCE.

Solicitor. The lady is to be shown in the moment she arrives; and mind, I am not to be disturbed
as long as she is here.

Clerk. Yes, Sir. [Exit.

Sol. Quite pleasant way of spending a morning. (Enter Client.) Ah, my dear lady, and how are you?

Client. Very well, thank you; but BOBBY is not so well, and as for MARY--

    [Enters into long domestic details.

Sol. (in a sympathetic tone). Dear me! And what has given me the pleasure of seeing you here
to-day?

Client. I only looked in to ask you how you thought our suit was going on?

Sol. Oh, capitally! You know, we have had several appointments before the Chief Clerk in Chambers,
and--

    [Enters into long explanation, bristling with
    technicalities.

Client (quite at sea). Dear me, what a complicated affair a Chancery suit is! I had no idea
we should have to do all this. But won't it be very expensive?

Sol. (smiling). Well, yes; but it will all be paid out of the estate. You, my dear lady, won't
have to pay anything for it--I mean out of your own pocket.

Client. Oh, that is delightful! Because you see with the carriages and the opera-box-- And
that reminds me, I think I shall give up the opera-box. Do you know last Season the music was
magnificent, but quite too learned. I think-- (Gives her views at great length upon the Opera,
past, present and future. At the end of her remarks--) But how I do run on! I am afraid I am
taking up your time.

Sol. Not at all. I have nothing particular to do, and our interview comes out of the estate.
Now are you sure we can do nothing for you this morning? The last time you were here we got
copies of all the orders for you. I hope you received them safely.

Client (laughing). Why, I do not think I have opened the packet! I came across a bundle the
other day, and could not make out what it was, and laid it aside, because I saw your name upon
it and thought it must have something to do with that troublesome Chancery suit.

Sol. (laughing). Well, my dear Madam, that parcel represented several pounds. However, it doesn't
matter; you won't have to pay for it, as it will come out of the estate. And now, what can
we do for you? Have you looked into the accounts carefully?

Client. No, and I am rather fond of figures.

Sol. Then we will send you a copy for, say, the last five years.

Client. Shall I be able to make them out?

Sol. You ought to be able to do so, my dear Madam. They will be prepared by a leading firm
of Accountants, and we will check them ourselves before we send them to you. Is there anything
else?

Client. No thanks--I think not. And now I must say good-bye. I am ashamed to take up so much
of your valuable time.

Sol. Not at all. I shall be amply remunerated out of the estate. (Exit Client. Solicitor gives
his Clerk the heads for six folios of a bill of costs, and then observes--) Not a bad morning's
work!

THE FUTURE (AS THEY WILL BE). SCENE--THE SAME. SOLICITOR AND CLERK DISCOVERED.

Sol. Now mind, on no account is she to be admitted. She talks about all sorts of things and
takes up my time dreadfully, and now the Court won't pass "luxurious costs," and objects to
payment out of the estate, I can charge nothing. So mind, she is not to be admitted.

Clerk. Very good, Sir. [Exit.

Sol. Yes. At my very busiest time, when every moment is valuable! (Enter Client.) What you,
my dear Madam! I really am too busy to attend to you this morning.

Client (astonished). Why you said you were always pleased to see me!

Sol. But that was before the Judges' recommendations were adopted. Nowadays we must not let
you run up costs until we have explained to you in writing what you are about. And as all you
say will come out of your own pocket, and not out of the estate, it is only fair to warn you.

Client. What, out of my own pocket! Then I shall be off.

Sol. Sorry to give up our pleasant conversations, but they run into money. (Exit Client, when
the Solicitor shakes his head to the Clerk who has brought his rough draft of costs, and to
which nothing now can be legally added, and observes--) Not a good day's work!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOOM-DE-AY POET.

    ["Mr. RICHARD MORTON, the author of "Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay,"
    has been called to prove what would be a reasonable figure for
    the whole proprietary rights of a song."--Times Law Reports,
    Nov. 3rd.]

  He came before the public t'other day!--
  The Author of "Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay!"
  'Twas in a case before Judge GRANTHAM brought
  (It should have been in Justice "COLLINS'" Court)
  When the Inspired Bard the Jury faced.
  As he within the witness-box was placed.
  He told us how his Pegasus would fly
  From plain (two guineas) up to (ten) the sky!
  But for the song he wrote for LOTTIE fair
  We hope he was a-Lottie'd a large share
  In all its earnings. May it not be long
  Ere he produce another catching song;
  But should he fail, then when the poet's clay
  Be laid to rest, it will suffice to say,
  "Vixit. He wrote 'Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. R., on hearing that a Cricket-team, though not first-rate, had a leaven of good players,
inquired how they could have more of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERA-GOERS' DIARY.

Covent Garden, Tuesday, Nov. 1st.--Tristan und Isolde. About the dullest thing that even a
much-enduring Wagnerite ever heard. Glass down to zero.

Wednesday.--Glass up again. Orféo with the two RAVOGLI and the marvellous BAUERMEISTER as Cupid.
Wonderful little lady BAUERMEISTER-singer! I've said it before, and I repeat it emphatically,
BAUERMEISTER is "a little treasure" to an Operatic Manager. MASCAGNI's Cavalleria Rusticana
was the second course to-night, in which this adaptable lady, the Cupid of the first piece,
appeared as old heart-broken grey-haired Lucia, the mother of the gay Turiddu. Were Sir AUGUSTUS
inclined to introduce a little light English jocosity into this serious Opera, he might give
a line to the implacable Alfio, saying, "I've come to rid you of Turiddu!" If MASCAGNI had
heard this, he would have composed an additional Intermezzo expressing the whole force of the idea.

Thursday.--Carmen expected, but tenor off colour, so change of air (or should say airs) recommended,
and adopted. Audience sent to the country, or, rather, Rusticana brought to them.

Friday.--House crammed. Great excitement to hear MELBA as Aïda, the darky girl. Everybody delighted,
except perhaps MELBA herself, who, on seeing the bouquets, must have murmured, "Trop de fleurs!"
Everybody good. Quite the best night of the Season. To-night BAUERMEISTER appears as Sacerdotessa.
So this week she has been Cupid, an old Peasant woman, Frascita, a Brigand's Young Woman; and
then, being repentant, she finishes as a Priestess! It's a whole life-time in a few days.

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S DETECTION.

Berkeley Square, W.

MR. PUNCH, Sir,

I am surprised to find a Journal of your standing lowering itself to follow the example of
the so-called "Society Journals" by inserting contributions from women!--I have discovered,
no matter how, that My Wife, who always declares she hates letter-writing, has for months past
contributed a long weekly letter to Punch, dealing with racing from a humorous (save the mark!)
point of view! Now I never make jokes myself--at least intentionally--nor do I think it becomes
a man of position to do so--and I quite agree with SWIFT or SHERIDAN (I know it was one of
these infernal clever literary chaps) who said, "A humorous woman is a delusion and a snare!"--so
you may imagine my disgust at finding My Wife writing for a Journal!--why couldn't she have
asked Me to help her?--and signing her articles anonymously too!--for I need hardly tell you
she is no more "GAY" than I am!--at all events when in my society!

Like most busy idlers (that is not intended for a joke)--I go racing a bit, and of course "have
a bit on" like other people, and having tried all the turf-prophets in turn, with unsatisfactory
results, I was delighted to hear from a friend that "a new DANIEL had come to judgment" in
the person of a tipster on Punch, who was "wonderful good"--(it was just the time when she
did blunder on to a winner)--and I made up my mind to follow the new Prophet DANIEL; but, by
Jove! it resulted in a loss, and DANIEL landed me among the lions in no time! These are not
jokes, but sober facts--I plunged heavily on all the "Selections," and am now in the pleasant
position of owing the Ring a substantial sum in addition to "the old," through following My
Wife's advice--whilst her banking-account is considerably augmented through having laid against
her own tips! This may be humorous, but as i said, I don't approve of humour when exercised
on myself!

