Carl Rosa Opera season soon over, then Drama at Drury Lane, and Italian Opera at Covent Garden.
AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS OPERATICUS COUNTICOUNCILLARIUS (Sheriff in posse, Alderman in futuro,
and Lord Mayor in futurissimo) keeps the ball a rolling at both Houses.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

IN THE KNOW.

(By Mr. Punch's Own Prophet.)

The Duke of DUMPSHIRE seems to have been much annoyed by my statement that he killed two trainers
with his own hand, for being caught watching a trial of his Derby horses, and that the Jockey
Club took no action. I beg to inform his Grace and those who approve his methods, that I care
no more for their annoyance than I do for the muddy-minded lucubrations of Mr. JEREMY and his
servile tribe of moon-calves. I have public duties to perform, and if, in the course of my
comments on racing, I should find myself occasionally compelled to run counter to the imbecile
prejudices of some of the aristocratic patrons of the turf, I can assure my readers that I
shall not flinch from the task. I therefore repeat that, in the middle of last month, the Duke
of DUMPSHIRE killed two trainers, and that up to the present time the Jockey Club have not
enforced against him the five-pound penalty which is specially provided by their rules for
offences of this sort. When Mr. JACOBS, who has no aristocratic connections, ventured to lynch
a rascally tout on Newmarket Heath last year, he was made to pay up at once. The contrast is
suggestive.

A lot of jannering nonsense has been talked about Bazaar by the Will-o'-the-Wisps who mislead
the long-suffering public in turf matters. Bazaar is by Rector out of Church Mouse, and in
his pedigree are to be found such well-known roarers as Boanerges and Hallelujah Sal--not much
of a recommendation to anybody except Mr. JEREMY. His own performances are worse than contemptible.
As a two-year old, he was placed second at eight stone to Candlestick in the Warmington Open
Welter Handicap. After that he sprang a curb in the middle of his back, and the fools who train
him actually brought him out to run in the All-aged Selling Plate at Ballymacwhacket. He won
the race easily enough of course, but only an impostor, whose head was stuffed with horsehair,
would attach the least importance to that. Since then he has eaten two pairs of spurs, a halter,
and half of a jockey, which scarcely looks like winning races. I have now relieved my conscience
on the matter, so if the puddle-brains wish to back him, their loss must lie at their own doors.

The Marquis de MILLEPARDON has bought Chowbock for £2000. At the last Epsom Meeting Chowbock
showed himself a fine pace-maker in an East wind, having cantered in from Sister Mary, who
as good as walked round Vilikins when the latter was being tried without his pastern-pad on
the Cotswold Hills. At the same time it must be remembered, that Sister Mary only got home
by a length from Smockfrock, after having been double-girthed and provided with a bucket of
POCOCK'S antiseptic, anti-crib-biting condition balls for internal application over the Newmarket
T. Y. C.

Next week, I may have something to say about Derby prospects. For the present, I can only advise
would-be investors to steer clear of Mr. JEREMY and his quacking, goose-headed parasites.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANGE OF NAME.--M. SUCCI, having succeeded in existing for forty days on water alone, will
henceforth be known as Water-SUCCI.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW I WELCOMED STANLEY.

(Notes of a Very Important Journey.)

Left Victoria by special train. On my road met my dear old friend BROWN. We were boys together.
Nothing I would not do for him. BROWN says the dearest object of his life is to welcome STANLEY.
Can't I take him with me? (This on learning the nature of my expedition.) He is off to Canada
to-morrow--early. More sorry than I can say--impossible. Only invitation for "one." One, myself.
He sighs and we part--it may be for years, it may be for ever. Sorrowful, but cheered up by
party in special train. Everybody in great spirits going to welcome STANLEY. Dearest object
of everybody's life. To pass the time tell one another stories of adventure. Man who was in
the Franco-German War explains how he would have defended Metz if he had been BAZAINE. Man
who went through the Soudan (perhaps a trifle jealous), says if he had been BAZAINE he wouldn't
have defended Metz at all, because BAZAINE was a traitor. Row imminent, so cut in with my adventure
in a life-boat. Graphic account. Ship springing a-leak; men at the pumps; boats given up to
the women and children. The good ship--well, never mind the name of ship; have forgotten it--lurches,
gives one long roll, and sinks! Remaining passengers, headed by myself, swarm up the rigging
to the mizzen-top. High sea, thunder and lightning. Great privations. Sun sinks in red, moon
rises in green. All hope gone, when--hurrah, a sail! It is the life-boat! Slung on board by
ropes. Rockets and coloured lights let off. The coxswain calls upon the crew to "pull blue,"
or "pull white." Startling adventures. On the rocks! Off them! Saved! Everybody pleased with
my story. Keep to myself the fact that I have only once in my life been on board a life-boat--when
it was practising off Lynton. No more stories after mine. Company (disheartened) break up into
groups. Pleased with the scenery. After all, there is no place like Dover--when you stop there.
Glad I am not going to welcome STANLEY on the other side of the Channel. London, Chatham and
Dover Railway arrangements capital, especially when you are travelling en prince.

Ah, here we are at Dover! Meet JONES--of course, he is going to welcome STANLEY. So are SNOOKS
and SMITH. And, as I live, old TOMPKINS! Well, this is very plucky of old TOMPKINS. Thought
he was dead years ago. Says he would not miss STANLEY for worlds. More would I. Great privilege
to welcome him. Feel it most deeply. The greatest explorer of the age. But sea-air has made
me a trifle hungry and thirsty. I daresay lunch is going on somewhere. Find it isn't! Deputation
of Vergers, seemingly from Canterbury Cathedral, headed by a beadle, carrying an ear-trumpet,
forcing their way through crowd. Police arrangements the reverse of satisfactory. Distinguished
proprietor of influential newspaper hustled--possibly mistaken for EMIN PASHA, who would be
de trop on such an occasion. But must have lunch. Not up to form of Signor SUCCI. So avoid
the brilliant but giddy throng, and find out a favourite little restaurant close to the Lord
Warden. French plats and some excellent Grave. Know the Grave of old--seldom asked for, and
so kept long in bottle. Order a nice little luncheon and feel rather sleepy. Luncheon ready.
Do it justice, and fancy suddenly that I am in charge of the lamp in a lighthouse. Rough night.
Ah! the life-boat! manned by old TOMPKINS (adventurous chap old TOMPKINS) SNOOKS, JONES, SMITH
and BROWN. Thought latter had gone to Canada! Open eyes with a start. Waiter and bill. Bless
me, how late it is. Must be off at once to welcome STANLEY. Meet old TOMPKINS, SNOOKS, JONES
and SMITH instead. They tell me that they have all welcomed STANLEY. Found him being "run into"
the train by two policemen! Thought him looking very well. Didn't I? Ask, where is he now?
Don't I know? Why gone back by the special! Thought I must have missed it on purpose. Hurry
away in bad temper. May catch him up. Pop into fast train just starting. Scenery bad. Weather
horrid. Fellow travellers unsupportable. Ah, here we are at last at Victoria. One satisfaction--BROWN
didn't welcome him either. Why here is BROWN on the platform--do him a last good turn--describe
STANLEY. I tell him that the great explorer looks younger than ever, wears big cap, white suit,
revolver and field-glasses. Every inch a portrait in the Daily Graphic! BROWN says, "That's
strange, as he didn't look like that when he saw him!" Appears BROWN put off trip to Canada
to welcome him. Can't be helped! Shall meet STANLEY somewhere (movements advertised daily in
the Times) and when I do won't I give him a bit of my mind, for not waiting long enough to
let me welcome him! HARTINGTON back from the Riviera. First time he has appeared this Session;
lounged in with pretty air of having been there yesterday and just looked in again. Blushed
with surprise to find Members on both sides welcoming him with cheer.

"We all like HARTINGTON," said SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE. "Of course we liked him better when
he agreed with our opinions; but we can't all keep straight, and he's gone wrong. Still, we
bear him no malice. Sorry he was ill; glad he's better. Must encourage this benevolent attitude
towards him, since it enables us, with fuller vigour to denounce CHAMBERLAIN. You see, when
we howl at CHAMBERLAIN, they can't say we are simply moved by personal spite, because here
we are cheering HARTINGTON as he returns to the fray."

JOHN DILLON back too; bronzed with Australian suns; ruddy with the breezes of lusty Colorado.
Everyone glad to see JOHN back; first because everyone likes him; next for reasons akin to
those which the SAGE frankly acknowledges when cheering HARTINGTON. Even in the evil days when
JOHN DILLON used to fold his arms and flash dark glances of defiance on Speaker BRAND, House
didn't include him in same angry, uncompromising, denunciation as hurtled round head of WILLIAM
O'BRIEN, TIM HEALY, and dear old JOSEPH GILLIS. JOHN DILLON sometimes suspended; occasionally
sent to prison; but the honesty of his motives, the purity of his patriotism, always acknowledged.
Mistaken, led astray (that is to say differed from us on matters of opinion), but meant well.

"Yes, TOBY," said the SAGE, lighting another cigarette; "always well when you're going it hot
for a Party to have some individual in it whom you can omit from general implication of infamous
motives. Gives one high moral standpoint, doncha know. Thus, when I want to suggest that THE
MARKISS is a mere tool in hands of BISMARCK, I extol honest purposes of OLD MORALITY; hint,
you know, that he is not so sharp of perception as he might be; but that gives him the fuller
claim upon our sympathy, seeing that he is yoked with a colleague of the natural depravity,
and capable of the infinite iniquity, which marks the MARKISS'S relations with public affairs.
The great thing, dear TOBY, in public controversy is to assume an attitude of impartiality.
When you have to suggest that a political adversary was privy to the putting-away of his grandmother,
do it rather in sorrow than in anger, and if you can find or make an opportunity of saying
at the same time a kind word for one of his colleagues, seize it. That's why we cheer HARTINGTON
to-night, and why the Tories sometimes admit that JOHN DILLON'S an honest man."

Business done.--Parnell moved rejection of Land Purchase Bill.

Tuesday.--COURTNEY on in his famous quick-change scene. One minute he is discovered in recesses
of canopied chair as Speaker; the next is seated at table as Chairman of Committees. SPEAKER,
everyone sorry to learn, is ill in bed. So COURTNEY doubles his part. Proceeding watched with
profound interest from Strangers' Gallery. At ten minutes and ten seconds to Seven House in
Committee of Supply. COURTNEY in Chair at table; Mace off the table; TANNER on his legs. As
hand of clock falters over the numeral ten, COURTNEY gets up, says never a word, wheels to
right out of Chair and marches to rear. TANNER stops midway in sentence and resumes seat. Sergeant-at-Arms
bowing thrice advances, lifts Mace on to table, and retires. Stranger in Gallery wondering
what has become of COURTNEY, appalled by discovering him in SPEAKER'S Chair, quite a new man.
On these occasions marks his swiftly varying condition by altered tone of voice. As Chairman
of Committees, assumes piping treble voice, as Deputy-Chairman drops occasional observations
in profound bass.

"Only thing left to me, dear TOBY," he said, when I congratulated him on his treble. "Haven't
time to change dress, even if it were permissible; must do something to mark wide gulf fixed
between Chairman of Committee and SPEAKER; so hit upon this scheme. Glad you like the treble;
a little out of my line, but practice makes perfect."

At Evening Sitting question of Labour and Capital brought on by BARTLEY. CUNNINGHAME-GRAHAM
let House see what a terrible fellow he is. Doesn't look the part; but after speech to-night
no question of his innate ferocity. Sim Tappertit not in it for such blood-curdling remarks.
"I have," he said just now, "often interfered between Capital and Labour; but, thank Heaven!
I have never interfered in the character of a conciliator."

"Ha, ha!" he cried, a little later, à propos of nothing. "You talk of inciting to violence.
I have never incited to violence, and wherefore? Because, in present state of affairs, with
society a vast organised conspiracy, violence would recoil on the heads of the Working Classes.
But, Sir, the time will come when things will be otherwise, and the very moment that power
is in the hands of the Working Classes I shall incite them to violence."

After this House took early opportunity of adjourning. Pretty to see Members stealing across
Palace Yard in the dark, looking furtively right and left, not sure that moment was not come,
and SIMON CUNNINGHAME TAPPERTIT GRAHAM was not hounding on his "United Bulldogs" against the
Classes. "We must look out, BROADHURST," said JAMES ROWLANDS, nervously rubbing his hand. "It's
all very well of your retiring to Cromer. I think I shall practise with a revolver; shall certainly
carry a sword-stick."

Business done.--Budget Resolutions through Committee.

Thursday Night.--HOME SECRETARY came down to-day in unusually good spirits. Nothing happened
of late to give enemy occasion to blaspheme. Crewe affair seems quite forgotten; nobody going
to be hanged when he ought to be reprieved, or reprieved when he ought to be hanged. Seems
almost as if, after all, life for HOME SECRETARY would be worth living. Whatever embarrassments
ahead belong to other Departments of Ministry. Land Purchase troubles, not the HOME SECRETARY,
nor Bi-Metallism either. RAIKES been doing something at the Post Office. GOSCHEN been tampering
with tea, and sinning in the matter of currants. Something wrong with the Newfoundland Fisheries,
but that FERGUSSON'S look-out. True, ELCHO wanting to know about some prisoners taken from
Ipswich to Bury in chains. Sounds bad sort of thing; sure to be letters in newspapers about
it. But HOME SECRETARY able to lay hand on heart and swear the chains were light. ELCHO blustered
a bit. Irish Members, naturally interested in arrangements for going to prison, threateningly
cheered; but after what MATTHEWS had suffered in other times this affair lighter than the chains
themselves.

Incident had passed; questions on paper disposed of; soon be debating Land Purchase Bill; all
would be well for at least another day. Suddenly up gets HARCOURT; wants to know who is responsible
for the design of new police buildings on Thames Embankment? Flush of pride mantles brow of
MATTHEWS. This red-hot building--its gables, its roofs, its windows, its doorways, and its
twisted knockers--was designed under his direction. It is his dower to London, set forth on
one of its most spacious sites. What does HARCOURT want to know about it? Why is PLUNKET so
studious in repudiating all responsibility for the thing? Wherefore does crowded House cheer
and laugh when HARCOURT gives notice to call attention to building on Home Office Vote? Can
it be possible that here is another mistake? Ought he to have hanged the architect instead
of encouraging him? Always doing things for the best, and they turn out the very worst. Been
occasionally misunderstood; but did, at least, think that London would be grateful for this
emanation from the heated architectural mind.

"Looks so like a carbuncle suddenly developed on Embankment, with the stately Thames swirling
below, that I really thought they would like it," said HOME SECRETARY, mopping his furrowed
brow. "But there are some people, TOBY, who are never pleased, and prominent among them are
the people of London."

Business done.--Debate on Land Purchase Bill.

Friday.--Things rather in a muddle to-day all round. At Morning Sitting didn't get Supply which
everybody expected would be order of day; didn't proceed with Allotments Bill, which was first
on Orders. At night, PROVAND on first with Dried Currants; MCLAREN to follow with Woman's Suffrage,
neither turned up, and at half-past eleven by dint of Closure, got into Committee of Supply.
GEORGE CAMPBELL cruising up and down in New Guinea steamer; finally docked. Then ARTHUR WILLIAMS
moved to report progress; more discussion; OLD MORALITY pounced; Division on Closure; COURTNEY
named SHEEHY as one of tellers; SHEEHY in Limerick; House couldn't wait for him to return;
so WADDY brought out of Lobby to tell with TANNER. When Closure carried, it was ten minutes
past one. House bound to rise at one o'clock; Chairman equally bound to put the question, which
was to report progress. Motion for progress negatived, which meant that the House would go
on with business; but it being a quarter past one Deputy-Speaker must needs leave Chair, and
so sitting collapsed.

"Dear me!" said BOLTON, "this is hard to understand. Must go off to the Garrick and think it over."

Business done.--None.