Frontispiece: "His eyes were greedily fixed on the book; then he would write a little, then
look again, then write again.  He was cribbing."--WILTON SCHOOL, page 33.]

WILTON SCHOOL:

OR,

HARRY CAMPBELL'S REVENGE.

A Tale.

BY

FRED. E. WEATHERLY, B.A.,

AUTHOR OF "MURIEL, AND OTHER POEMS."

EDINBURGH:

W. P. NIMMO, HAY, & MITCHELL

1872

TO

My Little Brothers,

ALFRED, ARTHUR, HERBERT,

LEWIS, AND CECIL,

I DEDICATE

THIS TALE.

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

     I.--A LONG GOOD-BYE
    II.--WHY THE SAD GOOD-BYE WAS GIVEN
   III.--SAD INFORMATION
    IV.--WILTON SCHOOL
     V.--MOTHER AND SON
    VI.--INJURED INNOCENCE
   VII.--A BOY FIGHT AT SCHOOL
  VIII.--FRIENDS IN MISFORTUNE
    IX.--HARRY PUT ON TRIAL
     X.--SUNLIGHT
    XI.--MOVING HOME
   XII.--BULLYING
  XIII.--FLIGHT
   XIV.--AT SLEEP AT LAST
    XV.--THE BITERS BIT
   XVI.--BLEWCOME'S ROYAL MENAGERIE
  XVII.--THE LOST FOUND
 XVIII.--FATHER AND SON
   XIX.--AT WILTON ONCE MORE
    XX.--AVENGED AT LAST

ILLUSTRATIONS

"His eyes were greedily fixed on the book; then he would
  write a little, then look again, then write again.  He
  was cribbing." . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece

"'Leave him to me,' said Warburton, a tall ungainly boy of
  fourteen, as boy after boy was eager to take the quarrel
  to himself."

"There he was, safe on the ground at last."

"He never uttered a word, but ate his breakfast, and enjoyed
  it thoroughly."

WILTON SCHOOL

CHAPTER I.

A LONG GOOD-BYE.

Gathering shadows--Harry's wonder--Ambiguous--A long good-bye--The anchor's weighed.

It was a sad evening in the little farm by the church of Wilton, yet very sweet and summer-like
without.  Very sad it was in the low, dim, oak-panelled parlour, whose diamonded window looked
across the quiet churchyard, with its swinging wicket, its gravel-path beneath green aisles
of lindens, and all the countless

  "Grassy barrows of the happier dead."

Very sad were those three sitters in the summer twilight, there, at the farm; for a good-bye
had to be said--a long, long farewell between that weeping pale woman, and the stout sailor,
her husband.  And Harry, their blue-eyed, sunny-haired boy, did not understand what it all
meant;--why papa did not cheer mamma with hopes of soon coming home again--why mamma did not
try to console herself by saying, over and over, that he would soon come back, as she always
used in the old days when papa had to go to sea.  She had never cried so bitterly before, although
these good-byes had come so often.  And now it made her cough; she seemed scarcely to have
strength to cry.  And papa, who was always so brave and stern, why was it even he could not
stop the tears from rolling down his bronzed cheeks?  And so Harry sat in the window-seat,
quite unable to understand the meaning of all the sorrow, and looked out of the window at the
farmer's wife nursing her last baby in the orchard, and then at the old sexton in the churchyard
throwing up the red earth, and wondered why he always whistled such a jovial tune, while he
himself felt so sad.

And the evening drew on over the straggling village, weary with its long day's work.  The last
loaded waggon had passed down the lane by the farm; the last troop of tired hay-makers had
trudged gaily homewards; and with the deepening dusk the winds grew cooler, blowing in fresh,
along the valley, from the sea.

And, all this while, poor Harry sat with his face pressed closely against the window-pane;
and his papa and mamma, apparently unheeding him, sat talking in the far dim corner of the
room, while ever anon her great sobs broke the train of comforting words her husband strove
to utter.

Presently, he got up, moved to the window, and without saying a word, took Harry's hand and
led him across the room to his mother's side. Then his faltering lips said:

"Harry, my boy, mamma is going away soon--before I come back;--I shall not see her again."

"Not see her again, papa?" cried Harry in amazement.  "And why is mamma going away, with her
cough so bad, too?"

"Mamma's cough won't trouble her long, my boy.  You'll take care of her for me, won't you,
Harry? and see her safe off on her journey?"

He spoke very quietly now; but if he had not used those ambiguous sentences, he would have
broken down, he knew.

And then the good-bye was said.  He kissed Harry tenderly, and then gathered his weeping wife
to his breast.  And with an earnest "God guard you!" that well-nigh seemed to break the bursting
heart from whence the words arose, he moved quickly from the room.  So it was all over now!
The long good-bye had been said.

"Take care of her and the boy, Mrs Valentine," he said to the farmer's wife, as she came hurrying
up from the orchard to see him before he left, "and God will reward you.  It will not be for
long, I fancy.  The boy must stay with you till I come back."

"I will, I will sir; bless her dear heart!" the farmer's wife cried, while the tears started
to her eyes.  "Poor soul, poor soul!" she murmured after him, as he passed bravely down the
lane, villagewards.

And there, in the little farm by the church, sat the pale wife weeping over her wondering boy,
while the shadows of the summer night stole ghost-like over the lands, till the window was
but a faint dim square in the sad darkness that was within.

That night the Queen's good ship "Thunderer" weighed anchor from the roadstead where she had
been lying off Wilton, and with canvass stretched, and engines at full speed, swung down the
Bristol channel on the ebb tide, to join the flying squadron on a six months' cruise.  And
though many a heart, of seamen and officer alike, felt heavy at parting from sweetheart or
wife, in none was there the dull, hopeless agony that dwelt behind the stern face of Chief-engineer
Campbell, as he talked on deck with his fellow-officers, or issued his orders to his men below.

CHAPTER II.

WHY THE SAD GOOD-BYE WAS GIVEN.

In commission--At home in Malta--After long years--Settled at Wilton--Unwelcome tidings--Unavailing
skill.

Fourteen years ago, amid the mists of Scotland, there was a bonny wedding at a hill-side kirk;
the bride, a sweet young English girl, who had left her southern home to pay a visit to her
uncle, the old village-pastor; the bridegroom, a stout sailor, home from sea for a short while
at his native village.  And after a six weeks' happy wooing, a happy wedding took the two away,
far from the heathery hills and the mountain lochs; far from the moors and fells of Scotland.

A brief honeymoon of quiet, unmarred happiness, and Alan Campbell received instructions to
join his ship, ordered to Malta for three years.  His wife, of course, could not sail with
him, so he took a berth for her in one of the ordinary passenger steamers that run from Southampton
to the island.  And after seeing her safe on board one rainy April afternoon, her tearful face
itself like April weather, he took the evening mail-train to Plymouth, and the following morning
was on board his ship.  It was not long before his impatience was gratified, and the "Thunderer"
steamed out into the English Channel.

Thus over the great waves, through time of sun and stars, through storm and shine, sailed the
two parted many miles of heaving sea; Minnie, pale and trembling in her little cabin, with
the noise of the waters ever sounding in her sleepless ears; Alan pacing to and fro in the
heat and throbbing of the engines of the "Thunderer."

It was a joyful meeting at the island-fortress in the blue Mediterranean.  Alan obtained leave
to sleep on shore, and took a little white cottage that overlooked the bay, where the good
ship "Thunderer" lay at anchor; and there, at her outhanging window, every evening Minnie would
sit, looking so anxiously across the bay towards the great black hull of the vessel, till a
gig would put off that brought Alan home to her.

So the days and weeks went on.  The spring died into the summer's flowery lap; the summer ripened
and mellowed unto the golden autumn; and when the year's late last months were come, there
was another inmate in the little cottage by the bay; another pair of eyes, blue as the mother's,
to greet Alan as he came home at night; another pair of hands to hold and call his own.

The time ran as quickly as it ran happily.  The three years passed, and again Alan had to put
his wife on board a passenger steamer bound for England--this time with her boy Harry to bear
her company, a sturdy young gentleman of somewhat over two years; while he himself sailed for
Plymouth in the "Thunderer."  And so it came to pass, that after many such changes of abode,
and many voyages over the dangerous waters, twelve years from the date of their marriage, they
came to Wilton. They found lodgings at Mrs Valentine's farm, near the old church--a strange
contrast after the home on the blue waters of the Mediterranean, but a very nice contrast withal.
And it seemed, at last, as if poor Mrs Campbell had found a climate that suited her, and that
put new life and strength into her failing, fragile form.  For those happy and treacherous
nights, spent in looking over the bay at Malta for her husband's home-coming, had sown the
seeds of a consumption, that each month now seemed to be increasing its wasting, rapid strides.

Yet at Wilton she seemed revived and better than she had been for long; and Alan grew more
cheerful and hopeful that, if God pleased, her life, with care and watching, might be spared.
So he took rooms at the farm for a length of time; sent his boy, now grown into a young image
of his stout father, to a grammar-school in the village, and determined that, as the place
agreed with her so well, Minnie should make it her home, even when he went to sea.

And once more their happiness lost the cloud of doubt and anxiety that for long had been hanging
over it.  But the dream was soon to be snapt.

One evening Alan came home to find his wife much worse than she had ever been.  He learnt the
cause.  She had been sitting with a sick person, and from the hot, sickroom had passed out
into the damp evening air.  And this was the result.

The village-doctor was sent for at once; and when, on the next morning, Alan anxiously, tremblingly,
asked him the candid truth, it was with an open letter in his hand, with which his fingers
nervously played.  It was marked "On Her Majesty's Service."  He must hold himself in readiness
to sail within a fortnight.  And the doctor's answer was a fearful crowning to this unexpected
tidings.

"She may linger on for a month," he said, "six weeks at most.  You will have to bid her good-bye
for ever when you go.  No skill can make her live till you come home."

Alan never uttered a word, but his face was very pale, and a great shudder passed over his frame.

"It is very, very sad for you," said the little doctor, "I pity you from my heart."  And then
he jolted away down the lane in his shaky trap, drawn by his broken-winded pony.

And Alan turned into the farm, and was soon by his wife's side.

So the fortnight passed, and the good-bye was said; and this is why that good-bye was so unutterably
sad; and this is all that Harry could not understand.

CHAPTER III.

SAD INFORMATION.

Mother and son--Returning fortitude--Self-devoted.

It was drawing close upon the half-yearly examination at the Grammar School, and Harry was
beginning to grow very frightened and nervous, for a new boy had been put into his class since
the last examination, and he feared the newcomer would supplant him, and get to the head.

So, as soon as the sad good-bye, told of in the first chapter of this little tale, was said,
and Harry had tried in vain to comfort his mother, he got his books and set to work.  And the
clock ticked, and Harry pored over his delectus; and in the corner Mrs Campbell sat and wept.

Presently she called Harry to her.

"Harry, dear, I am better now; I won't cry any more.  Come and sit by me."

And so Harry went.  And then she talked quietly to him about his work at school, and how she
hoped that one day he would be able to go to Oxford.  It was well for her, poor thing, she
had these little makeshifts for conversation.  That which lay nearest her heart, was now too
much well-nigh for words to express.

"You are young now, dear boy, but still old enough to know that your after-life depends on
yourself; and if you work steadily on, you can win a scholarship."

"What is a scholarship, mamma?"

"A sum of money, dear, which is allowed you every year while you are at Oxford, to help to
pay your expenses.  Because, you know, papa couldn't afford to pay all the money it would cost
while you were there."

"And why couldn't you pay it, mamma?"

"I shall not be here then, dear boy," said Mrs Campbell, very softly.

"But you will be wherever I am, mamma."

"I shall be sleeping in the churchyard, darling boy; over yonder, under the tall, grey tower."

Harry burst out impetuously:

"No, you shan't die, mamma!  Why should you die?  I won't let you go!"

And Harry sobbed as though his heart would break.  For his sake, Mrs Campbell seemed to win
strength and quietness.  And taking him gently by the hand she led him upstairs to bed, sat
by him till he was heavily asleep, his face all stained with tears, and then went wearily downstairs
again, took her writing desk, and began a letter to her husband.

CHAPTER IV.

WILTON SCHOOL.

The examination--Wilton school--Harry's class-room--Absorbed--Prized possessions--Too busy--Cribbing--Misplaced
sympathy--Harry blushes.

The morning sun shone brightly over Wilton as Harry started to school; brightly over the dancing
waters of the roadstead; and the seawind sang gaily through the wave-washed piles of the pier.
The school-bell was ringing lustily as Harry passed through the iron gates into the playground.
Everything was in bustle and confusion.  Bats and balls were laid aside; jackets thrust on
hastily; rough heads smoothed by hot hands.  From their different house-doors the masters were
emerging, putting on, as they came, gowns, some brand-new, some rusty and worn. The whole stream
was setting in one and the same direction, towards the doors of the school-buildings.  And
by the time the bell's last clang had ceased, masters and boys were duly assembled in their
respective places in the big school-room.  Prayers over, Dr Palmer announced, amid breathless
silence, the regulations respecting the examination, which was unexpectedly to begin, in part,
that morning.  Who does not remember those anxious, nervous days, before the examination; the
anticipation worse, if possible, than the actual realisation; the visions of questions unanswered,
translations sent up full of mistakes, sums that never would come out right, problems that
never would be proved?

For the first few days questions, to be answered on paper, would be set to the whole school
according to their respective work and classes.  On the fifth day the examiner would arrive;
he would commence at the bottom of the school, and, taking two classes each day, examine them
vivâ voce.

This was the substance of Dr Palmer's speech; and then the business of the morning began.

The different classes and their masters filed away into their particular rooms, Dr Palmer and
the senior form being left alone in the big school-room.

The greater portion of the school-buildings, it should be stated, had been converted some years
ago from the remains of an old monastery. Standing on a slight eminence, and backed by a deep
belt of firs, broad meadows sloped from it, straight down to a grey shingly beach, where the
boys used to bathe.  Three sides only had left their ruins behind; and these were accordingly
rebuilt, as closely after the original style as was possible.  There was the shadowy row of
cool cloisters, edging the square smooth-shaven plot of grass, which no boy was allowed to
cross.  Then all round the building above the cloisters were various class-rooms; and at the
end of one wing stood the chapel, and at the other, the big school-room.

Harry's class-room was in one corner, and consequently was darker than most of the others;
but this the boys liked in the summer; it was such a contrast after the glaring sun that streamed
in through the windows of the big school-room.  And Harry's place, too, in the room, he specially
liked; close to the window, he could look out, through its ivied frame, across the smooth green
lawn, away down the meadows to the distant sea.  And who can wonder that the sight of the heaving
billows brought thoughts of his father to him many a time and oft?  But many a time, too, those
dreams were snapt by the voice of Mr Prichard, his master--

"Campbell, attend to your work;" or, "Campbell, don't look out of the window;" or, when in
a facetious mood, "Campbell, you cannot learn your delectus by the light of nature."

But this morning, Harry was far too occupied to stare about.  Not that he was thinking specially
of what his mother had told him the night before, that she would soon be gone away from him;
childlike, he had almost forgotten that, or at any rate the examination, for the time being,
absorbed his whole attention.  And like us all, he could not realise the sorrow his mother's
words conveyed.  Who of us, indeed, does not feel, even when standing over the grave of some
dear one dead, even when decking the green mound with flowers--feel it is well-nigh impossible
fully to realise that those hands, now laid white beneath the mould, will never again be clasped
in ours on earth.  So it is no wonder that Harry was in his usual good spirits; with this only
difference, that the examination into whose depths he had now plunged, was filling him with
nervous excitement and terrified interest.

Each boy had a desk and stool to himself, and to the little boys the desk-key was a proud possession.
The sixteen desks were ranged in even rows, Mr Prichard's being at the opposite end, it so
happened, to Harry's place.  By Harry sat Egerton the new boy, the dreaded rival; and as they
bent, side by side, over their desks, their pens and inky fingers scrambling as hard as possible
over their papers, many eyes were turned upon them, to see which appeared to be getting on best.

Harry himself was too busy to take any notice of Egerton; and the morning was half-gone, and
he had scarcely looked from his desk.  But a sudden impulse or wish to rest awhile, made him
pause and lay down his pen.  And this is what met his eyes.  Mr Prichard was standing with
his back to the boys, writing some directions on the class notice-board, not hurrying himself,
and quite lost in what he was doing.  He was an absent man, was Mr Prichard.  All the boys
were busy writing, or scratching their heads (a process commonly supposed to assist meditation),
save one, and that was Egerton.  But he was not idle.  He was busy, a great deal too much so.

In his lap lay an open book.  His desk, of course, concealed this from Mr Prichard, and from
the rest of the room, except Harry; who, as he sat in the same row with him, alone could see;
for Egerton's jacket, carefully pulled forward, screened his proceedings from the boy on his
other side.  His eyes were greedily fixed on the book; then he would write a little, then look
again, then write again.  He was cribbing.

Harry was so thunderstruck that he stared open-mouthed at him.  Just then he heard Mr Prichard's
voice, sterner than usual: "Campbell, what are you looking at, sir?"  Poor Harry's heart sank
within him.  He could not, would not, tell; that would be sneaking.  And yet he knew from the
way in which Mr Prichard spoke that he suspected him of looking over Egerton's paper.  The
fact was, Mr Prichard had turned round suddenly, and catching Harry's eyes strained eagerly
in the direction of Egerton's desk, had naturally imagined that he, and not Egerton, was taking
an unfair advantage.  Those few words of his sowed a crop of prejudice among the boys against
Harry.  "Campbell's been caught cribbing off Egerton," was what rose to the mind and lips of
all; and a sort of sympathy grew up in favour of the true culprit, because it appeared that
he had been the sufferer.

Naturally enough, there was a slight commotion in the room, and this gave Egerton ample opportunity
to hide his book by sitting on it, or--but we must not anticipate.

Soon after, Harry finished his paper, folded it, and walked to Mr Prichard's desk; in his hurry,
leaving his own open at the time.  As he handed in his work he said, stammering: "I wasn't
looking at Egerton's paper, sir; indeed I wasn't," and then blushed crimson.  Mr Prichard said
nothing, but looked very hard at him, and this made Harry blush the more.  Then he went back
to his desk (which he never noticed was now closed), locked it, and sat quietly till the class
was dismissed; and shortly after was running home to his mother.

CHAPTER V.

MOTHER AND SON.

Very miserable--Past hope--Mother and son--Breaking down--Resignation--"It is well."

The doctor's carriage with the broken-winded pony was standing at the door of the farm.  Mrs
Valentine had just come out, and was talking to the doctor's little boy, who sat holding the reins.

"Hallo, Harry," he cried, "home from school?"

"Hush, Master Bromley, don't make such a noise!" interposed Mrs Valentine.

Without taking any notice of Master Bromley, Harry exclaimed nervously to Mrs Valentine--

"Is mamma worse, Mrs Valentine?"

"Yes, dear," the good farmer's wife answered; "you mustn't go in now. She's very bad, indeed.
Mr Bromley is with her."

So Harry ran into the orchard, and sitting down under a tree, felt very miserable.  His mamma
was worse--was she really dying now?  The terrible examination--he remembered her words about
his work, and going to Oxford.  What was he to do?  Was he to get leave from school, and give
up the chance of getting the prize, and stay at home with mamma instead?  But wouldn't that
vex her, and perhaps make her worse? Besides, what use could he be at home?  Ah! but if she
were to die when he was away?  No, no; he could not go away and leave her.  He must stay with
her now!  The examination was nothing!

Such were the thoughts that coursed through Harry's brain; for though only thirteen years old,
he was, in point of mind, far beyond his years, not in his school work, but in his ideas and
feelings on general subjects of every-day life; and the reason of this was his having had,
for so long, his mother as his only companion.

Presently Mrs Valentine came out to him.  Her eyes were very red, for she had been crying.

"You can come in now, Master Harry."

"Mrs Valentine, is mamma dying?  What can I do?  She mustn't die. Can't Mr Bromley do anything
for her?" cried Harry.

"No, dear boy.  Mr Bromley can't do anything for her, poor dear; nor any one else either, for
the matter of that.  He can only make her easier for the time, like."

"But will mamma die before papa comes home?"

"She may die very--very soon," sobbed Mrs Valentine.

By this time they were at the door, and Mrs Valentine left Harry to run quietly upstairs to
his mother's room.  He found her in bed, looking fearfully white, saving two red hectic spots
glowing in her wasted cheeks.  Her hands were dry and hot; and when she began to speak, a fit
of coughing made utterance impossible.  Harry sat by the bedside, and burst out crying.  After
a few minutes, Mrs Campbell said in a low voice, but so cheerfully--

"Well, Harry dear, how did the examination go off?"

"It's not over, mamma; and, please, don't talk about that.  Are you really going to die, mamma?
Tell me, is it really true?"

"Yes, darling boy, I am really going away from you now, and soon, too--very soon."

"What shall I do when you are gone, mamma?  How shall I----" and here Harry fairly broke down;
he could speak no more.

"Don't cry, Harry; it makes me so sad.  Don't you know I am going to heaven, and there will
be no pain there.  I shall not cough any more. You mustn't cry so.  Tell me about school; I
like to hear it all.  I am not going to die to-day, darling boy.  We shall have a little longer
together.  Tell me about the examination."

How Harry longed to pour his story out to her, of Egerton and Mr Prichard.  But he wouldn't
do so now.  He would bear it by himself.  He had run home so quickly, meaning to tell her all,
and knowing she would believe and pity him, and tell him what to do.  But how could he distress
her now?  So he only answered very quietly--

"I did the paper pretty well, mamma; I think; the examiner doesn't come for two or three days;
but--but--you won't be here--then," and back came the memory of the fateful message, back came
the fears at the thought that he would be alone in the world then.

"How hot the room is," sighed Mrs Campbell.  "It makes me feel so weak."

"Ah! the air isn't like it was at Malta; is it, mamma?  You told me it was so cool and sweet
there; didn't you, mamma?"

"Yes, dear boy; but those cool winds have made me like this.  It was sitting out, in the evenings
there, that first gave me my cough.  But it was God's will," she said half to herself, "and
why should one look to second causes?"

"Go and have your dinner, Harry dear or you will be late for school," she said to him.

"Must I go to school, mamma, and leave you?"

"Yes, dear," she answered, "it is far better for you to go, as usual. They shall send for you
if--if--  Go down now, dear," she added, falteringly.

And when Harry hesitatingly left the room, Mrs Campbell turned her face to the wall, and prayed
to God, to guard the motherless child; to guard the toilers on the sea; and then she thought
of her girlhood, of her bright, strong, healthy days; and then of her marriage in the ominous
Scotch mists, of the sojourning at Malta, of the journeyings to and fro; and chiefly of her
husband's love, and of her happy life; and from the depths of her heart she thanked God for
it all, and confessed that it had indeed "been well."

CHAPTER VI.

INJURED INNOCENCE.

A surprise--Public opinion--Questioned--Circumstantial evidence--Inexorable.

With a heavy heart Harry set out for school; but it was a walk of a mile, and his spirits were
very elastic; so that by the time he had settled to his afternoon's work, all his old interest
and excitement in the examination had returned.  Again the class sat writing in their corner-classroom,
with busy fingers and hushed voices.

At half-past four Mr Prichard rose, contrary to his ordinary custom, to collect the papers.
Harry had just opened his desk hastily for some blotting paper, and as he took the piece from
its wonted corner, what was his astonishment to see Egerton's crib lying there.  As he was
making assurance doubly sure, that it really was the delectus-crib, he felt a hand on his shoulder,
and starting suddenly, found Mr Prichard standing, looking over him into his desk.

"Give me your paper, Campbell," said Mr Prichard; "and that book!" he added, sternly.

Harry's heart seemed to rise into his mouth.  He was too frightened to utter a word, but gave
up the book immediately with his paper.  The whole affair had so astonished him that he scarcely
knew whether he stood on his head or his heels.

"Stay after school-prayers, Campbell," said Mr Prichard, as he passed on, collecting the papers
as he went.

Shortly after, the whole class rose, and many were the murmurs, "Sneak! cribber!" that greeted
Harry's burning ears as they all hurried along towards the big schoolroom.

Poor boy! he felt in a sad strait, for he well knew how hard it would be to clear himself.
However, the consciousness of his innocence gave him a brave heart.  His mother had always
told him that, no matter what the consequences were, so long as his conscience told him he
was in the right, it was all well; and that seeming misfortunes would but work to his final good.

Prayers over, Harry took up his position at Mr Prichard's desk.  It so happened no boys were
kept in that evening, so the rest of the masters were soon gone; but somehow or other the room
did not clear so speedily as usual.  Harry's class especially was among the lingerers.  The
report had soon spread through the school.  And the boys (the younger ones chiefly), always
glad of a row when not themselves concerned, stood peeping through the open doors.

"Leave the room at once, all of you," shouted Mr Prichard, "unless you want an imposition?"

Waiting calmly and deliberately till the room was clear, and the doors shut, while Harry longed,
and yet dreaded for him to begin, Mr Prichard turned and said--

"Well, Campbell, what have you to say for yourself?  This morning, I catch you in the act of
copying, or attempting to copy, from Egerton's paper; and, now, this afternoon, I find you
with a book in your possession, which, you know, you have no business whatever to have.  I
suppose this will account for the correctness of your work during the past half-year?  Do you
feel very proud of your performance," he added, sneeringly, "when none of it was your own labour
or cleverness?"

Meek-hearted Harry was in tears long before this oration was concluded; and the streaming face
and crimson blushes only tended to confirm Mr Prichard's conviction of his guilt.

"Please, sir, I wasn't copying off Egerton this morning," sobbed Harry; "I wasn't copying off
him; and it isn't my book.  It's--it's--it isn't mine, sir!"

"It isn't yours, sir?" cried Mr Prichard, indignantly.  "Have you the face to contradict me
flatly, sir, and say the book does not belong to you?  Whose name is that?" he cried, holding
the delectus-translation, open at its fly-leaf, to Harry.

And there plain enough it was--Harry Campbell.

"No, sir, no; it isn't mine," persisted Harry, through his tears.  "It isn't mine.  I never
saw it till this morning."

"You are only adding to your wrong conduct, Campbell," said Mr Prichard very gravely.  "It
is bad enough for you to take unfair advantage of your school-fellows; but you make the whole
matter ten times worse by telling a deliberate falsehood.  The book is yours.  Your name is in it."

In vain Harry protested his innocence; Mr Prichard remained inexorable.

"You will come with me to Dr Palmer to-morrow," and putting the book into his pocket, he stalked
from the room.

CHAPTER VII.

A BOY FIGHT AT SCHOOL.

Lynch law--At bay--Bully Warburton--Single combat--The deciding round--Harry is victorious.

If Harry felt heavy-hearted when he started for home that afternoon, what must he have felt
now?  Deeper than ever he was plunged in the trouble from which he knew not how to extricate
himself.  His thoughts, however, soon flew to his mother.  He knew that there he would find
comfort, that there, at least, he would be believed.  So carefully wiping away all traces of
his tears, and putting on as brave a face as he could, he strapped his books together, and
ran down the broad stone stairs into the lobby.

For some time, however, he could not find his cap.  It did not need much reflection to tell
him what this meant or foreboded.  It was the beginning of persecution.  But after rumaging
about among the boxes kept in the lobby, his patience was at length rewarded.  There, in a
corner, was the missing cap; but torn and dirty and much injured. Nothing daunted, he cleaned
it as well as he could, and, putting it on, emerged into the play-ground.

Just as he was fairly in the open, walking quickly towards the gates, and not looking about
him, he heard a burst of voices that bore no pleasant meaning; and then a body of tennis-balls
flew all round him--some hitting him smartly, some whizzing within an ace of him.

As soon as he had recovered from the first shock of his astonishment, stung and bruised, he
looked to see who were his assailants, and there he saw about twenty boys, mostly of his own
age and size, in fact, belonging to his form; though several of the crowd stood out from the
rest, as older and bigger.

Harry's weakness was now turned to indignation.

"You beastly cowards!" he cried, "what have I done to you?"

"Thought to get the prize by cribbing, did you, you sneak?"

"I did not crib," shouted Harry, who had not stirred from where he was first hit by the balls.

"You little liar, you did.  Give it him again," cried one of the bigger boys; and then another
shower of balls fell thick about him.

"I'm not a liar.  It's you're the liars, and the cowards too," he cried, coming nearer the
crowd; and then the boys, too, crowded nearer to him.

"Do you mean to call me a liar?  Do you mean to call me a coward?" cried one after the other--the
bigger boys now being louder and more threatening in their tones.

"Yes, I do," answered Harry, "if you say I cribbed, when I didn't.  And you are cowards to
all set on one."  "I'll teach him.  Now, you young brute," he cried, advancing to Harry.  "Do
you mean to call me a liar and a coward?"

"Yes, I do," persisted Harry, as Warburton came nearer, and shook his fist in his face.  "It
wasn't my crib; and you'd better not hit me!"

"Better not hit you," jeered Warburton; while the group echoed, "Better not hit him, indeed!
Give him a good licking for his cheek, Warburton; I would if I were you!"

Warburton's jeer was very forced, but the voices of the rest gave him courage.  So he rushed
at Harry.  The latter, however, seeing what to expect, threw away his books, and then flew
at Warburton, who, from sheer astonishment at having actually to fight when he thought to administer
an easy licking, began the combat at rather a disadvantage. Both hit very wildly at first,
and not much damage was done.  Of the two, Warburton was most out of breath, for he had been
hitting furiously at Harry, who, not being strong enough to ward off the blows with his arms,
had been forced to dodge and duck his head.

Presently they got into a corner close to the lobby-door, and Harry was beginning to flag.
Not a word all this time had been uttered by the on-lookers.  They would not back Harry; and
to cheer on Warburton would be ridiculous.  "Of course he would lick him all to pieces in a
minute," they said.

But the minute had been a good long one, and all in their hearts were somewhat surprised. 
Just then Egerton came up; and Harry could scarcely believe his ears, when one voice alone
came out of the crowd, cheering him on, and saying, "Go it, Campbell!  Well fought!  I'll back
you, after all."  And the voice was Egerton's.

At that moment Warburton was making a furious charge at him, when Harry stepped sharply aside,
and gathering all his remaining force into one blow, hit his foe on the jaw: at the same instant
Warburton slipped, and the blow and the false step terminated the fight, for he fell violently
through the open lobby-door upon the stone floor.

"Well fought, Campbell! well fought!" cried Egerton.

No one else uttered a word.

