PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

FEBRUARY 12, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

"Officers," says a recent A.C.I., "may use their public chargers for general purposes." Army
circles regard this as a body blow at the taxi-sharks.

       ***

"I had a thrill the other night," writes a correspondent of The Daily Mail. "I encountered
a badger on Hampstead Heath." We hesitate to think what he would have encountered if he had
had two or three thrills.

       ***

The United States Immigration Bill now before Congress provides that "an alien resident may
be joined by his grandfather if over fifty-five years of age." A proposal to extend the privilege
to great-grandfathers who have turned their sixtieth year appears to have met with no success.

       ***

"It is highly probable," says the chief medical officer of the Local Government Board, "that
masks and goggles will be necessary to ensure freedom from infection from influenza." People
who refuse to adopt this simple preventative should be compelled by law to breathe exclusively
through their ears.

       ***

The sensational report that the new Director-General of Housing has already found a house turns
out to be unfounded. It is no secret, however, that the Department is on the track of several.

       ***

"There is a Members' cloak-room," says a contemporary in "Hints to M.P.'s," "where an attendant
will take your coat and hat." So different from those other political clubs where another member
usually takes them.

       ***

SHAKSPEARE on Glasgow: "For this relief much tanks.".

       ***

The salute, says a correspondent, is being reintroduced into the German Army. Kicking an officer
on the parade-ground for other than political reasons is also forbidden.

       ***

The Consumers' Council urge, inter alia, "that the Food Ministry ought to be retained so long
as there is any need of food control." This view is regarded as entirely too narrow by officials
of the Ministry, who feel that the public is just beginning to love them for themselves alone.

       ***

A sale of ninety specially-selected mules is announced to take place at Tattersall's to-morrow.
In the technical language of the live-stock trade a "specially-selected" mule is one which
has a clear reach of six feet at either end.

       ***

"The Government must say what it will do," states The Daily Mail. Waiting for The Daily Mail
to say it first must not be allowed to degenerate into a mere mechanical habit.

       ***

For impersonating a voter a carpenter of Gloucester has just been sentenced to a month's imprisonment.
Where he succeeded in obtaining the disguise from is not known.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LOVE TRAGEDY.

He was a smart new clinical thermometer. She was a pretty nurse in an influenza ward. His figurings
were clear and his quicksilver glittered. Her eyes were blue and a little curl peeped from
under her cap. He fell madly in love with her; and when her dainty fingers toyed with him his
little heart swelled to bursting and he registered all he could.

So when she took her morning temperatures her patients were desperately high, and when the
other nurse took them in the evening they were three degrees lower; and the doctors were much
perplexed.

They put the love-struck thermometer in a tumbler of warm water with two others to test him;
and, freed from her influence, he recorded correctly. Learned authorities on medical research
meditated pamphlets, on the new variation of the universal plague.

Then came a morning when the pretty nurse, after too many cigarettes the night before, took
her own temperature. For the adoring thermometer the supreme moment had arrived. In rapturous
ecstasy at the touch of her dear lips he rose to heights of exaltation that left his other
efforts far behind. "Drat the thing," exclaimed the pretty nurse, putting him down nastily,
"I've got it myself now," and went off to bed. He, broken-hearted, rolled off the table and died.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONG MEMORIES.

"I remember," said a veteran of nineteen, "when there was a hansom at the stand at the corner."

"Oh, that's nothing," said a venerable spinster of twenty-one. "I've been, to dances with a
female chaperon where there was no smoking on the stairs, and some people danced a thing they
called a 'tango.'"

"When I was working on the land," resumed the first speaker, "I had a day off and went to lunch
with people close by. The man who sat next me was a judge and asked me what an 'old bean' meant."

"Oh, cut it out!" interposed an aged matron who had not hitherto taken any part in the conversation.
"When I was born there was no Daily Mail, when I went to school I was taught to play the piano
with my fingers, and when I married people hadn't begun to 'jazz.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW GAME OF BAWL.

    "An open howling handicap will be held at Talleres, F.C.S., next
    Sunday."

    Standard (Buenos Ayres).

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At a meeting of the newly-formed British and Allied Waiters',
    Chefs' and Employees' Union the president said that one of
    their main objects was to stop enemy aliens from spoiling their
    business. They must do this themselves."--Daily Paper.

And some of them, it must be admitted, have been making considerable efforts in this direction.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDENTULOUS PERSONS.

It happened a long time ago. Higgins, Mackenzie and I, three irresponsible subalterns, had
been lent to the Government of India for famine relief work. One Sunday we foregathered in
the cool of the evening at a dak bungalow, near the point where our three districts met, to
compare notes and to swap lies.

"How are you getting on?" I asked Higgins.

"I'm not getting on at all. I'm just stagnating. I do all my work and draw my pay, and there's
the end of it. I'm sure the regiment has forgotten all about me, and in fact no one seems to
be aware of my existence."

"Why not write to the Government of India about it?" remarked Mackenzie.

"Yes, I'm sure that's the best thing to do," I agreed. "The Collector in my district is always
writing to the Government of India, and the Government prints all he writes and sends it round
with remarks and decisions. He will get all sorts of honours and rewards out of this famine."

"Yes. But what shall I write?" asked Higgins. "If I simply say there is a chap called Higgins
who is terribly bored and wants some notice taken of him, they won't print that sort of tosh."

"Not that particular kind of tosh, perhaps," agreed Mackenzie. "You've got to write about your
work and ask for a decision on some point or other. Then they'll remember your existence; and
if you write often enough you will gradually crawl out of obscurity into the limelight. Almost
anything will do to start with."

"Well, I found an old woman to-day in one of my camps who could not eat her ration, because
she had no teeth. Can you make anything out of that?" asked Higgins.

"We'll have a shot at it anyway," replied Mackenzie. He pulled a sheet of note-paper and a
pencil out of his pocket and wrote the following draft:--"There are in the famine camps in
my area some toothless old people who cannot eat the ordinary ration. What shall I do about it?"

"The gist of the letter is all right," I said, "but the style wants polishing. Higgins's education
will be gauged by our style. Cross out 'some toothless old people' and write 'certain edentulous
persons.' Put 'masticate' instead of 'eat.' Then you must not say, 'What shall I do about it?'
That sounds too helpless. You, or rather Higgins, must appear as a man of unbounded initiative
and resource. You must write, 'I suggest that a special ration of soft food be issued to such
persons.' That will help the Government of India to solve a very difficult problem, and Higgins
will earn its eternal gratitude."

The amendments were passed unanimously. Higgins copied out the letter in his best handwriting
and sent it off through the long and winding channels by which subalterns on famine duty communicate
with the heaven-born ones who sit on the far-off hills.

We separated next day, and I forgot all about the matter until three weeks later, when, going
through my official mail, the name Patrick Aloysius Higgins caught my eye. There was our letter
printed in full, and below it was the epoch-making decision of the Government: "A special ration
of soft food may be issued to edentulous persons in famine camps."

Higgins's success evidently provoked Mackenzie to emulate it. Some time later I received another
printed document. After the usual official opening, with its reference numbers, etc., it ran
as follows: "There are in the famine camps in this area certain persons who, though not edentulous,
are yet unable to masticate the ordinary ration. Though they have some teeth, the teeth are
all in one jaw. May such persons be considered as edentulous for the purposes of the decision
referred to above? Signed, JAMES DOUGLAS MACKENZIE." The Government was again pleased to record
its approval.

The letter roused my jealousy. Higgins and Mackenzie, by the use of my distinguished literary
style, had both got well along the road to fame, whilst I was still languishing in obscurity.
Something must be done about it. I took a pen and wrote: "There are in the famine camps in
this area certain persons who, though they are not edentulous and though they have some teeth
in both jaws, are yet unable to masticate the ordinary ration because the teeth in the upper
jaw correspond with the gaps in the lower, and vice versa. May such persons be considered as
edentulous for the purposes of the two previous decisions?"

I sent the letter off to the Government of India. The reply came by return of post:--

"The Government of India, in response to representations, has authorised the issue of a special
ration of soft food to edentulous persons in famine camps. In the interpretation of the term
'edentulous' considerable latitude may be permitted, and is indeed desirable, so that it may
in practice be applied to many individuals who, according to meticulous physiological standards,
should not be so classified. The determining factor in the application of the term should be
the inability of the individual concerned to extract sufficient nutriment from the normal ration,
owing to imperfect mastication. Such persons will invariably exhibit symptoms of mal-nutrition
or cacotrophy.

"The Government is confident that the foregoing general ruling will enable junior and inexperienced
officers, temporarily employed on famine duty, to classify appropriately and with facility
as denticulate or edentulous all individuals afflicted with dental hiatus, mal-conformation
and labefaction, without further reference to higher authority."

As I read the letter with the help of a dictionary, it dawned upon me that the Government of
India had won the game beyond all doubt and peradventure.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO SAINT VALENTINE.

  Patron of hearts and darts and smarts
    (Which, I suspect, you stole
  From Cupid, when the Pagan arts--
  Which only edified in parts--
    Took on an aureole),

  And patron of the robins, who
    Select your day to mate
  (An act, from any point of view,
  Considering what March can do,
    Rash and precipitate),

  We seek no boon for any friend
    (Or lover, if you like);
  We only ask that you will send,
  If saintly powers so far extend,
    On day without its strike.

