She crossed over to him. He, with an arm that seemed to be suddenly of iron, pulled her on
to his knee. She was rebellious. Her whole body stiffened. She did not want this, she did not
want this! Some voice within cried out: "Take care! Take care!" ... He pressed her close to
him; he kissed her furiously, savagely, her eyes, her mouth, her cheek. She could feel his
heart pounding beneath his clothes like a savage beast. His hands were all about her; he was
crushing her so that she was hurt, but she did not feel that at all; there was something else ...

With all her might she fought down her resistance. This was her duty. She must obey. But something
desolate and utterly, utterly lonely crept away and cried bitterly, watching her surrender.

CHAPTER III

SKEATON-ON-SEA

She was swinging higher, higher, higher--swinging with that delightful rhythm that one knows
best in dreams, lazily, idly, and yet with purpose and resolve. She was swinging far above
the pain, the rebellion, the surrender. That was left for ever; the time of her tears, of her
loneliness was over. Above her, yet distant, was a golden cloud, soft, iridescent, and in the
heart of this lay, she knew, the solution of the mystery; when she reached it the puzzle would
be resolved, and in a wonderful tranquillity she could rest after her journey. Nearer and nearer
she swung; the cloud was a blaze of gold so that she must not look, but could feel its warmth
and heat already irradiating about her. Only to know! ... to connect the two worlds, to find
the bridge, to destroy the gulf!

Then suddenly the rhythm changed. She was descending again; slowly the cloud diminished, a
globe of light, a ball of fire, a dazzling star. The air was cold, her eyes could not penetrate
the dark; with a sigh she awoke.

It was early morning, and a filmy white shadow pervaded the room. For a moment she did not
know where she was; she saw the ghostly shadows of chairs, of the chest of drawers, of a high
cupboard. Then the large picture of "The Crucifixion," very, very dim, reminded her. She knew
where she was; she turned and saw her husband sleeping at her side, huddled, like a child,
his face on his arm, gently breathing, in the deepest sleep. She watched him. There had been
a moment that night when she had hated him, hated him so bitterly that she could have fought
him and even killed him. There had been another moment after that, when she had been so miserable
that her own death seemed the only solution, when she had watched him tumble into sleep and
had herself lain, with burning eyes and her flesh dry and hot, staring into the dark, ashamed,
humiliated. Then the old Maggie had come to her rescue, the old Maggie who bade her make the
best of her conditions whatever they might be, who told her there was humour in everything,
hope always, courage everywhere, and that in her own inviolable soul lay her strength, that
no one could defeat her did she not defeat herself.

Now, most strangely, in that early light, she felt a great tenderness for him, the tenderness
of the mother for the child. She put out her hand, touched his shoulder, stroked it with her
hand, laid her head against it. He, murmuring in his sleep, turned towards her, put his arm
around her and so, in the shadow of his heart, she fell into deep, dreamless slumber.

At breakfast that morning she felt with him a strange shyness and confusion. She had never
been shy with him before. At the very first she had been completely at her ease; that had been
one of his greatest attractions for her. But now she realised that she would be for a whole
fortnight alone with him, that she did not know him in the least, and that he himself was strangely
embarrassed by his own discoveries that he was making.

So they, both of them, took the world that was on every side of them, put it in between them
and left their personal relationship to wait for a better time.

Maggie was childishly excited. She had, for the first time in her life, a house of her own
to order and arrange; by the middle of that first afternoon she had forgotten that Paul existed.

She admitted to herself at once, so that there should be no pretence about the matter, that
the house was hideous. "Yes, it's hideous," she said aloud, standing in the middle of the dining-room
and looking about her. It never could have been very much of a house, but they (meaning Paul
and Grace) had certainly not done their best for it.

Maggie had had no education, she had not perhaps much natural taste, but she knew when things
and people were sympathetic, and this house was as unsympathetic as a house could well be.
To begin with, the wall-papers were awful; in the dining-room there was a dark dead green with
some kind of pink flower; the drawing-room was dressed in a kind of squashed strawberry colour;
the wall-paper of the staircases and passages was of imitation marble, and the three bedrooms
were pink, green, and yellow, perfect horticultural shows.

It was the distinctive quality of all the wall-papers that nothing looked well against them,
and the cheap reproductions in gilt frames, the religious prints, the photographs (groups of
the Rev. Paul at Cambridge, at St. Ermand's Theological College, with the Skeaton Band of Hope)
were all equally forlorn and out of place.

It was evident that everything in the house was arranged and intended to stay for ever where
it was, the chairs against the walls, the ornaments on the mantelpieces, the photograph-frames,
the plush mats, the bright red pots with ferns, the long blue vases, and yet the impression
was not one of discipline and order. Aunt Anne's house had been untidy, but it had had an odd
life and atmosphere of its own. This house was dead, utterly and completely dead. The windows
of the dining-room looked out on to a lawn and round the lawn was a stone wall with broken
glass to protect it. "As though there were anything to steal!" thought Maggie. But then you
cannot expect a garden to look its best at the beginning of April. "I'll wait a little," thought
Maggie. "And then I'll make this house better. I'll destroy almost everything in it."

About mid-day with rather a quaking heart Maggie penetrated the kitchen. Here were gathered
together Alice the cook, Emily the housemaid, and Clara the between maid.

Alice was large, florid, and genial. Nevertheless at once Maggie distrusted her. No servant
had any right to appear so wildly delighted to see a new mistress. Alice had doubtless her
own plans. Emily was prim and conceited, and Clara did not exist. Alice was ready to do everything
that Maggie wanted, and it was very apparent at once that she had not liked "Miss Grace."

"Ah, that'll be much better than the way Miss Grace 'ad it, Mum. In their jackets, Mum, very
well. Certainly. That would be better."

"I think you'd better just give us what seems easiest for dinner, Cook," said Maggie, thereby
handing herself over, delivered and bound.

"Very well, Mum--I'm sure I'll do my best," said Alice.

Early on that first afternoon she was taken to see the Church. For a desperate moment her spirits
failed her as she stood at the end of the Lane and looked. This was a Church of the newest
red brick, and every seat was of the most shining wood. The East End window was flaming purple,
with a crimson Christ ascending and yellow and blue disciples amazed together on the ground.
Paul stood flushed with pride and pleasure, his hand through Maggie's arm.

"That's a Partright window," he said with that inflection that Maggie was already beginning
to think of as "his public voice."

"I'm afraid, Paul dear," said Maggie, "I'm very ignorant."

"Don't know Partright? Oh, he's the great man of the last thirty years--did the great East
window of St. Martin's, Pontefract. We had a job to get him I can tell you. Just look at that
purple."

"On the right you'll see the Memorial Tablet to our brave lads who fell in the South African
War--Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori--very appropriate. Brave fellows, brave fellows!
Just behind you, Maggie, is the Mickleham Font, one of the finest specimens of modern stone-work
in the county--given to us by Sir Joseph Mickleham--Mickleham Hall, you know, only two miles
from here. He used to attend morning service here frequently. Died five years ago. Fine piece
of work!"

Maggie looked at it. It was enormous, a huge battlement of a font in dead white stone with
wreaths of carved ivy creeping about it.

"It makes one feel rather shivery," said Maggie.

"Now you must see our lectern," said Paul eagerly.

And so it continued. There was apparently a great deal to be said about the Lectern, and then
about the Choir-Screen, and then about the Reredos, and then about the Pulpit, and then about
the Vestry, and then about the Collecting-Box for the Poor, and then about the Hassocks, and
finally about the Graveyard ... To all this Maggie listened and hoped that she made the proper
answers, but the truth of the matter was that she was cold and dismayed. The Chapel had been
ugly enough, but behind its ugliness there had been life; now with the Church as with the house
there was no life visible. Paul, putting his hand on her shoulder, said:

"Here, darling, will be the centre of our lives. This is our temple. Round this building all
our happiness will revolve."

"Yes, dear," said Maggie. She was taken then for a little walk. They went down Ivy Road and
into Skeaton High Street. Here were the shops. Mr. Bloods, the bookseller's, Tunstall the butcher,
Toogood the grocer, Father the draper, Minster the picture-dealer, Harcourt the haberdasher,
and so on. Maggie rather liked the High Street; it reminded her of the High Street in Polchester,
although there was no hill. Out of the High Street and on to the Esplanade. You should never
see an Esplanade out of the season, Katherine had once said to Maggie. That dictum seemed certainly
true this time. There could be no doubt that this Esplanade was not looking its best under
the blustering March wind. Here a deserted bandstand, there a railway station, here a dead
haunt for pierrots, there a closed and barred cinema house, here a row of stranded bathing-machines,
there a shuttered tea-house--and not a living soul in sight. In front of them was a long long
stretch of sand, behind them to right and left the huddled tenements of the town, in front
of them, beyond the sand, the grey sea--and again not a living soul in sight. The railway line
wound its way at their side, losing itself in the hills and woods of the horizon.

"There are not many people about, are there?" said Maggie. Nor could she wonder. The East wind
cut along the desolate stretches of silence, and yet how strange a wind! It seemed to have
no effect at all upon the sea, which rolled in sluggishly with snake-like motion, throwing
up on the dim colourless beach a thin fringe of foam, baring its teeth at the world in impotent
discontent.

"Oh! there's a boy!" cried Maggie, amazed at her own relief. "How often do the trains come
in?" she asked.

"Well, we don't have many trains in the off-season," said Paul. "They put on several extra
ones in the summer."

"Oh, what's the sand doing?" Maggie cried.

She had seen sand often enough in her own Glebeshire, but never sand like this. Under the influence
of the wind it was blowing and curving into little spirals of dust; a sudden cloud, with a
kind of personal animosity rose and flung itself across the rails at Maggie and Paul. They
were choking and blinded--and in the distance clouds of sand rose and fell, with gusts and
impulses that seemed personal and alive.

"What funny sand!" said Maggie again. "When it blows in Glebeshire it blows and there's a perfect
storm. There's a storm or there isn't. Here--" She broke off. She could see that Paul hadn't
the least idea of what she was speaking.

"The sand is always blowing about here," he said. "Now what about tea?"

They walked back through the High Street and not a soul was to be seen.

"Does nobody live here?" asked Maggie.

"The population," said Paul quite gravely, "is eight thousand, four hundred and fifty-four."

"Oh, I see," said Maggie.

They had tea in the dusty study again.

"I'm going to change this house," said Maggie.

"Change it?" asked Paul. "What's my little girl going to do?"

"She's going to destroy ever so many things," said Maggie.

"You'd better wait," said Paul, moving a little away, "until Grace comes back, dear. You can
consult with her."

Maggie said nothing.

 Next day Mrs. Constantine, Miss Purves, and Mrs. Maxse came to tea.
They had tea in the drawing-room all amongst the squashed strawberries.
Three large ferns in crimson pots watched them as they ate. Maggie
thought: "Grace seems to have a passion for ferns." She had been
terribly nervous before the ladies' arrival--that old nervousness that
had made her tremble before Aunt Anne at St. Dreot's, before the
Warlocks, before old Martha. But with it came as always her sense of
independence and individuality.

"They can't eat me," she thought. It was obvious at once that they did not want to do anything
of the kind. They were full of kindness and curiosity. Mrs. Constantine took the lead, and
it was plain that she had been doing this all her life. She was a large black and red woman
with clothes that fitted her like a uniform. Her hair was of a raven gleaming blackness, her
cheeks were red, her manner so assured and commanding that she seemed to Maggie at once like
a policeman directing the traffic. The policeman of Christian Skeaton she was, and it did not
take Maggie two minutes to discover that Paul was afraid of her. She had a deep bass voice
and a hearty laugh.

"I can understand her," thought Maggie, "and I believe she'll understand me."

Very different Miss Purves. If Mrs. Constantine was the policeman of Skeaton, Miss Purves was
the town-crier. She rang her bell and announced the news, and also insisted that you should
tell her without delay any item of news that you had collected.

In appearance she was like any old maid whose love of gossip has led her to abandon her appearance.
She had obviously surrendered the idea of attracting the male, and flung on her clothes--an
old black hat, a grey coat and skirt--with a negligence that showed that she cared for worthier
things. She gave the impression that there was no time to be lost were one to gather all the
things in life worth hearing.

If Mrs. Constantine stood for the police and Miss Purves the town-crier, Mrs. Maxse certainly
represented Society. She was dressed beautifully, and she must have been very pretty once.
Her hair was now grey, but her cheeks had still a charming bloom. She was delicate and fragile,
rustling and scented, with a beautiful string of pearls round her neck (this, in the daytime,
Maggie thought very odd), and a large black hat with a sweeping feather. Her voice was a little
sad, a little regretful, as though she knew that her beautiful youth was gone and was making
the best of what she had.

She told Maggie that "she couldn't help" being an idealist.

"I know it's foolish of me," she said in her gentle voice, smiling her charming smile. "They
all tell me so. But if life isn't meant to be beautiful, where are we? Everything must have
a meaning, mustn't it, Mrs. Trenchard, and however often we fail--and after all we are only
human--we must try, try again. I believe in seeing the best in people, because then they live
up to that. People are what we make them, don't you think?"

"The woman's a fool," thought Maggie. Nevertheless, she liked her kindness. She was so strangely
driven. She wished to think of Martin always, never to forget him, but at the same time not
to think of the life that was connected with him. She must never think of him as some one who
might return. Did that once begin all this present life would be impossible--and she meant
to make this new existence not only possible but successful. Therefore she was building, so
hard as she could, this new house; the walls were rising, the rooms were prepared, every window
was barred, the doors were locked, no one from outside should enter, and everything that belonged
to it--Paul, Grace, the Church, these women, Skeaton itself, her household duties, the servants,
everything and every one was pressed into service. She must have so much to do that she could
not think, she must like every one else so much that she could not want any one else--that
other world must be kept out, no sound nor sight of it must enter ... If even she could forget
Martin. What had he said to her. "Promise me whatever I am, whatever I do, you will love me
always"--and she had promised. Here she was married to Paul and loving Martin more than ever!
As she looked at Mrs. Constantine she wondered what she would say did she know that. Nevertheless,
she had not deceived Paul ... She had told him. She would make this right. She would force
this life to give her what she needed, work and friends and a place in the world. Her face
a little white with her struggle to keep her house standing, she turned to her guests. She
was afraid that she did not play the hostess very well. She felt as though she were play-acting.
She repeated phrases that she had heard Katherine Mark use, and laughed at herself for doing
so. She suspected that they thought her very odd, and she fancied that Mrs. Constantine looked
at her short hair with grave suspicion.

Afterwards, when she told Paul this, he was rather uncomfortable.

"It'll soon be long again, dear, won't it?" he said.

"Don't you like it short then?" she asked.

"Of course I like it, but there's no reason to be unusual, is there? We don't want to seem
different from other people, do we, darling?"

"I don't know," said Maggie. "We want to be ourselves. I don't think I shall ever grow my hair
long again. It's so much more comfortable like this."

"If I ask you, dear," said Paul.

"No, not even if you ask me," she answered, laughing.

She noticed then, for the first time, that he could look sulky like a small school-boy.

"Why, Paul," she said. "If you wanted to grow a beard I shouldn't like it, but I shouldn't
dream of stopping you."

"That's quite different," he answered. "I should never dream of growing a beard. Grace won't
like it if you look odd."

"Grace isn't my teacher," said Maggie with a sudden hot hostility that surprised herself.

She discovered, by the way, very quickly that the three ladies had no very warm feelings for
Grace. They showed undisguised pleasure at the thought that Maggie would now be on various
Committees instead of her sister-in-law.

"It will be your place, of course, as wife of the vicar," said Mrs. Constantine. "Hitherto
Miss Trenchard--"

"Oh, but I couldn't be on a Committee," cried Maggie. "I've never been on one in my life. I
should never know what to do."

"Never been on a Committee!" cried Miss Purves, quivering with interest. "Why, Mrs. Trenchard,
where have you been all this time?"

"I'm only twenty," said Maggie. They certainly thought it strange of her to confess to her
age like that. "At home father never had any Committees, he did it all himself, or rather didn't
do it."

Mrs. Constantine shook her head. "We must all help you," she said. "You're very young, my dear,
for the responsibilities of this parish."

"Yes, I am," said Maggie frankly. "And I'll be very glad of anything you can tell me. But you
mustn't let me be Treasurer or Secretary of anything. I should never answer any of the letters,
and I should probably spend all the money myself."

"My dear, you shouldn't say such things even as a joke," said Mrs. Constantine.

"But it isn't a joke," said Maggie. "I'm terribly muddleheaded, and I've no idea of money at
all. Paul's going to teach me."

Paul smiled nervously.

"Maggie will soon fit into our ways," he said.

"I'm sure she will." said Mrs. Constantine very kindly, but as though she were speaking to
a child of ten.

The bell rang and Mr. Flaunders the curate came in. He was very young, very earnest, and very
enthusiastic. He adored Paul. He told Maggie that he thought that he was the very luckiest
man in the world for having, so early in his career, so wonderful a man as Paul to work under.
He had also adored Grace, but very quickly showed signs of transferring that adoration to Maggie.

"Miss Trenchard's splendid," he said. "I do admire her so, but you'll be a great help to us
all. I'm so glad you've come."

"Why, how do you know?" asked Maggie. "You've only seen me for about two minutes."

"Ah, one can tell," said Mr. Flaunders, sighing.

Maggie liked his enthusiasm, but she couldn't help wishing that his knees wouldn't crack at
unexpected moments, that he wasn't quite so long and thin, and that he wouldn't leave dried
shaving-soap under his ears and in his nostrils. She was puzzled, too, that Paul should be
so obviously pleased with the rather naif adoration. "Paul likes you to praise him," she thought
a little regretfully.

So, for the moment, these people, the house and the Church, fitted in her World. For the rest
of the fortnight she was so busy that she never went on to the beach nor into the woods. She
shopped every morning, feeling very old and grown-up, she went to tea with Mrs. Constantine
and Mrs. Maxse, and she sat on Paul's knee whenever she thought that he would like her to.
She sat on Paul's knee, but that did not mean that, in real intimacy, they approached any nearer
to one another. During those days they stared at one another like children on different sides
of a fence. They were definitely postponing settlement, and with every day Maggie grew more
restless and uneasy. She wanted back that old friendly comradeship that there had been before
their marriage. He seemed now to have lost altogether that attitude to her. Then on the very
day of Grace's return the storm broke. It was tea-time and they were having it, as usual, in
his dusty study. They were sitting someway apart--Paul in the old leather armchair by the fire,
his thick body stretched out, his cheerful good-humoured face puckered and peevish.

Maggie stood up, looking at him.

"Paul, what's the matter?" she asked.

"Matter," he repeated. "Nothing."

"Oh yes, there is ... You're cross with me."

"No, I'm not. What an absurd idea!" He moved restlessly, turning half away, not looking at
her. She came close up to him.

"Look here, Paul. There is something the matter. We haven't been married a fortnight yet and
you're unhappy. Whatever else we married for we married because we were going to be friends.
So you've just got to tell me what the trouble is."

"I've got my sermon to prepare," he said, not looking at her, but half rising in his chair.
"You'd better go, darling."

"I'm not going to," she answered, "until you've told me why you're worrying."

He got up slowly and seemed then as though he were going to pass her. Suddenly he turned, flung
his arms round her, catching her, crushing her in his arms, kissing her wildly.

"Love ... love me ... love me," he whispered. "That's what's the matter. I didn't know myself
before I married you, Maggie. All these years I've lived like a fish and I didn't know it.
But I know it now. And you've got to love me. You're my wife and you've got to love me."

