"I'll take my oath, sir," said Titmouse, excitedly, "I never was so much struck with any one
in all my born days as I was with you, sir, when you first came to my emp--to Mr. Tag-rag's,
sir--Lord, sir, how uncommon sharp you seemed!" Gammon smiled with a deprecating air, and sipped
his wine in silence; but there was great sweetness in the expression of his countenance. Poor
Titmouse's doubts, hopes, and fears, were rapidly being sublimed into a reverence for Gammon....

"I certainly quite agree with Mr. Quirk," said Gammon, presently, "that the difficulties in
our way are of the most serious description. To speak, for an instant only, of the risks we
ourselves incur personally--would you believe it, my dear Mr. Titmouse?--in such a disgraceful
state are our laws, that we can't gratify our feelings by taking up your cause, without rendering
ourselves liable to imprisonment for Heaven knows how long, and a fine that would be ruin itself,
if we should be found out!"

Titmouse continued silent, his wine-glass in his hand arrested in its way to his mouth; which,
together with his eyes, was opened to its widest extent, as he stared with a kind of terror
upon Mr. Gammon.--"Are we, then, unreasonable, my dear sir, in entreating you to be cautious--nay,
in insisting on your compliance with our wishes, in all that we shall deem prudent and necessary,
when not only your own best interests, but our characters, liberties, and fortunes are staked
on the issue of this great enterprise? I am sure," continued Gammon, with great emotion, "you
will feel for us, Mr. Titmouse. I see you do!" Gammon put his hand over his eyes, in order,
apparently, to conceal his emotion, but really to observe what effect he had produced upon
Titmouse. The conjoint influence of Gammon's wine and eloquence not a little agitated Titmouse,
in whose eyes stood tears.

"I'll do anything--anything, sir," Titmouse almost sobbed.

"Oh! all we wish is to be allowed to serve you effectually; and to enable us to do that"----

"Tell me to get into a soot-bag, and lie hid in a coal-hole, and see if I won't do it!"

"What! a coal-hole? Would you, then, even stop at Tag-rag and Co.'s?"

"Ye-e-e-e-s, sir--hem! hem! That is, till the tenth of next month, when my time's up."

"Ah!--ay!--oh, I understand! Another glass, Mr. Titmouse," said Gammon, pouring himself out
some more wine; and observing, while Titmouse followed his example, that there was an unsteadiness
in his motions of a very different description from that which he had exhibited at the commencement
of the evening--at the same time wondering what the deuce they should do with him after the
tenth of August.

"You see, I have the utmost confidence in you, and had so from the first happy moment when
we met; but Mr. Quirk is rather sus--In short to prevent misunderstanding (as he says,) Mr.
Quirk is anxious that you should give a written promise." (Titmouse looked eagerly about for
writing materials.) "No, not now, but in a day or two's time. I confess, my dear Mr. Titmouse,
if I might have decided on the matter, I should have been satisfied with your verbal promise;
but I must say, Mr. Quirk's gray hairs seem to have made him quite--eh! you understand? Don't
you think so, Mr. Titmouse?"

"To be sure! 'pon my honor, Mr. Gammon!" replied Titmouse; not very distinctly understanding,
however, what he was so energetically assenting to.

"I dare say you wonder why we wish you to stop a few months longer at your present hiding-place
at Tag-rag's?"

"Can't, possibly!--after the tenth of next month, sir," replied Titmouse, eagerly.

"But as soon as we begin to fire off our guns against the enemy--Lord, my dear sir, if they
could only find out, you know, where to get at you--you would never live to enjoy your ten
thousand a-year! They'd either poison or kidnap you--get you out of the way, unless you keep
out of their way: and if you will but consent to keep snug at Tag-rag's for a while, who'd
suspect where you was? We could easily arrange with your friend Tag-rag that you should"----

"My stars! I'd give something to hear you tell Tag-rag--why, I wonder what he'll do!"

"Make you very comfortable, and let you have your own way in everything--that you may rely upon!"

"Go to the play, for instance, whenever I want, and do all that sort of thing?"

"Nay, try! anything! And as for money, I've persuaded Mr. Quirk to consent to our advancing
you a certain sum per week, from the present time, while the cause is going on,"--(Titmouse's
heart began to beat fast,)--"in order to place you above absolute inconvenience; and when you
consider the awful sums we shall have to disburse--cash out of pocket--(the tongues of counsel,
you know, are set on gold springs, and only gold keys open their lips!)--for court-fees, and
a thousand other indispensable matters, I should candidly say that four thousand pounds of
hard cash out of pocket, advanced by our firm in your case, would be the very lowest." (Titmouse
stared at him with an expression of stupid wonder.) "Yes--four thousand pounds, Mr. Titmouse,
at the very least--the very least." Again he paused, keenly scrutinizing Titmouse's features
by the light of the candles, which just then were brought in. "You seem surprised, Mr. Titmouse."

"Why--why--where's all the money to come from, sir?" exclaimed Titmouse, aghast.

"Ah! that is indeed a fearful question,"--replied Gammon, with a very serious air; "but at
my request, our firm has agreed to make the necessary advances; and also (for I could not bear
the sight of your distress, Mr. Titmouse!) to supply your necessities liberally in the mean
time, as I was saying."

"Won't you take another glass of wine, Mr. Gammon?" suddenly inquired Titmouse, with a confident
air.

"With all my heart, Mr. Titmouse! I'm delighted that you approve of it. I paid enough for it,
I can warrant you."

"Cuss me if ever I tasted such wine! Uncommon! Come--no heel-taps, Mr. Gammon--here goes--let's
drink--success to the affair!"

"With all my heart, my dear sir--with all my heart. Success to the thing--amen!" and Gammon
drained his glass; so did Titmouse. "Ah! Mr. Titmouse, you'll soon have wine enough to float
a frigate--and indeed what not--with ten thousand a-year?"

"And all the back-rents, you know--ha, ha!"

"Yes--to be sure!--the back-rents! The sweetest estate that is to be found in all Yorkshire!
Gracious, Mr. Titmouse!" continued Gammon, with an excited air--"What may you not do? Go where
you like--do what you like--get into Parliament--marry some lovely woman of high rank!"

"Lord, Mr. Gammon!--you a'n't dreaming? Nor I? But now, in course, you must be paid handsome
for your trouble!--Only say how much--Name your sum! What you please! You only get me all you've
said--and I'll"----

"For my part, I wish to rely entirely on your mere word of honor. Between gentlemen, you know--my
dear sir"----

"You only try me, sir."

"But you see, Mr. Quirk's getting old, and naturally is anxious to provide for those whom he
will leave behind him--and so Mr. Snap agreed with him--two to one against me, Mr. Titmouse--of
course they carried the day--two to one."

"Never mind that!--only say the figure, sir!" cried Titmouse, eagerly.

"A single year's income, only--ten thousand pounds will hardly"----

"Ten thousand pounds! By jingo, but that is a slice out of the cake! Oh, Lord!" quoth Titmouse,
looking aghast.

"A mere crumb, my dear sir!--a trifle! Why, we are going to give you that sum at least every
year--and indeed it was suggested to our firm, that unless you gave us at least a sum of twenty-five
thousand pounds--in fact, we were recommended to look out for some other heir."

"Oh dear! oh Mr. Gammon," cried Titmouse, hastily--"it's not to be thought of, sir."

"So I said; and as for throwing it up--to be sure we shall have ourselves to borrow large sums
to carry on the war--and unless we have your bond for at least ten thousand pounds, we cannot
raise a farthing."

"Well--curse me, if you sha'n't do what you like!--Give me your hand, and do what you like,
Mr. Gammon!"

"Thank you, Mr. Titmouse! How I like a glass of wine with a friend in this quiet way!--you'll
always find me rejoiced to show"----

"Your hand! By George--Didn't I take a liking to you from the first? But to speak my mind a
bit--as for Mr. Quirk--excuse me--but he's a cur--cur--cur--mudg--mudg--mudg--eon--hem!"

"Hope you've not been so imprudent, my dear Titmouse," threw in Mr. Gammon, rather anxiously,
"as to borrow money--eh?"

"Devil knows, and devil cares! No stamp, I know--bang up to the mark"--here he winked an eye,
and put his finger to his nose--"wide awake--Huck--uck--uck--uck! how his name sti--sticks.
Your hand, Mr. Gammon--here--this, this way--what are you bobbing your head about for? Ah,
ha!--The floor--'pon my life!--how funny--it's like being at sea--up, down--oh dear!"--he clapped
his hand to his head.

[Pythagoras has finely observed, that a man is not to be considered dead drunk till he lies
on the floor, and stretches out his arms and legs to prevent his going lower.]

See-saw, see-saw, up and down, up and down, went everything about him. Now he felt sinking
through the floor, then gently rising towards the ceiling. Mr. Gammon seemed getting into a
mist, and waving about the candles in it. Mr. Titmouse's head swam; his chair seemed to be
resting on the waves of the sea.

"I'm afraid the room's rather close, Mr. Titmouse," hastily observed Gammon, perceiving from
Titmouse's sudden paleness and silence, but too evident symptoms that his powerful intellect
was for a while paralyzed. Gammon started to the window and opened it. Paler, however, and
paler became Titmouse. Gammon's game was up much sooner than he had calculated on.

"Mrs. Brown! Mrs. Brown!" he called out, opening the sitting-room door--"order a coach instantly,
and tell Tomkins"--that was the inn porter--"to get his son ready to go home with this gentleman--he's
not very well." He was quickly obeyed. It was, in truth, "all up" with Titmouse--at least for
a while.

As soon as Gammon had thus got rid of his distinguished guest, he ordered the table to be cleared
of the glasses, and tea to be ready within half an hour. He then walked out to enjoy the cool
evening; on returning, sat pleasantly sipping his tea, now and then dipping into the edifying
columns of the Sunday Flash, but oftener ruminating upon his recent conversation with Titmouse,
and speculating upon certain possible results to himself personally; and a little after eleven
o'clock, that good man, at peace with all the world--calm and serene--retired to repose. He
had that night rather a singular dream; it was of a snake encircling a monkey, as if in gentle
and playful embrace. Suddenly tightening its folds, a crackling sound was heard; the writhing
coils were then slowly unwound--and, with a shudder, he beheld the monster licking over the
motionless figure, till it was covered with a viscid slime. Then the serpent began to devour
his prey; and, when gorged and helpless, behold, it was immediately fallen upon by two other
snakes. To his disturbed fancy, there was a dim resemblance between their heads and those of
Quirk and Snap--they all three became intertwisted together--and writhed and struggled till
they fell over the edge of a dark and frightful precipice--he woke--thank God! it was only a dream.

CHAPTER V.

When, after his return from Mr. Gammon's chambers, at Thavies' Inn, Titmouse woke at an early
hour in the morning, he was laboring under the ordinary effects of unaccustomed inebriety.
His lips were perfectly parched; his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth; there was a horrid
weight pressing on his aching eyes, and upon his throbbing head. His pillow seemed undulating
beneath him, and everything swimming around him; but when, to crown the whole, he was roused
from a momentary nap by the insupportable--the loathed importunities of Mrs. Squallop, that
he would just sit up and partake of three thick rounds of hot buttered toast, and a great basin
of smoking tea, which would do him so much good, and settle his stomach--at all events, if
he'd only have a thimbleful of gin in it--poor Titmouse was fairly overcome!... He lay in bed
all that day, during which he underwent very severe sufferings; and it was not till towards
night that he began to have anything like a distinct recollection of the events of the evening
which he had spent with Mr. Gammon; who, by the way, had sent one of the clerks, during the
afternoon, to inquire after him. He did not get out of bed on the Tuesday till past twelve
o'clock, when, in a very rickety condition, he made his appearance at the shop of Messrs. Tag-rag
and Co.; on approaching which he felt a sudden faintness, arising from mingled apprehension
and disgust.

"What are you doing here, sir?--You're no longer in my employment, sir," exclaimed Tag-rag,
attempting to speak calmly, as he hurried down the shop, white with rage, to meet Titmouse,
and planted himself right in the way of his languid and pallid shopman.

"Sir!"--faintly exclaimed Titmouse, with his hat in his hand.

"Very much obliged, sir--very! by the offer of your valuable services," said Tag-rag. "But--that's
the way out again, sir--that!--there!--good-morning, sir--good-morning, sir!--that's the way
out"--and he egged on Titmouse, till he had got him fairly into the street--with infinite difficulty
restraining himself from giving the extruded sinner a parting kick! Titmouse stood for a moment
before the door, trembling and aghast, looking in a bewildered manner at the shop: but Tag-rag
again making his appearance, Titmouse slowly walked away and returned to his lodgings. Oh that
Mr. Gammon had witnessed the scene--thought he--and so have been satisfied that it had been
Tag-rag who had put an end to his service, not he himself who had quitted it!

The next day, about the same hour, Mr. Gammon made his appearance at the establishment from
which Titmouse had been expelled so summarily, and inquired for Mr. Tag-rag, who presently
presented himself--and recognizing Mr. Gammon, whose presence naturally suggested the previous
day's transaction with Titmouse, changed color a little.

"What did you please to want, sir?" inquired Mr. Tag-rag, with a would-be resolute air, twirling
round his watch-key with some energy.

"Only a few minutes' conversation, sir, if you please," said Mr. Gammon, with such a significant
manner as a little disturbed Mr. Tag-rag; who, with an ill-supported sneer, bowed very low,
and led the way to his own little room. Having closed the door, he, with an exceedingly civil
air, begged Mr. Gammon to be seated; and then occupied the chair opposite to him, and awaited
the issue with ill-disguised anxiety.

"I am very sorry, Mr. Tag-rag," commenced Gammon, in his usual elegant and feeling manner,
"that any misunderstanding should have arisen between you and Mr. Titmouse!"

"You're a lawyer, sir, I suppose?" Mr. Gammon bowed. "Then you must know, sir, that there are
always two sides to a quarrel," said Mr. Tag-rag, anxiously.

"Yes--you are right, Mr. Tag-rag; and, having already heard Mr. Titmouse's version, may I be
favored with your account of your reasons for discharging him? For he tells us that yesterday
you dismissed him suddenly from your employment, without giving him any warn"----

"So I did, sir; and what of that?" inquired Tag-rag, tossing his head with a sudden air of
defiance. "Things are come to a pretty pass indeed, when a man at the head of such an establishment
as mine, can't dismiss a drunken, idle, impertinent--abusive vagabond." Here Mr. Gammon somewhat
significantly took out his tablets--as if to note down the language of his companion.

"Do you seriously," inquired Mr. Gammon, "charge him with being such a character, and can you
prove your charges, Mr. Tag-rag?"

"Prove 'em! yes, sir, a hundred times over; so will all my young men!" replied Tag-rag, vehemently.

"And in a court of justice, Mr. Tag-rag?" said Mr. Gammon, emphatically.

"Oh! he is going to law, is he? Ah, ha! Bless my soul!--So that's why you're come here--ah,
ha!--when you can make a silk purse out of a sow's ear, you may get your bill out of Mr. Tittlebat
Titmouse!--ha, ha, ha!" laughed Tag-rag, hoping thereby to conceal how much he was really startled.

"Well--that's our look-out, Mr. Tag-rag: to Mr. Titmouse, his character is as valuable as Mr.
Tag-rag's is to him. In short, Mr. Titmouse has placed himself in our hands, and we are resolved
to go on with the case, if it cost us a hundred pounds--we are indeed, Mr. Tag-rag."

"Why--he's not a penny in the world to go to law with!" exclaimed Tag-rag, with an air of mingled
wonder, scorn, and alarm.

"But you forget, Mr. Tag-rag, that if Mr. Titmouse's account of the business should turn out
to be correct, it will be your pocket that must pay all the expenses, amounting probably to
twenty times the sum which the law may award to him!"

"Law, sir?--It's not justice!--I hate law.--Give me common sense and common honesty!" said
Mr. Tag-rag, with a little agitation.

"Both of them would condemn your conduct, Mr. Tag-rag; for I have heard a full account of what
Mr. Titmouse has suffered at your hands--of the cause of your sudden warning to him, and your
still more sudden dismissal of yesterday. Oh, Mr. Tag-rag! upon my honor, it won't do--not
for a moment--and should you go on, rely upon what I tell you, that it will cost you dear."

"And suppose, sir," said Tag-rag, in a would-be contemptuous tone--"I should have witnesses
to prove all I've said--which of us will look funny then, sir?"

"Which, indeed! However, since that is your humor, I can only assure you that it is very possible
we may be, by the time of the trial, possessed of some evidence which will surprise you: and
that Mr. Titmouse defies you to prove any misconduct on his part. We have, in short, taken
up his cause, and, as you may perhaps find by and by, to your cost, we shall not easily let
it drop."

"I mean no offence, sir," said Tag-rag, in a mitigated tone; "but I must say, that ever since
you first came here, Titmouse has been quite another person. He seems not to know who I am,
nor to care either--and he's perfectly unbearable."

"My dear sir, what has he said or done?--that, you know, is what you must be prepared to prove,
when you come into court!"

"Well, sir! and which of us is likely to be best off for witnesses?--Think of that, sir--I've
eighteen young men"----

"We shall chance that, sir," replied Gammon, shrugging his shoulders, and smiling very bitterly;
"but again, I ask, what did you dismiss him for? and, sir, I request a plain, straightforward
answer."

"What did I dismiss him for?--Haven't I eyes and ears?--First and foremost, he's the most odious-mannered
fellow I ever came near--and--he hadn't a shirt to his back when I first took him--the ungrateful
wretch!--Sir, it's at any rate not against the law, I suppose, to hate a man;--and if it isn't,
how I HATE Titmouse!"

"Mr. Tag-rag"--said Gammon, lowering his voice, and looking very earnestly at his companion--"can
I say a word to you in confidence--the strictest confidence?"

"What's it about, sir?" inquired Tag-rag, somewhat apprehensively.

"I dare say you may have felt, perhaps, rather surprised at the interest which I--in fact our
office, the office of Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, in Saffron Hill--appear to have taken in Mr.
Titmouse."

"Why, sir, it's your look-out to see how you're to be paid for what you're doing--and I dare
say lawyers generally keep a pretty sharp look-out in that direction!"

Gammon smiled, and continued--"It may, perhaps, a little surprise you, Mr. Tag-rag, to hear
that your present (ought I to say, your late?) shopman, Mr. Tittlebat Titmouse, is at this
moment probably the very luckiest man--and one among the richest, too--in this kingdom."

"Why--you don't mean to say he's drawn a prize in the lottery?"--exclaimed Tag-rag, pricking
up his ears, and manifestly changing color.

"Pho! my dear sir, that is a mere bagatelle compared with the good fortune which has just fallen
to his lot. I solemnly assure you, that I believe it will very shortly turn out that he is
at this moment the undoubted owner of an estate worth at least ten thousand a-year, besides
a vast accumulation of ready money!"

"Ten thousand a-year, sir!--My Titmouse!--Tittlebat Titmouse!--Ten thousand a-year! it's quite
impossible!" faltered Tag-rag, after a pause, having gone as pale as death.

"I have as little doubt of the fact, however, sir, as I have that you yesterday turned him
out of doors, Mr. Tag-rag!"

"But"--said Mr. Tag-rag, in a low tone--"who could have dreamed it?--How was--really, Mr. Gammon!--how
was I to know it?"

"That's the fact, however," said Gammon, shrugging his shoulders. Tag-rag wriggled about in
his chair, put his hands in and out of his pockets, scratched his head, and continued staring
open-mouthed at the bearer of such astounding intelligence. "Perhaps, however, all this is
meant as a joke, sir,"--said he--"And if so--it's--it's--a very"----

"It's one of his solicitors who were fortunate enough to make the discovery, that tells you,
sir," interrupted Gammon, calmly. "I repeat what I have already told you, Mr. Tag-rag, that
an estate of ten thousand a-year is the very least"----

"Why, that's two hundred thousand pounds, sir!"--exclaimed Tag-rag, with an awe-struck air.

"At the very least"----

"Lord, Mr. Gammon!--Excuse me, sir, but how did you find it out?"

"Mere accident--a mere accidental discovery, sir, in the course of other professional inquiries!"

"And does Mr. Titmouse know it?"

"Ever since the day, Mr. Tag-rag, after that on which I called on him here!" replied Gammon,
pointedly.

"You--don't--say--so!"--exclaimed Tag-rag, and then continued silent for nearly half a minute,
evidently amazed beyond all power of expression.

"Well,"--at length he observed--"I will say this--with all his few faults--he's the most amiable
young gentleman--the very amiablest young gentleman I--ever--came near. I always thought there
was something uncommon superior-like in his looks."

"Yes--I think he is of rather an amiable turn," observed Gammon, with an expressive smile--"very
gentlemanlike--and so intelligent"----

"Intelligent! Mr. Gammon! you should only have known him as I have known him!--Well, to be
sure!--Lord! His only fault was, that he was above his business; but when one comes to think
of it, how could it be otherwise? From the time I first clapped eyes on him--I--I--knew he
was--a superior article--quite superior--you know what I mean, sir?--he couldn't help it, of
course!--to be sure--he never was much liked by the other young men; but that was jealousy!--all
jealousy; I saw that all the while." Here he looked at the door, and added in a very low tone,
"Many sleepless nights has their bad treatment of Mr. Titmouse cost me!--Even I, now and then,
used to look and speak sharply to him--just to keep him, as it were, down to the mark of the
others--he was so uncommon handsome and genteel in his manner, sir. I remember telling my good
lady the very first day he came to me, that he was a gentleman born--or ought to have been one."

Now, do you suppose, acute reader, that Mr. Tag-rag was insincere in all this? By no means.
He spoke the real dictates of his heart, unaware of the sudden change which had taken place
in his feelings. It certainly has an ugly look of improbability--but it was the nature of the
beast; his eye suddenly caught a glimpse of the golden calf, and he instinctively fell down
and worshipped it. "Well--at all events," said Mr. Gammon, scarcely able to keep a serious
expression on his face--"though he's not lived much like a gentleman hitherto, yet he will
live for the future like a very great gentleman--and spend his money like one, too."

"I--I--dare say--- he will!--I wonder how he will get through a quarter of it!--what do you
think he'll do, sir?"

"Heaven only knows--he may very shortly do just what he likes! Go into the House of Commons,
or--perhaps--have a peerage given him"----

"Lord, sir!--I feel as if I shouldn't be quite right again for the rest of the day!--I own
to you, sir, that all yesterday and to-day I've been on the point of going to Mr. Titmouse's
lodgings to apologize for--for---- Good gracious me! one can't take it all in at once--Ten
thousand a-year!--Many a lord hasn't got more--some not half as much, I'll be bound!--Dear
me, what will he do!--Well, one thing I'm sure of--he'll never have a truer friend than plain
Thomas Tag-rag, though I've not always been a-flattering him--I respected him too much!--The
many little things I've borne with in Titmouse, that in any one else I'd have--But why didn't
he tell me, sir? We should have understood one another in a moment."--Here he paused abruptly;
for his breath seemed suddenly taken away, as he reviewed the series of indignities which he
had latterly inflicted on Titmouse--the kind of life which that amiable young gentleman had
led in his establishment.

Never had the keen Gammon enjoyed anything more exquisitely than the scene which I have been
describing. To a man of his practical sagacity in the affairs of life, and knowledge of human
nature, nothing could appear more ludicrously contemptible than the conduct of poor Tag-rag.
How differently are the minds of men constituted! How Gammon despised Tag-rag! And what opinion
has the acute reader by this time formed of Gammon?

"Now, may I take for granted, Mr. Tag-rag, that we understand each other?" inquired Gammon.

"Yes, sir," replied Tag-rag, meekly. "But do you think Mr. Titmouse will ever forgive or forget
the little misunderstanding we've lately had? If I could but explain to him how I have been
acting a part towards him--all for his good!"

"You may have opportunities for doing so, if you are really so disposed, Mr. Tag-rag; for I
have something seriously to propose to you. Circumstances render it desirable that for some
little time this important affair should be kept as quiet as possible; and it is Mr. Titmouse's
wish and ours--as his confidential professional advisers--that for some few months he should
continue in your establishment, and apparently in your service as before."

"In my service!--my service!" interrupted Tag-rag, opening his eyes to their utmost. "I sha'n't
know how to behave in my own premises! Have a man with ten thousand a-year behind my counter,
sir? I might as well have the Lord Mayor! Sir, it can't--it can't be. Now, if Mr. Titmouse
chose to become a partner in the house--ay, there might be something in that--he needn't have
any trouble--be only a sleeping partner." Tag-rag warmed with the thought. "Really, sir, that
wouldn't be so much amiss--would it?" Gammon assured him that it was out of the question; and
gave him some of the reasons for the proposal which he (Mr. Gammon) had been making. While
Gammon fancied that Tag-rag was paying profound attention to what he was saying, Tag-rag's
thoughts had shot far ahead. He had an only child--a daughter, about twenty years old--Miss
Tabitha Tag-rag; and the delightful possibility of her by-and-by becoming MRS. TITMOUSE, put
her aspiring parent into a perspiration. Into the proposal just made by Mr. Gammon, Tag-rag
fell with great eagerness, which he attempted to conceal--for what innumerable opportunities
would it not afford him for bringing about the desire of his heart--for throwing the lovely
young couple into each other's way,--endearing them to each other! Oh, delightful! It really
looked almost as if it had been determined by the powers above that the thing should come to
pass! If Mr. Titmouse did not dine with him, Mrs. and Miss Tag-rag, at Satin Lodge, Clapham,
on the very next Sunday, it should, Tag-rag resolved, be owing to no fault of his.--

Mr. Gammon having arranged everything exactly as he had desired, and having again enjoined
Mr. Tag-rag to absolute secrecy, took his departure. Mr. Tag-rag, in his excitement, thrust
out his hand, and grasped that of Gammon, which was extended towards him somewhat coldly and
reluctantly. Tag-rag attended him with extreme obsequiousness to the door; and on his departure,
walked back rapidly to his own room, and sat down for nearly half an hour in a sort of turbid
but delicious revery. Abruptly rising, at length, he clapped his hat on his head, and saying,
as he passed along the shop, that he should soon be back, hurried out to call upon his future
son-in-law, full of affectionate anxiety concerning his health--and vowing within himself,
that henceforth it should be the study of his life to make his daughter and Titmouse happy!
There could be no doubt of the reality of the event just communicated to him by Mr. Gammon;
for he was one of a well-known firm of solicitors; he had had an interview on "important business"
with Titmouse a fortnight before, and that could have been nothing but the prodigious event
just communicated to himself. Such things had happened to others--why not to Tittlebat Titmouse?
In short, Tag-rag had no doubt on the matter; and his heart really yearned towards Titmouse.

Finding that gentleman not at home, Mr. Tag-rag left a most particularly civil message, half
a dozen times repeated, with Mrs. Squallop (to whom also he was specially civil,) to the effect
that he, Mr. Tag-rag, would be only too happy to see Mr. Titmouse at No. 375, Oxford Street,
whenever it might suit his convenience; that Mr. Tag-rag had something very particular to say
to him about the unpleasant and unaccountable[!] occurrence of yesterday; that Mr. Tag-rag
was most deeply concerned to hear of Mr. Titmouse's indisposition, and anxious to learn from
himself that he had recovered, &c. &c. &c.;--all which, together with one or two other little
matters, which Mrs. Squallop could not help putting together, satisfied that shrewd lady that
"something was in the wind about Mr. Titmouse;" and made her reflect rather anxiously on one
or two violent scenes she had had with him, and which she was now ready entirely to forget
and forgive. Having thus done all that at present was in his power to forward the affair, the
anxious and excited Tag-rag returned to his shop; on entering which, one Lutestring, his principal
young man, eagerly apprised him of a claim which he had, as he imagined, only the moment before,
established to the thanks of Mr. Tag-rag, by having "bundled off, neck and crop, that hodious
Titmouse," who, about five minutes before, had, it seemed, had the "impudence" to present himself
at the shop-door, and walk in as if nothing had happened!! [Titmouse had so presented himself
in consequence of a call from Mr. Gammon, immediately after his interview with Tag-rag.]

"You--ordered--Mr. Titmouse--off!!" exclaimed Tag-rag, starting back aghast, and almost petrifying
his voluble and officious assistant.

"Of course, sir," at length exclaimed that person, meekly--"after what happened yester"----

"Who authorized you, Mr. Lutestring?" inquired Tag-rag, striving to choke down the rage rising
within him.

"Why, sir, I really supposed that"----

"You supposed!! You're a meddling, impertinent, disgusting"---- Suddenly his face was overspread
with smiles, as three or four elegantly dressed customers entered, whom he received with profuse
obeisances. But when their backs were turned, he directed a lightning look towards Lutestring,
and retreated once more to his room, to meditate on the agitating events of the last hour.
The extraordinary alteration in Mr. Tag-rag's behavior was attributed by his shopmen to his
having been frightened out of his wits by the threats of Titmouse's lawyer--for such it was
clear the stranger was; and more than one of them stored it up in their minds as a useful precedent
against some future occasion.

Twice afterwards during the day did Tag-rag call at Mr. Titmouse's lodgings--but in vain; and
on returning the third time he felt not a little disquieted. He determined, however, to call
the first thing on the ensuing morning; if he should then fail of seeing Mr. Titmouse, he was
resolved to go to Messrs. Quirk, Gammon, and Snap--and besides, address a very affectionate
letter to Mr. Titmouse. How totally changed had become all his feelings towards that gentleman
within the last few hours. The more that Tag-rag reflected on Titmouse's conduct, the more
he saw in it to approve of. How steady and regular had he been in his habits! how civil and
obliging! how patient of rebuke! how pleasing in his manners to the customers! Surely, surely,
thought Tag-rag, Titmouse can't have been four long years in my employ without getting a--sort
of a--feeling--of attachment to me--he'd have left long ago if he hadn't! It was true there
had now and then been tiffs between them; but who could agree always? Even Mrs. Tag-rag and
he, when they were courting, often fell out with one another!--Tag-rag was now ready to forget
and forgive all--he had never meant any harm to Titmouse. He believed that poor Tittlebat was
an orphan, unhappy soul! alone in the wide world--now he would become the prey of designing
strangers and adventurers. Tag-rag did not like the appearance of Gammon. No doubt that person
would try and ingratiate himself as much as possible with Titmouse! Then Titmouse was remarkably
good-looking. "I wonder what Tabby will think of him when she sees him!" How anxious Tittlebat
must be to see her--his daughter! How could Tag-rag make Tittlebat's stay at his premises (for
he could not bring himself to believe that on the morrow he could not set all right, and disavow
the abominable conduct of Lutestring) agreeable and delightful? He would discharge the first
of his young men that did not show Titmouse proper respect.--What low lodgings poor Tittlebat
lived in!--Why could he not take up his quarters at Satin Lodge? They always had a nice spare
bedroom. Ah! that would be a stroke! How Tabby could endear herself to him! What a number of
things Mrs. Tag-rag could do to make him comfortable!

About seven o'clock Tag-rag quitted his premises in Oxford Street, for his country house; and,
occupied with these and similar delightful and anxious thoughts and speculations, hurried along
Oxford Street on his way to the Clapham stage, without thinking of his umbrella, though it
rained fast. When he had taken his place on the coach-box, beside old Crack, (as he had done
almost every night for years,) he was so unusually silent that Crack naturally thought his
best passenger was going to become bankrupt, or compound with his creditors, or do something
in that line, shortly. Mr. Tag-rag could hardly keep his temper at the slow pace old Crack
was driving at--just when Mr. Tag-rag would have wished to gallop the whole way. Never had
he descended with so much briskness, as when the coach at length drew up before the little
green gate, which opened on the tidy little gravel walk, which led up to the little green wooden
porch, which sheltered the little door which admitted you into little Satin Lodge. As Tag-rag
stood for a moment wiping his wet shoes upon the mat, he could not help observing, for the
first time, by the inward light of ten thousand a-year, how uncommon narrow the passage was;
and thinking that Satin Lodge would never do, when he should be the father-in-law of a man
worth ten thousand a-year--but he could easily let that house then, and take a large one. As
he hung his hat upon the peg, the perilous insolence of Lutestring occurred to him; and he
deposited such a prodigious, but half-suppressed execration upon that gentleman's name, as
must have sunk a far more buoyant sinner many fathoms deeper than usual into a certain hot
and deep place that shall be nameless.

Mrs. and Miss Tag-rag were sitting in the front parlor, intending to take tea as soon as Mr.
Tag-rag should have arrived. It was not a large room, but sweetly furnished, according to the
taste of the owners. There was only one window, and it had a flaunting white summer curtain.
The walls were ornamented with three pictures, in ponderous gilt frames, being portraits of
Mr., Mrs., and Miss Tag-rag; and I do not feel disposed to say more concerning these pictures,
than that in each of them the dress was done with elaborate exactness--the faces seeming to
have been painted in, for the purpose of setting off and completing the picture of the dress.
The skinny little Miss Tag-rag sat at the worn-out, jingling pianoforte, causing it to utter--oh,
horrid and doleful sound!--"The Battle of Prague." Mrs. Tag-rag, a fat, showily dressed woman
of about fifty, her cap having a prodigious number of artificial flowers in it, sat reading
a profitable volume, entitled "Groans from the Bottomless Pit to Awaken Sleeping Sinners,"
by (as he was pleased to dignify himself) the Rev. DISMAL HORROR--a very rousing young dissenting
preacher lately come into that neighborhood, and who had almost frightened into fits half the
women and children, and one or two old men, of his congregation; giving out, among several
similarly cheering intimations, that they must all necessarily be damned unless they immediately
set about making themselves as miserable as possible in this world. Only the Sunday before,
he had pointed out, with awful force and distinctness, how cards and novels were the devil's
traps to catch souls; and balls and theatres short and easy cuts to----!

He had proved to his trembling female hearers, in effect, that there was only one way to heaven,
i. e. through his chapel; that the only safe mode of spending their time on earth was reading
such blessed works as that which he had just published, and going daily to prayer-meetings.
When, however, a Sunday or two before, he had the assurance to preach a funeral sermon, to
"improve the death"--such being his impressive phrase--of a Miss Snooks, (who had kept a circulating
library in the neighborhood, but had not been a member of his congregation;) and who, having
been to the theatre on the Thursday night, was taken ill of a bowel attack on the Friday, and
was a "lifeless corpse when the next Sabbath dawned"--you might have heard a beetle sneeze
within any of the walls, all over the crowded chapel. Two-thirds of the women present, struck
with the awful judgment upon the deceased Miss Snooks, inwardly made solemn vows never again
to enter the accursed walls of a theatre or concert-room;[11] many determined no longer to
subscribe to the circulating library, ruining their precious souls with light and amusing reading;
and almost all resolved forthwith to become active members of a sort of religious tract society,
which "dear Mr. Horror" had just established in the neighborhood, for the purpose of giving
the sick and starving poor spiritual food, in the shape of tracts, (chiefly written by himself,)
which might "wean their affections away from this vain world," and "fix them on better things,"
rejoicing, in the meanwhile, in the bitter pangs of destitution--and able to bear them! All
this sort of thing Mr. Horror possibly imagined to be calculated to advance the cause of real
religion! In short, he had created a sort of spiritual fever about the place which was then
just at its height in worthy Mrs. Tag-rag.

"Well, Dolly, how are you to-night?" inquired Tag-rag, with unusual briskness, on entering
the room.

"Tolerable, thank you, Tag," replied Mrs. Tag-rag, mournfully, with a sigh, closing the cheerful
volume she had been perusing--it having been recommended the preceding Sunday from the pulpit
by its pious and gifted author, to be read and prayed over every day by every member of his
congregation!

"And how are you, Tabby?" said Tag-rag, addressing his daughter. "Come and kiss me, you little
slut--come!"

"No, I sha'n't, pa! Do let me go on with my practising," said Miss Tag-rag--and twang! twang!
went those infernal keys.

"D' ye hear, Tab? Come and kiss me, you little minx"----

"Really, pa, how provoking--just as I am in the middle of the Cries of the Wounded! I sha'n't--that's
flat."

The doting parent could not, however, be denied; so he stepped to the piano, put his arm around
his dutiful daughter's neck, kissed her fondly, and then stood for a moment behind her, admiring
her brilliant execution of The Trumpet of Victory. Having changed his coat, and put on an old
pair of shoes, Mr. Tag-rag was comfortable for the evening.

"Tabby plays wonderful well, Dolly, don't she?" said Tag-rag, as the tea-things were being
brought in, by way of beginning a conversation, while he drew his chair nearer to his wife.

"Ah! I'd a deal rather see her reading something serious--for life is short, Tag, and eternity's
long."

"Botheration!--Stuff!--Tut!" exclaimed Tag-rag!

"You may find it out one day, my dear, when, alas! it's too late"--

"I'll tell you what, Dolly," said Tag-rag, angrily, "you're doing a great deal too much in
this line of business--my house is getting like a Methodist meeting-house. I can't bear it--I
can't! What the deuce is come to you all in these parts, lately?" Mr. Tag-rag, I should apprise
the reader, had been induced, some three years before, to quit the Church of England and take
up with Mr. Dismal Horror; but his zeal had by no means kept pace with that of his wife.

"Ah, Tag-rag," replied his wife, with a sigh, "I can only pray for you--I can do no more"----

"Oh!" exclaimed Tag-rag, with an air of desperate disgust, thrusting his hands into his pockets,
and stretching his legs to their utmost extent under the table. "I'll tell you what, Mrs. T."
he added after a while, "I like religion well enough--but too much of it no one can stand.
Too much of one thing is good for nothing; you may choke a dog with pudding;--I sha'n't renew
my sittings at Mr. Horror's."

"Oh, dear, dear pa, do! That's a love of a pa!" interposed Miss Tag-rag, twirling round on
her music-stool. "All Clapham's running after him--he's quite the rage! There's the Dugginses,
the Pips, the Jones, the Maggots,--and, really, Mr. Horror does preach such dreadful things,
it's quite delightful to look round and see all the people with their eyes and mouths wide
open--and ours is such a good pew for seeing--and Mr. Horror is such a bee--yeautiful preacher--isn't
he, ma?"

"Yes, love, he is--but I wish I could see you profit by him, and preparing for death"----

"Why, ma, how can you go on in that ridiculous way? You know I'm not twenty yet, however old
you and pa may be!"

"Well, well! poor Tabby!" here Mrs. Tag-rag's voice faltered--"a day will come, when"----

"Play me the Devil among the Tailors, or Copenhagen Waltz, or something of that sort, Tabby,"
said her father, furiously, "or I shall be sick!--I can't bear it! Curse Mr. Hor"----

"Well!--Oh, my!!--I never!--Mr. Tag-rag!" exclaimed his astounded wife.

"Play away, Tab, or I'll go and sit in the kitchen! They're cheerful there! The next time I
come across Mr. Horror, if I don't give him a bit of my mind"--here he paused, and slapped
his hand with much energy upon the table. Mrs. Tag-rag wiped her eyes, sighed, and resumed
her book. Miss Tag-rag began to make tea, her papa gradually forgetting his rage, as he fixed
his dull gray eyes fondly on the pert skinny countenance of his daughter.

"By the way, Tag," exclaimed Mrs. Tag-rag, suddenly, but in the same mournful tone, addressing
her husband, "you haven't of course forgot the flowers for my new bonnet?"

"Never once thought of it," replied Tag-rag, doggedly.

"You haven't! Good gracious! what am I to go to chapel in next Sunday?" she exclaimed with
sudden alarm, closing her book, "and our seat in the very front of the gallery!--bless me!
I shall have a hundred eyes on me!"

"Now that you're coming down a bit, and dropped out of the clouds--or p'r'aps I should say--come
up from beneath!--Dolly," said her husband, much relieved, "I'll tell you a bit of news that
will, I fancy, rather"----

"Come! what is it, Tag?" she inquired with a sort of languid curiosity.

"What should you say of a chance of a certain somebody" (here he looked unutterable things
at his daughter) "that shall be nameless, becoming mistress of ten thousand a-year?"

"Why"--Mrs. Tag-rag changed color--"has any one fallen in love with Tab?"

"What should you say, Mrs. T., of our Tab marrying a man with ten thousand a-year? There's
for you! Isn't that better than all your rel---- hem!"

"Oh, Tag, don't say that; but"--here she hastily turned down the leaf of Groans from the Bottomless
Pit, and tossed that inestimable work upon the sofa--"do tell me, lovey! what are you talking
about?"

"What indeed, Dolly!--I'm going to have him here to dinner next Sunday."

Miss Tag-rag having been listening with breathless eagerness to this little colloquy between
her prudent and amiable parents, unconscious of what she was about, poured almost all the contents
of the tea-pot into the sugar-basin, instead of her papa's and mamma's tea-cups.

"Have who, dear Tag?" inquired Mrs. Tag-rag, impatiently.

"Who? why whom but my Tittlebat Titmouse!! You've seen him, and heard me speak of him often,
you know"----

"What!--that odious, nasty"----

"Hush, hush!" involuntarily exclaimed Tag-rag, with an apprehensive air--"That's all past and
gone--I was always a little too hard on him. Well, anyhow, he's turned up all of a sudden master
of ten thousand a-year. He has indeed--may this piece of toast choke me if he hasn't!"

Mrs. Tag-rag and her daughter sat in speechless wonder.

"Where did he see Tab, Taggy?" inquired at length Mrs. Tag-rag.

"Oh--I--I--why--you see--I don't exactly think that signifies so much--he will see her, you
know, next Sunday."

"So, then, he's positively coming?" inquired Mrs. Tag-rag, with a fluttered air.

"Y--e--s--I've no doubt."--(I'll discharge Lutestring to-morrow, thought Tag-rag, with a sharp
inward spasm.)

"But aren't we counting our chickens, Taggy, before they're hatched? If Titmouse is all of
a sudden become such a catch, he'll be snapped up in a minute, you know, of course"----

"Why, you see, Dolly--we're first in the market, I'm sure of that--his attorney tells me he's
to be kept quite snug and quiet under my care for months, and see no one"----

"My gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Tag-rag, holding up both her hands--"if that don't look like
a special interposition of Providence, now"----

"So I thought, Tabby, while Mr. Gammon was telling me!" replied her husband.

"Ah, Tag, there are many of 'em, if we were only to be on the look-out for them!" said Mrs.
Tag-rag, excitedly.

"I do see it all! It's designed by Providence to get them soon together! When once Mr. Titmouse
gets sight of Tabby, and gets into her company--eh! Tab, lovey! you'll do the rest, hem!" said
Tag-rag, fondly.

"La, pa! how you do go on!" simpered Miss Tag-rag.

"You must do your part, Tab," said her father--"we'll do ours. He'll bite, you may depend on
it, if you manage well!"

"What sort of a looking young man is he, dear pa?" inquired Miss Tag-rag, blushing, and her
heart fluttering very fast.

"Oh, you must have seen him, sweetest"----

"How should I ever notice any one of the lots of young men at the shop, pa?--I don't at all
know him."

"Well--he's the handsomest, most genteel-looking young fellow I ever came across; he's long
been an ornament to my establishment, for his good looks and civil and obliging manners--quite
a treasure! You should have seen how he took with the ladies of rank always!"----

"Dear me," interrupted Mrs. Tag-rag, anxiously addressing her daughter, "I hope, Tabby, that
Miss Nix will send home your lilac-colored frock by next Sunday!"

"If she don't, ma, I'll take care she never makes anything more for me, that's poz!" replied
Miss Tag-rag, earnestly.

"We'll call there to-morrow, love, and hurry her on," said her mother; and from that moment
until eleven o'clock, when the amiable and interesting trio retired to rest, nothing was talked
of but the charming Titmouse, and the good fortune he so richly deserved, and how long the
courtship was likely to last. Mrs. Tag-rag, who, for the last month or so, had always remained
on her knees before getting into bed, for at least ten minutes, on this eventful evening compressed
her prayers, I regret to say, into one minute and a half's time, (as for Tag-rag, a hardened
heathen, for all he had taken to hearing Mr. Horror, he always tumbled prayerless into bed,
the moment he was undressed;) while, for once in a way, Miss Tag-rag, having taken only five
minutes to put her hair into papers, popped into bed directly she had blown the candle out,
without saying any prayers--or even thinking of finishing the novel which lay under her pillow,
and which she had got on the sly from the circulating library of the late Miss Snooks. For
several hours she lay in a delicious revery, imagining herself become Mrs. Tittlebat Titmouse,
riding about Clapham in a handsome carriage, going to the play every night; and what would
the three Miss Knippses say when they heard of it?--they'd burst. And such a handsome man, too!

She sank, at length, into unconsciousness, amid a soft confusion of glistening white satin--favors--bridesmaids--Mrs.
Tittlebat Tit--Tit--Tit--Tit--mouse.

Titmouse, about half-past nine o'clock on the ensuing morning, was sitting in his little room
in a somewhat troubled humor, musing on many things, and little imagining the intense interest
he had excited in the feelings of the amiable occupants of Satin Lodge, when a knock at his
door startled him out of his revery. Guess his amazement to see, on opening it, Mr. Tag-rag!

"Your most obedient, sir," commenced that gentleman, in a subdued and obsequious manner, plucking
off his hat the instant that he saw Titmouse. "I hope you're better, sir!--Been very uneasy,
sir, about you."

"Please to walk in, sir," replied Titmouse, not a little flustered--"I'm better, sir, thank you."

"Happy to hear it, sir?--But am also come to offer humble apologies for the rudeness of that
upstart that was so rude to you yesterday, at my premises--know whom I mean, eh?--Lutestring--I
shall get rid of him, I do think"----

"Thank you, sir---- But--but--when I was in your employ"----

"Was in my employ!" interrupted Tag-rag, with a sigh, gazing earnestly at him--"It's no use
trying to hide it any longer! I've all along seen you was a world too good for--in fact, quite
above your situation in my poor shop! I may have been wrong, Mr. Titmouse," he continued diffidently,
as he placed himself on what seemed the only chair in the room, (Titmouse sitting on a common
wooden stool)--"but I did it for the best--eh?--don't you understand me, Mr. Titmouse?" Titmouse
continued looking on the floor incredulously, sheepishly, and somewhat sullenly.

"Very much obliged, sir," at length he answered--"but must say you've rather a funny way of
showing it, sir. Look at the sort of life you've led me for this"----

"Ah! knew you'd say so! But I can lay my hand on my heart, Mr. Titmouse, and declare to God--I
can, indeed, Mr. Titmouse"---- Titmouse preserved a very embarrassing silence.--"See I'm out
of your good books--But--won't you forget and forgive, Mr. Titmouse? I meant well. Nay, I humbly
beg forgiveness for everything you've not liked in me. Can I say more? Come, Mr. Titmouse,
you've a noble nature, and I ask forgiveness!" cried Tag-rag, softly and earnestly: you would
have thought that his life depended on his success in what he was doing!

"You--you ought to do it before the whole shop, if you're in earnest," replied Titmouse, a
little relenting--"for they've all seen your goings on."

"Them!--the brutes!--the vulgar fellows, eugh!--you and I, Mr. Titmouse, are a leetle above
such cattle as them! D' ye think we ought to mind what servants say?--Only you say the word,
and I make a clean sweep of 'em all; you shall have the premises to yourself, Mr. Titmouse,
within an hour after any of those chaps shows you the least glimmer of disrespect."

"Ah! I don't know--you've used me most uncommon bad, 'pon my soul!--far worse than they have--you've
nearly broke my heart, sir! You have!"

"Well, my womankind at home are right, after all! They told me all along I was going the wrong
way to work, when I said how I tried to keep your pride down, and prevent you from having your
head turned by knowing your good looks! Over and over again, my little girl has said, with
tears in her dear eyes, 'you'll break his spirit, dear papa--if he is handsome, wasn't it God
that made him so?'" The little frostwork which Titmouse had thrown around his heart, began
to melt like snow under sunbeams. "Ah, Mr. Titmouse, Mr. Titmouse! the women are always right,
and we're always wrong," continued Tag-rag, earnestly, perceiving his advantage. "Upon my soul
I could kick myself for my stupidity, and cruelty too!"

"Ah, I should think so! No one knows what I've suffered! And now," added Titmouse, suddenly,
"that I'm--I suppose you've heard it all, sir?--what's in the wind--and all that?"

"Yes, sir--Mr. Gammon (that most respectable gentleman) and I have had a long talk yesterday
about you, in which he did certainly tell me everything--nothing like confidence, Mr. Titmouse,
when gentleman meets gentleman, you know! Oh, Lord! the news is really delightful! delightful!"

"Isn't it, sir?" eagerly interrupted Titmouse, his eyes glistening with sudden rapture.

"Ah! ten thous--I must shake hands with you, my dear Mr. Titmouse;" quoth Tag-rag, with affectionate
excitement--and, for the first time in their lives, their hands touched, Tag-rag squeezing
that of Titmouse with energetic cordiality; while he added, with a little emotion in his tone--"Thomas
Tag-rag may be a plain-spoken and wrong-headed man, Mr. Titmouse--but he's a warm heart, I
assure you!"

"And did Mr. Gammon tell you all, sir?" eagerly interrupted Titmouse.

"Everything--everything; quite confidential, I assure you, for he saw the interest I felt in you!"

"And did he say about my--hem!--eh? my stopping a few weeks longer with you?" inquired Titmouse,
chagrin overspreading his features.

"I think he did, indeed, Mr. Titmouse! He's quite bent on it, sir! And so would any true friend
of yours be--because you see!"--here he dropped his voice, and looked very mysteriously at
Titmouse--"in short I quite agree with Mr. Gammon!"

"Do you indeed, sir?" exclaimed Titmouse, with rather an uneasy look.

"I do, i' faith! Why, they'd give thousands and thousands to get you out of the way--and what's
money to them? But they must look very sharp that get at you in the premises of Thomas Tag-rag,
I warrant 'em!--Talking of that, ah, ha!--it will be a funny thing to see you, Mr. Titmouse--Squire
Titmouse--ah, ha, ha!"

"You won't hardly expect me to go out with goods, I suppose, sir?" inquired Titmouse, somewhat
anxiously.

"Ha, ha, ha!--Ha, ha, ha!--Might as well ask me if I'd clean that beast Lutestring's shoes!
No, no, my dear Mr. Titmouse, you and I have done with each other as master and servant; it's
only as friends that we know each other now!--You may say and do whatever you like, and come
and go when and where you like!--It's true it will make my other hands rather jealous, and
get me into trouble; but what do I care? Suppose they do all give me warning for your sake?
Let 'em go, say I!" He snapped his fingers with an air of defiance. "Your looks and manners
would keep a shop full of customers--one Titmouse is worth a hundred of them."

"'Pon my soul, you speak most uncommon gentleman-like, sir, certainly!" said Titmouse, with
a little excitement--"and if you'd only always--but that's all past and gone; and I've no objections
to say at once, that all the articles I may want in your line I'll have at your establishment,
pay cash down, and ask for no discount. And I'll send all my friends, for, in course, sir,
you know I shall have lots of them!"

"Don't forget your oldest, your truest, your humblest friend, Mr. Titmouse," said Tag-rag,
with a cringing air.

"That I won't!" replied Titmouse, heatedly.

[It flashed across his mind that a true and old friend would be only too happy to do him some
such trifling service as to lend him a ten-pound note.]

"Hem!--Now, are you such a friend, Mr. Tag-rag?" cried he, sheepishly.

"Am I?--Can you doubt me? Try me! See what I would not do for you! Friend, indeed!" and he
looked quite fondly at Titmouse.

"Well, I believe you; sir! And the fact is, a--a--a--you see, Mr. Tag-rag, though all this
heap of money's coming to me, I'm precious low just now"----

"Ye--e--e--s, Mr. Titmouse," quoth Tag-rag, anxiously; his dull gray eye fixed on that of Titmouse
steadfastly.

"Well--if you've a mind to prove your words, Mr. Tag-rag, and don't mind advancing me a ten-pound
note"----

"Hem!" involuntarily uttered Tag-rag, so suddenly and violently, that it made Titmouse start.
Then Tag-rag's face flushed over; he twirled about his watch-key rapidly, and wriggled about
in his chair with visible agitation.

"Oh, you aren't going to do it! If so, you'd better say it at once," quoth Titmouse, rather
cavalierly.

"Why--was ever anything so unfortunate?" stammered Tag-rag. "That cursed lot of French goods
I bought only yesterday, to be paid for this very morning--and it will drain me of every penny!"

"Ah--yes! True! Well, it don't much signify," said Titmouse, carelessly, running his hand through
his bushy hair. "In fact, I needn't have bothered an old friend at all, now I think of it--Mr.
Gammon says he's my banker to any amount. I beg pardon, I'm sure"----

Tag-rag was in a horrid dilemma. He felt so flustered by the suddenness and seriousness of
the thing, that he could not see his way plain in any direction.

"Let me see," at length he stammered; and pulling a ready-reckoner out of his pocket, he affected
to be consulting it, as if to ascertain merely the state of his banker's account, but really
desiring a few moments' time to collect his thoughts. 'Twas in vain, however; nothing occurred
to him; he saw no way of escape; his old friend the devil deserted him for a moment--supplying
him with no ready lie to meet the exigency. He must, he feared, cash up! "Well," said he--"it
certainly is rather unfortunate, just at this precise moment; but I'll step to the shop, and
see how my ready-money matters stand. It sha'n't be a trifle, Mr. Titmouse, that shall stand
between us. But--if I should be hard run--perhaps--eh? Would a five-pound note do?"

"Why--a--a--certainly, if it wouldn't suit you to advance the ten"----

"I dare say," interrupted Tag-rag, a trifle relieved, "I shall be able to accommodate you so
far. Perhaps you'll step on to the shop presently, and then we can talk over matters!--By the
way, did you ever see anything so odd? forgot the main thing! Do come and take your mutton
with me at Clapham next Sunday--my womankind will be quite delighted. Nay, 'tis their invitation--ha,
ha!"

"You're uncommon polite," replied Titmouse, coloring with pleasure. Here seemed the first pale
primrose of the coming spring--an invitation to Satin Lodge!

"The politeness--the favor--will be yours, Mr. Titmouse! I'm uncommon proud of your coming!
We shall be quite alone! have you all to ourselves; only me, my wife, and daughter--an only
child, Mr. Titmouse--such a child! She's really often said to me, 'I wonder'--but,---- I won't
make you vain, eh? Shall I call it a fixture?"

"'Pon my life, Mr. Tag-rag, you're monstrous uncommon polite. It's true, I was going to dine
with Mr. Gammon"----

"Oh! pho! (I mean no disrespect, mind!) he's only a bachelor--I've got ladies in the case,
and all that--eh, Mr. Titmouse? and a young one!"

"Well, thank you, sir. Since you're so pressing"----

"That's it! An engagement, poz!--Satin Lodge--for Sunday next," said Tag-rag, rising and looking
at his watch. "Time for me to be off. See you soon at the shop? Soon arrange that little matter
of business, eh? You understand? Good-by! good-by!" and shaking Titmouse cordially by the hand,
Tag-rag took his departure. As he hurried on to his shop, he felt in a most painful perplexity
about this loan of five pounds. It was truly like squeezing five drops of blood out of his
heart. But what was to be done? Could he offend Titmouse? Where was he to stop, if he once
began? Dare he ask for security? Suppose the whole affair should after all turn into smoke?

Now, consider the folly of Tag-rag. Here was he in all this terrible pucker about advancing
five pounds on the strength of prospects and chances which he had deemed safe for adventuring
his daughter upon--her, the only object on earth, except money, that he regarded with anything
like sincere affection. How was this? The splendor of the future possible good fortune of his
daughter, might, perhaps, have dazzled and confused his perceptions. Then, again, that was
a remote contingent venture; but this sudden appeal to his pocket--the demand of an immediate
outlay and venture--was an instant pressure, and he felt it severely. Immediate profit was
everything to Tag-rag--'twas his very life's blood! He was, in truth, a tradesman to his heart's
core. If he could have seen the immediate quid pro quo, or could, at all events, have got,
if only by way of earnest, as it were, a bit of poor Titmouse's heart, and locked it up in
his desk, he would not have cared so much; it would have been a little in his line;--but here
was a FIVE-POUND NOTE going out forthwith, and nothing immediate, visible, palpable, replacing
it. Oh! Titmouse had unconsciously pulled Tag-rag's very heart-strings!

Observe, discriminating reader, that there is all the difference in the world between a TRADESMAN
and a MERCHANT; and, moreover, that it is not every tradesman that is a Tag-rag.

All these considerations combined to keep Tag-rag in a perfect fever of doubt and anxiety,
which several hearty curses (I regret to say) failed in effectually relieving. By the time,
however, that Titmouse had made his appearance at Mr. Tag-rag's shop, with a sufficiently sheepish
air, and was beginning to run the gantlet of grinning contempt from the "gents" on each side
of the shop, Tag-rag had determined on the course he should pursue in the very embarrassing
matter above referred to. To the inexpressible amazement of all present, he bolted out of a
little counting-house or side-room, hastened to meet Titmouse with outstretched hand and cordial
speech, drew him into his little room, and shut the door. There Tag-rag informed his flurried
young friend that he had made arrangements (with a little inconvenience, which, however, between
friends, signified nothing) for lending Titmouse five pounds.

"And, as life's uncertain, my dear Mr. Titmouse," said Tag-rag, as Titmouse, with ill-disguised
ecstasy, put the five-pound note into his pocket--"even between the dearest friends--eh? Understand?
It's not you I fear, nor you me, because we've confidence in each other. But if anything should
happen, those we leave behind us"---- Here he took out of his desk an "I. O. U. £5," ready
drawn up and dated--"a mere slip--a word or two--is satisfaction to both of us."

"Oh yes, sir! yes, sir!--anything!" said Titmouse; and hastily taking the pen proffered him,
signed his name, on which Tag-rag felt a little relieved. Lutestring was then summoned into
the room, and thus (not a little to his disgust and astonishment) addressed by his imperious
employer: "Mr. Lutestring, you will have the goodness to see that Mr. Titmouse, while he may
do me the honor to condescend to be here, is treated by every person in my establishment with
the utmost possible respect. Whoever treats this gentleman with the slightest disrespect isn't
any longer a servant of mine. D' ye hear me, Mr. Lutestring?" added Tag-rag, sternly, observing
a very significant glance of mingled hatred and wonder which Lutestring directed towards Titmouse.
"D' ye hear me, sir?"

"Oh, yes, sir! yes, sir! your orders shall be attended to," he replied in as insolent a tone
as he could venture upon, leaving the room with a half audible whistle of contempt, while a
grin overspread his features. Within five minutes he had filled, the mind of every shopman
in the establishment with feelings of mingled wonder, hatred, and fear towards Titmouse. What,
thought they, could have happened? What was Mr. Tag-rag about? This was all of a piece with
his rage at Lutestring the day before. "Cuss Titmouse! and Tag-rag too!" said or thought every
one of them!

Titmouse, for the remainder of the day, felt, as may be imagined, but little at his ease; for--to
say nothing of his insuperable repugnance to the discharge of any of his former duties--his
uneasiness under the oppressive civilities of Mr. Tag-rag; and the evident disgust towards
him entertained by his companions; many most important considerations arising out of recent
and coming events--his altering circumstances--were momentarily forcing themselves upon his
attention. The first of these was his hair; for Heaven seemed to have suddenly given him the
long-coveted means of changing its detested hue; and the next was an eyeglass, without which,
he had long felt his appearance and appointments to be painfully incomplete. Early in the afternoon,
therefore, on the readily admitted plea of important business, he obtained the permission of
the obsequious Mr. Tag-rag to depart for the day; and instantly directed his steps to the well-known
shop of a fashionable perfumer and perruquier, in Bond Street--well-known to those, at least,
who were in the habit of glancing at the enticing advertisements in the newspapers. Having
watched through the window till the coast was clear, (for he felt a natural delicacy in asking
for a hair-dye before people who could in an instant perceive his urgent occasion for it,)
he entered the shop, where a well-dressed gentleman was sitting behind the counter reading.
He was handsome; and his elaborately curled hair was of a heavenly black (so at least Titmouse
considered it) which was better than a thousand printed advertisements of the celebrated fluid
which formed the chief commodity there vended. Titmouse with a little hesitation, asked this
gentleman what was the price of their article "for turning light hair black"--and was answered--"only
seven and sixpence for the smaller-sized bottle." One was in a twinkling placed upon the counter,
where it lay like a miniature mummy, swathed, as it were, in manifold advertisements. "You'll
find the fullest directions within, and testimonials from the highest nobility to the wonderful
efficacy of the 'CYANOCHAITANTHROPOPOION.'"[12]

"Sure it will do, sir?" inquired Titmouse, anxiously.

"Is my hair dark enough to your taste, sir?" said the gentleman, with a calm and bland manner--"because
I owe it entirely to this invaluable specific."

"Do you, indeed, sir?" inquired Titmouse: adding with a sigh, "but, between ourselves, look
at mine!"--and, lifting off his hat for a moment, he exhibited a great crop of bushy, carroty hair.

"Whew! rather ugly that, sir!"--exclaimed the gentleman, looking very serious--"What a curse
it is to be born with such hair, isn't it?"

"'Pon my life I think so, sir!" answered Titmouse, mournfully; "and do you really say, sir,
that this what's-its-name turned yours of that beautiful black?"

"Think? 'Pon my honor, sir,--certain; no mistake, I assure you! I was fretting myself into
my grave about the color of my hair! Why, sir, there was a nobleman in here (I don't like to
mention names) the other day, with a head that seemed as if it had been dipped into water,
and then powdered with brick-dust; but--I assure you, the Cyanochaitanthropopoion was too much
for it--it turned black in a very short time. You should have seen his lordship's ecstasy--[the
speaker saw that Titmouse would swallow anything; so he went on with a confident air]--and
in a month's time he had married a beautiful woman whom he had loved from a child, but who
had vowed she could never bring herself to marry a man with such a head of hair."

"How long does it take to do all this, sir?" interrupted Titmouse, eagerly, with a beating heart.

"Sometimes two--sometimes three days. In four days' time, I'll answer for it, your most intimate
friend would not know you. My wife did not know me for a long while, and wouldn't let me salute
her--ha, ha!" Here another customer entered; and Titmouse, laying down the five-pound note
he had squeezed out of Tag-rag, put the wonder-working bottle into his pocket, and on receiving
his change, departed, bursting with eagerness to try the effects of the Cyanochaitanthropopoion.
Within half an hour's time he might have been seen driving a hard bargain with a pawnbroker
for a massive-looking eyeglass, upon which, as it hung suspended in the window, he had for
months cast a longing eye; and he eventually purchased it (his eyesight, I need hardly say,
was perfect) for only fifteen shillings. After taking a hearty dinner in a little dusky eating-house
in Rupert Street, frequented by fashionable-looking foreigners, with splendid heads of curling
hair and mustaches, he hastened home, eager to commence the grand experiment. Fortunately,
he was undisturbed that evening. Having lit his candle, and locked his door, with tremulous
fingers he opened the papers enveloping the little bottle; and glancing over their contents,
got so inflamed with the numberless instances of its efficacy, detailed in brief but glowing
terms--as--the "Duke of....--the Countess of....--the Earl of, &c. &c. &c. &c.--the lovely
Miss----, the celebrated Sir Little Bull's-eye, (who was so gratified that he allowed his name
to be used)--all of whom, from having hair of the reddest possible description, were now possessed
of raven-hued locks"--that he threw down the paper, and hurriedly got the cork out of the bottle.
Having turned up his coat-cuffs, he commenced the application of the Cyanochaitanthropopoion,
rubbing it into his hair, eyebrows, and whiskers, with all the energy he was capable of, for
upwards of half an hour. Then he read over again every syllable on the papers in which the
bottle had been wrapped; and about eleven o'clock, having given sundry curious glances at the
glass, got into bed, full of exciting hopes and delightful anxieties concerning the success
of the great experiment he was trying. He could not sleep for several hours. He dreamed a rapturous
dream--that he bowed to a gentleman with coal-black hair, whom he fancied he had seen before--and
suddenly discovered that he was only looking at himself in a glass!!--This awoke him. Up he
jumped--sprang to his little glass breathlessly--but ah! merciful Heavens! he almost dropped
down dead! His hair was perfectly green--there could be no mistake about it. He stood staring
in the glass in speechless horror, his eyes and mouth distended to their utmost, for several
minutes. Then he threw himself on the bed, and felt fainting. Out he presently jumped again,
in a kind of ecstasy--rubbed his hair desperately and wildly about--again looked into the glass--there
it was, rougher than before; but eyebrows, whiskers, and head--all were, if anything, of a
more vivid and brilliant green. Despair came over him. What had all his past troubles been
to this?--what was to become of him? He got into bed again, and burst into a perspiration.
Two or three times he got into and out of bed, to look at himself--on each occasion deriving
only more terrible confirmation than before, of the disaster which had befallen him. After
lying still for some minutes, he got out of bed, and kneeling down, tried to say his prayers;
but it was in vain--and he rose half choked. It was plain he must have his head shaved, and
wear a wig, which would be making an old man of him at once. Getting more and more disturbed
in his mind, he dressed himself, half determined on starting off to Bond Street, and breaking
every pane of glass in the shop window of the infernal impostor who had sold him the liquid
which had so frightfully disfigured him. As he stood thus irresolute, he heard the step of
Mrs. Squallop approaching his door, and recollected that he had ordered her to bring up his
tea-kettle about that time. Having no time to take his clothes off, he thought the best thing
he could do, would be, to pop into bed again, draw his nightcap down to his ears and eyebrows,
pretend to be asleep, and, turning his back towards the door, have a chance of escaping the
observation of his landlady. No sooner thought of, than done. Into bed he jumped, and drew
the clothes over him--not aware, however, that in his hurry he had left his legs, with boots
and trousers on, exposed to view--an unusual spectacle to his landlady, who had, in fact, scarcely
ever known him in bed at so late an hour before. He lay as still as a mouse. Mrs. Squallop,
after glancing with surprise at his legs, happening to direct her eyes towards the window,
beheld a small bottle standing there--only half of whose dark contents were remaining. Oh gracious!--of
course it must be POISON, and Mr. Titmouse must be dead!--In a sudden fright she dropped the
kettle, plucked the clothes off the trembling Titmouse, and cried out--"Oh, Mr. Titmouse! Mr.
Titmouse! what have you been"----

"Well, ma'am, what the devil do you mean? How dare you"---- commenced Titmouse, suddenly sitting
up, and looking furiously at Mrs. Squallop. An inconceivably strange and horrid figure he looked.
He had all his day clothes on; a white cotton nightcap was drawn down to his very eyes, like
a man going to be hanged; his face was very pale, and his whiskers were of a bright green color.

"Lard a-mighty!" exclaimed Mrs. Squallop, faintly, the moment that this strange apparition
had presented itself; and sinking on the chair, she pointed with a dismayed air to the ominous-looking
object standing on the window shelf. Titmouse thence inferred that she had found out the true
state of the case. "Well--isn't it an infernal shame, Mrs. Squallop?" said he, getting off
the bed; and, plucking off his nightcap, he exhibited the full extent of his misfortune. "What
d'ye think of that!" he exclaimed, staring wildly at her. Mrs. Squallop gave a faint shriek,
turned her head aside, and motioned him away.

"I shall go mad--I SHALL!" cried Titmouse, tearing his green hair.

"Oh Lord!--oh Lord!" groaned Mrs. Squallop, evidently expecting him to leap upon her. Presently,
however, she a little recovered her presence of mind; and Titmouse, stuttering with fury, explained
to her what had taken place. As he went on, Mrs. Squallop became less and less able to control
herself, and at length burst into a fit of convulsive laughter, and sat holding her hands to
her fat shaking sides, and appearing likely to tumble off her chair. Titmouse was almost on
the point of striking her! At length, however, the fit went off; and wiping her eyes, she expressed
the greatest commiseration for him, and proposed to go down and fetch up some soft soap and
flannel, and try what "a good hearty wash would do." Scarce sooner said than done--but, alas,
in vain! Scrub, scrub--lather, lather, did they both; but, the instant that the soap-suds had
been washed off, there was the head as green as ever!

"Oh, murder, murder! what am I to do, Mrs. Squallop?" groaned Titmouse, having taken another
look at himself in the glass.

"Why--really I'd be off to a police-office, and have 'em all taken up, if as how I was you!"
quoth Mrs. Squallop.

"No--See if I don't take that bottle, and make the fellow that sold it me swallow what's left--and
I'll smash in his shop front besides!"

"Oh, you won't--you mustn't--not on no account! Stop at home a bit, and be quiet; it may go
off with all this washing, in the course of the day. Soft soap is an uncommon strong thing
for getting colors out--but--a--a--excuse me now, Mr. Titmouse"--said Mrs. Squallop, seriously--"why
wasn't you satisfied with the hair God Almighty had given you? D' ye think He didn't know a
deal better than you what was best for you? I'm blest if I don't think this is a judgment on
you, when one comes to consider!"

"What's the use of your standing preaching to me in this way, Mrs. Squallop?" said Titmouse,
first with amazement, and then with fury in his manner--"A'n't I half mad without it? Judgment
or no judgment--where's the harm of my wanting black hair any more than black trousers? That
a'n't your own hair, Mrs. Squallop--you're as gray as a badger underneath--'pon my soul! I've
often remarked it--I have, 'pon my soul!"

"I'll tell you what, Mr. Himperance!" furiously exclaimed Mrs. Squallop, "you're a liar! And
you deserve what you've got! It is a judgment, and I hope it will stick by you--so take that
for your sauce, you vulgar fellow!" (snapping her fingers at him.) "Get rid of your green hair
if you can! It's only carrot tops instead of carrot roots--and some likes one, some the other--ha!
ha! ha!"

"I'll tell you what, Mrs. Squ"---- he commenced, but she had gone, having slammed to the door
behind her with all her force; and Titmouse was left alone in a half frantic state, in which
he continued for nearly two hours. Once again he read over the atrocious puffs which had over-night
inflated him to such a degree, and he now saw that they were all lies. This is a sample of them:

     "This divine fluid (as it was enthusiastically styled to the
     inventor, by the lovely Duchess of Dunderwhistle) possesses the
     inestimable and astonishing quality of changing hair, of whatever
     color, to a dazzling jet-black; at the same time imparting to it a
     rich glossy appearance, which wonderfully contributes to the
     imposing tout-ensemble presented by those who use it. That
     well-known ornament of the circle of fashion, the young and lovely
     Mrs. Fitzfrippery, owned to the proprietor that to this surprising
     fluid it was that she was indebted for those unrivalled raven
     ringlets which attracted the eyes of envying and admiring crowds,"
     and so forth.

A little farther on:--

     "This exquisite effect is not in all cases produced
     instantaneously; much will of course depend (as the celebrated M.
     Dupuytren, of the Hôtel Dieu, at Paris, informed the inventor) on
     the physical idiosyncrasy of the party using it, with reference to
     the constituent particles of the coloring matter constituting the
     fluid in the capillary vessels. Often a single application suffices
     to change the most hopeless-looking head of red hair to as deep a
     black; but, not unfrequently, the hair passes through intermediate
     shades and tints--all, however, ultimately settling into a deep
     and permanent black."

This passage not a little revived the drooping spirits of Titmouse. Accidentally, however,
an asterisk at the last word in the above sentence, directed his eye to a note at the bottom
of the page, printed in such minute type as would have baffled any but the strongest sight
and most determined eye to read, and which said note was the following:--

     "Though cases do, undoubtedly, occasionally occur, in which the
     native inherent indestructible qualities of the hair defy all
     attempts at change or even modification, and resist even this
     potent remedy: of which, however, in all his experience" (the
     wonderful specific has been invented for about six months) "the
     inventor has known but very few instances."

But to this exceedingly select class of unfortunate incurables, poor Titmouse, alas! entertained
a dismal suspicion that he belonged.

"Look, sir! Look! Only look here what your cussed stuff has done to my hair!" said Titmouse,
on presenting himself soon after to the gentleman who had sold him the infernal liquid; and,
taking off his hat, exposed his green hair. The gentleman, however, did not appear at all surprised,
or discomposed.

"Ah--yes! I see--I see. You're in the intermediate stage. It differs in different people"----

"Differs, sir! I'm going mad! I look like a green monkey--Cuss me if I don't!"

"In me, now," replied the gentleman, with a matter-of-fact air, "the color was a strong yellow.
But have you read the explanations that are given in the wrapper?"

"Read 'em?" echoed Titmouse, furiously--"I should think so? Much good they do me! Sir, you're
a humbug!--an impostor! I'm a sight to be seen for the rest of my life! Look at me, sir! Eyebrows,
whiskers, and all!"

"Rather a singular appearance, just at present, I must own," said the gentleman, his face turning
suddenly red all over with the violent effort he was making to prevent an explosion of laughter.
He soon, however, recovered himself, and added coolly--"If you'll only persevere"----

"Persevere be d----d!" interrupted Titmouse, violently clapping his hat on his head, "I'll
teach you to persevere in taking in the public! I'll have a warrant out against you in no time!"

"Oh, my dear sir, I'm accustomed to all this!" said the gentleman, coolly.

"The--devil--you--are!" gasped Titmouse, quite aghast.

"Oh, often--often, while the liquid is performing the first stage of the change; but, in a
day or two afterwards, the parties generally come back smiling into my shop, with heads as
black as crows!"

"No! But really--do they, sir?" interrupted Titmouse, drawing a long breath.

"Hundreds, I may say thousands, my dear sir! And one lady gave me a picture of herself, in
her black hair, to make up for her abuse of me when it was in a puce color--Fact, honor!"

"But do you recollect any one's hair turning green, and then getting black?" inquired Titmouse,
with trembling anxiety.

"Recollect any? Fifty at least. For instance, there was Lord Albert Addlehead--but why should
I mention names? I know hundreds! But everything is honor and confidential here!"

"And did Lord what's-his-name's hair grow green, and then black; and was it at first as light
as mine?"

"His hair was redder, and in consequence it became greener, and now is blacker than ever yours
will be."

"Well, if I and my landlady have this morning used an ounce, we've used a quarter of a pound
of soft soap in"----

"Soft soap!--soft soap!" cried out the gentleman, with an air of sudden alarm--"That explains
all," (he forgot how well it had been already explained by him.) "By Heavens, sir!--soft soap!
You may have ruined your hair forever!" Titmouse opened his eyes and mouth with a start of
terror, it not occurring to his astute mind that the intolerable green had preceded, not followed,
the use of the soft soap. "Go home, my dear sir! God bless you--go home, as you value your
hair; take this small bottle of DAMASCUS CREAM, and rub it in before it's too late; and then
use the remainder of the"----

"Then you don't think it's already too late?" inquired Titmouse, faintly; and, having been
assured to the contrary--having asked the price of the Damascus cream, which was "only three-and-sixpence,"
(stamp included)--he purchased and paid for it with a rueful air, and took his departure. He
sneaked homeward along the streets with the air of a pickpocket, fearful that every one he
met was an officer who had his eye on him. He was not, in fact, very far off the mark; for
many a person smiled, and stared, and turned round to look at him as he went along.

CHAPTER VI.

Titmouse slunk up-stairs to his room in a sad state of depression, and spent the next hour
in rubbing into his hair the Damascus cream. He rubbed till he could hardly hold his arms up
any longer, from sheer fatigue. Having risen at length to mark, from the glass, the progress
he had made, he found that the only result of his persevering exertions had been to give a
greasy shining appearance to the hair, which remained green as ever. With a half-uttered groan
he sank down upon a chair, and fell into a sort of abstraction, which was interrupted by a
sharp knock at his door. Titmouse started up, trembled, and stood for a moment or two irresolute,
glancing fearfully at the glass; and then, opening the door, let in--Mr. Gammon, who started
back a pace or two, as if he had been shot, on catching sight of the strange figure of Titmouse.
It was useless for Gammon to try to check his laughter; so, leaning against the door-post,
he yielded to the impulse, and laughed without intermission for nearly a couple of minutes.
Titmouse felt desperately angry, but feared to show it; and the timid, rueful, lackadaisical
air with which he regarded the dreaded Mr. Gammon, only prolonged and aggravated the agonies
of that gentleman. When at length he had a little recovered himself, holding his left hand
to his side, with an exhausted air, he entered the little apartment, and asked Titmouse what
in the name of heaven he had been doing to himself: "Without this" (in the absurd slang of
the lawyers) that he suspected most vehemently, all the while, what Titmouse had been about;
but he wished to hear Titmouse's own account of the matter!--Titmouse, not daring to hesitate,
complied--Gammon listening in an agony of suppressed laughter. He looked as little at Titmouse
as he could, and was growing a trifle more sedate, when Titmouse, in a truly lamentable tone,
inquired, "What's the good, Mr. Gammon, of ten thousand a-year with such a horrid head of hair
as this?" On hearing which Gammon jumped off his chair, started to the window, and laughed
for one or two minutes without ceasing. This was too much for Titmouse, who presently cried
aloud in a lamentable manner; and Gammon, suddenly ceasing his laughter, turned round and apologized
in the most earnest manner; after which he uttered an abundance of sympathy for the sufferings
which "he deplored being unable to alleviate." He even restrained himself when Titmouse again
and again asked if he could not "have the law" of the man who had so imposed on him. Gammon
diverted the thoughts of his suffering client, by taking from his pocket some very imposing
packages of paper, tied round with red tape. From time to time, however, he almost split his
nose with efforts to restrain his laughter, on catching a fresh glimpse of poor Titmouse's
emerald hair. Mr. Gammon was a man of business, however; and in the midst of all this distracting
excitement, contrived to get Titmouse's signature to sundry papers of no little consequence;
among others, first, to a bond conditioned for the payment of £500; secondly, another for £10,000;--both
to Caleb Quirk, gentleman; and lastly, an agreement (of which he gave Titmouse an alleged copy)
by which Titmouse, in consideration of Messrs. Quirk, Gammon, and Snap using their best exertions
to put him in possession of the estate, &c. &c., bound himself to conform to their wishes in
everything, on pain of their instantly throwing up the whole affair, looking out for another
heir at law (!) and issuing execution forthwith against Titmouse for all expenses incurred
under his retainer. I said that Gammon gave his confiding client an alleged copy of this agreement;--it
was not a real copy, for certain stipulations appeared in each, which were not intended to
appear in the other, for reasons which were perfectly satisfactory to--Messrs. Quirk, Gammon,
and Snap. When Gammon had got to this point, he thought it the fitting opportunity for producing
a second five-pound note. He did so, and put Titmouse thereby into an ecstasy, which pushed
out of his head for a while all recollection of what had happened to the outside of it. He
had at that moment nearly eleven pounds in hard cash. Gammon easily obtained from him an account
of his little money transactions with Huckaback--of which, however, all he could tell was--that
for ten shillings down, he had given a written engagement to pay fifty pounds on getting the
estate. Of this Gammon made a careful memorandum, explaining to Titmouse the atrocious villany
of Huckaback--and, in short, that if he (Titmouse) did not look very sharply about him, he
would be robbed right and left; so that it was of the utmost consequence to him early to learn
how to distinguish between false and true friends. Gammon went on to assure him that the instrument
which he had given to Huckaback, was probably, in point of law, not worth a farthing, on the
ground of its being both fraudulent and usurious; and intimated something, which Titmouse did
not very distinctly comprehend, about the efficacy of a bill in equity for a discovery; which--merely
to expose villany--at a very insignificant expense, (not exceeding £100,) would enable the
plaintiff in equity to put the defendant in equity, (i. e. Huckaback,) in the way of declaring,
on his solemn oath, that he had advanced the full sum of £50; and having obtained this important
and satisfactory result, Titmouse would have the opportunity of disproving the statement of
Huckaback--if he could: which of course he could not. By this process, however, a little profitable
employment would have been afforded to a certain distinguished firm in Saffron Hill--and that
was something--to Gammon.

"But, by the way, talking of money," said Titmouse, suddenly, "you can't think how surprising
handsome Mr. Tag-rag has behaved to me!"

"Indeed, my dear sir!" exclaimed Gammon, with real curiosity, "what has he done?"

"Advanced to me five pounds--all of his own head!"

"Are you serious, Mr. Titmouse?" inquired Gammon.

Titmouse produced the change which he had obtained for Tag-rag's five-pound note, minus only
the prices of the Cyanochaitanthropopoion, the Damascus cream, and the eyeglass. Gammon merely
stroked his chin in a thoughtful manner. So occupied, indeed, was he with his reflections,
that though his eye was fixed on the ludicrous figure of Titmouse, which so shortly before
had occasioned him such paroxysms of laughter, he did not feel the least inclination even to
a smile. Tag-rag advance Titmouse five pounds! A-hem!--Throwing as much smiling indifference
into his manner as was possible, he asked Titmouse the particulars of so strange a transaction.
Titmouse answered (how truly the reader can judge) that Mr. Tag-rag had, in the very handsomest
way, volunteered the loan of five pounds; and moreover offered him any further sum he might
require!

"What a charming change, Mr. Titmouse!" exclaimed Gammon, with a watchful eye and anxious smile.

"Most delightful, 'pon my soul!"

"Rather sudden, too!--eh?--Mr. Titmouse?"

"Why--no--no; I should say, 'pon my life, certainly not. The fact is, we've long misunderstood
each other. He's had an uncommon good opinion of me all the while--people have tried to set
him against me; but it's no use, he's found them out--he told me so! And he's not only said,
but done the handsome thing! He's turned up, by Jove, a trump all of a sudden--though it's
long looked an ugly card, to be sure!"

"Ha, ha, ha!--very!--how curious!" exclaimed Mr. Gammon, mechanically; revolving several important
matters in his mind.

"I'm going, too, to dine at Satin Lodge, Mr. Tag-rag's country house, next Sunday."

"Indeed! It will be quite a change for you, Mr. Titmouse!"

"Yes, it will, by Jove; and--a--a--what's more--there's--hem!--you understand?"

"Go on, I beg, my dear Mr. Titmouse"----

"There's a lady in the case--not that she's said anything; but a nod's as good as a wink to
a blind horse--eh? Mr. Gammon?"

"I should think so--Miss Tag-rag will have money, of course?"

"You've hit it! Lots! But I've not made up my mind."

[I'd better undeceive this poor devil at once, as to this sordid wretch Tag-rag, (thought Gammon,)
otherwise the cunning old rogue may get a very mischievous hold upon him! And a lady in the
case! The old scamp has a daughter! Whew! this will never do! The sooner I enlighten my young
friend the better--though at a little risk.]

"It's very important to be able to tell who are real and who false friends, as I was saying
just now, my dear Titmouse," said Gammon, seriously.

"I think so. Now look for instance, there's that fellow Huckaback. I should say he"----

"Pho! pho! my dear sir, a mere beetle--he's not worth thinking of, one way or the other. But
can't you guess another sham friend, who has changed so suddenly?"

"Do you mean Mr. Tag-rag--eh?"

"I mention no names; but it's rather odd, that when I am speaking of hollow-hearted friends,
you should at once name Mr. Tag-rag--ah, ha, Mr. Titmouse!"

"The proof of the pudding--handsome is that handsome does; and I've got £5 of his money, at
any rate."

"Of course he took no security for such a trifle, between such very close friends?"

"Oh--why--now you mention it--But 'twas only a line--one line--a mere mem. betwixt two gents--and
I noticed it had no stamp!"

"I guessed as much, my dear sir," interrupted Gammon, calmly, with a significant smile--"Tag-rag
and Huckaback are quite on a par--a brace of worthies--ah, ha, ha! My dear Titmouse, you are
too honest and confiding!"

"What keen eyes you lawyers have to be sure! Well--I never"--said Titmouse, looking very grave--for
he was evidently somewhat staggered. "I--I--must say," he presently added, looking gratefully
at Gammon, "I think I do now know of a true friend, that sent me two five-pound notes, and
never asked for any security."

"My dear sir, you really pain me by alluding to such a matter!"

[Oh, Gammon, is not this too bad? What are the papers which you know are now in your pocket,
signed only this very evening by Titmouse?]

"You are not a match for Tag-rag, Mr. Titmouse; because he was made for a tradesman--you are
not. Do you think he would have parted with his £5 but for value received? Oh, Tag-rag! Tag-rag!"

"I--I really begin to think, Mr. Gammon--'pon my soul, I do think you're right."

"Think!--why--for a man of your acuteness--how could he imagine you could forget the long course
of insult and tyranny which you have endured under him: that he should change all of a sudden--just
now, when"----

"Ay, by Jove! just when I'm coming into my property," interrupted Titmouse, quickly.

"To be sure--to be sure! just now, I say, to make this sudden change! Bah! bah!"

"I hate Tag-rag, and always did. Now he's trying to take me in, just as he does everybody;
but I've found him out; I won't lay out a penny with him!"

"Would you, do you think, ever have seen the inside of Satin Lodge, if you hadn't"----

"Why, I don't know; I really think--hem!"

"Would you, my dear sir?--But now a scheme occurs to me--a very amusing idea indeed! Ah, ha,
ha!--Shall I tell you a way of proving to his own face how insincere and interested he is towards
you? Go to dinner by all means, eat his good things, hear all that the whole set of them have
to say, and just before you go, (it will require you to have your wits about you,) pretend,
with a long face, that our affair is all a bottle of smoke: say that Messrs. Quirk, Gammon,
and Snap have told you the day before that they had made a horrid mistake, and you were the
wrong man"----

"'Pon my life, I--I--really," stammered Titmouse "daren't--I couldn't--I couldn't keep it up--he'd
half kill me. Besides, there will be Miss Tag-rag--it would be the death of her, I know."

"Miss Tag-rag! Gracious Heavens! What on earth can you have to do with her? You--why, if you
really succeed in getting this fine property, she might make a very suitable wife for one of
your grooms--ah, ha!--But for you--absurd!"

"Ah! I don't know--she may be a devilish fine girl, and the old fellow will have a tolerable
penny to leave her--and a bird in the hand--eh? Besides, I know what she's all along thought--hem!--but
that doesn't signify."

"Pho! pho! Ridiculous! Ha, ha, ha! Fancy Miss Tag-rag Mrs. Titmouse! Your eldest son--ah, ha,
ha! Tag-rag Titmouse, Esq. Delightful! Your honored father a draper in Oxford Street!" All
this might be very clever, but it did not seem to tell upon Titmouse, whose little heart had
been reached by a cunning hint of Tag-rag's concerning his daughter's flattering estimate of
Titmouse's personal appearance. The reason why Gammon attacked so seriously a matter which
appeared so chimerical and preposterous, was this--that according to his present plan, Titmouse
was to remain for some considerable while at Tag-rag's, and might, with his utter weakness
of character, be worked upon by Tag-rag and his daughter, and get inveigled into an engagement
which might be productive hereafter of no little embarrassment. Gammon succeeded, however,
at length, in obtaining Titmouse's promise to adopt his suggestion, and thereby discover the
true nature of the feelings entertained towards him at Satin Lodge. He shook Titmouse energetically
by the hand, and left him perfectly certain that if there was one person in the world worthy
of his esteem, and even reverence, that person was OILY GAMMON, ESQ.

As he bent his steps towards Saffron Hill, he reflected rather anxiously on several matters
which had occurred to him during the interview which I have just described. On reaching the
office, he was presently closeted with Mr. Quirk, to whom, first and foremost, he exhibited
and delivered the documents to which he had obtained Titmouse's signature, and which, the reader
will allow me to assure him, were of a somewhat different texture from a certain legal instrument
or security which I laid before him some little time ago.

"Now, Gammon," said the old gentleman, as soon as he had locked up in his safe the above-mentioned
documents--"Now, Gammon, I think we may be up and at 'em; load our guns, and blaze away," and
he rubbed his hands.

"Perhaps so, Mr. Quirk," replied Gammon; "but we must, for no earthly consideration, be premature
in our operations! Let me, by the way, tell you one or two little matters that have just happened
to Titmouse!"--Then he told Mr. Quirk of the effects which had followed the use of the potent
Cyanochaitanthropopoion, at which old Quirk almost laughed himself into fits. When, however,
Gammon, with a serious air, mentioned the name of Miss Tag-rag, and his grave suspicions concerning
her, Quirk bounced up out of his chair, almost startling Gammon out of his. If Mr. Quirk had
just been told that his banker had broken, he could scarce have shown more emotion.

The fact was, that he, too, had a DAUGHTER--an only child--Miss Quirk--whom he had destined
to become Mrs. Titmouse.

"A designing old villain!" he exclaimed at length, and Gammon agreed with him; but strange
to say, with all his acuteness, never adverted to the real cause of Quirk's sudden and vehement
exclamation. When Gammon told him of the manner in which he had opened Titmouse's eyes to the
knavery of Tag-rag, and the expedient he had suggested for its complete demonstration to Titmouse,
Quirk could have worshipped Gammon, and could not help rising and shaking him very energetically
by the hand, much to his astonishment. After a long consultation, they determined to look out
fresh lodgings for Titmouse, and remove him presently altogether from the company and influence
of Tag-rag. Some time after they had parted, Mr. Quirk came with an eager air into Mr. Gammon's
room, with a most important suggestion; viz. whether it would not be possible for them to get
Tag-rag to become a surety to them, by and by, on behalf of Titmouse? Gammon was delighted!--He
heartily commended Mr. Quirk's sagacity, and promised to turn it about in his thoughts very
carefully. Not having been let entirely into Quirk's policy, (of which the reader has, however,
just had a glimpse,) Mr. Gammon did not see the difficulties which kept Quirk awake almost
all that night; viz. how to protect Titmouse from the machinations of Tag-rag and his daughter,
and yet keep Tag-rag sufficiently interested in, and intimate with, Titmouse, to entertain,
by and by, the idea of becoming surety for him to them, the said Messrs. Quirk, Gammon, and
Snap; and--withal--how to manage Titmouse all the while, so as to forward their objects, and
also that of turning his attention towards Miss Quirk; all this formed really rather a difficult
problem!--Quirk looked down on Tag-rag with honest indignation, as a mean and mercenary fellow,
whose unprincipled schemes, thank Heaven! he already saw through, and from which he resolved
to rescue his innocent and confiding client, who was made for better things--to wit, Miss Quirk.

When Titmouse rose the next morning, (Saturday,) behold--he found his hair had become of a
variously shaded purple or violet color! Astonishment and apprehension by turns possessed him,
as he stared into the glass, at this unlooked-for change of color; and hastily dressing himself,
after swallowing a very slight breakfast, off he went once more to the scientific establishment
in Bond Street, to which he had been indebted for his recent delightful experiences. The distinguished
inventor and proprietor of the Cyanochaitanthropopoion was behind the counter as usual--calm
and confident as ever.

"Ah! I see--as I said! as I said!" quoth he, with a sort of glee in his manner. "Isn't it?--coming
round quicker than usual--Really, I'm selling more of the article than I can possibly make."

"Well,"--at length said Titmouse, as soon as he had recovered from the surprise occasioned
by the sudden volubility with which he had been assailed on entering--"then is it really going
on tolerable well?" taking off his hat, and looking anxiously into a glass that hung close by.

"Tolerable well, my dear sir! Delightful! Perfect! Couldn't be better! If you'd studied the
thing, you'd know, sir, that purple is the middle color between green and black. Indeed, black's
only purple and green mixed, which explains the whole thing!" Titmouse listened with infinite
satisfaction to this unanswerable and truly philosophical account of the matter.

"Remember, sir--my hair is to come like yours--eh? you recollect, sir? Honor--that was the
bargain, you know!"

"I have very little doubt of it, sir--nay, I am certain of it, knowing it by experience."

[The scamp had been hired expressly for the purpose of lying thus in support of the Cyanochaitanthropopoion;
his own hair being a natural black.]

"I'm going to a grand dinner to-morrow, sir," said Titmouse, "with some devilish great people
at the west end of the town--eh? you understand? will it do by that time? Would give a trifle
to get my hair a shade darker by that time--for--hem!--most lovely gal--eh? you understand
the thing?--devilish anxious, and all that sort of thing, you know!"

"Yes--I do," replied the gentleman of the shop, in a confidential tone; and opening one of
the glass doors behind him, took out a bottle considerably larger than the first, and handed
it to Titmouse. "This," said he, "will complete the thing; it combines chemically with the
purple particles, and the result is--generally arrived at in about two days' time"----

"But it will do something in a night's time--eh!--surely."

"I should think so! But here it is--it is called the TETARAGMENON ABRACADABRA."

"What a name!" exclaimed Titmouse, with a kind of awe. "'Pon honor, it almost takes one's breath
away"----

"It will do more, sir; it will take your red hair away! By the way, only the day before yesterday,
a lady of high rank, (between ourselves, Lady Caroline Carrot,) whose red hair always seemed
as if it would have set her bonnet in a blaze--ha, ha!--came here, after two days' use of the
Cyanochaitanthropopoion, and one day's use of this Tetaragmenon Abracadabra--and asked me if
I knew her. Upon my soul I did not, till she solemnly assured me she was really Lady Caroline!"

"How much is it?" eagerly inquired Titmouse, thrusting his hand into his pocket, with no little
excitement.

"Only nine-and-sixpence."

"Oh, my stars, what a price! Nine-and-six"----

"Ah, but would you have believed it, sir? This extraordinary fluid cost a great German chemist
his whole life to bring to perfection; and it contains expensive materials from all the four
corners of the world! It's ruined the proprietor long ago!"

"That may be--but really--I've laid out a large figure with you, sir, this day or two! Couldn't
you say eight sh"----

"We never abate, sir; it's not our style of doing business," replied the gentleman, in a manner
that quite overawed poor Titmouse, who at once bought this, the third abomination; not a little
depressed, however, at the heavy prices which he had paid for the three bottles, and the uncertainty
he felt as to the ultimate issue. That night he was so well satisfied with the progress which
he was making with his hair, (for, by candle light, it really looked much darker than could
have been expected,) that he resolved--at all events for the present--to leave well alone;
or at the utmost, to try the effects of the Tetaragmenon Abracadabra only upon his eyebrows
and whiskers. Into them he rubbed the new specific; which, on the bottle being opened, surprised
him in two respects: first, it was perfectly colorless; secondly, it had a most infernal smell.
It was, however, no use hesitating: he had bought and paid for it; and the papers in which
it was folded gave an account of its success that was really irresistible and unquestionable.
Away, therefore, he rubbed; and when he had finished, got into bed, in humble hope as to the
result, which would be disclosed by the morning's light. But, alas! would you have believed
it? When he looked at himself in the glass, about six o'clock on the ensuing morning, (at which
hour he awoke,) I protest it is a fact, that his eyebrows and whiskers were as white as snow;
which, combined with the purple color of the hair on his head, rendered him one of the most
astounding objects (in human shape) the eye of man had ever beheld. There was the wisdom of
age seated in his white eyebrows and whiskers, unspeakable youthful folly in his features,
and a purple crown of WONDER on his head.

Really, it seemed as if the devil were wreaking his spite on Mr. Titmouse; nay, perhaps it
was the devil himself who had served him with the bottles in Bond Street. Or was it a mere
ordinary servant of the devil--some greedy, impudent, unprincipled speculator, who, desirous
of acting on the approved maxim--Fiat experimentum in corpore vili--had pitched on Titmouse
(seeing the sort of person he was) as a godsend, quite reckless what effect might be produced
on his hair, so as the stuff were paid for, and its effects noted? It might possibly have been
sport to the gentleman of the shop, but it was near proving death to poor Titmouse, who might
possibly have resolved on throwing himself out of the window, only that he saw it was not big
enough for a baby to get through. He turned aghast at the monstrous object which his little
glass presented to him; and sank down upon the bed with the feeling that he was now fit for
death. As before, Mrs. Squallop made her appearance with his kettle for breakfast. He was sitting
at the table dressed, and with his arms folded, with a reckless air, not at all caring to conceal
the new and still more frightful change which he had undergone since she saw him last. Mrs.
Squallop stared at him for a second or two in silence; then, stepping back out of the room,
suddenly drew to the door, and stood outside, laughing vehemently.

"I'll kick you down-stairs!" shouted Titmouse, rushing to the door pale with fury, and pulling
it open.

"Mr.--Mr.--Titmouse, you'll be the death of me--you will--you will!" gasped Mrs. Squallop,
almost black in the face, and the water running out of the kettle, which she was unconsciously
holding aslant. After a while, however, they got reconciled. Mrs. Squallop had fancied he had
been but rubbing chalk on his eyebrows and whiskers; and seemed dismayed, indeed, on hearing
the true state of the case. He implored her to send out for a small bottle of ink; but as it
was Sunday morning none could be got;--she knew that no one in the court used ink, and she
teased him to try a little blacking! He did--but it was useless!--He sat for an hour or two,
in an ecstasy of grief and rage. What would he now have given never to have meddled with the
hair which Heaven had thought fit to send him into the world with? Alas, with what mournful
force Mrs. Squallop's words again and again recurred to him! To say that he ate breakfast would
be scarcely correct. He drank a single cup of cocoa, and ate a small fragment of roll, and
then put away his breakfast things on the window shelf. If he had been in the humor to go to
church, how could he? He would have been turned out as an object involuntarily exciting everybody
to laughter!

Yet, poor soul, in this extremity of misery, he was not utterly neglected; for he had that
morning quite a little levee. First came Mr. Snap, who, having quite as keen and clear an eye
for his own interest as his senior partners, had early seen how capable was an acquaintance
with Titmouse of being turned to his (Snap's) great advantage. He had come, therefore, dressed
very stylishly, to do a little bit of toadying on the sly, (on his own exclusive account;)
and had brought with him, for the edification of Titmouse, a copy of that day's Sunday Flash,
which contained a long account of a bloody fight between Birmingham Bigbones and London Littlego,
for £500 a-side, (sixty rounds had been fought, both men killed, and their seconds had bolted
to Boulogne.) Poor Snap, however, though he had come with the best intentions, and the most
anxious wish to evince profound respect for the future master of ten thousand a-year, was quite
taken by storm by the very first glimpse he got of Titmouse, and could not for a long while
recover himself. He had come to ask Titmouse to dine with him at a tavern in the Strand, where
there was to be capital singing in the evening; and also to accompany him, on the ensuing morning,
to the Old Bailey, to hear "a most interesting trial" for bigamy, in which Snap was concerned
for the prisoner--a miscreant, who had been married to five living women!! Snap conceived (and
very justly) that it would give Titmouse a striking idea of his (Snap's) importance, to see
him so much, and apparently so familiarly concerned with well-known counsel. In his own terse
and quaint way, he was explaining to Titmouse the various remedies he had against the Bond
Street impostor, both by indictment and action on the case, nay, (getting a little, however,
beyond his depth,) he assured the eager Titmouse, that a bill of discovery would lie in equity,
to ascertain what the Tetaragmenon Abracadabra was composed of, with a view to his preferring
an indictment against its owner, when his learned display was interrupted by a double knock,
and--oh, mercy on us!--enter Mr. Gammon. Whether he or Snap felt more disconcerted, I cannot
say; but Snap looked the most confused and sneaking. Each told the other a lie, in as easy,
good-natured a way as he could assume, concerning the object of his visit to Titmouse. Thus
they were going on, when--another knock--and, "Is this Mr. Titmouse's?" inquired a voice, which
brought a little color into the face of both Gammon and Snap; for it was absolutely old Quirk,
who bustled breathless into the room, on his first visit, and seemed completely confounded
by the sight of both his partners. What with this, and the amazing appearance presented by
Titmouse, Mr. Quirk was so overwhelmed that he scarce spoke a syllable. Each of the three partners
felt (in his own way) exquisite embarrassment. Huckaback, some time afterwards, made his appearance;
but him Titmouse unceremoniously dismissed in a twinkling, in spite of a vehement remonstrance.
Behold, however, presently another arrival--Mr. Tag-rag!! who had come to announce that his
carriage (i. e. a queer, rickety, little one-horse chaise, with a tallow-faced boy in it, in
faded livery) was waiting to convey Mr. Titmouse to Satin Lodge, and take him a long drive
in the country! Each of these four worthies could have spit in the other's face: first, for
detecting, and secondly, for rivalling him in his schemes upon Titmouse. A few minutes after
the arrival of Tag-rag, Gammon, half-choked with disgust, and despising himself even more than
he despised his fellow-visitors, slunk off, followed almost immediately by Quirk, who was dying
to consult him on this new aspect of affairs which had presented itself. Snap (who ever since
the arrival of Messrs. Quirk and Gammon had felt like an ape on hot irons) very shortly followed
in the footsteps of his partners, having made no engagement whatever with Titmouse; and thus
the enterprising and determined Tag-rag was left master of the field. He had in fact come to
do business, and business he determined to do. As for Gammon, during the short time he had
stayed, how he had endeared himself to Titmouse, by explaining, not aware that Titmouse had
confessed all to Snap, the singular change in the color of his hair to have been occasioned
simply by the intense mental anxiety through which he had lately passed! The touching anecdotes
he told of sufferers, whose hair a single night's agony had changed to all the colors of the
rainbow! Though Tag-rag outstayed all his fellow-visitors, in the manner which has been described,
he could not prevail upon Titmouse to accompany him in his "carriage," for Titmouse pleaded
a pressing engagement, (i. e. a desperate attempt he purposed making to obtain some ink,) but
pledged himself to make his appearance at Satin Lodge at the appointed hour (half-past three
or four o'clock.) Away, therefore, drove Tag-rag, delighted that Satin Lodge would so soon
contain so resplendent a visitor--indignant at the cringing, sycophantic attentions of Messrs.
Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, against whom he resolved to put Titmouse on his guard, and infinitely
astonished at the extraordinary change which had taken place in the color of Titmouse's hair.
Partly influenced by the explanation which Gammon had given of the phenomenon, Tag-rag resigned
himself to feelings of simple wonder. Titmouse was doubtless passing through stages of physical
transmogrification, corresponding with the marvellous change that was taking place in his circumstances;
and for all he (Tag-rag) knew, other and more extraordinary changes were going on; Titmouse
might be growing at the rate of half an inch a-day, and soon stand before him a man more than
six feet high! Considerations such as these invested Titmouse with intense and overpowering
interest in the estimation of Tag-rag; how could he make enough of him at Satin Lodge that
day? If ever that hardened sinner felt inclined to utter an inward prayer, it was as he drove
home that day--that Heaven would array his daughter in angel hues to the eyes of Titmouse!

My friend Tittlebat made his appearance at the gate of Satin Lodge, at about a quarter to four
o'clock. Good gracious, how he had dressed himself out! So as very considerably to exceed his
appearance when first presented to the reader.

Miss Tag-rag had been before her glass ever since the instant of her return from chapel, up
to within ten minutes' time of Titmouse's arrival. An hour and a half at least had she bestowed
on her hair, disposing it in little corkscrew and somewhat scanty curls, which quite glistened
in bear's grease, hanging on each side of a pair of lean and sallow cheeks. The color which
ought to have distributed itself over her cheeks, in roseate delicacy, had, two or three years
before, thought fit to collect itself into the tip of her sharp little nose. Her small gray
eyes beamed with the gentle and attractive expression perceptible in her father's; and her
projecting under lip reminded everybody of that delicate feature in her mother. She was very
short, and her figure rather skinny and angular. She wore her lilac-colored frock; her waist
being pinched in to a degree which made you think of a fit of the colic when you looked at
her--and gave you a dim vision of a coroner's inquest on a case of death by tight lacing! A
long red sash, tied in a most elaborate bow, gave a very brilliant air to her dress generally.
She had a thin gold chain round her neck, and wore long white gloves; her left hand holding
her pocket-handkerchief, which she had so suffused with bergamot that it scented the whole
room. Mrs. Tag-rag had made herself very splendid, in a red silk gown and staring head-dress;
in fact, she seemed on fire. As for Mr. Tag-rag, whenever he was dressed in his Sunday clothes,
he looked the model of a dissenting minister; witness his black coat, waistcoat and trousers,
and primly tied white neckerchief, with no shirt-collar visible. For some quarter of an hour
had this interesting trio been standing at their parlor window, in anxious expectation of Titmouse's
arrival; their only amusement being the numberless dusty stage-coaches driving every five minutes
close past their gate, (which was about ten yards from their house,) at once enlivening and
ruralizing the scene. Oh, that poor laburnum--laden with dust, drooping with drought, and evidently
in the very last stage of a decline--that was planted beside the little gate! Tag-rag spoke
of cutting it down; but Mrs. and Miss Tag-rag begged its life a little longer, because none
of their neighbors had one!--and then that subject dropped. How was it that though both the
ladies had sat under a thundering discourse from Mr. Dismal Horror that morning--they had never
once since thought or spoken of him or his sermon--never even opened his exhilarating "Groans"?
The reason was plain. They thought of Titmouse, who was bringing "airs from heaven;" while
Horror brought only "blasts from----!" and those they had every day in the week, (his sermons
on the Sunday, his "Groans" on the weekday.) At length Miss Tag-rag's little heart fluttered
violently, for her papa told her that Titmouse was coming up the road--and so he was. Not dreaming
that he could be seen, he stood beside the gate for a moment, under the melancholy laburnum;
and, taking a dirty-looking silk handkerchief out of his hat, slapped it vigorously about his
boots, (from which circumstance it may be inferred that he had walked,) and replaced it in
his hat. Then he unbuttoned his surtout, adjusted it nicely, and disposed his chain and eyeglass
just so as to let the tip only of the latter be seen peeping out of his waistcoat; twitched
up his shirt-collar, plucked down his wristbands, drew the tip of a white pocket handkerchief
out of the pocket in the breast of his surtout, pulled a white glove halfway on his left hand;
and having thus given the finishing touches to his toilet, opened the gate, and--Tittlebat
Titmouse, Esquire, the great guest of the day, for the first time in his life (swinging a little
ebony cane about with careless grace) entered the domain of Mr. Tag-rag.

The little performance I have been describing, though every bit of it passing under the eyes
of Tag-rag, his wife, and his daughter, had not excited a smile; their anxious feelings were
too deep to be reached or stirred by light emotions. Miss Tag-rag turned very pale and trembled.

"La, pa!" said she, faintly, "how could you say he'd got white eyebrows and whiskers? Why--they're
a beautiful black!"

Tag-rag was speechless: the fact was so--for Titmouse had fortunately succeeded in obtaining
a little bottle of ink, which he had applied with great effect. As Titmouse approached the
house, (Tag-rag hurrying out to open the door for him,) he saw the two ladies standing at the
windows. Off went his hat, and out dropped the dusty silk handkerchief, not a little disconcerting
him for the moment. Tag-rag, however, soon occupied his attention at the door with anxious
civilities, shaking him by the hand, hanging up his hat and stick for him, and then introducing
him to the sitting-room. The ladies received him with the most profound courtesies, which Titmouse
returned with a quick embarrassed bow, and an indistinct--"Hope you're well, mem?"

If they had had presence of mind enough to observe it, the purple color of Titmouse's hair
must have surprised them not a little; all they could see standing before them, however, was--the
angelic owner of ten thousand a-year.

The only person tolerably at his ease, and he only tolerably, was Mr. Tag-rag; and he asked
his guest----

"Wash your hands, Titmouse, before dinner?" But Titmouse said he had washed them before he
had come out. [The day was hot, and he had walked five miles at a slapping pace.] In a few
minutes, however, he felt a little more assured; it being impossible for him not to perceive
the awful deference with which he was treated.

"Seen the Sunday Flash, mem?" he presently inquired, very modestly, addressing Mrs. Tag-rag.

"I--I--that is--not to-day," she replied, coloring.

"Vastly amusing, isn't it?" interposed Tag-rag, to prevent mischief--for he knew his wife would
as soon have taken a cockatrice into her hand.

"Ye--e--s," replied Titmouse, who had not even glanced at the copy which Snap had brought him.
"An uncommon good fight between Birmingham Big"----

Tag-rag saw his wife getting redder and redder. "No news stirring about things in general,
is there?" said he, with a desperate attempt at a diversion.

"Not that I have heard," replied Titmouse. Soon he got a little farther, and said how cheerful
the stages going past must make the house. Tag-rag agreed with him. Then there was a little
pause. None of the party knew exactly which way to look, nor in what posture to sit. Faint
"hems" were occasionally heard. In short, no one felt at home.

"Been to church, mem, this morning, mem?" timidly inquired Titmouse of Miss Tag-rag--the first
time of his daring to address her.

"Yes, sir," she replied, faintly coloring, casting her eyes to the ground, and suddenly putting
her hand into that of her mother--with such an innocent, engaging simplicity--like a timid
fawn lying as close as possible to its dam![13]

"We always go to chapel, sir," said Mrs. Tag-rag, confidently, in spite of a deadly look from
her husband; "the gospel a'n't preached in the Church of England! We sit under Mr. Horror--a
heavenly preacher! You've heard of Mr. Horror?"

"Yes, mem! Oh, yes! Capital preacher!" replied Titmouse, who of course (being a true churchman)
had never in his life heard of Mr. Horror, or any other dissenter.

"When will dinner be ready, Mrs. T.?" inquired Tag-rag, abruptly, and with a very perceptible
dash of sternness in his tone; but dinner was announced the very next moment. He took his wife's
arm, and in doing so, gave it a sudden vehement pressure, which, coupled with a furious glance,
explained to her the extent to which she had incurred his anger!

Titmouse's offered arm the timid Miss Tag-rag scarcely touched with the tip of her finger,
as she walked beside him to dinner. He soon got tolerably composed and cheerful at dinner,
(which, contrary to their usual custom--which was to have a cheerless cold dinner on the Sabbath--consisted
of a little piece of nice roast beef, with plenty of horse-radish, Yorkshire pudding, a boiled
fowl, a plum-pudding made by Mrs. Tag-rag, and custards which had been superintended by Miss
Tag-rag herself,) and, to oblige his hospitable host and hostess, ate till he was near bursting.
Miss Tag-rag, though really very hungry, could be prevailed upon to take only a very small
slice of beef and a quarter of a custard, and drank a third of a glass of quasi sherry (i.
e. Cape wine) after dinner. She never once spoke, except in hurried answers, to her papa and
mamma; and sitting exactly opposite Titmouse, (with a big plate of greens and a boiled fowl
between them,) was continually coloring whenever their eyes happened to encounter one another,
on which occasions, hers would suddenly drop, as if overpowered by the brilliance of his. Titmouse
began to love her very fast. After the ladies had withdrawn, you should have heard the way
in which Tag-rag went on with Titmouse!--I can liken the two to nothing but an old fat spider
and a little fly.

    "Will you come into my parlor?
    Said the spider to the fly;"

--in the old song: and it might have been well for Titmouse to have answered, in the language
of the aforesaid fly:--

    "No, thank you, sir, I really feel
    No curiosity."

Titmouse, however, swallowed with equal facility Mr. Tag-rag's hard port and his soft blarney;
but all fools have large swallows. When, at length, Tag-rag with exquisite skill and delicacy
alluded to the painfully evident embarrassment of his "poor Tabby," and said he had "all of
a sudden found out what had been so long the matter with her," [ay, even this went down,] and
hemmed, and winked his eye, and drained his glass, Titmouse began to get flustered, blushed,
and hoped Mr. Tag-rag would soon "join the ladies." They did so, Tag-rag stopping behind for
a few moments to lock up the wine and the remains of the fruit, not wishing to subject the
servant-boy to temptation by the rare opportunity afforded by fruit left on the table. Miss
Tag-rag presided over the tea-things. There were muffins, and crumpets, and reeking-hot buttered
toast; and hospitable Mrs. Tag-rag would hear of no denial, "things had been got, and must
be eat," she thought within herself; so poor Titmouse, after a most desperate resistance, was
obliged to swallow a round of toast, half a muffin, an entire crumpet, and four cups of hot
tea; after which they felt that he must feel comfortable; but he, alas, in fact, experienced
a very painful degree of turgidity, and a miserable conviction that he should be able neither
to eat nor drink anything more for the remainder of the week!

After the tea-things had been removed, Tag-rag, directing Titmouse's attention to the piano,
which was open, (with some music on it, ready to be played from,) asked him whether he liked
music. Titmouse, with great eagerness, hoped Miss T. would give them some music; and she, after
holding out a long and vigorous siege, at length asked her papa what it should be.

"The Battle of Prague," said her papa.

"Before Jehovah's awful throne, my dear!" hastily and anxiously interposed her mamma.

"The Battle," sternly repeated her papa.

"It's Sunday night, Mr. T.," meekly rejoined his wife.

"Which will you have, Mr. Titmouse?" inquired Tag-rag, with The Battle of Prague written in
every feature of his face. Titmouse almost burst into a state of perspiration.

"A little of both, sir, if you please."

"Well," replied Tag-rag, slightly relaxing, "that will do. Split the difference--eh? Come,
Tab, down with you. Titmouse, will you turn over the music for my little girl?"

Titmouse rose, and having sheepishly taken his station beside Miss Tag-rag, the performances
commenced with Before Jehovah's awful throne! But mercy upon us! at what a rate she rattled
over that "pious air!" If its respectable composer (whoever he may be) had been present, he
must have gone into a fit; but there was no help for it--the heart of the lovely performer
was in The Battle of Prague, to which she presently did most ample justice. So much were her
feelings engaged in that sublime composition, that the bursting of one of the strings--twang!
in the middle of the "cannonading" did not at all disturb her; and, as soon as she had finished
the exquisite "finale," Titmouse was in such a tumult of excitement, from a variety of causes,
that he could have shed tears. Though he had never once turned over at the right place, Miss
Tag-rag thanked him for his services with a smile of infinite sweetness. Titmouse vowed he
had never heard such splendid music--begged for more: and away went Miss Tag-rag, hurried away
by her excitement. Rondo after rondo, march after march, she rattled over for at least half
an hour upon those hideous jingling keys; at the end of which old Tag-rag suddenly kissed her
with passionate fondness. Though Mrs. Tag-rag was horrified at the impiety of all this, she
kept a very anxious eye on the young couple, and interchanged with her husband, every now and
then, very significant looks. Shortly after nine, spirits, wine, and hot and cold water, were
brought in. At the sight of them Titmouse looked alarmed--for he knew that he must take something
more, though he would have freely given five shillings to be excused--for he felt as if he
could not hold another drop! But it was in vain. Willy-nilly, a glass of gin and water stood
soon before him; he protested he could not touch it unless Miss Tag-rag would "take something"--whereupon,
with a blush, she "thought she would" take a wine-glassful of sherry and water. This was provided
her. Then Tag-rag mixed a tumbler of port-wine negus for Mrs. Tag-rag, and a great glass of
mahogany-colored brandy and water for himself; and then he looked round the elegant little
apartment, and felt perfectly happy. As Titmouse advanced with his gin and water, his spirits
got higher and higher, and his tongue more fluent. He once or twice dropped the "Mr." when
addressing Tag-rag; several times smiled, and once even winked at the embarrassed Miss Tag-rag.
Mr. Tag-rag saw it, and could not control himself--for he had got to the end of his first glass
of brandy and water, and (a most unusual procedure with him) mixed himself a second quite as
strong as the former.

"Tab! ah, Tab! what has been the matter with you all these months?" said he, chucking her under
the chin--and then he winked his eye at her and then at Titmouse.

"Papa!" exclaimed Miss Tag-rag, looking down, and blushing up to her very temples.

"Ah, Titmouse--Titmouse--give me your hand," said Tag-rag; "you'll forget us all when you're
a great man--but we shall always remember you!"

"You're very good--very!" said Titmouse, cordially returning the pressure of Tag-rag's hand.
At that instant it suddenly occurred to him to adopt the suggestion of Mr. Gammon. Tag-rag
was going on very fast, indeed, about the disinterested nature of his feelings towards Titmouse;
towards whom, he said, he had always felt just as he did at that moment--'twas in vain to deny it.

"I'm sure your conduct shows it, sir," commenced Titmouse, feeling a shudder like that with
which a timid bather approaches the margin of the cold stream. "I could have taken my oath,
sir, that when you had heard what has happened, you would have refused to let me come into
your house!"----

"Ah, ha!--that's rather an odd idea, too!" said Tag-rag, with good-humored jocularity. "If
I felt a true friendship for you as plain Titmouse, it's so likely I should have cut you just
when--ahem! My dear sir! It was I that thought you wouldn't have come into my house! A likely
thing, indeed!"

Titmouse was puzzled. His perceptions, never very quick or clear, were now undoubtedly somewhat
obfuscated with what he had been drinking. In short, he did not understand that Tag-rag had
not understood him; and felt rather baffled.

"What surprising ups and downs there are in life, Mr. Titmouse!" said Mrs. Tag-rag, respectfully--"they're
all sent from above, you may depend upon it, to try us! No one knows how they'd behave, if
as how (in a manner) they were turned upside down."

"I--I hope, mem, I haven't done anything to show that I"----

"Oh! my dear Titmouse," anxiously interrupted Tag-rag, inwardly cursing his wife, who, finding
she always went wrong in her husband's eyes whenever she spoke a word, determined for the future
to stick to her negus--"The fact is, there's a Mr. Horror here that's for sending all decent
people to----. He's filled my wife there with all sorts of---- nay, if she isn't bursting with
cant--so never mind her! You done anything wrong! I will say this for you--you always was a
pattern of modesty and propriety--your hand, my dear Titmouse!"

"Well--I'm a happy man again," resumed Titmouse, resolved now to go on with his adventure.
"And when did they tell you of it, sir?"

"Oh, a few days ago--a week ago," replied Tag-rag, trying to recollect.

"Why--why--sir--a'n't you mistaken?" inquired Titmouse, with a depressed, but at the same time
a surprised air. "It only happened this morning, after you left"----

"Eh?--eh?--ah, ha!--What do you mean, Mr. Titmouse?" interrupted Tag-rag, with a faint attempt
at a smile. Mrs. Tag-rag and Miss Tag-rag also turned exceedingly startled faces towards Titmouse,
who felt as if a house were going to fall down on him.

"Why, sir," he began to cry, (an attempt which was greatly aided by the maudlin condition to
which drink had reduced him,) "till to-day, I thought I was heir to ten thousand a-year, and
it seems I'm not; it's all a mistake of those cursed people at Saffron Hill!"

Tag-rag's face changed visibly, and showed the desperate shock he had just sustained. His inward
agony was forcing out on his slanting forehead a dew of perspiration.

"What--a--capital--joke--Mr.--Titmouse--ah, ha!"--he gasped, hastily passing his handkerchief
over his forehead. Titmouse, though greatly alarmed, stood to his gun pretty steadily.

"I--I wish it was a joke! It's been no joke to me, sir. There's another Tittlebat Titmouse,
it seems, in Shoreditch, that's the right"----

"Who told you this, sir? Pho, I don't--I can't believe it," said Tag-rag, in a voice tremulous
between suppressed rage and fear.

"Too true, though, 'pon my life! It is, so help me----!" in the most earnest and solemn manner.

"How dare you swear before ladies, sir? You're insulting them, sir!" cried Tag-rag, trembling
with rage. "And in my presence, too, sir? You're not a gentleman!" He suddenly dropped his
voice, and in a trembling and almost beseeching manner, asked Titmouse whether he was really
joking or serious.

"Never more serious in my life, sir; and enough to make me so, sir!" replied Titmouse, in a
lamentable manner.

"You really mean, then, to tell me it's all a mistake, then--and that you're no more than what
you always were?" inquired Tag-rag, with a desperate attempt to speak calmly.

"Oh yes, sir! Yes!" cried Titmouse, mournfully; "and if you'll only be so kind as to let me
serve you as I used--I'll serve you faithfully! You know it was no fault of mine, sir! They
would tell me it was so!"

'Tis impossible to conceive a more disgusting expression than the repulsive features of Tag-rag
wore at that moment, while he gazed in ominous and agitated silence at Titmouse. His lips quivered,
and he seemed incapable of speaking.

"Oh, ma, I do feel so ill!" faintly exclaimed Miss Tag-rag, turning deadly pale. Titmouse was
on the verge of dropping on his knees and confessing the trick, greatly agitated at the effect
unexpectedly produced on Miss Tag-rag; when Tag-rag's heavy hand was suddenly placed on his
shoulder, and he whispered in a fierce undertone--"You're an impostor, sir!" which arrested
Titmouse, and made something like a MAN of him. He was a fearful fool, but he did not want
for mere pluck; and now it was roused. Mrs. Tag-rag exclaimed, "Oh, you shocking scamp!" as
she passed Titmouse, with much agitation, and led her daughter out of the room.

"Then an impostor, sir, a'n't fit company for you, of course, sir!" said Titmouse, rising,
and trembling with mingled apprehension and anger.

"Pay me my five-pound note!" almost shouted Tag-rag, furiously tightening the grasp by which
he held Titmouse's collar.

"Well, sir, and I will, if you'll only take your hand off! Hollo, sir--What the de---- Leave
go, sir! Hands off! Are you going to murder me? I'll pay you, and done with you, sir," stammered
Titmouse:--when a faint scream was heard, plainly from Miss Tag-rag, overhead, and in hysterics.
Then the seething caldron boiled over. "You infernal scoundrel!" exclaimed Tag-rag, almost
choked with fury; and suddenly seizing Titmouse by the collar, scarce giving him time, in passing,
to get hold of his hat and stick, he urged him along through the passage, down the gravel walk,
threw open the gate, thrust him furiously through it, and sent after him such a blast of execration,
as was almost strong enough to drive him a hundred yards down the road! Titmouse did not fully
recover his breath or his senses for a long while afterwards. When he did, the first thing
he experienced, was a dreadful disposition towards sickness; but gradually overcoming it, he
felt an inclination to fall down on his knees in the open road, and worship the sagacious and
admirable GAMMON, who had so exactly predicted what had come to pass!

And now, Mr. Titmouse, for some little time I have done with you. Away!--give room to your
betters. But don't think that I have yet "rifled all your sweetness," or am yet about to "fling
you like a noisome weed away."

CHAPTER VII.

While the lofty door of a house in Grosvenor Street was yet quivering under the shock of a
previously announced dinner-arrival, one of the two servants standing behind a carriage which
approached from the direction of Piccadilly, slipped off, and in a twinkling, with a thun-thun-thunder-under-under,
thunder-runder-runder, thun-thun-thun! and a shrill thrilling Whir-r-r of the bell, announced
the arrival of the Duke of----, the last guest. It was a large and plain carriage, but perfectly
well known; and before the door of the house at which it had drawn up had been opened, displaying
some four or five servants standing in the hall, in simple but elegant liveries, some half-dozen
passengers had stopped to see get out of the carriage an elderly, middle-sized man, with a
somewhat spare figure, dressed in plain black clothes, with iron-gray hair, and a countenance
which, once seen, was not to be forgotten. That was a great man; one, the like of whom many
previous centuries had not seen; whose name shot terror into the hearts of all the enemies
of old England all over the world, and fond pride and admiration into the hearts of his fellow-countrymen.

"A quarter to eleven!" he said, in a quiet tone, to the servant who was holding open the carriage
door--while the bystanders took off their hats; a courtesy which he acknowledged, as he slowly
stepped across the pavement, by touching his hat in a mechanical sort of way with his forefinger.
The house-door then closed upon him; the handful of onlookers passed away; off rolled the empty
carriage, and all without was quiet as before. The house was that of Mr. Aubrey, one of the
members for the borough of YATTON, in Yorkshire--a man of rapidly rising importance in Parliament.
Surely his was a pleasant position--that of an independent country gentleman, a member of one
of the most ancient noble families in England, with a clear unencumbered rent-roll of ten thousand
a-year, and already, in only his thirty-fourth year, the spokesman of his class, and promising
to become one of the ablest debaters in the House! Parliament having been assembled, in consequence
of a particular emergency, at a much earlier period than usual, the House of Commons, in which
Mr. Aubrey had the evening before delivered a well-timed and powerful speech, had adjourned
for the Christmas recess, the House of Lords being about to follow its example that evening:
an important division, however, being first expected to take place at a late hour. Mr. Aubrey
was warmly complimented on his success by several of the select and brilliant circle then assembled;
and who were all in high spirits--on account of a considerable triumph just obtained by their
party, and to which Mr. Aubrey was assured, by even the Duke of----, his exertions had certainly
not a little contributed. While his Grace was energetically intimating to Mr. Aubrey his opinion
to this effect, there were two lovely women listening to him with intense eagerness--they were
the wife and sister of Mr. Aubrey. The former was a very interesting and handsome woman--with
raven hair, and a complexion of dazzling fairness--of nearly eight-and-twenty; the latter was
a very beautiful girl, somewhere between twenty and twenty-one. Both were dressed with the
utmost simplicity and elegance. Mrs. Aubrey, most dotingly fond of her husband, and a blooming
young mother of two as charming children as were to be met with in a day's walk all over both
the parks, was, in character and manners, all pliancy and gentleness; while about Miss Aubrey
there was a dash of spirit which gave an infinite zest to her beauty. Her blue eyes beamed
with the richest expression of feeling--in short, Catherine Aubrey was, both in face and figure,
a downright English beauty; and she knew--truth must be told--that such she appeared to the
Great Duke, whose cold aquiline eye she often felt to be settled upon her with satisfaction.
The fact was that he had penetrated at a first glance beneath the mere surface of an arch,
sweet, and winning manner, and detected a certain strength of character in Miss Aubrey which
gave him more than usual interest in her, and spread over his iron-cast features a pleasant
expression, relaxing their sternness. It might indeed be said, that before her, in his person,

    "Grim-visaged war had smooth'd his wrinkled front."

'Twas a subject for a painter, that delicate and blooming girl, her auburn hair hanging in
careless grace on each side of her white forehead, while her eyes,

    "That might have sooth'd a tiger's rage,
    Or thaw'd the cold heart of a conqueror,"

were fixed with absorbed interest on the stern and rigid countenance which she reflected had
been, as it were, a thousand times darkened with the smoke of the grisly battle-field. But
I must not forget that there are others in the room; and among them, standing at a little distance,
is Lord De la Zouch, one of Mr. Aubrey's neighbors in Yorkshire. Apparently he is listening
to a brother peer talking to him very earnestly about the expected division; but Lord De la
Zouch's eye is fixed on you, lovely Kate--and how little can you imagine what is passing through
his mind! It has just occurred to him that his sudden arrangement for young Delamere--his only
son and heir, come up the day before from Oxford--to call for him about half-past ten, and
take his place in Mrs. Aubrey's drawing-room, while Lord De la Zouch goes down to the House--may
be attended with certain consequences! He is in truth speculating on the effect of your beauty
bursting suddenly on his son--who has not seen you for nearly two years! all this gives him
anxiety--but not painful anxiety--for, dear Kate, he knows that your forehead would wear the
ancient coronet of the De la Zouches with grace and dignity. But Delamere is as yet too young--and
if he gets the image of Catherine Aubrey into his head, it will, fears his father, instantly
cast into the shade and displace all the stern visages of those old geometers, poets, orators,
historians, philosophers, and statesmen, who ought, in Lord De la Zouch's and his son's tutor's
judgment, to occupy exclusively the head of the aforesaid Delamere for some five years to come.
That youngster--happy fellow!--frank, high-spirited, and enthusiastic--and handsome to boot--was
heir to an ancient title and very great estates; all that his father had considered in looking
out for an alliance was--youth, health, beauty, blood--here they all were;--and fortune too--bah!
what did it signify to his son--but at any rate 'twas not to be thought of for some years.

"Suppose," said he, aloud, though in a musing manner, "one were to say--twenty-four"----

"Twenty-four!" echoed his companion, with amazement; "my dear De la Zouch, what the deuce do
you mean? Eighty-four at the very lowest!"

"Eh? what? oh--yes of course--I should say ninety--I mean--hem!--they will muster about twenty-four
only."

"Ah--I beg your pardon!--there you're right, I dare say."--Here the announcement of dinner
put an end to the colloquy of the two statesmen. Lord De la Zouch led down Miss Aubrey with
an air of the most delicate and cordial courtesy; and felt almost disposed, in the heat of
the moment, to tell her that he had arranged all in his own mind--that if she willed it, she
had his hearty consent to become the future Lady De la Zouch. He was himself the eleventh who
had come to the title in direct descent from father to son; 'twas a point he was not a little
nervous and anxious about--he detested collateral succession--and he made himself infinitely
agreeable to Miss Aubrey as he sat beside her at dinner! The Duke of---- sat on the right hand
side of Mrs. Aubrey, seemingly in high spirits, and she appeared proud enough of her supporter.
It was a delightful dinner-party, elegant without ostentation, and select without pretence
of exclusiveness. All were cheerful and animated, not merely on account of the over-night's
parliamentary victory, which I have already alluded to, but also in contemplation of the coming
Christmas; how, and where, and with whom each was to spend that "righte merrie season," being
the chief topic of conversation. As there was nothing peculiar in the dinner, and as I have
no turn for describing such matters in detail--the clatter of plate, the jingling of silver,
the sparkling of wines, and so forth--I shall request the reader to imagine himself led by
me quietly out of the dining-room into the library--thus escaping from all the bustle and hubbub
attendant upon such an entertainment as is going on in front of the house. We shall be alone
in the library--here it is; we enter it, and shut the door. 'Tis a spacious room, all the sides
covered with books, of which Mr. Aubrey is a great collector--and the clear red fire (which
we must presently replenish, or it will go out) is shedding a subdued ruddy light on all the
objects in the room, very favorable for our purpose. The ample table is covered with books
and papers; and there is an antique-looking arm-chair drawn opposite to the fire, in which
Mr. Aubrey has been indulging in a long revery till the moment of quitting it to go and dress
for dinner. This chair I shall sit in myself; you may draw out from the recess for yourself
one of two little sloping easy-chairs, which have been placed there by Mrs. and Miss Aubrey
for their own sole use, considering that they are excellent judges of the period at which Mr.
Aubrey has been long enough alone, and at which they should come in and gossip with him. We
may as well draw the dusky green curtains across the window, through which the moon shines
at present rather too brightly.--So now, after coaxing up the fire, I will proceed to tell
you a little bit of pleasant family history.

The Aubreys are a Yorkshire family--the younger branch of the ancient and noble family of the
Dreddlingtons. Their residence, YATTON, is in the north-eastern part of the county, not above
fifteen or twenty miles from the sea. The hall is one of those old structures, the sight of
which throws you back a couple of centuries in our English history. It stands in a park, crowded
with trees, many of them of great age and size, and under which two or three hundred head of
deer perform their capricious and graceful gambols. In approaching from London, you strike
off from the great north road into a broad by-way; after going down which for about a mile,
you come to a straggling little village called Yatton, at the farther extremity of which stands
a little aged gray church, with a tall thin spire; an immense yew-tree, with a kind of friendly
gloom, overshadowing, in the little churchyard, nearly half the graves. Rather in the rear
of the church is the vicarage-house, snug and sheltered by a line of fir-trees. After walking
on about eighty yards, you come to high park-gates, and see a lodge just within, on the left
hand side, sheltered by an elm-tree. Having passed through these gates, you wind your way for
about two-thirds of a mile along a gravel walk, among the thickening trees, till you come to
a ponderous old crumbling looking red brick gateway of the time of Henry VII., with one or
two deeply set stone windows in the turrets, and mouldering stone-capped battlements peeping
through high-climbing ivy. There is an old escutcheon immediately over the point of the arch;
and as you pass underneath, if you look up, you can plainly see the groove of the old portcullis
still remaining. Having passed under this castellated remnant, you enter a kind of court formed
by a high wall completely covered with ivy, running along in a line from the right hand turret
of the gateway till it joins the house. Along its course are a number of yew-trees. In the
centre of the open space is a quaintly disposed grass-plot, dotted about with stunted box,
and in the centre of that stands a weather-beaten stone sundial.

The house itself is a large irregular pile of dull red brickwork, with great stacks of chimneys
in the rear; the body of the building has evidently been erected at different times. Some part
is evidently in the style of Queen Elizabeth's reign, another in that of Queen Anne; and it
is plain that on the site of the present structure has formerly stood a castle. There are,
indeed, traces of the old moat still visible round the rear of the house. One of the ancient
towers, with small deep stone windows, still remains, giving its venerable support to the right
hand extremity of the building, as you stand with your face to the door. The long frontage
of the house consists of two huge masses of dusky-red brickwork, (you can hardly call them
wings,) connected together by a lower building in the centre, which contains the hall. There
are three or four rows of long thin deep windows, with heavy-looking wooden sashes. The high-pitched
roof is of red tiles, and has deep projecting eaves, forming, in fact, a bold wooden cornice
running along the whole length of the building, which is some two or three stories high. At
the left extremity stands a clump of ancient cedars of Lebanon, feathering in evergreen beauty
down to the ground. The hall is large and lofty; the floor is of polished oak, almost the whole
of which is covered with thick matting; it is wainscoted all round with black oak; some seven
or eight full-length pictures, evidently of considerable antiquity, being let into the panels.
Quaint figures these are to be sure; and if they resembled the ancestors of the Aubrey family,
those ancestors must have been singular and startling persons! The faces are quite white and
staring--all as if in wonder; and they have such long thin legs! some of them ending in sharp-pointed
shoes. On each side of the ample fireplace stands a figure in full armor; and there are also
ranged along the wall old helmets, cuirasses, swords, lances, battle-axes, and cross-bows,
the very idea of wearing, wielding, and handling which, makes your arms ache, while you exclaim,
"they must have been giants in those days!" On one side of this hall, a door opens into the
dining-room, beyond which is the library; on the other side a door leads you into a noble room,
now called the drawing-room, where stands a very fine organ. Out of both the dining-room and
drawing-room you pass up a staircase contained in an old square tower; two sides of each of
them, opening on the quadrangle, lead into a gallery running round it, and into which all the
bed-rooms open.

But I need not go into further detail. Altogether it is truly a fine old mansion. Its only
constant occupant is Mrs. Aubrey, the mother of Mr. Aubrey, in whose library we are now seated.
She is a widow, having survived her husband, who twice was one of the county members, about
fifteen years. Mr. Aubrey is her first-born child, Miss Aubrey her last; four intervening children
rest prematurely in the grave--and the grief and suffering consequent upon all these bereavements
have sadly shaken her constitution, and made her, both in actual health, and in appearance,
at least ten years older than she really is--for she has, in point of fact, not long since
entered her sixtieth year. What a blessed life she leads at Yatton! Her serene and cheerful
temper makes every one happy about her; and her charity is unbounded, but dispensed with a
just discrimination. One way or another, almost a fourth of the village are direct pensioners
upon her bounty. You have only to mention the name of Madam Aubrey, the lady of Yatton, to
witness involuntary homage paid to her virtues. Her word is law; and well indeed it may be.
While Mr. Aubrey, her husband, was, to the last, somewhat stern in his temper and reserved
in his habits, bearing withal a spotless and lofty character, she was always what she still
is, meek, gentle, accessible, charitable, and pious. On his death she withdrew from the world,
and has ever since resided at Yatton--never having quitted it for a single day. There are in
the vicinity one or two stately families, with ancient name, sounding title, and great possessions;
but for ten miles round Yatton, old Madam Aubrey, the squire's mother, is the name that is
enshrined in people's kindliest and most grateful feelings, and receives their readiest homage.
'Tis perhaps a very small matter to mention, but there is at the hall an old white mare, Peggy,
that for these twenty years, in all weathers, hath been the bearer of Madam's bounty. Thousands
of times hath she carried Jacob Jones (now a pensioned servant, whose hair is as white as Peggy's)
all over the estate, and also oft beyond it, with comfortable matters for the sick and poor.
Most commonly there are a couple of stone bottles filled with cowslip, currant, ginger, or
elderberry wine, slung before him over the well-worn saddle--to the carrying of which Peggy
has got so accustomed, that she does not go comfortably without them. She has so fallen into
the habits of old Jones, who is an inveterate gossip, (Madam having helped to make him such
by the numerous inquiries she makes of him every morning as to every one in the village and
on the estate, and which inquiries he must have the means of answering,) that, slowly as she
jogs along, if ever she meets or is overtaken by any one, she stops of her own accord, as if
to hear what they and her rider have to say to one another. She is a great favorite with all,
and gets a mouthful of hay or grass at every place she stops at, either from the children or
the old people. When poor Peggy comes to die, (and she is getting feeble, now,) she will be
missed by all the folk round Yatton! Madam Aubrey, growing, I am sorry to say, less able to
exert herself, does not go about as much as she used, betaking herself, therefore, oftener
and oftener, to the old family coach; and when she is going to drive about the neighborhood,
you may almost always see it stop at the vicarage for old Dr. Tatham, who generally accompanies
her. On these occasions she always has in the carriage a black velvet bag containing Testaments
and Prayer-books, which are principally distributed as rewards to those whom the parson can
recommend as deserving of them. For these five-and-twenty years she has never missed giving
a copy of each to every child in the village and on the estate, on its being confirmed; and
the old lady looks round very keenly every Sunday, from her pew, to see that these Bibles and
Prayer-books are reverently used. I could go on for an hour and longer, telling you these and
other such matters of this exemplary lady; but we shall by and by have some opportunities of
seeing and knowing more of her personally. Her features are delicate, and have been very handsome;
and in manner she is very calm, and quiet, and dignified. She looks all that you would expect
from what I have told you. The briskness of youth, the sedate firmness of middle-age, have
years since given place, as you will see with some pain, to the feebleness produced by ill
health and mental suffering--for she mourned grievously after those whom she had lost! Oh!
how she dotes upon her surviving son and daughter! And are they not worthy of such a mother?

Mr. Aubrey is in his thirty-fourth year; and inherits the mental qualities of both his parents--the
demeanor and person of his father. He has a reserve which is not cynical, but only diffident;
yet it gives him, at least at first sight, and till you have become familiar with his features,
which are of a cast at once refined and aristocratic, yet full of goodness--an air of hauteur,
which is very--very far from his real nature. He has in truth the soft heart and benignant
temper of his mother, joined with the masculine firmness of character which belonged to his
father; which, however, is in danger of being seriously impaired by inaction. Sensitive he
is, perhaps to a fault. There is a tone of melancholy in his composition, which has probably
increased upon him from his severe studies, ever since his youth. He is a man of superior intellect;
a capital scholar; took the highest honor at Oxford: and has since justified the expectations
which were then entertained of him. He has made several really valuable contributions to historic
literature--indeed, I think he is even now engaged upon some researches calculated to throw
much light upon the obscure origin of several of our political institutions. He has entered
upon politics with uncommon--perhaps with an excessive--ardor. I think he is likely to make
an eminent figure in Parliament; for he is a man of very clear head, very patient, of business-like
habits, ready in debate, and, moreover, has at once an impressive and engaging delivery as
a public speaker. He is generous and charitable as his admirable mother, and careless, even
to a fault, of his pecuniary interests. He is a man of perfect simplicity and purity of character.
Above all, his virtues are the virtues which have been sublimed by Christianity--as it were,
the cold embers of morality warmed into religion. He stands happily equidistant from infidelity
and fanaticism. He has looked for light from above, and has heard a voice saying, "This is
the way, walk thou in it." His piety is the real source of that happy consistent dignity, and
content, and firmness, which have earned him the respect of all who know him, and will bear
him through whatever may befall him. He who standeth upon this rock cannot be moved, perhaps
not even touched, by the surges of worldly reverses--of difficulty and distress! In manner
Mr. Aubrey is calm and gentlemanlike; in person he is rather above the middle height, and of
slight make. From the way in which his clothes hang about him, a certain sharpness at his shoulders
catching the eye of an observer--you would feel an anxiety about his health, which would be
increased by hearing of the mortality in his family; and your thoughts are perhaps pointed
in the same direction, by a glance at his long, thin, delicate, white hands. His countenance
has a serene manliness about it when in repose, and great acuteness and vivacity when animated.
His hair, not very full, is black as jet, his forehead ample and marked; and his eyes are the
exponents of perfect sincerity and acuteness.

Mr. Aubrey has been married about six years; 'twas a case of love at first sight. Chance (so
to speak) threw him in the way of Agnes St. Clair, within a few weeks after she had been bereaved
of her only parent, Colonel St. Clair, a man of old but impoverished family, who fell in the
Peninsular war. Had he lived only a month or two longer, he would have succeeded to a considerable
estate; as it was, he left his only child comparatively penniless; but Heaven had endowed her
with personal beauty, with a lovely disposition, and superior understanding. It was not till
after a long and anxious wooing, backed by the cordial entreaties of Mrs. Aubrey, that Miss
St. Clair consented to become the wife of a man, who, to this hour, loves her with all the
passionate ardor with which she had first inspired him. And richly she deserves his love! She
does, indeed, dote upon him; she studies, or rather, perhaps, anticipates his every wish; in
short, had the whole sex been searched for one calculated to make happy the morbidly fastidious
Aubrey, the choice must surely have fallen on Miss St. Clair; a woman whose temper, whose tastes,
and whose manners were at once in delicate and harmonizing unison and contrast with his own.
She has hitherto brought him but two children--and those very beautiful children, too--a boy
between four and five years old, and a girl about two years old. If I were to hint my own impressions,
I should say there was a probability---- be that, however, as it may, 't is an affair we have
nothing to do with at present.

Of Catherine Aubrey you had a momentary moonlight glimpse at a former period of this history;[14]
and you have seen her this evening under other, and perhaps not less interesting circumstances.
Now, where have you beheld a more exquisite specimen of budding womanhood? but I feel that
I shall get extravagant if I begin to dwell upon her charms. You have seen her--judge for yourself;
but you do not know her as I do; and I shall tell you that her personal beauty is but a faint
emblem of the beauties of her mind and character. She is Aubrey's youngest--now his only sister;
and he cherishes her with the tenderest and fondest affection. Neither he, nor his mother--with
whom she spends her time alternately--can bear to part with her for ever so short an interval.
She is the gay, romping playmate of the little Aubreys; the demure secretary and treasurer
of her mother. I say demure, for there is a sly humor and archness in Kate's composition, which
flickers about even her gravest moods. She is calculated equally for the seclusion of Yatton
and the splendid atmosphere of Almack's; but for the latter she seems at present to have little
inclination. Kate is a girl of decided character, of strong sense, of high principle; all of
which are irradiated, not overborne, by her sparkling vivacity of temperament. She has real
talent; and her mind has been trained, and her tastes directed, with affectionate skill and
vigilance by her gifted brother. She has many accomplishments; but the only one I shall choose
here to name is--music. She was one to sing and play before a man of the most fastidious taste
and genius! I defy any man to hear the rich tones of Miss Aubrey's voice without feeling his
heart moved. Music is with her a matter not of art but of feeling--of passionate feeling; but
hark!--hush!--surely--yes, that is Miss Aubrey's voice--yes, that is her clear and brilliant
touch; the ladies have ascended to the drawing-room, and we must presently follow them. How
time has passed! I had a great deal more to tell you about the family, but we must take some
other opportunity.

Yes, it is Miss Aubrey, playing on the new and superb piano given by her brother last week
to Mrs. Aubrey. Do you see with what a careless grace and ease she is giving a very sweet but
difficult composition of Haydn? The lady who is standing by her to turn over her music, is
the celebrated Countess of Lydsdale. She is still young and beautiful; but beside Miss Aubrey
she presents a somewhat painful contrast! 'T is all the difference between an artificial and
a natural flower. Poor Lady Lydsdale! you are not happy with all your fashion and splendor;
the glitter of your diamonds cannot compensate for the loss of the sparkling spirits of a younger
day; they pale their ineffectual fires beside the fresh and joyous spirit of Catherine Aubrey!
You sigh----

"Now, I'll sing you quite a new thing," said Miss Aubrey, starting up, and turning over her
portfolio till she came to a sheet of paper, on which were some verses in her own handwriting,
and with which she sat down again before the piano: "The words were written by my brother,
and I have found an old air that exactly suits them!" Here her fingers, wandering lightly and
softly over the keys, gave forth a beautiful symphony in the minor; after which, with a rich
and soft voice, she sang the following:--

    PEACE.

    I.

        Where, O where
      Hath gentle PEACE found rest?
    Builds she in bower of lady fair?--
    But LOVE--he hath possession there;
      Not long is she the guest.

    II.

        Sits she crown'd
      Beneath a pictured dome?
    But there AMBITION keeps his ground,
    And Fear and Envy skulk around;
      This cannot be her home.

    III.

        Will she hide
      In scholar's pensive cell?
    But he already hath his bride:
    Him MELANCHOLY sits beside--
      With her she may not dwell.

    IV.

        Now and then,
      Peace, wandering, lays her head
    On regal couch, in captive's den--
    But nowhere finds she rest with men,
      Or only with the dead!

To these words, trembling on the beautiful lips of Miss Aubrey, was listening an unperceived
auditor, with eyes devouring her every feature, and ears absorbing every tone of her thrilling
voice. It was young Delamere, who had, only a moment or two before Miss Aubrey had commenced
singing the above lines, alighted from his father's carriage, which was then waiting at the
door to carry off Lord De la Zouch to the House of Lords. Arrested by the rich voice of the
singer, he stopped short before he had entered the drawing-room in which she sat, and stepping
to a corner where he was hid from view, though he could distinctly see Miss Aubrey, there he
remained as if rooted to the spot. He, too, had a soul for music; and the exquisite manner
in which Miss Aubrey gave the last verse, called up before his excited fancy the vivid image
of a dove fluttering with agitated uncertainty over the sea of human life; even like the dove
over the waters enveloping the earth in olden time. The mournful minor into which she threw
the last two lines, excited a heart susceptible of the liveliest emotions to a degree which
it required some effort to control, and almost a tear to relieve. When Miss Aubrey had quitted
the piano, Mrs. Aubrey followed, and gave a very delicate sonata from Haydn. Then sat down
Lady Lydsdale, and dashed off, in an exceedingly brilliant style, a scena from the new opera,
which quickly reduced the excited feelings of Delamere to a pitch admitting of his presenting
himself! While this lowering process was going on, Delamere took down a small volume from a
tasteful little cabinet of books immediately behind him. It was Spenser's Faery Queen. He found
many pencil-marks, evidently made by a light female hand; and turning to the fly-leaf, beheld
the name of "Catherine Aubrey." His heart fluttered; he turned towards the piano, and beheld
the graceful figure of Miss Aubrey standing beside Lady Lydsdale, in an attitude of delighted
earnestness--for her ladyship was undoubtedly a very brilliant performer--totally unconscious
of the admiring eye which was fixed upon her. After gazing at her for some moments, he gently
pressed the autograph to his lips; and solemnly vowed within himself, in the most deliberate
manner possible, that if he could not marry Kate Aubrey, he would never marry anybody; he would,
moreover, quit England forever; and deposit a broken heart in a foreign grave--and so forth.
Thus calmly resolved--or rather to such a resolution did his thoughts tend--that sedate person,
the Honorable Geoffrey Lovel Delamere. He was a high-spirited, frank-hearted fellow; and, like
a good-natured fool, whom bitter knowledge of the world has not cooled down into contempt for
a very considerable portion of it, trusted and loved almost every one whom he saw. At that
moment there was only one person in the whole world that he hated, viz. the miserable individual--if
any such there were--who might have happened to forestall him in the affections of Miss Aubrey.
The bare idea made his breath come and go quickly, and his cheek flush. Why, he felt that he
had a sort of right to Miss Aubrey's heart; for had they not been born, and had they not lived
almost all their lives, within a few miles of each other? Had they not often played together?--were
not their family estates almost contiguous?--Delamere advanced into the room, assuming as unconcerned
an air as he could; but he felt not a little tried when Miss Aubrey, on seeing him, gayly and
frankly extended her hand to him, supposing him to have only the moment before entered the
house. Poor Delamere's hand slightly quivered as he felt it clasping the soft lilied fingers
of her whom he had thus resolved to make his wife: what would he not have given to have carried
them to his lips! Now, if I were to say that in the course of that evening, Miss Aubrey did
not form a kind--of a sort--of a faint--notion of the possible state of matters with young
Delamere, I should not be treating the reader with that eminent degree of candor for which
I think he, or she, is at present disposed to give me credit. But Kate was deeply skilled in
human nature, and promptly settled the matter by one very just reflection, viz. that Delamere
was, in contemplation of law, a mere infant--i. e. he wanted yet several weeks of twenty-one!
and, therefore, that it was not likely that, &c. &c. &c. And, besides--pooh!--pooh!--'t is
a mere boy, at College--how ridiculous!--So she gave herself no trouble about the affair; exhibited
no symptoms of caution or coyness, but conducted herself just as if he had not been present.

He was a handsome young fellow, too!----

During the evening, Mr. Delamere took an opportunity of asking Miss Aubrey who wrote the verses
to which he pointed, as they lay on the piano. The handwriting, she said, was hers, but the
verses were composed by her brother. He asked for the copy, with a slight trepidation. She
readily gave it to him--he receiving it with (as he supposed) a mighty unconcerned air. He
read it over that night, before getting into bed, at least six times; and it was the very first
thing he looked at on getting out of bed in the morning. Now Miss Aubrey certainly wrote an
elegant hand--but as for character, of course it had none. He could scarcely have distinguished
it from the writing of any of his cousins or friends;--How should he? All women are taught
the same hard, angular, uniform style--but good, bad, or indifferent, this was Kate Aubrey's
handwriting--and her pretty hand had rested on the paper while writing--that was enough. He
resolved to turn the verses into every kind of Greek and Latin metre he knew of--

In short, that here was a "course of true love" opened, seems pretty evident: but whether it
will "run smooth" is another matter.

Their guests having at length departed, Mr. Aubrey, his wife, and sister, soon afterwards rose
to retire. He went, very sleepy, straight to his dressing-room; they to the nursery--(a constant
and laudable custom with them)--to see how the children were going on, as far as could be learned
from the drowsy attendants of the aforesaid children. Little Aubrey would have reminded you
of one of the exquisite sketches of children's heads by Reynolds or Lawrence, as he lay breathing
imperceptibly, with his rich flowing hair spread upon the pillow, in which his face was partly
hid, and his arms stretched out. Mrs. Aubrey put her finger into one of his hands, which was
half open, and which closed as it were instinctively upon it, with a gentle pressure. "Look--only
look--Kate!" softly whispered Mrs. Aubrey. Miss Aubrey leaned forward and kissed his little
cheek with an ardor which almost awoke him. After a glance at a tiny head partly visible above
the clothes, in an adjoining bed, and looking like a rosebud almost entirely hid among the
leaves, they withdrew.

"The little loves!--how one's heart thrills with looking at them!" said Miss Aubrey as they
descended. "Kate!" whispered Mrs. Aubrey, with an arch smile, as they stood at their respective
chamber doors, which adjoined, "Mr. Delamere is improved--is not he?--Ah, Kate! Kate!--I understand!"

"Agnes, how can you"--hastily answered Miss Aubrey, with cheeks suddenly crimsoned. "I never
heard such nonsense"----

"Night, night, Kate! think over it!" said Mrs. Aubrey, and kissing her beautiful sister-in-law,
the next moment the blooming wife had entered her bedroom. Miss Aubrey slipped into her dressing-room,
where Harriet, her maid, was sitting asleep before the fire. Her lovely mistress did not for
a few minutes awake her; but placing her candlestick on the toilet table, stood in a musing
attitude.

"It's so perfectly ridiculous" at length she said aloud; and up started her maid. Within half
an hour Miss Aubrey was in bed, but by no means asleep!

The next morning, about eleven o'clock, Mr. Aubrey was seated in the library, in momentary
expectation of his letters; and a few moments before the postman's rat-tat was heard, Mrs.
and Miss Aubrey made their appearance, as was their wont, in expectation of anything which
might have upon the cover, in addition to the address--

     "CHARLES AUBREY, ESQ., M. P.," &c. &c. &c.,

the words, "Mrs. Aubrey," or "Miss Aubrey," in the corner. In addition to this, 'twas not an
unpleasant thing to skim over the contents of his letters! as one by one he opened them, and
laid them aside; for both these fair creatures were daughters of Eve, and inherited a little
of her curiosity. Mr. Aubrey was always somewhat nervous and fidgety on such occasions, and
wished them gone; but they only laughed at him, so he was fain to put up with them. On this
morning there were more than Mr. Aubrey's usual number of letters; and in casting her eye over
them, Mrs. Aubrey suddenly took up one that challenged attention; it bore a black seal, had
a deep black bordering, and bore the frank of Lord Alkmond, at whose house in Shropshire they
had for months been engaged to spend the ensuing Christmas, and were intending to set off on
their visit the very next day. The ominous missive was soon torn open; it was from Lord Alkmond
himself, who in a few hurried lines announced the sudden death of his brother; so that there
was an end of their visit to the Priory.

"Well!" exclaimed Mr. Aubrey, calmly, rising after a pause, and standing with his back to the
fire, in a musing posture.

"Has he left any family, Charles?" inquired Mrs. Aubrey, with a sigh, her eyes still fixed
on the letter.

"I--I really don't know--poor fellow! We lose a vote for Fellington--we shall, to a certainty,"
he added, with an air of chagrin visibly stealing over his features.

"How politics harden the heart, Charles! Just at this moment to be"---- quoth Mrs. Aubrey.

"It is too bad, Agnes, I own--but you see," said Mr. Aubrey, affectionately; suddenly, however,
he broke off--"stay, I don't know either, for there's the Grassingham interest come into the
field since the last"----

"Charles, I do really almost think," exclaimed Mrs. Aubrey with sudden emotion, stepping to
his side, and throwing her arms round him affectionately, "that if I were to die, I should
be forgotten in a fortnight if the House were sitting"----

"How can you say such things, my love?" inquired Mr. Aubrey, kissing her forehead.

"When Agnes was born, you know," she murmured inarticulately. Her husband folded her tenderly
in his arms in silence. On the occasion she alluded to, he had nearly lost her; and they both
had reason to expect that another similar season of peril was not very distant.

"Now, Charles, you can't escape," said Miss Aubrey, presently, assuming a cheerful tone; "now
for dear old Yatton!"----

"Yes, Yatton! Positively you must!" added Mrs. Aubrey, smiling through her tears.

"What! Go to Yatton?" said Mr. Aubrey, shaking his head and smiling. "Nonsense! I--i--t ca--n't--be--done!--Why,
we must set off to-morrow! They've had no warning!"

"What warning does mamma require, Charles?" inquired his sister, eagerly. "Isn't the dear old
place always in apple-pie order?"

"How you love the 'dear old place,' Kate!" exclaimed Mr. Aubrey, in such an affectionate tone
as brought his sister in an instant to his side, to urge on her suit; and there stood the lord
of Yatton embraced by these two beautiful women, his own heart (inter nos) seconding every
word they uttered.

"How my mother would stare!" said he at length, irresolutely, looking from one to the other,
and smiling at their eagerness.

"What a bustle everything will be in!" exclaimed Kate. "I fancy I'm there already! The great
blazing fires--the holly and mistletoe. We must all go, Charles--children and all!"

"Why, really, I hardly know"---- said Mr. Aubrey, hesitatingly.

"Oh! I've settled it all," quoth Kate, seeing that she had gained her point, and resolved to
press her advantage, "and, what's more, we've no time to lose; this is Tuesday,--Christmas-day
is Saturday--we must of course stop a night on the way; but hadn't we better have Griffiths
in, to arrange all?" Mr. Aubrey laughed--and--rang the bell.

"Request Mr. Griffiths to come to me," said he to the servant who answered the summons.

Within a very few minutes that respectable functionary had made his appearance and received
his instructions. The march to Shropshire was countermanded--and hey! for Yatton!--for which
they were to start the next day about noon. Mr. Griffiths' first step was to pack off Sam,
Mr. Aubrey's groom, by the Tally-ho, the first coach to York, starting at two o'clock that
very day, with letters announcing the immediate arrival of the family. These orders were received
by Sam, (who had been born and bred at Yatton,) while he was bestowing, with vehement sibilation,
his customary civilities on a favorite mare of his master's. Down dropped his currycomb; he
jumped into the air; snapped his fingers; then he threw his arms round Jenny, and tickled her
under the chin. "Dang it," said he, as he threw her another feed of oats, "I wish thee were
going wi' me--dang'd if I don't!" Then he hastily made himself "a bit tidy;" presented himself
very respectfully before Mr. Griffiths, to receive the wherewithal to pay his fare; and having
obtained it, off he scampered to the Bull and Mouth, as if it had been a neck-and-neck race
between him and all London, which should get down to Yorkshire first. A little after one o'clock,
his packet of letters was delivered to him; and within another hour Sam was to be seen (quite
comfortable, with a draught of spiced ale given him by the cook, to make his hasty dinner "sit
well") on the top of the Tally-ho, rattling rapidly along the great north road.

"Come, Kate," said Mrs. Aubrey, entering Miss Aubrey's room, where she was giving directions
to her maid, "I've ordered the carriage to be at the door as soon as it can be got ready; we
must go off to Coutts'--see!" She held in her hand two slips of paper, one of which she gave
Miss Aubrey. 'Twas a check for one hundred pounds--her brother's usual Christmas-box--"and
then we've a quantity of little matters to buy this afternoon. Come, Kate, quick! quick!"

Now, poor Kate had spent nearly all her money, which circumstance, connected with another that
I shall shortly mention, had given her not a little concern. At her earnest request, her brother
had, about a year before, built her a nice little school, capable of containing some eighteen
or twenty girls, on a slip of land between the vicarage and the park wall of Yatton, and old
Mrs. Aubrey and her daughter found a resident schoolmistress, and, in fact, supported the little
establishment, which, at the time I am speaking of, contained some seventeen or eighteen of
the villagers' younger children. Miss Aubrey took a prodigious interest in this little school,
scarce a day passing without her visiting it when she was at Yatton; and what Kate wanted,
was the luxury of giving a Christmas present to both mistress and scholars. That, however,
she would have had some difficulty in effecting but for this her brother's timely present,
which had quite set her heart at ease. On their return, the carriage was crowded with the things
they had been purchasing--articles of clothing for the feebler old villagers; work-boxes, samplers,
books, testaments, prayer-books, &c. &c. &c., for the school; the sight of which, I can assure
the reader, made Kate far happier than if they had been the costliest articles of dress and
jewelry.

The next day was a very pleasant one for travelling--"frosty, but kindly." About one o'clock
there might have been seen standing before the door the roomy yellow family carriage, with
four post-horses. All was in travelling trim. In the rumble sat Mr. Aubrey's valet and Mrs.
Aubrey's maid--Miss Aubrey's, and one of the nursery-maids, going down by the coach which had
carried Sam--the Tally-ho. The coach-box was piled up with that sort of luggage which, by its
lightness and bulk, denotes lady-travelling: inside were Mrs. and Miss Aubrey muffled in furs,
shawls, and pelisses; a nursery-maid, with little Master and Miss Aubrey, equally well protected
from the cold; and the vacant seat awaited Mr. Aubrey, who at length made his appearance, having
been engaged till the latest moment in giving and repeating specific instructions concerning
the forwarding of his letters and papers. As soon as he had taken his place, and all had been
snugly disposed within, the steps were doubled up, the door was closed, the windows were drawn
up--crack! crack! went the whips of the two postilions, and away rolled the carriage over the
dry hard pavement.

"Now that's what I calls doing it uncommon comfortable," said a pot-boy to one of the footmen
at an adjoining house, where he was delivering the porter for the servants' dinner; "how werry
nice and snug them two looks in the rumble behind!"

"We goes to-morrow," carelessly replied the gentleman whom he had addressed.

"It's a fine thing to be gentlefolk," said the boy, taking up his pot-board.

"Pretty well--but one tires of it in time!" drawled the footman, twitching up his shirt-collar.

On drawing up to the posting-house, which was within about forty miles of Yatton, the Aubreys
found a carriage and four just ready to start, after changing horses; and whose should this
prove to be, but Lord De la Zouch's, containing himself, his lady, and his son, Mr. Delamere!
His lordship and his son both alighted on accidentally discovering who had overtaken them;
and coming up to Mr. Aubrey's carriage windows, exchanged surprised and cordial greetings with
its occupants--whom Lord De la Zouch imagined to have been by this time on their way to Shropshire.
Mr. Delamere manifested a surprising eagerness about the welfare of little Agnes Aubrey, who
happened to be lying fast asleep in Miss Aubrey's lap; but the evening was fast advancing,
and both the travelling parties had yet before them a considerable portion of their journey.
After a hasty promise on the part of each to dine with the other, before returning to town
for the season--a promise which Mr. Delamere at all events resolved should not be lost sight
of--they parted. 'Twas eight o'clock before Mr. Aubrey's eye, which had been for some time
on the look-out, caught sight of Yatton woods; and when it did, his heart yearned towards them.
The moon shone brightly and cheerily, and it was pleasant to listen to the quickening clattering
tramp of the horses upon the dry hard highway, as the travellers rapidly neared a spot endeared
to them by every early and tender association. When they had got within half a mile of the
village, they overtook the worthy vicar, who had mounted his nag, and had been out on the road
to meet the expected comers, for an hour before. Mr. Aubrey roused Mrs. Aubrey from her nap,
to point out Dr. Tatham, who by that time was cantering along beside the open window. 'Twas
refreshing to see the cheerful old man--who looked as ruddy and hearty as ever.

"God bless you all! All well?" he exclaimed, riding close to the window.

"Yes; but how is my mother?" inquired Mr. Aubrey.

"High spirits--high spirits! Was with her this afternoon! Have not seen her better for years!
So surprised! Ah! here's an old friend--Hector!"

"Bow-wow-wow-wow! Bow--Bow-wow!"

"Papa! papa!" exclaimed the voice of little Charles, struggling to get on his father's lap
to look out of the window, "that is Hector! I know it is! He is come to see me! I want to look
at him."

Mr. Aubrey lifted him up as he desired, and a huge black-and-white Newfoundland dog almost
leaped up to the window, at sight of him clapping his little hands, as if in eager recognition,
and then scampered and bounded about in all directions, barking most boisterously, to the infinite
delight of little Aubrey. This messenger had been sent on by Sam, the groom; who, having been
on the look-out for the travellers for some time, the moment he had caught sight of the carriage,
pelted down the village through the park, at top speed, up to the Hall, there to communicate
the good news of their safe arrival. The travellers thought that the village had never looked
so pretty and picturesque before. The sound of the carriage dashing through it, called all
the cottagers to their doors, where they stood bowing and courtesying. It soon reached the
park-gates, which were thrown wide open in readiness for its entrance. As they passed the church,
they heard its little bells ringing a merry peal to welcome their arrival. Its faint chimes
went to their very hearts.

"My darling Agnes, here we are again in the old place," said Mr. Aubrey, in a joyous tone,
affectionately kissing Mrs. Aubrey and his sister, as, after having wound their way up the
park at almost a gallop, they heard themselves rattling over the stone pavement immediately
under the old turreted gateway. On approaching it, they saw lights glancing about in the Hall
windows; and before they had drawn up, the great door was thrown open, and several servants
(one or two of them gray-headed) made their appearance, eager to release the travellers from
their long confinement. A great wood fire was crackling and blazing in the ample fireplace
in the hall opposite the door, casting a right pleasant and cheerful light over the various
antique objects ranged round the walls; but the object on which Mr. Aubrey's eye instantly
settled was the venerable figure of his mother, standing beside the fireplace with one or two
female attendants. The moment that the carriage door was opened, he stepped quickly out, (nearly
tumbling, by the way, over Hector, who appeared to think that the carriage door had been opened
only to enable him to jump into it, which he prepared to do.)

"God bless you, Madam!" said Mr. Aubrey, tenderly, as he received his mother's fervent but
silent greeting, and imagined that the arms folded round him were somewhat feebler than when
he had last felt them embracing him! With similar affection was the good old lady received
by her daughter and daughter-in-law.

"Where is my pony, grandmamma?" quoth little Aubrey, running up to her, (he had been kept quiet,
from time to time, during the last eighty miles or so, by the mention of the aforesaid pony,
which had been sent to the Hall as a present to him some weeks before.) "Where is it? I want
to see my little pony directly! Mamma says you have got a little pony for me with a long tail;
I must see it before I go to bed; I must, indeed--is it in the stable?"

"You shall see it in the morning, my darling--the very first thing," said Mrs. Aubrey, fervently
kissing her beautiful little grandson, while tears of joy and pride ran down her cheek. She
then pressed her lips on the delicate but flushed cheek of little Agnes, who was fast asleep;
and as soon as they had been conducted towards their nursery, Mrs. Aubrey, followed by her
children, led the way to the dining-room--the dear delightful old dining-room, in which all
of them had passed so many happy hours of their lives. It was large and lofty; and two antique
branch silver candlesticks, standing on sconces upon each side of a strange old straggling
carved mantelpiece of inlaid oak, aided by the blaze given out by two immense logs of wood
burning beneath, thoroughly illuminated it. The walls were oak-panelled, containing many pictures,
several of them of great value; and the floor also was of polished oak, over the centre of
which, however, was spread a thick richly-colored Turkey carpet. Opposite the door was a large
mullioned bay-window, then, however, concealed behind an ample flowing crimson curtain. On
the farther side of the fireplace stood a high-backed and roomy armchair, almost covered With
Kate's embroidery, and in which Mrs. Aubrey had evidently, as usual, been sitting till the
moment of their arrival--for on a small ebony table beside it lay her spectacles, and an open
volume. Nearly fronting the fireplace was a recess, in which stood an exquisitely carved black
ebony cabinet, inlaid with white and red ivory. This, Miss Aubrey claimed as her own, and had
appropriated it to her own purposes ever since she was seven years old. "You dear old thing!"
said she, throwing open the folding-doors--"Everything just as I left it! Really, dear mamma,
I could skip about the room for joy! I wish Charles would never leave Yatton again!"

"It's rather lonely, my love, when none of you are with me," said Mrs. Aubrey. "I feel getting
older"----

"Dearest mamma," interrupted Miss Aubrey, quickly, and embracing her mother, "I won't leave
you again! I'm quite tired of town--I am indeed!"

Though fires were lit in their several dressing-rooms, of which they were more than once reminded
by their respective attendants, they all remained seated before the fire in carriage costume,
(except that Kate had thrown aside her bonnet, her half-uncurled tresses hanging in negligent
profusion over her thickly-furred pelisse,) eagerly conversing about the little incidents of
their journey, and the events which had transpired at Yatton since they had quitted it. At
length, however, they retired to perform the refreshing duties of the dressing-room, before
sitting down to supper. Of that comfortable meal, within twenty minutes' time or so, they partook
with a hearty relish. What mortal, however delicate, could resist the fare set before them--the
plump capon, the delicious grilled ham, the poached eggs, the floury potatoes, home-baked bread,
white and brown--custards, mince-pies, home-brewed ale, as soft as milk, as clear as amber--mulled
claret--and so forth? The travellers had evidently never relished anything more, to the infinite
delight of old Mrs. Aubrey; who observing, soon afterwards, irrepressible symptoms of fatigue
and drowsiness, ordered them all off to bed--Kate sleeping in the same chamber in which she
was sitting when the reader was permitted to catch a moonlight glimpse of her.

They did not make their appearance the next morning till after nine o'clock, Mrs. Aubrey having
read prayers before the assembled servants, as usual, nearly an hour before--a duty her son
always performed when at the Hall; but on this occasion he had overslept himself. He found
his mother in the breakfast-room, where she was soon joined by her daughter and daughter-in-law,
all of them being in high health and spirits. Just as they were finishing breakfast, little
Aubrey burst into the room in a perfect ecstasy--for old Jones had taken him round to the stables,
and shown him the little pony which had been recently presented to him. He had heard it neigh--had
seen its long tail--had patted its neck--had seen it eat--and now his vehement prayer was,
that his papa, and mamma, and Kate would immediately go and see it, and take his little sister
also.

Breakfast over, they separated. Old Mrs. Aubrey went to her own room to be attended by her
housekeeper; the other two ladies retired to their rooms--Kate principally engaged in arranging
her presents for her little scholars: and Mr. Aubrey repaired to his library--as delightful
an old snuggery as the most studious recluse could desire--where he was presently attended
by his bailiff. He found that everything was going on as he could have wished. With one or
two exceptions, his rents were paid most punctually; the farms and lands kept in capital condition.
To be sure an incorrigible old poacher had been giving a little trouble, as usual, and stood
committed for trial at the ensuing Spring Assizes; and a few trivial trespasses had been committed
in search of firewood, and other small matters; which, after having been detailed with great
minuteness by his zealous and vigilant bailiff, were despatched by Mr. Aubrey with a "pooh,
pooh!"--Then there was Gregory, who held the smallest farm on the estate, at its southern extremity--he
was three quarters' rent in arrear--but he had a sick wife and seven children--so he was at
once forgiven all that was due, and also what would become due, on the ensuing quarter-day.--"In
fact," said Mr. Aubrey, "don't ask him for any more rent. I'm sure the poor fellow will pay
when he's able."

Some rents were to be raised; others lowered; and some half dozen of the poorer cottages were
to be forthwith put into good repair, at Mr. Aubrey's expense. The two oxen had been sent,
on the preceding afternoon, from the home farm to the butcher's, to be distributed on Christmas
eve among the poorer villagers, according to orders brought down from town by Sam the day before.
Thus was Mr. Aubrey engaged for an hour or two, till luncheon time, when good Dr. Tatham made
his welcome appearance, having been engaged most of the morning in touching up an old Christmas
sermon.

He had been vicar of Yatton for about thirty years, having been presented to it by the late
Mr. Aubrey, with whom he had been intimate at college. He was a delightful specimen of a country
parson. Cheerful, unaffected, and good-natured, there was a dash of quaintness or roughness
about his manners, that reminded you of the crust in very fine old port. He had been a widower,
and childless, for fifteen years. His parish had been ever since his family, whom he still
watched over with an affectionate vigilance. He was respected and beloved by all. Almost every
man, woman, and child that had died in Yatton, during nearly thirty years, had departed with
the sound of his kind and solemn voice in their ears. He claimed a sort of personal acquaintance
with almost all the gravestones in his little churchyard; he knew the names of all who slept
beneath them; and when he looked at those gravestones, his conscience bore him witness, that
he had done his duty by the dust of whom they spoke. He was at the bedside of a sick person
almost as soon, and as often, as the doctor--no matter what sort of weather, or at what hour
of the day or night. Methinks I see him now, bustling about the village, with healthy ruddy
cheek, a clear, cheerful eye, hair white as snow! with a small stout figure, clothed in a suit
of somewhat rusty black, (knee-breeches and gaiters all round the year,) and with a small shovel-hat.
No one lives in the vicarage with him but an elderly woman, his housekeeper, and her husband,
whose chief business is to look after the doctor's old mare and the little garden; in which
I have often seen him and his master, with his coat off, digging for an hour or two together.
He rises at five in the winter, and four in the summer, being occupied till breakfast with
his studies; for he was an excellent scholar, and has not forgotten, in the zealous discharge
of his sacred duties, the pursuits of literature and philosophy, in which he had gained no
inconsiderable distinction in his youth. He derives a very moderate income from his living;
but it is even more than sufficient for his necessities. Ever since Mr. Aubrey's devotion to
politics has carried him away from Yatton for a considerable portion of each year, Dr. Tatham
has been the right hand counsellor of old Mrs. Aubrey, in all her pious and charitable plans
and purposes. Every New-year's day, there come from the Hall to the vicarage six dozen of fine
old port wine--a present from Mrs. Aubrey; but the little doctor (though he never tells her
so) scarce drinks six bottles of them in a year. Two dozen of them go, within a few days' time,
to a poor brother parson in an adjoining parish, who, with his wife and three children--all
in feeble health--can hardly keep body and soul together, and who, but for this generous brother,
would not probably taste wine throughout the year, except on certain occasions when the very
humblest may moisten their poor lips with wine--I mean the SACRAMENT--the sublime and solemn
festival given by One who doth not forget the poor and destitute, however in their misery they
may sometimes think to the contrary!--The remainder of his little present Dr. Tatham distributes
in small quantities among such of his parishioners as may require it, and may not happen to
have come under the immediate notice of Mrs. Aubrey. Dr. Tatham has known Mr. Aubrey ever since
he was about five years old. 'Twas the doctor that first taught him Greek and Latin; and, up
to his going to college, gave him the frequent advantage of his learned experience.--But surely
I have gone into a very long digression, and must return.

While Miss Aubrey, accompanied by her sister-in-law, and followed by a servant carrying a great
bag, filled with articles brought from London the day before, went to the school which I have
before mentioned, in order to distribute her prizes and presents, Mr. Aubrey and Dr. Tatham
set off on a walk through the village.

"I must really do something for that old steeple of yours, Doctor," said Mr. Aubrey, looking
up, and shading his eyes with his hands, as, arm in arm, they approached the church; "it looks
crumbling away in many parts!"

"If you'd only send a couple of masons to repair the porch, and make it weather-tight, it would
satisfy me for some years to come," said the doctor, with exceeding earnestness.

"Well--we'll look at it," replied Aubrey; and, turning aside, they entered the little churchyard.

"How I love this old yew-tree!" he exclaimed, as they passed under it; "it casts a kind of
tender gloom around that always makes me pensive, not to say melancholy!" A sigh escaped him,
as his eye glanced at the family vault, which was almost in the centre of the shade, where
lay his father, three brothers, and a sister, and where, in the course of nature, a few short
years would see the precious remains of his mother deposited. But the doctor who had hastened
forward alone for a moment, finding the church door open, called out to Mr. Aubrey, who soon
stood within the porch. It certainly required a little repairing, which Mr. Aubrey said should
be looked to immediately. "See--we're all preparing for to-morrow," said Dr. Tatham, leading
the way into the little church, where the grizzle-headed clerk was busy decorating the old-fashioned
pulpit, reading-desk, and altar-piece, with the cheerful emblems of the season.

"I never see these," said the doctor, taking up one of the sprigs of mistletoe lying on a form
beside them, "but I think of your own Christmas verses, Mr. Aubrey, when you were younger and
fresher than you now are--don't you recollect them?"

"Oh--pooh!" quoth Aubrey, somewhat hastily.

"But I remember them," rejoined the doctor; and he began with great emphasis and solemnity--

    "Hail! silvery, modest mistletoe,
    Wreath'd round winter's brow of snow,
    Clinging so chastely, tenderly:
    Hail holly, darkly, richly green,
    Whose crimson berries blush between
    Thy prickly foliage, modestly.
    Ye winter-flowers, bloom sweet and fair,
    Though Nature's garden else be bare--
    Ye vernal glistening emblems, meet
    To twine a Christmas coronet!"

"That will do, Doctor," interrupted Aubrey, smiling--"what a memory you have for trifles!"

"Peggy! Peggy!--you're sadly overdoing it," said the doctor, hastily, calling out to the sexton's
wife, who was busy at work in the squire's pew--a large square pew in the nave, near the pulpit.
"Why, do you want to hide the squire's family from the congregation? You're putting quite a
holly hedge all round!"

"Please you, sir," quoth Peggy, "I've got so much I don't know where to put it--so, in course,
I put it here!"

"Then," said the doctor, with a smile, looking round the church, "let Jonas get up and stick
some of it into those old hatchments; and," looking up at the clerk, busy at work in the pulpit,
"don't you put quite so much up there into my candlesticks!"

With this the parson and the squire took their departure. As they passed slowly up the village,
which already wore a sort of holiday aspect, they met on all hands with a cordial, respectful,
and affectionate greeting. The quiet little public-house turned out some four or five stout
steady fellows--all tenants of Mr. Aubrey's--with their pipes in their hands, and who took
off their hats, and bowed very low. Mr. Aubrey went up and entered into conversation with them
for some minutes. Their families and farms, he found, were well and thriving. There was quite
a little crowd of women about the shop of Nick Steele, the butcher, who, with an extra hand
to help him, was giving out the second ox which had been sent from the Hall, to the persons
whose names had been given in to him from Mrs. Aubrey. Farther on, some were cleaning their
little windows, others sweeping their floors, and sprinkling sand over them; most were displaying
holly and mistletoe in their windows, and over their mantelpieces. Everywhere, in short, was
to be seen that air of quiet preparation for the solemnly-cheerful morrow, which fills a thoughtful
English observer with feelings of pensive but exquisite satisfaction.

Mr. Aubrey returned home towards dusk, cheered and enlivened by his walk. His sudden plunge
into the simplicity and comparative solitude of country life--and that country Yatton--had
quite refreshed his feelings, and given a tone to his spirits. Of course Dr. Tatham was to
dine at the Hall on the morrow; if he did not, indeed, it would have been for the first time
during the last five-and-twenty years!

Christmas eve passed pleasantly and quietly enough at the Hall. After dinner the merry little
ones were introduced, and their prattle and romps occupied an hour right joyously. As soon
as, smothered with kisses, they had been dismissed to bed, old Mrs. Aubrey composed herself,
in her great chair, to her usual after-dinner's nap; while her son, his wife, and sister, sitting
fronting the fire--a decanter or two, and a few wine-glasses and dessert, remaining on the
table behind them--sat conversing in a subdued tone, now listening to the wind roaring in the
chimney--a sound which not a little enhanced their sense of comfort--then criticising the disposition
of the evergreens with which the room was plenteously decorated, and laying out their movements
during the ensuing fortnight. Mrs. Aubrey and Kate were, with affectionate earnestness, contrasting
to Aubrey the peaceful pleasures of a country life with the restless excitement and endless
anxieties of a London political life, to which they saw him more and more addicting himself;
he all the while playfully parrying their attacks, but secretly acknowledging the truth and
force of what they said, when--hark!--a novel sound from without, which roused the old lady
from her nap. What do you think, dear reader, it was?

"I do believe it is!" quoth Kate, her eyes suddenly filling with tears, as she sat eagerly
inclining her ear towards the window.

"They must be standing on the grass-plot just before the window," said Mr. Aubrey: the tiny
voices were thrilling his very heart within him. His sensitive nature might have been compared
to a delicate Æolian harp which gave forth, with the slightest breath of accident or circumstance,--

    "The still, sad music of humanity."

In a few moments he was almost in tears--the sounds were so unlike the fierce and turbulent
cries of political warfare to which his ears had been latterly accustomed! The more the poor
children sang, the more was he affected. Kate's tears fell fast, for she had been in an excited
mood before this little incident occurred. "Do you hear, mamma," said she, "the voice of the
poor little thing that was last taken into the school? The little darling!" Kate tried to smile
away her emotion; but 'twas in vain. Mr. Aubrey gently drew aside the curtain, and pulled up
the central blind--and there, headed by their matron, stood the little singers exposed to view,
some eighteen in number, ranged in a row on the grass, all in snug gray woollen hoods effectually
protecting them from the cold. The oldest seemed not more than ten or twelve years old, while
the younger ones could not be more than five or six. They seemed all singing from their very
hearts. Aubrey stood looking at them with very deep interest.

As soon as they had finished their hymn, they were conducted into the housekeeper's room, according
to orders sent for that purpose, from Mrs. Aubrey, and each of them received a little present
of money, besides a full glass of Mrs. Jackson's choicest raisin wine, and a currant bun; Kate
slipping half-a-guinea into the hand of their mistress, to whose wish to afford gratification
to the inmates of the Hall was entirely owing the little incident which had so pleased and
surprised them. "A happy Christmas to you, dear papa and mamma!" said little Aubrey, about
eight o'clock the next morning, pushing aside the curtains, and trying to clamber up on the
high bed where Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey were still asleep--soon, however, they were awakened by
the dear welcome voice! The morning promised a beautiful day. The air, though cold, was clear;
and the branches of the trees visible from their windows, were all covered with hoar-frost,
which seemed to line them as if with silver fringe. The little bells of Yatton church were
ringing a merry peal; but how different in tone and strength from the clangor of the London
church-bells!--Christmas was indeed at last arrived--and cheerful were the greetings of those
who soon after met at the bountiful breakfast table. Old Mrs. Aubrey was going to church with
them--in fact, not even a domestic who could be possibly spared, was to be left at home. By
the time that the carriage, with the fat and lazy-looking gray horses, was at the Hall door,
the sun had burst out in beauty from an almost cloudless sky. The three ladies rode alone;
Aubrey preferring to walk, accompanied by his little son, as the ground was dry and hard, and
the distance very short. A troop of some twelve or fourteen servants, male and female, presently
followed; and then came Mr. Aubrey, leading along the heir of Yatton--a boy of whom he might
well be proud, as the future possessor of his name, his fortune, and his honors. When he had
reached the church, the carriage was returning home. Almost the whole congregation stood collected
before the church door, to see the squire's family enter; and reverent were the courtesies
and bows with which old Mrs. Aubrey and her lovely companions were received. Very soon after
they had taken their places, Mr. Aubrey and his son made their appearance; objects they were
of the deepest interest, as they passed along to their pew. A few minutes afterwards little
Dr. Tatham entered the church in his surplice, (which he almost always put on at home,) with
a face, composed and serious to be sure, but yet overspread with an expression even more bland
and benignant than usual. He knew there was not a soul among the little crowd around him that
did not really love him, and that did not know how heartily he returned their love. All eyes
were of course on the squire's pew. Mrs. Aubrey was looking well--her daughter and daughter-in-law
were thought by all to be by far the most beautiful women in the world--what must people think
of them in London? Mr. Aubrey looked, they thought, pleased and happy, but rather paler, and
even a little thinner; and as for the "little squire," with his bright eyes, his rosy cheeks,
his arch smile, his curling auburn hair--and so like his father and mother--he was the pride
of Yatton!

Dr. Tatham read prayers, as he always did; with great distinctness and deliberation, so that
everybody in the church, young and old, could catch every syllable; and he preached, considerately
enough, a very short sermon--pithy, homely, and affectionate. He reminded them that he was
then preaching his thirty-first Christmas-day sermon from that pulpit! The service and the
sacrament over, none of the congregation moved from their places till the occupants of the
squire's pew had quitted it; but as soon as they had got outside of the door, the good people
poured out after them, and almost lined the way from the church door to the gate at which the
carriage stood, receiving and answering a hundred kind inquiries concerning themselves, their
families, and their circumstances.

Mr. Aubrey stayed behind, desirous of taking another little ramble with Dr. Tatham through
the village, for the day was indeed bright and beautiful, and the occasion inspiriting. There
was not a villager within four or five miles of the Hall who did not sit down that day to a
comfortable little relishing dinner, at least one-third of them being indebted for it directly
to the bounty of the Aubreys. As soon as Dr. Tatham had taken off his gown, he accompanied
Mr. Aubrey in cheerful mood, in the briskest spirits. 'T was delightful to see the smoke come
curling out of every chimney, while few folk were visible out of doors; whence you reasonably
concluded that they were all housed, and preparing for, or partaking of, their roast-beef and
plum-pudding! Now and then the bustling wife would show her heated red face at the door, and
hastily courtesy as they passed, then returning to dish up her little dinner.

"Ah, ha; Mr. Aubrey!--isn't such a day as this worth a whole year in town?" exclaimed Dr. Tatham.

"Both have their peculiar advantages, Doctor; the pleasure of the contrast would be lost if"----

"Contrast! Believe me, in the language of the poet Virgil"----

"Ah! how goes on old blind Bess, Doctor?" interrupted Aubrey, as they approached the smallest
cottage in the village--in fact the very last.

"She's just the same as she has been these last twenty years. Shall we look in on the old creature?"

"With all my heart. I hope, poor soul! that she has not been overlooked on this festive occasion."

"Trust Mrs. Aubrey for that! I'll answer for it, we shall find old Bess as happy, in her way,
as she can be."

This was a stone blind old woman, who had been bedridden for the last twenty years. She had
certainly passed her hundredth year--some said two or three years before--and had lived in
her present little cottage for nearly half a century, having grown out of the recollection
of almost all the inhabitants of the village. She had long been a pensioner of Mrs. Aubrey's,
by whom alone, indeed, she was supported. Her great age, her singular appearance, and a certain
rambling way of talking that she had, had long earned her the reputation, in the village, of
being able to say strange things; and one or two of the old gossips knew of things coming to
pass according to what--poor old soul--she had predicted!

Dr. Tatham gently pushed open the door. The cottage consisted, in fact, of but one room, and
that a very small one, and lit by only one little window. The floor was clean, and evidently
just fresh sanded. On a wooden stool, opposite a fireplace, on which a small saucepan was placed,
sat a girl about twelve years old, (a daughter of the woman who lived nearest,) crumbling some
bread into a basin, with some broth in it. On a narrow bed against the wall, opposite the window,
was to be seen the somewhat remarkable figure of the solitary old tenant of the cottage. She
was sitting up, resting against the pillow, which was placed on end against the wall. She was
evidently a very tall woman; and her long, brown, wrinkled, shrivelled face, with prominent
cheekbones and bushy white eyebrows, betokened the possession, in earlier days, of a most masculine
expression of features. Her hair, white as snow, was gathered back from her forehead, under
a spreading plain white cap; and her sightless eyes, wide open, stared forward with a startling
and somewhat sinister expression. She was wrapped round in a clean white bedgown; and her long
thin arms lay straight before her on the outside of the bedclothes. Her lips were moving, as
if she were talking to herself.

"She's a strange-looking object, indeed!" exclaimed Mr. Aubrey, as he and Dr. Tatham stood
watching her for a few moments in silence.

"Dame! dame!" said the doctor, loudly, approaching her bedside, "how are you to-day? It's Christmas-day--I
wish you a merry Christmas."

"Ay, ay--merry, merry!" echoed the old woman, with a half-groan. "More the merrier! I've seen
a hundred and nine of them!"

"You seem comfortable enough, dame," said Mr. Aubrey, kindly. "I hope you are?"

"They won't give me my broth--my broth," said she, peevishly.

"It's coming, granny," called out the shrill voice of the girl sitting before the fire, quickening
her motions.

"Here's the squire come to see you, dame, and he wishes you a happy Christmas," said Dr. Tatham,
loudly.

"What! the squire? Alive yet? Ah, well-a-day! well-a-day!" said she, in a feeble, mournful
tone, slowly rubbing together her long, skinny, wrinkled hands, on the backs of which the veins
stood out like knotted whipcord. She repeated the last words several times, in a truly doleful
tone, gently shaking her head.

"Granny's been very sad, sir, to-day, and cried two or three times," said the little girl,
stirring about the hot broth.

"Poor squire! doth he not look sad?" inquired the old woman.

"Why should I, dame? What have I to fear?" said Mr. Aubrey, somewhat quickly.

"Merry in the Hall! all, merry! merry! But no one has heard it except old blind Bess. Where's
the squire?" she added, suddenly turning full towards the spot where they were standing--and
her face seemed whitened with emotion. Her staring eyes were settled on Mr. Aubrey's face,
as if she saw him distinctly, and were reading his very soul.

"Here I am, dame," said he, with a great deal of curiosity, to say the least of it.

"Give me your hand, Squire," said she, stretching out her left arm, and working about her talon-like
fingers, as if in eagerness to grasp Mr. Aubrey's hand, which he gave her.

"Never fear! never, never! Happy in the Hall! I see all! How long"----

"Why, dame, this is truly a very pleasant greeting of yours," interposed Dr. Tatham, with a smile.

"Short and bitter! long and sweet! Put your trust in God, Squire."

"I hope I do, granny," replied Mr. Aubrey, seriously.

"I see! I hear!--my broth! my broth!--where is it?"

"Here it is, granny," said the girl--"It's all ready!"

"Good-day, dame," said Mr. Aubrey, gently disengaging his hand from hers; and before they had
left the cottage, she began to swallow very greedily the broth with which the little girl fed her.

"This is the sort of way in which this old superannuated creature has frightened one or two of"----

"Is it indeed?" inquired Mr. Aubrey, with a sort of mechanical smile. Dr. Tatham saw that he
was in a somewhat serious humor.

"She's alarmed you, I protest!--I protest she has!" exclaimed the doctor, with a slight laugh,
as they walked along. Now, he knew the disposition and character of Aubrey intimately; and
was well aware of a certain tendency which he had to superstition.

"My dear doctor, I assure you that you are mistaken--I am indeed not alarmed--but at the same
time I will tell you something not a little singular. Would you believe that a month or two
ago, when in town, I dreamed that I heard some one uttering something very much like the words
which we have just heard from this old woman?"

"Ah! ha, ha!" laughed the doctor; and, after a second or two's pause, Aubrey, as if ashamed
of what he had said, echoed the laugh, and their conversation passed on to political topics,
which kept them engaged for the remainder of their walk, Mr. Aubrey quitting his companion
at the door of the vicarage, to be rejoined by him at five o'clock, the dinner hour at the
Hall. As Mr. Aubrey walked along the park, the shades of evening casting a deepening gloom
around him, his thoughts involuntarily recurred to the cottage of old blind Bess, and he felt
vague apprehensions flitting with darkening shade across his mind. Though he was hardly weak
enough to attach any definite meaning or importance to the gibberish he had heard, it still
had left an unpleasant impression, and he was vexed at feeling a wish that the incident--trifling
as he was willing to believe it--should not be mentioned by Dr. Tatham at the Hall; and still
more was he excited when he recollected that he had purposely abstained from requesting the
good doctor not to do so. All this undoubtedly implied that the matter had occupied Mr. Aubrey's
thoughts to a greater extent than he secretly relished. On reaching, however, the Hall door,
this brief pressure on his feelings quickly ceased; for on entering, he saw Mrs. Aubrey, his
sister, and his two children, at high romps together in the hall, and he heartily joined in them.

CHAPTER VIII.

By five o'clock the little party were seated at the cheerful dinner-table, glistening with
the old family plate and that kind of fare, at once substantial and luxurious, which befitted
the occasion. Old Mrs. Aubrey, in her simple white turban and black velvet dress, presided
with a kind of dignified cheerfulness which was delightful to see. Kate had contrived to make
herself look more lovely even than usual, wearing a dress of dark blue satin, tastefully trimmed
with blonde, and which exquisitely comported with her beautiful complexion. Oh that Delamere
had been sitting opposite to, or beside her! The more matured proportions of her blooming sister-in-law
appeared to infinite advantage in a rich green velvet dress, while a superb diamond glistened
with subdued lustre in her beautiful bosom. She wore no ornaments in her dark hair, which was,
as indeed might be said of Kate, "when unadorned, adorned the most." The gray-headed old butler,
(as brisk as his choicest champagne,) and the two steady-looking old family servants, going
about their business with quiet celerity--the delicious air of antique elegance around them--the
sense of profound seclusion--of remoteness from the exciting hubbub of the world--in every
respect this was a Christmas dinner after one's own heart! Oh the merry and dear old Yatton!
And as if there were not loveliness enough already in the room, behold the door suddenly pushed
open, as soon as the dessert is arrayed on the table, and run up to his gay and laughing mother,
her little son, his ample snowy collar resting gracefully on his crimson velvet dress. 'Tis
her hope and pride--her first-born--the little squire; but where is his sister?--where is Agnes?
'Tis even as Charles says--she fell asleep in the very act of being dressed, and they were
obliged to put her to bed; so Charles is alone in his glory. You may well fold your delicate
white arm around him, mamma!--

His little gold cup is nearly filled to join in the first toast: are you all--dear little circle!--are
you all ready? The worthy doctor has poured old Mrs. Aubrey's, and young Mrs. Aubrey's, and
Kate's glass full up to the brim:--"Our next Christmas!" quoth he, cheerily elevating his glass.

Yes, your next Christmas! The vigilant eye of Dr. Tatham alone perceived a faint change of
color in Mr. Aubrey's cheek as the words were uttered; and his eye wandered for an instant,
as if tracing across the room the image of old blind Bess; but 'twas gone in a moment; Aubrey
was soon in much higher spirits than usual. Well he might be. How could man be placed in happier
circumstances than he was? As soon as the three ladies had withdrawn, together with little
Aubrey, the doctor and Mr. Aubrey drew their chairs before the fire, and enjoyed a long hour's
pleasant conversation, on matters domestic and political. As to the latter, the doctor and
the squire were stout Tories; and a speech which Aubrey had lately delivered in the House,
on the Catholic claims, had raised him to a pitch of eminence in the doctor's estimation, where
Aubrey had very few men in the country to keep him company. The doctor here got on very fast
indeed; and was just assuring the squire that he saw dark days in store for Old England from
the machinations of the Papists; and that, for his part, he should rejoice to "seal his testimony
with his blood," and would go to the stake not only without flinching, but rejoicing--(all
which I verily believe he verily believed he would have done) and coveting the crown of martyrdom--when
Aubrey caught the sound of his sister playing on the organ, a noble instrument, which a year
or two before, at her urgent request, he had purchased and placed in the drawing-room, whither
he and the doctor at once repaired. 'Twas a spacious and lofty room, well calculated for the
splendid instrument which occupied the large recess fronting the door. Miss Aubrey was playing
Handel, and with an exquisite perception of his matchless power and beauty. Hark! did you ever
hear the grand yet simple recitative she is now commencing?

The doctor officiated as chaplain that evening. The room was almost filled with servants, many
of whose looks very plainly showed the merry doings which must have been going on in the servants'
hall. Some could scarce keep their eyes open; one or two sat winking at each other! and others
were fairly asleep, and snoring! Under the circumstances, therefore, the doctor, with much
judgment, read very short prayers, and immediately afterwards took his departure for his snug
little vicarage. The moon shone brightly, the air was clear and bracing, and he felt as blithe
as a bird as he walked homeward!

The next morning, which proved as fine as the preceding, Mr. Aubrey was detained in-doors with
his letters, and one or two other little matters of business in his library, till luncheon
time. "What say you, Kate, to a ride round the country?" said he, on taking his seat. Kate
was delighted; and forthwith the horses were ordered to be got ready as soon as possible.

"You must not mind a little rough riding, Kate, by the way," said Aubrey; "for we shall have
to get over some ugly places!--I'm going to meet Waters at the end of the avenue, about that
old sycamore--we must have it down at last."

"Oh no, Charles, no; I thought we had settled that last year!" replied Kate, earnestly.

"Pho! if it had not been for you, Kate, it would have been down two years ago at least. Its
hour is come at last; 'tis indeed, so no pouting! It is injuring the other trees; and, besides,
it spoils the prospect from the left wing of the house."

"'Tis only Waters that puts all these things into your head, Charles, and I shall let him know
my opinion on the subject when I see him! Mamma, haven't you a word to say for the old"----

But Mr. Aubrey, not deeming it discreet to await the new force which was being brought against
him, started off to inspect a newly purchased horse, just brought to the stables.

Kate, who really became everything, looked charming in her blue riding-habit and hat, sitting
on her horse with infinite ease and grace; in fact, a capital horsewoman. The exercise soon
brought a rich bloom upon her cheek; and as she cantered along the road by the side of her
brother, no one could have met them without being almost startled at her beauty. Just as they
had dropped into an easy walk--

"Charles," said she, observing two horsemen approaching them, "who can these be? Heavens! did
you ever see such figures? And how they ride!"

"Why, certainly," replied her brother, smiling, "they look a brace of arrant Cockneys! Ah,
ha!--what can they be doing in these parts?"

"Dear me, what puppies!" exclaimed Miss Aubrey, lowering her voice as they neared the persons
she spoke of.

"They are certainly a most extraordinary couple! Who can they be?" said Mr. Aubrey, a smile
forcing itself into his features. One of the gentlemen thus referred to, was dressed in a light
blue surtout, with the tip of a white pocket-handkerchief seen peeping out of a pocket in the
front of it. His hat, with scarce any brim to it, was stuck aslant on the top of a bushy head
of queer-colored hair. His shirt-collar was turned down completely over his stock, displaying
a great quantity of dirt-colored hair under his chin; while a pair of mustaches, of the same
color, were sprouting upon his upper lip, and a perpendicular tuft depended from his under
lip. A quizzing-glass was stuck in his right eye, and in his hand he carried a whip with a
shining silver head. The other was almost equally distinguished by the elegance of his appearance.
He had a glossy hat, a purple-colored velvet waistcoat, two pins connected by little chains
in his stock, a bottle-green surtout, sky-blue trousers, and a most splendid riding-whip. In
short, who should these be but our old friends, Messrs. Titmouse and Snap? Whoever they might
be--and whatever their other accomplishments, it was plain that they were perfect novices on
horseback; and their horses had every appearance of having been much fretted and worried by
their riders. To the surprise of Mr. Aubrey and his sister, these two personages attempted
to rein in as they neared, and evidently intended to speak to them.

"Pray--a--sir, will you, sir, tell us," commenced Titmouse, with a desperate attempt to appear
at his ease, as he tried to make his horse stand still for a moment--"isn't there a place called--called"--here
his horse, whose sides were constantly being galled by the spurs of its unconscious rider,
began to back a little; then to go on one side, and, in Titmouse's fright, his glass dropped
from his eye, and he seized hold of the pommel. Nevertheless, to show the lady how completely
he was at his ease all the while, he levelled a great many oaths and curses at the unfortunate
eyes and soul of his wayward brute; who, however, not in the least moved by them, but infinitely
disliking the spurs of its rider and the twisting round of its mouth by the reins, seemed more
and more inclined for mischief, and backed close up to the edge of the ditch.

"I'm afraid, sir," said Mr. Aubrey, kindly and very earnestly, "you are not much accustomed
to riding. Will you permit me"----

"Oh, yes--ye--ye--s, sir, I am though,--uncommon--whee-o-uy! whuoy!"--(then a fresh volley
of oaths.) "Oh, dear, 'pon my soul--ho! my eyes!--what--what is he going to do! Snap! Snap!"--'T
was, however, quite in vain to call on that gentleman for assistance; for he had grown as pale
as death, on finding that his own brute seemed strongly disposed to follow the infernal example
(or rather, as it were, the converse of it) of the other, and was particularly inclined to
rear up on its hind-legs. The very first motion of that sort brought Snap's heart (not large
enough, perhaps, to choke him) into his mouth. Titmouse's beast, in the mean while, suddenly
wheeled round; and throwing its hind feet into the air, sent its terrified rider flying head
over heels into the very middle of the hedge, from which he dropped into the soft wet ditch
on the road-side. Both Mr. Aubrey and his groom immediately dismounted, and secured the horse,
who, having got rid of its ridiculous rider, stood perfectly quiet. Titmouse proved to be more
frightened than hurt. His hat was crushed flat on his head, and half the left side of his face
covered with mud--as, indeed, were his clothes all the way down. The groom (almost splitting
with laughter) helped him on his horse again; and as Mr. and Miss Aubrey were setting off--"I
think, sir," said the former, politely, "you were inquiring for some place?"

"Yes, sir," quoth Snap. "Isn't there a place called Ya--Yat--Yat--(be quiet, you brute!)--Yatton
about here?"

"Yes, sir--straight on," replied Mr. Aubrey. Miss Aubrey hastily threw her veil over her face,
to conceal her laughter, urging on her horse; and she and her brother were soon out of sight
of the strangers.

"I say, Snap," quoth Titmouse, when he had in a measure cleansed himself, and they had both
got a little composed, "see that lovely gal?"

"Fine gal--devilish fine!" replied Snap.

"I'm blessed if I don't think--'pon my life, I believe we've met before!"

"Didn't seem to know you though!"---- quoth Snap, somewhat dryly.

"Ah! you don't know--How uncommon infernal unfortunate to happen just at the moment when"----
Titmouse became silent; for all of a sudden he recollected when and where, and under what circumstances
he had seen Miss Aubrey before, and which his vanity would not allow of his telling Snap. The
fact was, that she had once accompanied her sister-in-law to Messrs. Tag-rag and Company's,
to purchase some small matter of mercery. Titmouse had served them; and his absurdity of manner
and personal appearance had provoked a smile, which Titmouse a little misconstrued; for when,
a Sunday or two afterwards, he met her in the Park, the little fool actually had the presumption
to nod to her--she having not the slightest notion who the little wretch might be--and of course
not having, on the present occasion, the least recollection of him. The reader will recollect
that this incident made a deep impression on the mind of Mr. Titmouse.

The coincidence was really not a little singular--but to return to Mr. Aubrey and his sister.
After riding a mile or two farther up the road, they leaped over a very low mound or fence,
which formed the extreme boundary of that part of the estate, and having passed through a couple
of fields, they entered the eastern extremity of that fine avenue of elms, at the higher end
of which stood Kate's favorite tree, and also Waters and his under-bailiff--who looked to her
like a couple of executioners, only awaiting the fiat of her brother. The sun shone brightly
upon the doomed sycamore--"the axe was laid at its root." As they rode up the avenue, Kate
begged very hard for mercy; but for once her brother seemed obdurate--the tree, he said, must
come down--'t was all nonsense to think of leaving it standing any longer!--

"Remember, Charles," said she, passionately, as they drew up, "how we've all of us romped and
sported under it! Poor papa also"----

"See, Kate, how rotten it is," said her brother; and riding close to it, with his whip he snapped
off two or three of its feeble silvery-gray branches--"it's high time for it to come down."

"It fills the grass all round with little branches, sir, whenever there's the least breath
of wind," said Waters.

"It won't hardly hold a crow's weight on the topmost branches, sir," added Dickons, the under-bailiff,
very modestly.

"Had it any leaves last summer?" inquired Mr. Aubrey.

"I don't think, sir," replied Waters, "it had a hundred all over it!"

"Really, Kate," said her brother, "'t is such a melancholy, unsightly object, when seen from
any part of the Hall"--turning round on his horse to look at the rear of the Hall, which was
at about two hundred yards' distance. "It looks such an old withered thing among the fresh
green trees around it--'t is quite a painful contrast." Kate had gently urged on her horse
while her brother was speaking, till she was close beside him. "Charles," said she, in a low
whisper, "does not it remind you a little of poor old mamma, with her gray hairs, among her
children and grandchildren? She is not out of place among us--is she?" Her eyes filled with
tears. So did her brother's.

"Dearest Kate," said he, with emotion, affectionately grasping her little hand, "you have triumphed!
The old tree shall never be cut down in my time! Waters, let the tree stand; and if anything
is to be done to it--let the greatest possible care be taken of it." Miss Aubrey turned her
head aside to conceal her emotion. Had they been alone, she would have flung her arms round
her brother's neck.

"If I were to speak my mind, sir," said the compliant Waters, seeing the turn things were taking,
"I should say, with our young lady, the old tree's quite a kind of ornament in this here situation,
and (as one might say) it sets off the rest." [It was he who had been worrying Mr. Aubrey for
these last three years to have it cut down!]

"Well," replied Mr. Aubrey, "however that may be, let me hear no more of cutting it down--Ah!
what does old Jolter want here?" said he, observing an old tenant of that name, almost bent
double with age, hobbling towards them. He was wrapped up in a coarse thick blue coat; his
hair was long and white; his eyes dim and glassy with age.

"I don't know, sir--I'll go and see," said Waters.

"What's the matter, Jolter?" he inquired, stepping forward to meet him.

"Nothing much, sir," replied the old man, feebly, and panting, taking off his hat, and bowing
very low towards Mr. and Miss Aubrey.

"Put your hat on, my old friend," said Mr. Aubrey, kindly.

"I only come to bring you this bit of paper, sir, if you please," said the old man, addressing
Waters. "You said, a while ago, as how I was always to bring you papers that were left with
me; and this"--taking one out of his pocket--"was left with me only about an hour ago. It's
seemingly a lawyer's paper, and was left by an uncommon gay young chap. He asked me my name,
and then he looked at the paper, and read it all over to me, but I couldn't make anything of it."

"What is it?" inquired Mr. Aubrey, as Waters cast his eye over a sheet of paper, partly printed
and partly written.

"Why, it seems the old story, sir--that slip of waste land, sir. Mr. Tomkins is at it again, sir."

"Well, if he chooses to spend his money in that way, I can't help it," said Mr. Aubrey, with
a smile. "Let me look at the paper." He did so. "Yes, it seems the same kind of thing as before.
Well," handing it back, "send it to Mr. Parkinson, and tell him to look to it; and, at all
events, take care that poor old Jolter comes to no trouble by the business. How's the old wife,
Jacob?"

"She's dreadful bad with rheumatis, sir; but the stuff that Madam sends her does her a woundy
deal of good, sir, in her inside."

"Well, we must try if we can't send you some more; and, harkee, if the goodwife doesn't get
better soon, send us up word to the Hall, and we'll have the doctor call on her. Now, Kate,
let us away homeward." And they were soon out of sight.

I do not intend to deal so unceremoniously or summarily as Mr. Aubrey did, with the document
which had been brought to his notice by Jolter, then handed over to Waters, and by him, according
to orders, transmitted the next day to Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Aubrey's attorney. It was what is
called a "DECLARATION IN EJECTMENT;" touching which, in order to throw a ray or two of light
upon a document which will make no small figure in this history, I shall try to give the reader
a little information on the point; and hope that a little attention to what now follows, will
be repaid in due time. Here beginneth a little lecture on law.

If Jones claim a debt, or goods, or damages, from Smith, one should think that, if he went
to law, the action would be entitled "Jones versus Smith;" and so it is. But behold, if it
be LAND which is claimed by Jones from Smith, the style and name of the cause stand thus:--"DOE,
on the demise of Jones, versus ROE." Instead, therefore, of Jones and Smith fighting out the
matter in their own proper names, they set up a couple of puppets, (called "John Doe" and "Richard
Roe,") who fall upon one another in a very quaint fashion, after the manner of Punch and Judy.
John Doe pretends to be the real plaintiff, and Richard Roe the real defendant. John Doe says
that the land which Richard Roe has, is his, (the said John Doe's,) because Jones (the real
plaintiff) gave him a lease of it; and Jones is then called "the lessor of the plaintiff."
John Doe further says that one Richard Roe, (who calls himself by the very significant and
expressive name of a "Casual Ejector,") came and turned him out, and so John Doe brings his
action against Richard Roe. 'Tis a fact, that whenever land is sought to be recovered in England,
this anomalous and farcical proceeding must be adopted.[15] It is the duty of the real plaintiff
(Jones) to serve on the real defendant (Smith) a copy of the queer document which I shall proceed
to lay before the reader; and also to append to it an affectionate note, intimating the serious
consequences which will ensue upon inattention or contumacy. The "Declaration," then, which
had been served upon old Jolter, was in the words, letters, and figures following--that is
to say:--

     "IN THE KING'S BENCH.
                                 "Michaelmas Term, the---- of King----.

     "YORKSHIRE, to-wit--Richard Roe was attached to answer John Doe of
     a plea wherefore the said Richard Roe, with force and arms, &c.,
     entered into two messuages, two dwelling-houses, two cottages, two
     stables, two out-houses, two yards, two gardens, two orchards,
     twenty acres of land covered with water, twenty acres of arable
     land, twenty acres of pasture land, and twenty acres of other land,
     with the appurtenances, situated in Yatton, in the county of
     York, which TITTLEBAT TITMOUSE, Esquire, had demised to the said
     John Doe for a term which is not yet expired, and ejected him from
     his said farm, and other wrongs to the said John Doe there did, to
     the great damage of the said John Doe, and against the peace of our
     Lord the King, &c.; and Thereupon the said John Doe, by OILY
     GAMMON, his attorney, complains,--

     "That whereas the said TITTLEBAT TITMOUSE, on the --th day of
     August, in the year of our Lord 18--, at Yatton aforesaid, in the
     county aforesaid, had demised the same tenements, with the
     appurtenances, to the said John Doe, to have and to hold the same
     to the said John Doe and his assigns thenceforth, for and during,
     and unto the full end and term of twenty years thence next ensuing,
     and fully to be completed and ended: By virtue of which said
     demise, the said John Doe entered into the said tenements, with the
     appurtenances, and became and was thereof possessed for the said
     term, so to him thereof granted as aforesaid. Wherefore the said John Doe
     saith that he is injured, and hath sustained damage to the value of
     £50, and therefore he brings his suit, &c.

     "SQUEAL, for the Plaintiff.  { Pledges of   } John Den.
     GROWL, for the Defendant.    { Prosecution. } Richard Fenn.

     "MR. JACOB JOLTER,

     "I am informed that you are in possession of, or claim title to,
     the premises in this Declaration of Ejectment mentioned, or to some
     part thereof: And I, being sued in this action as a casual
     ejector only, and having no claim or title to the same, do advise
     you to appear, next Hilary term, in His Majesty's Court of King's
     Bench at Westminster, by some attorney of that Court; and then and
     there, by a rule to be made of the same Court, to cause yourself to
     be made defendant in my stead; otherwise, I shall suffer judgment
     to be entered against me by default, and you will be turned out of
     possession.

                           "Your loving friend,
                                                           RICHARD ROE.
     "Dated this 8th day of December 18--."[16]

You may regard the above document in the light of a deadly and destructive missile, thrown
by an unperceived enemy into a peaceful citadel; attracting no particular notice from the innocent
unsuspecting inhabitants--among whom, nevertheless, it presently explodes, and all is terror,
death, and ruin.

Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Aubrey's solicitor, who resided at Grilston, the post-town nearest to Yatton,
from which it was distant about six or seven miles, was sitting on the evening of Tuesday the
28th December 18--, in his office, nearly finishing a letter to his London agents, Messrs.
Runnington and Company--one of the most eminent firms in the profession--and which he was desirous
of despatching by that night's mail. Among other papers which have come into my hands in connection
with this history, I have happened to light on the letter which he was writing; and as it is
not long, and affords a specimen of the way in which business is carried on between town and
country attorneys and solicitors, here followeth a copy of it:--

                                                "Grilston, 28th Dec. 18--.

     "DEAR SIRS,

                              "Re Middleton.

     "Have you got the marriage-settlements between these parties ready?
     If so, please send them as soon as possible; for both the lady's
     and gentleman's friends are (as usual in such cases) very pressing
     for them.

                          "Puddinghead v. Quickwit.

     "Plaintiff bought a horse of defendant in November last, 'warranted
     sound,' and paid for it on the spot £64. A week afterwards, his
     attention was accidentally drawn to the animal's head; and to his
     infinite surprise, he discovered that the left eye was a glass
     eye, so closely resembling the other in color, that the difference
     could not be discovered except on a very close examination. I have
     seen it myself, and it is indeed wonderfully well done. My
     countrymen are certainly pretty sharp hands in such matters--but
     this beats everything I ever heard of. Surely this is a breach of
     the warranty? Or is it to be considered a patent defect, which
     would not be within the warranty?[17]--Please take pleader's
     opinion, and particularly as to whether the horse could be brought
     into court to be viewed by the court and jury, which would have a
     great effect. If your pleader thinks the action will lie, let him
     draw declaration, venue--Lancashire (for my client would have no
     chance with a Yorkshire jury,) if you think the venue is
     transitory, and that defendant would not be successful on a motion
     to change it. Qu.--Is the man who sold the horse to defendant a
     competent[18] witness for the plaintiff, to prove that, when he
     sold it to defendant, it had but one eye, and that on this account
     the horse was sold for less?

                        "Mule v. Stott.

     "I cannot get these parties to come to an amicable settlement. You
     may remember, from the two former actions, that it is for damages
     on account of two geese of defendant having been found trespassing
     on a few yards of a field belonging to the plaintiff. Defendant now
     contends that he is entitled to common, pour cause de vicinage.
     Qu.--Can this be shown under Not Guilty, or must it be pleaded
     specially?--About two years ago, by the way, a pig belonging to
     plaintiff got into defendant's flower-garden, and did at least £3
     worth of damage--Can this be in any way set off against the present
     action? There is no hope of avoiding a third trial, as the parties
     are now more exasperated against each other than ever, and the
     expense (as at least fifteen witnesses will be called on each side)
     will amount to upwards of £250. You had better retain Mr.
     Cacklegander.

                    "Re Lords Oldacre and De la Zouch.

     "Are the deeds herein engrossed? As it is a matter of magnitude,
     and the foundation of extensive and permanent family arrangements,
     pray let the greatest care be taken to secure accuracy. Please take
     special care of the stamps"----

Thus far had the worthy writer proceeded with his letter, when Waters made his appearance,
delivering to him the declaration in ejectment which had been served upon old Jolter, and also
the instructions concerning it which had been given by Mr. Aubrey. After Mr. Parkinson had
asked particularly concerning Mr. Aubrey's health, and what had brought him so suddenly to
Yatton, he cast his eye hastily over the "Declaration"--and at once and contemptuously came
to the same conclusion concerning it which had been arrived at by Waters and Mr. Aubrey, viz.
that it was another little arrow out of the quiver of the litigious Mr. Tomkins. As soon as
Waters had left, Mr. Parkinson thus proceeded to conclude his letter:--

                    "Doe dem. Titmouse v. Roe.

     "I enclose you Declaration herein, served yesterday. No doubt it is
     the disputed slip of waste land adjoining the cottage of old Jacob
     Jolter, a tenant of Mr. Aubrey of Yatton, that is sought to be
     recovered. I am quite sick of this petty annoyance, as also is Mr.
     Aubrey, who is now down here. Please call on Messrs. Quirk, Gammon,
     and Snap, of Saffron Hill, and settle the matter finally, on the
     best terms you can; it being Mr. Aubrey's wish that old Jolter (who
     is very feeble and timid) should suffer no inconvenience. I observe
     a new lessor of the plaintiff, with a very singular name. I suppose
     it is the name of some prior holder of the acre or two of property
     at present held by Mr. Tomkins.

     "Hoping soon to hear from you, (particularly about the
     marriage-settlement,) I am,

                               "Dear Sirs,
                "(With all the compliments of the season,)
                              "Yours truly,
                                                      "JAMES PARKINSON.
     "MESSRS. RUNNINGTON & CO.

     "P. S.--The oysters and codfish came to hand in excellent order,
     for which please accept my best thanks.

     "I shall remit you in a day or two £100 on account."

This letter, lying among some twenty or thirty similar ones on Mr. Runnington's table, on the
morning of its arrival in town, was opened in its turn; and then, in like manner, with most
of the others, handed over to the managing clerk, in order that he might inquire into and report
upon the state of the various matters of business referred to. As to the last item (Doe dem.
Titmouse v. Roe) in Mr. Parkinson's letter, there seemed no particular reason for hurrying;
so two or three days had elapsed before Mr. Runnington, having some little casual business
to transact with Messrs. Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, bethought himself of looking at his Diary,
to see if there were not something else that he had to do with that very sharp "house." Putting,
therefore, the Declaration in Doe d. Titmouse v. Roe into his pocket, it was not long before
he was to be seen at the office in Saffron Hill--and in the very room in it which had been
the scene of several memorable interviews between Mr. Tittlebat Titmouse and Messrs. Quirk,
Gammon, and Snap. I shall not detail what transpired on that occasion between Mr. Runnington,
and Messrs. Quirk and Gammon, with whom he was closeted for nearly an hour. On quitting the
office his cheek was flushed, and his manner somewhat excited. After walking a little way in
a moody manner and with slow step, he suddenly jumped into a hackney-coach, and within a quarter
of an hour's time had secured an inside place in the Tally-ho coach, which started for York
at two o'clock that afternoon--much doubting within himself, the while, whether he ought not
to have set off at once in a post-chaise and four. He then made one or two calls in the Temple;
and, hurrying home to the office, made hasty arrangements for his sudden journey into Yorkshire.
He was a calm and experienced man--in fact, a first-rate man of business; and you may be assured
that this rapid and decisive movement of his had been the result of some very startling disclosure
made to him by Messrs. Quirk and Gammon.

Now, let us glide back to the delightful solitude which we reluctantly quitted so short a time ago.

Mr. Aubrey was a studious and ambitious man; and in acceding so readily to the wishes of his
wife and sister, to spend the Christmas recess at Yatton, had been not a little influenced
by one consideration, which he had not thought it worth while to mention--namely, that it would
afford him an opportunity of addressing himself with effect to a very important and complicated
question, which was to be brought before the House shortly after its reassembling, and of which
he then knew, comparatively speaking, nothing at all. For this purpose he had had a quantity
of Parliamentary papers, &c. &c. &c., packed up and sent down by coach; and he quite gloated
over the prospect of their being duly deposited upon his table, in the tranquil leisure of
his library, at Yatton. But quietly as he supposed all this to have been managed, Mrs. Aubrey
and Kate had a most accurate knowledge of his movements, and resolved within themselves, (being
therein comforted and assisted by old Mrs. Aubrey,) that, as at their instances Mr. Aubrey
had come down to Yatton, so they would take care that he should have not merely nominal, but
real holidays. Unless he thought fit to rise at an early hour in the morning, (which Mrs. Aubrey,
junior, took upon herself to say she would take care should never be the case,) it was decreed
that he should not be allowed to waste more than two hours a-day alone in his library. 'T was
therefore in vain for him to sit at breakfast with eye aslant and thought-laden brow, as if
meditating a long day's seclusion; somehow or another, he never got above an hour to himself.
He was often momentarily petulant on these occasions, and soon saw through the designs of his
enemies; but he so heartily and tenderly loved them--so thoroughly appreciated the affection
which dictated their little manœuvres--that he soon surrendered at discretion, and, in fact,
placed himself almost entirely at their mercy; resolving to make up for lost time on his return
to town, and earnestly hoping that the interests of the nation would not suffer in the mean
while! In short, the ladies of Yatton had agreed on their line of operations: that almost every
night of their stay in the country should be devoted either to entertaining or visiting their
neighbors; and as a preparatory movement, that the days (weather permitting) should be occupied
with exercise in the open air; in making "morning" calls on neighbors at several miles' distance
from the Hall and from each other; and from which they generally returned only in time enough
to dress for dinner. As soon, indeed, as the York True Blue (the leading county paper) had
announced the arrival at Yatton of "Charles Aubrey, Esq., M. P., and his family, for the Christmas
recess," the efforts of Mrs. and Miss Aubrey were most powerfully seconded by a constant succession
of visitors--by

    "Troops of friends,"

as the lodge-keeper could have testified; for he and his buxom wife were continually opening
and shutting the great gates. On the Monday after Christmas-day, (i. e. the day but one following,)
came cantering up to the Hall Lord De la Zouch and Mr. Delamere, of course staying to luncheon
and bearing a most pressing invitation from Lady De la Zouch, zealously backed by themselves,
for the Aubreys to join a large party at Fotheringham Castle on New-Year's Eve. This was accepted--a
day and a night were thus gone at a swoop. The same thing happened with the Oldfields, their
nearest neighbors; with Sir Percival Pickering at Luddington Court, where was a superb new
picture-gallery to be critically inspected by Mr. Aubrey--the Earl of Oldacre, a college friend
of Mr. Aubrey's--the venerable Lady Stratton, the earliest friend and schoolfellow of old Mrs.
Aubrey, and so forth. Then Kate had several visits to pay on her own account; and being fond
of horseback, but not of riding about the country with only a groom in attendance, her brother
must accompany her on these occasions. The first week of their stay in the country was devoted
to visiting their neighbors and friends in the way I have stated; the next was to be spent
in receiving them at Yatton, during which time the old Hall was to ring with merry hospitality.

Then there was a little world of other matters to occupy Mr. Aubrey's attention, and which
naturally crowded upon him, living so little as he had latterly lived at Yatton. He often had
a kind of levee of his humbler neighbors, tenants, and constituents; and on these occasions
his real goodness of nature, his simplicity, his patience, his forbearance, his sweetness of
temper, his benevolence, shone conspicuous. With all these more endearing qualities, there
was yet a placid dignity about him which would have chilled undue familiarity, and repelled
presumption--had they ventured to manifest themselves. He had here no motive or occasion for
ostentation, or, as it is called, popularity-hunting. In a sense it might be said of him, that
he was "monarch of all he surveyed." It is true, he was member for the borough--an honor, however,
for which he was indebted to the natural influence of his commanding position--one which left
him his own master, not converting him into a paltry delegate, handcuffed by pledges on public
questions, and laden with injunctions concerning petty local interests only--liable, moreover,
to be called to an account at any moment by ignorant and insolent demagogues--but a member
of Parliament training to become a statesman, possessed of a free-will, and therefore capable
of independent and enlightened deliberations; placed by his fortune above the reach of temptation--but
I shall not go any farther, for the portraiture of a member of Parliament of those days suggests
such a humiliating and bitter contrast, that I shall not ruffle either my own or my reader's
temper by sketching one of modern days. On the occasions I have been alluding to, Mr. Aubrey
was not only condescending and generous, but practically acute and discriminating; qualities
of his, these latter, so well known, however, as to leave him at length scarce any opportunities
of exercising them. His quiet but decisive interference put an end to many local unpleasantnesses
and annoyances, and caused his increasing absence from Yatton to be very deeply regretted.
Was a lad or a wench taking to idle and dissolute courses? A kind, or, as the occasion required,
a stern expostulation of his--for he was a justice of the peace moreover--brought them to their
senses. He had a very happy knack of reasoning and laughing quarrelsome neighbors into reconciliation
and good-humor. He had a keen eye after the practical details of agriculture; was equally quick
at detecting an inconvenience, and appreciating--sometimes even suggesting--a remedy; and had,
on several occasions, brought such knowledge to bear very effectively upon discussions in Parliament.
His constituents, few in number undoubtedly, and humble, were quite satisfied with, and proud
of, their member; and his unexpected appearance diffused among them real and general satisfaction.
As a landlord, he was beloved by his numerous tenantry; and well he might--for never was there
so easy and liberal a landlord: he might at any time have increased his rental by £1,500 or
£2,000 a-year, as his steward frequently intimated to him--but in vain. "Ten thousand a-year,"
would say Mr. Aubrey, "is far more than my necessities require--it affords me and my family
every luxury that I can conceive of; and its magnitude reminds me constantly that hereafter
I shall be called upon to give a very strict and solemn account of my stewardship." I would
my space could admit of my completing, as it ought to be completed, this portraiture of a true
Christian gentleman!

As he rode up to the Hare and Hounds Inn, at Grilston, one morning, to transact some little
business, and also to look in on the Farmers' Club, which was then holding one of its fortnightly
meetings, (every one touching his hat and bowing to him on each side of the long street, as
he slowly passed up it,) he perceived that his horse limped on one foot. On dismounting, therefore,
he stopped to see what was the matter, while his groom took up the foot to examine it.

"Dey-vilish fine horse!" exclaimed the voice of one standing close beside him, and in a tone
of most disagreeable confidence. The exclamation was addressed to Mr. Aubrey; who, on turning
to the speaker, beheld a young man--('twas, in fact, Titmouse)--dressed in a style of the most
extravagant absurdity. One hand was stuck into the hinder pocket of a stylish top-coat, (the
everlasting tip of a white pocket-handkerchief glistening at the mouth of his breast-pocket;)
the other held a cigar to his mouth, from which, as he addressed Mr. Aubrey with an air of
signal assurance, he slowly expelled the smoke which he had inhaled. Mr. Aubrey turned towards
him with a cold and surprised air, without replying; at the same time wondering where he had
seen the ridiculous object before.

"The horses in these parts ar'n't to be compared with them at London--eh, sir?" quoth Titmouse,
approaching closer to Mr. Aubrey and his groom, to see what the latter was doing--who, on hearing
Titmouse's last sally, gave him a very significant look.

"I'm afraid the people here won't relish your remarks, sir!" replied Mr. Aubrey, calmly--hardly
able to forbear a smile; at the same time, with an astonished air, scanning the figure of his
companion from head to foot.

"Who cares?" inquired Titmouse, with a very energetic oath. At this moment up came a farmer,
who, observing Mr. Aubrey, made him a very low bow. Mr. Aubrey's attention being at the moment
occupied with Titmouse, he did not observe the salutation; not so with Titmouse, who, conceiving
it to have been directed to himself, acknowledged it by taking off his hat with great grace!
Mr. Aubrey presently entered the house, having ordered his groom to bring back the horse in
an hour's time.

"Pray," said he, mildly, to the landlady, "who is that person smoking the cigar outside?"

"Why, sir," she replied, "he's a Mr. Brown; and has another with him here--who's going up to
London by this afternoon's coach--this one stays behind a day or two longer. They're queer
people, sir. Such dandies! Do nothing but smoke, and drink brandy and water, sir; only that
t' other writes a good deal."

"Well, I wish you would remind him," said Mr. Aubrey, smiling, "that, if he thinks fit to speak
to me again, or in my presence, I am a magistrate, and have the power of fining him five shillings
for every oath he utters."

"What! sir," quoth she, reverently--"has he been speaking to you? Well, I never!! He's the
most forward little upstart I ever see'd!" said she, dropping her voice; "and the sooner he
takes himself off from here the better; for he's always winking at the maids and talking impudence
to them. I'se box his ears, I warrant him, one of these times!" Mr. Aubrey smiled, and went
up-stairs.

"There don't seem to be much wrong," quoth Titmouse to the groom, with a condescending air,
as soon as Mr. Aubrey had entered the house.

"Much you know about it, I don't guess!" quoth Sam, with a contemptuous smile.

"Who's your master, fellow?" inquired Titmouse, knocking off the ashes from the tip of his cigar.

"A gentleman. What's yours?"

"Curse your impudence, you vagabond"---- The words were hardly out of his mouth before Sam,
with a slight tap of his hand, had knocked Titmouse's glossy hat off his head, and Titmouse's
purple-hued hair stood exposed to view, provoking the jeers and laughter of one or two bystanders.
Titmouse appeared about to strike the groom; who, hastily giving the bridles of his horses
into the hands of an hostler, threw himself into boxing attitude; and being a clean, tight-built,
stout young fellow, looked a very formidable object, as he came squaring nearer and nearer
to the dismayed Titmouse; and on behalf of the outraged honor of all the horses of Yorkshire,
was just going to let fly his one-two, when a sharp tapping at the bow-window overhead startled
him for a moment, interrupting his war-like demonstrations; and, on casting up his eyes, he
beheld the threatening figure of his master, who was shaking his whip at him. He dropped his
guard, touched his hat very humbly, and resumed his horses' bridles; muttering, however, to
Titmouse, "If thou'rt a man, come down into t' yard, and I'll mak thee think a horse kicked
thee, a liar as thou art!"

"Who's that gentleman gone up-stairs?" inquired Titmouse of the landlady, after he had sneaked
into the inn.

"Squire Aubrey of Yatton," she replied tartly. Titmouse's face, previously very pale, flushed
all over. "Ay, ay," she continued sharply--"thou must be chattering to the grand folks, and
thou'st nearly put thy foot into 't at last, I can tell thee; for that's a magistrate, and
thou'st been a-swearing afore him." Titmouse smiled rather faintly; and entering the parlor,
affected to be engaged with a county newspaper; and he remained very quiet for upwards of an
hour, not venturing out of the room till he had seen off Mr. Aubrey and his formidable Sam.

It was the hunting season; but Mr. Aubrey, though he had as fine horses as were to be found
in the county, and which were always at the service of his friends, partly from want of inclination,
and partly from the delicacy of his constitution, never shared in the sports of the field.
Now and then, however, he rode to cover, to see the hounds throw off, and exchange greetings
with a great number of his friends and neighbors, on such occasions collected together. This
he did, the morning after that on which he had visited Grilston, accompanied, at their earnest
entreaty, by Mrs. Aubrey and Kate. I am not painting angels, but describing frail human nature;
and truth forces me to say, that Kate had a kind of a notion that on such occasions she did
not appear to disadvantage. I protest I love her not the less for it! Is there a beautiful
woman under the sun who is not really aware of her charms, and of the effect they produce upon
our sex? Pooh! I never will believe to the contrary. In Kate's composition this ingredient
was but an imperceptible alloy in virgin gold. Now, how was it that she came to think of this
hunting appointment? I do not exactly know; but I recollect that when Lord De la Zouch last
called at Yatton, he happened to mention it at lunch, and to say that he and one Geoffrey Lovel
Delamere---- but however that may be, behold, on a bright Thursday morning, Aubrey and his
two lovely companions made their welcome appearance at the field, superbly mounted, and most
cordially greeted by all present. Miss Aubrey attracted universal admiration; but there was
one handsome youngster, his well-formed figure showing to great advantage in his new pink and
leathers, who made a point of challenging her special notice, and in doing so, attracting that
of all his envious fellow-sportsmen; and that was Delamere. He seemed, indeed, infinitely more
taken up with the little party from Yatton than with the serious business of the day. His horse,
however, had an eye to business; and with erect ears, catching the first welcome signal sooner
than the gallant person who sat upon it, sprang off like lightning and would have left its
abstracted rider behind, had he not been a first-rate "seat." In fact, Kate herself was not
sufficiently on her guard; and her eager filly suddenly put in requisition all her rider's
little and skill to rein her in--which having done, Kate's eye looked rather anxiously after
her late companion, who, however, had already cleared the first hedge, and was fast making
up to the scattering scarlet crowd. Oh, the bright exhilarating scene!

"Heigh ho--Agnes!" said Kate, with a slight sigh, as soon as Delamere had disappeared--"I was
very nearly off."

"So was somebody else, Kate!" said Mrs. Aubrey, with a sly smile.

"This is a very cool contrivance of yours, Kate,--- bringing us here this morning," said her
brother, rather gravely.

"What do you mean, Charles?" she inquired, slightly reddening. He good-naturedly tapped her
shoulder with his whip, laughed, urged his horse into a canter, and they were all soon on their
way to General Grim's, an old friend of the late Mr. Aubrey's.

The party assembled on New-Year's Eve at Fotheringham Castle, the magnificent residence of
Lord De la Zouch, was numerous and brilliant. The Aubreys arrived about five o'clock; and on
emerging from their respective apartments into the drawing-room, soon after the welcome sound
of the dinner bell--Mr. Aubrey leading in his lovely wife, followed shortly afterwards by his
beautiful sister--they attracted general attention. He himself looked handsome, for the brisk
country air had brought out a glow upon his too frequently pallid countenance--pallid with
the unwholesome atmosphere, the late hours, the wasting excitement of the House of Commons;
and his smile was cheerful, his eye bright and penetrating. Nothing makes such quick triumphant
way in English society, as the promise of speedy political distinction. It will supply to its
happy possessor the want of family and fortune--it rapidly melts away all distinctions. The
obscure but eloquent commoner finds himself suddenly standing in the rarefied atmosphere of
privilege and exclusiveness--the familiar equal, often the conscious superior, of the haughtiest
peer of the realm. A single successful speech in the House of Commons, opens before its utterer
the shining doors of fashion and greatness as if by magic. It is as it were POWER stepping
into its palace, welcomed by gay crowds of eager, obsequious expectants. Who would not press
forward to grasp in anxious welcome the hand which, in a few short years, may dispense the
glittering baubles sighed after by the great, and the more substantial patronage of office--which
may point public opinion in any direction? But, to go no farther, what if to all this be added
a previous position in society, such as that occupied by Mr. Aubrey! There were several very
fine women, married and single, in that splendid drawing-room; but there were two girls, in
very different styles of beauty, who were soon allowed by all present to carry off the palm
between them--I mean Miss Aubrey and Lady Caroline Caversham, the only daughter of the Marchioness
of Redborough, both of whom were on a visit at the castle of some duration. Lady Caroline and
Miss Aubrey were of about the same age, and dressed almost exactly alike, viz. in white satin;
only Lady Caroline wore a brilliant diamond necklace, whereas Kate had chosen to wear not a
single ornament.

Lady Caroline was a trifle the taller, and had a very stately carriage. Her hair was black
as jet--her features were refined and delicate; but they wore a very cold, haughty expression.
After a glance at her half-closed eyes, and the swan-like curve of her snowy neck, you unconsciously
withdrew from her, as from an inaccessible beauty. The more you looked at her, the more she
satisfied your critical scrutiny; but your feelings went not out towards her--they were, in
a manner, chilled and repulsed. Look, now, at our own Kate Aubrey--nay, never fear to place
her beside yon supercilious divinity--look at her, and your heart acknowledges her loveliness;
your soul thrills at sight of her bewitching blue eyes--eyes now sparkling with excitement,
then languishing with softness, in accordance with the varying emotions of a sensitive nature--a
most susceptible heart. How her sunny curls harmonize with the delicacy and richness of her
complexion! Her figure, observe, is, of the two, a trifle fuller than her rival's--stay, don't
let your admiring eyes settle so intently upon her budding form, or you will confuse Kate--turn
away, or she will shrink from you like the sensitive plant! Lady Caroline seems the exquisite
but frigid production of a skilful statuary, who had caught a divinity in the very act of disdainfully
setting her foot for the first time upon this poor earth of ours; but Kate is a living and
breathing beauty--as it were, fresh from the hand of God himself!

Kate was very affectionately greeted by Lady De la Zouch, a lofty and dignified woman of about
fifty; so also by Lord De la Zouch; but when young Delamere welcomed her with a palpable embarrassment
of manner, a more brilliant color stole into her cheek, and a keen observer might have noticed
a little, rapid, undulating motion in her bosom, which told of some inward emotion. And a keen
observer Kate at that moment had in her beautiful rival; from whose cheek, as that of Kate
deepened in its roseate bloom, faded away the color entirely, leaving it the hue of the lily.
Her drooping eyelids could scarcely conceal the glances of alarm and anger which she darted
at her plainly successful rival in the affections of the future Lord De la Zouch. Kate was
quickly aware of this state of matters; and it required no little self-control to appear unaware
of it. Delamere took her down to dinner, and seated himself beside her, and paid her such pointed
attentions as at length really distressed her; and she was quite relieved when the time came
for the ladies to withdraw. That she had not a secret yearning towards Delamere, the frequent
companion of her early days, I cannot assert, because I know it would be contrary to the fact.
Circumstances had kept him on the Continent for more than a year between the period of his
quitting Eton and going to Oxford, where another twelve-month had slipped away without his
visiting Yorkshire: thus two years had elapsed--and behold Kate had become a woman and he a
man! They had mutual predispositions towards each other, and 'twas mere accident which of them
first manifested symptoms of fondness for the other--the same result must have followed, namely,
(to use a great word,) reciprocation. Lord and Lady De la Zouch idolized their son, and were
old and very firm friends of the Aubrey family; and, if Delamere really formed an attachment
to one of Miss Aubrey's beauty, accomplishments, talent, amiability, and ancient family--why
should he not be gratified? Kate, whether she would or not, was set down to the piano, Lady
Caroline accompanying her on the harp--on which she usually performed with mingled skill and
grace; but on the present occasion, both the fair performers found fault with their instruments--then
with themselves--and presently gave up the attempt in despair. But when, at a later period
of the evening, Kate's spirits had been a little exhilarated with dancing, and she sat down,
at Lord De la Zouch's request, and gave that exquisite song from the Tempest--"Where the bee
sucks"--all the witchery of her voice and manner had returned; and as for Delamere, he would
have given the world to marry her that minute, and so forever extinguish the hopes of--as he
imagined--two or three nascent competitors for the beautiful prize then present.

That Kate was good as beautiful, the following little incident, which happened to her on the
ensuing evening, will show. There was a girl in the village at Yatton, about sixteen or seventeen
years old, called Phœbe Williams; a very pretty girl, and who had spent about two years at
the Hall as a laundry-maid, but had been obliged, some few months before the time I am speaking
of, to return to her parents in the village, ill of a decline. She had been a sweet-tempered
girl in her situation, and all her fellow-servants felt great interest in her, as also did
Miss Aubrey. Mrs. Aubrey sent her daily jellies, sago, and other such matters, suitable for
the poor girl's condition; and about a quarter of an hour after her return from Fotheringham,
Miss Aubrey, finding one of the female servants about to set off with some of the above-mentioned
articles, and hearing that poor Phœbe was getting rapidly worse, instead of retiring to her
room to undress, slipped on an additional shawl, and resolved to accompany the servant to the
village. She said not a word to either her mother, her sister-in-law, or her brother; but simply
left word with her maid whither she was going, and that she should quickly return. It was snowing
smartly when Kate set off; but she cared not, hurried on by the impulse of kindness, which
led her to pay perhaps a last visit to the humble sufferer. She walked alongside of the elderly
female servant, asking her a number of questions about Phœbe, and her sorrowing father and
mother. It was nearly dark as they quitted the Park gates, and snowing, if anything, faster
than when they had left the Hall. Kate, wrapping her shawl still closer round her slender figure,
her face being pretty well protected by her veil, hurried on, and they soon reached Williams'
cottage. Its humble tenants were, as may be imagined, not a little surprised at her appearance
at such an hour and in such inclement weather, and so apparently unattended. Poor Phœbe, worn
to a shadow, was sitting opposite the fire, in a little wooden armchair, and propped up by
a pillow. She trembled, and her lips moved on seeing Miss Aubrey, who, sitting down on a stool
beside her, after laying aside her snow-whitened shawl and bonnet, spoke to her in the most
gentle and soothing strain imaginable. What a contrast in their two figures! 'T would have
been no violent stretch of imagination to say, that Catherine Aubrey at that moment looked
like a ministering angel sent to comfort the wretched sufferer in her extremity. Phœbe's father
and mother stood on each side of the little fireplace, gazing with tearful eyes upon their
only child, soon about to depart from them forever. The poor girl was indeed a touching object.
She had been very pretty, but now her face was white and wofully emaciated--the dread impress
of consumption was upon it. Her wasted fingers were clasped together on her lap, holding between
them a little handkerchief, with which, evidently with great effort, she occasionally wiped
the dampness from her face.

"You're very good, ma'am," she whispered, "to come to see me, and so late. They say it's a
sad cold night."

"I heard, Phœbe, that you were not so well, and I thought I would just step along with Margaret,
who has brought you some more jelly. Did you like the last!"

"Y-e-s, ma'am," she replied hesitatingly; "but it's very hard for me to swallow anything now,
my throat feels so sore." Here her mother shook her head and looked aside; for the doctor had
only that morning explained to her the nature of the distressing symptom to which her daughter
was alluding--as evidencing the very last stage of her fatal disorder.

"I'm very sorry to hear you say so, Phœbe," replied Miss Aubrey. "Do you think there's anything
else that Mrs. Jackson could make for you?"

"No, ma'am, thank you; I feel it's no use trying to swallow anything more," said poor Phœbe,
faintly.

"While there's life," whispered Miss Aubrey, in a subdued, hesitating tone, "there's hope--they
say." Phœbe shook her head mournfully.

"Don't stop long, dear lady--it's getting very late for you to be out alone. Father will go"----

"Never mind me, Phœbe--I can take care of myself. I hope you mind what good Dr. Tatham says
to you? You know this sickness is from God, Phœbe. He knows what is best for his creatures."

"Thank God, ma'am, I think I feel resigned. I know it is God's will; but I'm very sorry for
poor father and mother--they'll be so lone like when they don't see Phœbe about." Her father
gazed intently at her, and the tears ran trickling down his cheeks; her mother put her apron
before her face, and shook her head in silent anguish. Miss Aubrey did not speak for a few
moments. "I see you have been reading the prayer-book mamma gave you when you were at the Hall,"
said she at length, observing the little volume lying open on Phœbe's lap.

"Yes, ma'am--I was trying; but somehow lately, I can't read, for there's a kind of mist comes
over my eyes, and I can't see."

"That's weakness, Phœbe," said Miss Aubrey, quickly but tremulously.

