They decorated the façade of S. Pietro in Vincula, painting therein stories of S. Peter, with
some large figures of Prophets. And so widespread was the fame of these masters by reason of
the abundance of their work, that the pictures painted by them with such beauty in public places
enabled them to win extraordinary praise in their lifetime, with glory infinite and eternal
through the number of their imitators after death. On a façade, also, in the square where stands
the Palace of the Medici, behind the Piazza Navona, they painted the Triumphs of Paulus Emilius,
with a vast number of other Roman stories. And at S. Silvestro di Montecavallo they executed
some little things for Fra Mariano, both in the house and in the garden; and in the church
they painted his chapel, with two scenes in colour from the life of S. Mary Magdalene, in which
the disposition of the landscapes is executed with supreme grace and judgment. For Polidoro,
in truth, executed landscapes and groups of trees and rocks better than any other painter,
and it is to him that art owes that facility which our modern craftsmen show in their works.

They also painted many apartments and friezes in various houses at Rome, executing them with
colours in fresco and in distemper; but these works were attempted by them as trials, because
they were never able to achieve with colours that beauty which they always displayed in their
works in chiaroscuro, in their imitations of bronze, or in terretta. This may still be seen
in the house of Torre Sanguigna, which once belonged to the Cardinal of Volterra, on the façade
of which they painted a most beautiful decoration in chiaroscuro, and in the interior some
figures in colour, the painting of which is so badly executed, that in it they diverted from
its true excellence the good design which they always had. And this appeared all the more strange
because of there being beside them an escutcheon of Pope Leo, with nude figures, by the hand
of Giovan Francesco Vetraio, who would have done extraordinary things if death had not taken
him from our midst. However, not cured by this of their insane confidence, they also painted
some children in colour for the altar of the Martelli in S. Agostino at Rome, a work which
Jacopo Sansovino completed by making a Madonna of marble; and these children appear to be by
the hands, not of illustrious masters, but of simpletons just beginning to learn. Whereas,
on the side where the altar-cloth covers the altar, Polidoro painted a little scene of a Dead
Christ with the Maries, which is a most beautiful work, showing that in truth that sort of
work was more their profession than the use of colours.

Returning, therefore, to their usual work, they painted two very beautiful façades in the Campo
Marzio; one with the stories of Ancus Martius, and the other with the Festivals of the Saturnalia,
formerly celebrated in that place, with all the two-horse and four-horse chariots circling
round the obelisks, which are held to be most beautiful, because they are so well executed
both in design and in nobility of manner, that they reproduce most vividly those very spectacles
as representations of which they were painted. On the Canto della Chiavica, on the way to the
Corte Savella, they painted a façade which is a divine thing, and is held to be the most beautiful
of all the beautiful works that they executed; for, in addition to the story of the maidens
passing over the Tiber, there is at the foot, near the door, a Sacrifice painted with marvellous
industry and art, wherein may be seen duly represented all the instruments and all those ancient
customs that used to have a place in sacrifices of that kind. Near the Piazza del Popolo, below
S. Jacopo degli Incurabili, they painted a façade with stories of Alexander the Great, which
is held to be very fine; and there they depicted the ancient statues of the Nile and the Tiber
from the Belvedere. Near S. Simeone they painted the façade of the Gaddi Palace, which is truly
a cause of marvel and amazement, when one observes the lovely vestments in it, so many and
so various, and the vast number of ancient helmets, girdles, buskins, and barques, adorned
with all the delicacy and abundance of detail that an inventive imagination could conceive.
There, with a multitude of beautiful things which overload the memory, are represented all
the ways of the ancients, the statues of sages, and most lovely women: and there are all the
sorts of ancient sacrifices with their ritual, and an army in the various stages between embarking
and fighting with an extraordinary variety of arms and implements, all executed with such grace
and finished with such masterly skill, that the eye is dazzled by the vast abundance of beautiful
inventions. Opposite to this is a smaller façade, which could not be improved in beauty and
variety; and there, in the frieze, is the story of Niobe causing herself to be worshipped,
with the people bringing tribute, vases, and various kinds of gifts; which story was depicted
by them with such novelty, grace, art, force of relief and genius in every part, that it would
certainly take too long to describe the whole. Next, there follows the wrath of Latona, and
her terrible vengeance on the children of the over-proud Niobe, whose seven sons are slain
by Phoebus and the seven daughters by Diana; with an endless number of figures in imitation
of bronze, which appear to be not painted but truly of metal. Above these are executed other
scenes, with some vases in imitation of gold, innumerable things of fancy so strange that mortal
eye could not picture anything more novel or more beautiful, and certain Etruscan helmets;
but one is left confused by the variety and abundance of the conceptions, so beautiful and
so fanciful, which issued from their minds. These works have been imitated by a vast number
of those who labour at that branch of art. They also painted the courtyard of that house, and
likewise the loggia, which they decorated with little grotesques in colour that are held to
be divine. In short, all that they touched they brought to perfection with infinite grace and
beauty; and if I were to name all their works, I should fill a whole book with the performances
of these two masters alone, since there is no apartment, palace, garden, or villa in Rome that
does not contain some work by Polidoro and Maturino.

Now, while Rome was rejoicing and clothing herself in beauty with their labours, and they were
awaiting the reward of all their toil, the envy of Fortune, in the year 1527, sent Bourbon
to Rome; and he gave that city over to sack. Whereupon was divided the companionship not only
of Polidoro and Maturino, but of all the thousands of friends and relatives who had broken
bread together for so many years in Rome. Maturino took to flight, and no long time passed
before he died, so it is believed in Rome, of plague, in consequence of the hardships that
he had suffered in the sack, and was buried in S. Eustachio. Polidoro turned his steps to Naples;
but on his arrival, the noblemen of that city taking but little interest in fine works of painting,
he was like to die of hunger. Working, therefore, at the commission of certain painters, he
executed a S. Peter in the principal chapel of S. Maria della Grazia; and in this way he assisted
those painters in many things, more to save his life than for any other reason. However, the
fame of his talents having spread abroad, he executed for Count ... a vault painted in distemper,
together with some walls, all of which is held to be very beautiful work. In like manner, he
executed a courtyard in chiaroscuro for Signor ..., with some loggie, which are very beautiful,
rich in ornaments, and well painted. He also painted for S. Angelo, beside the Pescheria at
Naples, a little panel in oils, containing a Madonna and some naked figures of souls in torment,
which is held to be most beautiful, but more for the drawing than for the colouring; and likewise
some pictures for the Chapel of the High-Altar, each with a single full-length figure, and
all executed in the same manner.

It came to pass that Polidoro, living in Naples and seeing his talents held in little esteem,
determined to take his leave of men who thought more of a horse that could jump than of a master
whose hands could give to painted figures the appearance of life. Going on board ship, therefore,
he made his way to Messina, where, finding more consideration and more honour, he set himself
to work; and thus, working continually, he acquired good skill and mastery in the use of colour.
Thereupon he executed many works, which are dispersed in various places; and turning his attention
to architecture, he gave proof of his worth in many buildings that he erected. After a time,
Charles V passing through Messina on his return from victory in Tunis, Polidoro made in his
honour most beautiful triumphal arches, from which he gained vast credit and rewards. And then
this master, who was always burning with desire to revisit Rome, which afflicts with an unceasing
yearning those who have lived there many years, when making trial of other countries, painted
as his last work in Messina a panel-picture of Christ bearing the Cross, executed in oils with
much excellence and very pleasing colour. In it he made a number of figures accompanying Christ
to His Death--soldiers, pharisees, horses, women, children, and the Thieves in front; and he
kept firmly before his mind the consideration of how such an execution must have been marshalled,
insomuch that his nature seemed to have striven to show its highest powers in this work, which
is indeed most excellent. After this he sought many times to shake himself free of that country,
although he was looked upon with favour there; but he had a reason for delay in a woman, beloved
by him for many years, who detained him with her sweet words and cajoleries. However, so mightily
did his desire to revisit Rome and his friends work in him, that he took from his bank a good
sum of money that he possessed, and, wholly determined, prepared to depart.

Polidoro had employed as his assistant for a long time a lad of the country, who bore greater
love to his master's money than to his master; but, the money being kept, as has been said,
in the bank, he was never able to lay his hands upon it and carry it off. Wherefore, an evil
and cruel thought entering his head, he resolved to put his master to death with the help of
some accomplices, on the following night, while he was sleeping, and then to divide the money
with them. And so, assisted by his friends, he set upon Polidoro in his first sleep, while
he was slumbering deeply, and strangled him with a cloth. Then, giving him several wounds,
they made sure of his death; and in order to prove that it was not they who had done it, they
carried him to the door of the woman whom he had loved, making it appear that her relatives
or other persons of the house had killed him. The assistant gave a good part of the money to
the villains who had committed so hideous an outrage, and bade them be off. In the morning
he went in tears to the house of a certain Count, a friend of his dead master, and related
the event to him; but for all the diligence that was used for many days in seeking for the
perpetrator of the crime, nothing came to light. By the will of God, however, nature and virtue,
in disdain at being wounded by the hand of fortune, so worked in one who had no interest in
the matter, that he declared it to be impossible that any other but the assistant himself could
have committed the murder. Whereupon the Count had him seized and put to the torture, and without
the application of any further torment he confessed the crime and was condemned by the law
to the gallows; but first he was torn with red-hot pincers on the way to execution, and finally
quartered.

For all this, however, life was not restored to Polidoro, nor was there given back to the art
of painting a genius so resolute and so extraordinary, such as had not been seen in the world
for many an age. If, indeed, at the time when he died, invention, grace, and boldness in the
painting of figures could have laid down their lives, they would have died with him. Happy
was the union of nature and art which embodied a spirit so noble in human form; and cruel was
the envy and hatred of his fate and fortune, which robbed him of life with so strange a death,
but shall never through all the ages rob him of his name. His obsequies were performed with
full solemnity, and he was given burial in the Cathedral Church, lamented bitterly by all Messina,
in the year 1543.

Great, indeed, is the obligation owed by craftsmen to Polidoro, in that he enriched art with
a great abundance of vestments, all different and most strange, and of varied ornaments, and
gave grace and adornment to all his works, and likewise made figures of every sort, animals,
buildings, grotesques, and landscapes, all so beautiful, that since his day whosoever has aimed
at catholicity has imitated him. It is a marvellous thing and a fearsome to see from the example
of this master the instability of Fortune and what she can bring to pass, causing men to become
excellent in some profession from whom something quite different might have been expected,
to the no small vexation of those who have laboured in vain for many years at the same art.
It is a marvellous thing, I repeat, to see those same men, after much travailing and striving,
brought by that same Fortune to a miserable and most unhappy end at the very moment when they
were hoping to enjoy the fruits of their labours; and that with calamities so monstrous and
terrible, that pity herself takes to flight, art is outraged, and benefits are repaid with
an extraordinary and incredible ingratitude. Wherefore, even as painting may rejoice in the
fruitful life of Polidoro, so could he complain of Fortune, which at one time showed herself
friendly to him, only to bring him afterwards, when it was least expected, to a dreadful death.

IL ROSSO

LIFE OF IL ROSSO

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

Men of account who apply themselves to the arts and pursue them with all their powers are sometimes
exalted and honoured beyond measure, at a moment when it was least expected, before the eyes
of all the world, as may be seen clearly from the labours that Il Rosso, a painter of Florence,
devoted to the art of painting; for if these were not acknowledged in Rome and Florence by
those who could reward them, yet in France he found one to recompense him for them, and that
in such sort, that his glory might have sufficed to quench the thirst of the most overweening
ambition that could possess the heart of any craftsman, be he who he may. Nor could he have
obtained in this life greater dignities, honour, or rank, seeing that he was regarded with
favour and much esteemed beyond any other man of his profession by a King so great as is the
King of France. And, indeed, his merits were such, that, if Fortune had secured less for him,
she would have done him a very great wrong, for the reason that Rosso, in addition to his painting,
was endowed with a most beautiful presence; his manner of speech was gracious and grave; he
was an excellent musician, and had a fine knowledge of philosophy; and what was of greater
import than all his other splendid qualities was this, that he always showed the invention
of a poet in the grouping of his figures, besides being bold and well-grounded in draughtsmanship,
graceful in manner, sublime in the highest flights of imagination, and a master of beautiful
composition of scenes. In architecture he showed an extraordinary excellence; and he was always,
however poor in circumstances, rich in the grandeur of his spirit. For this reason, whosoever
shall follow in the labours of painting the walk pursued by Rosso, must be celebrated without
ceasing, as are that master's works, which have no equals in boldness and are executed without
effort and strain, since he kept them free of that dry and painful elaboration to which so
many subject themselves in order to veil the worthlessness of their works with the cloak of
importance.

In his youth, Rosso drew from the cartoon of Michelagnolo, and would study art with but few
masters, having a certain opinion of his own that conflicted with their manners; as may be
seen from a shrine executed in fresco for Piero Bartoli at Marignolle, without the Porta a
S. Piero Gattolini in Florence, containing a Dead Christ, wherein he began to show how great
was his desire for a manner bold and grand, graceful and marvellous beyond that of all others.
While still a beardless boy, at the time when Lorenzo Pucci was made a Cardinal by Pope Leo,
he executed over the door of S. Sebastiano de' Servi the arms of the Pucci, with two figures,
which made the craftsmen of that day marvel, for no one expected for him such a result as he
achieved. Wherefore he so grew in courage, that, after having painted a picture with a half-length
figure of Our Lady and a head of S. John the Evangelist for Maestro Jacopo, a Servite friar,
who was something of a poet, at his persuasion he painted the Assumption of the Madonna in
the cloister of the Servites, beside the scene of the Visitation, which was executed by Jacopo
da Pontormo. In this he made a Heaven full of angels, all in the form of little naked children
dancing in a circle round the Madonna, foreshortened with a most beautiful flow of outlines
and with great grace of manner, as they wheel through the sky: insomuch that, if the colouring
had been executed by him with that mature mastery of art which he afterwards came to achieve,
he would have surpassed the other scenes by a great measure, even as he actually did equal
them in grandeur and excellence of design. He made the Apostles much burdened with draperies,
and, indeed, overloaded with their abundance; but the attitudes and some of the heads are more
than beautiful.

The Director of the Hospital of S. Maria Nuova commissioned him to paint a panel: but when
he saw it sketched, having little knowledge of that art, the Saints appeared to him like devils;
for it was Rosso's custom in his oil-sketches to give a sort of savage and desperate air to
the faces, after which, in finishing them, he would sweeten the expressions and bring them
to a proper form. At this the patron fled from his house and would not have the picture, saying
that the painter had cheated him.

In like manner, over another door that leads into the cloister of the Convent of the Servites,
Rosso painted the escutcheon of Pope Leo, with two children; but it is now ruined. And in the
houses of citizens may be seen several of his pictures and many portraits. For the visit of
Pope Leo to Florence he executed a very beautiful arch on the Canto de' Bischeri. Afterwards
he painted a most beautiful picture of the Dead Christ for Signor di Piombino, and also decorated
a little chapel for him. At Volterra, likewise, he painted a most lovely Deposition from the Cross.

Having therefore grown in credit and fame, he executed for S. Spirito, in Florence, the panel-picture
of the Dei family, which they had formerly entrusted to Raffaello da Urbino, who abandoned
it because of the cares of the work that he had undertaken in Rome. This picture Rosso painted
with marvellous grace, draughtsmanship, and vivacity of colouring. Let no one imagine that
any work can display greater force or show more beautifully from a distance than this one,
which, on account of the boldness of the figures and the extravagance of the attitudes, no
longer employed by any of the other painters, was held to be an extraordinary work. And although
it did not bring him much credit at that time, the world has since come little by little to
recognize its excellence and has given it abundant praise; for with regard to the blending
of colour it would be impossible to excel it, seeing that the lights which are in the brightest
parts unite with the lower lights little by little as they merge into the darks, with such
sweetness and harmony, and with such masterly skill in the projection of the shadows, that
the figures stand out from one another and bring each other into relief by means of the lights
and shades. Such vigour, indeed, has this work, that it may be said to have been conceived
and executed with more judgment and mastery than any that has ever been painted by any other
master, however superior his judgment.

For S. Lorenzo, at the commission of Carlo Ginori, he painted a panel-picture of the Marriage
of Our Lady, which is held to be a most beautiful work. And, in truth, with regard to his facility
of method, there has never been anyone who has been able to surpass him in masterly skill and
dexterity, or even to approach within any distance of him; and he was so sweet in colouring,
and varied his draperies with such grace, and took such delight in his art, that he was always
held to be marvellous and worthy of the highest praise. Whosoever shall observe this work must
recognize that all that I have written is most true, above all as he studies the nudes, which
are very well conceived, with all the requirements of anatomy. His women are full of grace,
and the draperies that adorn them fanciful and bizarre. He showed, also, the sense of fitness
that is necessary in the heads of the old, with their harshness of features, and in those of
women and children, with expressions sweet and pleasing. He was so rich in invention, that
he never had any space left over in his pictures, and he executed all his work with such facility
and grace, that it was a marvel.

For Giovanni Bandini, also, he painted a picture with some very beautiful nudes, representing
the scene of Moses slaying the Egyptian, wherein were things worthy of the highest praise;
and this was sent, I believe, into France. And for Giovanni Cavalcanti, likewise, he executed
another, which went to England, of Jacob receiving water from the women at the well; this was
held to be a divine work, seeing that it contained nudes and women wrought with supreme grace.
For women, indeed, he always delighted to paint transparent pieces of drapery, head-dresses
with intertwined tresses, and ornaments for their persons.

While Rosso was engaged on this work, he was living in the Borgo de' Tintori, the rooms of
which look out on the gardens of the Friars of S. Croce; and he took much pleasure in a great
ape, which had the intelligence rather of a man than of a beast. For this reason he held it
very dear, and loved it like his own self; and since it had a marvellous understanding, he
made use of it for many kinds of service. It happened that this beast took a fancy to one of
his assistants, by name Battistino, who was a young man of great beauty; and from the signs
that his Battistino made to him he understood all that he wished to say. Now against the wall
of the rooms at the back, which looked out upon the garden of the friars, was a pergola belonging
to the Guardian, loaded with great Sancolombane grapes; and the young men used to let the ape
down with a rope to the pergola, which was some distance from their window, and pull the beast
up again with his hands full of grapes. The Guardian, finding his pergola stripped, but not
knowing the culprit, suspected that it must be mice, and lay in hiding; and seeing Rosso's
ape descending, he flew into a rage, seized a long pole, and rushed at him with hands uplifted
in order to beat him. The ape, seeing that whether he went up or stayed where he was, the Guardian
could reach him, began to spring about and destroy the pergola, and then, making as though
to throw himself on the friar's back, seized with both his hands the outermost crossbeams which
enclosed the pergola. Meanwhile the friar made play with his pole, and the ape, in his terror,
shook the pergola to such purpose, and with such force, that he tore the stakes and rods out
of their places, so that both pergola and ape fell headlong on the back of the friar, who shrieked
for mercy. The rope was pulled up by Battistino and the others, who brought the ape back into
the room safe and sound. Thereupon the Guardian, drawing off and planting himself on a terrace
that he had there, said things not to be found in the Mass; and full of anger and resentment
he went to the Council of Eight, a tribunal much feared in Florence. There he laid his complaint;
and, Rosso having been summoned, the ape was condemned in jest to carry a weight fastened to
his tail, to prevent him from jumping on pergole, as he did before. And so Rosso made a wooden
cylinder swinging on a chain, and kept it on the ape, in such a way that he could go about
the house but no longer jump about over other people's property. The ape, seeing himself condemned
to such a punishment, seemed to guess that the friar was responsible. Every day, therefore,
he exercised himself in hopping step by step with his legs, holding the weight with his hands;
and thus, resting often, he succeeded in his design. For, being one day loose about the house,
he hopped step by step from roof to roof, during the hour when the Guardian was away chanting
Vespers, and came to the roof over his chamber. There, letting go the weight, he kept up for
half an hour such a lovely dance, that not a single tile of any kind remained unbroken. Then
he went back home; and within three days, when rain came, were heard the Guardian's lamentations.

Rosso, having finished his works, took the road to Rome with Battistino and the ape; in which
city his works were sought for with extraordinary eagerness, great expectations having been
awakened about them by the sight of some drawings executed by him, which were held to be marvellous,
for Rosso drew divinely well and with the highest finish. There, in the Pace, over the pictures
of Raffaello, he executed a work which is the worst that he ever painted in all his days. Nor
can I imagine how this came to pass, save from a reason which has been seen not only in his
case, but also in that of many others, and which appears to be an extraordinary thing, and
one of the secrets of nature; and it is this, that he who changes his country or place of habitation
seems to change his nature, talents, character, and personal habits, insomuch that sometimes
he seems to be not the same man but another, and all dazed and stupefied. This may have happened
to Rosso in the air of Rome, and on account of the stupendous works of architecture and sculpture
that he saw there, and the paintings and statues of Michelagnolo, which may have thrown him
off his balance; which works also drove Fra Bartolommeo di San Marco and Andrea del Sarto to
flight, and prevented them from executing anything in Rome. Certain it is, be the cause what
it may, that Rosso never did worse; and, what is more, this work has to bear comparison with
those of Raffaello da Urbino.

At this time he painted for Bishop Tornabuoni, who was his friend, a picture of a Dead Christ
supported by two angels, which was a most beautiful piece of work, and is now in the possession
of the heirs of Monsignor della Casa. For Baviera he made drawings of all the Gods, for copper-plates,
which were afterwards engraved by Jacopo Caraglio; one of them being Saturn changing himself
into a horse, and the most noteworthy that of Pluto carrying off Proserpine. He executed a
sketch for the Beheading of S. John the Baptist, which is now in a little church on the Piazza
de' Salviati in Rome.

Meanwhile the sack of the city took place, and poor Rosso was taken prisoner by the Germans
and used very ill, for, besides stripping him of his clothes, they made him carry weights on
his back barefooted and with nothing on his head, and remove almost the whole stock from a
cheesemonger's shop. Thus ill-treated by them, he escaped with difficulty to Perugia, where
he was warmly welcomed and reclothed by the painter Domenico di Paris, for whom he drew the
cartoon for a panel-picture of the Magi, a very beautiful work, which is to be seen in the
house of Domenico. But he did not stay long in that place, for, hearing that Bishop Tornabuoni,
who was very much his friend, and had also fled from the sack, had gone to Borgo a San Sepolcro,
he made his way thither.

There was living at that time in Borgo a San Sepolcro a pupil of Giulio Romano, the painter
Raffaello dal Colle; and this master, having undertaken for a small price to paint a panel
for S. Croce, the seat of a Company of Flagellants, in his native city, lovingly resigned the
commission and gave it to Rosso, to the end that he might leave some example of his handiwork
in that place. At this the Company showed resentment, but the Bishop gave him every facility;
and when the picture, which brought him credit, was finished, it was set up in S. Croce. The
Deposition from the Cross that it contains is something very rare and beautiful, because he
rendered in the colours a certain effect of darkness to signify the eclipse that took place
at Christ's death, and because it was executed with very great diligence.

Afterwards, at Città di Castello, he received the commission for a panel-picture, on which
he was about to set to work, when, as it was being primed with gesso, a roof fell upon it and
broke it to pieces; while upon him there came a fever so violent, that he was like to die of
it, on which account he had himself carried from Castello to Borgo a San Sepolcro. This malady
being followed by a quartan fever, he then went on to the Pieve a San Stefano for a change
of air, and finally to Arezzo, where he was entertained in the house of Benedetto Spadari,
who so went to work with the help of Giovanni Antonio Lappoli of Arezzo and the many friends
and relatives that they had, that Rosso was commissioned to paint in fresco a vault previously
allotted to the painter Niccolò Soggi, in the Madonna delle Lagrime. And so eager were they
that he should leave such a memorial of himself in that city, that he was given a payment of
three hundred crowns of gold. Whereupon Rosso began his cartoons in a room that they had allotted
to him in a place called Murello; and there he finished four of them. In one he depicted our
First Parents, bound to the Tree of the Fall, with Our Lady drawing from their mouths the Sin
in the form of the Apple, and beneath her feet the Serpent; and in the air--wishing to signify
that she was clothed with the sun and moon--he made nude figures of Phoebus and Diana. In the
second is Moses bearing the Ark of the Covenant, represented by Our Lady surrounded by five
Virtues. In another is the Throne of Solomon, also represented by the Madonna, to whom votive
offerings are being brought, to signify those who have recourse to her for benefits: together
with other bizarre fancies, which were conceived by the fruitful brain of M. Giovanni Pollastra,
the friend of Rosso and a Canon of Arezzo, in compliment to whom Rosso made a most beautiful
model of the whole work, which is now in my house at Arezzo. He also drew for that work a study
of nude figures, which is a very choice thing; and it is a pity that it was never finished,
for, if he had put it into execution and painted it in oils, instead of having to do it in
fresco, it would indeed have been a miracle. But he was ever averse to working in fresco, and
therefore went on delaying the execution of the cartoons, meaning to have the work carried
out by Raffaello dal Borgo and others, so that in the end it was never done.

At that same time, being a courteous person, he made many designs for pictures and buildings
in Arezzo and its neighbourhood; among others, one for the Rectors of the Fraternity, of the
chapel which is at the foot of the Piazza, wherein there is now the Volto Santo. For the same
patrons he drew the design for a panel-picture to be painted by his hand, containing a Madonna
with a multitude under her cloak, which was to be set up in the same place; and this design,
which was not put into execution, is in our book, together with many other most beautiful drawings
by the hand of the same master.

But to return to the work that he was to execute in the Madonna delle Lagrime: there came forward
as his security for this work Giovanni Antonio Lappoli of Arezzo, his most faithful friend,
who gave him proofs of loving kindness with every sort of service. But in the year 1530, when
Florence was being besieged, the Aretines, having been restored to liberty by the small judgment
of Papo Altoviti, attacked the citadel and razed it to the ground. And because that people
looked with little favour on Florentines, Rosso would not trust himself to them, and went off
to Borgo a San Sepolcro, leaving the cartoons and designs for his work hidden away in the citadel.

Now those who had given him the commission for the panel at Castello, wished him to finish
it; but he, on account of the illness that he had suffered at Castello, would not return to
that city. He finished their panel, therefore, at Borgo a San Sepolcro; nor would he ever give
them the pleasure of a glance at it. In it he depicted a multitude, with Christ in the sky
being adored by four figures, and he painted Moors, Gypsies, and the strangest things in the
world; but, with the exception of the figures, which are perfect in their excellence, the composition
is concerned with anything rather than the wishes of those who ordered the picture of him.
At the same time that he was engaged on that work, he disinterred dead bodies in the Vescovado,
where he was living, and made a most beautiful anatomical model. Rosso was, in truth, an ardent
student of all things relating to art, and few days passed without his drawing some nude from life.

He had always had the idea of finishing his life in France, and of thus delivering himself
from that misery and poverty which are the lot of men who work in Tuscany, or in the country
where they were born; and he resolved to depart. And with a view to appearing more competent
in all matters, and to being ignorant of none, he had just learned the Latin tongue; when there
came upon him a reason for further hastening his departure. For one Holy Thursday, on which
day matins are chanted in the evening, one of his disciples, a young Aretine, being in church,
made a blaze of sparks and flames with a lighted candle-end and some resin, at the moment when
the "darkness," as they call it, was in progress; and the boy was reproved by some priests,
and even struck. Seeing this, Rosso, who had the boy seated at his side, sprang up full of
anger against the priests. Thereupon an uproar began, without anyone knowing what it was all
about, and swords were drawn against poor Rosso, who was busy with the priests. Taking to flight,
therefore, he contrived to regain his own rooms without having been struck or overtaken by
anyone. But he held himself to have been affronted; and having finished the panel for Castello,
without troubling about his work at Arezzo or the wrong that he was doing to Giovanni Antonio,
his security (for he had received more than a hundred and fifty crowns), he set off by night.
Taking the road by Pesaro, he made his way to Venice, where, being entertained by Messer Pietro
Aretino, he made for him a drawing, which was afterwards engraved, of Mars sleeping with Venus,
with the Loves and Graces despoiling him and carrying off his cuirass. Departing from Venice,
he found his way into France, where he was received by the Florentine colony with much affection.
There he painted some pictures, which were afterwards placed in the Gallery at Fontainebleau;
and these he then presented to King Francis, who took infinite pleasure in them, but much more
in the presence, speech, and manner of Rosso, who was imposing in person, with red hair in
accordance with his name, and serious, deliberate, and most judicious in his every action.
The King, then, after straightway granting him an allowance of four hundred crowns, and giving
him a house in Paris, which he occupied but seldom, because he lived most of the time at Fontainebleau,
where he had rooms and lived like a nobleman, appointed him superintendent over all the buildings,
pictures, and other ornaments of that place.

There, in the first place, Rosso made a beginning with a gallery over the lower court, which
he completed not with a vault, but with a ceiling, or rather, soffit, of woodwork, partitioned
most beautifully into compartments. The side-walls he decorated all over with stucco-work,
fantastic and bizarre in its distribution, and with carved cornices of many kinds; and on the
piers were lifesize figures. Everything below the cornices, between one pier and another, he
adorned with festoons of stucco, vastly rich, and others painted, and all composed of most
beautiful fruits and every sort of foliage. And then, in a large space, he caused to be painted
after his own designs, if what I have heard is true, about twenty-four scenes in fresco, representing,
I believe, the deeds of Alexander the Great; for which, as I have said, he made all the designs,
executing them in chiaroscuro with water-colours. At the two ends of this gallery are two panel-pictures
in oils by his hand, designed and painted with such perfection, that there is little better
to be seen in the art of painting. In one of these are a Bacchus and a Venus, executed with
marvellous art and judgment. The Bacchus is a naked boy, so tender, soft, and delicate, that
he seems to be truly of flesh, yielding to the touch, and rather alive than painted; and about
him are some vases painted in imitation of gold, silver, crystal, and various precious stones,
so fantastic, and surrounded by devices so many and so bizarre, that whoever beholds this work,
with its vast variety of invention, stands in amazement before it. Among other details, also,
is a Satyr raising part of a pavilion, whose head, in its strange, goatlike aspect, is a marvel
of beauty, and all the more because he seems to be smiling and full of joy at the sight of
so beautiful a boy. There is also a little boy riding on a wonderful bear, with many other
ornaments full of grace and beauty. In the other picture are Cupid and Venus, with other lovely
figures; but the figure to which Rosso gave the greatest attention was the Cupid, whom he represented
as a boy of twelve, although well grown, riper in features than is expected at that age, and
most beautiful in every part.

The King, seeing these works, and liking them vastly, conceived an extraordinary affection
for Rosso; wherefore no long time passed before he gave him a Canonicate in the Sainte Chapelle
of the Madonna at Paris, with so many other revenues and benefits, that Rosso lived like a
nobleman, with a goodly number of servants and horses, giving banquets and showing all manner
of courtesies to all his friends and acquaintances, especially to the Italian strangers who
arrived in those parts.

After this, he executed another hall, which is called the Pavilion, because it is in the form
of a Pavilion, being above the rooms on the first floor, and thus situated above any of the
others. This apartment he decorated from the level of the floor to the roof with a great variety
of beautiful ornaments in stucco, figures in the round distributed at equal intervals, and
children, festoons, and various kinds of animals. In the compartments on the walls are seated
figures in fresco, one in each; and such is their number, that there may be seen among them
images of all the Heathen Gods and Goddesses of the ancients. Last of all, above the windows,
is a frieze all adorned with stucco, and very rich, but without pictures.

He then executed a vast number of works in many chambers, bathrooms, and other apartments,
both in stucco and in painting, of some of which drawings may be seen, executed in engraving
and published abroad, which are full of grace and beauty; as are also the numberless designs
that Rosso made for salt-cellars, vases, bowls, and other things of fancy, all of which the
King afterwards caused to be executed in silver; but these were so numerous that it would take
too long to mention them all. Let it be enough to say that he made designs for all the vessels
of a sideboard for the King, and for all the details of the trappings of horses, triumphal
masquerades, and everything else that it is possible to imagine, showing in these such fantastic
and bizarre conceptions, that no one could do better.

In the year 1540, when the Emperor Charles V went to France under the safeguard of King Francis,
and visited Fontainebleau, having with him not more than twelve men, Rosso executed one half
of the decorations that the King ordained in order to honour that great Emperor, and the other
half was executed by Francesco Primaticcio of Bologna. The works that Rosso made, such as arches,
colossal figures, and other things of that kind, were, so it was said at the time, the most
astounding that had ever been made by any man up to that age. But a great part of the rooms
finished by Rosso at the aforesaid Palace of Fontainebleau were destroyed after his death by
the same Francesco Primaticcio, who has made a new and larger structure in the same place.

Among those who worked with Rosso on the aforesaid decorations in stucco and relief, and beloved
by him beyond all the others, were the Florentine Lorenzo Naldino, Maestro Francesco of Orleans,
Maestro Simone of Paris, Maestro Claudio, likewise a Parisian, Maestro Lorenzo of Picardy,
and many others. But the best of them all was Domenico del Barbieri, who is an excellent painter
and master of stucco, and a marvellous draughtsman, as is proved by his engraved works, which
may be numbered among the best in common circulation. The painters, likewise, whom he employed
in those works at Fontainebleau, were Luca Penni, brother of Giovan Francesco Penni, called
Il Fattore, who was a disciple of Raffaello da Urbino; the Fleming Leonardo, a very able painter,
who executed the designs of Rosso to perfection in colours; Bartolommeo Miniati, a Florentine;
with Francesco Caccianimici, and Giovan Battista da Bagnacavallo. These last entered his service
when Francesco Primaticcio went by order of the King to Rome, to make moulds of the Laocoon,
the Apollo, and many other choice antiquities, for the purpose of casting them afterwards in
bronze. I say nothing of the carvers, the master-joiners, and innumerable others of whom Rosso
availed himself in those works, because there is no need to speak of them all, although many
of them executed works worthy of much praise.

In addition to the things mentioned above, Rosso executed with his own hand a S. Michael, which
is a rare work. For the Constable he painted a panel-picture of the Dead Christ, a choice thing,
which is at a seat of that noble, called Ecouen; and he also executed some exquisite miniatures
for the King. He then drew a book of anatomical studies, intending to have it printed in France;
of which there are some sheets by his own hand in our book of drawings. Among his possessions,
also, after he was dead, were found two very beautiful cartoons, in one of which is a Leda
of singular beauty, and in the other the Tiburtine Sibyl showing to the Emperor Octavian the
Glorious Virgin with the Infant Christ in her arms. In the latter he drew the King, the Queen,
their Guard, and the people, with such a number of figures, and all so well drawn, that it
may be said with truth that this was one of the most beautiful things that Rosso ever did.

By reason of these works and many others, of which nothing is known, he became so dear to the
King, that a little before his death he found himself in possession of more than a thousand
crowns of income, without counting the allowances for his work, which were enormous; insomuch
that, living no longer as a painter, but rather as a prince, he kept a number of servants and
horses to ride, and had his house filled with tapestries, silver, and other valuable articles
of furniture. But Fortune, who never, or very seldom, maintains for long in high estate one
who puts his trust too much in her, brought him headlong down in the strangest manner ever
known. For while Francesco di Pellegrino, a Florentine, who delighted in painting and was very
much his friend, was associating with him in the closest intimacy, Rosso was robbed of some
hundreds of ducats; whereupon the latter, suspecting that no one but the same Francesco could
have done this, had him arrested by the hands of justice, rigorously examined, and grievously
tortured. But he, knowing himself innocent, and declaring nothing but the truth, was finally
released; and, moved by just anger, he was forced to show his resentment against Rosso for
the shameful charge that he had falsely laid upon him. Having therefore issued a writ for libel
against him, he pressed him so closely, that Rosso, not being able to clear himself or make
any defence, felt himself to be in a sorry plight, perceiving that he had not only accused
his friend falsely, but had also stained his own honour; and to eat his words, or to adopt
any other shameful method, would likewise proclaim him a false and worthless man. Resolving,
therefore, to kill himself by his own hand rather than be punished by others, he took the following
course. One day that the King happened to be at Fontainebleau, he sent a peasant to Paris for
a certain most poisonous essence, pretending that he wished to use it for making colours or
varnishes, but intending to poison himself, as he did. The peasant, then, returned with it;
and such was the malignity of the poison, that, merely through holding his thumb over the mouth
of the phial, carefully stopped as it was with wax, he came very near losing that member, which
was consumed and almost eaten away by the deadly potency of the poison. And shortly afterwards
it slew Rosso, although he was in perfect health, he having drunk it to the end that it might
take his life, as it did in a few hours.

This news, being brought to the King, grieved him beyond measure, since it seemed to him that
by the death of Rosso he had lost the most excellent craftsman of his day. However, to the
end that the work might not suffer, he had it carried on by Francesco Primaticcio of Bologna,
who, as has been related, had already done much work for him; giving him a good Abbey, even
as he had presented a Canonicate to Rosso.

Rosso died in the year 1541, leaving great regrets behind him among his friends and brother-craftsmen,
who have learned by his example what benefits may accrue from a prince to one who is eminent
in every field of art, and well-mannered and gentle in all his actions, as was that master,
who for many reasons deserved, and still deserves, to be admired as one truly most excellent.

BARTOLOMMEO DA BAGNACAVALLO AND OTHERS

LIVES OF BARTOLOMMEO DA BAGNACAVALLO, AND OTHER PAINTERS OF ROMAGNA

It is certain that the result of emulation in the arts, caused by a desire for glory, proves
for the most part to be one worthy of praise; but when it happens that the aspirant, through
presumption and arrogance, comes to hold an inflated opinion of himself, in course of time
the name for excellence that he seeks may be seen to dissolve into mist and smoke, for the
reason that there is no advance to perfection possible for him who knows not his own failings
and has no fear of the work of others. More readily does hope mount towards proficience for
those modest and studious spirits who, leading an upright life, honour the works of rare masters
and imitate them with all diligence, than for those who have their heads full of smoky pride,
as had Bartolommeo da Bagnacavallo, Amico of Bologna, Girolamo da Cotignola, and Innocenzio
da Imola, painters all, who, living in Bologna at one and the same time, felt the greatest
jealousy of one another that could possibly be imagined. And, what is more, their pride and
vainglory, not being based on the foundation of ability, led them astray from the true path,
which brings to immortality those who strive more from love of good work than from rivalry.
This circumstance, then, was the reason that they did not crown the good beginnings that they
had made with that final excellence which they expected; for their presuming to the name of
masters turned them too far aside from the good way.

Bartolommeo da Bagnacavallo had come to Rome in the time of Raffaello, in order to attain with
his works to that perfection which he believed himself to be already grasping with his intellect.
And being a young man who had some fame at Bologna and had awakened expectations, he was set
to execute a work in the Church of the Pace at Rome, in the first chapel on the right hand
as one enters the church, above the chapel of Baldassarre Peruzzi of Siena. But, thinking that
he had not achieved the success that he had promised himself, he returned to Bologna. There
he and the others mentioned above, in competition one with another, executed each a scene from
the Lives of Christ and His Mother in the Chapel of the Madonna in S. Petronio, near the door
of the façade, on the right hand as one enters the church; among which little difference in
merit is to be seen between one and another. But Bartolommeo acquired from this work the reputation
of having a manner both softer and stronger than the others; and although there is a vast number
of strange things in the scene of Maestro Amico, in which he depicted the Resurrection of Christ
with armed men in crouching and distorted attitudes, and many soldiers crushed flat by the
stone of the Sepulchre, which has fallen upon them, nevertheless that of Bartolommeo, as having
more unity of design and colouring, was more extolled by other craftsmen. On account of this
Bartolommeo associated himself with Biagio Bolognese, a person with much more practice than
excellence in art; and they executed in company at S. Salvatore, for the Frati Scopetini, a
refectory which they painted partly in fresco and partly "a secco," containing the scene of
Christ satisfying five thousand people with five loaves and two fishes. They painted, also,
on a wall of the library, the Disputation of S. Augustine, wherein they made a passing good
view in perspective. These masters, thanks to having seen the works of Raffaello and associated
with him, had a certain quality which, upon the whole, gave promise of excellence, but in truth
they did not attend as they should have done to the more subtle refinements of art. Yet, since
there were no painters in Bologna at that time who knew more than they did, they were held
by those who then governed the city, as well as by all the people, to be the best masters in Italy.

By the hand of Bartolommeo are some round pictures in fresco under the vaulting of the Palace
of the Podestà, and a scene of the Visitation of S. Elizabeth in S. Vitale, opposite to the
Palace of the Fantucci. In the Convent of the Servites at Bologna, round a panel-picture of
the Annunciation painted in oils, are some saints executed in fresco by Innocenzio da Imola.
In S. Michele in Bosco Bartolommeo painted in fresco the Chapel of Ramazzotto, a faction-leader
in Romagna. In a chapel in S. Stefano the same master painted two saints in fresco, with some
little angels of considerable beauty in the sky; and in S. Jacopo, for Messer Annibale del
Corello, a chapel in which he represented the Circumcision of Our Lord, with a number of figures,
above which, in a lunette, he painted Abraham sacrificing his son to God. This work, in truth,
was executed in a good and able manner. For the Misericordia, without Bologna, he painted a
little panel-picture in distemper of Our Lady and some saints; with many pictures and other
works, which are in the hands of various persons in that city.

This master, in truth, was above mediocrity both in the uprightness of his life and in his
works, and he was superior to the others in drawing and invention, as may be seen from a drawing
in our book, wherein is Jesus Christ, as a boy, disputing with the Doctors in the Temple, with
a building executed with good mastery and judgment. In the end, he finished his life at the
age of fifty-eight.

He had always been much envied by Amico of Bologna, an eccentric man of extravagant brain,
whose figures, executed by him throughout all Italy, but particularly in Bologna, where he
spent most of his time, are equally eccentric and even mad, if one may say so. If, indeed,
the vast labour which Amico devoted to drawing had been pursued with a settled object, and
not by caprice, he might perchance have surpassed many whom we regard as rare and able men.
And even so, such is the value of persistent labour, that it is not possible that out of a
mass of work there should not be found some that is good and worthy of praise; and such, among
the vast number of works that this master executed, is a façade in chiaroscuro on the Piazza
de' Marsigli, wherein are many historical pictures, with a frieze of animals fighting together,
very spirited and well executed, which is almost the best work that he ever painted. He painted
another façade at the Porta di S. Mammolo, and a frieze round the principal chapel of S. Salvatore,
so extravagant and so full of absurdities that it would provoke laughter in one who was on
the verge of tears. In a word, there is no church or street in Bologna which has not some daub
by the hand of this master.

In Rome, also, he painted not a little; and in S. Friano, at Lucca, he filled a chapel with
inventions fantastic and bizarre, among which are some things worthy of praise, such as the
stories of the Cross and some of S. Augustine. In these are innumerable portraits of distinguished
persons of that city; and, to tell the truth, this was one of the best works that Maestro Amico
ever executed with colours in fresco.

In S. Jacopo, at Bologna, he painted at the altar of S. Niccola some stories of the latter
Saint, and below these a frieze with views in perspective, which deserve to be extolled. When
the Emperor Charles V visited Bologna, Amico made a triumphal arch, for which Alfonso Lombardi
executed statues in relief, at the gate of the Palace. And it is no marvel that the work of
Amico revealed skill of hand rather than any other quality, for it is said that, like the eccentric
and extraordinary person that he was, he went through all Italy drawing and copying every work
of painting or relief, whether good or bad, on which account he became something of an adept
in invention; and when he found anything likely to be useful to him, he laid his hands upon
it eagerly, and then destroyed it, so that no one else might make use of it. The result of
all this striving was that he acquired the strange, mad manner that we know.

Finally, having reached the age of seventy, what with his art and the eccentricity of his life,
he became raving mad, at which Messer Francesco Guicciardini, a noble Florentine, and a most
trustworthy writer of the history of his own times, who was then Governor of Bologna, found
no small amusement, as did the whole city. Some people, however, believe that there was some
method mixed with this madness of his, because, having sold some property for a small price
while he was mad and in very great straits, he asked for it back again when he regained his
sanity, and recovered it under certain conditions, since he had sold it, so he said, when he
was mad. I do not swear, indeed, that this is true, for it may have been otherwise; but I do
say that I have often heard the story told.

=. Bologna: Pinacoteca, 297)

Alinari]

Amico also gave his attention to sculpture, and executed to the best of his ability, in marble,
a Dead Christ with Nicodemus supporting Him. This work, which he treated in the manner seen
in his pictures, is on the right within the entrance of the Church of S. Petronio. He used
to paint with both hands at the same time, holding in one the brush with the bright colour,
and in the other that with the dark. But the best joke of all was that he had his leather belt
hung all round with little pots full of tempered colours, so that he looked like the Devil
of S. Macario with all those flasks of his; and when he worked with his spectacles on his nose,
he would have made the very stones laugh, and particularly when he began to chatter, for then
he babbled enough for twenty, saying the strangest things in the world, and his whole demeanour
was a comedy. Certain it is that he never used to speak well of any person, however able or
good, and however well dowered he saw him to be by Nature or Fortune. And, as has been said,
he so loved to chatter and tell stories, that one evening, at the hour of the Ave Maria, when
a painter of Bologna, after buying cabbages in the Piazza, came upon Amico, the latter kept
him under the Loggia del Podestà with his talk and his amusing stories, without the poor man
being able to break away from him, almost till daylight, when Amico said: "Now go and boil
your cabbages, for the time is getting on."

He was the author of a vast number of other jokes and follies, of which I shall not make mention,
because it is now time to say something of Girolamo da Cotignola. This master painted many
pictures and portraits from life in Bologna, and among them are two in the house of the Vinacci,
which are very beautiful. He made a portrait after death of Monsignore de Foix, who died in
the rout of Ravenna, and not long after he executed a portrait of Massimiliano Sforza. For
S. Giuseppe he painted a panel-picture which brought him much praise, and, for S. Michele in
Bosco, the panel-picture in oils which is in the Chapel of S. Benedetto. The latter work led
to his executing, in company with Biagio Bolognese, all the scenes which are round that church,
laid on in fresco and executed "a secco," wherein are seen proofs of no little mastery, as
has been said in speaking of the manner of Biagio. The same Girolamo painted a large altar-piece
for S. Colomba at Rimini, in competition with Benedetto da Ferrara and Lattanzio, in which
work he made a S. Lucia rather wanton than beautiful. And in the great tribune of that church
he executed a Coronation of Our Lady, with the twelve Apostles and the four Evangelists, with
heads so gross and hideous that they are an outrage to the eye.

He then returned to Bologna, but had not been there long when he went to Rome, where he made
portraits from life of many men of rank, and in particular that of Pope Paul III. But, perceiving
that it was no place for him, and that he was not likely to acquire honour, profit, or fame
among so many noble craftsmen, he went off to Naples, where he found some friends who showed
him favour, and above all M. Tommaso Cambi, a Florentine merchant, and a devoted lover of pictures
and antiquities in marble, by whom he was supplied with everything of which he was in need.
Thereupon, setting to work, he executed a panel-picture of the Magi, in oils, for the chapel
of one M. Antonello, Bishop of I know not what place, in Monte Oliveto, and another panel-picture
in oils for S. Aniello, containing the Madonna, S. Paul, and S. John the Baptist, with portraits
from life for many noblemen.

Being now well advanced in years, he lived like a miser, and was always trying to save money;
and after no long time, having little more to do in Naples, he returned to Rome. There some
friends of his, having heard that he had saved a few crowns, persuaded him that he ought to
get married and live a properly-regulated life. And so, thinking that he was doing well for
himself, he let those friends deceive him so completely that they imposed upon him for a wife,
to suit their own convenience, a prostitute whom they had been keeping. Then, after he had
married her and come to a knowledge of her, the truth was revealed, at which the poor old man
was so grieved that he died in a few weeks at the age of sixty-nine.

And now to say something of Innocenzio da Imola. This master was for many years in Florence
with Mariotto Albertinelli; and then, having returned to Imola, he executed many works in that
place. But finally, at the persuasion of Count Giovan Battista Bentivogli, he went to live
in Bologna, where one of his first works was a copy of a picture formerly executed by Raffaello
da Urbino for Signor Leonello da Carpi. And for the Monks of S. Michele in Bosco he painted
in fresco, in their chapter-house, the Death of Our Lady and the Resurrection of Christ, works
which were executed with truly supreme diligence and finish. For the church of the same monks,
also, he painted the panel of the high-altar, the upper part of which is done in a good manner.
For the Servites of Bologna he executed an Annunciation on panel, and for S. Salvatore a Crucifixion,
with many pictures of various kinds throughout the whole city. At the Viola, for the Cardinal
of Ivrea, he painted three loggie in fresco, each containing two scenes, executed in colour
from designs by other painters, and yet finished with much diligence. He painted in fresco
a chapel in S. Jacopo, and for Madonna Benozza a panel-picture in oils, which was not otherwise
than passing good. He made a portrait, also, besides many others, of Cardinal Francesco Alidosio,
which I have seen at Imola, together with the portrait of Cardinal Bernardino Carvajal, and
both are works of no little beauty.

Innocenzio was a very good and modest person, and therefore always avoided any dealings or
intercourse with the painters of Bologna, who were quite the opposite in nature, and he was
always exerting himself beyond the limits of his strength; wherefore, when he fell sick of
a putrid fever at the age of fifty-six, it found him so weak and exhausted that it killed him
in a few days. He left unfinished, or rather, scarcely begun, a work that he had undertaken
without Bologna, and this was completed to perfection, according to the arrangement made by
Innocenzio before his death, by Prospero Fontana, a painter of Bologna.

The works of all the above-named painters date from 1506 to 1542, and there are drawings by
the hands of them all in our book.

FRANCIABIGIO

LIFE OF FRANCIABIGIO

[FRANCIA]

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

The fatigues that a man endures in this life in order to raise himself from the ground and
protect himself from poverty, succouring not only himself but also his nearest and dearest,
have such virtue, that the sweat and the hardships become full of sweetness, and bring comfort
and nourishment to the minds of others, insomuch that Heaven, in its bounty, perceiving one
drawn to a good life and to upright conduct, and also filled with zeal and inclination for
the studies of the sciences, is forced to be benign and favourably disposed towards him beyond
its wont; as it was, in truth, towards the Florentine painter Francia. This master, having
applied himself to the art of painting for a just and excellent reason, laboured therein not
so much out of a desire for fame as from a wish to bring assistance to his needy relatives;
and having been born in a family of humble artisans, people of low degree, he sought to raise
himself from that position. In this effort he was much spurred by his rivalry with Andrea del
Sarto, then his companion, with whom for a long time he shared both work-room and the painter's
life; on account of which life they made great proficience, one through the other, in the art
of painting.

Francia learned the first principles of art in his youth by living for some months with Mariotto
Albertinelli. And being much inclined to the study of perspective, at which he was always working
out of pure delight, while still quite young he gained a reputation for great ability in Florence.
The first works painted by him were a S. Bernard executed in fresco in S. Pancrazio, a church
opposite to his own house, and a S. Catharine of Siena, executed likewise in fresco, on a pilaster
in the Chapel of the Rucellai; whereby, exerting himself in that art, he gave proofs of his
fine qualities. Much more, even, was he established in repute by a picture which is in a little
chapel in S. Pietro Maggiore, containing Our Lady with the Child in her arms, and a little
S. John caressing Jesus Christ. He also gave proof of his excellence in a shrine executed in
fresco, in which he painted the Visitation of Our Lady, on a corner of the Church of S. Giobbe,
behind the Servite Convent in Florence. In the figure of that Madonna may be seen a goodness
truly appropriate, with profound reverence in that of the older woman; and the S. Job he painted
poor and leprous, and also rich and restored to health. This work so revealed his powers that
he came into credit and fame; whereupon the men who were the rulers of that church and brotherhood
gave him the commission for the panel-picture of their high-altar, in which Francia acquitted
himself even better; and in that work he painted a Madonna, and S. Job in poverty, and made
a portrait of himself in the face of S. John the Baptist.

There was built at that time, in S. Spirito at Florence, the Chapel of S. Niccola, in which
was placed a figure of that Saint in the round, carved in wood from the model by Jacopo Sansovino;
and Francia painted two little angels in two square pictures in oils, one on either side of
that figure, which were much extolled, and also depicted the Annunciation in two round pictures;
and the predella he adorned with little figures representing the miracles of S. Nicholas, executed
with such diligence that he deserves much praise for them. In S. Pietro Maggiore, by the door,
and on the right hand as one enters the church, is an Annunciation by his hand, wherein he
made the Angel still flying through the sky, and the Madonna receiving the Salutation on her
knees, in a most graceful attitude; and he drew there a building in perspective, which was
a masterly thing, and was much extolled. And, in truth, although Francia had a somewhat dainty
manner, because he was very laborious and constrained in his work, nevertheless he showed great
care and diligence in giving the true proportions of art to his figures.

=. Florence: SS. Annunziata)

Anderson]

He was commissioned to execute a scene in the cloister in front of the Church of the Servites,
in competition with Andrea del Sarto; and there he painted the Marriage of Our Lady, wherein
may be clearly recognized the supreme faith of Joseph, who shows in his face as much awe as
joy at his marriage with her. Besides this, Francia painted there one who is giving him some
blows, as is the custom in our own day, in memory of the wedding; and in a nude figure he expressed
very happily the rage and disappointment that drive him to break his rod, which had not blossomed,
the drawing of which, with many others, is in our book. In the company of Our Lady, also, he
painted some women with most beautiful expressions and head-dresses, things in which he always
delighted. And in all this scene he did not paint a single thing that was not very well considered;
as is, for example, a woman with a child in her arms, who, turning to go home, has cuffed another
child, who has sat down in tears and refuses to go, pressing one hand against his face in a
very graceful manner. Certain it is that he executed every detail in this scene, whether large
or small, with much diligence and love, on account of the burning desire that he had to show
therein to craftsmen and to all other good judges how great was his respect for the difficulties
of art, and how successfully he could solve them by faithful imitation.

Not long after this, on the occasion of a festival, the friars wished that the scenes of Andrea,
and likewise that of Francia, should be uncovered; and the night after Francia had finished
his with the exception of the base, they were so rash and presumptuous as to uncover them,
not thinking, in their ignorance of art, that Francia would want to retouch or otherwise change
his figures. In the morning, both the painting of Francia and those of Andrea were open to
view, and the news was brought to Francia that Andrea's works and his own had been uncovered;
at which he felt such resentment, that he was like to die of it. Seized with anger against
the friars on account of their presumption and the little respect that they had shown to him,
he set off at his best speed and came up to the work; and then, climbing on to the staging,
which had not yet been taken to pieces, although the painting had been uncovered, and seizing
a mason's hammer that was there, he beat some of the women's heads to fragments, and destroyed
that of the Madonna, and also tore almost completely away from the wall, plaster and all, a
nude figure that is breaking a rod. Hearing the noise, the friars ran up, and, with the help
of some laymen, seized his hands, to prevent him from destroying it completely. But, although
in time they offered to give him double payment, he, on account of the hatred that he had conceived
for them, would never restore it. By reason of the reverence felt by other painters both for
him and for the work, they have refused to finish it; and so it remains, even in our own day,
as a memorial of that event. This fresco is executed with such diligence and so much love,
and it is so beautiful in its freshness, that Francia may be said to have worked better in
fresco than any man of his time, and to have blended and harmonized his paintings in fresco
better than any other, without needing to retouch the colours; wherefore he deserves to be
much extolled both for this and for his other works.

At Rovezzano, without the Porta alla Croce, near Florence, he painted a shrine with a Christ
on the Cross and some saints; and in S. Giovannino, at the Porta a S. Piero Gattolini, he executed
a Last Supper of the Apostles in fresco.

No long time after, on the departure for France of the painter Andrea del Sarto, who had begun
to paint the stories of S. John the Baptist in chiaroscuro in a cloister of the Company of
the Scalzo at Florence, the men of that Company, desiring to have that work finished, engaged
Francia, to the end that he, being an imitator of the manner of Andrea, might complete the
paintings begun by the other. Thereupon Francia executed the decorations right round one part
of that cloister, and finished two of the scenes, which he painted with great diligence. These
are, first S. John the Baptist obtaining leave from his father Zacharias to go into the desert,
and then the meeting of Christ and S. John on the way, with Joseph and Mary standing there
and beholding them embrace one another. But more than this he did not do, on account of the
return of Andrea, who then went on to finish the rest of the work.

With Ridolfo Ghirlandajo he prepared a most beautiful festival for the marriage of Duke Lorenzo,
with two sets of scenery for the dramas that were performed, executing them with much method,
masterly judgment, and grace; on account of which he acquired credit and favour with that Prince.
This service was the reason that he received the commission for gilding the ceiling of the
Hall of Poggio a Caiano, in company with Andrea di Cosimo. And afterwards, in competition with
Andrea del Sarto and Jacopo da Pontormo, he began, on a wall in that hall, the scene of Cicero
being carried in triumph by the citizens of Rome. This work had been undertaken by the liberality
of Pope Leo, in memory of his father Lorenzo, who had caused the edifice to be built, and had
ordained that it should be painted with scenes from ancient history and other ornaments according
to his pleasure. And these had been entrusted by the learned historian, M. Paolo Giovio, Bishop
of Nocera, who was then chief in authority near the person of Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, to
Andrea del Sarto, Jacopo da Pontormo, and Franciabigio, that they might demonstrate the power
and perfection of their art in the work, each receiving thirty crowns every month from the
magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici. Thereupon Francia executed on his part, to say nothing of
the beauty of the scene, some buildings in perspective, very well proportioned. But the work
remained unfinished on account of the death of Leo; and afterwards, in the year 1532, it was
begun again by Jacopo da Pontormo at the commission of Duke Alessandro de' Medici, but he lingered
over it so long, that the Duke died and it was once more left unfinished.

But to return to Francia; so ardent was his love for the matters of art, that there was no
summer day on which he did not draw some study of a nude figure from the life in his work-room,
and to that end he always kept men in his pay. For S. Maria Nuova, at the request of Maestro
Andrea Pasquali, an excellent physician of Florence, he executed an anatomical figure, in consequence
of which he made a great advance in the art of painting, and pursued it ever afterwards with
more zeal. He then painted in the Convent of S. Maria Novella, in the lunette over the door
of the library, a S. Thomas confuting the heretics with his learning, a work which is executed
with diligence and a good manner. There, among other details, are two children who serve to
uphold an escutcheon in the ornamental border; and these are very fine, full of the greatest
beauty and grace, and painted in a most lovely manner.

He also executed a picture with little figures for Giovanni Maria Benintendi, in competition
with Jacopo da Pontormo, who painted another of the same size for that patron, containing the
story of the Magi; and two others were painted by Francesco d' Albertino.[12] In his work Francia
represented the scene of David seeing Bathsheba in her bath; and there he painted some women
in a manner too smooth and dainty, and drew a building in perspective, wherein is David giving
letters to the messengers, who are to carry them to the camp to the end that Uriah the Hittite
may meet his death; and under a loggia he painted a royal banquet of great beauty. This work
contributed greatly to the fame and honour of Francia, who, if he had much ability for large
figures, had much more for little figures.

Francia also made many most beautiful portraits from life; one, in particular, for Matteo Sofferroni,
who was very much his friend, and another for a countryman, the steward of Pier Francesco de'
Medici at the Palace of S. Girolamo da Fiesole, which seems absolutely alive, with many others.
And since he undertook any kind of work without being ashamed, so long as he was pursuing his
art, he set his hand to whatever commission was given to him; wherefore, in addition to many
works of the meanest kind, he painted a most beautiful "Noli me tangere" for the cloth-weaver
Arcangelo, at the top of a tower that serves as a terrace, in Porta Rossa; with an endless
number of other trivial works, executed by Francia because he was a person of sweet and kindly
nature and very obliging, of which there is no need to say more.

This master loved to live in peace, and for that reason would never take a wife; and he was
always repeating the trite proverb, "The fruits of a wife are cares and strife." He would never
leave Florence, because, having seen some works by Raffaello da Urbino, and feeling that he
was not equal to that great man and to many others of supreme renown, he did not wish to compete
with craftsmen of such rare excellence. In truth, the greatest wisdom and prudence that a man
can possess is to know himself, and to refrain from exalting himself beyond his true worth.
And, finally, having acquired much by constant work, for one who was not endowed by nature
with much boldness of invention or with any powers but those that he had gained by long study,
he died in the year 1524 at the age of forty-two.

One of Francia's disciples was his brother Agnolo, who died after having painted a frieze that
is in the cloister of S. Pancrazio, and a few other works. The same Agnolo painted for the
perfumer Ciano, an eccentric man, but respected after his kind, a sign for his shop, containing
a gipsy woman telling the fortune of a lady in a very graceful manner, which was the idea of
Ciano, and not without mystic meaning. Another who learnt to paint from the same master was
Antonio di Donnino Mazzieri, who was a bold draughtsman, and showed much invention in making
horses and landscapes. He painted in chiaroscuro the cloister of S. Agostino at Monte Sansovino,
executing therein scenes from the Old Testament, which were much extolled. In the Vescovado
of Arezzo he painted the Chapel of S. Matteo, with a scene, among other things, showing that
Saint baptizing a King, in which he made a portrait of a German, so good that it seems to be
alive. For Francesco del Giocondo he executed the story of the Martyrs in a chapel behind the
choir of the Servite Church in Florence; but in this he acquitted himself so badly, that he
lost all his credit and was reduced to undertaking any sort of work.

Francia taught his art also to a young man named Visino, who, to judge from what we see of
him, would have become an excellent painter, if he had not died young, as he did; and to many
others, of whom I shall make no further mention. He was buried by the Company of S. Giobbe
in S. Pancrazio, opposite to his own house, in the year 1525; and his death was truly a great
grief to all good craftsmen, seeing that he had been a talented and skilful master, and very
modest in his every action.

FOOTNOTE:

[12] Francesco Ubertini, called Il Bacchiacca.

MORTO DA FELTRO AND ANDREA DI COSIMO FELTRINI

LIVES OF MORTO DA FELTRO AND OF ANDREA DI COSIMO FELTRINI

PAINTERS

The painter Morto da Feltro, who was as original in his life as he was in his brain and in
the new fashion of grotesques that he made, which caused him to be held in great estimation,
found his way as a young man to Rome at the time when Pinturicchio was painting the Papal apartments
for Alexander VI, with the loggie and lower rooms in the Great Tower of the Castello di S.
Angelo, and some of the upper apartments. He was a melancholy person, and was constantly studying
the antiquities; and seeing among them sections of vaults and ranges of walls adorned with
grotesques, he liked these so much that he never ceased from examining them. And so well did
he grasp the methods of drawing foliage in the ancient manner, that he was second to no man
of his time in that profession. He was never tired, indeed, of examining all that he could
find below the ground in Rome in the way of ancient grottoes, with vaults innumerable. He spent
many months in Hadrian's Villa at Tivoli, drawing all the pavements and grottoes that are there,
both above ground and below. And hearing that at Pozzuolo, in the Kingdom of Naples, ten miles
from the city, there were many walls covered with ancient grotesques, both executed in relief
with stucco and painted, and said to be very beautiful, he devoted several months to studying
them on the spot. Nor was he content until he had drawn every least thing in the Campana, an
ancient road in that place, full of antique sepulchres; and he also drew many of the temples
and grottoes, both above and below the ground, at Trullo, near the seashore. He went to Baia
and Mercato di Sabbato, both places full of ruined buildings covered with scenes, searching
out everything in such a manner that by means of his long and loving labour he grew vastly
in power and knowledge of his art.

Having then returned to Rome, he worked there many months, giving his attention to figures,
since he considered that in that part of his profession he was not the master that he was held
to be in the execution of grotesques. And after he had conceived this desire, hearing the renown
that Leonardo and Michelagnolo had in that art on account of the cartoons executed by them
in Florence, he set out straightway to go to that city. But, after he had seen those works,
he did not think himself able to make the same improvement that he had made in his first profession,
and he went back, therefore, to work at his grotesques.

There was then living in Florence one Andrea di Cosimo Feltrini, a painter of that city, and
a young man of much diligence, who received Morto into his house and entertained him with most
affectionate attentions. Finding pleasure in the nature of Morto's art, Andrea also gave his
mind to that vocation, and became an able master, being in time even more excellent than Morto,
and much esteemed in Florence, as will be told later. And it was through Andrea that Morto
came to paint for Piero Soderini, who was then Gonfalonier, decorations of grotesques in an
apartment of the Palace, which were held to be very beautiful; but in our own day these have
been destroyed in rearranging the apartments of Duke Cosimo, and repainted. For Maestro Valerio,
a Servite friar, Morto decorated the empty space on a chair-back, which was a most beautiful
work; and for Agnolo Doni, likewise, in a chamber, he executed many pictures with a variety
of bizarre grotesques. And since he also delighted in figures, he painted Our Lady in some
round pictures, in order to see whether he could become as famous for them as he was (for his
grotesques).

Then, having grown weary of staying in Florence, he betook himself to Venice; and attaching
himself to Giorgione da Castelfranco, who was then painting the Fondaco de' Tedeschi, he set
himself to assist him and executed the ornamentation of that work. And in this way he remained
many months in that city, attracted by the sensuous pleasures and delights that he found there.

He then went to execute works in Friuli, but he had not been there long when, finding that
the rulers of Venice were enlisting soldiers, he entered their service; and before he had had
much experience of that calling he was made Captain of two hundred men. The army of the Venetians
had advanced by that time to Zara in Sclavonia; and one day, when a brisk skirmish took place,
Morto, desiring to win a greater name in that profession than he had gained in the art of painting,
went bravely forward, and, after fighting in the mêlée, was left dead on the field, even as
he had always been in name,[13] at the age of forty-five. But in fame he will never be dead,
because those who exercise their hands in the arts and produce everlasting works, leaving memorials
of themselves after death, are destined never to suffer the death of their labours, for writers,
in their gratitude, bear witness to their talents. Eagerly, therefore, should our craftsmen
spur themselves on with incessant study to such a goal as will ensure them an undying name
both through their own works and through the writings of others, since, by so doing, they will
gain eternal life both for themselves and for the works that they leave behind them after death.

Morto restored the painting of grotesques in a manner more like the ancient than was achieved
by any other painter, and for this he deserves infinite praise, in that it is after his example
that they have been brought in our own day, by the hands of Giovanni da Udine and other craftsmen,
to the great beauty and excellence that we see. For, although the said Giovanni and others
have carried them to absolute perfection, it is none the less true that the chief praise is
due to Morto, who was the first to bring them to light and to devote his whole attention to
paintings of that kind, which are called grotesques because they were found for the most part
in the grottoes of the ruins of Rome; besides which, every man knows that it is easy to make
additions to anything once it has been discovered.

The painting of grotesques was continued in Florence by Andrea Feltrini, called Di Cosimo,
because he was a disciple of Cosimo Rosselli in the study of figures (which he executed passing
well), as he was afterwards of Morto in that of grotesques, of which we have spoken. In this
kind of painting Andrea had from nature such power of invention and such grace that he was
the first to make ornaments of greater grandeur, abundance, and richness than the ancient,
and quite different in manner; and he gave them better order and cohesion, and enriched them
with figures, such as are not seen in Rome or in any other place but Florence, where he executed
a great number. In this respect there has never been any man who has surpassed him in excellence,
as may be seen from the ornament and the predella painted with little grotesques in colour
round the Pietà that Pietro Perugino executed for the altar of the Serristori in S. Croce at
Florence. These are heightened with various colours on a ground of red and black mixed together,
and are wrought with much facility and with extraordinary boldness and grace.

Andrea introduced the practice of covering the façades of houses and palaces with an intonaco
of lime mixed with the black of ground charcoal, or rather, burnt straw, on which intonaco,
when still fresh, he spread a layer of white plaster. Then, having drawn the grotesques, with
such divisions as he desired, on some cartoons, he dusted them over the intonaco, and proceeded
to scratch it with an iron tool, in such a way that his designs were traced over the whole
façade by that tool; after which, scraping away the white from the grounds of the grotesques,
he went on to shade them or to hatch a good design upon them with the same iron tool. Finally,
he went over the whole work, shading it with a liquid water-colour like water tinted with black.
All this produces a very pleasing, rich, and beautiful effect; and there was an account of
the method in the twenty-sixth chapter, dealing with sgraffiti, in the Treatise on Technique.

The first façades that Andrea executed in this manner were that of the Gondi, which is full
of delicacy and grace, in Borg' Ognissanti, and that of Lanfredino Lanfredini, which is very
ornate and rich in the variety of its compartments, on the Lungarno between the Ponte S. Trinita
and the Ponte della Carraja, near S. Spirito. He also decorated in sgraffito the house of Andrea
and Tommaso Sertini, near S. Michele in Piazza Padella, making it more varied and grander in
manner than the two others. He painted in chiaroscuro the façade of the Church of the Servite
Friars, for which work he caused the painter Tommaso di Stefano to paint in two niches the
Angel bringing the Annunciation to the Virgin; and in the court, where there are the stories
of S. Filippo and of Our Lady painted by Andrea del Sarto, he executed between the two doors
a very beautiful escutcheon of Pope Leo X. And on the occasion of the visit of that Pontiff
to Florence he executed many beautiful ornaments in the form of grotesques on the façade of
S. Maria del Fiore, for Jacopo Sansovino, who gave him his sister for wife. He executed the
baldachin under which the Pope walked, covering the upper part with most beautiful grotesques,
and the hangings round it with the arms of that Pope and other devices of the Church; and this
baldachin was afterwards presented to the Church of S. Lorenzo in Florence, where it is still
to be seen. He also decorated many standards and banners for the visit of Leo, and in honour
of many who were made Chevaliers by that Pontiff and by other Princes, of which there are some
hung up in various churches in that city.

Andrea, working constantly in the service of the house of Medici, assisted at the preparations
for the wedding of Duke Giuliano and that of Duke Lorenzo, executing an abundance of various
ornaments in the form of grotesques; and so, also, in the obsequies of those Princes. In all
this he was largely employed by Franciabigio, Andrea del Sarto, Pontormo, and Ridolfo Ghirlandajo,
and by Granaccio for triumphal processions and other festivals, since nothing good could be
done without him. He was the best man that ever touched a brush, and, being timid by nature,
he would never undertake any work on his own account, because he was afraid of exacting the
money for his labours. He delighted to work the whole day long, and disliked annoyances of
any kind; for which reason he associated himself with the gilder Mariotto di Francesco, one
of the most able and skilful men at his work that ever existed in the world of art, very adroit
in obtaining commissions, and most dexterous in exacting payments and doing business. This
Mariotto also brought the gilder Raffaello di Biagio into the partnership, and the three worked
together, sharing equally all the earnings of the commissions that they executed; and this
association lasted until death parted them, Mariotto being the last to die.

To return to the works of Andrea; he decorated for Giovanni Maria Benintendi all the ceilings
of his house, and executed the ornamentation of the ante-chambers, wherein are the scenes painted
by Franciabigio and Jacopo da Pontormo. He went with Franciabigio to Poggio, and executed in
terretta the ornaments for all the scenes there in such a way that there is nothing better
to be seen. For the Chevalier Guidotti he decorated in sgraffito the façade of his house in
the Via Larga, and he also executed another of great beauty for Bartolommeo Panciatichi, on
the house (now belonging to Ruberto de' Ricci) which he built on the Piazza degli Agli. Nor
am I able to describe all the friezes, coffers, and strong-boxes, or the vast quantity of ceilings,
which Andrea decorated with his own hand, for the whole city is full of these, and I must refrain
from speaking of them. But I must mention the round escutcheons of various kinds that he made,
for they were such that no wedding could take place without his having his workshop besieged
by one citizen or another; nor could any kind of brocade, linen, or cloth of gold, with flowered
patterns, ever be woven, without his making the designs for them, and that with so much variety,
grace, and beauty, that he breathed spirit and life into all such things. If Andrea, indeed,
had known his own value, he would have made a vast fortune; but it sufficed him to live in
love with his art.

I must not omit to tell that in my youth, while in the service of Duke Alessandro de' Medici,
I was commissioned, when Charles V came to Florence, to make the banners for the Castle, or
rather, as it is called at the present day, the Citadel; and among these was a standard of
crimson cloth, eighteen braccia wide at the staff and forty in length, and surrounded by borders
of gold containing the devices of the Emperor Charles V and of the house of Medici, with the
arms of his Majesty in the centre. For this work, in which were used forty-five thousand leaves
of gold, I summoned to my assistance Andrea for the borders and Mariotto for the gilding; and
many things did I learn from that good Andrea, so full of love and kindness for those who were
studying art. And so great did the skill of Andrea then prove to be, that, besides availing
myself of him for many details of the arches that were erected for the entry of his Majesty,
I chose him as my companion, together with Tribolo, when Madama Margherita, daughter of Charles
V, came to be married to Duke Alessandro, in making the festive preparations that I executed
in the house of the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici on the Piazza di S. Marco, which was adorned
with grotesques by his hand, with statues by the hand of Tribolo, and with figures and scenes
by my hand. At the last he was much employed for the obsequies of Duke Alessandro, and even
more for the marriage of Duke Cosimo, when all the devices in the courtyard, described by M.
Francesco Giambullari, who wrote an account of the festivities of that wedding, were painted
by Andrea with ornaments of great variety. And then Andrea--who, by reason of a melancholy
humour which often oppressed him, was on many occasions on the point of taking his own life,
but was observed so closely and guarded so well by his companion Mariotto that he lived to
be an old man--finished the course of his life at the age of sixty-four, leaving behind him
the name of a good and even rarely excellent master of grotesque-painting in our own times,
wherein every succeeding craftsman has always imitated his manner, not only in Florence, but
also in other places.

FOOTNOTE:

[13] From the word "Morto," which means "dead."

MARCO CALAVRESE

LIFE OF MARCO CALAVRESE

PAINTER

When the world possesses some great light in any science, every least part is illuminated by
its rays, some with greater brightness and some with less; and the miracles that result are
also greater or less according to differences of air and place. Constantly, in truth, do we
see a particular country producing a particular kind of intellect fitted for a particular kind
of work, for which others are not fitted, nor can they ever attain, whatever labours they may
endure, to the goal of supreme excellence. And if we marvel when we see growing in some province
a fruit that has not been wont to grow there, much more can we rejoice in a man of fine intellect
when we find him in a country where men of the same bent are not usually born. Thus it was
with the painter Marco Calavrese, who, leaving his own country, chose for his habitation the
sweet and pleasant city of Naples. He had been minded, indeed, on setting out, to make his
way to Rome, and there to achieve the end that rewards the student of painting; but the song
of the Siren was so sweet to him, and all the more because he delighted to play on the lute,
and the soft waters of Sebeto so melted his heart, that he remained a prisoner in body of that
land until he rendered up his spirit to Heaven and his mortal flesh to earth.

Marco executed innumerable works in oils and in fresco, and he proved himself more able than
any other man who was practising the same art in that country in his day. Of this we have proof
in the work that he executed at Aversa, ten miles distant from Naples; and, above all, in a
panel-picture in oils on the high-altar of the Church of S. Agostino, with a large ornamental
frame, and various pictures painted with scenes and figures, in which he represented S. Augustine
disputing with the heretics, with stories of Christ and Saints in various attitudes both above
and at the sides. In this work, which shows a manner full of harmony and drawing towards the
good manner of our modern works, may also be seen great beauty and facility of colouring; and
it was one of the many labours that he executed in that city and for various places in the kingdom.

Marco always lived a gay life, enjoying every minute to the full, for the reason that, having
no rivalry to contend with in painting from other craftsmen, he was always adored by the Neapolitan
nobles, and contrived to have himself rewarded for his works by ample payments. And so, having
come to the age of fifty-six, he ended his life after an ordinary illness.

He left a disciple in Giovan Filippo Crescione, a painter of Naples, who executed many pictures
in company with his brother-in-law, Leonardo Castellani, as he still does; but of these men,
since they are alive and in constant practice of their art, there is no need to make mention.

The pictures of Maestro Marco were executed by him between 1508 and 1542. He had a companion
in another Calabrian (whose name I do not know), who worked for a long time in Rome with Giovanni
da Udine and executed many works by himself in that city, particularly façades in chiaroscuro.
The same Calabrian also painted in fresco the Chapel of the Conception in the Church of the
Trinità, with much skill and diligence.

At this same time lived Niccola, commonly called by everyone Maestro Cola dalla Matrice, who
executed many works in Calabria, at Ascoli, and at Norcia, which are very well known, and which
gained for him the name of a rare master--the best, indeed, that there had ever been in these
parts. And since he also gave his attention to architecture, all the buildings that were erected
in his day at Ascoli and throughout all that province had him as architect. Cola, without caring
to see Rome or to change his country, remained always at Ascoli, living happily for some time
with his wife, a woman of good and honourable family, and endowed with extraordinary nobility
of spirit, as was proved when the strife of parties arose at Ascoli, in the time of Pope Paul
III. For then, while she was flying with her husband, with many soldiers in pursuit, more on
her account (for she was a very beautiful young woman) than for any other reason, she resolved,
not seeing any other way in which she could save her own honour and the life of her husband,
to throw herself from a high cliff to the depth below. At which all the soldiers believed that
she was not only mortally injured, but dashed to pieces, as indeed she was; wherefore they
left the husband without doing him any harm, and returned to Ascoli. After the death of this
extraordinary woman, worthy of eternal praise, Maestro Cola passed the rest of his life with
little happiness. A short time afterwards, Signor Alessandro Vitelli, who had become Lord of
Matrice,[14] took Maestro Cola, now an old man, to Città di Castello, where he caused him to
paint in his palace many works in fresco and many other pictures; which works finished, Maestro
Cola returned to finish his life at Matrice.

This master would have acquitted himself not otherwise than passing well, if he had practised
his art in places where rivalry and emulation might have made him attend with more study to
painting, and exercise the beautiful intellect with which it is evident that he was endowed
by nature.

FOOTNOTE:

[14] Amatrice.

FRANCESCO MAZZUOLI

LIFE OF FRANCESCO MAZZUOLI

[PARMIGIANO]

PAINTER OF PARMA

Among the many natives of Lombardy who have been endowed with the gracious gift of design,
with a lively spirit of invention, and with a particular manner of making beautiful landscapes
in their pictures, we should rate as second to none, and even place before all the rest, Francesco
Mazzuoli of Parma, who was bountifully endowed by Heaven with all those parts that are necessary
to make a supreme painter, insomuch that he gave to his figures, in addition to what has been
said of many others, a certain nobility, sweetness, and grace in the attitudes which belonged
to him alone. To his heads, likewise, it is evident that he gave all the consideration that
is needful; and his manner has therefore been studied and imitated by innumerable painters,
because he shed on art a light of grace so pleasing, that his works will always be held in
great price, and himself honoured by all students of design. Would to God that he had always
pursued the studies of painting, and had not sought to pry into the secrets of congealing mercury
in order to become richer than Nature and Heaven had made him; for then he would have been
without an equal, and truly unique in the art of painting, whereas, by searching for that which
he could never find, he wasted his time, wronged his art, and did harm to his own life and fame.

Francesco was born at Parma in the year 1504, and because he lost his father when he was still
a child of tender age, he was left to the care of two uncles, brothers of his father, and both
painters, who brought him up with the greatest lovingness, teaching him all those praiseworthy
ways that befit a Christian man and a good citizen. Then, having made some little growth, he
had no sooner taken pen in hand in order to learn to write, than he began, spurred by Nature,
who had consecrated him at his birth to design, to draw most marvellous things; and the master
who was teaching him to write, noticing this and perceiving to what heights the genius of the
boy might in time attain, persuaded his uncles to let him give his attention to design and
painting. Whereupon, being men of good judgment in matters of art, although they were old and
painters of no great fame, and recognizing that God and Nature had been the boy's first masters,
they did not fail to take the greatest pains to make him learn to draw under the discipline
of the best masters, to the end that he might acquire a good manner. And coming by degrees
to believe that he had been born, so to speak, with brushes in his fingers, on the one hand
they urged him on, and on the other, fearing lest overmuch study might perchance spoil his
health, they would sometimes hold him back. Finally, having come to the age of sixteen, and
having already done miracles of drawing, he painted a S. John baptizing Christ, of his own
invention, on a panel, which he executed in such a manner that even now whoever sees it stands
marvelling that such a work should have been painted so well by a boy. This picture was placed
in the Nunziata, the seat of the Frati de' Zoccoli at Parma. Not content with this, however,
Francesco resolved to try his hand at working in fresco, and therefore painted a chapel in
S. Giovanni Evangelista, a house of Black Friars of S. Benedict; and since he succeeded in
that kind of work, he painted as many as seven.

But about that time Pope Leo X sent Signor Prospero Colonna with an army to Parma, and the
uncles of Francesco, fearing that he might perchance lose time or be distracted, sent him in
company with his cousin, Girolamo Mazzuoli, another boy-painter, to Viadana, a place belonging
to the Duke of Mantua, where they lived all the time that the war lasted; and there Francesco
painted two panels in distemper. One of these, in which are S. Francis receiving the Stigmata,
and S. Chiara, was placed in the Church of the Frati de' Zoccoli; and the other, which contains
a Marriage of S. Catharine, with many figures, was placed in S. Piero. And let no one believe
that these are works of a young beginner, for they seem to be rather by the hand of a full-grown
master.

The war finished, Francesco, having returned with his cousin to Parma, first completed some
pictures that he had left unfinished at his departure, which are in the hands of various people.
After this he painted a panel-picture in oils of Our Lady with the Child in her arms, with
S. Jerome on one side and the Blessed Bernardino da Feltro on the other, and in the head of
one of these figures he made a portrait of the patron of the picture, which is so wonderful
that it lacks nothing save the breath of life. All these works he executed before he had reached
the age of nineteen.

Then, having conceived a desire to see Rome, like one who was on the path of progress and heard
much praise given to the works of good masters, and particularly to those of Raffaello and
Michelagnolo, he spoke out his mind and desire to his old uncles, who, thinking that such a
wish was not otherwise than worthy of praise, said that they were content that he should go,
but that it would be well for him to take with him some work by his own hand, which might serve
to introduce him to the noblemen of that city and to the craftsmen of his profession. This
advice was not displeasing to Francesco, and he painted three pictures, two small and one of
some size, representing in the last the Child in the arms of the Madonna, taking some fruits
from the lap of an Angel, and an old man with his arms covered with hair, executed with art
and judgment, and pleasing in colour. Besides this, in order to investigate the subtleties
of art, he set himself one day to make his own portrait, looking at himself in a convex barber's
mirror. And in doing this, perceiving the bizarre effects produced by the roundness of the
mirror, which twists the beams of a ceiling into strange curves, and makes the doors and other
parts of buildings recede in an extraordinary manner, the idea came to him to amuse himself
by counterfeiting everything. Thereupon he had a ball of wood made by a turner, and, dividing
it in half so as to make it the same in size and shape as the mirror, set to work to counterfeit
on it with supreme art all that he saw in the glass, and particularly his own self, which he
did with such lifelike reality as could not be imagined or believed. Now everything that is
near the mirror is magnified, and all that is at a distance is diminished, and thus he made
the hand engaged in drawing somewhat large, as the mirror showed it, and so marvellous that
it seemed to be his very own. And since Francesco had an air of great beauty, with a face and
aspect full of grace, in the likeness rather of an angel than of a man, his image on that ball
had the appearance of a thing divine. So happily, indeed, did he succeed in the whole of this
work, that the painting was no less real than the reality, and in it were seen the lustre of
the glass, the reflection of every detail, and the lights and shadows, all so true and natural,
that nothing more could have been looked for from the brain of man.

=. Parma: Gallery, 192)

Anderson]

Having finished these works, which were held by his old uncles to be out of the ordinary, and
even considered by many other good judges of art to be miracles of beauty, and having packed
up both pictures and portrait, he made his way to Rome, accompanied by one of the uncles. There,
after the Datary had seen the pictures and appraised them at their true worth, the young man
and his uncle were straightway introduced to Pope Clement, who, seeing the works and the youthfulness
of Francesco, was struck with astonishment, and with him all his Court. And afterwards his
Holiness, having first shown him much favour, said that he wished to commission him to paint
the Hall of the Popes, in which Giovanni da Udine had already decorated all the ceiling with
stucco-work and painting. And so, after presenting his pictures to the Pope, and receiving
various gifts and marks of favour in addition to his promises, Francesco, spurred by the praise
and glory that he heard bestowed upon him, and by the hope of the profit that he might expect
from so great a Pontiff, painted a most beautiful picture of the Circumcision, which was held
to be extraordinary in invention on account of three most fanciful lights that shone in the
work; for the first figures were illuminated by the radiance of the countenance of Christ,
the second received their light from others who were walking up some steps with burning torches
in their hands, bringing offerings for the sacrifice, and the last were revealed and illuminated
by the light of the dawn, which played upon a most lovely landscape with a vast number of buildings.
This picture finished, he presented it to the Pope, who did not do with it what he had done
with the others; for he had given the picture of Our Lady to Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici,
his nephew, and the mirror-portrait to Messer Pietro Aretino, the poet, who was in his service,
but the picture of the Circumcision he kept for himself; and it is believed that it came in
time into the possession of the Emperor. The mirror-portrait I remember to have seen, when
quite a young man, in the house of the same Messer Pietro Aretino at Arezzo, where it was sought
out as a choice work by the strangers passing through that city. Afterwards it fell, I know
not how, into the hands of Valerio Vicentino, the crystal-engraver, and it is now in the possession
of Alessandro Vittoria, a sculptor in Venice, the disciple of Jacopo Sansovino.

But to return to Francesco; while studying in Rome, he set himself to examine all the ancient
and modern works, both of sculpture and of painting, that were in that city, but held those
of Michelagnolo Buonarroti and Raffaello da Urbino in supreme veneration beyond all the others;
and it was said afterwards that the spirit of that Raffaello had passed into the body of Francesco,
when men saw how excellent the young man was in art, and how gentle and gracious in his ways,
as was Raffaello, and above all when it became known how much Francesco strove to imitate him
in everything, and particularly in painting. Nor was this study in vain, for many little pictures
that he painted in Rome, the greater part of which afterwards came into the hands of Cardinal
Ippolito de' Medici, were truly marvellous; and even such is a round picture with a very beautiful
Annunciation, executed by him for Messer Agnolo Cesis, which is now treasured as a rare work
in the house of that family. He painted a picture, likewise, of the Madonna with Christ, some
Angels, and a S. Joseph, which are beautiful to a marvel on account of the expressions of the
heads, the colouring, and the grace and diligence with which they are seen to have been executed.
This work was formerly in the possession of Luigi Gaddi, and it must now be in the hands of
his heirs.

Hearing the fame of this master, Signor Lorenzo Cibo, Captain of the Papal Guard, and a very
handsome man, had a portrait of himself painted by Francesco, who may be said to have made,
not a portrait, but a living figure of flesh and blood. Having then been commissioned to paint
for Madonna Maria Bufolini of Città di Castello a panel-picture which was to be placed in S.
Salvatore del Lauro, in a chapel near the door, Francesco painted in it a Madonna in the sky,
who is reading and has the Child between her knees, and on the earth he made a figure of S.
John, kneeling on one knee in an attitude of extraordinary beauty, turning his body, and pointing
to the Infant Christ; and lying asleep on the ground, in foreshortening, is a S. Jerome in
Penitence.

But he was prevented from bringing this work to completion by the ruin and sack of Rome in
1527, which was the reason not only that the arts were banished for a time, but also that many
craftsmen lost their lives. And Francesco, also, came within a hair's breadth of losing his,
seeing that at the beginning of the sack he was so intent on his work, that, when the soldiers
were entering the houses, and some Germans were already in his, he did not move from his painting
for all the uproar that they were making; but when they came upon him and saw him working,
they were so struck with astonishment at the work, that, like the gentlemen that they must
have been, they let him go on. And thus, while the impious cruelty of those barbarous hordes
was ruining the unhappy city and all its treasures, both sacred and profane, without showing
respect to either God or man, Francesco was provided for and greatly honoured by those Germans,
and protected from all injury. All the hardship that he suffered at that time was this, that
he was forced, one of them being a great lover of painting, to make a vast number of drawings
in water-colours and with the pen, which formed the payment of his ransom. But afterwards,
when these soldiers changed their quarters, Francesco nearly came to an evil end, because,
going to look for some friends, he was made prisoner by other soldiers and compelled to pay
as ransom some few crowns that he possessed. Wherefore his uncle, grieved by that and by the
fact that this disaster had robbed Francesco of his hopes of acquiring knowledge, honour, and
profit, and seeing Rome almost wholly in ruins and the Pope the prisoner of the Spaniards,
determined to take him back to Parma. And so he set Francesco on his way to his native city,
but himself remained for some days in Rome, where he deposited the panel-picture painted for
Madonna Maria Bufolini with the Friars of the Pace, in whose refectory it remained for many
years, until finally it was taken by Messer Giulio Bufolini to the church of his family in
Città di Castello.

Having arrived in Bologna, and finding entertainment with many friends, and particularly in
the house of his most intimate friend, a saddler of Parma, Francesco stayed some months in
that city, where the life pleased him, during which time he had some works engraved and printed
in chiaroscuro, among others the Beheading of S. Peter and S. Paul, and a large figure of Diogenes.
He also prepared many others, in order to have them engraved on copper and printed, having
with him for this purpose one Maestro Antonio da Trento; but he did not carry this intention
into effect at the time, because he was forced to set his hand to executing many pictures and
other works for gentlemen of Bologna. The first picture by his hand that was seen at Bologna
was a S. Rocco of great size in the Chapel of the Monsignori in S. Petronio; to which Saint
he gave a marvellous aspect, making him very beautiful in every part, and conceiving him as
somewhat relieved from the pain that the plague-sore in the thigh gave him, which he shows
by looking with uplifted head towards Heaven in the act of thanking God, as good men do in
spite of the adversities that fall upon them. This work he executed for one Fabrizio da Milano,
of whom he painted a portrait from the waist upwards in the picture, with the hands clasped,
which seems to be alive; and equally real, also, seems a dog that is there, with some landscapes
which are very beautiful, Francesco being particularly excellent in this respect.

He then painted for Albio, a physician of Parma, a Conversion of S. Paul, with many figures
and a landscape, which was a very choice work. And for his friend the saddler he executed another
picture of extraordinary beauty, containing a Madonna turned to one side in a lovely attitude,
and several other figures. He also painted a picture for Count Giorgio Manzuoli, and two canvases
in gouache, with some little figures, all graceful and well executed, for Maestro Luca dai Leuti.

One morning about this time, while Francesco was still in bed, the aforesaid Antonio da Trento,
who was living with him as his engraver, opened a strong-box and robbed him of all the copper-plate
engravings, woodcuts, and drawings that he possessed; and he must have gone off to the Devil,
for all the news that was ever heard of him. The engravings and woodcuts, indeed, Francesco
recovered, for Antonio had left them with a friend in Bologna, perchance with the intention
of reclaiming them at his convenience; but the drawings he was never able to get back. Driven
almost out of his mind by this, he returned to his painting, and made a portrait, for the sake
of money, of I know not what Count of Bologna. After that he painted a picture of Our Lady,
with a Christ who is holding a globe of the world. The Madonna has a most beautiful expression,
and the Child is also very natural; for he always gave to the faces of children a vivacious
and truly childlike air, which yet reveals that subtle and mischievous spirit that children
often have. And he attired the Madonna in a very unusual fashion, clothing her in a garment
that had sleeves of yellowish gauze, striped, as it were, with gold, which gave a truly beautiful
and graceful effect, revealing the flesh in a natural and delicate manner; besides which, the
hair is painted so well that there is none better to be seen. This picture was painted for
Messer Pietro Aretino, but Francesco gave it to Pope Clement, who came to Bologna at that time;
then, in some way of which I know nothing, it fell into the hands of Messer Dionigi Gianni,
and it now belongs to his son, Messer Bartolommeo, who has been so accommodating with it that
it has been copied fifty times, so much is it prized.

=. Bologna: Accademia, 116)

Brogi]

The same master painted for the Nuns of S. Margherita, in Bologna, a panel-picture containing
a Madonna, S. Margaret, S. Petronio, S. Jerome, and S. Michael, which is held in vast veneration,
as it deserves, since in the expressions of the heads and in every other part it is as fine
as all the other works of this painter. He made many drawings, likewise, and in particular
some for Girolamo del Lino, and some for Girolamo Fagiuoli, a goldsmith and engraver, who desired
them for engraving on copper; and these drawings are held to be full of grace. For Bonifazio
Gozzadino he painted his portrait from life, with one of his wife, which remained unfinished.
He also began a picture of Our Lady, which was afterwards sold in Bologna to Giorgio Vasari
of Arezzo, who has it in the new house built by himself at Arezzo, together with many other
noble pictures, works of sculpture, and ancient marbles.

When the Emperor Charles V was at Bologna to be crowned by Clement VII, Francesco, who went
several times to see him at table, but without drawing his portrait, made a likeness of that
Emperor in a very large picture in oils, wherein he painted Fame crowning him with laurel,
and a boy in the form of a little Hercules offering him a globe of the world, giving him, as
it were, the dominion over it. This work, when finished, he showed to Pope Clement, who was
so pleased with it that he sent it and Francesco together, accompanied by the Bishop of Vasona,
then Datary, to the Emperor; at which his Majesty, to whom it gave much satisfaction, hinted
that it should be left with him. But Francesco, being ill advised by an insincere or injudicious
friend, refused to leave it, saying that it was not finished; and so his Majesty did not have
it, and Francesco was not rewarded for it, as he certainly would have been. This picture, having
afterwards fallen into the hands of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici, was presented by him to the
Cardinal of Mantua; and it is now in the guardaroba of the Duke of that city, with many other
most noble and beautiful pictures.

After having been so many years out of his native place, as we have related, during which he
had gained much experience in art, without accumulating any store of riches, but only of friends,
Francesco, in order to satisfy his many friends and relatives, finally returned to Parma. Arriving
there, he was straightway commissioned to paint in fresco a vault of some size in the Church
of S. Maria della Steccata; but since in front of that vault there was a flat arch which followed
the curve of the vaulting, making a sort of façade, he set to work first on the arch, as being
the easier, and painted therein six very beautiful figures, two in colour and four in chiaroscuro.
Between one figure and another he made some most beautiful ornaments, surrounding certain rosettes
in relief, which he took it into his head to execute by himself in copper, taking extraordinary
pains over them.

At this same time he painted for the Chevalier Baiardo, a gentleman of Parma and his intimate
friend, a picture of a Cupid, who is fashioning a bow with his own hand, and at his feet are
seated two little boys, one of whom catches the other by the arm and laughingly urges him to
touch Cupid with his finger, but he will not touch him, and shows by his tears that he is afraid
of burning himself at the fire of Love. This picture, which is charming in colour, ingenious
in invention, and executed in that graceful manner of Francesco's that has been much studied
and imitated, as it still is, by craftsmen and by all who delight in art, is now in the study
of Signor Marc' Antonio Cavalca, heir to the Chevalier Baiardo, together with many drawings
of every kind by the hand of the same master, all most beautiful and highly finished, which
he has collected. Even such are the many drawings, also by the hand of Francesco, that are
in our book; and particularly that of the Beheading of S. Peter and S. Paul, of which, as has
been related, he published copper-plate engravings and woodcuts, while living in Bologna. For
the Church of S. Maria de' Servi he painted a panel-picture of Our Lady with the Child asleep
in her arms, and on one side some Angels, one of whom has in his arms an urn of crystal, wherein
there glitters a Cross, at which the Madonna gazes in contemplation. This work remained unfinished,
because he was not well contented with it; and yet it is much extolled, and a good example
of his manner, so full of grace and beauty.

Meanwhile Francesco began to abandon the work of the Steccata, or at least to carry it on so
slowly that it was evident that he was not in earnest. And this happened because he had begun
to study the problems of alchemy, and had quite deserted his profession of painting, thinking
that he would become rich quicker by congealing mercury. Wherefore, wearing out his brain,
but not in imagining beautiful inventions and executing them with brushes and colour-mixtures,
he wasted his whole time in handling charcoal, wood, glass vessels, and other suchlike trumperies,
which made him spend more in one day than he earned by a week's work at the Chapel of the Steccata.
Having no other means of livelihood, and being yet compelled to live, he was wasting himself
away little by little with those furnaces; and what was worse, the men of the Company of the
Steccata, perceiving that he had completely abandoned the work, and having perchance paid him
more than his due, as is often done, brought a suit against him. Thereupon, thinking it better
to withdraw, he fled by night with some friends to Casal Maggiore. And there, having dispersed
a little of the alchemy out of his head, he painted a panel-picture for the Church of S. Stefano,
of Our Lady in the sky, with S. John the Baptist and S. Stephen below. Afterwards he executed
a picture, the last that he ever painted, of the Roman Lucretia, which was a thing divine and
one of the best that were ever seen by his hand; but it has disappeared, however that may have
happened, so that no one knows where it is.

By his hand, also, is a picture of some nymphs, which is now in the house of Messer Niccolò
Bufolini at Città di Castello, and a child's cradle, which was painted for Signora Angiola
de' Rossi of Parma, wife of Signor Alessandro Vitelli, and is likewise at Città di Castello.

In the end, having his mind still set on his alchemy, like every other man who has once grown
crazed over it, and changing from a dainty and gentle person into an almost savage man with
long and unkempt beard and locks, a creature quite different from his other self, Francesco
went from bad to worse, became melancholy and eccentric, and was assailed by a grievous fever
and a cruel flux, which in a few days caused him to pass to a better life. And in this way
he found an end to the troubles of this world, which was never known to him save as a place
full of annoyances and cares. He wished to be laid to rest in the Church of the Servite Friars,
called La Fontana, one mile distant from Casal Maggiore; and he was buried naked, as he had
directed, with a cross of cypress upright on his breast. He finished the course of his life
on the 24th of August, in the year 1540, to the great loss of art on account of the singular
grace that his hands gave to the pictures that he painted.

Francesco delighted to play on the lute, and had a hand and a genius so well suited to it that
he was no less excellent in this than in painting. It is certain that if he had not worked
by caprice, and had laid aside the follies of the alchemists, he would have been without a
doubt one of the rarest and most excellent painters of our age. I do not deny that working
at moments of fever-heat, and when one feels inclined, may be the best plan. But I do blame
a man for working little or not at all, and for wasting all his time over cogitations, seeing
that the wish to arrive by trickery at a goal to which one cannot attain, often brings it about
that one loses what one knows in seeking after that which it is not given to us to know. If
Francesco, who had from nature a spirit of great vivacity, with a beautiful and graceful manner,
had persisted in working every day, little by little he would have made such proficience in
art, that, even as he gave a beautiful, gracious, and most charming expression to his heads,
so he would have surpassed his own self and the others in the solidity and perfect excellence
of his drawing.

He left behind him his cousin Girolamo Mazzuoli, who, with great credit to himself, always
imitated his manner, as is proved by the works by his hand that are in Parma. At Viadana, also,
whither he fled with Francesco on account of the war, he painted, young as he was, a very beautiful
Annunciation on a little panel for S. Francesco, a seat of the Frati de' Zoccoli; and he painted
another for S. Maria ne' Borghi. For the Conventual Friars of S. Francis at Parma he executed
the panel-picture of their high-altar, containing Joachim being driven from the Temple, with
many figures. And for S. Alessandro, a convent of nuns in that city, he painted a panel with
the Madonna in Heaven, the Infant Christ presenting a palm to S. Giustina, and some Angels
drawing back a piece of drapery, with S. Alexander the Pope and S. Benedict. For the Church
of the Carmelite Friars he painted the panel-picture of their high-altar, which is very beautiful,
and for S. Sepolcro another panel-picture of some size. In S. Giovanni Evangelista, a church
of nuns in the same city, are two panel-pictures by the hand of Girolamo, of no little beauty,
but not equal to the doors of the organ or to the picture of the high-altar, in which is a
most beautiful Transfiguration, executed with much diligence. The same master has painted a
perspective-view in fresco in the refectory of those nuns, with a picture in oils of the Last
Supper of Christ with the Apostles, and fresco-paintings in the Chapel of the High-Altar in
the Duomo. And for Madama Margherita of Austria, Duchess of Parma, he has made a portrait of
the Prince Don Alessandro, her son, in full armour, with his sword over a globe of the world,
and an armed figure of Parma kneeling before him.

In a chapel of the Steccata, at Parma, he has painted in fresco the Apostles receiving the
Holy Spirit, and on an arch similar to that which his cousin Francesco painted he has executed
six Sibyls, two in colour and four in chiaroscuro; while in a niche opposite to that arch he
has painted the Nativity of Christ, with the Shepherds adoring Him, which is a very beautiful
picture, although it was left not quite finished. For the high-altar of the Certosa, without
Parma, he has painted a panel-picture with the three Magi; a panel for S. Piero, an abbey of
Monks of S. Bernard, at Pavia; another for the Duomo of Mantua, at the commission of the Cardinal;
and yet another panel for S. Giovanni in the same city, containing a Christ in a glory of light,
surrounded by the Apostles, with S. John, of whom He appears to be saying, "Sic eum volo manere,"
etc.; while round this panel, in six large pictures, are the miracles of the same S. John the
Evangelist.

In the Church of the Frati Zoccolanti, on the left hand, there is a large panel-picture of
the Conversion of S. Paul, a very beautiful work, by the hand of the same man. And for the
high-altar of S. Benedetto in Pollirone, a place twelve miles distant from Mantua, he has executed
a panel-picture of Christ in the Manger being adored by the Shepherds, with Angels singing.
He has also painted--but I do not know exactly at what time--a most beautiful picture of five
Loves, one of whom is sleeping, and the others are despoiling him, one taking away his bow,
another his arrows, and the others his torch, which picture belongs to the Lord Duke Ottavio,
who holds it in great account by reason of the excellence of Girolamo. This master has in no
way fallen short of the standard of his cousin Francesco, being a fine painter, gentle and
courteous beyond belief; and since he is still alive, there are seen issuing from his brush
other works of rare beauty, which he has constantly in hand.

A close friend of the aforesaid Francesco Mazzuoli was Messer Vincenzio Caccianimici, a gentleman
of Bologna, who painted and strove to the best of his power to imitate the manner of Francesco.
This Vincenzio was a very good colourist, so that the works which he executed for his own pleasure,
or to present to his friends and various noblemen, are truly well worthy of praise; and such,
in particular, is a panel-picture in oils, containing the Beheading of S. John the Baptist,
which is in the chapel of his family in S. Petronio. This talented gentleman, by whose hand
are some very beautiful drawings in our book, died in the year 1542.

JACOPO PALMA AND LORENZO LOTTO

LIVES OF JACOPO PALMA

[PALMA VECCHIO]

AND LORENZO LOTTO

PAINTERS OF VENICE

So potent are mastery and excellence, even when seen in only one or two works executed to perfection
by a man in the art that he practises, that, no matter how small these may be, craftsmen and
judges of art are forced to extol them, and writers are compelled to celebrate them and to
give praise to the craftsman who has made them; even as we are now about to do for the Venetian
Palma. This master, although not very eminent, nor remarkable for perfection of painting, was
nevertheless so careful and diligent, and subjected himself so zealously to the labours of
art, that a certain proportion of his works, if not all, have something good in them, in that
they are close imitations of life and of the natural appearance of men.

Palma was much more remarkable for his patience in harmonizing and blending colours than for
boldness of design, and he handled colour with extraordinary grace and finish. This may be
seen in Venice from many pictures and portraits that he executed for various gentlemen; but
of these I shall say nothing more, since I propose to content myself with making mention of
some altar-pieces and of a head that I hold to be marvellous, or rather, divine. One of the
altar-pieces he painted for S. Antonio, near Castello, at Venice, and another for S. Elena,
near the Lido, where the Monks of Monte Oliveto have their monastery. In the latter, which
is on the high-altar of that church, he painted the Magi presenting their offerings to Christ,
with a good number of figures, among which are some heads truly worthy of praise, as also are
the draperies, executed with a beautiful flow of folds, which cover the figures. Palma also
painted a lifesize S. Barbara for the altar of the Bombardieri in the Church of S. Maria Formosa,
with two smaller figures at the sides, S. Sebastian and S. Anthony; and the S. Barbara is one
of the best figures that this painter ever executed. The same master also executed another
altar-piece, in which is a Madonna in the sky, with S. John below, for the Church of S. Moisè,
near the Piazza di S. Marco. In addition to this, Palma painted a most beautiful scene for
the hall wherein the men of the Scuola of S. Marco assemble, on the Piazza di SS. Giovanni
e Paolo, in emulation of those already executed by Giovanni Bellini, Giovanni Mansueti, and
other painters. In this scene is depicted a ship which is bringing the body of S. Mark to Venice;
and there may be seen counterfeited by Palma a terrible tempest on the sea, and some barques
tossed and shaken by the fury of the winds, all executed with much judgment and thoughtful
care. The same may be said of a group of figures in the air, and of the demons in various forms
who are blowing, after the manner of winds, against the barques, which, driven by oars, and
striving in various ways to break through the dangers of the towering waves, are like to sink.
In short, to tell the truth, this work is of such a kind, and so beautiful in invention and
in other respects, that it seems almost impossible that brushes and colours, employed by human
hands, however excellent, should be able to depict anything more true to reality or more natural;
for in it may be seen the fury of the winds, the strength and dexterity of the men, the movements
of the waves, the lightning-flashes of the heavens, the water broken by the oars, and the oars
bent by the waves and by the efforts of the rowers. Why say more? I, for my part, do not remember
to have ever seen a more terrible painting than this, which is executed in such a manner, and
with such care in the invention, the drawing, and the colouring, that the picture seems to
quiver, as if all that is painted therein were real. For this work Jacopo Palma deserves the
greatest praise, and the honour of being numbered among those who are masters of art and who
are able to express with facility in their pictures their most sublime conceptions. For many
painters, in difficult subjects of that kind, achieve in the first sketch of their work, as
though guided by a sort of fire of inspiration, something of the good and a certain measure
of boldness; but afterwards, in finishing it, the boldness vanishes, and nothing is left of
the good that the first fire produced. And this happens because very often, in finishing, they
consider the parts and not the whole of what they are executing, and thus, growing cold in
spirit, they come to lose their vein of boldness; whereas Jacopo stood ever firm in the same
intention and brought to perfection his first conception, for which he received vast praise
at that time, as he always will.

=. Venice: S. Maria Formosa)

Anderson]

But without a doubt, although the works of this master were many, and all much esteemed, that
one is better than all the others and truly extraordinary in which he made his own portrait
from life by looking at himself in a mirror, with some camel-skins about him, and certain tufts
of hair, and all so lifelike that nothing better could be imagined. For so much did the genius
of Palma effect in this particular work, that he made it quite miraculous and beautiful beyond
belief, as all men declare, the picture being seen almost every year at the Festival of the
Ascension. And, in truth, it well deserves to be celebrated, in point of draughtsmanship, colouring,
and mastery of art--in a word, on account of its absolute perfection--beyond any other work
whatsoever that had been executed by any Venetian painter up to that time, since, besides other
things, there may be seen in the eyes a roundness so perfect, that Leonardo da Vinci and Michelagnolo
Buonarroti would not have done it in any other way. But it is better to say nothing of the
grace, the dignity, and the other qualities that are to be seen in this portrait, because it
is not possible to say as much of its perfection as would exhaust its merits. If Fate had decreed
that Palma should die after this work, he would have carried off with him the glory of having
surpassed all those whom we celebrate as our rarest and most divine intellects; but the duration
of his life, keeping him at work, brought it about that, not maintaining the high beginning
that he had made, he came to deteriorate as much as most men had thought him destined to improve.
Finally, content that one or two supreme works should have cleared him of some of the censure
that the others had brought upon him, he died in Venice at the age of forty-eight.

A friend and companion of Palma was Lorenzo Lotto, a painter of Venice, who, after imitating
for some time the manner of the Bellini, attached himself to that of Giorgione, as is shown
by many pictures and portraits which are in the houses of gentlemen in Venice. In the house
of Andrea Odoni there is a portrait of him, which is very beautiful, by the hand of Lorenzo.
And in the house of Tommaso da Empoli, a Florentine, there is a picture of the Nativity of
Christ, painted as an effect of night, which is one of great beauty, particularly because the
splendour of Christ is seen to illuminate the picture in a marvellous manner; and there is
the Madonna kneeling, with a portrait of Messer Marco Loredano in a full-length figure that
is adoring Christ. For the Carmelite Friars the same master painted an altar-piece showing
S. Nicholas in his episcopal robes, poised in the air, with three Angels; below him are S.
Lucia and S. John, on high some clouds, and beneath these a most beautiful landscape, with
many little figures and animals in various places. On one side is S. George on horseback, slaying
the Dragon, and at a little distance the Maiden, with a city not far away, and an arm of the
sea. For the Chapel of S. Antonino, Archbishop of Florence, in SS. Giovanni e Paolo, Lorenzo
executed an altar-piece containing the first-named Saint seated with two priests in attendance,
and many people below.

While this painter was still young, imitating partly the manner of the Bellini and partly that
of Giorgione, he painted an altar-piece, divided into six pictures, for the high-altar of S.
Domenico at Recanati. In the central picture is the Madonna with the Child in her arms, giving
the habit, by the hands of an Angel, to S. Dominic, who is kneeling before the Virgin; and
in this picture are also two little boys, one playing on a lute and the other on a rebeck.
In the second picture are the Popes S. Gregory and S. Urban; and in the third is S. Thomas
Aquinas, with another saint, who was Bishop of Recanati. Above these are the three other pictures;
and in the centre, above the Madonna, is a Dead Christ, supported by an Angel, with His Mother
kissing His arm, and S. Magdalene. Over the picture of S. Gregory are S. Mary Magdalene and
S. Vincent; and in the third--namely, above the S. Thomas Aquinas--are S. Gismondo and S. Catharine
of Siena. In the predella, which is a rare work painted with little figures, there is in the
centre the scene of S. Maria di Loreto being carried by the Angels from the regions of Sclavonia
to the place where it now stands. Of the two scenes that are on either side of this, one shows
S. Dominic preaching, the little figures being the most graceful in the world, and the other
Pope Honorius confirming the Rule of S. Dominic. In the middle of this church is a figure of
S. Vincent, the Friar, executed in fresco by the hand of the same master. And in the Church
of S. Maria di Castelnuovo there is an altar-piece in oils of the Transfiguration of Christ,
with three scenes painted with little figures in the predella--Christ leading the Apostles
to Mount Tabor, His Prayer in the Garden, and His Ascension into Heaven.

After these works Lorenzo went to Ancona, at the very time when Mariano da Perugia had finished
a panel-picture, with a large ornamental frame, for the high-altar of S. Agostino. This did
not give much satisfaction; and Lorenzo was commissioned to paint a picture, which is placed
in the middle of the same church, of Our Lady with the Child in her lap, and two figures of
Angels in the air, in foreshortening, crowning the Virgin.

Finally, being now old, and having almost lost his voice, Lorenzo made his way, after executing
some other works of no great importance at Ancona, to the Madonna of Loreto, where he had already
painted an altar-piece in oils, which is in a chapel at the right hand of the entrance into
the church. There, having resolved to finish his life in the service of the Madonna, and to
make that holy house his habitation, he set his hand to executing scenes with figures one braccio
or less in height round the choir, over the seats of the priests. In one scene he painted the
Birth of Jesus Christ, and in another the Magi adoring Him. Next came the Presentation to Simeon,
and after that the Baptism of Christ by John in the Jordan. There was also the Woman taken
in Adultery being led before Christ, and all these were executed with much grace. Two other
scenes, likewise, did he paint there, with an abundance of figures; one of David causing a
sacrifice to be offered, and in the other was the Archangel Michael in combat with Lucifer,
after having driven him out of Heaven.

These works finished, no long time had passed when, even as he had lived like a good citizen
and a true Christian, so he died, rendering up his soul to God his Master. These last years
of his life he found full of happiness and serenity of mind, and, what is more, we cannot but
believe that they gave him the earnest of the blessings of eternal life; which might not have
happened to him if at the end of his life he had been wrapped up too closely in the things
of this world, which, pressing too heavily on those who put their whole trust in them, prevent
them from ever raising their minds to the true riches and the supreme blessedness and felicity
of the other life.

There also flourished in Romagna at this time the excellent painter Rondinello, of whom we
made some slight mention in the Life of Giovanni Bellini, whose disciple he was, assisting
him much in his works. This Rondinello, after leaving Giovanni Bellini, laboured at his art
to such purpose, that, being very diligent, he executed many works worthy of praise; of which
we have witness in the panel-picture of the high-altar in the Duomo at Forlì, showing Christ
giving the Communion to the Apostles, which he painted there with his own hand, executing it
very well. In the lunette above this picture he painted a Dead Christ, and in the predella
some scenes with little figures, finished with great diligence, representing the actions of
S. Helena, the mother of the Emperor Constantine, in the finding of the Cross. He also painted
a single figure of S. Sebastian, which is very beautiful, in a picture in the same church.
For the altar of S. Maria Maddalena, in the Duomo of Ravenna, he painted a panel-picture in
oils containing the single figure of that Saint; and below this, in a predella, he executed
three scenes with very graceful little figures. In one is Christ appearing to Mary Magdalene
in the form of a gardener, in another S. Peter leaving the ship and walking over the water
towards Christ, and between them the Baptism of Jesus Christ; and all are very beautiful. For
S. Giovanni Evangelista, in the same city, he painted two panel-pictures, one with that Saint
consecrating the church, and in the other three martyrs, S. Cantius, S. Cantianus, and S. Cantianilla,
figures of great beauty. In S. Apollinare, also in that city, are two pictures, highly extolled,
each with a single figure, S. John the Baptist and S. Sebastian. And in the Church of the Spirito
Santo there is a panel, likewise by his hand, containing the Madonna placed between the Virgin
Martyr S. Catharine and S. Jerome. For S. Francesco, likewise, he painted two panel-pictures,
one of S. Catharine and S. Francis, and in the other Our Lady with S. James the Apostle, S.
Francis, and many figures. For S. Domenico, in like manner, he executed two other panels, one
of which, containing the Madonna and many figures, is on the left hand of the high-altar, and
the other, a work of no little beauty, is on a wall of the church. And for the Church of S.
Niccolò, a convent of Friars of S. Augustine, he painted another panel with S. Laurence and
S. Francis. So much was he commended for all these works, that during his lifetime he was held
in great account, not only in Ravenna but throughout all Romagna. Rondinello lived to the age
of sixty, and was buried in S. Francesco at Ravenna.

=. Ravenna: Accademia)

Alinari]

This master left behind him Francesco da Cotignola, a painter likewise held in estimation in
that city, who painted many works; in particular, for the high-altar of the Church of the Abbey
of Classi in Ravenna, a panel-picture of some size representing the Raising of Lazarus, with
many figures. There, opposite to that work, in the year 1548, Giorgio Vasari executed for Don
Romualdo da Verona, Abbot of that place, another panel-picture containing the Deposition of
Christ from the Cross, with a large number of figures. Francesco also painted a panel-picture
of the Nativity of Christ, which is of great size, for S. Niccolò, and likewise two panels,
with various figures, for S. Sebastiano. For the Hospital of S. Catarina he painted a panel-picture
with Our Lady, S. Catharine, and many other figures; and for S. Agata he painted a panel with
Christ Crucified, the Madonna at the foot of the Cross, and a good number of other figures,
for which he won praise. And for S. Apollinare, in the same city, he executed three panel-pictures;
one for the high-altar, containing the Madonna, S. John the Baptist, and S. Apollinare, with
S. Jerome and other saints; another likewise of the Madonna, with S. Peter and S. Catharine;
and in the third and last Jesus Christ bearing His Cross, but this he was not able to finish,
being overtaken by death.

Francesco was a very pleasing colourist, but not so good a draughtsman as Rondinello; yet he
was held in no small estimation by the people of Ravenna. He chose to be buried after his death
in S. Apollinare, for which he had painted the said figures, being content that his remains,
when he was dead, should lie at rest in the place for which he had laboured when alive.

INDEX OF NAMES

OF THE CRAFTSMEN MENTIONED IN VOLUME V

    Agnolo, Andrea d' (Andrea del Sarto), Life, 85-120. 164, 194,
      217-221, 231

    Agnolo, Baccio d' (Baccio Baglioni), 91, 98, 102

    Agnolo Bronzino, 127, 163

    Agnolo di Cristofano, 223

    Agnolo di Donnino, 38

    Agostino Busto (Il Bambaja), 42, 43

    Agostino Viniziano, 97

    Aimo, Domenico (Bologna), 28

    Albertinelli, Mariotto, 86, 212, 217

    Albertino, Francesco d' (Francesco Ubertini, or Il Bacchiacca), 222

    Alberto, Antonio, 13

    Albrecht Dürer, 96

    Alessandro Allori, 127

    Alessandro Vittoria, 247

    Alesso Baldovinetti, 88, 92

    Alfonso Lombardi, Life, 131-136. 210

    Allori, Alessandro, 127

    Amalteo, Pomponio, 154, 155

    Amico Aspertini, Life, 209-211. 221, 228

    Andrea Ferrucci (Andrea da Fiesole), Life, 3-8. 43, 88

    Andrea Sguazzella, 100, 118

    Andrea Verrocchio, 49, 50, 55

    Anguisciuola, Sofonisba, 127, 128

    Antonio Alberto, 13

    Antonio da Carrara, 8

    Antonio da San Gallo (the elder), 97

    Antonio da San Gallo (the younger), 29, 43, 58, 72

    Antonio da Trento (Antonio Fantuzzi), 249, 250

    Antonio del Rozzo (Antonio del Tozzo), 73

    Antonio di Donnino Mazzieri, 223

    Antonio di Giorgio Marchissi, 4

    Antonio di Giovanni (Solosmeo), 118

    Antonio Fantuzzi (Antonio da Trento), 249, 250

    Antonio Floriani, 148, 149

    Antonio Mini, 165

    Antonio Pollaiuolo, 21

    Apelles, 14

    Aretusi, Pellegrino degli (Pellegrino da Modena, or Pellegrino de'
      Munari), Life, 80-81. 176

    Aristotele (Sebastiano) da San Gallo, 97

    Aspertini, Amico, Life, 209-211. 125, 207-211

    Bacchiacca, Il (Francesco Ubertini, or Francesco d' Albertino), 222

    Baccio Baglioni (Baccio d' Agnolo), 91, 98, 102

    Baccio Bandinelli, 5, 27, 36, 57, 96-98, 135

    Baccio d' Agnolo (Baccio Baglioni), 91, 98, 102

    Baccio da Montelupo, Life, 41-45. 43, 88

    Cosimo, Piero di, 86

    Cosimo Rosselli, 88, 229

    Cosimo, Silvio, 6-8

    Cotignola, Francesco da (Francesco de' Zaganelli), Life, 265-266

    Cotignola, Girolamo da (Girolamo Marchesi), Life, 211-212. 207

    Credi, Lorenzo di, Life, 49-52. 159

    Credi, Maestro, 49

    Crescione, Giovan Filippo, 238

    Cristofano, Agnolo di, 223

    Cronaca, Il (Simone del Pollaiuolo), 22

    Cuticello (Giovanni Antonio Licinio, or Pordenone), Life, 145-155

    Danese da Carrara (Danese Cattaneo), 135

    Della Robbia family, 22

    Domenico Aimo (Bologna), 28

    Domenico Beccafumi (Domenico di Pace), 74, 153, 163

    Domenico Conti, 115, 119

    Domenico dal Monte Sansovino, 30

    Domenico del Barbieri, 201

    Domenico di Pace (Domenico Beccafumi), 74, 153, 163

    Domenico di Paris, 195

    Domenico di Polo, 135

    Domenico Puligo, 109

    Donato (Donatello), 23

    Donnino, Agnolo di, 38

    Dossi, Battista, Life, 139-141

    Dossi, Dosso, Life, 139-141

    Dürer, Albrecht, 96

    Fagiuoli, Girolamo, 250

    Fantuzzi, Antonio (Antonio da Trento), 249, 250

    Fattore, Il (Giovan Francesco Penni), Life, 77-80. 201

    Feltrini, Andrea di Cosimo, Life, 229-233. 221, 228

    Feltro, Morto da, Life, 227-229. 230

    Ferrara, Benedetto da (Benedetto Coda), 211, 212

    Ferrara, Girolamo da (Girolamo da Carpi), 154

    Ferrari, Gaudenzio, 81

    Ferrucci, Andrea (Andrea da Fiesole), Life, 3-8. 11

    Ferrucci, Francesco di Simone, 3

    Fiesole, Andrea da (Andrea Ferrucci), Life, 3-8. 86-89, 91, 93, 101, 103,
      104, 217-223, 231, 232

    Francucci, Innocenzio (Innocenzio da Imola), Life, 212-213. 207, 209

    Gaudenzio Ferrari, 81

    Genga, Girolamo, 15, 16, 140

    Gensio Liberale, 149

    Ghirlandajo, Michele di Ridolfo, 165

    Ghirlandajo, Ridolfo, 220, 231

    Gian Barile (of Florence), 86

    Gian Jacopo da Castrocaro, 50

    Giannuzzi, Giulio Pippi de' (Giulio Romano), 55, 77-79, 108, 109, 195

    Giorgio Vasari. See Vasari (Giorgio)

    Giorgione da Castelfranco, 149, 228, 262

    Giotto, 21

    Giovan Battista da Bagnacavallo, 201

    Giovan Battista de' Rossi (Il Rosso), Life, 189-203. 97

    Giovan Battista Grassi, 148

    Giovan Battista Peloro, 73

    Giovan Filippo Crescione, 238

    Giovan Francesco Bembo (Giovan Francesco Vetraio), 180

    Giovan Francesco Penni (Il Fattore), Life, 77-80. 201

    Giovan Francesco Vetraio (Giovan Francesco Bembo), 180

    Giovanni, Antonio di (Solosmeo), 118

    Giovanni Antonio Bazzi (Sodoma), 73

    Giovanni Antonio Lappoli, 196-198

    Giovanni Antonio Licinio (Cuticello, or Pordenone), Life, 145-155

    Giovanni Antonio Sogliani, Life, 159-166. 207

    Girolamo da Ferrara (Girolamo da Carpi), 154

    Girolamo da Treviso (Girolamo Trevigi), Life, 169-171. 68

    Girolamo della Robbia, 90

    Girolamo Fagiuoli, 250

    Girolamo Genga, 15, 16, 140

    Girolamo Lombardo, 24, 28-30

    Girolamo Marchesi (Girolamo da Cotignola), Life, 211-212. 207

    Girolamo Mazzuoli, 244, 245, 254, 255

    Girolamo Santa Croce, Life, 137-138

    Girolamo Trevigi (Girolamo da Treviso), Life, 169-171. 68

    Giuliano da San Gallo, 97

    Giuliano del Tasso, 97

    Giuliano (di Niccolò Morelli), Maestro, 73

    Giulio Romano (Giulio Pippi de' Giannuzzi), 55, 77-79, 108, 109, 195

    Granacci, Francesco (Il Granaccio), 97, 98, 231

    Grassi, Giovan Battista, 148

    Guazzetto, Il (Lorenzo Naldino), 201

    Il Bacchiacca (Francesco Ubertini, or Francesco d' Albertino), 222

    Il Bambaja (Agostino Busto), 42, 43

    Il Cicilia, 8

    Il Cronaca (Simone del Pollaiuolo), 22

    Il Fattore (Giovan Francesco Penni), Life, 77-80. 201

    Il Granaccio (Francesco Granacci), 97, 98, 231

    Il Guazzetto (Lorenzo Naldino), 201

    Il Pistoia (Leonardo), 79, 80

    Il Rosso (Giovan Battista de' Rossi), Life, 189-203. 97

    Imola, Innocenzio da (Innocenzio Francucci), Life, 212-213. 207, 209

    Impiccati, Andrea degli (Andrea dal Castagno), 116

    Innocenzio da Imola (Innocenzio Francucci), Life, 212-213. 207, 209

    Jacomo Melighino, 72, 73

    Jacone (Jacopo), 119

    Jacopo da Pontormo (Jacopo Carrucci), 93, 98, 104, 118, 135, 190,
      221, 222, 231, 232

    Jacopo del Conte, 119

    Jacopo di Sandro, 97

    Jacopo Palma (Palma Vecchio), Life, 259-261

    Jacopo Sansovino, 5, 31, 35, 36, 80, 88, 92, 93, 97, 98, 180, 218,
      231, 247

    Lappoli, Giovanni Antonio, 196-198

    Lattanzio Pagani, 212

    Leonardo (Il Pistoia), 79, 80

    Leonardo Castellani, 238

    Leonardo da Vinci, 49, 50, 86, 228, 261

    Leonardo del Tasso, 31

    Leonardo the Fleming, 201

    Liberale, Gensio, 149

    Licinio, Giovanni Antonio (Cuticello, or Pordenone), Life, 145-155

    Lippi, Filippo (Filippino), 87

    Lombardi, Alfonso, Life, 131-136. 210

    Lombardo, Girolamo, 24, 28-30

    Lorenzetto (Lorenzo) Lotti, Life, 55-58

    Lorenzo di Bicci, 5

    Lorenzo di Credi, Life, 49-52. 159

    Lorenzo Lotto, Life, 261-264

    Lorenzo Naldino (Il Guazzetto), 201

    Lorenzo of Picardy, 201

    Lotti, Lorenzetto (Lorenzo), Life, 55-58

    Lotto, Lorenzo, Life, 261-264

    Luca della Robbia (the younger), 90

    Luca Monverde, 147

    Luca Penni, 79, 201

    Lucrezia, Madonna, 127

    Luini, Bernardino (Bernardino del Lupino), 60

    Lunetti, Stefano (Stefano of Florence), 51

    Lunetti, Tommaso di Stefano, 51, 52, 164, 231

    Lupino, Bernardino del (Bernardino Luini), 60

    Madonna Lucrezia, 127

    Madonna Properzia de' Rossi, Life, 123-128

    Maestro Credi, 49

    Maestro Giuliano (di Niccolò Morelli), 73

    Maiano, Benedetto da, 5

    Maini (Marini), Michele, 3, 4

    Mangone, Giovanni, 5

    Mansueti, Giovanni, 260

    Marchesi, Girolamo (Girolamo da Cotignola), Life, 211-212. 207

    Marchissi, Antonio di Giorgio, 4

    Marco Calavrese (Marco Cardisco), Life, 237-239

    Mariano da Perugia, 263

    Marini (Maini), Michele, 3, 4

    Mariotto Albertinelli, 86, 212, 217

    Mariotto di Francesco, 231-233

    Martini, Giovanni (Giovanni da Udine), 145-147

    Martino da Udine (Pellegrino da San Daniele, or Martino di
      Battista), 145-150

    Maso Boscoli, 6

    Matrice, Cola dalla (Niccola Filotesio), 238, 239

    Maturino, Life, 175-185

    Mazzieri, Antonio di Donnino, 223

    Mazzuoli, Francesco (Parmigiano), Life, 243-256

    Mazzuoli, Girolamo, 244, 245, 254, 255

    Melighino, Jacomo, 72, 73

    Michelagnolo Buonarroti, 5, 6, 23, 43-45, 58, 86, 111, 117, 128,
      135, 165, 190, 194, 228, 245, 247, 261

    Michelagnolo da Siena, Life, 136-137. 69

    Michele di Ridolfo Ghirlandajo, 165

    Michele Maini (Marini), 3, 4

    Milano, Cesare da (Cesare da Sesto), 65, 141

    Mini, Antonio, 165

    Miniati, Bartolommeo, 201

    Mirozzo (Melozzo), Francesco di, 140

    Modena, Pellegrino da (Pellegrino degli Aretusi, or Pellegrino de'
      Munari), Life, 80-81. 43, 88

    Monte Sansovino, Domenico dal, 30

    Montelupo, Baccio da, Life, 41-45. 97

    Montelupo, Raffaello da, Life, 41-45. 27, 119

    Monverde, Luca, 147

    Morelli, Maestro Giuliano di Niccolò, 73

    Morto da Feltro, Life, 227-229. 230

    Mosca, Simone, 44

    Munari, Pellegrino de' (Pellegrino da Modena, or Pellegrino degli
      Aretusi), Life, 80-81. 176

    Pellegrino da San Daniele (Martino da Udine, or Martino di
      Battista), 145-150

    Peloro, Giovan Battista, 73

    Penni, Giovan Francesco (Il Fattore), Life, 77-80. 201

    Penni, Luca, 79, 201

    Perino del Vaga (Perino Buonaccorsi), 7, 77-79, 153, 162

    Perugia, Mariano da, 263

    Perugino, Pietro (Pietro Vannucci), 49, 50, 87, 230

    Peruzzi, Baldassarre, Life, 63-74. 266

    Rosselli, Bernardo (Bernardo del Buda), 116

    Rosselli, Cosimo, 88, 229

    Rossi, Francesco de' (Francesco Salviati), 119

    Rossi, Giovan Battista de' (Il Rosso), Life, 189-203. 97

    Rossi, Madonna Properzia de', Life, 123-128

    Rosso, Il (Giovan Battista de' Rossi), Life, 189-203. 69

    Silvio Cosini, 6-8

    Simone Cioli, 30

    Simone del Pollaiuolo (Il Cronaca), 22

    Simone Mosca, 44

    Simone of Paris, 201

    Sodoma (Giovanni Antonio Bazzi), 73

    Sofonisba Anguisciuola, 127, 128

    Soggi, Niccolò, 109, 110, 196

    Sogliani, Giovanni Antonio, Life, 159-166. 51

    Solosmeo (Antonio di Giovanni), 118

    Spadari, Benedetto, 195, 196

    Stagio da Pietrasanta, 162

    Stefano Lunetti (Stefano of Florence), 51

    Tamagni, Vincenzio (Vincenzio da San Gimignano), Life, 11-17

    Tasso, Giuliano del, 97

    Tasso, Leonardo del, 31

    Timoteo da Urbino (Timoteo della Vite), Life, 11-17

    Titi dal Borgo, Santi, 160

    Tiziano da Cadore (Tiziano Vecelli), 66, 133, 134, 152, 153

    Tommaso di Stefano Lunetti, 51, 52, 164, 231

    Tozzo, Antonio del (Antonio del Rozzo), 73

    Trento, Antonio da (Antonio Fantuzzi), 249, 250

    Treviso, Girolamo da (Girolamo Trevigi), Life, 169-171.