Dear Sir Walter Raleigh,--During the past week I have been studying afresh the published records
of the diplomatic transactions of last July, and on my return to Oxford I find your kind letter,
and therefore take the liberty of addressing this to yourself. My new study has forced upon
me the conviction that in my letter to a friend residing in America, which, against my wishes
and injunctions, was published there, apart from the deplorable tone of my allusions to Sir
E. Grey and Mr. Asquith, I was quite wrong in imputing the motives which I did, especially
to the former. It does appear to me, as I read these dispatches over again, that Sir Edward
throughout had in view the peace of Europe, and that I ought to have set down to the awful
contingencies with which he was faced many passages which I was guilty of grossly misinterpreting.
I was too ready to forget that in the years of the Balkan wars it was after all he alone who,
by his patient and conciliatory treatment of the situation, held in check the antagonistic
forces which last July he was ultimately unable to control. I was too ready to ascribe to want
of good will on his part results which harsh necessity entailed on him; and I deeply regret
that I mistook his aims and, in my endeavour to be fair to the enemy, was grossly unjust to
him. I am only anxious to undo, if it be still possible, some of the harm which my hasty judgment
and intemperate language has caused.

If you think it would do any good to print this, I beg you to send it to The Times and Morning
Post, whose remarks led me to go back once more to the documentary sources. Second thoughts
are best, and if I had only kept my American letter till the morning for revision, I should
first have struck out all the vituperation and all the imputation of motives, and have ended
by never sending it at all.

I remain yours very sincerely,

FRED. C. CONYBEARE.

The Case of Muenter

Attack on Mr. Morgan's Life and the Setting of Fire-Bombs on Ships

That a group of bankers in New York City, headed by J.P. Morgan & Company, was negotiating
with the British Treasury authorities for the flotation in the United States of $100,000,000
of the new British war loan was announced in the newspapers on July 3, 1915. Mr. Morgan's firm
had handled contracts to furnish war munitions to the Allies, amounting to $500,000,000, and
this had been widely published. On the morning of July 3 J.P. Morgan was attacked and wounded
with a revolver at his country estate on East Island, near Glen Cove, Long Island, by Erich
Muenter, alias Frank Holt. Holt was an Instructor in German at Cornell University; Muenter
was a Harvard instructor for whom the police had been seeking since the spring of 1906 on a
charge of murdering his wife. After his suicide in jail on July 6, Professor C.N. Gould, of
the University of Chicago, and Professor Hugo Muensterberg, of Harvard, among others, identified
Holt and Muenter as the same person.

Muenter's insane attack on Mr. Morgan, because he had failed to "use his influence to prevent
the exportation of arms and ammunition," followed the wrecking of the United States Senate
reception room in the Capitol at Washington on July 2 by the explosion of an infernal machine
set by Muenter. On July 6 a trunk owned by Muenter containing twenty pounds of explosives was
found in New York. During his stay in jail Muenter wrote to his wife that two ships were to
sink at sea on July 7, if his calculations went right, naming the Philadelphia and the Saxonia.
The ships were duly warned by wireless, but no bombs were found aboard them, nor were any confederates
of Muenter discovered. On July 7 the steamship Minnehaha reported by wireless a "fire caused
by explosion" under control.

Incendiary bombs had been discovered aboard four freight steamships sailing from New York for
Havre in April and May. On July 12 Secretary of the Navy Daniels, acting on advices received
from The New Orleans Picayune, directed the naval radio station at Arlington, Virginia, to
flash a warning to all ships at sea to be on the lookout for bombs supposed to have been placed
on board certain vessels, and warning particularly the steamers Howth Head and Baron Napier
that information had come to the Navy Department that explosive bombs might have been placed
on those two vessels. All ships were requested to try to communicate with the Howth Head and
the Baron Napier. On July 11 a written threat to assassinate J.P. Morgan, Sir Cecil Spring-Rice,
the British Ambassador, and destroy by bombs British ships clearing from American ports, thus
carrying out some of the plans of Erich Muenter, was reported in a letter signed "Pearce,"
who styled himself a partner and intimate associate of Muenter. This letter was received by
The New Orleans Times-Picayune.

Two more "Pearce" letters were received on July 13 by an afternoon newspaper of New Orleans
and by its Chief of Police, saying that Erich Muenter had taught the writer the use of explosives.
On the same day the Samland of the Atlantic Transport Line and the Strathlay, chartered by
the Fabre Line, survived attempts to destroy them by fire bombs, and on July 15 "Pearce" threatened
in another letter to destroy the Rochambeau. A bomb thought to be intended for the Orduna in
a car loaded with coal consigned to the Cunard Line was discovered at Morrisville, N.J., on
July 18. The Washington Times, the Philadelphia Public-Ledger and the Brooklyn Eagle received
on July 16, 19 and 20, respectively, letters from "Pearce" declaring that henceforth persons
leaving America on British ships would do so at their peril, and harking back to the German
Embassy's warning before the Lusitania was torpedoed. On July 26 an SOS call was received at
the Fire Island station, at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, and by the coast guard ship Mohawk, but
the distressed ship's appeal for help was broken off before her name or position could be given.
"Pearce's" letter to The Brooklyn Eagle reads as follows:

"Sir: You people of Brooklyn have already had one experience with the work of our men, and
so, perhaps, it will be unnecessary to say more than a few words of warning. The Kirkoswald
affair is still fresh in your memory; therefore, we will not waste words discussing this matter.
The purpose of this communication is to warn the American citizens living in your vicinity
to keep clear of British vessels sailing from Brooklyn, New York, New Orleans, Savannah, Newport
News, and Montreal. Our men are now operating from each of these ports, and Americans will
do well to heed this warning ere it is too late.

"The Imperial German Government derives no satisfaction or profit from the killing of neutral
Americans, and we are instructed to go to great lengths in order to give timely warnings to
all Americans who contemplate voyages to Europe within the next two months. The explosive operations
will supplement the submarine operations, which have proved inadequate to prevent the enemy
from importing munitions from America.

"We earnestly advise Americans who find it imperative to travel to Europe to sail only on vessels
flying the American flag. Such steamers as those of the American Line, for instance, will be
perfectly immune from either submarine or explosive operation. The Imperial German Government
will, if requested, offer no objection to the American Government pressing into service the
interned German vessels if the American vessels are found to be unable to accommodate the traffic
to Europe. By publishing this warning American lives may be spared.

"The circumstances under which this communication is written make it impossible for us to affix
our proper signatures; therefore, we trust that you will accept for a signature our pen name.

"PEARCE."

Devotion to the Kaiser

The annual general conference of the clergy of the North German Lutheran Churches met in Berlin
during the week of June 24, 1915, and sent the following "telegram of devotion" to the Kaiser:

"Your Imperial and Royal Majesty will most graciously deign to accept this most humble blessing
and the assurance of true German devotion from the preachers of the North German Evangelical
Conference assembled in conference. We raise our eyes with respect and love to your Majesty,
the powerful and purposeful leader of the German nation. We are filled with the consciousness
that the sources of German power are unconquerable, not only because of the complete union
of the German princes and peoples, but because of the unexampled spirit of sacrifice which
animates rich and poor alike, and, before all else, because we are a praying nation.

"However great the pressure of our enemies may be on our victorious armies, the army of those
who are praying at home will wrestle all the more earnestly in prayer, praying before God's
throne for victory."

Scientists and the Military

Movement in Great Britain and the United States to Consult Civilian Experts

Early in June, H.G. Wells, the "novelist of science," wrote to the London Times a letter urging
the necessity of mobilizing Great Britain's scientific and inventive forces for the war. On
June 22 The London Times printed a second letter from Mr. Wells proposing the establishment
of a bureau for inventors--"a small department collateral rather than subordinate to the War
Office and Admiralty." At the annual meeting in London of the British Science Guild on July
1, eminent scientists and chemists, Sir William Mather, Sir William Ramsay, Sir Boverton Redwood,
Sir Philip Magnus, Professor Petry, Sir Ronald Ross, Sir Archibald Geikie and Sir Alexander
Pedler, condemned the attitude adopted by the British Government toward science in connection
with the war, and demanded that in future greater use should be made of the opportunities afforded
by scientific knowledge in the prosecution of the struggle. A letter conveying this opinion
was sent by these scientists to Prime Minister Asquith. On July 18 it was announced in London
that a number of eminent scientists and inventors had been appointed to assist Admiral Lord
Fisher, as Chairman of the Invention Board, to co-ordinate and encourage scientific work in
relation to the requirements of the British navy. Lord Bryce was said to be instrumental in
this undertaking.

In the United States a similar movement was in progress. THE NEW YORK TIMES published on May
30 an interview with Thomas A. Edison declaring that in its preparations for war the American
Government should "maintain a great research laboratory, jointly under military and naval and
civilian control." In this could be developed the "continually increasing possibilities of
great guns, the minutiae of new explosives, all the technique of military and naval progression,
without any vast expense." If any foreign power should seriously consider an attack upon this
country "a hundred men of special training quickly would be at work here upon new means of
repelling the invaders," Mr. Edison said; "I would be at it, myself."

Secretary of the Navy Daniels thereupon wrote to Mr. Edison a congratulatory letter, saying:
"I think your ideas and mine coincide if an interview with you recently published in THE NEW
YORK TIMES was correct." He added:

     One of the imperative needs of the navy, in my judgment, is
     machinery and facilities for utilizing the natural inventive
     genius of Americans to meet the new conditions of warfare as
     shown abroad, and it is my intention if a practical way can
     be worked out, as I think it can be, to establish at the
     earliest moment a department of invention and development,
     to which all ideas and suggestions, either from the service
     or from civilian inventors, can be referred for
     determination as to whether they contain practical
     suggestions for us to take up and perfect....

     What I want to ask is if you would be willing, as a service
     to your country, to act as an adviser to this board, to take
     such things as seem to you to be of value, but which we are
     not, at present, equipped to investigate, and to use your
     own magnificent facilities in such investigation if you feel
     it worth while.

The consequence was Mr. Edison's appointment to head an advisory board of civilian inventors
and engineers for a Bureau of Invention and Development created in the Navy Department. After
a conference with Mr. Edison Secretary Daniels on July 19 wrote to eight leading scientific
societies asking each of them to select two members to serve on the Naval Advisory Committee,
and as a first fruit of the movement it was announced on July 23 that at the request of Mr.
Edison, the American Society of Aeronautic Engineers had been formed with Henry A. Wise Wood
as President and Orville Wright, Glenn H. Curtiss, W. Starling Burgess, Peter Cooper Hewitt,
Elmer A. Sperry and John Hays Hammond, Jr., as Vice-presidents.

Hudson Maxim on Explosives

THE NEW YORK TIMES on July 11 printed an interview with Hudson Maxim, the inventor of explosives,
in which Mr. Maxim said:

Modern war is a warfare of explosives. The highly developed methods of defense, designed especially
against explosives, are practically proof against everything but them.

Attacking forces must disemburrow the defending forces; they must be blasted out of the ground.
This warfare amounts, literally, to that. It is as if boys hunted woodchucks with dynamite.

Each of the hard-won successes of the war has been a victory for well-placed high explosives.
In the last fight around Przemysl the Germans fired in one hour, from field guns, 200,000 shells
carrying high explosives.

Reports indicate that the result of this was literally unprecedented. It actually changed the
topography of the country. Valleys were dug and hills razed.

Recently Lloyd George used an expressive phrase. "The trenches," he said, "were sprayed with
exploding shells."

Such "spraying" only could be possible through the use of an incredible number of explosive
projectiles.

America's plants for the production of explosives, cartridges, shrapnel, and rifles have so
increased their capacity that we have today ten times the capacity which we had at the time
of the war's outbreak, and, for certain things, the increase has been even greater. By the
middle of next winter our capacity will be thirtyfold what it was at the beginning of the war.

Thus the fighting among other nations has done much toward preparing us for war, and, therefore,
much toward insuring international peace for us, but even our tremendous contribution to the
supplies of the Allies amounts to only about 2 per cent. of what they are consuming, and the
war has not been running a year.

This indicates that if we should suddenly be involved in warfare with a great power we should
be whipped unless we devised means for the increase of our productivity of war supplies, especially
explosives and all ammunition materials, by a hundredfold.

The consumption of war material has been unprecedented, and this indicates what may be expected
in future wars. In trench fighting, for example, it is estimated that four times as many rifles
as men are required. The fighting man must have two because one quickly gets hot and becomes
unusable; he must have a third so that he may still have two if one is hit by the return fire
or otherwise rendered inefficient; he must have the fourth so that at least one of his weapons
may be in the arms hospital undergoing repairs if necessary, and be ready for him in case one
of his others is demolished. This development of modern warfare means that a million modern
soldiers need four million modern rifles.

This indicates the enormous necessities which would devolve upon this country in case we were
forced into a war. During the past week I have received a cable from an old friend in England
who has been selling war munitions to the Allies. He asked me how quickly I could get a million
rifles made in the United States. The best bids I have been able to obtain have guaranteed
a first delivery at the end of one year and final deliveries at the end of three years.

One of the chief developments in the matter of explosives has been the fact that the United
States has found it possible to teach Europe much during this war in regard to smokeless powder.
Several years ago the du Pont Powder Company developed a smokeless rifle powder which permits
the firing of more than 20,000 rounds from an ordinary army rifle without destroying its accuracy.

When the du Ponts developed their new rifle powder the best European powder destroyed the rifling
and accuracy of the gun at about 3,000 rounds. This American invention, therefore, has increased
the life of military rifles by sevenfold. Say that an equipment of military rifles cost at
the rate of, say, $20 each, and we will find that this means a saving of, roughly, $100,000,000
in the equipment of a million men with one rifle each, and, as they need four rifles each,
it means a saving of $400,000,000.

American smokeless powder for cannon also has its advantages. It erodes the guns much less
than any European powder except, possibly, that of the Germans. They have a pure nitro-cellulose
powder somewhat similar in quality to that of the United States, but ours has an advantage
in being multi-perforated, whereby a higher velocity is insured at a lower pressure with, in
consequence, a lessened erosive effect upon the guns.

In the early nineties I made the discovery that tri-nitro-cellulose, when combined with pyro-nitro-cellulose,
could be much more readily gelatinated and made an excellent smokeless powder, while powder
made from pure nitro-cellulose would warp and crack all to pieces in drying. The present German
powder is made from such a compound of tri-nitro-cellulose and soluble nitro-cellulose.

Nevertheless, this compound is a makeshift as compared with the nitro-cellulose used by this
Government. Ours is a far better explosive, and is less erosive on the guns, because the gases
which it generates are not so hot. We have the best smokeless powder in the world, and, after
this war is over, our powder will be universally used.

Thor!

By BEATRICE BARRY

    I am the God of War--yea, God of Battle am I,
    And the evil men speak about me has moved me to fierce reply.
      Does not the surgeon's knife
      Torture--to save a life?
    So, for the life of nations, men learn to fight and die--
          Even die!

    Craven through love or fear do the weak of the earth await me
    Tensely, with bated breath--yea, teaching their sons to hate me.
      Lured by my rolling drum,
      Nevertheless they come
    Proudly, their youth and manhood offering up to sate me!

    You who would grudge me aught but harvest of woe and shame--
    Answer me, you who hate me, cursing my very name--
      When was a serf made free,
      Save and alone through me?
    When was a tyrant vanquished, save through my purging flame?

    After an age of peace do your sons wax soft, their weakness
    Shown in a love of ease, of sensuousness, and sleekness;
      Then, lest a nation die,
      Loud rings my battle-cry!
    Lo, they forsake snug warmth for desolate cold and bleakness!

    I am the God of War--yea, God of Battle am I,
    And the bolts of my savage anger I hurl from a threatening sky.
      Speak of me as you will,
      Swift though I be to kill,
    I have made men of weaklings--I teach men how to die--
          Even I!

"I am the Gravest Danger"

By George Bernard Shaw

In a cablegram to THE NEW YORK TIMES, dated July 17, 1915, it is reported that an article by
George Bernard Shaw in The New Statesman begins with a review of Professor Gilbert Murray's
book, "The Foreign Policy of Sir Edward Grey," and ends with the following characteristic reference
to himself:

"Like other Socialists, I have been too much preoccupied with the atrocities of peace and the
problems they raise to pay due attention to the atrocities of war, but I have not been unconscious
of the European question and I have made a few shots at solutions from time to time. None of
these have been received with the smallest approval, but at least I may be permitted to point
out that they have all come out right.

"I steadily ridiculed anti-armament agitation, and urged that our armaments should be doubled,
trebled, quadrupled, as they might have been without costing the country one farthing that
we were not wasting in the most mischievous manner.

"I said that the only policy which would secure the peace of Europe was a policy of using powerful
armament to guarantee France against Germany and Germany against Russia, aiming finally at
a great peace insurance league of the whole northwest of Europe with the United States of America
in defense of Western democratic civilization against the menace of the East and possible crusades
from primitive black Christians in Africa.

"When the war broke out I said some more things which were frantically contradicted and which
have all turned out to be precisely true. I set the example of sharp criticism of the Government
and the War Office, which was denounced as treasonable and which now proves to be the only
way of saving our army from annihilation, the Government having meanwhile collapsed and vanished,
as every ordinarily self-possessed person foresaw that it must.

"One fact seems established by this beyond doubt; to wit, that I am the gravest public danger
that confronts England, because I have the strange power of turning the nation passionately
away from the truth by the simple act of uttering it. The necessity for contradicting me, for
charging heroically in the opposite direction to that pointed out by me, is part of the delirium
of war fever.

"Sir Edward Grey, on the other hand, is spoken well of by all men, but he, too, is the victim
of a mysterious fate. He is, as Professor Murray has repeatedly testified, the most truthful
of men, yet he never opens his mouth without deceiving us. He is the most loyal of simple,
manly souls, yet he is accused of betraying every country and every diplomatist who trusted
him. He is the kindest of men, and yet he has implicated us in the tortures of Denshawai and
brought upon us the slaughters of Armageddon.

"Clearly, there are two men in England who must be sent into permanent
retirement. Depend on it, there is something fundamentally wrong with
them. It is a pity, for they are stuffed with the rarest of
virtues--though I say it, who should not. One of them is Sir Edward
Grey and the other is G.B.S." Only in
     France, whose people are making supreme sacrifices, and in
     Russia, whose factories are not yet organized for the
     nation, does industrial peace prevail. In England the
     Munitions bill, with its proposals for compulsory
     arbitration and for limiting profits unweakened, was passed
     on July 1st. The bill retained, also, the power for the
     Government to proclaim the extension of its strike-stopping
     authority to other trades than the munitions trades.

     An account of the conditions relating to labor in the
     various countries, beginning with the speech, in part, of
     Lloyd George, introducing the Munitions bill in the House of
     Commons on June 20, appears below.

A Volunteer Army of Workers

By Lloyd George, British Minister of Munitions

Addressing the House of Commons on June 20, 1915, Mr. Lloyd George said, in part:

What I want to impress not merely upon the House but on the country is that the duration of
the war, the toll of life and limb levied by the war, the amount of exhaustion caused by the
war, the economic and financial effect--and in order to understand the whole depth and meaning
of the problem with which we are confronted I would state the ultimate victory or defeat in
this war--depend on the supply of munitions which the rival countries can produce to equip
their armies in the field. That is the cardinal fact of the military situation in this war.
(Cheers.)

I heard the other day on very good authority--and this will give the House an idea of the tremendous
preparations made by the enemy for this war and of the expansion which has taken place even
since the war--that the Central European Powers are turning out 250,000 shells per day. That
is very nearly eight million shells per month. The problem of victory for us is how to equal,
how to surpass, that tremendous production. (Hear, hear.)

The Central European Powers have probably attained something like the limits of their possible
output. We have only just crossed the threshold of our possibilities. In France I had the privilege
of meeting M. Thomas, the Under Secretary for War, a man to whose great organizing capacity
a good deal of the success of the French provisions of war is attributable, and I am very reassured
not merely as to what France is doing and what France can do but as to what we can do when
I take into account what France has already accomplished.

Let us see the position France is in. Her most important industrial provinces were in the hands
of the enemy. Seventy per cent. of her steel production was in the hands of the enemy. She
had mobilized an enormous army and therefore had withdrawn a very considerable proportion of
her population from industry. She is not at best as great an industrial country as we are.
She is much of an agricultural and pastoral country. It is true that we have certain disadvantages
compared with France, and they are important. She has not the same gigantic Navy to draw upon
the engineering establishments of the country. That makes a very great difference. She has
more complete command over her labor. That makes an enormous difference, not merely in the
mobility of labor and the readiness with which she can transfer that labor from one center
to another, but in the discipline which obtains in the workshops. She has another advantage
with her arsenals, which at the outbreak of war corresponded to the magnitude of her Army--a
huge Army. We had a small Army to provide for. She, in addition to that, had undoubtedly a
very great trade with other countries in the production of munitions of war. These are the
advantages and disadvantages. Still, knowing these things and taking them all into account,
the surplus of our engineering resources available for the materials of war is undoubtedly
greater than that of France, and if we produce these things within the next few months as much
as they are likely to produce the Allies would not merely equal the production of the Central
Powers, but they would have an overwhelming superiority over the enemy in the material essential
to victory. That is the first great fact I would like to get into the minds of all those who
can render assistance to the country.

Germany has achieved a temporary preponderance of material. She has done it in two ways. She
accumulated great stores before the war. She has mobilized the whole of her industries after
the war, having no doubt taken steps before the war to be ready for the mobilization of the
workshops immediately after war was declared. Her preponderance in two or three directions
is very notable. I mention this because it is essential they should be understood in inviting
the assistance of the community to enable us to compete with this formidable enemy. The superiority
of the Germans in material was most marked in their heavy guns, their high explosive shells,
their rifles, and perhaps most of all their machine-guns. These have turned out to be about
the most formidable weapons in the war. They have almost superseded the rifle and rendered
it unnecessary.

The machinery for rifles and machine-guns takes eight and nine months to construct before you
begin to turn a single rifle or machine-gun. The Germans have undoubtedly anticipated the character
of the war in the way no other Power has done. They realized it was going to be a great trench
war. They had procured an adequate supply of machinery applicable to those conditions. The
professional man was essentially a very conservative one--(hear, hear)--and there are competent
soldiers who even today assume that his phase is purely a temporary one, that it would not
last long, and we shall be back on the old lines.

I have no doubt much time was lost owing to that opposition. The Germans never harbored that
delusion, and were fully prepared to batter down the deepest trenches of the enemy with the
heavy guns and high explosives, and to defend their own trenches with machine-guns. That is
the story of the war for ten months. We assumed that victory was rather due as a tribute from
fate, and our problem now is to organize victory, and not take it for granted. (Cheers.) To
do that the whole engineering and chemical resources of this country--of the whole Empire--must
be mobilized. When that is done France and ourselves alone, without Italy or Russia, can overtop
the whole Teutonic output.

The plan on which we have proceeded until recently I explained to the House in April. We recognized
that the arsenals then in existence were quite inadequate to supply the new Army or even the
old Army, giving the necessary material and taking into account the rate at which ammunition
was being expended. We had, therefore, to organize new sources of supply, and the War Office
was of opinion that the best method of attaining that object was to work through existing firms,
so as to have expert control and direction over companies and workshops, which up to that time
had no experience in turning out shells and guns and ammunition of all sorts. There was a great
deal to be said for that. There was, first of all, a difficulty unless something of that kind
was done of mobilizing all the resources at the disposal of the State. The total Army Estimates
were £28,000,000 in the year of peace. They suddenly became £700,000,000. All that represents
not merely twenty or twenty-five times as much money; it means twenty or twenty-five times
as much work. It means more than that, because it has to be done under pressure. The sort of
business which takes years to build up, develop, strengthen, and improve has suddenly to be
done in about five, six, seven, or eight months. The War Office came to the conclusion that
the best way of doing that was to utilize the skill of existing firms which were capable of
doing this work. The War Office staff are hard-working, capable men, but there are not enough.
There is one consideration which cannot be left out of account, and that is that men who are
quite equal to running long-established businesses run on old-established lines, may not always
be adequate to the task of organizing and administering a business thirty times its size on
novel and original lines.

To be quite candid, the organizing firms--the armament firms--were also inadequate to the gigantic
task cast upon them of not merely organizing their own work but of developing the resources
of the country outside. They could not command the stock, and sub-contracting has undoubtedly
been a failure. Sub-contracting has produced something like 10,000 shells a month. We have
only been at it a few days, and we have already placed with responsible firms orders for 150,000
shells a month. In a very short time I am confident it will be a quarter of a million or 300,000.
(Cheers.) It is a process of inviting business men to organize themselves and to assist us
to develop the resources of their district.

We have secured a very large number of business men; many business men are engaged in organizing
and directing their own business, business which is just as essential to the State in a period
of war as even the organization of this office; but still there are the services of many able
business men which are available, and we propose to utilize them to the full, first, in the
Central Office to organize it; secondly, in the localities to organize the resources there;
and, thirdly, we propose to have a great Central Advisory Committee of business men to aid
us to come to the right conclusions in dealing with the business community.

I should like just to point out two or three of the difficulties, in order to show the steps
which are taken to overcome them. The first difficulty, of course, is that of materials. There
is, as I pointed out, material of which you have abundance in this country, but there are others
which you have got to husband very carefully, and there is other material on which you have
got to spend a considerable sum of money in order to be able to develop it at a later stage.
With regard to this question, I think that it might be necessary ultimately for us to take
complete control of the Metal Market, so that available material should not be wasted on non-essential
work. (Hear, hear.) To a certain extent we have done that.

I should like to say a word with regard to raw material for explosives. We are building new
factories so that the expansion of explosives shall keep pace with that of shells, and in this
respect, again, I should like to dwell upon the importance of keeping up our coal supplies
in this country. It is the basis of all our high-explosives, and if there were a shortage for
any reason the consequences would be very calamitous.

Sometimes we do not get the best in these yards through the slackness of a minority and sometimes
through regulations, useful, perhaps essential, in times of peace for the protection of men
against undue pressure and strain, but which in times of war have the effect of restricting
output. If these are withdrawn no doubt it increases the strain on the men, and in a long course
of years they could not stand it. But in times of war everybody is working at full strain,
and therefore it is difficult to exaggerate the importance of suspending restrictions which
have the effect of diminishing the output of war material.

The fourth point is that the danger of having stoppages of work by means of strikes and lock-outs
ought to be removed during the time of the war. (Hear, hear.) I should have liked to have seen
strikes and lock-outs during the war made impossible in any trade, and I do not despair of
getting the assent of those who object to compulsory arbitration under normal conditions to
a temporary application of that principle during the period of the war.

The next step is one in which the Trade Unions are concerned. There was a very frank discussion
between the leaders of the Trade Unions and myself, and I was bound to point out that if there
were an inadequate supply of labor for the purpose of turning out munitions of war which are
necessary for the safety of the country compulsion would be inevitable.

They put forward as an alternative that the Government should give them the chance of supplying
that number of men. They said, "Give us seven days, and if in seven days we cannot get the
men we will admit that our case is considerably weakened." They asked us to place the whole
machinery of Government at their disposal, because they had not the organization to enlist
the number. We have arranged terms upon which the men are to be enlisted, and tomorrow morning
the seven days begin. Advertisements will appear in all the papers, an office has been organized,
and the Trade Union representatives are sitting there in council directing the recruiting operations.
I am not sure, but I believe my honorable friend Mr. Brace is the Adjutant-General. Tomorrow
we hope to be able to make a start. We have 180 town halls in different parts of the country
placed entirely at our disposal as recruiting offices. We invite the assistance of everybody
to try to secure as many volunteers as they possibly can--men who are not engaged upon Government
work now, skilled men--to enroll themselves in the Trade Union army for the purpose of going
anywhere where the Government invited them to go to assist in turning out different munitions
of war. If there are any honorable friends of mine who are opposed to compulsion, the most
effective service they can render to voluntarism is to make this army a success. (Cheers.)
If we succeed by these means--and the Board of Trade, the Munitions Department, and the War
Office are placing all their services at the disposal of this new recruiting office--if within
seven days we secure the labor, then the need for industrial compulsion will to that extent
have been taken away.

CALL TO BRITISH WORKERS

In a special cable dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES, dated June 24, appeared the following:

"England expects every workman to do his duty," is the new rendering of Nelson's Trafalgar
signal which is being flagged throughout the country today. Lloyd George has issued an appeal
to organized labor to come forward within the next seven days in a last supreme effort on behalf
of the voluntary system, and if it fails nothing remains but compulsion.

The appeal is being put before them by advertisements in newspapers, by speeches from labor
leaders, and by meetings throughout the country. A new workmen's army is being recruited just
as Kitchener's army was, and only seven days are given to gather together what may be termed
a mobile army of industry. It is estimated that a quarter of a million men well equipped for
the purposes required are available outside the ranks of those already engaged in the manufacture
of munitions. Nearly two hundred industrial recruiting offices throughout the country opened
at six o'clock last night, and, judging by reports already to hand, the voluntary system seems
again likely to justify itself.

"To British Workmen: Your skill is needed," runs one advertisement. "There are thousands of
skilled men who are burning to do something for King and country. By becoming a war munitions
volunteer each of them can do his bit for his homeland. Get into a factory and supply the firing
line."

Posters and small bills with both an artistic and literary "punch" are being prepared and sent
out for distribution. Newspapers with special working class clientèle are making direct appeals
to their readers.

TEN THOUSAND MEN A DAY

Mr. H.E. Morgan, of the War Munitions Ministry, said in an interview printed by The London
Daily Chronicle on July 1:

The War Munition Volunteers have amply justified their formation. During the last two days
the enrolments throughout the country have averaged ten thousand skilled and fully qualified
mechanics, who are exactly the type of worker we want. So far as the men are concerned, the
voluntary principle in industrial labor has triumphed.

