In this case the man has performed the part of a ventriloquist, in so far as he imitated accurately
the accents of the child; but the auditor could not long be deceived by such a performance.
If the man either hid his face or turned his back upon the auditor when he was executing his
imitation, a suspicion would immediately arise, the auditor would attend more diligently to
the circumstances of the exhibition, and would speedily detect the imposition. It is absolutely
necessary, therefore, that the ventriloquist shall possess another art, namely, that of speaking
without moving his lips or the muscles of his face: how this is effected, and how the art is
acquired, we do not certainly know; but we believe that it is accomplished by the muscles of
the throat, assisted by the action of the tongue upon the palate, the teeth, and the inside
of the lips--all of them being movements which are perfectly compatible with the immutability
of the lips themselves, and the absolute expression of silence in the countenance. The sounds
thus uttered are necessarily of a different character from those which are produced by the
organs of speech when unimpeded, and this very circumstance gives double force to the deception,
especially when the ventriloquist artfully presents the contrast to his auditor by occasionally
speaking with his natural voice. If he carries in his hand those important personages Punch
and Judy, and makes their movements even tolerably responsive to the sentiment of the dialogue,
the spectator will be infinitely more disposed to refer the sounds to the lantern jaws and
the timber lips of the puppets than to the conjurer himself, who presents to them the picture
of absolute silence and repose.

Mr. Dugald Stewart, who has written an interesting article on ventriloquism in the appendix
to the third volume of the "Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind," has, we think, taken
a very imperfect view of the subject. He not only doubts the fact, that ventriloquists possess
the power of fetching a voice from within, but "he cannot conceive what aid the ventriloquist
could derive in the exercise of his art from such an extraordinary power, if it were really
in his possession." He expresses himself "fully satisfied, that the imagination alone of the
spectators, when skilfully managed, may be rendered subservient in a considerable degree to
the purposes of the ventriloquist;" and he is rather inclined to think, that "when seconded
by such powers of imitation as some mimics possess, it is quite sufficient to account for all
the phenomena of ventriloquism of which we have heard."

From these observations it would appear, that Mr. Stewart had never witnessed those feats of
the ventriloquist where his face is distinctly presented to the audience--a case in which he
must necessarily speak from within. But independent of this fact, it is very obvious that there
are many imitations, especially those of the cries of particular animals, and of sounds of
a high pitch, which cannot be performed pleno ore, by the ordinary modes of utterance, but
which require for their production that very faculty, of which Mr. Stewart doubts the existence.
Such sounds are necessarily produced by the throat, without requiring the use of the mouth
and lips; and the deception actually depends on the difference between such sounds, and those
which are generated by the ordinary modes of utterance.

The art of ventriloquism, therefore, consists in the power of imitating all kinds of sound,
not only in their ordinary character, but as modified by distance, obstructions, and other
causes; and also in the power of executing those imitations by muscular exertions which cannot
be seen by the spectators. But these powers, to whatever degree of perfection they may be possessed,
would be of no avail if it were not for the incapacity of the ear to distinguish the directions
of sounds--an incapacity not arising from any defect in the organ itself, but from the very
nature of sound. If sound were propagated in straight lines, like light, and if the ear appreciated
the direction of the one, as the eye does that of the other, the ventriloquist would exercise
in vain all the powers of imitation and of internal utterance. Even in the present constitution
of the ear, his art has its limits, beyond which he must be cautious of pushing it, unless
he calls to his aid another principle, which, we believe, has not yet been tried. In order
to explain this, we shall analyze some of the most common feats of ventriloquism. When M. Fitzjames
imitated the watchman crying the hour in the street, and approaching nearer and nearer the
house, till he came opposite the window, he threw up the window-sash, and asked the hour, which
was immediately answered in the same tone, but clearer and louder; and upon shutting the window,
the watchman's voice became less audible, and all at once very faint, when the ventriloquist
called out, in his own voice, that he had turned the corner. Now, as the artist was stationed
at the window, and as the sound from a real watchman must necessarily have entered by the window,
the difference between the two directions was considerably less than that which the ear is
unable to appreciate. Had the ventriloquist stood at one window, and tried to make the sound
of a watchman's voice enter another window, he would have failed in his performance, because
the difference of the two directions was too great. In like manner, when M. Alexandre introduced
a boy from the street, and made him sing from his stomach the song of Malbrook, he placed his
head as near as possible to the boy's chest, under the pretence of listening, whereas the real
object of it was to assimilate as much as possible the true and the fictitious direction of
the sounds. Had he placed the boy at the distance of six or eight feet, the real singer would
have been soon detected.

We have made several experiments with a view of determining the angle of uncertainty, or the
angle within which the ear cannot discover the direction of sounds; but this is not easily
done, for it varies with the state of the air and of surrounding objects. If the air is perfectly
pure, and if no objects surround the sounding body, the angle of uncertainty will be less than
under any other circumstances, as the sound suffers neither deviation nor reflection. If the
sounding body is encircled with objects which reflect sound, the echoes arrive at the ear,
at short distances, nearly at the same time with the direct sound; and as they form a single
sound, the angle of uncertainty must then be much greater, for the sound really arrives at
the ear from various quarters. The ventriloquist, therefore, might avail himself of this principle,
and choose an apartment in which the reverberations from its different sides multiply the directions
of the sounds which he utters, and thus facilitate his purpose of directing the imagination
of his audience to the object from which he wishes these sounds to be thought to proceed.

Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON STERNE.

  How often wrongs our nomenclature,
  How our names differ from our nature,
    'Tis easy to discern:
  "Here lies the quintessence of wit,
  For mirth and humour none so fit,
    And yet men call him--Stern--e!"

       *       *       *       *       *

LADIES FORMERLY IN PARLIAMENT.

(For the Mirror.)

Gurdon, in his Antiquities of Parliaments, says, "The ladies of birth and quality sat in council
with the Saxon Wita's." "The Abbess Hilda (says Bede,) presided in an ecclesiastical synod."

