But this is a very serious conclusion. It will be a terrible thing if everyone is going to
carry the tools of his trade about with him to show that he has a trade; the barrister his
briefs, the doctor his stethoscope or his shiny black bag; the butcher his chopper; the dentist--but
no, we cannot have that. There must be other ways. We might wear badges, as we did in the War,
only they would be office badges and trade badges, instead of regimental badges or discharged
badges. Then we should have again the dear old war-game of trying to read what was on them
without being rude. That is what one really misses in public places in these days of Peace--that
and the uniforms.

It was easy to make conversation in a restaurant in the old days, when people kept on coming
in in curious uniforms, and the ladies wondered what they were and the men pretended they knew
all about them. But all that is dead now, and I think these sweat-badges would supply a serious
want.

But what will the author wear? And who will believe that he ever breaks into beads of perspiration
at his labour?

A. P. H.

[Footnote 1: February 24th, col. 1638.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

     "CAN EUROPE BE SAVED?

     By LOVAT FRASER."

     Daily Mail.

We don't know; but there can be no harm in his trying.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commercial Candour.

     "Your Soil needs a tonic. Send 2s. 6d. for 40 lb. Ground Lime in a
     Government twill bag, worth half the money."--Local Paper.

     "Antique Copper Fire-irons and Dogs, almost new."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PACKET RAT.

  "When I leave this Western Ocean, to the South'ard I will steer,
  In a tall Colonial clipper far an' far enough from here,
  Down the Channel on a bowline, through the Tropics runnin' free,
  When I'm done with this 'ere ocean ... an' when it's done with me.

  "An' I'll run my ship in Sydney, an' then I'll work my way
  To them smilin' South Seas Islands where there's sunshine all the day,
  An' I'll sell my chest an' gear there as soon's I hit the shore,
  An' sling my last discharge away, an' go to sea no more.

  "It's a pleasant time they have there--they've easy quiet lives;
  They wear no clothes to speak on; they've a bunch of browny wives;
  They're bathin' all the day long or baskin' on the sand,
  With the jolly brown Kanakas as naked as your hand.

  "An' I'll lay there in the palm-shade, an' take my ease all day,
  An' look across the harbour at the shippin' in the bay,
  An' watch the workin' sailormen--the bloomin' same as me
  In the workin' Western Ocean afore I left the sea.

  "I'll hear them at the capstan, a-heavin' good an' hard;
  I'll hear them tallyin' on the fall or sweatin' up the yard;
  Hear them lift a halliard shanty, hear the bosun swear and shout,
  An' the thrashin' o' the headsheets as the vessel goes about.

  "An', if the fancy takes me, as it's like enough it may,
  For to smell the old ship-smells again an' taste the salt an' spray,
  I can take a spell o' pearlin' or a tradin' cruise or two
  Where there's none but golden weather an' a sky that's always blue.

  "But I'll do no sailorisin' jobs--I'll walk or lay at ease,
  Like a blessed packet-captain, just as lordly as you please,
  With a steward for my table an' a boy to bring my beer,
  An' a score or so Kanakas for to reef an' haul an' steer.

  "An' when I'm tired o' cruisin', up an' down an' here an' there,
  There'll be kind Kanaka women wi' the red flowers in their hair
  All a-waiting for to meet me there a-comin' in from sea,
  When I'm through with this here ocean ... an' that'll never be!

  "For I'd hear the parrots screamin' an' the palm-trees' drowsy tune,
  But I'd want the Banks in winter an' the smell of ice in June,
  An' the hard-case mates a-bawlin', an' the strikin' o' the bell ...
  God! I've cursed it oft an' cruel ... but I'd miss it all like Hell.

  "Yes, I'd miss the Western Ocean where the packets come an' go,
  An' the grey gulls wheelin', callin', an' the grey sky hangin' low,
  An' the blessed lights o' Liverpool a-winkin' through the rain
  To welcome us poor packet-rats come back to port again.

  "An' if I took an' died out there my soul'd never stay
  In them sunny Southern latitudes to wait the Judgment Day,
  For acrost the seas from England, oh, I'd hear the old life call,
  An' the bloomin' Western Ocean it'd get me after all.

  "I'd go flyin' like a seagull, as they say old shellbacks do,
  For to see the ships I sailed in an' the shipmates that I knew,
  An' the tough old North Atlantic where the roarin' gales do blow,
  An' the Western Ocean packets all a-plyin' to an' fro.

  "An' I'd leave the trades behind me an' I'd leave the Southern Cross,
  An' the mollymawks an' flyin'-fish an' stately albatross,
  An' I'd come through wind an' weather an' the fogs as white as wool,
  Till I sighted old Point Lynas an' the Port o' Liverpool.

  "An' I'd fly to some flash packet when the hands was bendin' sail,
  An' I'd set up on the main-truck doin' out my wings an' tail,
  An' I'd see the tug alongside an' the Peter flyin' free,
  An' the pilot come aboard her for to take her out to sea.

  "An' I'd follow down to Fastnet light, an' then I'd hang around
  There to watch 'em out to westward an' to meet the homeward bound,
  For I know it's easy talkin', an' I know when all is said
  It's the bloomin' Western Ocean what'll get me when I'm dead!"

C. F. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETIQUETTE FOR FIRES.

It seems that Mr. A. R. DYER, the Chief Officer of the London Fire Brigade, has issued a booklet
giving hints on fire protection and also how to call the Fire Brigade. We have pleasure in
giving a few points which we are sure are not included in this interesting and useful publication.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before sending for the Fire Brigade it is advisable to make quite sure that you have a fire
in the house to offer them. But do not adopt the old plan of waiting until it reaches the second-floor.
This is rather apt to discolour the wall-paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Above all the householder who intends to have a fire in his house must keep calm. Immediately
the maid rushes into the room to say that the kitchen is on fire, place the book you are reading
on the table, remove your slippers and put on a thick pair of heavy boots and a Harris tweed
shooting coat. Your next duty is to call the Fire Brigade, and not to meddle with the fire
yourself, for very often an amateur completely spoils a fire before the Brigade arrives.

       *       *       *       *       *

When you see the Brigade engine dashing along the road don't stop it and offer to show the
driver a short cut. And when they start work do not worry the firemen by telling them how to
do it better. After all, while it may be your house, it is their fire.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "TO SEVERAL INTERESTED.--Our editor, Mr. ---- is not an Englishman his
     name is a pseudonime.--English ortograhist. Our setters do not yet
     speak English at all, be assured that we will do sur best to escape
     the errata in the nearest future."

     The World's Trade (Budapest).

We take their word for it but are not sanguine.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PARTY TACTICS.

