It takes time to kill a hippo, provided one is wanted. The mark is small, and generally it
is impossible to tell whether or not the bullet has reached the brain. Harmed or whole the
beast sinks anyway. Some hours later the distention of the stomach will float the body. Therefore
the only decent way to do is to take the shot, and then wait a half day to see whether or not
you have missed. There are always plenty of volunteers in camp to watch the pool, for the boys
are extravagantly fond of hippo meat. Then it is necessary to manoeuvre a rope on the carcass,
often a matter of great difficulty, for the other hippos bellow and snort and try to live up
to the circus posters of the Blood-sweating Behemoth of Holy Writ, and the crocodiles like
dark meat very much. Usually one offers especial reward to volunteers, and shoots into the
water to frighten the beasts. The volunteer dashes rapidly across the shallows, makes a swift
plunge, and clambers out on the floating body as onto a raft.

Then he makes fast the rope, and everybody tails on and tows the whole outfit ashore. On one
occasion the volunteer produced a fish line and actually caught a small fish from the floating
carcass! This sounds like a good one; but I saw it with my own two eyes.

It was at the hippo pool camp that we first became acquainted with Funny Face.

Funny Face was the smallest, furriest little monkey you ever saw. I never cared for monkeys
before; but this one was altogether engaging. He had thick soft fur almost like that on a Persian
cat, and a tiny human black face, and hands that emerged from a ruff; and he was about as big
as old-fashioned dolls used to be before they began to try to imitate real babies with them.
That is to say, he was that big when we said farewell to him. When we first knew him, had he
stood in a half pint measure he could just have seen over the rim. We caught him in a little
thorn ravine all by himself, a fact that perhaps indicates that his mother had been killed,
or perhaps that he, like a good little Funny Face, was merely staying where he was told while
she was away. At any rate he fought savagely, according to his small powers. We took him ignominiously
by the scruff of the neck, haled him to camp, and dumped him down on Billy. Billy constructed
him a beautiful belt by sacrificing part of a kodak strap (mine), and tied him to a chop box
filled with dry grass. Thenceforth this became Funny Face's castle, at home and on the march.

Within a few hours his confidence in life was restored. He accepted small articles of food
from our hands, eyeing us intently, retired and examined them. As they all proved desirable,
he rapidly came to the conclusion that these new large strange monkeys, while not so beautiful
and agile as his own people, were nevertheless a good sort after all. Therefore he took us
into his confidence. By next day he was quite tame, would submit to being picked up without
struggling, and had ceased trying to take an end off our various fingers. In fact when the
finger was presented, he would seize it in both small black hands; convey it to his mouth;
give it several mild and gentle love-chews; and then, clasping it with all four hands, would
draw himself up like a little athlete and seat himself upright on the outspread palm. Thence
he would survey the world, wrinkling up his tiny brow.

This chastened and scholarly attitude of mind lasted for four or five days. Then Funny Face
concluded that he understood all about it, had settled satisfactorily to himself all the problems
of the world and his relations to it, and had arrived at a good working basis for life. Therefore
these questions ceased to occupy him. He dismissed them from his mind completely, and gave
himself over to light-hearted frivolity.

His disposition was flighty but full of elusive charm. You deprecated his lack of serious purpose
in life, disapproved heartily of his irresponsibility, but you fell to his engaging qualities.
He was a typical example of the lovable good-for-naught. Nothing retained his attention for
two consecutive minutes. If he seized a nut and started for his chop box with it, the chances
were he would drop it and forget all about it in the interest excited by a crawling ant or
the colour of a flower. His elfish face was always alight with the play of emotions and of
flashing changing interests. He was greatly given to starting off on very important errands,
which he forgot before he arrived.

In this he contrasted strangely with his friend Darwin. Darwin was another monkey of the same
species, caught about a week later. Darwin's face was sober and pondering, and his methods
direct and effective. No side excursions into the brilliant though evanescent fields of fancy
diverted him from his ends. These were, generally, to get the most and best food and the warmest
corner for sleep. When he had acquired a nut, a kernel of corn, or a piece of fruit, he sat
him down and examined it thoroughly and conscientiously and then, conscientiously and thoroughly,
he devoured it. No extraneous interest could distract his attention; not for a moment. That
he had sounded the seriousness of life is proved by the fact that he had observed and understood
the flighty character of Funny Face. When Funny Face acquired a titbit, Darwin took up a hump-backed
position near at hand, his bright little eyes fixed on his friend's activities. Funny Face
would nibble relishingly at his prune for a moment or so; then an altogether astonishing butterfly
would flitter by just overhead. Funny Face, lost in ecstasy would gaze skyward after the departing
marvel. This was Darwin's opportunity. In two hops he was at Funny Face's side. With great
deliberation, but most businesslike directness, Darwin disengaged Funny Face's unresisting
fingers from the prune, seized it, and retired. Funny Face never knew it; his soul was far
away after the blazoned wonder, and when it returned, it was not to prunes at all. They were
forgotten, and his wandering eye focussed back to a bright button in the grass. Thus by strict
attention to business did Darwin prosper.

Darwin's attitude was always serious, and his expression grave. When he condescended to romp
with Funny Face one could see that it was not for the mere joy of sport, but for the purposes
of relaxation. If offered a gift he always examined it seriously before finally accepting it,
turning it over and over in his hands, and considering it with wrinkled brow. If you offered
anything to Funny Face, no matter what, he dashed up, seized it on the fly, departed at speed
uttering grateful low chatterings; probably dropped and forgot it in the excitement of something
new before he had even looked to see what it was.

"These people," said Darwin to himself, "on the whole, and as an average, seem to give me appropriate
and pleasing gifts. To be sure, it is always well to see that they don't try to bunco me with
olive stones or such worthless trash, but still I believe they are worth cultivating and standing
in with."

"It strikes me," observed Funny Face to himself, "that my adorable Memsahib and my beloved
bwana have been very kind to me to-day, though I don't remember precisely how. But I certainly
do love them!"

We cut good sized holes on each of the four sides of their chop box to afford them ventilation
on the march. The box was always carried on one of the safari boy's heads: and Funny Face and
Darwin gazed forth with great interest. It was very amusing to see the big negro striding jauntily
along under his light burden; the large brown winking eyes glued to two of the apertures. When
we arrived in camp and threw the box cover open, they hopped forth, shook themselves, examined
their immediate surroundings and proceeded to take a little exercise. When anything alarmed
them, such as the shadow of a passing hawk, they skittered madly up the nearest thing in sight-tent
pole, tree, or human form-- and scolded indignantly or chittered in a low tone according to
the degree of their terror. When Funny Face was very young, indeed, the grass near camp caught
fire. After the excitement was over we found him completely buried in the straw of his box,
crouched, and whimpering like a child. As he could hardly, at his tender age, have had any
previous experience with fire, this instinctive fear was to me very interesting.

The monkeys had only one genuine enemy. That was an innocent plush lion named Little Simba.
It had been given us in joke before we left California, we had tucked it into an odd corner
of our trunk, had discovered it there, carried it on safari out of sheer idleness, and lo!
it had become an important member of the expedition. Every morning Mahomet or Yusuf packed
it-or rather him-carefully away in the tin box. Promptly at the end of the day's march Little
Simba was haled forth and set in a place of honour in the centre of the table, and reigned
there-or sometimes in a little grass jungle constructed by his faithful servitors-until the
march was again resumed. His job in life was to look after our hunting luck. When he failed
to get us what we wanted, he was punished; when he procured us what we desired he was rewarded
by having his tail sewed on afresh, or by being presented with new black thread whiskers, or
even a tiny blanket of Mericani against the cold. This last was an especial favour for finally
getting us the greater kudu. Naturally as we did all this in the spirit of an idle joke our
rewards and punishments were rather desultory. To our surprise, however, we soon found that
our boys took Little Simba quite seriously. He was a fetish, a little god, a power of good
or bad luck. We did not appreciate this point until one evening, after a rather disappointing
day, Mahomet came to us bearing Little Simba in his hand.

"Bwana," said he respectfully, "is it enough that I shut Simba in the tin box, or do you wish
to flog him?"

On one very disgraceful occasion, when everything went wrong, we plucked Little Simba from
his high throne and with him made a beautiful drop-kick out into the tall grass. There, in
a loud tone of voice, we sternly bade him lie until the morrow. The camp was bung-eyed. It
is not given to every people to treat its gods in such fashion: indeed, in very deed, great
is the white man! To be fair, having published Little Simba's disgrace, we should publish also
Little Simba's triumph: to tell how, at the end of a certain very lucky three months' safari
he was perched atop a pole and carried into town triumphantly at the head of a howling, singing
procession of a hundred men. He returned to America, and now, having retired from active professional
life, is leading an honoured old age among the trophies he helped to procure.

Funny Face first met Little Simba when on an early investigating tour. With considerable difficulty
he had shinnied up the table leg, and had hoisted himself over the awkwardly projecting table
edge. When almost within reach of the fascinating affairs displayed atop, he looked straight
up into the face of Little Simba! Funny Face shrieked aloud, let go all holds and fell off
flat on his back. Recovering immediately, he climbed just as high as he could, and proceeded,
during the next hour, to relieve his feelings by the most insulting chatterings and grimaces.
He never recovered from this initial experience. All that was necessary to evoke all sorts
of monkey talk was to produce Little Simba. Against his benign plush front then broke a storm
of remonstrance. He became the object of slow advances and sudden scurrying, shrieking retreats,
that lasted just as long as he stayed there, and never got any farther than a certain quite
conservative point. Little Simba did not mind. He was too busy being a god.

XXIV. BUFFALO

The Cape Buffalo is one of the four dangerous kinds of African big game; of which the other
three are the lion, the rhinoceros, and the elephant. These latter are familiar to us in zoological
gardens, although the African and larger form of the rhinoceros and elephant are seldom or
never seen in captivity. But buffaloes are as yet unrepresented in our living collections.
They are huge beasts, tremendous from any point of view, whether considered in height, in mass,
or in power. At the shoulder they stand from just under five feet to just under six feet in
height; they are short legged, heavy bodied bull necked, thick in every dimension. In colour
they are black as to hair, and slate gray as to skin; so that the individual impression depends
on the thickness of the coat. They wear their horns parted in the middle, sweeping smoothly
away in the curves of two great bosses either side the head. A good trophy will measure in
spread from forty inches to four feet. Four men will be required to carry in the head alone.
As buffaloes when disturbed or suspicious have a habit of thrusting their noses up and forward,
that position will cling to one's memory as the most typical of the species.

A great many hunters rank the buffalo first among the dangerous beasts. This is not my own
opinion, but he is certainly dangerous enough. He possesses the size, power, and truculence
of the rhinoceros, together with all that animal's keenness of scent and hearing but with a
sharpness of vision the rhinoceros has not. While not as clever as either the lion or the elephant,
he is tricky enough when angered to circle back for the purpose of attacking his pursuers in
the rear or flank, and to arrange rather ingenious ambushes for the same purpose. He is rather
more tenacious of life than the rhinoceros, and will carry away an extraordinary quantity of
big bullets. Add to these considerations the facts that buffaloes go in herds; and that, barring
luck, chances are about even they will have to be followed into the thickest cover, it can
readily be seen that their pursuit is exciting.

The problem would be simplified were one able or willing to slip into the thicket or up to
the grazing herd and kill the nearest beast that offers. As a matter of fact an ordinary herd
will contain only two or three bulls worth shooting; and it is the hunter's delicate task to
glide and crawl here and there, with due regard for sight, scent and sound, until he has picked
one of these from the scores of undesirables. Many times will he worm his way by inches toward
the great black bodies half defined in the screen of thick undergrowth only to find that he
has stalked cows or small bulls. Then inch by inch he must back out again, unable to see twenty
yards to either side, guiding himself by the probabilities of the faint chance breezes in the
thicket. To right and left he hears the quiet continued crop, crop, crop, sound of animals
grazing. The sweat runs down his face in streams, and blinds his eyes, but only occasionally
and with the utmost caution can he raise his hand-or, better, lower his head-to clear his vision.
When at last he has withdrawn from the danger zone, he wipes his face, takes a drink from the
canteen, and tries again. Sooner or later his presence comes to the notice of some old cow.
Behind the leafy screen where unsuspected she has been standing comes the most unexpected and
heart-jumping crash! Instantly the jungle all about roars into life. The great bodies of the
alarmed beasts hurl themselves through the thicket, smash! bang! crash! smash! as though a
tornado were uprooting the forest. Then abruptly a complete silence! This lasts but ten seconds
or so; then off rushes the wild stampede in another direction; only again to come to a listening
halt of breathless stillness. So the hunter, unable to see anything, and feeling very small,
huddles with his gunbearers in a compact group, listening to the wild surging short rushes,
now this way, now that, hoping that the stampede may not run over him. If by chance it does,
he has his two shots and the possibility of hugging a tree while the rush divides around him.
The latter is the most likely; a single buffalo is hard enough to stop with two shots, let
alone a herd. And yet, sometimes, the mere flash and noise will suffice to turn them, provided
they are not actually trying to attack, but only rushing indefinitely about. Probably a man
can experience few more thrilling moments than he will enjoy standing in one of the small leafy
rooms of an African jungle while several hundred tons of buffalo crash back and forth all around
him.

In the best of circumstances it is only rarely that having identified his big bull, the hunter
can deliver a knockdown blow. The beast is extraordinarily vital, and in addition it is exceedingly
difficult to get a fair, open shot. Then from the danger of being trampled down by the blind
and senseless stampede of the herd he passes to the more defined peril from an angered and
cunning single animal. The majority of fatalities in hunting buffaloes happen while following
wounded beasts. A flank charge at close range may catch the most experienced man; and even
when clearly seen, it is difficult to stop. The buffalo's wide bosses are a helmet to his brain,
and the body shot is always chancy. The beast tosses his victim, or tramples him, or pushes
him against a tree to crush him like a fly.

He who would get his trophy, however, is not always-perhaps is not generally-forced into the
thicket to get it. When not much disturbed, buffaloes are in the habit of grazing out into
the open just before dark; and of returning to their thicket cover only well after sunrise.
If the hunter can arrange to meet his herd at such a time, he stands a very good chance of
getting a clear shot. The job then requires merely ordinary caution and manoeuvring; and the
only danger, outside the ever-present one from the wounded beast, is that the herd may charge
over him deliberately. Therefore it is well to keep out of sight.

The difficulty generally is to locate your beasts. They wander all night, and must be blundered
upon in the early morning before they have drifted back into the thickets. Sometimes, by sending
skilled trackers in several directions, they can be traced to where they have entered cover.
A messenger then brings the white man to the place, and every one tries to guess at what spot
the buffaloes are likely to emerge for their evening stroll. It is remarkably easy to make
a wrong guess, and the remaining daylight is rarely sufficient to repair a mistake. And also,
in the case of a herd ranging a wide country with much tall grass and several drinking holes,
it is rather difficult, without very good luck, to locate them on any given night or morning.
A few herds, a very few, may have fixed habits, and so prove easy hunting.

These difficulties, while in no way formidable, are real enough in their small way; but they
are immensely increased when the herds have been often disturbed. Disturbance need not necessarily
mean shooting. In countries unvisited by white men often the pastoral natives will so annoy
the buffalo by shoutings and other means, whenever they appear near the tame cattle, that the
huge beasts will come practically nocturnal. In that case only the rankest luck will avail
to get a man a chance in the open. The herds cling to cover until after sundown and just at
dusk; and they return again very soon after the first streaks of dawn. If the hunter just happens
to be at the exact spot, he may get a twilight shot when the glimmering ivory of his front
sight is barely visible. Otherwise he must go into the thicket.

As an illustration of the first condition might be instanced an afternoon on the Tana. The
weather was very hot. We had sent three lots of men out in different directions, each under
the leadership of one of the gunbearers, to scout, while we took it easy in the shade of our
banda, or grass shelter, on the bank of the river. About one o'clock a messenger came into
camp reporting that the men under Mavrouki had traced a herd to its lying-down place. We took
our heavy guns and started.

The way led through thin scrub up the long slope of a hill that broke on the other side into
undulating grass ridges that ended in a range of hills. These were about four or five miles
distant, and thinly wooded on sides and lower slopes with what resembled a small live-oak growth.
Among these trees, our guide told us, the buffalo had first been sighted.

The sun was very hot, and all the animals were still. We saw impalla in the scrub, and many
giraffes and bucks on the plains. After an hour and a half's walk we entered the parklike groves
at the foot of the hills, and our guide began to proceed more cautiously. He moved forward
a few feet, peered about, retraced his steps. Suddenly his face broke into a broad grin. Following
his indication we looked up, and there in a tree almost above us roosted one of our boys sound
asleep! We whistled at him. Thereupon he awoke, tried to look very alert, and pointed in the
direction we should go. After an interval we picked up another sentinel, and another, and another
until, passed on thus from one to the next, we traced the movements of the herd. Finally we
came upon Mavrouki and Simba under a bush. From them, in whispers, we learned that the buffalo
were karibu sana-very near; that they had fed this far, and were now lying in the long grass
just ahead. Leaving the men, we now continued our forward movement on hands and knees, in single
file. It was very hot work, for the sun beat square down on us, and the tall grass kept off
every breath of air. Every few moments we rested, lying on our faces. Occasionally, when the
grass shortened, or the slant of ground tended to expose us, we lay quite flat and hitched
forward an inch at a time by the strength of our toes. This was very severe work indeed, and
we were drenched in perspiration. In fact, as I had been feeling quite ill all day, it became
rather doubtful whether I could stand the pace.

However after a while we managed to drop down into an eroded deep little ravine. Here the air
was like that of a furnace, but at least we could walk upright for a few rods. This we did,
with the most extraordinary precautions against even the breaking of a twig or the rolling
of a pebble. Then we clambered to the top of the bank, wormed our way forward another fifty
feet to the shelter of a tiny bush, and stretched out to recuperate. We lay there some time,
sheltered from the sun. Then ahead of us suddenly rumbled a deep bellow. We were fairly upon
the herd!

Cautiously F., who was nearest the centre of the bush, raised himself alongside the stem to
look. He could see where the beasts were lying, not fifty yards away, but he could make out
nothing but the fact of great black bodies taking their ease in the grass under the shade of
trees. So much he reported to us; then rose again to keep watch.

Thus we waited the rest of the afternoon. The sun dipped at last toward the west, a faint irregular
breeze wandered down from the hills, certain birds awoke and uttered their clear calls, an
unsuspected kongoni stepped from the shade of a tree over the way and began to crop the grass,
the shadows were lengthening through the trees. Then ahead of us an uneasiness ran through
the herd. We in the grass could hear the mutterings and grumblings of many great animals. Suddenly
F. snapped his fingers, stooped low and darted forward. We scrambled to our feet and followed.

Across a short open space we ran, bent double to the shelter of a big ant hill. Peering over
the top of this we found ourselves within sixty yards of a long compact column of the great
black beasts, moving forward orderly to the left, the points of the cow's horns, curved up
and in, tossing slowly as the animals walked. On the flank of the herd was a big gray bull.

It had been agreed that B. was to have the shot. Therefore he opened fire with his 405 Winchester,
a weapon altogether too light for this sort of work. At the shot the herd dashed forward to
an open grass meadow a few rods away, wheeled and faced back in a compact mass, their noses
thrust up and out in their typical fashion, trying with all their senses to locate the cause
of the disturbance.

Taking advantage both of the scattered cover, and the half light of the shadows we slipped
forward as rapidly and as unobtrusively as we could to the edge of the grass meadow. Here we
came to a stand eighty yards from the buffaloes. They stood compactly like a herd of cattle,
staring, tossing their heads, moving slightly, their wild eyes searching for us. I saw several
good bulls, but always they moved where it was impossible to shoot without danger of getting
the wrong beast. Finally my chance came; I planted a pair of Holland bullets in the shoulder
of one of them.

The herd broke away to the right, sweeping past us at close range. My bull ran thirty yards
with them, then went down stone dead. When we examined him we found the hole made by B.'s Winchester
bullet; so that quite unintentionally and by accident I had fired at the same beast. This was
lucky. The trophy, by hunter's law, of course, belonged to B.

Therefore F. and I alone followed on after the herd. It was now coming on dusk. Within a hundred
yards we began to see scattered beasts. The formation of the herd had broken. Some had gone
on in flight, while others in small scattered groups would stop to stare back, and would then
move slowly on for a few paces before stopping again. Among these I made out a bull facing
us about a hundred and twenty-five yards away, and managed to stagger him, but could not bring
him down.

Now occurred an incident which I should hesitate to relate were it not that both F. and myself
saw it. We have since talked it over, compared our recollections, and found them to coincide
in every particular.

As we moved cautiously in pursuit of the slowly retreating herd three cows broke back and came
running down past us. We ducked aside and hid, of course, but noticed that of the three two
were very young, while one was so old that she had become fairly emaciated, a very unusual
thing with buffaloes. We then followed the herd for twenty minutes, or until twilight, when
we turned back. About halfway down the slope we again met the three cows, returning. They passed
us within twenty yards, but paid us no attention whatever. The old cow was coming along very
reluctantly, hanging back at every step, and every once in a while swinging her head viciously
at one or the other of her two companions. These escorted her on either side, and a little
to the rear. They were plainly urging her forward, and did not hesitate to dig her in the ribs
with their horns whenever she turned especially obstinate. In fact they acted exactly like
a pair of cowboys HERDING a recalcitrant animal back to its band and I have no doubt at all
that when they first by us the old lady was making a break for liberty in the wrong direction,
AND THAT THE TWO YOUNGER COWS WERE TRYING TO ROUND HER BACK! Whether they were her daughters
or not is problematical; but it certainly seemed that they were taking care of her and trying
to prevent her running back where it was dangerous to go. I never heard of a similar case,
though Herbert Ward* mentions, without particulars that elephants AND BUFFALOES will assist
each other WHEN WOUNDED.

     * A Voice from the Congo.

After passing these we returned to where B. and the men, who had now come up, had prepared
the dead bull for transportation. We started at once, travelling by the stars, shouting and
singing to discourage the lions, but did not reach camp until well into the night.

XXV. THE BUFFALO-continued

Some months later, and many hundreds of miles farther south, Billy and I found ourselves alone
with twenty men, and two weeks to pass until C.-our companion at the time-should return from
a long journey out with a wounded man. By slow stages, and relaying back and forth, we landed
in a valley so beautiful in every way that we resolved to stay as long as possible. This could
be but five days at most. At the end of that time we must start for our prearranged rendezvous
with C.

The valley was in the shape of an ellipse, the sides of which were formed by great clifflike
mountains, and the other two by hills lower, but still of considerable boldness and size. The
longest radius was perhaps six or eight miles, and the shortest three or four. At one end a
canyon dropped away to a lower level, and at the other a pass in the hills gave over to the
country of the Narassara River. The name of the valley was Lengeetoto.

From the great mountains flowed many brooks of clear sparkling water, that ran beneath the
most beautiful of open jungles, to unite finally in one main stream that disappeared down the
canyon. Between these brooks were low broad rolling hills, sometimes grass covered, sometimes
grown thinly with bushes. Where they headed in the mountains, long stringers of forest trees
ran up to blocklike groves, apparently pasted like wafers against the base of the cliffs, but
in reality occupying spacious slopes below them.

We decided to camp at the foot of a long grass slant within a hundred yards of the trees along
one of the small streams. Before us we had the sweep of brown grass rising to a clear cut skyline;
and all about us the distant great hills behind which the day dawned and fell. One afternoon
a herd of giraffes stood silhouetted on this skyline quite a half hour gazing curiously down
on our camp. Hartebeeste and zebra swarmed in the grassy openings; and impalla in the brush.
We saw sing-sing and steinbuck, and other animals, and heard lions nearly every night. But
principally we elected to stay because a herd of buffaloes ranged the foothills and dwelt in
the groves of forest trees under the cliffs. We wanted a buffalo; and as Lengeetoto is practically
unknown to white men, we thought this a good chance to get one. In that I reckoned without
the fact that at certain seasons the Masai bring their cattle in, and at such times annoy the
buffalo all they can.

We started out well enough. I sent Memba Sasa with two men to locate the herd. About three
o'clock a messenger came to camp after me. We plunged through our own jungle, crossed a low
swell, traversed another jungle, and got in touch with the other two men. They reported the
buffalo had entered the thicket a few hundred yards below us. Cautiously reconnoitering the
ground it soon became evident that we would be forced more definitely to locate the herd. To
be sure, they had entered the stream jungle at a known point, but there could be no telling
how far they might continue in the thicket, nor on what side of it they would emerge at sundown.
Therefore we commenced cautiously and slowly follow the trail.

The going was very thick, naturally, and we could not see very far ahead. Our object was not
now to try for a bull, but merely to find where the herd was feeding, in order that we might
wait for it to come out. However, we were brought to a stand, in the middle of a jungle of
green leaves, by the cropping sound of a beast grazing just the other side of a bush. We could
not see it, and we stood stock still in the hope of escaping discovery ourselves. But an instant
later a sudden crash of wood told us we had been seen. It was near work. The gunbearers crouched
close to me. I held the heavy double gun ready. If the beast had elected to charge I would
have had less than ten yards within which to stop it. Fortunately it did not do so. But instantly
the herd was afoot and off at full speed. A locomotive amuck in a kindling pile could have
made no more appalling a succession of rending crashes than did those heavy animals rushing
here and there through the thick woody growth. We could see nothing. Twice the rush started
in our direction, but stopped as suddenly as it had begun, to be succeeded by absolute stillness
when everything, ourselves included, held its breath to listen. Finally, the first panic over,
the herd started definitely away downstream. We ran as fast as we could out of the jungle to
a commanding position on the hill. Thence we could determine the course of the herd. It continued
on downstream as far as we could follow the sounds in the convolutions of the hills. Realizing
that it would improbably recover enough from its alarmed condition to resume its regular habits
that day, we returned to camp.

Next morning Memba Sasa and I were afield before daylight. We took no other men. In hunting
I am a strong disbeliever in the common habit of trailing along a small army. It is simple
enough, in case the kill is made, to send back for help. No matter how skilful your men are
at stalking, the chances of alarming the game are greatly increased by numbers; while the possibilities
of misunderstanding the plan of campaign, and so getting into the wrong place at the wrong
time, are infinite. Alone, or with one gunbearer, a man can slip in and out a herd of formidable
animals with the least chances of danger. Merely going out after camp meat is of course a different
matter.

We did not follow in the direction taken by the herd the night before, but struck off toward
the opposite side of the valley. For two hours we searched the wooded country at the base of
the cliff mountains, working slowly around the circle, examining every inlet, ravine and gully.
Plenty of other sorts of game we saw, including elephant tracks not a half hour old; but no
buffalo. About eight o'clock, however, while looking through my glasses, I caught sight of
some tiny chunky black dots crawling along below the mountains diagonally across the valley,
and somewhat over three miles away. We started in that direction as fast as we could walk.
At the end of an hour we surmounted the last swell, and stood at the edge of a steep drop.
Immediately below us flowed a good-sized stream through a high jungle over the tops of which
we looked to a triangular gentle slope overgrown with scattered bushes and high grass. Beyond
this again ran another jungle, angling up hill from the first, to end in a forest of trees
about thirty or forty acres in extent. This jungle and these trees were backed up against the
slope of the mountain. The buffaloes we had first seen above the grove: they must now have
sought cover among either the trees or the lower jungle, and it seemed reasonable that the
beasts would emerge on the grass and bush area late in the afternoon. Therefore Memba Sasa
and I selected good comfortable sheltered spots, leaned our backs against rocks, and resigned
ourselves to long patience. It was now about nine o'clock in the morning, and we could not
expect our game to come out before half past three at earliest. We could not, however, go away
to come back later because of the chance that the buffaloes might take it into their heads
to go travelling. I had been fooled that way before. For this reason, also, it was necessary,
every five minutes or so, to examine carefully all our boundaries; lest the beasts might be
slipping away through the cover.

The hours passed very slowly. We made lunch last as long as possible. I had in my pocket a
small edition of Hawthorne's "The House of the Seven Gables," which I read, pausing every few
minutes to raise my glasses for the periodical examination of the country. The mental focussing
back from the pale gray half light of Hawthorne's New England to the actuality of wild Africa
was a most extraordinary experience.

Through the heat of the day the world lay absolutely silent. At about half-past three, however,
we heard rumblings and low bellows from the trees a half mile away. I repocketed Hawthorne,
and aroused myself to continuous alertness.

The ensuing two hours passed more slowly than all the rest of the day, for we were constantly
on the lookout. The buffaloes delayed most singularly, seemingly reluctant to leave their deep
cover. The sun dropped behind the mountains, and their shadow commenced to climb the opposite
range. I glanced at my watch. We had not more than a half hour of daylight left.

Fifteen minutes of this passed. It began to look as though our long and monotonous wait had
been quite in vain; when, right below us, and perhaps five hundred yards away, four great black
bodies fed leisurely from the bushes. Three of them we could see plainly. Two were bulls of
fair size. The fourth, half concealed in the brush, was by far the biggest of the lot.

In order to reach them we would have to slip down the face of the hill on which we sat, cross
the stream jungle at the bottom, climb out the other side, and make our stalk to within range.
With a half hour more of daylight this would have been comparatively easy, but in such circumstances
it is difficult to move at the same time rapidly and unseen. However, we decided to make the
attempt. To that end we disencumbered ourselves of all our extras-lunch box, book, kodak, glasses,
etc.-and wormed our way as rapidly as possible toward the bottom of the hill. We utilized the
cover as much as we were able, but nevertheless breathed a sigh of relief when we had dropped
below the line of the jungle. We wasted very little time crossing the latter, save for precautions
against noise. Even in my haste, however, I had opportunity to notice its high and austere
character, with the arching overhead vines, and the clear freedom from undergrowth in its heart.
Across this cleared space we ran at full speed, crouching below the grasp of the vines, splashed
across the brook and dashed up the other bank. Only a faint glimmer of light lingered in the
jungle. At the upper edge we paused, collected ourselves, and pushed cautiously through the
thick border-screen of bush.

The twilight was just fading into dusk. Of course we had taken our bearings from the other
hill; so now, after reassuring ourselves of them, we began to wriggle our way at a great pace
through the high grass. Our calculations were quite accurate. We stalked successfully, and
at last, drenched in sweat, found ourselves lying flat within ten yards of a small bush behind
which we could make out dimly the black mass of the largest beast we had seen from across the way.

Although it was now practically dark, we had the game in our own hands. From our low position
the animal, once it fed forward from behind the single small bush, would be plainly outlined
against the sky, and at ten yards I should be able to place my heavy bullets properly, even
in the dark. Therefore, quite easy in our minds, we lay flat and rested. At the end of twenty
seconds the animal began to step forward. I levelled my double gun, ready to press trigger
the moment the shoulder appeared in the clear. Then against the saffron sky emerged the ugly
outline and two upstanding horns of a rhinoceros!

"Faru!" I whispered disgustedly to Memba Sasa. With infinite pains we backed out, then retreated
to a safe distance. It was of course now too late to hunt up the three genuine buffaloes of
this ill-assorted group.

In fact our main necessity was to get through the river jungle before the afterglow had faded
from the sky, leaving us in pitch darkness. I sent Memba Sasa across to pick up the effects
we had left on the opposite ridge, while I myself struck directly across the flat toward camp.

I had plunged ahead thus, for two or three hundred yards, when I was brought up short by the
violent snort of a rhinoceros just off the starboard bow. He was very close, but I was unable
to locate him in the dusk. A cautious retreat and change of course cleared me from him, and
I was about to start on again full speed when once more I was halted by another rhinoceros,
this time dead ahead. Attempting to back away from him, I aroused another in my rear; and as
though this were not enough a fourth opened up to the left.

It was absolutely impossible to see anything ten yards away unless it happened to be silhouetted
against the sky. I backed cautiously toward a little bush, with a vague idea of having something
to dodge around. As the old hunter said when, unarmed, he met the bear, "Anything, even a newspaper,
would have come handy." To my great joy I backed against a conical ant hill four or five feet
high. This I ascended and began anti-rhino demonstrations. I had no time to fool with rhinos,
anyway. I wanted to get through that jungle before the leopards left their family circles.
I hurled clods of earth and opprobrious shouts and epithets in the four directions of my four
obstreperous friends, and I thought I counted four reluctant departures. Then, with considerable
doubt, I descended from my ant hill and hurried down the slope, stumbling over grass hummocks,
colliding with bushes, tangling with vines, but progressing in a gratifyingly rhinoless condition.
Five minutes cautious but rapid feeling my way brought me through the jungle. Shortly after
I raised the campfires; and so got home.

The next two days were repetitions, with slight variation, of this experience, minus the rhinos!
Starting from camp before daylight we were only in time to see the herd-always aggravatingly
on the other side of the cover, no matter which side we selected for our approach, slowly grazing
into the dense jungle. And always they emerged so late and so far away that our very best efforts
failed to get us near them before dark. The margin always so narrow, however, that our hopes
were alive.

On the fourth day, which must be our last in Longeetoto, we found that the herd had shifted
to fresh cover three miles along the base of the mountains. We had no faith in those buffaloes,
but about half-past three we sallied forth dutifully and took position on a hill overlooking
the new hiding place. This consisted of a wide grove of forest trees varied by occasional open
glades and many dense thickets. So eager were we to win what had by now developed into a contest
that I refused to shoot a lioness with a three-quarters-grown cub that appeared within easy
shot from some reeds below us.

Time passed as usual until nearly sunset. Then through an opening into one of the small glades
we caught sight of the herd travelling slowly but steadily from right to left. The glimpse
was only momentary, but it was sufficient to indicate the direction from which we might expect
them to emerge. Therefore we ran at top speed down from our own hill, tore through the jungle
at its foot, and hastily, but with more caution, mounted the opposite slope through the scattered
groves and high grass. We could hear occasionally indications of the buffaloes' slow advance,
and we wanted to gain a good ambuscade above them before they emerged. We found it in the shape
of a small conical hillock perched on the side hill itself, and covered with long grass. It
commanded open vistas through the scattered trees in all directions. And the thicket itself
ended not fifty yards away. No buffalo could possibly come out without our seeing him; and
we had a good half hour of clear daylight before us. It really seemed that luck had changed
at last.

We settled ourselves, unlimbered for action, and got our breath. The buffaloes came nearer
and nearer. At length, through a tiny opening a hundred yards away, we could catch momentary
glimpses of their great black bodies. I thrust forward the safety catch and waited. Finally
a half dozen of the huge beasts were feeding not six feet inside the circle of brush, and only
thirty-odd yards from where we lay.

And they came no farther! I never passed a more heart-breaking half hour of suspense than that
in which little by little the daylight and our hopes faded, while those confounded buffaloes
moved slowly out to the very edge of the thicket, turned, and moved as slowly back again. At
times they came actually into view. We could see their sleek black bodies rolling lazily into
sight and back again, like seals on the surface of water, but never could we make out more
than that. I could have had a dozen good shots, but I could not even guess what I would be
shooting at. And the daylight drained away and the minutes ticked by!

Finally, as I could see no end to this performance save that to which we had been so sickeningly
accustomed in the last four days, I motioned to Memba Sasa, and together we glided like shadows
into the thicket.

There it was already dusk. We sneaked breathlessly through the small openings, desperately
in a hurry, almost painfully on the alert. In the dark shadow sixty yards ahead stood a half
dozen monstrous bodies all facing our way. They suspected the presence of something unusual,
but in the darkness and the stillness they could neither identify it nor locate it exactly.
I dropped on one knee and snatched my prism glasses to my eyes. The magnification enabled me
to see partially into the shadows. Every one of the group carried the sharply inturned points
to the horns: they were all cows!

An instant after I had made out this fact, they stampeded across our face. The whole band thundered
and crashed away.

Desperately we sprang after them, our guns atrail, our bodies stooped low to keep down in the
shadow of the earth. And suddenly, without the slightest warning we plumped around a bush square
on top of the entire herd. It had stopped and was staring back in our direction. I could see
nothing but the wild toss of a hundred pair of horns silhouetted against such of the irregular
saffron afterglow as had not been blocked off by the twigs and branches of the thicket. All
below was indistinguishable blackness.

They stood in a long compact semicircular line thirty yards away, quite still, evidently staring
intently into the dusk to find out what had alarmed them. At any moment they were likely to
make another rush; and if they did so in the direction they were facing, they would most certainly
run over us and trample us down.

Remembering the dusk I thought it likely that the unexpected vivid flash of the gun might turn
them off before they got started. Therefore I raised the big double Holland, aimed below the
line of heads, and was just about to pull trigger when my eye caught the silhouette of a pair
of horns whose tips spread out instead of turning in. This was a bull, and I immediately shifted
the gun in his direction. At the heavy double report, the herd broke wildly to right and left
and thundered away. I confess I was quite relieved.

A low moaning bellow told us that our bull was down. The last few days' experience at being
out late had taught us wisdom so Memba Sasa had brought a lantern. By the light of this, we
discovered our bull down, and all but dead. To make sure, I put a Winchester bullet into his
backbone.

We felt ourselves legitimately open to congratulations, for we had killed this bull from a
practically nocturnal herd, in the face of considerable danger and more than considerable difficulty.
Therefore we shook hands and made appropriate remarks to each other, lacking anybody to make
them for us.

By now it was pitch dark in the thicket, and just about so outside. We had to do a little planning.
I took the Holland gun, gave Memba Sasa the Winchester, and started him for camp after help.
As he carried off the lantern, it was now up to me to make a fire and to make it quickly.

For the past hour a fine drizzle had been falling; and the whole country was wet from previous
rains. I hastily dragged in all the dead wood I could find near, collected what ought to be
good kindling, and started in to light a fire. Now, although I am no Boy Scout, I have lit
several fires in my time. But never when I was at the same time in such a desperate need and
hurry; and in possession of such poor materials. The harder I worked, the worse things sputtered
and smouldered. Probably the relief from the long tension of the buffalo hunt had something
to do with my general piffling inefficiency. If I had taken time to do a proper job once instead
of a halfway job a dozen times, as I should have done and usually would have done, I would
have had a fire in no time. I imagine I was somewhat scared. The lioness and her hulking cub
had smelled the buffalo and were prowling around. I could hear them purring and uttering their
hollow grunts. However, at last the flame held. I fed it sparingly, lit a pipe, placed the
Holland gun next my hand, and resigned myself to waiting. For two hours this was not so bad.
I smoked, and rested up, and dried out before my little fire. Then my fuel began to run low.
I arose and tore down all the remaining dead limbs within the circle of my firelight. These
were not many, so I stepped out into the darkness for more. Immediately I was warned back by
a deep growl!

The next hour was not one of such solid comfort. I began to get parsimonious about my supply
of firewood, trying to use it in such a manner as to keep up an adequate blaze, and at the
same time to make it last until Memba Sasa should return with the men. I did it, though I got
down to charred ends before I was through. The old lioness hung around within a hundred yards
or so below, and the buffalo herd, returning, filed by above, pausing to stamp and snort at
the fire. Finally, about nine o'clock, I made out two lanterns bobbing up to me through the trees.

The last incident to be selected from many experiences with buffaloes took place in quite an
unvisited district over the mountains from the Loieta Plains. For nearly two months we had
ranged far in this lovely upland country of groves and valleys and wide grass bottoms between
hills, hunting for greater kudu. One day we all set out from camp to sweep the base of a range
of low mountains in search of a good specimen of Newman's hartebeeste, or anything else especially
desirable that might happen along. The gentle slope from the mountains was of grass cut by
numerous small ravines grown with low brush. This brush was so scanty as to afford but indifferent
cover for anything larger than one of the small grass antelopes. All the ravines led down a
mile or so to a deeper main watercourse paralleling the mountains. Some water stood in the
pools here; and the cover was a little more dense, but consisted at best of but a "stringer"
no wider than a city street. Flanking the stringer were scattered high bushes for a few yards;
and then the open country. Altogether as unlikely a place for the shade-loving buffalo as could
be imagined.

We collected our Newmanii after rather a long hunt; and just at noon, when the heat of the
day began to come on, we wandered down to the water for lunch. Here we found a good clear pool
and drank. The boys began to make themselves comfortable by the water's edge; C. went to superintend
the disposal of Billy's mule. Billy had sat down beneath the shade of the most hospitable of
the bushes a hundred feet or so away, and was taking off her veil and gloves. I was carrying
to her the lunch box. When I was about halfway from where the boys were drinking at the stream's
edge to where she sat, a buffalo bull thrust his head from the bushes just the other side of
her. His head was thrust up and forward, as he reached after some of the higher tender leaves
on the bushes. So close was he that I could see plainly the drops glistening on his moist black
nose. As for Billy, peacefully unwinding her long veil, she seemed fairly under the beast.

I had no weapon, and any moment might bring some word or some noise that would catch the animal's
attention. Fortunately, for the moment, every one, relaxed in the first reaction after the
long morning, was keeping silence. If the buffalo should look down, he could not fail to see
Billy; and if he saw her, he would indubitably kill her.

As has been explained, snapping the fingers does not seem to reach the attention of wild animals.
Therefore I snapped mine as vigorously as I knew how. Billy heard, looked toward me, turned
in the direction of my gaze, and slowly sank prone against the ground. Some of the boys heard
me also, and I could see the heads of all of them popping up in interest from the banks of
the stream. My cautious but very frantic signals to lie low were understood: the heads dropped
back. Mavrouki, a rifle in each hand, came worming his way toward me through the grass with
incredible quickness and agility. A moment later he thrust the 405 Winchester into my hand.

This weapon, powerful and accurate as it is, the best of the lot for lions, was altogether
too small for the tremendous brute before me. However, the Holland was in camp; and I was very
glad in the circumstances to get this. The buffalo had browsed slowly forward into the clear,
and was now taking the top off a small bush, and facing half away from us. It seemed to me
quite the largest buffalo I had ever seen, though I should have been willing to have acknowledged
at that moment that the circumstances had something to do with the estimate. However, later
we found that the impression was correct. He was verily a giant of his kind. His height at
the shoulder was five feet ten inches; and his build was even chunkier than the usual solid
robust pattern of buffaloes. For example, his neck, just back of the horns, was two feet eight
inches thick! He weighed not far from three thousand pounds.

Once the rifle was in my hands I lost the feeling of utter helplessness, and began to plan
the best way out of the situation. As yet the beast was totally unconscious of our presence;
but that could not continue long. There were too many men about. A chance current of air from
any one of a half dozen directions could not fail to give him the scent. Then there would be
lively doings. It was exceedingly desirable to deliver the first careful blow of the engagement
while he was unaware. On the other hand, his present attitude-half away from me-was not favourable;
nor, in my exposed position dared I move to a better place. There seemed nothing better than
to wait; so wait we did. Mavrouki crouched close at my elbow, showing not the faintest indication
of a desire to be anywhere but there.

The buffalo browsed for a minute or so; then swung slowly broadside on. So massive and low
were the bosses of his horns that the brain shot was impossible. Therefore I aimed low in the
shoulder. The shock of the bullet actually knocked that great beast off his feet! My respect
for the hitting power of the 405 went up several notches. The only trouble was that he rebounded
like a rubber ball. Without an instant's hesitation I gave him another in the same place. This
brought him to his knees for an instant; but he was immediately afoot again. Billy had, with
great good sense and courage, continued to lie absolutely flat within a few yards of the beast,
Mavrouki and I had kept low, and C. and the men were out of sight. The buffalo therefore had
seen none of his antagonists. He charged at a guess, and guessed wrong. As he went by I fired
at his head, and, as we found out afterward, broke his jaw. A moment later C.'s great elephant
gun roared from somewhere behind me as he fired by a glimpse through the brush at the charging
animal. It was an excellent snapshot, and landed back of the ribs.

When the buffalo broke through the screen of brush I dashed after him, for I thought our only
chance of avoiding danger lay in keeping close track of where that buffalo went. On the other
side the bushes I found a little grassy opening, and then a small but dense thicket into which
the animal had plunged. To my left, C. was running up, followed closely by Billy, who, with
her usual good sense, had figured out the safest place to be immediately back of the guns.
We came together at the thicket's edge.

The animal's movements could be plainly followed by the sound of his crashing. We heard him
dash away some distance, pause, circle a bit to the right, and then come rushing back in our
direction. Stooping low we peered into the darkness of the thicket. Suddenly we saw him, not
a dozen yards away. He was still afoot, but very slow. I dropped the magazine of five shots
into him as fast as I could work the lever. We later found all the bullet-holes in a spot as
big as the palm of your hand. These successive heavy blows delivered all in the same place
were too much for even his tremendous vitality; and slowly he sank on his side.

XXVI. JUJA

Most people have heard of Juja, the modern dwelling in the heart of an African wilderness,
belonging to our own countryman, Mr. W. N. McMillan. If most people are as I was before I saw
the place, they have considerable curiosity and no knowledge of what it is and how it looks.

We came to Juja at the end of a wide circle that had lasted three months, and was now bringing
us back again toward our starting point. For five days we had been camped on top a high bluff
at the junction of two rivers. When we moved we dropped down the bluff, crossed one river,
and, after some searching, found our way up the other bluff. There we were on a vast plain
bounded by mountains thirty miles away. A large white and unexpected sign told us we were on
Juja Farm, and warned us that we should be careful of our fires in the long grass.

For an hour we plodded slowly along. Herds of zebra and hartebeeste drew aside before us, dark
heavy wildebeeste-the gnu-stood in groups at a safe distance their heads low, looking exactly
like our vanished bison; ghostlike bands of Thompson's gazelles glided away with their smooth
regular motion. On the vast and treeless plains single small objects standing above the general
uniformity took an exaggerated value; so that, before it emerged from the swirling heat mirage,
a solitary tree might easily be mistaken for a group of buildings or a grove. Finally, however,
we raised above the horizon a dark straight clump of trees. It danced in the mirage, and blurred
and changed form, but it persisted. A strange patch of white kept appearing and disappearing
again. This resolved itself into the side of a building. A spider-legged water tower appeared
above the trees.

Gradually we drew up on these. A bit later we swung to the right around a close wire fence
ten feet high, passed through a gate, and rode down a long slanting avenue of young trees.
Between the trees were century plants and flowers, and a clipped border ran before them. The
avenue ended before a low white bungalow, with shady verandas all about it, and vines. A formal
flower garden lay immediately about it, and a very tall flag pole had been planted in front.
A hundred feet away the garden dropped off steep to one of the deep river canyons.

Two white-robed Somalis appeared on the veranda to inform us that McMillan was off on safari.
Our own boys approaching at this moment, we thereupon led them past the house, down another
long avenue of trees and flowers, out into an open space with many buildings at its edges,
past extensive stables, and through another gate to the open plains once more. Here we made
camp. After lunch we went back to explore.

Juja is situated on the top of a high bluff overlooking a river. In all directions are tremendous
grass plains. Donya Sabuk-the Mountain of Buffaloes-is the only landmark nearer than the dim
mountains beyond the edge of the world, and that is a day's journey away. A rectangle of possibly
forty acres has been enclosed on three sides by animal-proof wire fence. The fourth side is
the edge of the bluff. Within this enclosure have been planted many trees, now of good size;
a pretty garden with abundance of flowers, ornamental shrubs, a sundial, and lawns. In the
river bottom land below the bluff is a very extensive vegetable and fruit garden, with cornfields,
and experimental plantings of rubber, and the like. For the use of the people of Juja here
are raised a great variety and abundance of vegetables, fruits, and grains.

Juja House, as has been said, stands back a hundred feet from a bend in the bluffs that permits
a view straight up the river valley. It is surrounded by gardens and trees, and occupies all
one end of the enclosed rectangle. Farther down and perched on the edge of a bluff, are several
pretty little bungalows for the accommodation of the superintendent and his family, for the
bachelors' mess, for the farm offices and dispensary, and for the dairy room, the ice-plant
and the post-office and telegraph station. Back of and inland from this row on the edge of
the cliff, and scattered widely in open space, are a large store stocked with everything on
earth, the Somali quarters of low whitewashed buildings, the cattle corrals, the stables, wild
animal cages, granaries, blacksmith and carpenter shops, wagon sheds and the like. Outside
the enclosure, and a half mile away, are the conical grass huts that make up the native village.
Below the cliff is a concrete dam, an electric light plant, a pumping plant and a few details
of the sort.

Such is a relief map of Juja proper. Four miles away, and on another river, is Long Juja, a
strictly utilitarian affair where grow ostriches, cattle, sheep, and various irrigated things
in the bottom land. All the rest of the farm, or estate, or whatever one would call it, is
open plain, with here and there a river bottom, or a trifle of brush cover. But never enough
to constitute more than an isolated and lonesome patch.

Before leaving London we had received from McMillan earnest assurances that he kept open house,
and that we must take advantage of his hospitality should we happen his way. Therefore when
one of his white-robed Somalis approached us to inquire respectfully as to what we wanted for
dinner, we yielded weakly to the temptation and told him. Then we marched us boldly to the
house and took possession.

All around the house ran a veranda, shaded bamboo curtains and vines, furnished with the luxurious
teakwood chairs of the tropics of which you can so extend the arms as to form two comfortable
and elevated rests for your feet. Horns of various animals ornamented the walls. A megaphone
and a huge terrestrial telescope on a tripod stood in one corner. Through the latter one could
examine at favourable times the herds of game on the plains.

And inside-mind you, we were fresh from three months in the wilderness-we found rugs, pictures,
wall paper, a pianola, many books, baths, beautiful white bedrooms with snowy mosquito curtains,
electric lights, running water, and above all an atmosphere of homelike comfort. We fell into
easy chairs, and seized books and magazines. The Somalis brought us trays with iced and fizzy
drinks in thin glasses. When the time came we crossed the veranda in the rear to enter a spacious
separate dining-room. The table was white with napery, glittering with silver and glass, bright
with flowers. We ate leisurely of a well-served course dinner, ending with black coffee, shelled
nuts, and candied fruit. Replete and satisfied we strolled back across the veranda to the main
house. F. raised his hand.

"Hark!" he admonished us.

We held still. From the velvet darkness came the hurried petulant barking of zebra; three hyenas
howled.

XXVII. A VISIT AT JUJA

Next day we left all this; and continued our march. About a month later, however, we encountered
McMillan himself in Nairobi. I was just out from a very hard trip to the coast-Billy not with
me-and wanted nothing so much as a few days' rest. McMillan's cordiality was not to be denied,
however, so the very next day found us tucking ourselves into a buckboard behind four white
Abyssinian mules. McMillan, some Somalis and Captain Duirs came along in another similar rig.
Our driver was a Hottentot half-caste from South Africa. He had a flat face, a yellow skin,
a quiet manner, and a competent hand. His name was Michael. At his feet crouched a small Kikuyu
savage, in blanket ear ornaments and all the fixings, armed with a long lashed whip and raucous
voice. At any given moment he was likely to hop out over the moving wheel, run forward, bat
the off leading mule, and hop back again, all with the most extraordinary agility. He likewise
hurled what sounded like very opprobrious epithets at such natives as did not get out the way
quickly enough to suit him. The expression of his face, which was that of a person steeped
in woe, never changed.

We rattled out of Nairobi at a great pace, and swung into the Fort Hall Road. This famous thoroughfare,
one of the three or four made roads in all East Africa, is about sixty miles long. It is a
strategic necessity but is used by thousands of natives on their way to see the sights of the
great metropolis. As during the season there is no water for much of the distance, a great
many pay for their curiosity with their lives. The road skirts the base of the hills, winding
in and out of shallow canyons and about the edges of rounded hills. To the right one can see
far out across the Athi Plains.

We met an almost unbroken succession of people. There were long pack trains of women, quite
cheerful, bent over under the weight of firewood or vegetables, many with babies tucked away
in the folds of their garments; mincing dandified warriors with poodle-dog hair, skewers in
their ears, their jewelery brought to a high polish a fatuous expression of self-satisfaction
on their faces, carrying each a section of sugarcane which they now used as a staff but would
later devour for lunch; bearers, under convoy of straight soldierly red-sashed Sudanese, transporting
Government goods; wild-eyed staring shenzis from the forest, with matted hair and goatskin
garments, looking ready to bolt aside at the slightest alarm; coveys of marvellous and giggling
damsels, their fine-grained skin anointed and shining with red oil, strung with beads and shells,
very coquettish and sure of their feminine charm; naked small boys marching solemnly like their
elders; camel trains from far-off Abyssinia or Somaliland under convoy of white-clad turbaned
grave men of beautiful features; donkey safaris in charge of dirty degenerate looking East
Indians carrying trade goods to some distant post-all these and many more, going one way or
the other, drew one side, at the sight of our white faces, to let us pass.

About two o'clock we suddenly turned off from the road, apparently quite at random, down the
long grassy interminable incline that dipped slowly down and slowly up again over great distance
to form the Athi Plains. Along the road, with its endless swarm of humanity, we had seen no
game, but after a half mile it began to appear. We encountered herds of zebra, kongoni, wildebeeste,
and "Tommies" standing about or grazing, sometimes almost within range from the moving buckboard.
After a time we made out the trees and water tower of Juja ahead; and by four o'clock had turned
into the avenue of trees. Our approach had been seen. Tea was ready, and a great and hospitable
table of bottles, ice, and siphons.

The next morning we inspected the stables, built of stone in a hollow square, like a fort,
with box stalls opening directly into the courtyard and screened carefully against the deadly
flies. The horses, beautiful creatures, were led forth each by his proud and anxious syce.
We tried them all, and selected our mounts for the time of our stay. The syces were small black
men, lean and well formed, accustomed to running afoot wherever their charges went, at walk,
lope or gallop. Thus in a day they covered incredible distances over all sorts of country;
but were always at hand to seize the bridle reins when the master wished to dismount. Like
the rickshaw runners in Nairobi, they wore their hair clipped close around their bullet heads
and seemed to have developed into a small compact hard type of their own. They ate and slept
with their horses.

Just outside the courtyard of the stables a little barred window had been cut through. Near
this were congregated a number of Kikuyu savages wrapped in their blankets, receiving each
in turn a portion of cracked corn from a dusty white man behind the bars. They were a solemn,
unsmiling, strange type of savage, and they performed all the manual work within the enclosure,
squatting on their heels and pulling methodically but slowly at the weeds, digging with their
pangas, carrying loads: to and fro, or solemnly pushing a lawn mower, blankets wrapped shamelessly
about their necks. They were harried about by a red-faced beefy English gardener with a marvellous
vocabulary of several native languages and a short hippo-hide whip. He talked himself absolutely
purple in the face without, as far as my observation went, penetrating an inch below the surface.
The Kikuyus went right on doing what they were already doing in exactly the same manner. Probably
the purple Englishman was satisfied with that, but I am sure apoplexy of either the heat or
thundering variety has him by now.

Before the store building squatted another group of savages. Perhaps in time one of the lot
expected to buy something; or possibly they just sat. Nobody but a storekeeper would ever have
time to find out. Such is the native way. The storekeeper in this case was named John. Besides
being storekeeper, he had charge of the issuing of all the house supplies, and those for the
white men's mess; he must do all the worrying about the upper class natives; he must occasionally
kill a buck for the meat supply; and he must be prepared to take out any stray tenderfeet that
happen along during McMillan's absence, and persuade them that they are mighty hunters. His
domain was a fascinating place, for it contained everything from pianola parts to patent washstands.
The next best equipped place of the kind I know of is the property room of a moving picture
company.

We went to mail a letter, and found the postmaster to be a gentle-voiced, polite little Hindu,
who greeted us smilingly, and attempted to conceal a work of art. We insisted; whereupon he
deprecatingly drew forth a copy of a newspaper cartoon having to do with Colonel Roosevelt's
visit. It was copied with mathematical exactness, and highly coloured in a manner to throw
into profound melancholy the chauffeur of a coloured supplement press. We admired and praised;
whereupon, still shyly, he produced more, and yet again more copies of the same cartoon. When
we left, he was reseating himself to the painstaking valueless labour with which he filled
his days. Three times a week such mail as Juja gets comes in via native runner. We saw the
latter, a splendid figure, almost naked, loping easily, his little bundle held before him.

Down past the office and dispensary we strolled, by the comfortable, airy, white man's clubhouse.
The headman of the native population passed us with a dignified salute; a fine upstanding deep-chested
man, with a lofty air of fierce pride. He and his handful of soldiers alone of the natives,
except the Somalis and syces, dwelt within the compound in a group of huts near the gate. There
when off duty they might be seen polishing their arms, or chatting with their women. The latter
were ladies of leisure, with wonderful chignons, much jewelery, and patterned Mericani wrapped
gracefully about their pretty figures.

By the time we had seen all these things it was noon. We ate lunch. The various members of
the party decided to do various things. I elected to go out with McMillan while he killed a
wildebeeste, and I am very glad I did. It was a most astonishing performance.

You must imagine us driving out the gate in a buckboard behind four small but lively white
Abyssinian mules. In the front seat were Michael, the Hottentot driver, and McMillan's Somali
gunbearer. In the rear seat were McMillan and myself, while a small black syce perched precariously
behind. Our rifles rested in a sling before us. So we jogged out on the road to Long Juju,
examining with a critical eye the herds of game to right and left of us. The latter examined
us, apparently, with an eye as critical. Finally, in a herd of zebra, we espied a lone wildebeeste.

The wildebeeste is the Jekyll and Hyde of the animal kingdom. His usual and familiar habit
is that of a heavy, sluggish animal, like our vanished bison. He stands solid and inert, his
head down; he plods slowly forward in single file, his horns swinging, each foot planted deliberately.
In short, he is the personification of dignity, solid respectability, gravity of demeanour.
But then all of a sudden, at any small interruption, he becomes the giddiest of created beings.
Up goes his head and tail, he buck jumps, cavorts, gambols, kicks up his heels, bounds stiff-legged,
and generally performs like an irresponsible infant. To see a whole herd at once of these grave
and reverend seigneurs suddenly blow up into such light-headed capers goes far to destroy one's
faith in the stability of institutions.

Also the wildebeeste is not misnamed. He is a conservative, and he sees no particular reason
for allowing his curiosity to interfere with his preconceived beliefs. The latter are distrustful.
Therefore he and his females and his young-I should say small-depart when one is yet far away.
I say small, because I do not believe that any wildebeeste is ever young. They do not resemble
calves, but are exact replicas of the big ones, just as Niobe's daughters are in nothing childlike,
but merely smaller women.

When we caught sight of this lone wildebeeste among the zebra, I naturally expected that we
would pull up the buckboard, descend, and approach to within some sort of long range. Then
we would open fire. Barring luck, the wildebeeste would thereupon depart "wilder and beestier
than ever," as John McCutcheon has it. Not at all! Michael, the Hottentot, turned the buckboard
off the road, headed toward the distant quarry, and charged at full speed! Over stones we went
that sent us feet into the air, down and out of shallow gullies that seemed as though they
would jerk the pole from the vehicle with a grand rattlety-bang, every one hanging on for his
life. I was entirely occupied with the state of my spinal column and the retention of my teeth,
but McMillan must have been keeping his eye on the game. One peculiarity of the wildebeeste
is that he cannot see behind him, and another is that he is curious. It would not require a
very large bump of curiosity, however, to cause any animal to wonder what all the row was about.
There could be no doubt that this animal would sooner or later stop for an instant to look
for the purpose of seeing what was up in jungleland; and just before doing so he would, for
a few steps, slow down from a gallop to a trot. McMillan was watching for this symptom.

"Now!" he yelled, when he saw it.

Instantly Michael threw his weight into the right rein and against the brake. We swerved so
violently to the right and stopped so suddenly that I nearly landed on the broad prairies.
The manoeuvre fetched us up broadside. The small black syce-and heaven knows how HE had managed
to hang on-darted to the heads of the leading mules. At the same moment the wildebeeste turned,
and stopped; but even before he had swung his head, McMillan had fired. It was extraordinarily
good, quick work, the way he picked up the long range from the spurts of dust where the bullets
hit. At the third or fourth shots he landed one. Immediately the beast was off again at a tearing
run pursued by a rapid fusillade from the remaining shots. Then with a violent jerk and a wild
yell we were off again.

This time, since the animal was wounded, he made for rougher country. And everywhere that wildebeeste
went we too were sure to go. We hit or shaved boulders that ought to have smashed a wheel,
we tore through thick brush regardless. Twice we charged unhesitatingly over apparent precipices.
I do not know the name of the manufacturer of the buckboard. If I did, I should certainly recommend
it here. Twice more we swerved to our broadside and cut loose the port batteries. Once more
McMillan hit. Then, on the fourth "run," we gained perceptibly. The beast was weakening. When
he came to a stumbling halt we were not over a hundred yards from him, and McMillan easily
brought him down. We had chased him four or five miles, and McMillan had fired nineteen shots,
of which two had hit. The rifle practice throughout had been remarkably good, and a treat to
watch. Personally, besides the fun of attending the show, I got a mighty good afternoon's exercise.

We loaded the game aboard and jogged slowly back to the house, for the mules were pretty tired.
We found a neighbour, Mr. Heatley of Kamiti Ranch who had "dropped down" twelve miles to see
us. On account of a theft McMillan now had all the Somalis assembled for interrogation on the
side verandas. The interrogation did not amount to much, but while it was going on the Sudanese
headman and his askaris were quietly searching the boys' quarters. After a time they appeared.
The suspected men had concealed nothing, but the searchers brought with them three of McMillan's
shirts which they had found among the effects of another, and entirely unsuspected, boy named
Abadie.

"How is this, Abadie?" demanded McMillan sternly.

Abadie hesitated. Then he evidently reflected that there is slight use in having a deity unless
one makes use of him.

"Bwana," said he with an engaging air of belief and candour, "God must have put them there!"

That evening we planned a "general day" for the morrow. We took boys and buckboards and saddle-horses,
beaters, shotguns, rifles, and revolvers, and we sallied forth for a grand and joyous time.
The day from a sporting standpoint was entirely successful, the bag consisting of two waterbuck,
a zebra, a big wart-hog, six hares, and six grouse. Personally I was a little hazy and uncertain.
By evening the fever had me, and though I stayed at Juja for six days longer, it was as a patient
to McMillan's unfailing kindness rather than as a participant in the life of the farm.

XXVIII. A RESIDENCE AT JUJA

A short time later, at about middle of the rainy season, McMillan left for a little fishing
off Catalina Island. The latter is some fourteen thousand miles of travel from Juja. Before
leaving on this flying trip, McMillan made us a gorgeous offer.

"If," said he, "you want to go it alone, you can go out and use Juja as long as you please."

This offer, or, rather, a portion of it, you may be sure, we accepted promptly. McMillan wanted
in addition to leave us his servants; but to this we would not agree. Memba Sasa and Mahomet
were, of course, members of our permanent staff. In addition to them we picked up another house
boy, named Leyeye. He was a Masai. These proud and aristocratic savages rarely condescend to
take service of any sort except as herders; but when they do they prove to be unusually efficient
and intelligent. We had also a Somali cook, and six ordinary bearers to do general labour.
This small safari we started off afoot for Juja. The whole lot cost us about what we would
pay one Chinaman on the Pacific Coast.

Next day we ourselves drove out in the mule buckboard. The rains were on, and the road was
very muddy. After the vital tropical fashion the grass was springing tall in the natural meadows
and on the plains and the brief-lived white lilies and an abundance of ground flowers washed
the slopes with colour. Beneath the grass covering, the entire surface of the ground was an
inch or so deep in water. This was always most surprising, for, apparently, the whole country
should have been high and dry. Certainly its level was that of a plateau rather than a bottom
land; so that one seemed always to be travelling at an elevation. Nevertheless walking or riding
we were continually splashing, and the only dry going outside the occasional rare "islands"
of the slight undulations we found near the very edge of the bluffs above the rivers. There
the drainage seemed sufficient to carry off the excess. Elsewhere the hardpan or bedrock must
have been exceptionally level and near the top of the ground.

Nothing nor nobody seemed to mind this much. The game splashed around merrily, cropping at
the tall grass; the natives slopped indifferently, and we ourselves soon became so accustomed
to two or three inches of water and wet feet that after the first two days we never gave those
phenomena a thought.

The world above at this season of the year was magnificent. The African heavens are always
widely spacious, but now they seemed to have blown even vaster than usual. In the sweep of
the vision four or five heavy black rainstorms would be trailing their skirts across an infinitely
remote prospect; between them white piled scud clouds and cumuli sailed like ships; and from
them reflected so brilliant a sunlight and behind all showed so dazzling a blue sky that the
general impression was of a fine day. The rainstorms' gray veils slanted; tremendous patches
of shadow lay becalmed on the plains; bright sunshine poured abundantly its warmth and yellow
light.

So brilliant with both direct and reflected light and the values of contrast were the heavens,
that when one happened to stand within one of the great shadows it became extraordinarily difficult
to make out game on the plains. The pupils contracted to the brilliancy overhead. Often too,
near sunset, the atmosphere would become suffused with a lurid saffron light that made everything
unreal and ghastly. At such times the game seemed puzzled by the unusual aspect of things.
The zebra especially would bark and stamp and stand their ground, and even come nearer out
of sheer curiosity. I have thus been within fifty yards of them, right out in the open. At
such times it was as though the sky, instead of rounding over in the usual shape, had been
thrust up at the western horizon to the same incredible height as the zenith. In the space
thus created were piled great clouds through which slanted broad bands of yellow light on a
diminished world.

It rained with great suddenness on our devoted heads, and with a curious effect of metamorphoslng
the entire universe. One moment all was clear and smiling, with the trifling exception of distant
rain squalls that amounted to nothing in the general scheme. Then the horizon turned black,
and with incredible swiftness the dark clouds materialized out of nothing, rolled high to the
zenith like a wave, blotted out every last vestige of brightness. A heavy oppressive still
darkness breathed over the earth. Then through the silence came a faraway soft drumming sound,
barely to be heard. As we bent our ears to catch this it grew louder and louder, approaching
at breakneck speed like a troop of horses. It became a roar fairly terrifying in its mercilessly
continued crescendo. At last the deluge of rain burst actually as a relief.

And what a deluge! Facing it we found difficulty in breathing. In six seconds every stitch
we wore was soaked through, and only the notebook, tobacco, and matches bestowed craftily in
the crown of the cork helmet escaped. The visible world was dark and contracted. It seemed
that nothing but rain could anywhere exist; as though this storm must fill all space to the
horizon and beyond. Then it swept on and we found ourselves steaming in bright sunlight. The
dry flat prairie (if this was the first shower for some time) had suddenly become a lake from
the surface of which projected bushes and clumps of grass. Every game trail had become the
water course of a swiftly running brook.

But most pleasant were the evenings at Juja, when, safe indoors, we sat and listened to the
charge of the storm's wild horsemen, and the thunder of its drumming on the tin roof. The onslaughts
were as fierce and abrupt as those of Cossacks, and swept by as suddenly. The roar died away
in the distance, and we could then hear the steady musical dripping of waters.

Pleasant it was also to walk out from Juja in almost any direction. The compound, and the buildings
and trees within it, soon dwindled in the distances of the great flat plain. Herds of game
were always in sight, grazing, lying down, staring in our direction. The animals were incredibly
numerous. Some days they were fairly tame, and others exceedingly wild, without any rhyme or
reason. This shyness or the reverse seemed not to be individual to one herd; but to be practically
universal. On a "wild day" everything was wild from the Lone Tree to Long Juju. It would be
manifestly absurd to guess at the reason. Possibly the cause might be atmospheric or electrical;
possibly days of nervousness might follow nights of unusual activity by the lions; one could
invent a dozen possibilities. Perhaps the kongonis decided it.

At Juja we got to know the kongonis even better than we had before. They are comical, quizzical
beasts, with long-nosed humorous faces, a singularly awkward construction, a shambling gait;
but with altruistic dispositions and an ability to get over the ground at an extraordinary
speed. Every move is a joke; their expression is always one of grieved but humorous astonishment.
They quirk their heads sidewise or down and stare at an intruder with the most comical air
of skeptical wonder. "Well, look who's here!" says the expression.

"Pooh!" says the kongoni himself, after a good look, "pooh! pooh!" with the most insulting
inflection.

He is very numerous and very alert. One or more of a grazing herd are always perched as sentinels
atop ant hills or similar small elevations. On the slightest intimation of danger they give
the alarm, whereupon the herd makes off at once, gathering in all other miscellaneous game
that may be in the vicinity. They will go out of their way to do this, as every African hunter
knows. It immensely complicates matters; for the sportsman must not only stalk his quarry,
but he must stalk each and every kongoni as well. Once, in another part of the country, C.
and I saw a kongoni leave a band of its own species far down to our right, gallop toward us
and across our front, pick up a herd of zebra we were trying to approach and make off with
them to safety. We cursed that kongoni, but we admired him, for he deliberately ran out of
safety into danger for the purpose of warning those zebra. So seriously do they take their
job as policemen of the plains that it is very common for a lazy single animal of another species
to graze in a herd of kongonis simply for the sake of protection. Wildebeeste are much given
to this.

The kongoni progresses by a series of long high bounds. While in midair he half tucks up his
feet, which gives him the appearance of an automatic toy. This gait looks deliberate, but is
really quite fast, as the mounted sportsman discovers when he enters upon a vain pursuit. If
the horse is an especially good one, so that the kongoni feels himself a trifle closely pressed,
the latter stops bouncing and runs. Then he simply fades away into the distance.

These beasts are also given to chasing each other all over the landscape. When a gentleman
kongoni conceives a dislike for another gentleman kongoni, he makes no concealment of his emotions,
but marches up and prods him in the ribs. The ensuing battle is usually fought out very stubbornly
with much feinting, parrying, clashing of the lyre-shaped horns; and a good deal of crafty
circling for a favourable opening. As far as I was ever able to see not much real damage is
inflicted; though I could well imagine that only skilful fence prevented unpleasant punctures
in soft spots. After a time one or the other feels himself weakening. He dashes strongly in,
wheels while his antagonist is braced, and makes off. The enemy pursues. Then, apparently,
the chase is on for the rest of the day. The victor is not content merely to drive his rival
out of the country; he wants to catch him. On that object he is very intent; about as intent
as the other fellow is of getting away. I have seen two such beasts almost run over a dozen
men who were making no effort to keep out of sight. Long after honour is satisfied, indeed,
as it seems to me, long after the dictates of common decency would call a halt that persistent
and single-minded pursuer bounds solemnly and conscientiously along in the wake of his disgusted
rival.

These and the zebra and wildebeeste were at Juja the most conspicuous game animals. If they
could not for the moment be seen from the veranda of the house itself, a short walk to the
gate was sufficient to reveal many hundreds. Among them fed herds of the smaller Thompson's
gazelle, or "Tommies." So small were they that only their heads could be seen above the tall
grass as they ran.

To me there was never-ending fascination in walking out over those sloppy plains in search
of adventure, and in the pleasure of watching the beasts. Scarcely less fascination haunted
a stroll down the river canyons or along the tops of the bluffs above them. Here the country
was broken into rocky escarpments in which were caves; was clothed with low and scattered brush;
or was wooded in the bottom lands. Naturally an entirely different set of animals dwelt here;
and in addition one was often treated to the romance of surprise. Herds of impalla haunted
these edges; graceful creatures, trim and pretty with wide horns and beautiful glowing red
coats. Sometimes they would venture out on the open plains, in a very compact band, ready to
break back for cover at the slightest alarm; but generally fed inside the fringe of bushes.
Once from the bluff above I saw a beautiful herd of over a hundred pacing decorously along
the river bottom below me, single file, the oldest buck at the head, and the miscellaneous
small buck bringing up the rear after the does. I shouted at them. Immediately the solemn procession
broke. They began to leap, springing straight up into the air as though from a released spring,
or diving forward and upward in long graceful bounds like dolphins at sea. These leaps were
incredible. Several even jumped quite over the backs of others; and all without a semblance
of effort.

Along the fringe of the river, too, dwelt the lordly waterbuck, magnificent and proud as the
stags of Landseer; and the tiny steinbuck and duiker, no bigger than jack-rabbits, but perfect
little deer for all that. The incredibly plebeian wart-hog rooted about; and down in the bottom
lands were leopards. I knocked one off a rock one day. In the river itself dwelt hippopotamuses
and crocodiles. One of the latter dragged under a yearling calf just below the house itself,
and while we were there. Besides these were of course such affairs as hyenas and jackals, and
great numbers of small game: hares, ducks, three kinds of grouse, guinea fowl, pigeons, quail,
and jack snipe, not to speak of a variety of plover.

In the drier extents of dry grass atop the bluffs the dance birds were especially numerous;
each with his dance ring nicely trodden out, each leaping and falling rhythmically for hours
at a time. Toward sunset great flights of sand grouse swarmed across the yellowing sky from
some distant feeding ground.

Near Juja I had one of the three experiences that especially impressed on my mind the abundance
of African big game. I had stalked and wounded a wildebeeste across the N'derogo River, and
had followed him a mile or so afoot, hoping to be able to put in a finishing shot. As sometimes
happens the animal rather gained strength as time went on; so I signalled for my horse, mounted,
and started out to run him down. After a quarter mile we began to pick up the game herds. Those
directly in our course ran straight away; other herds on either side, seeing them running,
came across in a slant to join them. Inside of a half mile I was driving before me literally
thousands of head of game of several varieties. The dust rose in a choking cloud that fairly
obscured the landscape, and the drumming of the hooves was like the stampeding of cattle. It
was a wonderful sight.

On the plains of Juja, also, I had my one real African Adventure, when, as in the Sunday Supplements,
I Stared Death in the Face-also everlasting disgrace and much derision. We were just returning
to the farm after an afternoon's walk, and as we approached I began to look around for much
needed meat. A herd of zebra stood in sight; so leaving Memba Sasa I began to stalk them. My
usual weapon for this sort of thing was the Springfield, for which I carried extra cartridges
in my belt. On this occasion, however, I traded with Memba Sasa for the 405, simply for the
purpose of trying it out. At a few paces over three hundred yards I landed on the zebra, but
did not knock him down. Then I set out to follow. It was a long job and took me far, for again
and again he joined other zebra, when, of course, I could not tell one from t'other. My only
expedient was to frighten the lot. There upon the uninjured ones would distance the one that
was hurt. The latter kept his eye on me. Whenever I managed to get within reasonable distance,
I put up the rear sight of the 405, and let drive. I heard every shot hit, and after each hit
was more than a little astonished to see the zebra still on his feet, and still able to wobble
on.* The fifth shot emptied the rifle. As I had no more cartridges for this arm, I approached
to within sixty yards, and stopped to wait either for him to fall, or for a very distant Memba
Sasa to come up with more cartridges. Then the zebra waked up. He put his ears back and came
straight in my direction. This rush I took for a blind death flurry, and so dodged off to one
side, thinking that he would of course go by me. Not at all! He swung around on the circle
too, and made after me. I could see that his ears were back, eyes blazing, and his teeth snapping
with rage. It was a malicious charge, and, as such, with due deliberation, I offer it to sportsman's
annals. As I had no more cartridges I ran away as fast as I could go. Although I made rather
better time than ever I had attained to before, it was evident that the zebra would catch me;
and as the brute could paw, bite, and kick, I did not much care for the situation. Just as
he had nearly reached me, and as I was trying to figure on what kind of a fight I could put
up with a clubbed rifle barrel, he fell dead. To be killed by a lion is at least a dignified
death; but to be mauled by a zebra!

I am sorry I did not try out this heavy-calibred rifle oftener at long range. It was a marvellously
effective weapon at close quarters; but I have an idea-but only a tentative idea-that above
three hundred yards its velocity is so reduced by air resistance against the big blunt bullet
as greatly to impair its hitting powers.

We generally got back from our walks or rides just before dark to find the house gleaming with
lights, a hot bath ready, and a tray of good wet drinks next the easy chairs. There, after
changing our clothes, we sipped and read the papers-two months off the press, but fresh arrived
for all that-until a white-robed, dignified figure appeared in the doorway to inform us that
dinner was ready. Our ways were civilized and soft, then, until the morrow when once again,
perhaps, we went forth into the African wilderness.

Juja is a place of startling contrasts-of naked savages clipping formal hedges, of windows
opening from a perfectly appointed brilliantly lighted dining-room to a night whence float
the lost wails of hyenas or the deep grumbling of lions, of cushioned luxurious chairs in reach
of many books, but looking out on hills where the game herds feed, of comfortable beds with
fine linen and soft blankets where one lies listening to the voices of an African night, or
the weirder minor house noises whose origin and nature no man could guess, of tennis courts
and summer houses, of lawns and hammocks, of sundials and clipped hedges separated only by
a few strands of woven wire from fields identical with those in which roamed the cave men of
the Pleistocene. But to Billy was reserved the most ridiculous contrast of all. Her bedroom
opened to a veranda a few feet above a formal garden. This was a very formal garden, with a
sundial, gravelled walks, bordered flower beds, and clipped border hedges. One night she heard
a noise outside. Slipping on a warm wrap and seizing her trusty revolver she stole out on the
veranda to investigate. She looked over the veranda rail. There just below her, trampling the
flower beds, tracking the gravel walks, endangering the sundial, stood a hippopotamus!

We had neighbours six or seven miles away. At times they came down to spend the night and luxuriate
in the comforts of civilization. They were a Lady A., and her nephew, and a young Scotch acquaintance
the nephew had taken into partnership. They had built themselves circular houses of papyrus
reeds with conical thatched roofs and earth floors, had purchased ox teams and gathered a dozen
or so Kikuyus, and were engaged in breaking a farm in the wilderness. The life was rough and
hard, and Lady A. and her nephew gently bred, but they seemed to be having quite cheerfully
the time of their lives. The game furnished them meat, as it did all of us, and they hoped
in time that their labours would make the land valuable and productive. Fascinating as was
the life, it was also one of many deprivations. At Juja were a number of old copies of Life,
the pretty girls in which so fascinated the young men that we broke the laws of propriety by
presenting them, though they did not belong to us. C., the nephew, was of the finest type of
young Englishman, clean cut, enthusiastic, good looking, with an air of engaging vitality and
optimism. His partner, of his own age, was an insufferable youth. Brought up in some small
Scottish valley, his outlook had never widened. Because he wanted to buy four oxen at a cheaper
price, he tried desperately to abrogate quarantine regulations. If he had succeeded, he would
have made a few rupees, but would have introduced disease in his neighbours' herds. This consideration
did not affect him. He was much given to sneering at what he could not understand; and therefore,
a great deal met with his disapproval. His reading had evidently brought him down only to about
the middle sixties; and affairs at that date were to him still burning questions. Thus he would
declaim vehemently over the Alabama claims.

"I blush with shame," he would cry, "when I think of England's attitude in that matter."

We pointed out that the dispute had been amicably settled by the best minds of the time, had
passed between the covers of history, and had given way in immediate importance to several
later topics.

"This vacillating policy," he swept on, "annoys me. For my part, I should like to see so firm
a stand taken on all questions that in any part of the world, whenever a man, and wherever
a man, said 'I am an Englishman? everybody else would draw back!'"

He was an incredible person. However, I was glad to see him; he and a few others of his kind
have consoled me for a number of Americans I have met abroad. Lady A., with the tolerant philosophy
of her class, seemed merely amused. I have often since wondered how this ill-assorted partnership
turned out.

Two other neighbours of ours dropped in once or twice-twenty-six miles on bicycles, on which
they could ride only a portion of the distance. They had some sort of a ranch up in the Ithanga
Hills; and were two of the nicest fellows one would want to meet, brimful of energy, game for
anything, and had so good a time always that the grumpiest fever could not prevent every one
else having a good time too. Once they rode on their bicycles forty miles to Nairobi, danced
half the night at a Government House ball, rode back in the early morning, and did an afternoon's
plowing! They explained this feat by pointing out most convincingly that the ground was just
right for plowing, but they did not want to miss the ball!

Occasionally a trim and dapper police official would drift in on horseback looking for native
criminals; and once a safari came by. Twelve miles away was the famous Kamiti Farm of Heatly,
where Roosevelt killed his buffalo; and once or twice Heatly himself, a fine chap, came to
see us. Also just before I left with Duirs for a lion hunt on Kapiti, Lady Girouard, wife of
the Governor, and her nephew and niece rode out for a hunt. In the African fashion, all these
people brought their own personal servants. It makes entertaining easy. Nobody knows where
all these boys sleep; but they manage to tuck away somewhere, and always show up after a mysterious
system of their own whenever there is anything to be done.

We stayed at Juja a little over three weeks. Then most reluctantly said farewell and returned
to Nairobi in preparation for a long trip to the south.

XXIX. CHAPTER THE LAST

With our return from Juja to Nairobi for a breathing space, this volume comes to a logical
conclusion. In it I have tried to give a fairly comprehensive impression-it could hardly be
a picture of so large a subject-of a portion of East Equatorial Africa, its animals, and its
people. Those who are sufficiently interested will have an opportunity in a succeeding volume
of wandering with us even farther afield. The low jungly coast region; the fierce desert of
the Serengetti; the swift sullen rhinoceros-haunted stretches of the Tsavo; Nairobi, the strangest
mixture of the twentieth centuries A.D. and B.C.; Mombasa with its wild, barbaric passionate
ebb and flow of life, of colour, of throbbing sound, the great lions of the Kapiti Plains,
the Thirst of the Loieta, the Masai spearmen, the long chase for the greater kudu; the wonderful,
high unknown country beyond the Narossara and other affairs will there be detailed. If the
reader of this volume happens to want more, there he will find it.

APPENDIX I

Most people are very much interested in how hot it gets in such tropics as we traversed. Unfortunately
it is very difficult to tell them. Temperature tables have very little to do with the matter,
for humidity varies greatly. On the Serengetti at lower reaches of the Guaso Nyero I have seen
it above 110 degrees. It was hot, to be sure, but not exhaustingly so. On the other hand, at
90 or 95 degrees the low coast belt I have had the sweat run from me literally in streams;
so that a muddy spot formed wherever I stood still. In the highlands, moreover, the nights
were often extremely cold. I have recorded night temperatures as low as 40 at 7000 feet of
elevation; and noon temperatures as low 65.

Of more importance than the actual or sensible temperature of the air is the power of the sun's
rays. At all times of year this is practically constant; for the orb merely swings a few degrees
north and south of the equator, and the extreme difference in time between its risings or settings
is not more than twenty minutes. This power is also practically constant whatever the temperature
of the air and is dangerous even on a cloudy day, when the heat waves are effectually screened
off, but when the actinic rays are as active as ever. For this reason the protection of helmet
and spine pad should never be omitted, no matter what the condition of the weather, between
nine o'clock and four. A very brief exposure is likely to prove fatal. It should be added that
some people stand these actinic rays better than others.

Such being the case, mere temperature tables could have little interest to the general reader.
I append a few statistics, selected from many, and illustrative of the different conditions.

     Locality.     Elevation  6am   noon  8pm  Apparent conditions
     Coast             ---     80    90   76   Very hot and sticky
     Isiola River      2900    65    94   84   Hot but not exhausting
     Tans River        3350    68    98   79   Hot but not exhausting
     Near Meru         5450    62    80   70   Very pleasant
     Serengetti Plains 2200    78   106   86   Hot and humid
     Narossara River   5450    54    89   69   Very pleasant
     Narossara Mts.    7400    42    80   50   Chilly
     Narossara Mts.    6450    40    62   52   Cold

APPENDIX II

GAME ANIMALS COLLECTED

     Lion                 Bush pig         Grant's gazelle
     Serval cat           Baboon           Thompson's gazelle
     Cheetah              Colobus          Gerenuk gazelle
     Black-backed jackal  Hippopotamus     Coke's hartebeests
     Silver jackal        Rhinoceros       Jackson's hartebeests
     Striped hyena        Crocodile        Neuman's hartebeests
     Spotted hyena        Python           Chandler's reedbuck
     Fennec fox           Ward's zebra     Bohur reedbuck
     Honey badger         Grevy's zebra    Beisa ox
     Aardewolf            Notata gazelle   Fringe-eared oryx
     Wart-hog             Roberts' gazelle Duiker
     Waterbuck            Klipspringer     Harvey's duiker
     Sing-sing            Dik-dik          Greater kudu
     Oribi (3 varieties)  Wildebeeste      Lesser kudu
     Eland        Roosevelt's wildebeests  Sable antelope
     Roan antelope        Buffalo
     Bushbuck             Topi

     Total, fifty-four kinds

GAME BIRDS COLLECTED

     Marabout        Gadwall            Lesser bustard
     Egret           European stork     Guinea fowl
     Glossy ibis     Quail              Giant guinea fowl
     Egyptian goose  Sand grouse        Green pigeon
     White goose     Francolin          Blue pigeon
     English snipe   Spur fowl          Dove (2 species)
     Mallard duck    Greater bustard

     Total, twenty-two kinds

APPENDIX III

For the benefit of the sportsman and gun crank who want plain facts and no flapdoodle, the
following statistics are offered. To the lay reader this inclusion will be incomprehensible;
but I know my gun crank as I am one myself!

Army Springfield, model 1903 to take the 1906 cartridge, shooting the Spitzer sharp point bullet.
Stocked to suit me by Ludwig Wundhammer, and fitted with Sheard gold bead front sight and Lyman
aperture receiver sight. With this I did most my shooting, as the trajectory was remarkably
good, and the killing power remarkable. Tried out both the old-fashioned soft point bullets
and the sharp Spitzer bullets, but find the latter far the more effective. In fact the paralyzing
shock given by the Spitzer is almost beyond belief. African animals are notably tenacious of
life; but the Springfield dropped nearly half the animals dead with one shot; a most unusual
record, as every sportsman will recognize. The bullets seemed on impact always to flatten slightly
at the base, the point remaining intact-to spin widely on the axis, and to plunge off at an
angle. This action of course depended on the high velocity. The requisite velocity, however
seemed to keep up within all shooting ranges. A kongoni I killed at 638 paces (measured), and
another at 566 paces both exhibited this action of the bullet. I mention these ranges because
I have seen the statement in print that the remaining velocity beyond 350 yards would not be
sufficient in this arm to prevent the bullet passing through cleanly. I should also hasten
to add that I do not habitually shoot at game at the above ranges; but did so in these two
instances for the precise purpose of testing the arm. Metal fouling did not bother me at all,
though I had been led to expect trouble from it. The weapon was always cleaned with water so
boiling hot that the heat of the barrel dried it. When occasionally flakes of metal fouling
became visible a Marble brush always sufficed to remove enough of it. It was my habit to smear
the bullets with mobilubricant before placing them in the magazine. This was not as much of
a nuisance as it sounds. A small tin box about the size of a pill box lasted me the whole trip;
and only once did I completely empty the magazine at one time. On my return I tested the rifle
very thoroughly for accuracy. In spite of careful cleaning the barrel was in several places
slightly corroded. For this the climate was responsible. The few small pittings, however, did
not seem in any way to have affected the accuracy, as the rifle shot the following groups:
3-1/2 inches at 200 yards; 7-1/4 inches at 300 yards; and 11-1/2 inches at 500 yards.*

     * It shot one five-shot 1-2/3 inch group at 200 yds., and
     several others at all distances less than the figures given,
     but I am convinced these must have been largely accidental.

These groups were not made from a machine rest, however; as none was available. The complete
record with this arm for my whole stay in Africa was 307 hits out of 395 cartridges fired,
representing 185 head of game killed. Most of this shooting was for meat and represented also
all sorts of "varmints" as well.

The 405 Winchester. This weapon was sighted like the Springfield, and was constantly in the
field as my second gun. For lions it could not be beaten; as it was very accurate, delivered
a hard blow, and held five cartridges. Beyond 125 to 150 yards one had to begin to guess at
distance, so for ordinary shooting I preferred the Springfield. In thick brush country, however,
where one was likely to come suddenly on rhinoceroes, but where one wanted to be ready always
for desirable smaller game, the Winchester was just the thing. It was short, handy, and reliable.
One experience with a zebra 300-350 yards has made me question whether at long (hunting) ranges
the remaining velocity of the big blunt nosed bullet is not seriously reduced; but as to that
I have not enough data for a final conclusion. I have no doubt, however, that at such ranges,
and beyond, the little Springfield has more shocking power. Of course at closer ranges the
Winchester is by far the more powerful. I killed one rhinoceros with the 405, one buffalo and
one hippo; but should consider it too light for an emergency gun against the larger dangerous
animals, such as buffalo and rhinoceros. If one has time for extreme accuracy, and can pick
the shot, it is plenty big; but I refer now to close quarters in a hurry. I had no trouble
whatever with the mechanism of this arm; nor have I ever had trouble with any of the lever
actions, although I have used them for many years. As regards speed of fire the controversy
between the lever and bolt action advocates seems to me foolish in the extreme. Either action
can be fired faster than it should be fired in the presence of game. It is my belief that any
man, no matter how practised or how cool, can stampede himself beyond his best accuracy by
pumping out his shots too rapidly. This is especially true in the face of charging dangerous
game. So firmly do I believe this that I generally take the rifle from my shoulder between
each shot. Even aimed rapid fire is of no great value as compared with better aimed slower
fire. The first bullet delivers to an animal's nervous system about all the shock it can absorb.
If the beast is not thereby knocked down and held down, subsequent shots can accomplish that
desirable result only by reaching a vital spot or by tearing tissue. As an example of this
I might instance a waterbuck into which I saw my companion empty five heavy 465 and double
500 bullets from cordite rifles before it fell! Thus if the game gets to its feet after the
first shock, it is true that the hunter will often empty into it six or seven more bullets
without apparent result, unless he aims carefully for a centrally vital point. It follows that
therefore a second shot aimed with enough care to land it in that point is worth a lot more
than a half dozen delivered in three or four seconds with only the accuracy necessary to group
decently at very short range, even if all of them hit the beast. I am perfectly aware that
this view will probably be disputed; but it is the result of considerable experience, close
observation and real interest in the game. The whole record of the Winchester was 56 hits out
of 70 cartridges fired; representing 27 head of game.

The 465 Holland & Holland double cordite rifle. This beautiful weapon, built and balanced like
a fine hammerless shotgun, was fitted with open sights. It was of course essentially a close
range emergency gun, but was capable of accurate work at a distance. I killed one buffalo dead
with it, across a wide canyon, with the 300-yard leaf up on the back sight. Its game list however
was limited to rhinoceroses, hippopotamuses, buffaloes and crocodiles. The recoil in spite
of its weight of twelve and one half pounds, was tremendous; but unnoticeable when I was shooting
at any of these brutes. Its total record was 31 cartridges fired with 29 hits representing
13 head of game.

The conditions militating against marksmanship are often severe. Hard work in the tropics is
not the most steadying regime in the world, and outside a man's nerves, he is often bothered
by queer lights, and the effects of the mirage that swirls from the sun-heated plain. The ranges,
too, are rather long. I took the trouble to pace out about every kill, and find that antelope
in the plains averaged 245 yards; with a maximum of 638 yards, while antelope in covered country
averaged 148 yards, with a maximum of 311.

APPENDIX IV. THE AMERICAN IN AFRICA

IN WHICH HE APPEARS AS DIFFERENT FROM THE ENGLISHMAN

It is always interesting to play the other fellow's game his way, and then, in light of experience,
to see wherein our way and his way modify each other.

The above proposition here refers to camping. We do considerable of it in our country, especially
in our North and West. After we have been at it for some time, we evolve a method of our own.
The basis of that method is to do without; to GO LIGHT. At first even the best of us will carry
too much plunder, but ten years of philosophy and rainstorms, trails and trials, will bring
us to an irreducible minimum. A party of three will get along with two pack horses, say; or,
on a harder trip, each will carry the necessities on his own back. To take just as little as
is consistent with comfort is to play the game skilfully. Any article must pay in use for its
transportation.

With this ideal deeply ingrained by the test of experience, the American camper is appalled
by the caravan his British cousins consider necessary for a trip into the African back country.
His said cousin has, perhaps, very kindly offered to have his outfit ready for him when he
arrives. He does arrive to find from one hundred to one hundred and fifty men gathered as his
personal attendants.

"Great Scot!" he cries, "I want to go camping; I don't want to invade anybody's territory.
Why the army?"

He discovers that these are porters, to carry his effects.

"What effects?" he demands, bewildered. As far as he knows, he has two guns, some ammunition,
and a black tin box, bought in London, and half-filled with extra clothes, a few medicines,
a thermometer, and some little personal knick-knacks. He has been wondering what else he is
going to put in to keep things from rattling about. Of course he expected besides these to
take along a little plain grub, and some blankets, and a frying pan and kettle or so.

The English friend has known several Americans, so he explains patiently.

"I know this seems foolish to you," he says, "but you must remember you are under the equator
and you must do things differently here. As long as you keep fit you are safe; but if you get
run down a bit you'll go. You've got to do yourself well, down here, rather better than you
have to in any other climate. You need all the comfort you can get; and you want to save yourself
all you can."

This has a reasonable sound and the American does not yet know the game. Recovering from his
first shock, he begins to look things over. There is a double tent, folding camp chair, folding
easy chair, folding table, wash basin, bath tub, cot, mosquito curtains, clothes hangers; there
are oil lanterns, oil carriers, two loads of mysterious cooking utensils and cook camp stuff;
there is an open fly, which his friend explains is his dining tent; and there are from a dozen
to twenty boxes standing in a row, each with its padlock. "I didn't go in for luxury," apologizes
the English friend. "Of course we can easily add anything you want but I remember you wrote
me that you wanted to travel light."

"What are those?" our American inquires, pointing to the locked boxes.

He learns that they are chop boxes, containing food and supplies. At this he rises on his hind
legs and paws the air.

"Food!" he shrieks. "Why, man alive, I'm alone, and I am only going to be out three months!
I can carry all I'll ever eat in three months in one of those boxes."

But the Englishman patiently explains. You cannot live on "bacon and beans" in this country,
so to speak. You must do yourself rather well, you know, to keep in condition. And you cannot
pack food in bags, it must be tinned. And then, of course, such things as your sparklet siphons
and lime juice require careful packing-and your champagne.

"Champagne," breathes the American in awestricken tones.

"Exactly, dear boy, an absolute necessity. After a touch of sun there's nothing picks you up
better than a mouthful of fizz. It's used as a medicine, not a drink, you understand."

The American reflects again that this is the other fellow's game, and that the other fellow
has been playing it for some time, and that he ought to know. But he cannot yet see why the
one hundred and fifty men. Again the Englishman explains. There is the Headman to run the show.
Correct: we need him. Then there are four askaris. What are they? Native soldiers. No, you
won't be fighting anything; but they keep the men going, and act as sort of sub-foremen in
bossing the complicated work. Next is your cook, and your own valet and that of your horse.
Also your two gunbearers.

"Hold on!" cries our friend. "I have only two guns, and I'm going to carry one myself."

But this, he learns, is quite impossible. It is never done. It is absolutely necessary, in
this climate, to avoid all work.

That makes how many? Ten already, and there seem to be three tent loads, one bed load, one
chair and table load, one lantern load, two miscellaneous loads, two cook loads, one personal
box, and fifteen chop boxes-total twenty-six, plus the staff, as above, thirty-six. Why all
the rest of the army?

Very simple: these thirty-six men have, according to regulation, seven tents, and certain personal
effects, and they must have "potio" or a ration of one and a half pounds per diem. These things
must be carried by more men.

"I see," murmurs the American, crushed, "and these more men have more tents and more potio,
which must also be carried. It's like the House that Jack Built."

So our American concludes still once again that the other fellow knows his own game, and starts
out. He learns he has what is called a "modest safari"; and spares a fleeting wonder as to
what a really elaborate safari must be. The procession takes the field. He soon sees the value
of the four askaris-the necessity of whom he has secretly doubted. Without their vigorous seconding
the headman would have a hard time indeed. Also, when he observes the labour of tent-making,
packing, washing, and general service performed by his tent boy, he abandons the notion that
that individual could just as well take care of the horse as well, especially as the horse
has to have all his grass cut and brought to him. At evening our friend has a hot bath, a long
cool fizzly drink of lime juice and soda; he puts on the clean clothes laid out for him, assumes
soft mosquito boots, and sits down to dinner. This is served to him in courses, and on enamel
ware. Each course has its proper-sized plate and cutlery. He starts with soup, goes down through
tinned whitebait or other fish, an entree, a roast, perhaps a curry, a sweet, and small coffee.
He is certainly being "done well," and he enjoys the comfort of it.

There comes a time when he begins to wonder a little. It is all very pleasant, of course, and
perhaps very necessary; they all tell him it is. But, after all, it is a little galling to
the average man to think that of him. Your Englishman doesn't mind that; he enjoys being taken
care of: but the sportsman of American training likes to stand on his own feet as far as he
is able and conditions permit. Besides, it is expensive. Besides that, it is a confounded nuisance,
especially when potio gives out and more must be sought, near or far. Then, if he is wise,
he begins to do a little figuring on his own account.

My experience was very much as above. Three of us went out for eleven weeks with what was considered
a very "modest" safari indeed. It comprised one hundred and eighteen men. My fifth and last
trip, also with two companions, was for three months. Our personnel consisted, all told, forty men.

In essentials the Englishman is absolutely right. One cannot camp in Africa as one would at
home. The experimenter would be dead in a month. In his application of that principle, however,
he seems to the American point of view to overshoot. Let us examine his proposition in terms
of the essentials-food, clothing, shelter. There is no doubt but that a man must keep in top
condition as far as possible; and that, to do so, he must have plenty of good food. He can
never do as we do on very hard trips at home: take a little tea, sugar, coffee, flour, salt,
oatmeal. But on the other hand, he certainly does not need a five-course dinner every night,
nor a complete battery of cutlery, napery and table ware to eat it from. Flour, sugar, oatmeal,
tea and coffee, rice, beans, onions, curry, dried fruits, a little bacon, and some dehydrated
vegetables will do him very well indeed-with what he can shoot. These will pack in waterproof
bags very comfortably. In addition to feeding himself well, he finds he must not sleep next
to the ground, he must have a hot bath every day, but never a cold one, and he must shelter
himself with a double tent against the sun.

Those are the absolute necessities of the climate. In other words, if he carries a double tent,
a cot, a folding bath; and gives a little attention to a properly balanced food supply, he
has met the situation.

If, in addition, he takes canned goods, soda siphons, lime juice, easy chairs and all the rest
of the paraphernalia, he is merely using a basic principle as an excuse to include sheer luxuries.
In further extenuation of this he is apt to argue that porters are cheap, and that it costs
but little more to carry these extra comforts. Against this argument, of course, I have nothing
to say. It is the inalienable right of every man to carry all the luxuries he wants. My point
is that the average American sportsman does not want them, and only takes them because he is
overpersuaded that these things are not luxuries, but necessities. For, mark you, he could
take the same things into the Sierras or the North-by paying; but he doesn't.

I repeat, it is the inalienable right of any man to travel as luxuriously as he pleases. But
by the same token it is not his right to pretend that luxuries are necessities. That is to
put himself into the same category with the man who always finds some other excuse for taking
a drink than the simple one that he wants it.

The Englishman's point of view is that he objects to "pigging it," as he says. "Pigging it"
means changing your home habits in any way. If you have been accustomed to eating your sardines
after a meal, and somebody offers them to you first, that is "pigging it." In other words,
as nearly as I can make out, "pigging it" does not so much mean doing things in an inadequate
fashion as DOING THEM DIFFERENTLY. Therefore, the Englishman in the field likes to approximate
as closely as may be his life in town, even if it takes one hundred and fifty men to do it.
Which reduces the "pigging it" argument to an attempt at condemnation by calling names.

The American temperament, on the contrary, being more experimental and independent, prefers
to build anew upon its essentials. Where the Englishman covers the situation blanket-wise with
his old institutions, the American prefers to construct new institutions on the necessities
of the case. He objects strongly to being taken care of too completely. He objects strongly
to losing the keen enjoyment of overcoming difficulties and enduring hardships. The Englishman
by habit and training has no such objections. He likes to be taken care of, financially, personally,
and everlastingly. That is his ideal of life. If he can be taken care of better by employing
three hundred porters and packing eight tin trunks of personal effects-as I have seen it done-he
will so employ and take. That is all right: he likes it.

But the American does not like it. A good deal of the fun for him is in going light, in matching
himself against his environment. It is no fun to him to carry his complete little civilization
along with him, laboriously. If he must have cotton wool, let it be as little cotton wool as
possible. He likes to be comfortable; but he likes to be comfortable with the minimum of means.
Striking just the proper balance somehow adds to his interest in the game. And how he DOES
object to that ever-recurring thought-that he is such a helpless mollusc that it requires a
small regiment to get him safely around the country!

Both means are perfectly legitimate, of course; and neither view is open to criticism. All
either man is justified in saying is that he, personally, wouldn't get much fun out of doing
it the other way. As a matter of fact, human nature generally goes beyond its justifications
and is prone to criticise. The Englishman waxes a trifle caustic on the subject of "pigging
it"; and the American indulges in more than a bit of sarcasm on the subject of "being led about
Africa like a dog on a string."

By some such roundabout mental process as the above the American comes to the conclusion that
he need not necessarily adopt the other fellow's method of playing this game. His own method
needs modification, but it will do. He ventures to leave out the tables and easy chair, takes
a camp stool and eats off a chop box. To the best of his belief his health does not suffer
from this. He gets on with a camper's allowance of plate, cup and cutlery, and so cuts out
a load and a half of assorted kitchen utensils and table ware. He even does without a tablecloth
and napkins! He discards the lime juice and siphons, and purchases a canvas evaporation bag
to cool the water. He fires one gunbearer, and undertakes the formidable physical feat of carrying
one of his rifles himself. And, above all, he modifies that grub list. The purchase of waterproof
bags gets rid of a lot of tin: the staple groceries do quite as well as London fancy stuff.
Golden syrup takes the place of all the miscellaneous jams, marmalades and other sweets. The
canned goods go by the board. He lays in a stock of dried fruit. At the end, he is possessed
of a grub list but little different from that of his Rocky Mountain trips. Some few items he
has cut down; and some he has substituted; but bulk and weight are the same. For his three
months' trip he has four or five chop boxes all told.

And then suddenly he finds that thus he has made a reduction all along the line. Tent load,
two men; grub and kitchen, five men; personal, one man; bed, one man; miscellaneous, one or
two. There is now no need for headmen and askaris to handle this little lot. Twenty more to
carry food for the men-he is off with a quarter of the number of his first "modest safari."

You who are sportsmen and are not going to Africa, as is the case with most, will perhaps read
this, because we are always interested in how the other fellow does it. To the few who are
intending an exploration of the dark continent this concentration of a year's experience may
be valuable. Remember to sleep off the ground, not to starve yourself, to protect yourself
from the sun, to let negroes do all hard work but marching and hunting. Do these things your
own way, using your common-sense on how to get at it. You'll be all right.

That, I conceive, covers the case. The remainder of your equipment has to do with camp affairs,
and merely needs listing. The question here is not of the sort to get, but of what to take.
The tents, cooking affairs, etc., are well adapted to the country. In selecting your tent,
however, you will do very well to pick out one whose veranda fly reaches fairly to the ground,
instead of stopping halfway.

     1 tent and ground sheet
     1 folding cot and cork mattress,
     1 pillow, 3 single blankets
     1 combined folding bath and ashstand ("X" brand)
     1 camp stool
     3 folding candle lanterns
     1 gallon turpentine
     3 lbs. alum
     1 river rope
     Sail needles and twine
     3 pangas (native tools for chopping and digging)
     Cook outfit (select these yourself, and cut out the extras)
     2 axes (small)
     Plenty laundry soap
     Evaporation bag
     2 pails
     10 yards cotton cloth ("Mericani")

These things, your food, your porters' outfits and what trade goods you may need are quite
sufficient. You will have all you want, and not too much. If you take care of yourself, you
ought to keep in good health. Your small outfit permits greater mobility than does that of
the English cousin, infinitely less nuisance and expense. Furthermore, you feel that once more
you are "next to things," instead of "being led about Africa like a dog on a string."

APPENDIX V. THE AMERICAN IN AFRICA

WHAT HE SHOULD TAKE

Before going to Africa I read as many books as I could get hold of on the subject, some of
them by Americans. In every case the authors have given a chapter detailing the necessary outfit.
Invariably they have followed the Englishman's ideas almost absolutely. Nobody has ventured
to modify those ideas in any essential manner. Some have deprecatingly ventured to remark that
it is as well to leave out the tinned carfare-if you do not like carfare; but that is as far
as they care to go. The lists are those of the firms who make a business of equipping caravans.
The heads of such firms are generally old African travellers. They furnish the equipment their
customers demand; and as English sportsmen generally all demand the same thing, the firms end
by issuing a printed list of essentials for shooting parties in Africa, including carfare.
Travellers follow the lists blindly, and later copy them verbatim into their books. Not one
has thought to empty out the whole bag of tricks, to examine them in the light of reason, and
to pick out what a man of American habits, as contrasted to one of English habits, would like
to have. This cannot be done a priori; it requires the test of experience to determine how
to meet, in our own way, the unusual demands of climate and conditions.

And please note, when the heads of these equipment firms, these old African travellers, take
the field for themselves, they pay no attention whatever to their own printed lists of "essentials."

Now, premising that the English sportsman has, by many years' experience, worked out just what
he likes to take into the field; and assuring you solemnly that his ideas are not in the least
the ideas of American sportsman, let us see if we cannot do something for ourselves.

At present the American has either to take over in toto the English idea, which is not adapted
to him, and is-TO HIM-a nuisance, or to go it blind, without experience except that acquired
in a temperate climate, which is dangerous. I am not going to copy out the English list again,
even for comparison. I have not the space; and if curious enough, you can find it in any book
on modern African travel. Of course I realize well that few Americans go to Africa; but I also
realize well that the sportsman is a crank, a wild and eager enthusiast over items of equipment
anywhere. He-and I am thinking emphatically of him-would avidly devour the details of the proper
outfit for the gentle art of hunting the totally extinct whiffenpoof.

Let us begin, first of all, with:

Personal Equipment Clothes. On the top of your head you must have a sun helmet. Get it of cork,
not of pith. The latter has a habit of melting unobtrusively about your ears when it rains.
A helmet in brush is the next noisiest thing to a circus band, so it is always well to have,
also, a double terai. This is not something to eat. It is a wide felt hat, and then another
wide felt hat on top of that. The vertical-rays-of-the-tropical-sun (pronounced as one word
to save time after you have heard and said it a thousand times) are supposed to get tangled
and lost somewhere between the two hats. It is not, however, a good contraption to go in all
day when the sun is strong.

As underwear you want the lightest Jaeger wool. Doesn't sound well for tropics, but it is an
essential. You will sweat enough anyway, even if you get down to a brass wire costume like
the natives. It is when you stop in the shade, or the breeze, or the dusk of evening, that
the trouble comes. A chill means trouble, SURE. Two extra suits are all you want. There is
no earthly sense in bringing more. Your tent boy washes them out whenever he can lay hands
on them-it is one of his harmless manias.

Your shirt should be of the thinnest brown flannel. Leather the shoulders, and part way down
the upper arm, with chamois. This is to protect your precious garment against the thorns when
you dive through them. On the back you have buttons sewed wherewith to attach a spine pad.
Before I went to Africa I searched eagerly for information or illustration of a spine pad.
I guessed what it must be for, and to an extent what it must be like, but all writers maintained
a conservative reticence as to the thing itself. Here is the first authorized description.
A spine pad is a quilted affair in consistency like the things you are supposed to lift hot
flat-irons with. On the outside it is brown flannel, like the shirt; on the inside it is a
gaudy orange colour. The latter is not for aesthetic effect, but to intercept actinic rays.
It is eight or ten inches wide, is shaped to button close up under your collar, and extends
halfway down your back. In addition it is well to wear a silk handkerchief around the neck;
as the spine and back of the head seem to be the most vulnerable to the sun.

For breeches, suit yourself as to material. It will have to be very tough, and of fast colour.
The best cut is the "semi-riding," loose at the knees, which should be well faced with soft
leather, both for crawling, and to save the cloth in grass and low brush. One pair ought to
last four months, roughly speaking. You will find a thin pair of ordinary khaki trousers very
comfortable as a change for wear about camp. In passing I would call your attention to "shorts."
Shorts are loose, bobbed off khaki breeches, like knee drawers. With them are worn puttees
or leather leggings, and low boots. The knees are bare. They are much affected by young Englishmen.
I observed them carefully at every opportunity, and my private opinion is that man has rarely
managed to invent as idiotically unfitted a contraption for the purpose in hand. In a country
teeming with poisonous insects, ticks, fever-bearing mosquitoes; in a country where vegetation
is unusually well armed with thorns, spines and hooks, mostly poisonous; in a country where,
oftener than in any other a man is called upon to get down on his hands and knees and crawl
a few assorted abrading miles, it would seem an obvious necessity to protect one's bare skin
as much as possible. The only reason given for these astonishing garments is that they are
cooler and freer to walk in. That I can believe. But they allow ticks and other insects to
crawl up, mosquitoes to bite, thorns to tear, and assorted troubles to enter. And I can vouch
by experience that ordinary breeches are not uncomfortably hot or tight. Indeed, one does not
get especially hot in the legs anyway. I noticed that none of the old-time hunters like Cuninghame
or Judd wore shorts. The real reason is not that they are cool, but that they are picturesque.
Common belief to the contrary, your average practical, matter-of-fact Englishman loves to dress
up. I knew one engaged in farming-picturesque farming-in our own West, who used to appear at
afternoon tea in a clean suit of blue overalls! It is a harmless amusement. Our own youths
do it, also, substituting chaps for shorts, perhaps. I am not criticising the spirit in them;
but merely trying to keep mistaken shorts off you.

For leg gear I found that nothing could beat our American combination of high-laced boots and
heavy knit socks. Leather leggings are noisy, and the rolled puttees hot and binding. Have
your boots ten or twelve inches high, with a flap to buckle over the tie of the laces, with
soles of the mercury-impregnated leather called "elk hide," and with small Hungarian hobs.
Your tent boy will grease these every day with "dubbin," of which you want a good supply. It
is not my intention to offer free advertisements generally, but I wore one pair of boots all
the time I was in Africa, through wet, heat, and long, long walking. They were in good condition
when I gave them away finally, and had not started a stitch. They were made by that excellent
craftsman, A. A. Cutter, of Eau Claire, Wis., and he deserves and is entirely welcome to this
puff. Needless to remark, I have received no especial favours from Mr. Cutter.

Six pairs of woollen socks, knit by hand, if possible-will be enough. For evening, when you
come in, I know nothing better than a pair of very high moosehide moccasins. They should, however,
be provided with thin soles against the stray thorn, and should reach well above the ankle
by way of defence against the fever mosquito. That festive insect carries on a surreptitious
guerrilla warfare low down. The English "mosquito boot" is simply an affair like a riding boot,
made of suede leather, with thin soles. It is most comfortable. My objection is that it is
unsubstantial and goes to pieces in a very brief time even under ordinary evening wear about camp.

You will also want a coat. In American camping I have always maintained the coat is a useless
garment. There one does his own work to a large extent. When at work or travel the coat is
in the way. When in camp the sweater or buckskin shirt is handier, and more easily carried.
In Africa, however, where the other fellow does most of the work, a coat is often very handy.
Do not make the mistake of getting an unlined light-weight garment. When you want it at all,
you want it warm and substantial. Stick on all the pockets possible, and have them button securely.

For wet weather there is nothing to equal a long and voluminous cape. Straps crossing the chest
and around the waist permit one to throw it off the shoulders to shoot. It covers the hands,
the rifle-most of the little horses or mules one gets out there. One can sleep in or on it,
and it is a most effective garment against heavy winds. One suit of pajamas is enough, considering
your tent boy's commendable mania for laundry work. Add handkerchiefs and you are fixed.

You will wear most of the above, and put what remains in your "officer's box." This is a thin
steel, air-tight affair with a wooden bottom, and is the ticket for African work.

Sporting. Pick out your guns to suit yourself. You want a light one and a heavy one.

When I came to send out my ammunition, I was forced again to take the other fellow's experience.
I was told by everybody that I should bring plenty, that it was better to have too much than
too little, etc. I rather thought so myself, and accordingly shipped a trifle over 1,500 rounds
of small bore cartridges. Unfortunately, I never got into the field with any of my numerous
advisers on this point, so cannot state their methods from first-hand information. Inductive
reasoning leads me to believe that they consider it unsportsmanlike to shoot at a standing
animal at all, or at one running nearer than 250 yards. Furthermore, it is etiquette to continue
firing until the last cloud of dust has died down on the distant horizon. Only thus can I conceive
of getting rid of that amount of ammunition. In eight months of steady shooting, for example-shooting
for trophies, as well as to feed a safari of fluctuating numbers, counting jackals, marabout
and such small trash-I got away with 395 rounds of small bore ammunition and about 100 of large.
This accounted for 225 kills. That should give one an idea. Figure out how many animals you
are likely to want for ANY purpose, multiply by three, and bring that many cartridges.

To carry these cartridges I should adopt the English system of a stout leather belt on which
you slip various sized pockets and loops to suit the occasion. Each unit has loops for ten
cartridges. You rarely want more than that; and if you do, your gunbearer is supplied. In addition
to the loops, you have leather pockets to carry your watch; your money, your matches and tobacco,
your compass-anything you please. They are handy and safe. The tropical climate is too "sticky"
to get much comfort, or anything else, out of ordinary pockets.

In addition, you supply your gunbearer with a cartridge belt, a leather or canvas carrying
bag, water bottle for him and for yourself, a sheath knife and a whetstone. In the bag are
your camera, tape line, the whetstone, field cleaners and lunch. You personally carry your
field glasses, sun glasses, a knife, compass, matches, police whistle and notebook. The field
glasses should not be more than six power; and if possible you should get the sort with detachable
prisms. The prisms are apt to cloud in a tropical climate, and the non-detachable sort are
almost impossible for a layman to clean. Hang these glasses around your neck by a strap only
just long enough to permit you to raise them to your eyes. The best notebook is the "loose-leaf"
sort. By means of this you can keep always a fresh leaf on top; and at night can transfer your
day's notes to safe keeping in your tin box. The sun glasses should not be smoked or dark-you
can do nothing with them-but of the new amberol, the sort that excludes the ultra-violet rays,
but otherwise makes the world brighter and gayer. Spectacle frames of non-corrosive white metal,
not steel, are the proper sort.

To clean your guns you must supply plenty of oil, and then some more. The East African gunbearer
has a quite proper and gratifying, but most astonishing horror for a suspicion of rust; and
to use oil any faster he would have to drink it.

Other Equipment. All this has taken much time to tell about, it has not done much toward filling
up that tin box. Dump in your toilet effects and a bath towel, two or three scalpels for taxidermy,
a ball of string, some safety-pins, a small tool kit, sewing materials, a flask of brandy,
kodak films packed in tin, a boxed thermometer, an aneroid (if you are curious as to elevations),
journal, tags for labelling trophies, a few yards of gun cloth, and the medicine kit.

The latter divides into two classes: for your men and for yourself. The men will suffer from
certain well defined troubles: "tumbo," or overeating; diarrhaea, bronchial colds, fever and
various small injuries. For "tumbo" you want a liberal supply of Epsom's salts; for diarrhaea
you need chlorodyne; any good expectorant for the colds; quinine for the fever; permanganate
and plenty of bandages for the injuries. With this lot you can do wonders. For yourself you
need, or may need, in addition, a more elaborate lot: Laxative, quinine, phenacetin, bismuth
and soda, bromide of ammonium, morphia, camphor-ice, and aspirin. A clinical thermometer for
whites and one for blacks should be included. A tin of malted milk is not a bad thing to take
as an emergency ration after fever.

By this time your tin box is fairly well provided. You may turn to general supplies.