Under the influence of these passions, how often has one restless spirit disturbed the repose
of a prosperous nation, and spread desolation and misery over the fairest portions of the globe.
Does God permit this--and is he righteous? Yes, short-sighted questioner of Omniscience, the
Father of the universe is never more conspicuous in his paternal care, than when, by means
of temporal afflictions, he draws our regards toward our heavenly country.--Then is death disarmed
of the terrors which are planted round the bed of prosperity; then is the soul freed from that
bondage of sensual delight, which impedes her spiritual exertion. The no longer pampered body,
subdued to spareness, braced by toil, elastic from exertion, and patient from habit, is not
a clog, but a meet companion for its immortal associate. Prosperity, among many other evils,
engenders religious apathy, and luxurious selfishness. She presents a gorgeous stage, on which
the puppets of vanity and petty ambition act their insignificant parts; adversity educates
and exercises men.

Nor is the moral harvest a mere gleaning of good deeds. Where misery and wickedness seem most
to abound; where desperadoes and plunderers go forth to destroy and pillage; the passive virtues
pray, and endure. Self-devoting generosity then interposes her shield, and magnanimous heroism
her sword; benevolence seeks out and consoles distress; the confessor intercedes with heaven;
the patriot sacrifices his fortune and his comforts; the martyr dies on the scaffold, and the
hero in the field. England hath often witnessed such piteous scenes, and many fear she is now
on the verge of similar calamities, which threaten to cloud her glory from the envy and admiration
of foreign nations, making her a taunting proverb of reproach to her enemies, while she points
a moral, and adorns a tale, for posterity. May those who govern her wide extended empire, so
study the records of our former woes, and shape their political course with such single-hearted
observance of the unerring laws of God, as to become, under his Providence, our preservers
from danger; and may the governed, remembering the tyranny which originated from insubordination;
the daring ambition of popular demagogues; the hypocrisy of noisy reformers, and all the certain
misery which arises from the pursuit of speculative unattainable perfection, adhere to those
institutions, which have been consecrated with the best blood in England, and proved by the
experience of ages to be consistent with as large a portion of national prosperity, as any
people have ever enjoyed. Yet as our offences may prevail over our prayers, let us prepare
our minds for times of trial. The public duties they require, are adapted to the discussion
of that sex, whose physical and mental powers fit it for active life, and deliberate policy.
But the exercise of the milder virtues is imperiously called for in seasons of national alarm.
Whether we are to endure the loss of our accustomed wealth and luxury, or to encounter the
far heavier trial of domestic confusion, there are habits of thinking and acting, which will
conduce to individual comfort and improvement. There are sorrows which neither "King nor laws
can cause or cure;" enjoyments, that no tyrant can withhold; and blessings, which even the
wildest theories of democracy cannot destroy. The asylum where these sacred heritages of a
good conscience are generally concealed, is the domestic hearth, that circumscribed but important
precinct where the female Lares sit as guardians. Is it presumptuous in one, who has long officiated
at such an household altar, again to solicit the forbearance and favour, which she has often
experienced, by calling public attention to a popular way of communicating opinions, not first
invented by herself, though she has often had recourse to it. The tale she now chooses as a
vehicle, aims at conveying instruction to the present times, under the form of a chronicle
of the past. The political and religious motives, which convulsed England in the middle of
the seventeenth century, bear so striking a resemblance to those which are now attempted to
be promulgated, that surely it must be salutary to remind the inconsiderate, that reformists
introduced first anarchy and then despotism, and that a multitude of new religions gave birth
to infidelity.

Nor let the serious hue which a story must wear that is dated in those times, when the church
militant was called to the house of mourning, deter the gay and young from a patient perusal.
Whatever mere prudential instructors may affirm, worldly prosperity should not be held out
as the criterion, or the reward of right conduct. Let us remember St. Augustine's answer to
those Pagans, who reproached him with the evils that Christians, in common with themselves,
suffered from the then convulsed state of the world. They asked him, "Where is thy God?" But
he declined founding the believer's privileges on individual exemptions, or personal providences.
"My God," said he, "in all his attributes, different from the false impotent Gods of the Heathen,
is to be found wherever his worshippers are;--if I am carried into captivity, his consolations
shall yet reach me;--if I lose the possessions of this life, my precious faith shall still
supply their want;--and if I die, not as the suffering heathen dies, by his own impious and
impatient hand, but in obedience to the will of God, my great reward begins. I shall enter
upon a life that will never be taken from me; and henceforth all tears shall be wiped from
my eyes."

Adversity purifies communities, as well as individuals. If fastidiousness, selfishness, pride,
and sensuality, conspire to cloud, with imaginary woes, the enjoyments of those whom others
deem happy and prosperous; faction, discontent, a querulous appetite for freedom, and an inordinate
ambition to acquire sudden pre-eminence, disturb public tranquillity, when a country has long
enjoyed the blessings of plenty and repose. Previous to the commencement of that great rebellion,
which tore the crown and mitre from the degraded shield of Britain, our forefathers, as we
are informed by the noble historian of his country's woes and shames[1], experienced an unusual
share of prosperity. The portrait he draws is so striking, that I must exhibit it in its native
colours. "A happiness invidiously set off by this distinction, that every other kingdom, every
other state, were entangled and almost destroyed by the fury of arms. The court was in great
plenty, or rather (which is the discredit of plenty) excess and luxury, the country rich, and
what is more, fully enjoying the pleasure of its own wealth, and so the more easily corrupted
with the pride and wantonness of it. The church flourishing with learned and extraordinary
men; trade increased to that degree, that we were the exchange of Christendom; foreign merchants
looking upon nothing so much their own, as what they had laid up in the warehouses of this
kingdom; the royal navy in number and equipage, very formidable at sea; lastly, for a complement
of all these blessings, they were enjoyed under the protection of a King of the most harmless
disposition; the most exemplary piety; the greatest sobriety, chastity, and mercy, that ever
Prince had been endowed with: But all these blessings could but enable, not compel, us to be
happy. We wanted that sense, acknowledgement, and value of our own happiness, which all but
we had; and we took pains to make, when we could not find ourselves miserable. There was in
truth a strange absence of understanding in most, and a strange perverseness of understanding
in the rest. The court full of excess, idleness, and luxury; the country full of pride, mutiny,
and discontent. Every man more troubled and perplexed at what they called the violation of
one law, than delighted or pleased with the observance of all the rest of the charter. Never
imputing the increase of their receipts, revenue, and plenty, to the wisdom, virtue, and merit
of the crown; but objecting every small imposition to the exorbitancy and tyranny of the government.
The growth of knowledge and virtue were disrelished for the infirmities of some learned men,
and the increase of grace and favour to the church was more repined and murmured at than the
increase of piety and devotion in it were regarded."

Such was the lowering calm of ungrateful discontent, which ushered in a fearful season of crime
and punishment, described at large by one who was an illustrious actor on that eventful stage,
and composed his history, "that posterity might not be deceived by the prosperity of wickedness
into a belief that nothing less than a general combination of an whole nation, and a universal
apostacy from their religion and allegiance, could, in so short a time, have produced such
a prodigious and total alteration; and that the memory of those, who out of duty and conscience
have opposed that torrent which overwhelmed them, may not lose the recompence due to their
virtues, but having undergone the injuries and reproaches of that, might find a vindication
in a better age."

In describing the scenes which ensued, "when an infatuated people, ripe and prepared for destruction,
plunged by the just judgment of God into all the perverse actions of folly and madness," he
reads us such important lessons as must strike an enlightened public, if recalled to their
attention. He tells us, by fatal experience, "that the weak contributed to the designs of the
wicked, while the latter, out of a conscience of their guilt, grew by desperation worse than
they intended to be. That the wise were often imposed upon by men of small understandings.
That the innocent were possessed with laziness, and slept in the most visible article of danger,
and that the ill-disposed, though of the most different opinions, opposite interests, and distant
affections, united in a firm and constant league of mischief, while those whose opinions and
interests were the same, divided into factions and emulations more pernicious to the public
than the treasons of others. Meanwhile the community, under pretence of zeal for religion,
law, liberty, and parliament, (words of precious esteem in their just signification,) were
furiously hurried into actions introducing atheism, and dissolving all the elements of the
Christian religion."

So great were the miseries incident to civil commotion, so soon did the mask fall off from
those pseudo-patriots, that all parties except the creatures of the ambitious Cromwel, ardently
looked for the restoration of their imprisoned King, as a termination of their own sorrows,
as well as of his misfortunes. And when that hope was frustrated "by the most consummate hypocrisy
and atrocious breach of all law and justice," the iron pressure of those times of pretended
liberty and equality that ensued, led every one, who had not by some unpardonable crime hazarded
his own safety, to welcome back the son of the royal victim to the constitution and honour
of England, with such rash exuberance of confiding loyalty, that, by intrusting to his careless
hand the full possession of unrestrained power, they laid the foundation of future contests
and confusion. Such were the prospective evils with which the Oliverian usurpation afflicted
the state, while in the department of morals, piety was brought into such contempt by the extravagance
of fanatics, and the detected cheats of hypocrites, that atheism and profaneness grew popular,
as being more open and candid in their avowed profligacy. The oppressive, or as his admirers
call it, the vigorous government of Cromwell humbled the proud spirit of Englishmen, who had
often revolted at the excessive stretches of prerogative under their legitimate kings; and
this new habit of submission, added to a deep repentance for their late crime, so struck the
independent character of the nation, that a cabal of atheists and libertines persuaded an unprincipled
Prince that he might as easily found his throne on what was then deemed the firm basis of despotism,
as many of the Continental princes had done. If, as Englishmen, we blush at the disgrace of
a King sold to France, and a court and nation abandoned to such licentious contempt of all
Christian obligations, that even decency is compelled to consign their polite literature to
oblivion, we must seek for the seeds of this twofold degradation in the times of which I propose
to exhibit a familiar portrait, illustrated by imaginary characters and events, but carefully
compared with warranted originals.

It remains to say something of the conduct of this design. Public events will be stated with
fidelity. Historical characters shall be but sparingly combined with feigned actions, but,
where they, are, great care shall be taken that they be neither flattered, calumniated, nor
overcharged; and, I believe, they may be found to have behaved in much the same manner to others,
as I shall represent them to do to the imaginary persons whom I bring on the scene. The long
space of years which this narrative embraces, is, I know, a great abatement of its interest.
It is a fault which could not be avoided without falsifying chronology at a period familiar
to every well-read person, or losing sight of the admonitory lesson which the tale was intended
to convey.

I know that there is no small share of hardihood in my attempt: Bigotry, superstitious adherence
to existing institutions, exclusive partiality to a sect, and pertinacious resistance to the
increase of liberal information, are well-sounding epithets easily applied, and too grateful
to the million to want popularity. Those who write with no higher motive than to please the
prevailing taste, must beware of touching upon topics which are likely to rouse the hostile
feelings of self-importance, and to disgust would-be statesmen and intuitive divines. Ridicule
will never disprove those opinions which were held by the wisest and most illustrious persons
that England ever produced. Should I be so unfortunate as to provoke hostility where I look
for co-operation; erroneous or undeserved censure shall not induce me to enter into a controversy
with those whom I believe to be sincere champions of religious truth, and to whose labours
I am consequently bound to say, "God speed," though they may consider me as a doubtful ally,
if not an enemy. To these I would address the dying words of the celebrated non-juror Archbishop
Sancroft to his subscribing chaplain, Needham--"You and I have gone different ways in these
late affairs, but I trust Heaven's gates are wide enough to receive us both. I always took
you for an honest man. What I said concerning myself was only to let you know that what I have
done I have done in the integrity of my heart, indeed in the great integrity of my heart."
Thus, only anxious to defend and support constitutional principles, I shall plead guilty to
many errors in taste, in the construction of the fable, as well as in the style of the narrative,
and throw myself on the mercy of the Public with regard to those points.

    [1] Lord Clarendon.

CHAP. II.

    I will not choose what many men desire,
    Because I will not jump with common spirits,
    And rank me with the barb'rous multitudes.

                                                 Shakspeare.

