When necessary, after each operation, a resinous grain may be applied in the manner usual with
engravers.

It is important to note that M. Garnier affirms that in both cases the engravings are untouched,
and that this is one of the essential characteristics of his process.

C.--Engraving in Relief for Letter-Press.--In the case of drawings in lines to be made into
printing-blocks for letter-press printing, the operation is conducted in its first phase absolutely
in the same manner as the foregoing, only, after exposure, instead of producing the image with
a slightly alkaline powder, powdered bitumen is used, and the plate is slightly warmed, so
that the powder may slightly fuse and adhere to the metal, but not enough to make the bichromated
sugar become insoluble. The plate is then washed with water, and all the sugary coating removed,
leaving the surface of the copper bare, except where it is protected by the bitumen forming
the image. The plate is then bitten with perchloride of iron, which gives a first biting, leaving
all the lines in relief. Further depth is obtained by alternate inkings and bitings, as in
the Gillotype method.

The above processes are very interesting, the use of the sugary coating, the hardening it by
heat, and the triple exposure and biting are new--at any rate, have not, so far as I know,
been published before.

The report then goes on to describe a further application of the same principle to obtaining
photographic images recently invented by M. Garnier, and called by him atmography.

PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINTING BY VAPOR--ATMOGRAPHY.

This process consists in tracing or transferring by means of vapors or fumes an image of any
object from one surface to another, whence the name of atmography it is proposed to give it.
The operations are as follows:

When an image formed of a powdery substance has been obtained either by dusting (as described
above), or by filling an engraved plate with the powder, the plate bearing the image is exposed
to a vapor, which has no effect upon it. The powder alone absorbs the vapor, and if the plate
be then applied to a surface coated with some substance capable of being acted upon by the
vapor, an image is obtained upon this second surface. For example, the lines of an engraved
copper-plate are filled with powdered albumen. On the other hand, a few drops of hydrofluoric
acid are spread over a wooden board, and the powdered engraving is exposed for ten to fifteen
seconds to the fumes disengaged by holding it about a quarter-of-an-inch above the board. The
acid is absorbed by the powdered albumen without attacking the copper. If this plate be now
placed in close contact with any surface (metal, paper, or glass) which has been covered with
a coating of sugar and borax, and dried immediately, a deliquescent fluoborate of soda is produced
under the action of the acid vapors, the sugar becomes tacky, and, by brushing a powder over
this surface, the image appears immediately.

In M. Davanne's opinion this new invention of M. Garnier's seems likely to have a useful and
extended application. The image may be made with powder of any desired color. If it is on glass,
it may be transferred to paper or other support by means of collodion or gelatine. By employing
enamel powders, this process gives a new method of producing vitrified images. It may also
be used as a simple method of reproducing engravings under certain circumstances; copies of
diagrams, however intricate, could easily be produced on glass by it, and used for the illustration
of lectures by means of the magic lantern.--Photo. News.

       *       *       *       *       *

DANGERS OF PYROGALLIC ACID.

By DR. T.L. PHIPSON.

