The western counties of Pennsylvania--Westmoreland, Fayette, Washington, and Allegheny--lie
around the head-waters of the Ohio in a radius of more than a hundred miles. At this time they
contained a population of about seventy thousand souls. Pittsburgh, the seat of justice, had
about twelve hundred inhabitants. The Alleghany Mountains separate this wild region from the
eastern section of the State. There were few roads of any kind, and these lay through woods.
The mountain passes could be traveled only on foot or horseback. The only trade with the East
was by pack-horses, while communication with the South was cut off by hostile Indian tribes
who held the banks of the Ohio. This isolation from the older, denser, and more civilized settlements
bred in the people a spirit of self-reliance and independence. They were in great part Scotch-Irish
Presbyterians, a religious and warlike race to whom the hatred of an exciseman was a tradition
of their forefathers. Having no market for their grain, they were compelled to preserve it
by converting it into whiskey. The still was the necessary appendage of every farm. The tax
was light, but payable in money, of which there was little or none. Its imposition, therefore,
coupled with the declaration of its oppressive nature by the Pennsylvania legislature, excited
a spirit of determined opposition near akin to revolution.

Unpopular in all the western part of the State, Hamilton's bill was especially odious to the
people of Washington County. The first meeting in opposition to it was held at Red Stone Old
Fort or Brownsville, the site of one of those ancient remains of the mound-builders which abound
in the western valleys. It was easily reached by Braddock's Road, the chief highway of the
country. Here gathered on July 27, 1791, a number of persons opposed to the law, when it was
agreed that county committees should be convened in the four counties at the respective seats
of justice. Brackenridge, in his "Incidents of the Western Insurrection," says that Albert
Gallatin was clerk of the meeting. One of these committees met in the town of Washington on
August 23, when violent resolutions were adopted. Gallatin, engaged at Philadelphia, was not
present at this assemblage, three of whose members were deputed to meet delegates from the
counties of Westmoreland, Fayette, and Allegheny, at Pittsburgh, on the first Tuesday in September
following, to agree upon an address to the legislature on the subject of excise and other grievances.
At the Pittsburgh meeting eleven delegates appeared for the four counties. The resolutions
adopted by them, general in character, read more like a declaration of grievances as a basis
for revolution than a petition for special redress. No wonder that the secretary of the treasury
stigmatized them as "intemperate." They charge that in the laws of the late Congress hasty
strides had been made to all that was unjust and oppressive. They complain of the increase
in the salaries of officials, of the unreasonable interest of the national debt, of the non-discrimination
between original holders and transferees of the public securities, of the National Bank as
a base offspring of the funding system; finally, in detail, of the excise law of March 3, 1791.
At this meeting James Marshall and David Bradford represented Washington County.

In August government offices of inspection were opened. The spirit of resistance was now fully
aroused, and in the early days of September the collectors for Washington, Westmoreland, and
Fayette were treated with violence. Unwilling to proceed to excessive measures, and no doubt
swayed by the attitude of the Pennsylvania legislature, Congress in October referred the law
back to Hamilton for revision. He reported an amended act on March 6, 1792, which was immediately
passed, and became a law March 8. It was to take effect on the last day of June succeeding.
By it the rate of duty was reduced, a privilege of time as to the running of licenses of stills
granted, and the tax ordered only for such time as they were actually used.

But these modifications did not satisfy the malcontents of the four western counties, and they
met again on August 21, 1792, at Pittsburgh. Of this second Pittsburgh meeting Albert Gallatin
was chosen secretary. Badollet went up with Gallatin. John Smilie, James Marshall, and James
Bradford of Washington County were present. Bradford, Marshall, Gallatin, and others were appointed
to draw up a remonstrance to Congress.

If such an excommunication were to be meted out to an offending neighbor, what measure would
the excise man receive if he came from abroad on his unwelcome errand?

These resolutions were signed by Mr. Gallatin as clerk, and made public through the press.
Resolutions of this character, if not criminal, reach the utmost limit of indiscretion, and
political indiscretion is quite as dangerous as crime. The petition to Congress, subscribed
by the inhabitants of western Pennsylvania, was drawn by Gallatin; while explicit in terms,
it was moderate in tone. It represented the unequal operation of the act.

Hamilton, indignant, reported the proceedings to the President on September 9, 1792, and demanded
instant punishment. Washington, who was at Mount Vernon, was unwilling to go to extremes, but
consented to issue a proclamation, which, drafted by Hamilton, and countersigned by Jefferson,
was published September 15, 1792. It earnestly admonished all persons to desist from unlawful
combinations to obstruct the operations of the laws, and charged all courts, magistrates, and
officers with their enforcement. There was no mistaking Hamilton's intention to enforce the
law. Prosecutions in the Circuit Court, held at Yorktown in October, were ordered against the
Pittsburgh offenders, but no proof could be had to sustain an indictment.

The President's proclamation startled the western people, and some uneasiness was felt as to
how such of their representatives as had taken part in the Pittsburgh meeting would be received
when they should go up to the legislature in the winter. Bradford and Smilie accompanied Gallatin;
Smilie to take his seat in the state Senate, and Bradford to represent Washington County in
the House, where he "cut a poor figure." Gallatin despised him, and characterized him as a
"tenth-rate lawyer and an empty drum." Gallatin found, however, that although the Pittsburgh
meeting had hurt the general interest of his party throughout the State, and "rather defeated"
the repeal of the excise law, his eastern friends did not turn the cold shoulder to him. He
said to every one whom he knew that the resolutions were perhaps too violent and undoubtedly
highly impolitic, but, in his opinion, contained nothing illegal. Meanwhile federal officers
proceeded to enforce the law in Washington County. A riot ensued, and the office was forcibly
closed. Bills were found against two of the offenders in the federal court, and warrants to
arrest and bring them to Philadelphia for trial were issued. Gallatin believed the men innocent,
and did not hesitate to advise Badollet to keep them out of the way when the marshal should
go to serve the writs, but deprecated any insult to the officer. He thought "the precedent
a very dangerous one to drag people such a distance in order to be tried on governmental prosecutions."
Here the matter rested for a season.

At this session of the legislature Gallatin introduced a new system of county taxation, proposed
a clause providing for "trustees yearly elected, one to each township, without whose consent
no tax is to be raised, nor any above one per cent. on the value of lands," which he hoped
would "tend to crush the aristocracy of every town in the State." Also he proposed a plan to
establish a school and library in each county, with a sufficient immediate sum in money, and
a yearly allowance for a teacher in the English language.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: The drafting of this letter was, notwithstanding his protest, intrusted to John
Jay, one of the strongest of the Federal leaders, and a warm supporter of the Constitution
as it stood.]

CHAPTER III

UNITED STATES SENATE

The death of the grandfather of Mr. Gallatin, and soon after of his aunt, strongly tempted
him to make a journey to Geneva in the summer of 1793. The political condition of Europe at
that time was of thrilling interest. On January 21 the head of Louis XVI. fell under the guillotine,
to which Marie Antoinette soon followed him. The armies of the coalition were closing in upon
France. Of the political necessity for these state executions there has always been and will
always be different judgments. That of Mr. Gallatin is of peculiar value. It is found expressed
in intimate frankness in a letter to his friend Badollet, written at Philadelphia, February
1, 1794.

     "France at present offers a spectacle unheard of at any other
     period. Enthusiasm there produces an energy equally terrible and
     sublime. All those virtues which depend upon social or family
     affections, all those amiable weaknesses, which our natural
     feelings teach us to love or respect, have disappeared before the
     stronger, the only, at present, powerful passion, the Amor
     Patriæ. I must confess my soul is not enough steeled, not
     sometimes to shrink at the dreadful executions which have restored
     at least apparent internal tranquillity to that republic. Yet upon
     the whole, as long as the combined despots press upon every
     frontier, and employ every engine to destroy and distress the
     interior parts, I think they, and they alone, are answerable for
     every act of severity or injustice, for every excess, nay for every
     crime, which either of the contending parties in France may have
     committed."

Within a few years the publication of the correspondence of De Fersen, the agent of the king
and queen, has supplied the proof of the charge that they were in secret correspondence with
the allied sovereigns to introduce foreign troops upon the soil of France,--a crime which no
people has ever condoned.

The French Revolution, which from its beginning in 1789 reacted upon the United States with
fully the force that the American Revolution exerted upon France, had become an important factor
in American politics. The intemperance of Genet, the minister of the French Convention to the
United States on the one hand, and the breaches of neutrality by England on the other, were
dividing the American people into English and French parties. The Federalists sympathized with
the English, the late enemies, and the Republicans with the French, the late allies, of the
United States.

Mr. Gallatin had about made up his mind to visit Europe, when an unexpected political honor
changed his plans. The Pennsylvania legislature elected him a senator of the United States
on joint ballot, a distinction the more singular in that the legislature was Federalist and
Mr. Gallatin was a representative of a Republican district, and strong in that faith. Moreover,
he was not a candidate either of his own motion or by that of his friends, but, on the contrary,
had doubts as to his eligibility because of insufficient residence. This objection, which he
himself stated in caucus, was disregarded, and on February 28, 1793, by a vote of 45 to 37,
he was chosen senator. Mr. Gallatin had just completed his thirty-second year, and now a happy
marriage came opportunely to stimulate his ambition and smooth his path to other honors.

Among the friends made at Philadelphia was Alexander J. Dallas, a gentleman two years Gallatin's
senior, whose career, in some respects, resembled his own. He was born in Jamaica, of Scotch
parents; had been thoroughly educated at Edinburgh and Westminster, and, coming to the United
States in 1783, had settled in Philadelphia. He now held the post of secretary of state for
Pennsylvania. Mr. Gallatin's constant committee service brought him into close relations with
the secretary, and the foundation was laid of a lasting political friendship and social intimacy.
In the recess of the legislature, Mr. Gallatin joined Mr. Dallas and his wife in an excursion
to the northward. Mr. Gallatin's health had suffered from close confinement and too strict
attention to business, and he needed recreation and diversion. In the course of the journey
the party was joined by some ladies, friends of Mrs. Dallas, among whom was Miss Hannah Nicholson.
The excursion lasted nearly four weeks. The result was that Mr. Gallatin returned to Philadelphia
the accepted suitor of this young lady. He describes her in a letter to Badollet as "a girl
about twenty-five years old, who is neither handsome nor rich, but sensible, well-informed,
good-natured, and belonging to a respectable and very amiable family." Nor was he mistaken
in his choice,--a more charming nature, a more perfect, well-rounded character than hers is
rarely found. They were married on November 11, 1793. She was his faithful companion throughout
his long and honorable career, and death separated them but by a few months. This alliance
greatly widened his political connection.

Commodore James Nicholson, his wife's father, famous in the naval annals of the United States
as the captain of the Trumbull, the first of American frigates, at the time resided in New
York, and was one of the acknowledged leaders of the Republican party in the city. His two
brothers--Samuel and John--were captains in the naval service. His two elder daughters were
married to influential gentlemen;--Catharine to Colonel Few, senator from Georgia; Frances,
to Joshua Seney, member of Congress from Maryland; Maria later (1809) married John Montgomery,
who had been member of Congress from Maryland, and was afterwards mayor of Baltimore. A son,
James Witter Nicholson, then a youth of twenty-one, was, in 1795, associated with Mr. Gallatin
in his Western Company, and, removing to Fayette, made his home in what was later and is now
known as New Geneva. Here, in connection with Mr. Gallatin and the brothers Kramer, Germans,
he established extensive glass works, which proved profitable.

        *        *        *        *        *

Mr. Gallatin's election to the United States Senate did not disqualify him for his unfinished
legislative term, and, on his return to Philadelphia, he was again plunged in his manifold
duties. The few days which intervened between his marriage and the meeting of Congress--a short
honeymoon--were spent under the roof of Commodore Nicholson in New York.

On February 28, 1793, the Vice-President laid before the Senate a certificate from the legislature
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to the election of Albert Gallatin as senator of the United
States. Mr. Gallatin took his seat December 2, 1793. The business of the session was opened
by the presentation of a petition signed by nineteen individuals of Yorktown, Pennsylvania,
stating that Mr. Gallatin had not been nine years a citizen of the United States. This petition
had been handed to Robert Morris, Mr. Gallatin's colleague for Pennsylvania, by a member of
the legislature for the county of York, but he had declined to present it, and declared to
Mr. Gallatin his intention to be perfectly neutral on the occasion--at least so Mr. Gallatin
wrote to his wife the next day; but Morris did not hold fast to this resolution, as the votes
in the sequel show. The petition was ordered to lie upon the table. On December 11 Messrs.
Rutherford, Cabot, Ellsworth, Livermore, and Mitchell were appointed a committee to consider
the petition. These gentlemen, Gallatin wrote, were undoubtedly "the worst for him that could
have been chosen, and did not seem to him to be favorably disposed." He himself considered
the legal point involved as a nice and difficult one, and likely to be decided by a party vote.

Mr. Gallatin landed in Massachusetts in July, 1780, while still a minor. His residence, therefore,
which had been uninterrupted, extended over thirteen years. He took the oath of citizenship
and allegiance to Virginia in October, 1785, since which, until his election in 1793, nine
years, the period called for by the United States Constitution, had not elapsed. On the one
hand, his actual residence exceeded the required period of citizenship; on the other, his legal
and technical residence as a citizen was insufficient. In point of fact, his intention to become
a citizen dated from the summer of 1783.

To take from the case the air of party proscription, which it was beginning to assume, the
Senate discharged its special committee, and raised a general committee on elections to consider
this and other cases. On February 10, 1794, the report of this committee was submitted, and
a day was set for a hearing by the Senate, with open doors. On that day Mr. Gallatin exhibited
a written statement of facts, agreed to between himself and the petitioners, and the case was
left to the Senate on its merits. The yeas and nays were required, and the Senate divided as
before. The resolution was then put and adopted by the same vote. Thus Mr. Gallatin, thirteen
years a resident of the country, a large land-holder in Virginia, and for several terms a member
of the Pennsylvania legislature, was excluded from a seat in the Senate of the United States.

Mr. Gallatin conducted his case with great dignity. On being asked whether he had any testimony
to produce, he replied, in writing, that there was not sufficient matter charged in the petition
and proved by the testimony to vacate his seat, and declined to go to the expense of collecting
evidence until that preliminary question was settled.

Short as the period was during which Mr. Gallatin held his seat, it was long enough for him
seriously to annoy the Federal leaders. Indeed, it is questionable whether, if he had delayed
his embarrassing motion, a majority of the Senate could have been secured against him. Certain
it is that the Committee on Elections, appointed on December 11, did not send in its report
until the day after Mr. Gallatin moved his resolution, calling upon the secretary of the treasury
for an elaborate statement of the debt on January 1, 1794, under distinct heads, including
the balances to creditor States, a statement of loans, domestic and foreign, contracted from
the beginning of the government, statements of exports and imports; finally for a summary statement
of the receipts and expenditures to the last day of December, 1790, distinguishing the moneys
received under each branch of the revenue and the moneys expended under each of the appropriations,
and stating the balances of each branch of the revenue remaining unexpended on that day, and
also calling for similar and separate statements for the years 1791, 1792, 1793. This resolution,
introduced on January 8, was laid over. On the 20th it was adopted. It was not until February
10 that a reply from the secretary of the treasury was received by the Senate, and on the 11th
submitted to Gallatin, Ellsworth, and Taylor for consideration and report. In this letter (February
6, 1794) Hamilton stated the difficulty of supplying the precise information called for, with
the clerical forces of the department, the interruption it would cause in the daily routine
of the service, and deprecated the practice of such unexpected demands.

With this response of the secretary the inquiry fell to the ground, but it was neither forgotten
nor forgiven by his adherents, and Mr. Gallatin paid the penalty on at least one occasion.
This was years later, when he himself was secretary of the treasury. On March 2, 1803, the
day before the adjournment of Congress, Mr. Griswold, Federalist from Connecticut, attacked
the correctness of the accounts of the sinking fund, and demanded an answer to a resolution
of the House on the management of this bureau. Had such been his desire, Mr. Gallatin was foreclosed
from Hamilton's excuse. On the night of the 3d he sent in an elaborate statement which set
accusation at rest and criticism at defiance.

Mr. Gallatin's short stay in the Senate revealed to the Federalists the character of the man,
who, disdaining the lesser flight, checked only at the highest game. He accepted his exclusion
with perfect philosophy. Soon after the session opened he said, "My feelings cannot be much
hurt by an unfavorable decision, since having been elected is an equal proof of the confidence
the legislature of Pennsylvania reposed in me, and not being qualified, if it is so decided,
cannot be imputed to me as a fault." His exclusion was by no means a disadvantage to him. It
made common cause of the honor of Pennsylvania and his own; it endeared him to the Republicans
of his State as a martyr to their principles. It "secured him," to use his own words, "many
staunch" friends throughout the Union, and extended his reputation, hitherto local and confined,
over the entire land; more than all, it led him to the true field of political contest--the
House of Representatives of the people of the United States.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: The yeas and nays being required by one fifth of the senators present, there were:
Affirmative.--Bradley, Brown, Burr, Butler, Edwards, Gunn, Jackson, Langdon, Martin, Monroe,
Robinson, Taylor; 12.

Negative.--Bradford, Cabot, Ellsworth, Foster, Frelinghuysen, Hawkins, Izard, King, Livermore,
Mitchell, Morris, Potts, Strong, Vining; 14.]

CHAPTER IV

THE WHISKEY INSURRECTION

Mr. Gallatin was now out of public life. For eighteen months since he came up to the legislature
with his friends of the Pittsburgh convention, he had not returned to Fayette. His private
concerns were suffering in his absence. Neither his barn, his meadow, nor his house was finished
at the close of 1793. In May, 1794, he took his wife to his country home. Their hopes of a
summer of recreation and domestic comfort in the wild beauties of the Monongahela were not
to be realized. Before the end of June the peaceful country was in a state of mad agitation.

The seeds of political discontent, sown at Pittsburgh in 1792, had ripened to an abundant harvest.
An act passed by Congress June 5, 1794, giving to the state courts concurrent jurisdiction
in excise cases, removed the grievance of which Gallatin complained, the dragging of accused
persons to Philadelphia for trial, but was not construed to be retroactive in its operation.
The marshal, accordingly, found it to be his duty to serve the writs of May 31 against those
who had fallen under their penalties. These writs were returnable in Philadelphia. They were
served without trouble in Fayette County. Not so in Allegheny. Here on July 15, 1794, the marshal
had completed his service, when, while still in the execution of his office, and in company
with the inspector, he was followed and fired upon. The next day a body of men went to the
house of the marshal and demanded that he should deliver up his commission. They were fired
upon and dispersed, six were wounded, and the leader killed. A general rising followed. The
marshal's house, though defended by Major Kirkpatrick, with a squad from the Pittsburgh garrison,
was set on fire, with the adjacent buildings, and burned. On July 18 the insurgents sent a
deputation of two or three to Pittsburgh, to require of the marshal a surrender of the processes
in his possession, and of the inspector the resignation of his office. These demands were,
of course, rejected; but the officers, alarmed for their personal safety, left the town, and,
descending the Ohio by boat to Marietta, proceeded by a circuitous route to Philadelphia, and
made their report to the United States authorities.

This was the outbreak of the Western or Whiskey Insurrection. The excitement spread rapidly
through the western counties. Fayette County was not exempt from it. The collector's house
was broken into, and his commission taken from him by armed men; the sheriff refused to serve
the writs against the rioters of the spring. Since these disturbances there had been no trouble
in this county. But the malcontents elsewhere rose in arms, riots ensued, and the safety of
the whole community was compromised. The news reaching Fayette, the distillers held a meeting
at Uniontown, the county seat, on July 20. Both Gallatin and Smilie were present, and by their
advice it was agreed to submit to the laws. The neighboring counties were less fortunate. On
July 21 the Washington County committee was summoned to meet at Mingo Creek Meeting-house.
On the 23d there was a large assemblage of people, including a number of those who had been
concerned in burning the house of the Pittsburgh inspector. James Marshall, the same who opposed
the ratification of the federal Constitution, David Bradford, the "empty drum," and Judge Brackenridge
of Pittsburgh, attended this meeting. Bradford, the most unscrupulous of the leaders, sought
to shirk his responsibility, but was intimidated by threats, and thereafter did not dare to
turn back. Brackenridge was present to counsel the insurgents to moderation. In spite of his
efforts the meeting ended in an invitation, which the officers had not the boldness to sign,
to the townships of the four western counties of Pennsylvania and the adjoining counties of
Virginia to send representatives to a general meeting on August 14, at Parkinson's Ferry on
the Monongahela, in Washington County. Bradford, determined to aggravate the disturbance, stopped
the mail at Greensburg, on the road between Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, and robbed it of the
Washington and Pittsburgh letters, some of which he published, to the alarm of their authors.

On July 28 a circular signed by Bradford, Marshall, and others was sent out from Cannonsburg
to the militia of the county, whom it summoned for personal service, and likewise called for
volunteers to rendezvous the following Wednesday, July 30, at their respective places of meeting,
thence to march to Braddock's Field, on the Monongahela, the usual rendezvous of the militia,
about eight miles south of Pittsburgh, by two o'clock of Friday, August 1. It closed in these
words, "Here is an expedition proposed in which you will have an opportunity for displaying
your military talents and of rendering service to your country." Nothing less was contemplated
by the more extreme of these men than an attack upon Fort Pitt and the sack of Pittsburgh.
Thoroughly aroused at last, the moderate men of Washington determined to breast the storm.
A meeting was held; James Ross of the United States Senate made an earnest appeal, and was
supported by Scott of the House of Representatives and Stokely of the Senate of Pennsylvania.
Marshall and Bradford yielded, and consented to countermand the order of rendezvous. But the
excited population poured into the town from all quarters, and Bradford, who found that he
had gone too far to retreat, again took the lead of the movement, already beyond restraint.

There are accounts of this formidable insurrection by H. H. Brackenridge and William Findley,
eye-witnesses. These supply abundant details. Findley says that he knew that the movement would
not stop at the limit apparently set for it. "The opposing one law would lead to oppose another;
they would finally oppose all, and demand a new modeling of the Constitution, and there would
be a revolution." There was great alarm in Pittsburgh. A meeting was held there Thursday evening,
July 31, at which a message from the Washington County insurgents was read, violent resolutions
adopted, and the 9th of August appointed as the day for a town meeting for election of delegates
to a general convention of the counties at Parkinson's Ferry; Judge Brackenridge of Pittsburgh,
a man of education, influence, and infinite jest and humor, was present at this meeting. Of
Scotch-Irish birth himself, his sympathies of race were with his countrymen, but in political
sentiments he was not in harmony with their leaders. They were nearly all Republicans, while
he had sided with the Federalists in the convention which adopted the new Constitution of the
United States. He was a man of peace, and of too much sagacity not to foresee the inevitable
ruin upon which they were rushing. At Mingo Creek he had thwarted the plans of immediate revolution.
The evident policy of moderate men was to prevent any violence before the convention at Parkinson's
Ferry should meet, and to bend all their energies to control the deliberations of that body.
The people of Pittsburgh were intensely excited by the armed gathering almost at their doors.

Brackenridge felt that the only safe issue from the situation was to take part in and shape
the action of that gathering. Under his lead a committee from the Pittsburgh meeting, followed
by a large body of the citizens, went out to the rendezvous. Here they found a motley assemblage,
arrayed in the picturesque campaign costume which the mountaineers wore when they equipped
themselves to meet the Indians,--yellow hunting-shirts, handkerchiefs tied about their heads,
and rifles on the shoulder; the militia were on foot, and the light horse of the counties were
in military dress. Conspicuous about the field, "haughty and pompous," as Gallatin described
him in the legislature, was David Bradford, who had assumed the office of major-general. Brackenridge
draws a lifelike picture of him as, mounted on a superb horse in splendid trappings, arrayed
in full uniform, with plume floating in the air and sword drawn, he rode over the ground, gave
orders to the military, and harangued the multitude. On the historic ground where Washington
plucked his first military laurels were gathered about seven thousand men, of whom two thousand
militia were armed and accoutred as for a campaign,--a formidable and remarkable assemblage,
when it is considered that the entire male population of sixteen years of age and upwards of
the four counties did not exceed sixteen thousand, and was scattered over a wide and unsettled
country. This is Brackenridge's estimate of the numbers. Later, Gallatin, on comparison of
the best attainable information, estimated the whole body at from fifteen hundred to two thousand
men. Whatever violence Bradford may have intended, none was accomplished. That he read aloud
the Pittsburgh letters, taken from the mail, shows his purpose to inflame the people to vindictive
violence. He was accused by contemporary authorities of imitation of the methods of the French
Jacobins, which were fresh examples of revolutionary vigor. But the mass was not persuaded.
After desultory conversation and discussion, the angry turn of which was at times threatening
to the moderate leaders, the meeting broke up on August 2; about one third dispersed for their
homes, and the remainder, marching to Pittsburgh, paraded through the streets, and finally
crossing the river in their turn scattered. They did no damage to the town beyond the burning
of a farm belonging to Major Kirkpatrick of the garrison. The taverns were all closed, but
the citizens brought whiskey to their doors. Judge Brackenridge reports that his sacrifice
to peace on this occasion cost him four barrels of his best old rye.

This moderation was no augury of permanent quiet. Brackenridge, who was a keen observer of
men, says of the temper of the western population at this period: "I had seen the spirit which
prevailed at the Stamp Act, and at the commencement of the revolution from the government of
Great Britain, but it was by no means so general and so vigorous amongst the common people
as the spirit which now existed in the country." Nor did the armed bands all return peaceably
to their homes. The house of the collector for Fayette and Washington counties was burned,
and warnings were given to those who were disposed to submit to the law. The disaffected were
called "Tom the tinker" men, from the signature affixed to the threatening notices. From a
passage in one of Gallatin's letters it appears that there was a person of that name, a New
England man, who had been concerned in Shays's insurrection. Liberty poles, with the device,
"An equal tax and no excise law," were raised, and the trees placarded with the old revolutionary
motto, "United we stand, divided we fall," with a divided snake as an emblem. Mr. Gallatin's
neighborhood was not represented at Braddock's Field, and not more than a dozen were present
from the entire county. But now the flame spread there also, and liberty poles were raised.
Mr. Gallatin himself, inquiring as to their significance and expressing to the men engaged
the hope that they would not behave like a mob, was asked, in return, if he was not aware of
the Westmoreland resolution that any one calling the people a mob should be tarred and feathered,--an
amusing example of that mob logic which proves the affirmative of the proposition it denies.

Mr. Gallatin did not attend the meeting at Braddock's Field. Somewhat isolated at his residence
at the southerly border of the county, engaged in the care of his long neglected farm, and
in the full enjoyment of release from the bustle and excitement of public life, he had paid
little attention to passing events. He was preparing definitively to abandon political pursuits
and to follow some kind of mercantile business, or take up some land speculation and study
law in his intervals of leisure. It was not a year since he had given hostages to fortune.
He was now in the full tide of domestic happiness, which was always to him the dearest and
most coveted. He might well have hesitated before again engaging upon the dangerous and uncertain
task of controlling an excited and aggrieved population. But he did not hesitate.

The people among whom he had made his home, and whose confidence had never failed him, were
his people. By them he would stand in their extremity, and if hurt or ruin befell them, it
should not be for want of the interposition of his counsel. He knew his powers, and he determined
to bring them into full play. He knew the danger also, but it only nerved him to confront and
master it. He knew his duty, and did not swerve one hair from the line it prompted. In no part
of his long, varied, and useful political life does he appear to better advantage than in this
exciting episode of the Whiskey Insurrection. His self-possession, his cool judgment, swayed
neither by timidity nor rashness, never for a moment failed him. Here he displayed that remarkable
combination of persuasion and control,--the indispensable equipment of a political chief,--which,
in later days, gave him the leadership of the Republican party. With intuitive perception of
the political situation he saw that the only path to safety, beset with difficulty and danger
though it were, was through the convention at Parkinson's Ferry. He did not believe that any
revolutionary proceedings had yet been taken, or that the convention was an illegal body, but
he was determined to separate the wheat from the chaff, and disengage the moderate and the
law-abiding from the disorderly. By the light of his own experience he had learned wisdom.
He also had drawn a lesson from the French Revolution, and knew the uncontrollable nature of
large popular assemblages. The news from Philadelphia, the seat of government, was of a kind
to increase his alarm. Washington was not the man to overlook such an insult to authority as
the resistance to the marshal and inspector; nor was it probable that Hamilton would let pass
such an occasion for showing the strength and vigor of the government.

Before the meeting at Braddock's Field, the secretary's plans for a suppression of the insurrection
were matured. On August 2 he laid before the President an estimate of the probable armed force
of the insurgents, and of that with which he proposed to reduce them to submission. When the
question of the use of force came before the cabinet, Edmund Randolph, who was secretary of
state, opposed it in a written opinion, one phrase of which deserves repetition:--

     "It is a fact well known that the parties in the United States are
     highly inflamed against each other, and that there is but one
     character which keeps both in awe. As soon as the sword shall be
     drawn, who shall be able to retain them."

Mifflin, the governor of Pennsylvania, deprecated immediate resort to force; the venerable
Chief Justice McKean suggested the sending of commissioners on the part of the federal and
state governments. Washington, with perfect judgment, combined these plans, and happily allied
conciliation with force. A proclamation was issued on August 7 summoning all persons involved
in the disturbance to lay down their arms and repair to their homes by September 1. Requisitions
were made upon the governors of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and New Jersey for fifteen
thousand men in all, and a joint commission of five was raised,--three of whom on the part
of the United States were appointed by the President, and two on the part of the State of Pennsylvania.
This news was soon known at Pittsburgh, and rapidly spread through the adjacent country; and
it was clear that in the proceedings to be taken at Parkinson's Ferry the question of resistance
or submission must be definitively settled. On August 14, 1794, the convention assembled; two
hundred and twenty-six delegates in all, of whom ninety-three were from Washington, forty-nine
from Westmoreland, forty-three from Allegheny, thirty-three from Fayette, two from Bedford,
five from Ohio County in Virginia, with spectators to about the same number.

Parkinson's Ferry, later called Williamsport, and now Monongahela City, is on the left bank
of the Monongahela, about half way between Pittsburgh and Red Stone Old Fort or Brownsville.
Brackenridge pictures the scene with his usual local color: "Our hall was a grove, and we might
well be called 'the Mountain' (an allusion to the radical left of the French convention), for
we were on a very lofty ground overlooking the river. We had a gallery of lying timber and
stumps, and there were more people collected there than there was of the committee." In full
view of the meeting stood a liberty pole, raised in the morning by the men who signed the Braddock's
Field circular order, and it bore the significant motto, "Liberty and no excise and no asylum
for cowards." Among the delegates, or the committee, to use their own term, were Bradford,
Marshall, Brackenridge, Findley, and Gallatin. Before the meeting was organized, Marshall came
to Gallatin and showed him the resolutions which he intended to move, intimating at the same
time that he wished Mr. Gallatin to act as secretary. Mr. Gallatin told him that he highly
disapproved the resolutions, and had come to oppose both him and Bradford, and therefore did
not wish to serve. Marshall seemed to waver; but soon the people met, and Edward Cook of Fayette,
who had presided at Braddock's Field, was chosen chairman, with Gallatin for secretary. Bradford
opened the proceedings with a summary sketch of the action previously taken, declared the purpose
of the committee to be to determine on a course of action, and his own views to be the appointment
of committees to raise money, purchase arms, enlist volunteers, or draft the militia: in a
word, though he did not use it, to levy war.

At this point in the proceedings the arrival of the commissioners from the President was announced,
but the progress of the meeting was not interrupted. The commissioners were at a house near
the meeting, but there were serious objections against holding a conference at this place.

Marshall then moved his resolutions. The first, declaratory of the grievance of carrying citizens
great distances for trial, was unanimously agreed to. The second called for a committee of
public safety "to call forth the resources of the western country to repel any hostile attempts
that may be made against the rights of the citizens, or of the body of the people." Had this
resolution been adopted, the people were definitively committed to overt rebellion. This brought
Mr. Gallatin at once to his feet. He denied that any hostile attempts against the rights of
the people were threatened, and drew an adroit distinction between the regular army, which
had not been called out, and the militia, who were a part of the people themselves; and to
gain time he moved a reference of the resolutions to a committee who should be instructed to
wait the action of the government. In the course of his speech Gallatin denied the assertion
that resistance to the excise law was legal, or that coercion by the government was necessarily
hostile. He was neither supported by his own friends nor opposed by those of Bradford. He stood
alone.

But Marshall withdrew his resolution, and a committee of sixty was appointed, with power to
summon the people. The only other objectionable resolution was that which pledged the people
to the support of the laws, except the excise law and the taking of citizens out of their counties
for trial,--an exception which Gallatin succeeded in having stricken out. He then urged the
adoption of the resolution, without the exception, as necessary "to the establishment of the
laws and the conservation of the peace," and here he was supported by Brackenridge. The entire
resolutions were finally referred to a committee of four,--Gallatin, Bradford, Husbands, and
Brackenridge. The meeting then adjourned. The next morning a standing committee of sixty was
chosen, one from each township. From these a committee of twelve was selected to confer with
the government commissioners. Upon this committee were Cook, the chairman, Bradford, Marshall,
Gallatin, Brackenridge, and Edgar. The meeting then adjourned.

Upon this representative body there seems to have been no outside pressure. The proclamation
of the President, which arrived while it was in session, showed the determination, while the
appointment of the commission showed the moderation, of the government. Gallatin availed of
each circumstance with consummate adroitness, pointing out to the desperate the folly of resistance,
and to the moderate an issue for honorable retreat.

Meanwhile, the commissioners reached Pittsburgh, where on August 20 the committee of conference
was received by them, and an informal understanding arrived at, which was put in writing. The
laws were to be enforced with as little inconvenience to the people as possible. All criminal
suits for indictable offenses were to be dropped, but civil suits were to take their course.
Notice was given that a definitive submission must be made by September 1 following. On the
22d the conference committee answered that they must consult with the committee of sixty. Thursday
the 28th was appointed for a meeting at Red Stone Old Fort, the very spot where the original
resolutions of opposition were passed in 1791. In the report drawn up every member of the twelve,
except Bradford, favored submission.

The hour was critical, the deliberations were in the open air, and under the eyes of a threatening
party of seventy riflemen accidentally present from Washington County across the stream. Bradford,
who instinctively felt that he had placed himself beyond the pale of pardon, and to whom there
was no alternative to revolution but flight, pressed an instant decision and rejection of the
written terms of the commissioners. In the presence of personal danger, the conferrees only
dared to move that part of their report which advised acceptance of the proffered terms. The
question of submission they left untouched. An adjournment was obtained. The next day, to quote
the words of Brackenridge, "the committee having convened, Gallatin addressed the chair in
a speech of some hours. It was a piece of perfect eloquence, and was heard with attention and
without disturbance." Never was there a more striking instance of intellectual control over
a popular assemblage. He saved the western counties of Pennsylvania from anarchy and civil
war. He was followed by Brackenridge, who, warned by the example of his companion, or encouraged
by the quiet of the assemblage, supported him with vigor. Bradford, on the other hand, faced
the issue with directness and savage vehemence. He repelled the idea of submission, and insisted
upon an independent government and a declaration of war. Edgar of Washington rejoined in support
of the report. Gallatin now demanded a vote, but the twelve conferrees alone supported him.
He then proposed an informal vote, but without result. Finally a secret ballot was proposed
by a member. A hat was passed, and when the slips of paper were taken out, there were thirty-four
yeas and twenty-three nays. The report was declared to be adopted, and amid the scowls of the
armed witnesses the meeting adjourned; not, however, before a new committee of conference had
been appointed. On this new committee not one of the old leaders was named. They evidently
knew the folly of further delay, or of attempting to secure better terms. As his final act
Colonel Cook, the chairman of the standing committee of sixty, indorsed the resolution adopted.
It declared it to be "to the interest of the people of the country to accede to the proposals
made by the commissioners on the part of the United States." This was duly forwarded, with
request for a further conference. The commissioners consented, but declined to postpone the
time of taking the sense of the people beyond September 11.

William Findley said of the famous and critical debate at Red Stone: "I had never heard speeches
that I more ardently desired to see in print than those delivered on this occasion. They would
not only be valuable on account of the oratory and information displayed in all the three,
and especially in Gallatin's, who opened the way, but they would also have been the best history
of the spirit and the mistakes which then actuated men's minds." Findley, in his allotment
of the honors of the day, considers that "the verbal alterations made by Gallatin saved the
question." Brackenridge thought that his own seeming to coincide with Bradford prevented the
declaration of war; and he has been credited with having saved the western counties from the
horrors of civil war, Pittsburgh from destruction, and the Federal Union from imminent danger.

Historians have agreed in according to Gallatin the honor of this field day. It was left to
John C. Hamilton, half a century later, to charge a want of courage upon Gallatin,--a baseless
charge.[3] Not Malesherbes, the noble advocate defending the accused monarch before the angry
French convention, with the certainty of the guillotine as the reward of his generosity, is
more worthy of admiration than Gallatin boldly pleading the cause of order within rifle range
of an excited band of lawless frontiersmen. If, as he confessed later, in his part in the Pittsburgh
resolutions he was guilty of "a political sin," he nobly atoned for it under circumstances
that would have tried the courage of men bred to danger and to arms. Sin it was, and its consequences
were not yet summed up. For although the back of the insurrection was broken at Red Stone Old
Fort, there was much yet to be done before submission could be completed.

Bradford attempted to sign, but found that his course at Red Stone Old Fort had placed him
outside the amnesty. Well might the moderate men say in their familiar manner of Scripture
allusion, "Dagon is fallen." He fled down the Ohio and Mississippi to Louisiana, then foreign
soil. The commissioners waited at Pittsburgh for the signatures of adhesion on September 10,
which was the last day allowed by the terms of amnesty. They required that meetings should
be held on this day in the several townships; the presiding officers to report the result to
commissioner Ross at Uniontown the 16th of the same month, on which day he would set out for
Philadelphia. The time was inadequate, but there was no help. Gallatin hastened the submission
of Fayette, and a meeting of committees from the several townships met at the county seat,
Uniontown, on September 10, 1794, when a declaration drawn by Mr. Gallatin was unanimously
adopted. A passage in this admirable paper shows the comparative order which prevailed in Fayette
County during this period of trouble. It is an appeal to the people of the neighboring counties,
who, under the influence of their passions and resentment, might blame those of Fayette for
their moderation.

     "The only reflection we mean to suggest to them is the
     disinterestedness of our conduct upon this occasion. The indictable
     offences to be buried in oblivion were committed amongst them, and
     almost every civil suit that has been instituted under the revenue
     law, in the federal court, was commenced against citizens of this
     county. By the terms proposed, the criminal prosecutions are to be
     dropped, but no condition could be obtained for the civil suits. We
     have been instrumental in obtaining an amnesty, from which those
     alone who had a share in the riots derive a benefit, and the other
     inhabitants of the western country have gained nothing for
     themselves."

This declaration was forwarded on September 17 to Governor Mifflin, with reasons for the delay,
and advice that signatures were fast being obtained, not only in the neighboring counties,
but even in Fayette, where this formality had not been thought necessary. It closes with a
forcible appeal to delay the sending of troops until every conciliatory measure should have
proved abortive.

But the commissioners, unfortunately, were not favorably impressed with the reception they
met with or the scenes they witnessed on their western mission. They had heard of Bradford's
threat to establish an independent government west of the mountains, and they had seen a liberty
pole raised upon which the people with the greatest difficulty had been dissuaded from hoisting
a flag with six stripes--emblematic of the six counties represented in the committee. The flag
was made, but set aside for the fifteen stripes with reluctance. This is Findley's recollection,
but Brackenridge says that it was a flag of seven stars for the four western counties, Bedford,
and the two counties of Virginia. This, he adds, was the first and only manifestation among
any class of a desire to separate from the Union. But here his memory failed him.

Hamilton had long been impatient. Again, as in old days, he presented his arguments directly
to the people. Under the heading, "Tully to the people of the United States," he printed a
letter on August 26, of which the following is a passage:--

     "Your representatives in Congress, pursuant to the commission
     derived from you, and with a full knowledge of the public
     exigencies, have laid an excise. At three succeeding sessions they
     have revised that act ... and you have actually paid more than a
     million of dollars on account of it. But the four western counties
     of Pennsylvania undertake to rejudge and reverse your decrees.
     You have said, 'The Congress shall have power to lay
     excises.' They say, 'The Congress shall not have this power;'
     or, what is equivalent, they shall not exercise it, for a power
     that may not be exercised is a nullity. Your representatives have
     said, and four times repeated it, 'An excise on distilled spirits
     shall be collected;' they say, 'It shall not be collected. We
     will punish, expel, and banish the officers who shall attempt the
     collection.'"

The peace commissioners returned to Philadelphia and made their report on September 24. The
next day, September 25, Washington issued a proclamation calling out the troops. In it he again
warned the insurgents. The militia, already armed, accoutred, and equipped, and awaiting marching
orders, moved at once. Governor Mifflin at first hesitated about his power to call out the
militia, but when the President's requisition was made, he summoned the legislature in special
session, and obtained from it a hearty support, with authority to accept volunteers and offer
a bounty. Thus fortified, he made a tour through the lower counties of the State, and by his
extraordinary popular eloquence soon filled up the ranks. The old soldier led his troops in
person. Those of New Jersey were commanded by their governor, Richard Howell of Revolutionary
fame. These formed the right wing and marched to rendezvous at Bedford to cross the mountains
by the northern and Pennsylvania route. The left wing, composed of the Virginia troops, under
the veteran Morgan, and those of Maryland, under Samuel Smith, a brigadier-general in the army
of the Revolution, assembled at Cumberland to cross the mountains by Braddock's Road. The chief
command was confided to Governor Henry Lee of Virginia. Washington accompanied the army as
far as Bedford. Hamilton continued with it to Pittsburgh, which was reached in the last days
of October and the first of November, after a wearisome march across the mountains in heavy
weather. Arrived in the western counties, the army found no opposition.

Meanwhile, on October 2, the standing committee met again at Parkinson's Ferry, and unanimously
adopted resolutions declaring the general submission, and explaining the reasons why signatures
to the amnesty had not been general. Findley and Redick were appointed to take these resolutions
to the President, and to urge him to stop the march of the troops. They met the left wing at
Carlisle. Washington received them courteously, but did not consent to countermand the march.
They hurried back for more unequivocal assurances, which they hoped to be able to carry to
meet Washington on his way to review the right wing. On October 14, the day of the autumn elections,
general submissions were universally signed, and finally, on October 24, a third and last meeting
was held at Parkinson's Ferry, at which a thousand people attended, when, with James Edgar,
chairman, and Albert Gallatin, secretary, it was resolved, first, that the civil authority
was fully competent to punish both past and future breaches of the law; secondly, that surrender
should be made of all persons charged with offenses, in default of which the committee would
aid in bringing them to justice; thirdly, that offices of inspection might be opened, and that
the distillers were willing and ready to enter their stills.

These resolutions were published in the "Pittsburgh Gazette." Findley carried them to Bedford,
but before he reached the army the President had returned to Philadelphia. The march of the
army was not stopped. The two wings made a junction at Uniontown. Companies of horse were scattered
through the country. New submissions were made, and the oath of allegiance, required by General
Lee, was generally taken.

Hamilton now investigated the whole matter of the insurrection, and it was charged against
him, and the charge is supported by Findley, with names of persons, that he spared no effort
to secure evidence to bring Gallatin within the pale of an indictment. Of course he failed
in this purpose, if indeed it were ever seriously entertained. But the belief that Gallatin
was the arch-fiend, who instigated the Whiskey Insurrection, had already become a settled article
in the Federalist creed, and for a quarter of a century, long after the Federalist party had
become a tradition of the past, the Genevan was held up to scorn and hatred, as an incarnation
of deviltry--an enemy of mankind.

On the 8th of November, Hamilton, who remained with the army, wrote to the President that General
Lee had concluded to take hold of all who are worth the trouble by the military arm, and then
to deliver them over to the disposition of the judiciary. In the mean time, he adds, "all possible
means are using to obtain evidence, and accomplices will be turned against the others."

The night of November 13, 1794, was appointed for the arrests; a dreadful night Findley describes
it to have been. The night was frosty; at eight o'clock the horse sallied forth, and before
daylight arrested in their beds about two hundred men. The New Jersey horse made the seizures
in the Mingo Creek settlement, the hot-bed of the insurrection and the scene of the early excesses.
The prisoners were taken to Pittsburgh, and thence, mounted on horses, and guarded by the Philadelphia
Gentlemen Corps, to the capital. Their entrance into Cannonsburg is graphically described by
Dr. Carnahan, president of Princeton College, in his account of the insurrection.

     "The contrast between the Philadelphia horsemen and the prisoners
     was the most striking that can be imagined. The Philadelphians were
     some of the most wealthy and respectable men of that city. Their
     uniform was blue, of the finest broadcloth. Their horses were large
     and beautiful, all of a bay color, so nearly alike that it seemed
     that every two of them would make a good span of coach horses.
     Their trappings were superb. Their bridles, stirrups, and
     martingales glittered with silver. Their swords, which were drawn,
     and held elevated in the right hand, gleamed in the rays of the
     setting sun. The prisoners were also mounted on horses of all
     shapes, sizes, and colors; some large, some small, some long tails,
     some short, some fat, some lean, some every color and form that can
     be named. Some had saddles, some blankets, some bridles, some
     halters, some with stirrups, some with none. The riders also were
     various and grotesque in their appearance. Some were old, some
     young, some hale, respectable looking men; others were pale,
     meagre, and shabbily dressed. Some had great coats,--others had
     blankets on their shoulders. The countenance of some was downcast,
     melancholy, dejected; that of others, stern, indignant, manifesting
     that they thought themselves undeserving such treatment. Two
     Philadelphia horsemen rode in front and then two prisoners, and two
     horsemen and two prisoners, actually throughout a line extending
     perhaps half a mile.... If these men had been the ones chiefly
     guilty of the disturbance, it would have been no more than they
     deserved. But the guilty had signed the amnesty, or had left the
     county before the army approached."

Dallas, the secretary of state, Gallatin's friend, was one of this troop. Gallatin saw him
soon after his return. In a letter to his wife of December 3, Gallatin relates the experience
of the trooper who had little stomach for the work he had to do.

     "I saw Dallas yesterday. Poor fellow had a most disagreeable
     campaign of it. He says the spirits, I call it the madness, of the
     Philadelphia Gentlemen's Corps was beyond conception before the
     arrival of the President. He saw a list (handed about through the
     army by officers, nay, by a general officer) of the names of those
     persons who were to be destroyed at all events, and you may easily
     guess my own was one of the most conspicuous. Being one day at
     table with sundry officers, and having expressed his opinion that,
     if the army were going only to support the civil authority, and not
     to do any military execution, one of them (Dallas did not tell me
     his name, but I am told it was one Ross of Lancaster, aide-de-camp
     to Mifflin) half drew a dagger he wore instead of a sword, and
     swore any man who uttered such sentiments ought to be dagged. The
     President, however, on his arrival, and afterwards Hamilton, took
     uncommon pains to change the sentiments, and at last it became
     fashionable to adopt, or at least to express, sentiments similar to
     those inculcated by them."

Randolph was, perhaps, not far out of the way in his fear of a civil war should blood be drawn,
and in his conviction that the influence of Washington was the only sedative for the fevered
political pulse. On November 17 general orders were issued for the return of the army, a detachment
of twenty-five hundred men only remaining in the West, under command of General Morgan. There
were no further disturbances. The army expenses gave a circulating medium, and the farmers,
having now the means to pay their taxes, made no further complaints of the excise law. The
total expense of the insurrection to the government was $800,000.

Mr. Gallatin returned with his wife from his western home early in November. He had been again
chosen at the October elections to represent Fayette in the Pennsylvania Assembly. Moreover,
at the same time, he was elected to represent the congressional district of Washington and
Allegheny in the House of Representatives of the United States. Of four candidates Gallatin
led the poll. Judge Brackenridge was next in order. No better proof is needed of the firm hold
Gallatin had in the esteem and affection of the people. No doubt, either, that they understood
his principles, and relied upon his sincere attachment to the country he had made his home.

When he appeared to take his seat in the Assembly he found that his election was contested.
A petition was presented from thirty-four persons calling themselves peaceable citizens of
Washington County, which stated that their votes had not been cast, because of the disturbed
condition of the country, and requested the Assembly to declare the district to have been in
a state of insurrection at the time of the election, and to vacate the same. Mr. Gallatin knew
the person who procured the signatures, and also that the business originated in the army.
It was couched in terms insulting to all the members elect from that district. After a protracted
debate the election was declared void on January 9, 1795. It was during this debate that Mr.
Gallatin made the celebrated speech called "The speech on the western elections," in which
occurs the confession already alluded to. Speaking of the Pittsburgh resolutions of 1792, he
said:--

     "I might say that those resolutions did not originate at
     Pittsburgh, as they were almost a transcript of the resolutions
     adopted at Washington the preceding year; and I might even add that
     they were not introduced by me at the meeting. But I wish not to
     exculpate myself where I feel I have been to blame. The sentiments
     thus expressed were not illegal or criminal; yet I will freely
     acknowledge that they were violent, intemperate, and reprehensible.
     For, by attempting to render the office contemptible, they tended
     to diminish that respect for the execution of the laws which is
     essential to the maintenance of a free government; but whilst I
     feel regret at the remembrance, though no hesitation in this open
     confession of that my only political sin, let me add that the
     blame ought to fall where it is deserved."

This was the first speech of Gallatin that appeared in print--simple, lucid, convincing. The
result of the new Assembly election would naturally determine the right of the representatives
of the contested district to their seats in Congress. Word had gone forth from the Treasury
Department that Gallatin must not take his seat in Congress, and the whippers-in took heed
of the desire of their chief. A line of instruction to Badollet, who lived at Greensburg in
Washington County, across the river from Gallatin's residence, determined the matter. Gallatin
warned him against the attempt that would be made to disaffect that district because none of
the representatives whose seats had been vacated were residents of it. "Fall not into the snare,"
he wrote; "take up nobody from your own district; reëlect unanimously the same members, whether
they be your favorites or not. It is necessary for the sake of our general character." Here
is an instance of that true political instinct which made of him "the ideal party leader."
His advice was followed, and all the members were reëlected but one, who declined. Mr. Gallatin
returned to his seat in the Assembly on February 14, and retained it until March 12, when he
asked and obtained leave of absence. He does not appear to have taken further part in the session.
The subjects, personal to himself, which occupied his attention during the summer will be touched
upon elsewhere.

The pitiful business of the trial of the western prisoners needs only brief mention. In May
Gallatin was summoned before the grand jury as a witness on the part of the government. The
inquiry was finished May 12, and twenty-two bills were found for treason. Against Fayette two
bills were found; one for misdemeanor in raising the liberty pole in Uniontown. The petit jury
was composed of twelve men from each of the counties of Fayette, Washington, Allegheny, and
Northumberland, but none from Westmoreland. One man, a German from Westmoreland, who was concerned
in a riot in Fayette, was found guilty and condemned to death. Mr. Gallatin, at the request
of the jury, drew a petition to the President, who granted a pardon. Washington extended mercy
to the only other offender who incurred the same penalty.

To the close of this national episode, which, in its various phases of incident and character,
is of dramatic interest, Gallatin, through good repute and ill repute, stood manfully by his
constituents and friends.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: Hamilton's History of the Republic, vi. 96.]

CHAPTER V

MEMBER OF CONGRESS

The first session of the fourth Congress began at Philadelphia on Monday, December 7, 1795.
Washington was president, John Adams vice-president. No one of Washington's original constitutional
advisers remained in his cabinet. Jefferson retired from the State Department at the beginning
of the first session of the third Congress. Edmund Randolph, appointed in his place, resigned
in a cloud of obloquy on August 19, 1795, and the portfolio was temporarily in charge of Timothy
Pickering, secretary of war. Hamilton resigned the department of the Treasury on January 31,
1795, and Oliver Wolcott, Jr., succeeded him in that most important of the early offices of
the government. General Henry Knox, the first secretary of war, pressed by his own private
affairs and the interests of a large family, withdrew on December 28, 1794, and Timothy Pickering,
the postmaster-general, had been appointed in his stead January 2, 1795. The Navy Department
was not as yet established (the act creating it was passed April 30, 1798), but the affairs
which concerned this branch of the public service were under the direction of the secretary
of war. The administration of Washington was drawing to a close. In the lately reconstructed
cabinet, honest, patriotic, and thorough in administration, there was no man of shining mark.
The Senate was still in the hands of the Federal party. The bare majority which rejected Gallatin
in the previous Congress had increased to a sufficient strength for party purposes, but neither
in the ranks of the administration nor the opposition was there in this august assemblage one
commanding figure.

The House was nearly equally divided. The post of speaker was warmly contested. Frederick A.
Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania, who had presided over the House at the sessions of the first Congress,
1789-1791, and again over the third, 1793-1795, was the candidate of the Federalists, but was
defeated by Jonathan Dayton of New Jersey, whose views in the last session had drifted him
into sympathy with the Republican opposition. The House, when full, numbered one hundred and
five members, among whom were the ablest men in the country, veterans of debate versed in parliamentary
law and skilled in the niceties of party fence. In the Federal ranks, active, conscious of
their power, and proud of the great party which gloried in Washington as their chief, were
Robert Goodloe Harper of South Carolina, Theodore Sedgwick of Massachusetts, Roger Griswold
and Uriah Tracy of Connecticut, who led the front and held the wings of debate; while in reserve,
broken in health but still in the prime of life, the pride of his party and of the House, was
Fisher Ames, the orator of his day, whose magic tones held friend and foe in rapt attention,
while he mastered the reason or touched the heart. Upon these men the Federal party relied
for the vindication of their principles and the maintenance of their power. Supporting them
were William Vans Murray of Maryland, Goodrich and Hillhouse of Connecticut, William Smith
of South Carolina, Sitgreaves of Pennsylvania, and in the ranks a well-trained party. Opposed
to this formidable array of Federal talent was the Republican party, young, vigorous, and in
majority, bold in their ideas but as yet hesitating in purpose under the controlling if not
overruling influence of the name and popularity of Washington.

Hamilton watched the shifting fortunes of his party from a distance, and found time in the
pressure of a large legal practice to aid each branch of administration in turn with his advice.
But though he still inspired its councils, he no longer directed its course. In his Monticello
home Jefferson waited till the fruit was ripe for falling, occasionally impatient that his
followers did not more roughly shake the tree.

The open rupture of Jefferson with Hamilton was the first great break in the Federal administration;
the lukewarmness of Madison, whose leanings were always towards Jefferson, followed.

At the head of the Republican opposition was Madison. Wise in council, convincing in argument,
an able and even adroit debater, he was an admirable leader, but his tactics were rather of
the closet than the field. He was wanting in the personal vigor which, scorning defense, delights
in bold attack upon the central position of the enemy, and carries opposition to the last limit
of parliamentary aggression. With this mildness of character, though recognized as the leader
of his party, he, as a habit, waived his control upon the floor of the House, and, reserving
his interference for occasions when questions of constitutional interpretation arose, left
the general direction of debate to William B. Giles of Virginia, a skillful tactician and a
ready debater, keen, bold, and troubled by no scruples of modesty, respect, or reverence for
friend or foe. Of equal vigor, but of more reserve, was John Nicholas of Virginia--a man of
strong intellect, reliable temper, and with the dignity of the old school. To these were now
added Albert Gallatin and Edward Livingston. Edward Livingston, from New York, was young, and
as yet inexperienced in debate, but of remarkable powers. He was another example of that early
intellectual maturity which was a characteristic of the time.

When Congress met, the all-disturbing question was the foreign policy of the United States.
The influence of the French Revolution upon American politics was great. The Federalists, conservative
in their views, held the new democratic doctrines in abhorrence, and used the terrible excesses
of the French Revolution with telling force against their Republican adversaries. The need
of a strong government was held up as the only alternative to anarchy. In the struggle which
now united Europe against the French republic, the sympathies of the Federalists were with
England. Hence they were accused of a desire to establish a monarchy in the United States,
and were ignominiously called the British party. Shays's Rebellion in Massachusetts and the
Whiskey Insurrection in Pennsylvania gave point to their arguments.

On the other side was the large and powerful party which, throughout the war in the Continental
Congress, under the confederation in the national convention which framed and in the state
conventions which ratified the Constitution, had opposed the tendency to centralization, but
had been defeated by the yearning of the body of the plain people for a government strong enough
at least to secure them peace at home and protection abroad. This natural craving being satisfied,
the old aversion to class distinctions returned. The dread of an aristocracy, which did not
exist even in name, threw many of the supporters of the Constitution into the ranks of its
opponents, who were democrats in name and in fact. The proclamation of the rights of man awoke
this latent sentiment, and aroused an intense sympathy for the people of France. This again
was strengthened by the memory, still warm, of the services of France in the cause of independence.
Lafayette, who represented the true French republican spirit, and held a place in the affections
of the American people second only to that of Washington, was languishing, a prisoner to the
coalition of sovereigns, in an Austrian dungeon.

Jefferson returned from France deeply imbued with the spirit of the French Revolution. His
views were warmly received by his political friends, and the principles of the new school of
politics were rapidly spread by an eager band of acolytes, whose ranks were recruited until
the feeble opposition became a powerful party. Democratic societies, organized on the plan
of the French Jacobin clubs, extended French influence, and no doubt were aided in a practical
way by Genet, whose recent marriage with the daughter of George Clinton, the head of the Republican
party in New York, was an additional link in the bond of alliance.

During the second session of the third Congress Madison had led the opposition in a mild manner;
party lines were not yet strongly defined, and the influence of Washington was paramount. In
the interim between its expiration and the meeting of the fourth Congress in December, the
country was wildly agitated by the Jay treaty. This document not reaching America until after
the adjournment of Congress in March, Washington convened the Senate in extra and secret session
on June 1, and the treaty was ratified by barely two thirds majority. Imprudently withheld
for a time, it was at last made public by Senator Mason of Virginia, one of the ten who voted
against its ratification. It disappointed the people, and was denounced as a weak and ignominious
surrender of American rights. The merchants of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Charleston
protested against it in public meetings. It was burned, and the English flag was trailed in
the dust before the British minister's house at the capital. Jay was hung in effigy, and Hamilton,
who ventured to defend the treaty at a public meeting, was stoned. To add to the popular indignation
that the impressment of American seamen had been ignored in the instrument, came the alarming
news that the British ministry had renewed their order to seize vessels carrying provisions
to France, whither a large part of the American grain crop was destined. On the other hand,
Randolph, the secretary of state, had compromised the dignity of his official position in his
intercourse with Fauchet, the late French ambassador, whose correspondence with his government,
thrown overboard from a French packet, had been fished up by a British man-of-war, and forwarded
to Grenville, by whom it was returned to America. Thus petard answered petard, and the charge
by the Republicans upon the Federalists of taking British gold was returned with interest,
and the accusation of receiving bribe money was brought close home to Randolph, if not proved.

Hard names were not wanting either; Jefferson was ridiculed as a sans-culotte and red-legged
Democrat. Nor was Washington spared. He was charged with an assumption of royal airs, with
political hypocrisy, and even with being a public defaulter; a charge which no one dared to
father, and which was instantly shown to be false and malicious. It was made by Bache in "The
Aurora," a contemptible sheet after the fashion of "L'Ami du Peuple," Marat's Paris organ.

Such was the temper of the people when the House of Representatives met on December 7, 1795.
The speaker, Dayton, was strongly anti-British in feeling. He was a family connection of Burr,
but there is no reason to suppose that he was under the personal influence of that adroit and
unscrupulous partisan. On the 8th President Washington, according to his custom, addressed
both houses of Congress. This day for the first time the gallery was thrown open to the public.
When the reply of the Senate came up for consideration, the purpose of the Republicans was
at once manifest. They would not consent to the approbation it expressed of the conduct of
the administration. They would not admit that the causes of external discord had been extinguished
"on terms consistent with our national honor and safety," or indeed extinguished at all, and
they would not acknowledge that the efforts of the President to establish the peace, freedom,
and prosperity of the country had been "enlightened and firm." Nevertheless the address was
agreed to by a vote of 14 to 8.

In the House a resolution was moved that a respectful address ought to be presented. The opposition
immediately declared itself. Objection was made to an address, and in its stead the appointment
of a committee to wait personally on the President was moved. The covert intent was apparent
through the thin veil of expediency, but the Republicans as a body were unwilling to go this
length in discourtesy, and did not support the motion. Only eighteen members voted for it.
Messrs. Madison, Sedgwick, and Sitgreaves, the committee to report an address, brought in a
draft on the 14th which was ordered to be printed for the use of the members. The next day
the work of dissection was begun by an objection to the words "probably unequaled spectacle
of national happiness" applied to the country, and the words "undiminished confidence" applied
to the President. The words "probably unequaled" were stricken out without decided opposition
by a vote of forty-three to thirty-nine. Opinions were divided on that subject even in the
ranks of the Federalists. The cause of dissatisfaction was the Jay treaty. The address was
recommitted without a division. The next day Madison brought in the address with a modification
of the clause objected to. In its new form the "very great share" of Washington's zealous and
faithful services in securing the national happiness was acknowledged. The address thus amended
was unanimously adopted. In this encounter nothing was gained by the Republicans. The people
would not have endured an open declaration of want of confidence in Washington. But the entering
wedge of the new policy was driven. The treaty was to be assailed. It was, however, the pretext,
not the cause of the struggle, the real object of which was to extend the powers of the House,
and subordinate the executive to its will. Before beginning the main attack the Republicans
developed their general plan in their treatment of secondary issues; of these the principal
was a tightening of the control of the House over the Treasury Department.

In this Mr. Gallatin took the lead. His first measure was the appointment of a standing Committee
of Finance to superintend the general operations of this nature,--an efficient aid to the Treasury
when there is accord between the administration and the House, an annoying censor when the
latter is in opposition. This was the beginning of the Ways and Means Committee, which soon
became and has since continued to be the most important committee of the House. To it were
to be referred all reports from the Treasury Department, all propositions relating to revenue,
and it was to report on the state of the public debt, revenue, and expenditures. The committee
was appointed without opposition. It consisted of fourteen members, William Smith, Sedgwick,
Madison, Baldwin, Gallatin, Bourne, Gilman, Murray, Buck, Gilbert, Isaac Smith, Blount, Patten,
and Hillhouse, and represented the strength of both political parties. To this committee the
estimates of appropriations for the support of the government for the coming year were referred.
The next step was to bring to the knowledge of the House the precise condition of the Treasury.
To this end the secretary was called upon to furnish comparative views of the commerce and
tonnage of the country for every year from the formation of the department in 1789, with tables
of the exports and imports, foreign and domestic, separately stated, and with a division of
the nationality of the carrying vessels. Later, comparative views were demanded of the receipts
and expenditures for each year; the receipts under the heads of Loans, Revenue in its various
forms, and others in their several divisions; the expenditures, also, to be classified under
the heads of Civil List, Foreign Intercourse, Military Establishment, Indian Department, Naval,
etc. Finally a call was made for a statement of the annual appropriations and the applications
of them by the Treasury. The object of Mr. Gallatin was to establish the expenses of the government
in each department of service on a permanent footing for which annual appropriations should
be made, and for any extraordinary expenditure to insist on a special appropriation for the
stated object and none other. By keeping constantly before the House this distinction between
the permanent fund and temporary exigencies, he accustomed it to take a practical business
view of its legislative duties, and the people to understand the principles he endeavored to apply.

In a debate at the beginning of the session, on a bill for establishing trading houses with
the Indians, Mr. Gallatin showed his hand by declaring that he would not consent to appropriate
any part of the war funds for the scheme; nor, in view of the need of additional permanent
funds for the discharge of the public debt, would he vote for the bill at all, unless there
was to be a reduction in the expense of the military establishment; and he would not be diverted
from his purpose although Mr. Madison advocated the bill because of its extremely benevolent
object. The Federal leaders saw clearly to what this doctrine would bring them, and met it
in the beginning. The first struggle occurred when the appropriations for the service of 1796
were brought before the House. Beginning with a discussion upon the salaries of the officers
of the mint, the debate at once passed to the principle of appropriations. The Federalists
insisted that a discussion of the merits of establishments was not in order when the appropriations
were under consideration; that the House ought not, by withholding appropriations, to destroy
establishments formed by the whole legislature, that is, by the Senate and House; that the
House should vote for the appropriations agreeably to the laws already made. This view was
sanctioned by practice. Mr. Gallatin immediately opposed this as an alarming and dangerous
principle. He insisted that there was a certain discretionary power in the House to appropriate
or not to appropriate for any object whatever, whether that object were authorized or not.
It was a power vested in the House for the purpose of checking the other branches of government
whenever necessary. He claimed that this power was shown in the making of yearly instead of
permanent appropriations for the civil list and military establishments, yet when the House
desired to strengthen public credit it had rendered the appropriation for those objects permanent
and not yearly. It was, therefore, "contradictory to suppose that the House was bound to do
a certain act at the same time that they were exercising the discretionary power of voting
upon it." The debate determined nothing, but it is of interest as the first declaration in
Congress of the supremacy of the House of Representatives.

The great debate which, from the principles involved in it as well as the argument and oratory
with which they were discussed, made this session of the House famous, was on the treaty with
Great Britain. This was the first foreign treaty made since the establishment of the Constitution.
The treaty was sent in to the House "for the information of Congress," by the President, on
March 1, with notice of its ratification at London in October. The next day Mr. Edward Livingston
moved that the President be requested to send in a copy of the instructions to the minister
of the United States who negotiated the treaty, together with the correspondence and other
documents. A few days later he amended his resolution by adding an exception of such of said
papers as any existing negotiations rendered improper to disclose. The Senate in its ratification
of the treaty suspended the operation of the clause regulating the trade with the West Indies,
on which Great Britain still imposed the old colonial restriction, and recommended the President
to open negotiations on this subject; and in fact such negotiations were in progress. The discussion
was opened on the Federal side by a request to the gentlemen in favor of the call to give their
reasons. Mr. Gallatin supported the resolution, and expressed surprise at any objection, considering
that the exception of the mover rendered the resolution of itself unexceptionable. The President
had not informed the House of the reasons upon which the treaty was based. If he did not think
proper to give the information sought for, he would say so to them. A question might arise
whether the House should get at those secrets even if the President refused the request, but
that was not the present question. In reply to Mr. Murray, who asserted that the treaty was
the supreme law of the land, and that there was no discretionary power in the House except
on the question of its constitutionality, Mr. Gallatin said that Congress possessed the power
of regulating trade,--perhaps the treaty-making power clashed with that,--and concluded by
observing that the House was the grand inquest of the nation, and that it had the right to
call for papers on which to ground an impeachment. At present he did not contemplate an exercise
of that right. Mr. Madison said it was now to be decided whether the general power of making
treaties supersedes the powers of the House of Representatives, particularly specified in the
Constitution, so as to give to the executive all deliberative will and leave the House only
an executive and ministerial instrumental agency; and he proposed to amend the resolution so
as to read, "except so much of said papers as in his (the President's) judgment it may be inconsistent
with the interest of the United States at this time to disclose." But his motion was defeated
by a vote of 47 nays to 37 yeas.

The discussion being resumed in committee of the whole, the expressions of opinion were free
on both sides, but so moderate that one of the members made comment on the calmness and temper
of the discussion. Nicholas said that, if the treaty were not the law of the land, the President
should be impeached. But the parts of the treaty into which the President had not the right
to enter, he could not make law by proclamation. Swanwick supported the call as one exercised
by the House of Commons. On the Federal side, Harper said that the papers were not necessary,
and, being unnecessary, the demand was an improper and unconstitutional interference with the
executive department. If he thought them necessary, he would change the milk and water style
of the resolutions. In that case the House had a right to them and he had no idea of requesting
as a favor what should be demanded as a right. Gallatin, he said, had declared that it was
a request, but that in case of refusal it might be considered whether demand should not be
made, and he charged that when, at the time the motion was made, the question had been asked,
what use was to be made of the papers, Gallatin did not and could not reply. Mr. Gallatin answered
that whether the House had a discretionary power, or whether it was bound by the instrument,
there was no impropriety in calling for the papers. He hoped to have avoided the constitutional
question in the motion, but as the gentlemen had come forward on that ground, he had no objection
to rest the decision of the constitutional power of Congress on the fate of the present question.
He would therefore state that the House had a right to ask for the papers.

The constitutional question being thus squarely introduced, Mr. Gallatin made an elaborate
speech, which, from its conciseness in statement, strength of argument, and wealth of citations
of authority, was, to say the least, inferior to no other of those drawn out in this memorable
struggle. In its course he compared the opinion of those who had opposed the resolution to
the saying of an English bishop, that the people had nothing to do with the law but to obey
it, and likened their conduct to the servile obedience of a Parliament of Paris under the old
order of things. He concluded with the hope that the dangerous doctrine, that the representatives
of the people have not the right to consult their discretion when about exercising powers delegated
by the Constitution, would receive its death-blow. Griswold replied in what by common consent
was the strongest argument on the Federal side. The call, at first view simple, had, he said,
become a grave matter. The gist of his objection to it was that the people in their Constitution
had made the treaty power paramount to the legislative, and had deposited that power with the
President and Senate.

Mr. Madison once more rose to the constitutional question. He said that, if the passages of
the Constitution be taken literally, they must clash. The word supreme, as applied to treaties,
meant as over the state Constitutions, and not over the Constitution and laws of the United
States. He supported Mr. Gallatin's view of the congressional power as coöperative with the
treaty power. A construction which made the treaty power omnipotent he thought utterly inadmissible
in a constitution marked throughout with limitations and checks.

Mr. Gallatin again claimed the attention of the House, as the original question of a call for
papers had resolved itself into a discussion on the treaty-making power. In the treaty of peace
of 1783 there were three articles which might be supposed to interfere with the legislative
powers of the several States: 1st, that which related to the payment of debts; 2d, the provision
for no future confiscations; 3d, the restitution of estates already confiscated. The first
could not be denied. "Those," he said, "might be branded with the epithet of disorganizers,
who threatened a dissolution of the Union in case the measures they dictated were not obeyed;
and he knew, although he did not ascribe it to any member of the House, that men high in office
and reputation had industriously spread an alarm that the Union would be dissolved if the present
motion was carried." He took the ground that a treaty is not valid, and does not bind the nation
as such, till it has received the sanction of the House of Representatives. Mr. Harper closed
the argument on the Federal side. On March 24 the resolution calling for the papers was carried
by a vote of yeas 62, nays 37, absent 5, the speaker 1 (105). Livingston and Gallatin were
appointed to present the request to the President.

On March 30 the President returned answer to the effect that he considered it a dangerous precedent
to admit this right in the House; that the assent of the House was not necessary to the validity
of a treaty; and he absolutely refused compliance with the request. The letter of instructions
to Jay would bear the closest examination, but the cabinet scorned to take shelter behind it,
and it was on their recommendation that the President's refusal was explicit. This message,
in spite of the opposition of the Federalists, was referred, by a vote of 55 yeas to 37 nays,
to the committee of the whole. This reference involved debate. In his opposition to this motion,
Mr. Harper said that the motives of the friends of the resolution had been avowed by the "gentleman
who led the business, from Pennsylvania;" whereby it appears that Mr. Gallatin led the Republicans
in the first debate. During this his first session he shared this distinction with Mr. Madison.
At the next he became the acknowledged leader of the Republican party.

On April 3 the debate was resumed. This second debate was led by Mr. Madison, who considered
two points: 1st, the application for papers; 2d, the constitutional rights of Congress. His
argument was of course calm and dispassionate after his usual manner. The contest ended on
April 7, with the adoption of two resolutions: 1st, that the power of making treaties is exclusively
with the President and Senate, and the House do not claim an agency in making them, or ratifying
them when made; 2d, that when made a treaty must depend for the execution of its stipulations
on a law or laws to be passed by Congress; and the House have a right to deliberate and determine
the expediency or inexpediency of carrying treaties into effect. These resolutions were carried
by a vote of 63 to 27.

There was now a truce of a few days. In the meanwhile the country was agitated to an extent
which, if words mean anything, really threatened an attempt at dissolution of the Union, if
not civil war itself. The objections on the part of the Republicans were to the treaty as a
whole. Their sympathies were with France in her struggle for liberty and democratic institutions
and against England, and their real and proper ground of antipathy to the instrument lay in
its concession of the right of capture of French property in American vessels, whilst the treaty
with France forbade her to seize British property in American vessels. The objections in detail
had been formulated at the Boston public meeting the year before. The commercial cities were
disturbed by the interference with the carrying trade; the entire coast, by the search of vessels
and the impressment of seamen; the agricultural regions, by the closing of the outlet for their
surplus product; the upland districts, by the stoppage of the export of timber. But the country
was without a navy, was ill prepared for war, and the security of the frontier was involved
in the restoration of the posts still held by the British.

The political situation was uncertain if not absolutely menacing. The threats of disunion were
by no means vague. The Pendleton Society in Virginia had passed secession resolutions, and
a similar disposition appeared in other States. While the treaty was condemned in the United
States, British statesmen were not of one opinion as to the advantages they had gained by Grenville's
diplomacy. Jay's desire, expressed to Randolph, "to manage so that in case of wars our people
should be united and those of England divided," was not wholly disappointed. Supported by this
modified tone of public opinion, the Federalists determined to press the necessary appropriation
bills for carrying the treaties into effect. Besides the Jay treaty there were also before
the House the Wayne treaty with the Indians, the Pinckney treaty with Spain, and the treaty
with Algiers. With these three the House was entirely content, and the country was impatient
for their immediate operation. Wayne's treaty satisfied the inhabitants on the frontier. The
settlers along the Ohio, among whom was Gallatin's constituency, were eager to avail themselves
of the privileges granted by that of Pinckney, which was a triumph of diplomacy; and all America,
while ready to beard the British lion, seems to have been in terror of the Dey of Algiers.
Mr. Sedgwick offered a resolution providing for the execution of the four treaties. Mr. Gallatin
insisted on and received a separate consideration of each. That with Great Britain was reserved
till the rest were disposed of. It was taken up on April 14. Mr. Madison opened the debate.
He objected to the treaty as wanting in real reciprocity; 2d, in insufficiency of its provisions
as to the rights of neutrals; 3d, because of its commercial restrictions. Other Republican
leaders followed, making strong points of the position in which the treaty placed the United
States with regard to France, to whom it was bound by a treaty of commercial alliance, which
was a part of the contract of aid in the Revolutionary War; and also of the possible injustice
which would befall American claimants in the British courts of admiralty.

The Federalists clung to their ground, defended the treaty as the best attainable, and held
up as the alternative a war, for which the refusal of the Republicans to support the military
establishment and build up a navy left the country unprepared. In justice to Jay, his significant
words to Randolph, while doubtful of success in his negotiation, should be remembered: "Let
us hope for the best and prepare for the worst." To the red flag which the Federalists held
up, Mr. Gallatin replied, accepting the consequences of war if it should come, and gave voice
to the extreme dissatisfaction of the Virginia radicals with Jay and the negotiation. He charged
that the cry of war and threats of a dissolution of the government were designed for an impression
on the timidity of the House. He insisted on the important principle that 'free ships make
free goods,' and complained of its abandonment by the negotiators.

In a reply to this attack upon Jay, whose whole life was a refutation of the charge of personal
or moral timidity, Mr. Tracy passed the limits of parliamentary courtesy. "The people," he
said, "where he was most acquainted, whatever might be the character of other parts of the
Union, were not of the stamp to cry hosannah to-day and crucify to-morrow; they will not dance
around a whiskey pole to-day and curse their government, and upon hearing of a military force
sneak into a swamp. No," said he, "my immediate constituents, whom I very well know, understand
their rights and will defend them, and if they find the government will not protect them, they
will attempt at least to protect themselves;" and he concluded, "I cannot be thankful to that
gentleman for coming all the way from Geneva to give Americans a character for pusillanimity."
He held it madness to suppose that if the treaty were defeated war could be avoided. Called
to order, he said that he might have been too personal, and asked pardon of the gentleman and
of the House.

The brilliant crown of the debate was the impassioned speech of Fisher Ames, the impression
of which upon the House and the crowded gallery is one of the traditions of American oratory.
The scene, as it has been handed down to us, resembles, in all save its close, that which Parliament
presented when Chatham made his last and dying appeal. Like the great earl, Ames rose pale
and trembling from illness to address a House angry and divided. Defending himself and the
Federal party against the charge of being in English interest, he said, "Britain has no influence,
and can have none. His closing words again bring Chatham to mind. This appeal, supported by
the petitions and letters which poured in upon the House, left no doubt of the result. An adjournment
was carried, but the speech was decisive. The next day, April 29, it was resolved to be expedient
to make the necessary appropriations to carry the treaty into effect. The vote stood 49 ayes
to 49 nays, and was decided in the affirmative by Muhlenberg, who was in the chair. But the
House would not be satisfied without an expression of condemnation of the instrument. On April
30 it was resolved that in the opinion of the House the treaty was objectionable.

While Mr. Gallatin in this debate rose to the highest rank of statesmanship, he showed an equal
mastery of other important subjects which engaged the attention of the House during the session.
He was earnest for the protection of the frontier, but had no good opinion of the Indians.
"Twelve years had passed," he said, "since the peace of 1783; ever since that time he had lived
on the frontier of Pennsylvania. Not a year of this period had passed, whether at war or peace,
that some murders had not been committed by the Indians, and yet not an act of invasion or
provocation by the inhabitants." In the matter of impressment of American seamen, he urged
the lodging of sufficient power in the executive. Men had been impressed, and he held it to
be the duty of the House to take notice of it by war or negotiation. In the establishment of
land offices for the sale of the western lands he brought to bear upon legislation his practical
experience. He urged that the tracts for sale be divided, and distinctions be made between
large purchasers and actual settlers--proposing that the large tracts be sold at the seat of
government, and the small on the territory itself. He instanced the fact that in 1792 all the
land west of the Ohio was disposed of at 1s. 6d. the acre, and a week afterwards was resold
at $1.50, so that the money which should have gone into the treasury went to the pockets of
speculators. He also suggested that the proceeds of the sales should be a fund to pay the public
debt, and that the public stock should always be received at its value in payment for land;
a plan by which the land would be brought directly to the payment of the debt, as foreigners
would gladly exchange the money obligations of the government for land. On the question of
taxation he declared himself in favor of direct taxes, and held that a tax on houses and lands
could be levied without difficulty. He would satisfy the people that it was to pay off the
public debt, which he held to be a public curse. He supported the excise duty on stills under
regulations which would avoid the watching of persons and houses and inspection by officers,
and proposed that licenses be granted for the time applied for.

The military establishment he opposed in every way, attacked the principle on which it was
based, and fought every appropriation in detail, from the pay of a major-general to the cost
of uniforms for the private soldiers. He was not afraid of the army, he said, but did not think
that it was necessary for the support of the government or dangerous to the liberties of the
people; moreover, it cost six hundred thousand dollars a year, which was a sum of consequence
in the condition of the finances.

The navy found no more favor in his eyes. He denied that fleets were necessary to protect commerce.
He challenged its friends to show, from the history of any nation in Europe as from our own,
that commerce and the navy had gone hand in hand. There was no nation except Great Britain,
he said, whose navy had any connection with commerce. Navies were instruments of power more
calculated to annoy the trade of other nations than to protect that of the nations to which
they belonged. The price England had paid for her navy was a debt of three hundred millions
of pounds sterling. He opposed appropriations even for the three frigates, United States, Constitution,
and Constellation,--the construction of which had been ordered,--the germs of that navy which
was later to set his theory at naught, redeem the honor of the flag, protect our commerce,
and release the country and the civilized world from ignominious tribute to the Mediterranean
pirates, who were propitiated in this very session only at the cost of a million of dollars
to the Treasury of the United States, and by the gift of a frigate.

In the debate over the payment of the sum of five millions, which the United States Bank had
demanded from the government, the greatest part of which had been advanced on account of appropriations,
he lamented the necessity, but urged the liquidation. This was the occasion of another personal
encounter. In reply to a charge of Gallatin that the Federalists were in favor of debt, Sedgwick
alluded to Gallatin's part in the Whiskey Insurrection, and said that none of those gentlemen
whom Gallatin had charged with "an object to perpetuate and increase the public debt" had been
known to have combined "in every measure which might obstruct the operation of law," nor had
declared to the world "that the men who would accept of the offices to perform the necessary
functions of government were lost to every sense of virtue;" "that from them was to be withheld
every comfort of life which depended on those duties which as men and fellow-citizens we owe
to each other. If," he said, "the gentlemen had been guilty of such nefarious practices, there
would have been a sound foundation for the charge brought against them." Gallatin made no reply.
This was the one political sin he had acknowledged. His silence was his expiation.

The Treasury Department and its control, past and present, was the object of his unceasing
criticism. In April, 1796, he said, "The situation of the gentleman at the head of the department
[Wolcott] was doubtless delicate and unpleasant; it was the more so when compared with that
of his predecessor [Hamilton]. Both indeed had the same power to borrow money when necessary;
but that power, which was efficient in the hands of the late secretary and liberally enough
used by him, was become useless at present. He wished the present secretary to be extricated
from his present difficulty. Nothing could be more painful than to be at the head of that department
with an empty treasury, a revenue inadequate to the expenses, and no means to borrow." Nevertheless
he feared that if it were declared that the payment of the debt incurred by themselves were
to be postponed till the present generation were over, it might well be expected that the principle
thus adopted by them would be cherished, that succeeding legislatures and administrations would
follow in their steps, and that they were laying the foundations of that national curse,--a
growing and perpetual debt.

On the last day of the session W. Smith had challenged the correctness of Gallatin's charge
that there had been an increase of the public debt by five millions under the present administration,
and claimed that there were errors in Gallatin's statement of more than four and a half millions.
Gallatin defended his figures. At this day it is impossible to determine the merits of this
dispute.

One incident of this session deserves mention as showing the distaste of Gallatin for anything
like personal compliment, stimulated in this instance, perhaps, by his sense of Washington's
dislike to himself. It had been the habit of the House since the commencement of the government
to adjourn for a time on February 22, Washington's birthday, that members might pay their respects
to the President. When the motion was made that the House adjourn for half an hour, the Republicans
objected, and Gallatin, nothing loath to "bell the cat," moved that the words "half an hour"
be struck out. His amendment was lost without a division. The motion to adjourn was then put
and lost by a vote of 50 nays to 38 ayes. The House waited on the President at the close of
the business of the day. On June 1 closed this long and memorable session, in which the assaults
of the Republicans upon the administration were so persistent and embarrassing as to justify
Wolcott's private note to Hamilton, April 29, 1796, that "unless a radical change of opinion
can be effected in the Southern States, the existing establishments will not last eighteen
months. The influence of Messrs. Gallatin, Madison, and Jefferson must be diminished, or the
public affairs will be brought to a stand." Here is found an early recognition of the political
"triumvirate," and Gallatin is the first named.

Gallatin seems to have had some doubts as to his reëlection to Congress. As he did not reside
in the Washington and Allegheny district, his name was not mentioned as a candidate, and, to
use his own words, he expected to "be gently dropped without the parade of a resignation."
In his distaste at separation from his wife, the desire to abandon public life grew upon him.
But personal abuse of him in the newspapers exasperating his friends, he was taken up again
in October, and he arrived on the scene, he says, too late to prevent it. He had no hope, however,
of success, and was resolved to resign a seat to which he was in every way indifferent. "Ambition,
love of power," he wrote to his wife on October 16, he had never felt, and he added, if vanity
ever made one of the ingredients which impelled him to take an active part in public life,
it had for many years altogether vanished away. He was nevertheless reëlected by the district
he had represented.

        *        *        *        *        *

The second session of the fourth Congress began on December 5, 1796. At the beginning of this
session Mr. Gallatin took the reins of the Republican party, and held them till its close.
The position of the Federalists had been strengthened before the country by the energy of Washington,
who, impatient of the delays which Great Britain opposed to the evacuation of the posts, marched
troops to the frontier and obtained their surrender. Adet, the new French minister, had dashed
the feeling of attachment for France by his impudent notice to the President that the dissatisfaction
of France would last until the executive of the United States should return to sentiments and
measures more conformable to the interests and friendships of the two nations. In September
Washington issued his Farewell Address, in which he gave the famous warning against foreign
complications, which, approved by the country, has since remained its policy; but neither the
prospect of his final withdrawal from the political and official field, nor the advice of Jefferson
to moderate their zeal, availed to calm the bitterness of the ultra Republicans in the House.

The struggle over the answer to the President's message, which Fisher Ames on this occasion
reported, was again renewed. An effort was made to strike out the passages complimentary to
Washington and expressing regret at his approaching retirement. Giles, who made the motion,
went so far as to say that he 'wished him to retire, and that this was the moment for his retirement,
that the government could do very well without him, and that he would enjoy more happiness
in his retirement than he possibly could in his present situation.' For his part he did not
consider Washington's administration either "wise or firm," as the address said. Gallatin made
a distinction between the administration and the legislature, and in lieu of the words, wise,
firm, and patriotic administration, proposed to address the compliment directly to the wisdom,
firmness, and patriotism of Washington. But Ames defended his report, and it was adopted by
a vote of 67 to 12. Gallatin voted with the majority, but Livingston, Giles, and Macon held
out with the small band of disaffected, among whom it is amusing also to find Andrew Jackson,
who took his seat at this Congress to represent Tennessee, which had been admitted as a State
at the last session.[5]

The indebtedness of the States to the general government, in the old balance sheet, on the
payment of which Gallatin insisted, was a subject of difference between the Senate and the
House. Gallatin was appointed chairman of the committee of conference on the part of the House.
The reduction of the military establishment, which he wished to bring down to the footing of
1792, was again insisted upon. Gallatin here ingeniously argued against the necessity for the
number of men proposed, that it was a mere matter of opinion, and if it was a matter of opinion,
it was not strictly necessary, because if necessary it was no longer a matter of opinion. Naval
appropriations were also opposed, on the ground that a navy was prejudicial to commerce. Taxation,
direct and indirect, and compensation to public officers were also subjects of debate at this
session. On the subject of appropriations, general or special, he was uncompromising. He charged
upon the Treasury Department that notwithstanding the distribution of the appropriations they
thought themselves at liberty to take money from an item where there was a surplus and apply
it to another where it was wanted. To check such irregularity, he secured the passage of a
resolution ordering that "the several sums shall be solely applied to the objects for which
they are respectively appropriated," and tacked it to the appropriation bill. The Senate added
an amendment removing the restriction, but Gallatin and Nicholas insisting on its retention,
the House supported them by a vote of 52 to 36, and the Senate receded.

Notwithstanding the apparent enthusiasm of the House in the early part of the session, when
the tricolor of France, a present from the French government to the United States, was sent
by Washington to Congress, to be deposited with the archives of the nation, French influence
was on the wane. The common sense of the country got the better of its passion. In the reaction
the Federalists regained the popular favor for a season.

Whatever latent sympathy the French people may have had for America as the nation which set
the example of resistance to arbitrary rule, the French government certainly was moved by no
enthusiasm for abstract rights. Its only object was to check the power of their ancient enemy,
and deprive it of its empire beyond the seas. Nevertheless, France did contribute materially
to American success. The American government and people acknowledged the value of her assistance,
and, in spite of the prejudices of race, there was a strong bond of sympathy between the two
nations; and when, in her turn, France, in 1789, threw off the feudal yoke, she expected and
she received the sympathy of America. Beyond this the government and the people of the United
States could not and would not go. The position of France in the winter of 1796-97 was peculiar.
She was at war with the two most formidable powers of Europe,--Austria and England, the one
the mistress of Central Europe, the other supreme ruler of the seas. The United States was
the only maritime power which could be opposed to Great Britain. The French government determined
to secure American aid by persuasion, if possible, otherwise by threat. The Directory indiscreetly
appealed from the American government to the American people, forgetting that in representative
governments these are one. Nor was the precedent cited in defense of this unusual proceeding--namely,
the appeal of the American colonists to the people of England, Ireland, and Canada to take
part in the struggle against the British government--pertinent; for that was an appeal to sufferers
under a common yoke.

The enthusiasm awakened in France by the dramatic reception of the American flag, presented
by Monroe to the French Convention, was somewhat dampened by the cooler manner with which Congress
received the tricolor, and was entirely dashed by the moderation of the reply of the House
to Washington's message. The consent of the House to the appropriations to carry out the Jay
Treaty decided the French Directory to suspend diplomatic relations with the United States.
The marvelous successes of Bonaparte in Italy over the Austrian army encouraged Barras to bolder
measures. The Directory not only refused to receive Charles C. Pinckney, the new American minister,
but gave him formal notice to retire from French territory, and even threatened him with subjection
to police jurisdiction. In view of this alarming situation, President Adams convened Congress.

The first session of the fifth Congress began at Philadelphia on Monday, May 15, 1797. Jonathan
Dayton was reëlected speaker of the House. Some new men now appeared on the field of national
debate: Samuel Sewall and Harrison Gray Otis from Massachusetts, James A. Bayard from Delaware,
and John Rutledge, Jr., from South Carolina. Madison and Fisher Ames did not return, and their
loss was serious to their respective parties. Madison was incontestably the finest reasoning
power, and Ames, as an orator, had no equal in our history until Webster appeared to dwarf
all other fame beside his matchless eloquence. Parties were nicely balanced, the nominal majority
being on the Federal side. Harper and Griswold retained the lead of the administration party.
Giles still led the Republican opposition, but Gallatin was its main stay, always ready, always
informed, and already known to be in the confidence of Jefferson, its moving spirit. The President's
message was, as usual, the touchstone of party. The debate upon it unmasked opinions. It was
to all intents a war message, since it asked provision for war. The action of France left no
alternative. The Republicans recognized this as well as the Federalists. They must either respond
heartily to the appeal of the executive to maintain the national honor, or come under the charge
they had brought against the Federalists of sympathy with an enemy. At first they sought a
middle ground. Admitting that the rejection of our minister and the manner of it, if followed
by a refusal of all negotiation on the subject of mutual complaints, would put an end to every
friendly relation between the two countries, they still hoped that it was only a suspension
of diplomatic intercourse. Hence, in response to the assurance in the message that an attempt
at negotiation would first be made, Nicholas moved an amendment in this vein. The Federalists
opposed all interference with the executive, but the Republicans took advantage of the debate
to clear themselves of any taint of unpatriotic motives in their semi-opposition. The Federalists,
repudiating the charge of British influence, held up Genet to condemnation, as making an appeal
to the people, Fauchet as fomenting an insurrection, and Adet as insulting the government.
The Republicans retorted upon them Grenville's proposition to Mr. Pinckney, to support the
American government against the dangerous Jacobin factions which sought to overturn it. Gallatin
deprecated bringing the conduct of foreign relations into debate, and hoped that the majority
would resist the rashness which would drive the country into war; he claimed that a disposition
should be shown to put France on an equal footing with other nations. He would offer an ultimatum
to France. Harper closed the debate in a powerful and brilliant speech, opposing the amendment
because he was for peace, and because peace could only be maintained by showing France that
we were preparing for war. So the rival leaders based their opposite action on a common ground.
Dayton, the speaker, now embodied Gallatin's idea in another form, and introduced a paragraph
to the effect that "the House receive with the utmost satisfaction the information of the President
that a fresh attempt at negotiation will be instituted, and cherish the hope that a mutual
spirit of conciliation and a disposition on the part of the United States to place France on
grounds as favorable as other countries will produce an accommodation compatible with the engagements,
rights, and honor of our nation."

Kittera, who was one of the committee on the address, then moved to add after "mutual spirit
of conciliation" the clause, "to compensate for any injury done to our neutral rights," etc.
This both Harper and Gallatin opposed. Gallatin objected to being forced to this choice. To
vote in its favor was a threat, if compensation were refused; to vote against it was an abandonment
of the claim. But he should oppose it, if forced to a choice. The Federal leaders insisted;
the previous question was ordered, 51 to 48. Here Mr. Gallatin showed himself the leader of
his party. He stated that, the majority having determined the question, it was now a choice
of evils, and he should vote for the amendment, and it was adopted, 78 ayes to 21 nays. Among
the nays were Harper, the Federalist leader, Giles, the nominal chief of the Republicans, and
Nicholas, high in rank in that party. But the last word was not yet said. Edward Livingston,
who day by day asserted himself more positively, denied that the conduct of the executive had
been "just and impartial to foreign nations," and moved to strike out the statement; Gallatin
was more moderate. Though he did not believe that in every instance the government had been
just and impartial, yet, generally speaking, it had been so. He did not approve the British
treaty, though he attributed no bad motives to its makers; but he did not think that the laws
respecting the subordinate departments of the executive and judiciary had been fairly executed.
He therefore would not consent to the sentence in the answer to the address, that the House
did not hesitate to declare that "they would give their most cordial support to principles
so deliberately and uprightly established."

What, he asked, were these principles? Otis denounced this as an artful attempt to cast a censure,
not only on the executive, but on all the departments of government, and Allen of Connecticut
declared "that there was American blood enough in the House to approve this clause and American
accent enough to pronounce it." The rough prejudice of the Saxon against the Latin race showed
itself in this language, and expressed the antagonism which Mr. Gallatin found to increase
with his political progress. Both the resolution and the amendment were defeated, 53 nays to
45 yeas. But when the final vote came upon the address, Mr. Gallatin, with that practical sense
which made him the sheet anchor of his party in boisterous weather, voted with the Federalists
and carried the moderate Republicans with him. The vote was 62 to 36. Among the irreconcilables
the name of Edward Livingston is recorded.

The answer of the President was a model of good sense. "No event can afford me so much cordial
satisfaction as to conduct a negotiation with the French Republic to a removal of prejudices,
a correction of errors, a dissipation of umbrages, an accommodation of all differences, and
a restoration of harmony and affection to the mutual satisfaction of both nations."

This was the leading debate of the session. The situation was too grave for trifling. On June
5, two days after the President's reply, resolutions were introduced to put the country in
a state of defense. Gallatin struggled hard to keep down the appropriations, and opposed the
employment of the three frigates, which as yet had not been equipped or manned. If they got
to sea, the President would have no option except to enforce the disputed articles of the French
treaty. Gallatin laid down also the law of search in accordance with the law of nations, and
pointed out that resistance to search or capture by merchantmen would not only lead to war,
but was war. In the remaining acts of the session he was in favor of the defense of ports and
harbors, with no preference as to fortification on government territory; in favor of a prohibition
of the export of arms; against raising an additional corps of artillery; against expatriation
of persons who took service under foreign governments. He opposed the duty on salt as unequal
and unnecessary, and sought to have the loan, which became necessary, cut down to the exact
sum of the deficiency in the appropriations; and finally, on the impeachment of William Blount,
Senator of the United States, charged with having conspired with the British government to
attack the Spaniards of St. Augustine, he pointed out the true method of procedure in the preparation
of the bill of impeachment and the arraignment of the offender.

The House adjourned on July 10. Jefferson complained of the weakness and wavering of this Congress,
the majority of which shifted with the breeze of "panic or prowess." This was, however, a very
narrow view; for at this session the House fairly represented the prevailing sentiment of the
country, which was friendly to France as a nation, but indignant with the insolence of her
rulers. Gallatin, in the middle of the session, wrote to his wife that the Republicans "were
beating and beaten by turns." He supposed that her father, Commodore Nicholson, 'thought him
too moderate and about to trim,' and then declared, 'Moderation and firmness hath ever been,
and ever will be, my motto.' Gallatin tells a story of his colleague from Pennsylvania, the
old Anti-Federalist, Blair McClanachan, which shows the warmth of party feeling. They were
both dining with President Adams, who entertained the members of Congress in turn. "McClanachan
told the President that, by God, he would rather see the world annihilated than this country
united with Great Britain; that there would not remain a single king in Europe within six months,
etc., all in the loudest and most decisive tone."

Jefferson, who, as vice-president, presided over the debates in the Senate, had no cause to
complain of any hesitation in that body, in which the Federalists had regained a clear working
majority, giving him no chance of a deciding vote.

        *        *        *        *        *

The second session of the fifth Congress began on November 13, 1797. The words of the President's
address, "We are met together at a most interesting period, the situation of the powers of
Europe is singular and portentous," was not an idle phrase. The star of Bonaparte already dominated
the political firmament. Europe lay prostrate at the feet of the armies of the Directory. England,
who was supposed to be the next object of attack, was staggering under the load of debt; and
the sailors of her channel fleet had risen in mutiny. Even the Federalists, the aristocrats
as Mr. Gallatin delighted to call them, believed that she was gone beyond recovery. But the
admirers of France were no better satisfied with the threatening attitude of the Directory
towards America, and eagerly waited news of the reception given to the envoys extraordinary,
Gerry, Pinckney, and Marshall, whom Adams with the consent of the Senate dispatched to Paris
in the summer. Even Jefferson lost his taste for a French alliance, and almost wished there
were "an ocean of fire between the new and the old world."

The tone of the President's address was considered wise on all sides, and it was agreed that
the answer should be general and not a subject of contention. One of the members asked to be
excused from going with the House to the President, but Gallatin showed that, as there was
no power to compel attendance, no formal excuse was necessary. When the motion was put as to
whether they should go in a body as usual to present their answer, Mr. Gallatin voted in the
negative. He nevertheless accompanied the members, who were received pleasantly by President
Adams and "treated to cake and wine."

Harper was made the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Though of high talents and a
fine speaker, Gallatin found him a "great bungler" in the business of the House, a large share
of which fell upon his own shoulders as well as the direction of the Republicans, of whom,
notwithstanding the jealousy of Giles, he now was the acknowledged leader. As a member for
Pennsylvania, Mr. Gallatin presented a memorial from the Quakers with regard to the arrest
of fugitive slaves on her soil; the law of Pennsylvania declaring all men to be free who set
foot in that State except only servants of members of Congress. There was already an opposition
to hearing any petition with regard to slaves, but Gallatin insisted on the memorial taking
the usual course of reference to a committee. He directed the House also in the correct path
in its legislation as to foreign coins. It was proposed to take from them the quality of legal
tender; but he showed that it was policy not to discriminate against such coins until the mint
could supply a sufficiency for the use of the country. In this argument he estimated the entire
amount of specie in the United States at eight millions of dollars. At this early period in
his political career he was acquiring that precise knowledge of the facts of American finance
which later served to establish the principles upon which it is based.

This session was noteworthy by reason of the first personal encounter on the floor of the House.
It was between two Northern members, Lyon of Vermont and Griswold of Connecticut. Gallatin
stood by Lyon, who was of his party, and showed that the House could not expel him, since it
was not at the time in organized session. As the Federalists would not consent to censure Griswold,
both offenders escaped even a formal reproof. The general bitterness of feeling which marked
the summer session was greatly modified in the expectant state of foreign politics; but the
occasion for display of political divergence was not long delayed.

On January 18, 1798, Mr. Harper, who led the business of the House, moved the appropriation
for foreign intercourse. This was seized upon by the opposition to advance still further their
line of attack by a limitation of the constitutional prerogative of the President. In addition
to the usual salaries of the envoys to Great Britain and France, appropriations were asked
for the posts at Madrid, Lisbon, and Berlin, which last Mr. Adams had designated as a first-class
mission. The discussion on the powers of the President, and the extent to which they might
be controlled by paring down the appropriations, lifted the debate from the narrow ground of
economy in administration to the higher plane of constitutional powers. Nicholas opened on
the Republican side by announcing that it was seasonable to bring back the establishment of
the diplomatic corps to the footing it had been on until the year 1796. In all governments
like our own he declared that there was a tendency to a union and consolidation of all its
parts into the executive, and the limitation and annexion of the parts with each other as settled
by the Constitution would be destroyed by this influence unless there were a constant attention
on the part of the legislature to resist it. The appointment of a minister plenipotentiary
to Prussia, with which we had little or no commercial intercourse, offered an opportunity to
determine this limitation. Harper said that this was a renewal of the old charge that foreign
intercourse was unnecessary, and the old suggestion that our commerce ought to be given up
or left to shift for itself. Mr. Gallatin laid down extreme theories which have never yet found
practical application. He took the question at once from party or personal ground by admitting
that the government was essentially pure, its patronage not extensive, or its effect upon the
legislative or any other branch of the government as yet material. The Constitution had placed
the patronage in the executive. There he thought it was wisely placed. The legislature would
be more corrupt than the executive were it placed with them. While not willing at once to give
up political foreign intercourse, he thought that it should by degrees be altogether declined.
To it he ascribed the critical situation of the country. Commercial intercourse could be protected
by the consular system. He then argued that the power to provide for expenses was the check
intended by the Constitution. To this Griswold answered that this doctrine of checks contained
more mischief than Pandora's box; Bayard, that the checks were all directed to the executive,
and that they would check and counter-check until they stopped the wheels of government.[6]
When the President was manacled and at the mercy of the House they would be satisfied. He held
the executive to be the weakest branch of the government, because its powers are defined; but
the limits of the House are undefined.

As the debate advanced, Nicholas declared that the purpose of the Republicans was to define
the executive power and to put an end to its extension through their power over appropriations.
Later he would bring in a motion to do away with all foreign intercourse. Goodrich answered
that the office of foreign minister was created by the Constitution itself, and the power of
appointment was placed in the President. The House might speculate upon the propriety of doing
away with all intercourse with foreign powers, but could not decide on it, for political intercourse
did not depend on the sending of ministers abroad. Foreign ministers would come here and the
Constitution required their reception. The idea that we should have no foreign intercourse
was taken from Washington's Farewell Address, but his words applied only to alliances offensive
and defensive. If ministers were abandoned, envoys extraordinary must be sent, a much more
dangerous practice; the only choice was between ministers and spies. In conclusion he accused
the Republicans of making one continuous attack upon the administration, and charged that the
opposition to the appropriation bill was not a single measure, but connected with others, and
intended to clog the wheels of government.

The purpose of the Republicans being thus declared by Nicholas and squarely met by the friends
of the administration, Mr. Gallatin, March 1, 1798, summed up the opposition arguments in an
elaborate speech three hours and a quarter in length. He denied the novel doctrine that each
department had checks within itself, but none upon others; he claimed that the principle of
checks is admitted in all mixed governments. Commercial intercourse, he said, is regulated
by the law of nations, by the municipal law of respective countries and by treaties of commerce,
the application of which is the province of consuls. What advantages, he asked, had our commercial
treaties given us, either that with France or that with England? He excepted that part of the
treaty with Great Britain which arranged our difference with that power, as foreign to the
discussion. He claimed that the restriction which we had laid upon ourselves by our commercial
treaties had been attended with political consequences fatal to our tranquillity. Washington
had advised a separation of our political from our commercial relations. The message of President
Adams intimated a different policy and alluded to the balance of power in Europe as not to
be forgotten or neglected. Interesting as that balance may be to Europe, how does it concern
us? We shall never throw our weight into the scale. Passing from this to the danger of the
absorption of powers by the executive, he cited the examples of the Córtes of Spain, the États
Généraux of France, the Diets of Denmark. In all these countries the executive is in possession
of legislative, of absolute powers. The fate of the European republics was similar. Venice,
Switzerland, and Holland had shown the legislative powers merging into the executive. The object
of the Constitution of the United States is to divide and distribute the powers of government.
With uncontrolled command over the purse of the people the executive tends to prodigality,
to taxes, and to wars. He closed with a hope that a fixed determination to prevent the increase
of the national expenditure, and to detach the country from any connection with European politics,
would tend to reconcile parties, promote the happiness of America, and conciliate the affection
of every part of the Union. No such admirable exposition of the true American doctrine of non-interference
with European politics had at that time been heard in Congress.

In reply, Harper insisted on the admission that the purpose of the amendment of Nicholas was
to restrain the President; that it was a question of power, not of money. Mr. Gallatin admitted
the right of appointment, but denied that the House was bound to appropriate. Harper rejoined
that the offices did not originate with the President but with the Constitution, and that they
could not be destroyed by the action of the House, and, leaving the general ground of debate,
made a brilliant attack upon the Republicans as revolutionists, whom he divided into three
classes: the philosophers, the Jacobins, and the sans-culottes. The philosophers are most to
be dreaded. "They declaim with warmth on the miseries of mankind, the abuses of government,
and the vices of rulers; all which they engage to remove, providing their theories should once
be adopted. They talk of the perfectibility of man and of the dignity of his nature; and, entirely
forgetting what he is, declaim perpetually about what he should be." Of Jacobins there are
plenty. They profit by the labors of others; tyrants in power, demagogues when not. Fortunately
for America there are few or no sans-culottes among her inhabitants. Jefferson, he said, returned
from France a missionary to convert Americans to the new faith, and he charged that the system
of French alliance and war with Great Britain by the United States was a part of the scheme
of the French revolutionists, and was imported into this country. Gallatin and his friends
he regarded in the light of an enemy who has commenced a siege against the fortress of the
Constitution.

The restricting amendment was lost, and the bill passed by a vote of 52 yeas to 43 nays. Nor
is it easy to see how the theory of Mr. Gallatin with regard to diplomatic relations could
have been applied successfully with the existing channels of intercourse. Now that the ocean
cable brings governments into direct relation with each other, there is a tendency to restrict
the authority of ambassadors, for whom there is no longer need, and the entire system will
no doubt soon disappear. Mr. Gallatin's speech was the delight of his party and his friends.
He was called upon to write it out, and two thousand copies of it were circulated as the best
exposition of Republican doctrine.

Early in February the President informed Congress of certain captures and outrages committed
by a French privateer within the limits of the United States, including the burning of an English
merchantman in the harbor of Charleston. On March 19, in a further special message, he communicated
dispatches from the American envoys in France, and also informed Congress that he should withdraw
his order forbidding merchant vessels to sail in an armed condition. A collision might, therefore,
occur at any moment.

On March 27, 1798, a resolution was introduced that it is not now expedient for the United
States to resort to war against the French Republic; a second, to restrict the arming of merchant
vessels; and a third, to provide for the protection of the seacoast and the internal defense
of the country. Speaking to the first resolution, Mr. Gallatin said that the United States
had arrived at a crisis at which a stand must be made, when the House must say whether it will
resort to war or preserve peace. If to war, the expense and its evils must be met; if peace
continue, then the country must submit: in either case American vessels would be taken. It
was a mere matter of calculation which course would best serve the interest and happiness of
the country. If he could separate defensive from offensive war, he should be in favor of it;
but he could not make the distinction, and therefore he should be in favor of measures of peace.
The act of the President was a war measure. Members of the House so designated it in letters
to their constituents.

On April 2 the President was requested to communicate the instructions and dispatches from
the envoys extraordinary, mention of which he had made in his message of March 19. Gallatin
supported the call. He said that the President was not afraid of communicating information,
as he had shown in the preceding session, and that to withhold it would endanger the safety
of our commerce, or prevent the happy issue of negotiation. On April 3 Mr. Gallatin presented
a petition against hazarding the neutrality and peace of the nation by authorizing private
citizens to arm and equip vessels. This was signed by forty members of the Pennsylvania legislature.
Protests of a similar character were presented from other parts of the country. On the same
day the President sent in the famous X Y Z dispatches, in confidence. These letters represented
the names of Hottinguer, Bellamy, and Hauteval, the agents of Talleyrand, the foreign minister
of the First Consul, which were withheld by the President. The mysterious negotiations contained
a distinct demand by Talleyrand of a douceur of 1,200,000 livres to the French officials as
a condition of peace. The effect was immediately to strengthen the administration, Dayton,
the speaker, passing to the ranks of the Federalists.

On the 18th the Senate sent down a bill authorizing the President to procure sixteen armed
vessels to act as convoys. Gallatin still held firm. He admitted that from the beginning of
the European contest the belligerent powers had disregarded the law of nations and the stipulations
of treaties, but he still opposed the granting of armed convoys, which would lead to a collision.
Let us not, he said, act on speculative grounds; if our present situation is better than war,
let us keep it. Better even, he said, suffer the French to go on with their depredations than
to take any step which may lead to war.

Allen of Connecticut read a passage from the dispatches which envenomed the debate. By it one
of the French agents appears to have warned the American envoys that they were mistaken in
supposing that an exposition of the unreasonable demands of France would unite the people of
the United States. Allen then charged upon Gallatin that his language was that of a foreign
agent. Gallatin replied that the representatives of the French Republic in this country had
shown themselves to be the worst diplomatists that had ever been sent to it, and he asked why
the gentlemen who did not come forward with a declaration of war (though they were willing
to go to war without the declaration) charge their adversaries with meaning to submit to France.
France might declare war or give an order to seize American vessels, but as long as she did
not, some hope remained that the state of peace might not be broken; and he said in conclusion
"that, notwithstanding all the violent charges and personal abuse which had been made against
him, it would produce no difference in his manner of acting, neither prevent him from speaking
against every measure which he thought injurious to the public interest, nor, on the other
hand, inflame his mind so as to induce him to oppose measures which he might heretofore have
thought proper."

The war feeling ran high in the country; "Millions for defense, but not one cent for tribute,"[7]
was the popular cry. On May 28 Mr. Harper introduced a bill to suspend commercial intercourse
with France. Gallatin thought this a doubtful measure. Its avowed purpose was to distress France
in the West Indies, but he said that in six months that entire trade would be by neutral vessels.
In the discussion on the bill to regulate the arming of merchant vessels, he showed that it
was the practice of neutral European nations to allow such vessels to arm, but not to regulate
their conduct. Bonds are required in cases of letter of marque, and the merchant who arms is
bound not to break the laws of nations or the agreements of treaties. Restriction was therefore
unnecessary. Government should not interfere. Commercial intercourse with France was suspended
June 13.

In the pride of their new triumph and the intensity of their personal feeling the Federalists
overleaped their mark, and began a series of measures which ultimately cost them the possession
of the government and their political existence. The first of these was the Sedition Bill,
which Jefferson believed to be aimed at Gallatin in person. Mr. Gallatin met it at its inception
with a statement of the constitutional objections, viz., 1st, that there was no power to make
such a law, and 2d, the special provision in the Constitution that the writ of habeas corpus
shall not be suspended except in cases of rebellion and invasion. There was neither. The second,
the Alien Bill, gave the President power to expel from the country all aliens. Over this measure
Gallatin and Harper had hot words. Gallatin charged upon Harper not only a misrepresentation
of the arguments of his opponents, but an arraignment of the motives of others, while claiming
all purity for his own. Harper answered in words which show that Gallatin, for once, had met
warmth with warmth, and anger with anger. When, Harper said, a gentleman, who is usually so
cool, all at once assumes such a tone of passion as to forget all decorum of language, it would
seem as if the observation had been properly applied. On the vote to strike out the obnoxious
sections, the Federalists defeated their antagonists, and on June 21 the bill itself was passed
with all its odious features by 46 to 40.

On June 21 President Adams sent in a message with letters from Gerry, who had remained at Paris
after the return of Marshall and Pinckney, on the subject of a loan. They contained an intimation
from Talleyrand that he was ready to resume negotiations. On the 25th an act was passed authorizing
the commanders of merchant vessels to defend themselves against search and seizure under regulations
by the President. On June 30 a further act authorized the purchase and equipment of twelve
vessels as an addition to the naval armament. To all intents and purposes a state of war between
the two countries already existed.

The 4th of July (1798) was celebrated with unusual enthusiasm all over the United States, and
the black cockade was generally worn. This was the distinctive badge of the Federalists, and
a response to the tricolor which Adet had recommended all French citizens to wear in 1794.

On July 5 a resolution was moved to appoint a committee to consider the expediency of declaring,
by legislative act, the state of relations between the United States and the French Republic.
Mr. Gallatin asked if a declaration of war could not be moved as an amendment, but the speaker,
Mr. Dayton, made no reply. Mr. Gallatin objected that Congress could not declare a state of
facts by a legislative act. But this view, if tenable then, has long since been abandoned.
In witness of which it is only necessary to name the celebrated resolution of the Congress
of 1865 with regard to the recognition of a monarchy in Mexico. July 6 the House went into
committee of the whole on the state of the Union to consider a bill sent down by the Senate
abrogating the treaty with France. The bill was passed on the 16th by a vote of 47 ayes to
37 nays, Gallatin voting in the negative. The House adjourned the same day.

While thus engaged in debates which called into exercise his varied information and displayed
not only the extent of his learning but his remarkable powers of reasoning and statement, Mr.
Gallatin never lost sight of reform in the administration of the finances of the government.
To the success of his efforts to hold the Treasury Department to a strict conformity with his
theory of administration, Mr. Wolcott, the secretary, gave ample if unwilling testimony. To
Hamilton he wrote on April 5, 1798, "The management of the Treasury becomes more and more difficult.
The legislature will not pass laws in gross; their appropriations are minute. Gallatin, to
whom they yield, is evidently intending to break down this department by charging it with an
impracticable detail."

During these warm discussions Gallatin rarely lost his self-control. Writing to his old friend
Lesdernier at this period, he said, "You may remember I am blessed with a very even temper;
it has not been altered by time or politics."

       *       *       *       *       *

The third session of the fifth Congress opened on December 3, 1798. On the 8th, when the President
was expected, Lieutenant-General Washington and Generals Pinckney and Hamilton entered the
hall and took their places on the right of the speaker's chair. They had been recently appointed
to command the army of defense.

The President's speech announced no change in the situation. An efficient preparation for war
can alone insure peace. The reply to this patriotic sentiment was unanimously agreed to, and
was most grateful to Adams, who thanked the House for it as "consonant to the characters of
representatives of a great and free people."

On December 27 a peculiar resolution was introduced to punish the usurpation of the executive
authority of the government of the United States in carrying on correspondence with the government
of any foreign prince or state. Gallatin thought this resolution covered too much ground. The
criminality of such acts did not lie in their being usurpations, but in the nature of the crime
committed. There was no authority in the Constitution for a grant of such a power to the President.
To afford aid and comfort to the enemy was treason, but there was no war, and therefore no
enemy. He claimed the right to himself and others to do all in his power to secure a peace,
even by correspondence abroad, and he would not admit that the ground taken by the friends
of the measure was a proper foundation for a general law. A committee was, however, appointed,
in spite of this remonstrance, to consider the propriety of including in the general act all
persons who should commence or carry on a correspondence, by a vote of 65 to 23. A bill was
reported on January 9, when Gallatin endeavored to attach a proviso that the law should not
operate upon persons seeking justice or redress from foreign governments; but his motion was
defeated by a vote of 48 to 37. Later, however, a resolution of Mr. Parker, that nothing in
the act should be construed to abridge the rights of any citizen to apply for such redress,
was adopted by a vote of 69 yeas to 27 nays. On this vote Harper voted yea. Griswold, Otis,
Bayard, and Goodrich were found among the nays. Gallatin succeeded in carrying an amendment
defining the bill, after which it was passed by a vote of 58 to 36.

Towards the close of January, 1799, a bill was brought in authorizing the President to discontinue
the restraints of the act suspending intercourse with the French West India Islands, whenever
any persons in authority or command should so request. This was to invite a secession of the
French colonies from the mother country. Gallatin deprecated any action which might induce
rebellion against authority, or lead to self-government among the people of the islands who
were unfit for it. Moreover, such action would remove still further every expectation of an
accommodation with France. The bill was passed by a vote of 55 to 37. He objected to the bill
to authorize the President to suspend intercourse with Spanish and Dutch ports which should
harbor French privateers, as placing an unlimited power to interdict commerce in the hands
of the executive. The bill was carried by 55 to 37. On the question of the augmentation of
the navy he opposed the building of the seventy-fours.

In February Edward Livingston presented a petition from aliens, natives of Ireland, against
the Alien and Sedition laws. Numerous similar petitions followed; one was signed by 18,000
persons in Pennsylvania alone. To postpone consideration of the subject, the Federalists sent
these papers to a select committee, against the protests of Livingston and Gallatin. This course
was the more peculiar because of the reference of petitions of a similar character in the month
previous to the committee of the whole. The Federalists were abusing their majority, and precipitating
their unexpected but certain ruin. One more effort was made to repeal the offensive penal act;
the constitutional objection was again pleaded, but the repeal was defeated by a vote of 52
in the affirmative. Mr. Gallatin opposed these laws in all their stages, but, failing in this,
persistently endeavored to make them as good as possible before they passed. Jefferson later
said that nothing could obliterate from the recollection of those who were witnesses of it
the courage of Gallatin in the "Days of Terror."[8] The vote of thanks to Mr. Dayton, the speaker,
was carried by a vote of 40 to 22. On March 3, 1800, this Congress adjourned.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sixth Congress met at Philadelphia on December 2, 1799. The Federalists were returned in
full majority. Among the new members of the House, John Marshall and John Randolph appeared
for Virginia. Theodore Sedgwick was chosen speaker. President Adams came down to the House
on the 3d and made the usual speech. The address in reply, reported by a committee of which
Marshall was chairman, was agreed to without amendment. Adams was again delighted with the
very respectful terms adopted at the "first assembly after a fresh election, under the strong
impression of the public opinion and national sense at this interesting and singular crisis."
At this session it was the sad privilege of Marshall to announce the death of Washington, "the
Hero, the Sage, and the Patriot of America." In the shadow of this great grief, party passion
was hushed for a while.

Gallatin again led the Republican opposition; Nicholas and Macon were his able lieutenants.
The line of attack of the Republicans was clear. If war could be avoided, the growing unpopularity
of the Alien and Sedition laws would surely bring them to power. The foreign-born voter was
already a factor in American politics. In January the law providing for an addition to the
army was suspended. Macon then moved the repeal of the Sedition Law. He took the ground that
it was a measure of defense. Bayard adroitly proposed as an amendment that "the offenses therein
specified shall remain punishable as at common law, provided that upon any prosecution it shall
be lawful for the defendant to give as his defense the truth of the matter charged as a libel."
Gallatin called upon the chair to declare the amendment out of order, as intended to destroy
the resolution, but the speaker declined, and the amendment was carried by a vote of 51 to
47. The resolution thus amended was then defeated by a vote of 87 to 1. The Republicans preferred
the odious act in its original form rather than accept the Federal interpretation of it.

On February 11, 1800, a bill was introduced into Congress further to suspend commercial intercourse
with France. It passed the House after a short debate by a vote of 68 yeas to 28 nays. On this
bill the Republican leaders were divided. Nicholas, Macon, and Randolph opposed it; but Gallatin,
separating from his friends, carried enough of his party with him to secure its passage. Returned
by the Senate with amendments, it was again objected to by Macon as fatal to the interests
of the Southern States, but the House resolved to concur by a vote of 50 to 36.

In March the country was greatly excited by the news of an engagement on the 1st of February,
off Guadaloupe, between the United States frigate Constellation, thirty-eight guns, and a French
national frigate, La Vengeance, fifty-four guns. The House of Representatives called on the
secretary of the navy for information, and, by 84 yeas to 4 nays, voted a gold medal to Captain
Truxton, who commanded the American ship. John Randolph's name is recorded in the negative.

Notwithstanding this collision, the relations of the United States and France were gradually
assuming a kindlier phase. The Directory had sought to drive the American government into active
measures against England. Bonaparte, chosen First Consul, at once adopted a conciliatory tone.
Preparing for a great continental struggle, he was concentrating the energies and the powers
of France. In May Mr. Parker called the attention of the House to this change of conduct in
the French government and offered a resolution instructing the Committee on Commerce to inquire
if any amendments to the Foreign Intercourse Act were necessary. Macon moved to amend so that
the inquiry should be whether it were not expedient to repeal the act. Gallatin opposed the
resolution on the ground that it was highly improper to take any measures at the present time
which would change the defensive system of the country. The resolution was negatived,--43 nays
to 40 yeas.

One singular opposition of Gallatin is recorded towards the close of the session; the Committee
on the Treasury Department reported an amendment to the act of establishment, providing that
the secretary of the treasury shall lay before Congress, at the commencement of every session,
a report on finance with plans for the support of credit, etc. Gallatin and Nicholas opposed
this bill, because it came down from the Senate, which had no constitutional right to originate
a money bill; but Griswold and Harper at once took the correct ground that it was not a bill,
but a report on the state of the finances, in which the Senate had an equal share with the
House. The bill was passed by a vote of 43 to 39. It is worthy of note that the first report
on the state of the finances communicated under this act was by Mr. Gallatin himself the next
year, and that it was sent in to the Senate. The House adjourned on May 14, 1800.

       *       *       *       *       *

The second session of the sixth Congress was held at the city of Washington, to which the seat
of government had been removed in the summer interval. After two southerly migrations they
were now definitively established at a national capital. The session opened on November 17,
1800. On the 22d President Adams congratulated Congress on "the prospect of a residence not
to be changed." The address of the House in reply was adopted by a close vote.

The situation of foreign relations was changed. The First Consul received the American envoys
cordially, and a commercial convention was made but secured ratification by the Senate only
after the elimination of an article and a limitation of its duration to eight years. While
the bill was pending in the Senate, Mr. Samuel Smith moved to continue the act to suspend commercial
intercourse with France. Mr. Gallatin opposed this motion; at the last session he had voted
for this bill because there was only the appearance of a treaty. Now that the precise state
of negotiation was known, why should the House longer leave this matter to the discretion of
the President? The House decided to reject the indiscreet bill by a vote of 59 to 37. An effort
was also made to repeal a part of the Sedition Law, and continue the rest in force, but the
House refused to order the engrossing of the bill, taking wise counsel of Dawson, who said
that, supported by the justice and policy of their measures, the approaching administration
would not need the aid of either the alien, sedition, or common law. The opponents of the bill
would not consent to any modification. The last scenes of the session were of exciting interest.

Freed from the menace of immediate war, the people of plain common sense recognized that the
friendship of Great Britain was more dangerous than the enmity of France. They dreaded the
fixed power of an organized aristocracy far more than the ephemeral anarchy of an ill-ordered
democracy; they were more averse to class distinctions protected by law than even to military
despotism which destroyed all distinctions, and they preferred, as man always has preferred
and always will prefer, personal to political equality. The Alien and Sedition laws had borne
their legitimate fruit. The foreign-born population held the balance of power; a general vote
would have shown a large Republican or, it is more correct to say, anti-Federalist majority.
But the popular will could not be thus expressed. Under the old system each elector in the
electoral college cast his ballot for president and vice-president without designation of his
preference as to who should fill the first place. New England was solid for Adams, who, however,
had little strength beyond the limits of this Federal stronghold. New York and the Southern
States with inconsiderable exceptions were Republican. Pennsylvania was so divided in the legislature
that her entire vote would have been lost but for a compromise which gave to the Republicans
one vote more than to the Federalists. Adams being out of the question, the election to the
first place lay between Jefferson and Burr, both Republicans. The Federalists, therefore, had
their option between the two Republican candidates, and the result was within the reach of
that most detestable of combinations, a political bargain. Mr. Gallatin's position in this
condition of affairs was controlling. His loyalty to Jefferson was unquestioned, while Burr
was the favorite of the large Republican party in New York whose leaders were Mr. Gallatin's
immediate friends and warm supporters. Both Jefferson and Burr were accused of bargaining to
secure enough of the Federalist vote to turn the scale. That Mr. Jefferson did make some sacrifice
of his independence is now believed. Whether Mr. Gallatin was aware of any such compromise
is uncertain. If such bargain were made, General Samuel Smith was the channel of arrangement,
and in view of the inexplicable and ignominious deference of Jefferson and Madison to his political
demands, there is little doubt that he held a secret power which they dared not resist. Gallatin
felt it, suffered from it, protested against it, but submitted to it.

The fear was that Congress might adjourn without a conclusion. To meet this emergency Mr. Gallatin
devised a plan of balloting in the House, which he communicated to Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Nicholas.
It stated the objects of the Federalists to be, 1st, to elect Burr; 2d, to defeat the present
election and order a new one; 3d, to assume executive power during the interregnum. These he
considers, and suggests alternative action in case of submission or resistance on the part
of the Republicans. The Federalists, holding three branches of government, viz., the presidency,
a majority in the Senate, and a majority in the House, might pass a law declaring that one
of the great officers designated by the Constitution should act as president pro tempore, which
would be constitutional. But while Mr. Gallatin in this paragraph admitted such a law to be
constitutional, in the next he argued that the act of the person designated by law, or of the
president pro tempore, assuming the power is clearly "unconstitutional." By this ingenious
process of reasoning, to which the strict constructionists have always been partial, it might
be unconstitutional to carry out constitutional law. The assumption of such power was therefore,
Mr. Gallatin held, usurpation, to be resisted in one of two ways; by declaring the interval
till the next session of Congress an interregnum, allowing all laws not immediately connected
with presidential powers to take their course, and opposing a silent resistance to all others;
or by the Republicans assuming the executive power by a joint act of the two candidates, or
by the relinquishment of all claims by one of them. On the other hand, the proposed outlines
of Republican conduct were, 1st, to persevere in voting for Mr. Jefferson; 2d, to use every
endeavor to defeat any law on the subject; 3d, to try to persuade Mr. Adams to refuse his consent
to any such law and not to call the Senate on any account if there should be no choice by the
House.

In a letter written in 1848 Mr. Gallatin said that a provision by law, that if there should
be no election the executive power be placed in the hands of some public officer, was a revolutionary
act of usurpation which would have been put down by force if necessary. It was threatened that,
if any man should be thus appointed President he should instantly be put to death, and bodies
of men were said to be organized, in Maryland and Virginia, ready to march to Washington on
March 4 for that purpose. The fears of violence were so great that to Governor McKean of Pennsylvania
was submitted the propriety of having a body of militia in readiness to reach the capital in
time to prevent civil war. From this letter of Mr. Gallatin, then the last surviving witness
of the election, only one conclusion can be drawn: that the Republicans would have preferred
violent resistance to temporary submission, even though the officer exercising executive powers
was appointed in accordance with law. Fortunately for the young country there was enough good
sense and patriotism in the ranks of the Federalists to avert the danger.

On the suggestion of Mr. Bayard it was agreed by a committee of sixteen members, one from each
State, that if it should appear that the two persons highest on the list, Jefferson and Burr,
had an equal number of votes, the House should immediately proceed in their own chamber to
choose the president by ballot, and should not adjourn until an election should have been made.
On the first ballot there was a tie between Jefferson and Burr; the deadlock continued until
February 17, when the Federalists abandoned the contest, and Mr. Jefferson received the requisite
number of votes. Burr, having the second number, became vice-president.

Mr. Gallatin's third congressional term closed with this Congress. In his first term he asserted
his power and took his place in the councils of the party. In his second, he became its acknowledged
chief. In the third, he led its forces to final victory. But for his opposition, war would
have been declared against France, and the Republican party would have disappeared in the political
chasm. But for his admirable management, Mr. Jefferson would have been relegated to the study
of theoretical government on his Monticello farm, or to play second fiddle at the Capitol to
the music of Aaron Burr.

In the foregoing analysis of the debates and resolutions of Congress, and the recital of the
part taken in them by Mr. Gallatin, attention has only been paid to such of the proceedings
as concerned the interpretation of the Constitution or the forms of administration with which
Mr. Gallatin interested himself. From the day of his first appearance he commanded the attention
and the respect of his fellows. The leadership of his party fell to him as of course. It was
not grasped by him. He was never a partisan. He never waived his entire independence of judgment.
His ingenuity and adroitness never tempted him to untenable positions. Hence his party followed
him with implicit confidence. Yet while the debates of Congress, imperfectly reported as they
seem to be in its annals, show the deference paid to him by the Republican leaders, and display
the great share he took in the definition of powers and of administration as now understood,
his name is hardly mentioned in history. Jefferson and Madison became presidents of the United
States. They, with Gallatin, formed the triumvirate which ruled the country for sixteen years.
Gallatin was the youngest of the three.[9] To this political combination Gallatin brought a
knowledge of constitutional law equal to their own, a knowledge of international law superior
to that of either, and a habit of practical administration of which they had no conception.
The Republican party lost its chief when Gallatin left the House; from that day it floundered
to its close.

In the balance of opinion there are no certain weights and measures. The preponderance of causes
cannot be precisely ascertained. The freedom which the people of the United States enjoy to-day
is not the work of any one party. Those who are descended from its original stock, and those
whom its free institutions have since invited to full membership, owe that freedom to two causes:
the one, formulated by Hamilton, a strong, central power, which, deriving its force from the
people, maintains its authority at home and secures respect abroad; the other, the spirit of
liberty which found expression in the famous declaration of the rights of man. This influence
Jefferson represented. It taught the equality of man; not equality before the law alone, nor
yet political equality, but that absolute freedom from class distinction which is true social
equality; in a word, mutual respect. But for Hamilton we might be a handful of petty States,
in discordant confederation or perpetual war; but for Jefferson, a prey to the class jealousy
which unsettles the social relations and threatens the political existence of European States.
409.]

[Footnote 5: Gallatin later described Jackson as he first saw him in his seat in the House:
"A tall, lank, uncouth looking individual, with long locks of hair hanging over his brows and
face, while a queue hung down his back tied in an eelskin. The dress of this individual was
singular, his manners and deportment that of a backwoodsman." Bartlett's Reminiscences of Gallatin.]

[Footnote 6: The phrase "stop the wheels of government" originated with "Peter Porcupine" (William
Cobbett) and was on every tongue.]

[Footnote 7: Charles C. Pinckney, when ambassador to France, 1796.]

[Footnote 8: Jefferson to William Duane, March 28, 1811. Jefferson's Works, vol. v. p. 574.]

[Footnote 9: Jefferson was born in 1743, Madison in 1751, Gallatin in 1761.]

CHAPTER VI

SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

Funding

The material comfort of every people depends more immediately upon the correct management of
its finances than upon any other branch of government. Haute finance, to use a French expression
for which there is no English equivalent, demands in its application the faculties of organization
and administration in their highest degree. The relations of money to currency and credit,
and their relations to industry and agriculture, or in modern phrase of capital to labor, fall
within its scope. The history of France, the nation which has best understood and applied true
principles of finance, supplies striking examples of the benefits a finance minister of the
first order renders to his country, and the dangers of false theories. The marvelous restoration
of its prosperity by the genius of Colbert, the ruin caused by the malign sciolism of Law,
are familiar to all students of political economy. Nor has the United States been less favored.
The names of Morris, Hamilton, Gallatin, and Chase shine with equal lustre.

Morris, the Financier of the Revolution, was called to the administration of the money department
of the United States government when there was no money to administer. Before his appointment
as "Financier" the expenses of the government, military and civil, had been met by expedients;
by foreign loans, lotteries, and loan office certificates; finally by continental money, or,
more properly speaking, bills of credit emitted by authority of Congress and made legal tender
by joint action of Congress and the several States. The relation of coin to paper in this motley
currency appears in the appendix to the "Journal of Congress" for the year 1778, when the government
paid out in fourteen issues of paper currency, $62,154,842; in specie, $78,666; in French livres,
$28,525.[10] The power of taxation was jealously withheld by the States, and Congress could
not go beyond recommending to them to levy taxes for the withdrawal of the bills emitted by
it for their quotas, pari passu with their issue. When the entire scheme of paper money failed,
the necessary supplies for the army were levied in kind. In the spring of 1781 the affairs
of the Treasury Department were investigated by a committee of Congress, and an attempt was
made to ascertain the precise condition of the public debt. The amount of foreign debt was
approximately reached, but the record of the domestic debt was inextricably involved, and never
definitely discovered. Morris soon brought order out of this chaos. His plan was to liquidate
the public indebtedness in specie, and fund it in interest-bearing bonds. The Bank of North
America was established, the notes of which were soon preferred to specie as a medium of exchange.
Silver, then in general use as the measure of value, was adopted as the single standard. The
weight and pureness of the dollar were fixed by law. The dollar was made the unit of account
and payment, and subdivisions were made in a decimal ratio. This was the dollar of our fathers.
Gouverneur Morris, the assistant of the Financier, suggested the decimal computation, and Jefferson
the dollar as the unit of account and payment. The board of treasury, which for five years
had administered the finances in a bungling way, was dissolved by Congress in the fall of 1781,
and Morris was left in sole control. Semi-annual statements of the public indebtedness were
now begun. The expenses of the government were steadily and inflexibly cut down to meet the
diminishing income. A loan was negotiated in Holland, and, with the aid of Franklin, the amount
of indebtedness to France was established.

The public debt on January 1, 1783, was $42,000,375, of which $7,885,088 was foreign, bearing
four and five per cent. interest; and $34,115,290 was held at home at six per cent. The total
amount of interest was $2,415,956. No means were provided for the payment of either principal
or interest. In July of the previous year Morris urged the wisdom of funding the public debt,
in a masterly letter to the president of Congress. On December 16 a sinking fund was provided
for by a resolution, which, though inadequate to the purpose, was at least a declaration of
principle. In February, 1784, Morris notified Congress of his intended retirement from office.
He may justly be termed the father of the American system of finance. In his administration
he inflexibly maintained the determination, with which he assumed the office, to apply the
public funds to the purpose to which they were appropriated. He declared that he would "neither
pay the interest of our debts out of the moneys which are called for to carry on the war, nor
pay the expenses of the war from the funds which are called for to pay the interest of our
debts." One new feature of Morris's administration was the beginning of the sale of public lands.

On the retirement of Mr. Morris, November, 1784, a new board of treasury was charged with the
administration of the finances, and continued in control until September 30, 1788, when a committee,
raised to examine into the affairs of the department, rendered a pitiful report of mismanagement
for which the board had not the excuse of their predecessors during the war. They had only
to observe the precepts which Morris had enunciated, and to follow the methods he had prescribed,
with the aid of the assistants he had trained. But the taxes collected had not been covered
into the Treasury by the receivers. Large sums advanced for secret service were not accounted
for; and the entire system of responsibility had been disregarded. John Adams attributed all
the distresses at this period to "a downright ignorance of the nature of coin, credit and circulation;"
an ignorance not yet dispelled. More truly could he have said that our distresses arose from
willful neglect of the principle of accountability in the public service.

The first Congress under the new Constitution met at New York on March 4, 1789, but it was
not until the autumn that the executive administration of the government was organized by the
creation of the three departments: State, Treasury, and War.

The bill establishing the Treasury Department passed Congress on September 2, 1789. Hamilton
was appointed secretary by Washington on September 11. On September 21 the House directed the
secretary to examine into and report a financial plan. On the assembling of Congress, June
14, 1790, Hamilton communicated to the House his first report, known as that on public credit.
The boldness of Hamilton's plan startled and divided the country. Funding resolutions were
introduced into the House. The first, relating to the foreign debt, passed unanimously; the
second, providing for the liquidation of the domestic obligations, was sharply debated, but
in the end Hamilton's scheme was adopted. The resolutions providing for the assumption of the
state debts, which he embodied in his report, aroused an opposition still more formidable,
and it was not until August 4 that by political machinery this part of his plan received the
assent of Congress. To provide for the interest on the debt and the expenses of the government,
the import and navigation duties were raised to yield the utmost revenue available; but, in
the temper of Congress, the excise law was not pressed at this session. The secretary had securely
laid the foundations of his policy. Time and sheer necessity would compel the completion of
his work in essential accord with his original design. The President's message at the opening
of the winter session added greatly to the prestige of Hamilton's policy by calling attention
to the great prosperity of the country and the remarkable rise in public credit. The excise
law, modified to apply to distilled spirits, passed the House in January. The principle of
a direct tax was admitted. On December 14, 1790, in obedience to an order of the House requiring
the secretary to report further provision for the public credit, Hamilton communicated his
plans for a national bank. Next in order came the establishment of a national mint. Thus in
two sessions of Congress, and in the space of little more than a year from the time when he
took charge of the Treasury, Hamilton conceived and carried to successful conclusion an entire
scheme of finance.

One more measure in the comprehensive system of public credit crowned the solid structure of
which the funding of the debt was the cornerstone. This was the establishment of the sinking
fund for the redemption of the debt. Hamilton conformed his plan to the maxim, which, to use
his words, "has been supposed capable of giving immortality to credit, namely, that with the
creation of debts should be incorporated the means of extinguishment, which are twofold. 1st.
The establishing, at the time of contracting a debt, funds for the reimbursement of the principal,
as well as for the payment of interest within a determinate period. 2d. The making it a part
of the contract, that the fund so established shall be inviolably applied to the object." The
ingenuity and skill with which this master of financial science managed the Treasury Department
for more than five years need no word of comment. Nor do they fall within the scope of this
outline of the features of his policy. His reports are the textbook of American political economy.
Whoever would grasp its principles must seek them in this limpid source, and study the methods
he applied to revenue and loans.

On the resignation of Hamilton, January 31, 1795, Washington invited Wolcott, who was familiar
with the views of Hamilton and on such intimate terms with him that he could always have his
advice in any difficult emergency, to take the post. Wolcott had been connected with the department
from its organization, first as auditor, afterwards as comptroller of the Treasury. He held
the Treasury until nearly the end of Adams's administration. On November 8, 1800, upon the
open breach between Mr. Adams and the Hamilton wing of the Federal party, Wolcott, whose sympathies
were wholly with his old chief, tendered his resignation, to take effect at the close of the
year. On December 31 Mr. Samuel Dexter was appointed to administer the department. But the
days of the Federal party were now numbered: it fell of its own dissensions, "wounded in the
house of its friends."

There is little in the administration of the finances by Wolcott to attract comment. He managed
the details of the department with integrity and skill. On his retirement a committee of the
House on the condition of the Treasury was appointed. No similar examination had been made
since May 22, 1794. On January 28, 1801, Mr. Otis, chairman of the committee, submitted the
results of the investigation in an unanimous report that the business of the Treasury Department
had been conducted with regularity, fidelity, and a regard to economy; that the disbursements
of money had always been made pursuant to law, and generally that the financial concerns of
the country had been left by the late secretary in a state of good order and prosperity. During
his six years of administration of the finances Wolcott negotiated six loans, amounting in
all to $2,820,000. The emergencies were extraordinary,--the expenses of the suppression of
the Whiskey Insurrection in 1794, and the sum required to effect a treaty of peace with Algiers
in 1795. To fund these sums Mr. Wolcott had recourse to an expedient which marked an era in
American finance. This was the creation of new stock, subscribed for at home. No loan had been
previously placed by the government among its own citizens. Between 1795 and 1798, four and
a half, five, and six per cent. stocks were created. In 1798 the condition of the country was
embarrassing. There was a threatening prospect of war. Foreign loans were precarious and improvident;
the market rate of interest was eight per cent. Under these circumstances an eight per cent.
stock was created, not redeemable until 1809. An Act of March 3, 1795, provided for vesting
in the sinking fund the surplus revenues of each year.

In the formation of the first Republican cabinet Mr. Gallatin was obviously Mr. Jefferson's
first choice for the Treasury. The appointment was nevertheless attended with some difficulties
of a political and party nature. The paramount importance of the department was a legacy of
Hamilton's genius. Its possession was the Federalist stronghold, and the Senate, which held
the confirming power, was still controlled by a Federalist majority. To them Mr. Gallatin was
more obnoxious than any other of the Republican leaders. In the few days that he held a seat
in the Senate (1793) he offended Hamilton, and aroused the hostility of the friends of the
secretary by a call for information as to the condition of the Treasury. As member of Congress
in 1796 he questioned Hamilton's policy, and during Adams's entire administration was a perpetual
thorn in the sides of Hamilton's successors in the department. The day after his election,
February 18, 1801, Mr. Jefferson communicated to Mr. Gallatin the names of the gentlemen he
had already determined upon for his cabinet, and tendered him the Treasury. The only alternative
was Madison; but he, with all his reputation as a statesman and party leader, was without skill
as a financier, and in the debate on the Funding Bill in 1790 had shown his ignorance in the
impracticability of his plans. If Jefferson ever entertained the thought of nominating Madison
to the Treasury, political necessity absolutely forbade it. That necessity Mr. Gallatin, by
his persistent assaults on the financial policy of the Federalists, had himself created, and
he alone of the Republican leaders was competent to carry out the reforms in the administration
of the government, and to contrive the consequent reduction in revenue and taxation, which
were cardinal points of Republican policy. Public opinion had assigned Gallatin to the post,
and the newspapers announced his nomination before Mr. Jefferson was elected, and before he
had given any indication of his purpose. To his wife Mr. Gallatin expressed some doubt whether
his abilities were equal to the office, and whether the Senate would confirm him, and said,
certainly with sincerity, 'that he would not be sorry nor hurt in his feelings if his nomination
should be rejected, for exclusively of the immense responsibility, labor, etc., attached to
the intended office, another plan which would be much more agreeable to him and to her had
been suggested, not by his political friends, but by his New York friends.' He was by no means
comfortable in his finances, and he had already formed a plan of studying law and removing
to New York. He had made up his mind to leave the western country, which would necessarily
end his congressional career. His wife was forlorn in his absence, and suffered so many hardships
in her isolated residence that he felt no reluctance to the change. To one of his wife's family
he wrote at this time:--

     "As a political situation, the place of secretary of the treasury
     is doubtless more eligible and congenial to my habits; but it is
     more laborious and responsible than any other, and the same
     industry which will be necessary to fulfill its duties, applied to
     another object, would at the end of two years have left me in the
     possession of a profession which I might have exercised either in
     Philadelphia or New York. But our plans are all liable to
     uncertainty, and I must now cheerfully undertake that which had
     never been the object of my ambition or wishes."

Well might he hesitate as he witnessed the distress which had overtaken the great party which
for twelve years had held the posts of political honor. Fortunately, perhaps for himself and
certainly for his party and the country, the proposition came at a time when he had definitively
determined upon a change of career. His situation was difficult. The hostility of the Federal
senators, and the great exertions which were being made to defeat the appointment, led him
to the opinion that, if presented on March 4, it would be rejected. There was the alternative
of delay until after that date, which would involve a postponement of the confirmation until
the meeting of Congress in December, but there was no certainty that it would then be ratified.
Meanwhile he would be compelled to remove to Washington at some sacrifice and expense. He therefore
at first positively refused "to come in on any terms but a confirmation by the Senate first
given." He was finally induced to comply with the general wish of his political friends. The
appointment was withheld by the President that the feeling in the Senate might be judged from
its action on the rest of the nominations submitted. They were all approved, and Mr. Dexter
consented to hold over until his successor should be appointed. Thus Mr. Gallatin's convenience
was entirely consulted. He remained in Washington a few days to confer with the President as
to the general conduct of the administration, and on March 14 set out for Fayette to put his
affairs in order and to bring his wife and family to Washington. On May 14 Jefferson wrote
to Macon, "The arrival of Mr. Gallatin yesterday completed the organization of our administration."

Mr. Gallatin soon realized the magnitude of his task. He did nothing by halves. To whatever
work he had to do, he brought the best of his faculty. No man ever better deserved the epithet
of "thorough." He searched till he found the principle of every measure with which he had concern
and understood every detail of its application. This perfect knowledge of every subject which
he investigated was the secret of his political success. As a committee man, he was incomparable.
No one could be better equipped for the direction of the Treasury Department than he, but he
was not satisfied with direction; he would manage also; and he went to the work with untiring
energy. A quarter of a century later he said of it, in a letter to his son, "To fill that office
in the manner I did, and as it ought to be filled, is a most laborious task and labor of the
most tedious kind. To fit myself for it, to be able to understand thoroughly, to embrace and
control all its details, took from me, during the two first years I held it, every hour of
the day and many of the night and had nearly brought on a pulmonary complaint. I filled the
office twelve years and was fairly worn out."

Mr. Gallatin first drew public attention to his knowledge of finance in the Pennsylvania legislature.
An extract from his memorandum of his three years' service gives the best account of this incident.
In it appear the carefully matured convictions which he inflexibly maintained.

This report was printed in the Journal of the House, February 8, 1791. The next year he made
a report on the same subject which was printed February 22, 1792.

But his equal grasp of larger subjects was shown in his sketch of the finances of the United
States, which he published in November, 1796. It presents under three sections the revenues,
the expenses, and the debts of the United States, each subdivided into special heads. The arguments
are supported by elaborate tabular statements. No such exhaustive examination had been made
of the state of the American finances. The one cardinal principle which he laid down was the
extinguishment of debt. He severely criticised Hamilton's methods of funding, and outlined
those which he himself later applied. He charged upon Hamilton direct violations of law in
the application of money, borrowed as principal, to the payment of interest on that principal.
The public funds he regarded as three in number: 1st, the sinking fund; 2d, the surplus fund;
3d, the general fund.

In July, 1800, Mr. Gallatin published a second pamphlet, "Views of the Public Debt, Receipts,
and Expenditures of the United States," the object of the inquiry being to ascertain the result
of the fiscal operations of the government under the Constitution. The entire field of American
finance is examined from its beginning. He severely condemns the mode of assumption of the
state debts in Hamilton's original plan, and no doubt his strictures are technically correct.
The debts assumed for debtor States were not due by the United States, nor was there any moral
reason for their assumption. But the assumption was sound financial policy, and all the cost
to the nation was amply repaid by the order which their assumption drew out of chaos, and the
vigor given to the general credit by the strengthening of that of its parts. The course of
the Federalists and Republicans on this question shows that the former had at heart the welfare
of all the States, while the latter confined their interest to their own body politic.

Had Mr. Gallatin never penned another line on finance, these two remarkable papers would place
him in the first rank of economists and statisticians. There are no errors in his figures,
no flaws in his reasoning, no faults in his deductions. In construction and detail, as parts
of a complete financial system of administration, they are beyond criticism. Opinions may differ
as to the ends sought, but not as to the means to those ends.

For a long period Mr. Gallatin found no more time for essays; he was now to apply his methods.
These may be traced in his printed treasury reports, which are lucid and instructive. He was
appointed to the Treasury on May 14, 1801, as appears by the official record in the State Department.
Before he entered on the duties of the office he submitted to Mr. Jefferson, March 14, 1801,
some rough sketches of the financial situation, and suggested the general outlines of his policy.
He insisted upon a curtailment in the appropriations for the naval and military establishments,
the only saving adequate to the repeal of all internal duties; and upon the discharge of the
foreign debt within the period of its obligation. He estimated that the probable receipts and
expenditures for the year 1801 would leave a surplus of more than two millions of dollars applicable
to the redemption of the debt.

On taking personal charge of the Treasury Department, his first business was to get rid of
the arrears of current business which had accumulated since the retirement of Wolcott; his
next, to perfect the internal revenue system, so far as it could be remedied without new legislation.
The entire summer of 1801 was passed in "arranging, or rather procuring correct statements
amongst the Treasury documents," a task of such difficulty that he was unwilling, on November
15, to arrive at an estimate of the revenue within half a million, or to commit himself to
any opinion as to the feasibility of abolishing the internal revenues. In his "notes" submitted
to Jefferson upon the draft of his first message, there are several passages of interest which
show Mr. Gallatin's logical habit of searching out economic causes. Under the head of finances,
he remarks, "The revenue has increased more than in the same ratio with population: 1st, because
our wealth has increased in a greater ratio than population; 2d, because the seaports and towns,
which consume imported articles much more than the country, have increased in a greater proportion."
The final paragraph in these "notes" is a synopsis of his entire scheme of administration.

     "There is but one subject not mentioned in the message which I feel
     extremely anxious to see recommended. It is generally that Congress
     should adopt such measures as will effectually guard against
     misapplications of public moneys, by making specific appropriations
     whenever practicable; by providing against the application of
     moneys drawn from the Treasury under an appropriation to any other
     object or to any greater amount than that for which they have been
     drawn; by limiting discretionary power in the application of that
     money; whether by heads of department or by any other agents; and
     by rendering every person who receives public moneys from the
     Treasury as immediately, promptly, and effectually accountable to
     the accounting officer (the comptroller) as practicable. The great
     characteristic, the flagrant vice, of the late administration has
     been total disregard of laws, and application of public moneys by
     the Department to objects for which they were not appropriate."

Outlines for a system of specific appropriations were inclosed.

That the mission of Jefferson's administration was the reduction of the debt, Gallatin set
forth in his next letter of November 16, 1801. "I am firmly of opinion that if the present
administration and Congress do not take the most effective measures for that object, the debt
will be entailed on us and the ensuing generations, together with all the systems which support
it, and which it supports." On the other hand he says, "If this administration shall not reduce
taxes, they never will be permanently reduced." To reduce both the debt and the taxes was as
much a political as a financial problem. To solve it required the reduction to a minimum of
the departments of War and Marine. But Mr. Jefferson was not a practical statesman. His individuality
was too strong for much surrender of opinion. He stated the case very mildly when he wrote
in his retirement that he sometimes differed in opinion from some of his friends, from those
whose views were as "pure and as sound as his own." It was not his habit to consult his entire
cabinet except on general measures. The heads of each department set their views before him
separately. Under this system Mr. Gallatin was never able to realize that harmonious interdependence
of departments and subordination of ways to means which were his ideal of cabinet administration.

The successful application of Mr. Gallatin's plan would have subordinated all the executive
departments to the Treasury. The theory was perfect, but it took no account of the greed of
office, the jealousies of friends, the opposition of enemies, and the unknown factor of foreign
relations. A speck on the horizon would cloud the peaceful prospect, a hostile threat derange
the intricate machinery by which the delicate financial balance was maintained. Mr. Gallatin
was fast realizing the magnitude of his undertaking, in which he was greatly embarrassed by
the difficulty of finding faithful examining clerks, on whose correctness and fidelity a just
settlement of all accounts depends. The number of independent offices attached to the Treasury
made the task still more arduous. He wrote to Jefferson at this time, "It will take me twelve
months before I can thoroughly understand every detail of all these several offices. Current
business and the more general and important duties of the office do not permit me to learn
the lesser details, but incidentally and by degrees. Until I know them all I dare not touch
the machine." One of the acquirements which he considered indispensable for a secretary of
the treasury was a "thorough knowledge of book-keeping." The recollection of his persistent
demands for information from Hamilton and Wolcott during his congressional career would have
stung the conscience of an ordinary man. But Gallatin was not an ordinary man. He asked nothing
of others which he himself was not willing to perform. His ideal was high, but he reached its
summit. It seems almost as if, in his persistent demand that money accountability should be
imposed by law upon the Treasury Department, he sought to set the measure of his own duty,
while in the requirement that it should be extended to the other departments, he pledged himself
to the perfect accomplishment of that duty in his own.

In his first report to Congress,[11] made December 18, 1801, Mr. Gallatin submitted his financial
estimate for the year 1802.

REVENUE.                  EXPENDITURES.

Imposts       $9,500,000  Int. on debts. $7,100,000
Lands     }      450,000  Civil List        980,000
Postages  }               Army            1,420,000
Internal Rev.    650,000  Navy            1,100,000
              ----------                 ----------
             $10,600,000                $10,600,000

Mr. Wolcott, in his last report to the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, stated the amount
in the Treasury to its credit at $500,718. Mr. Gallatin denied that there was any such surplus,
but said that instead of a credit balance the treasury books showed a deficiency of $930,128
on the aggregate revenue from the establishment of the government to the close of the year
1799. Elliott, in his "Funding System," said concerning this once vexed controversy, that it
was difficult to reconcile such a diversity of opinion on so intricate a subject; and concerning
the official statements of Hamilton and Wolcott, that it was hardly to be credited that they
were so superficial or imperfect. Mr. Gallatin himself furnishes the apology that the difference
might arise from "entries made or omitted on erroneous principles." To the Federal financiers
the palliation was as offensive as the charge, and rankled long and sore. If it were not possible,
when Elliott made an examination, to arrive at the precise facts, it is certainly now a secret
as secure from discovery as the lost sibylline leaves.

Mr. Gallatin stated the debt of the United States--

On January 1, 1801, at          $80,161,207.60
On January 1, 1802, at           77,881,890.29
                               ---------------
Reduction                        $2,279,317.31

This difference was the amount of principal paid during the year 1801, the result of the management
of his predecessors. On December 18, 1801, Mr. Gallatin entered upon an examination of the
time in which the total debt might be discharged, and showed that, by the annual application
of $7,300,000 to the principal and interest the debt would in eight years, i. e. on January
1, 1810, be reduced (by the payment of $32,289,000 of the principal) to $45,592,739, and that
the same annual sum of $7,300,000 would discharge the whole debt by the year 1817. The revenues
of the Union he found sufficient to defray all the current expenses. In his report to Congress
at the beginning of the session he designated this sum of $7,300,000 to be set aside from the
revenues, and Congress gave the requisite authority. An extract from a tabular statement submitted
to the House of Representatives, April 16, 1810, will show how nearly Mr. Gallatin approached
the result at which he aimed, and the nature of the embarrassment he encountered on the path.

------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------------+
      |  Amount of   |    Payments  |   Debt        |   Annual    |
Years.| Public Debt  |      on      |   Contracted. |   Increase. |
      | January 1st. |   Principal. |               |             |
------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------------+
1802  |$80,712,632.25| $3,657,945.95|        -      |       -     |
1803  | 77,054,686.30|  5,627,565.42|  $15,000,000* |$9,372,434.58|
1804  | 86,427,120.88|  4,114,970.38|        -      |       -     |
1805  | 82,312,150.50|  6,588,879.84|        -      |       -     |
1806  | 75,723,270.66|  6,504,872.02|        -      |       -     |
1807  | 69,218,398.64|  4,022,080.67|        -      |       -     |
1808  | 65,196,317.97|  8,173,125.88|        -      |       -     |
1809  | 57,023,192.09|  3,850,889.77|        -      |       -     |
1810  | 53,172,302.32|        -     |        -      |        -    |
------+--------------+--------------+---------------+-------------+
-----------------
     Annual
     Decrease.
-----------------
   $3,657,948.95
         -
    4,114,970.38
    6,588,879.84
    6,504,872.02
    4,022,080.67
    8,173,125.88
    3,850,889.77
         -
-----------------
                         * Louisiana purchase.

1802  $80,712,632.25    Decrease           $36,912,764.51
1810   53,172,302.32    Increase             9,372,434.58
      --------------                       --------------
      $27,540,329.93    Decrease in 8 yrs. $27,540,329.93

From this it appears that, notwithstanding the extraordinary increase of the principal by the
amount of the Louisiana purchase, Mr. Gallatin contrived a reduction of $27,540,329. But if
to this be added the true reduction for the year 1803, namely, the difference between the Louisiana
debt, $15,000,000, and the increase for that year, by reason of that purchase, $9,372,434,
say $6,627,565, the reduction is found to be, and but for that disturbing cause would have
reached, $34,167,895, a sum exceeding by $1,878,895 that estimated by Mr. Gallatin in his report
of 1801 as the amount of eight years' reduction, namely, $32,289,000.

The ways and means of this remarkable example of financial management appear in the following
extracts from Elliott's synoptical statement (table given on page 194).

The purchase of Louisiana was the extraordinary financial measure of Jefferson's first presidential
term. Though the new obligation for the consideration money, fifteen millions of dollars, was
a large sum in proportion to the total existing debt of the United States, it did not in the
least derange Gallatin's plan of funding and reduction, but was brought without friction within
his general scheme. With the terms of the contract Gallatin had nothing to do. They were arranged
by Livingston and Monroe, the American commissioners; the intervention of the houses of Hope
and the Barings being a part of the understanding between the commissioners and the French
government. These bankers engaged to make the money payments and take six per cent. stock of
the United States at seventy-eight and one half cents on the dollar. With this price Mr. Gallatin
does not seem to have been satisfied, though of course he interposed no objection to the terms;
but to Jefferson he wrote, August 31, 1803, that the low price at which that stock had been
sold, was "not ascribable to the state of public credit nor to any act of your administration,
and particularly of the Treasury Department;" and he adds in a postscript, "at that period
our threes were in England worth one per cent. more at market than the English."

RECEIPTS.

------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------+
Four years        |   Customs.     |   Internal    |   Direct    |
ending            |                |   Revenue.    |   Taxes.    |
December 31.      |                |               |             |
------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------+
Adams, 1800       | $30,347,093.62 | $2,808,382.37 | $734,223.97 |
                  +--------------- +-------------- +------------ +
Jefferson, 1804   |  44,766,997.61 |  1,936,053.30 |  862,986.46 |
           1808   |  59,813,257.40 |     63,110.73 |  131,539.54 |
                  +--------------- +-------------- +------------ +
                  | 104,580,255.01 |  1,999,146.03 |  994,526.00 |
------------------+----------------+---------------+-------------+

------------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+
Four years        |   Postage.  |   Public     |    Loans and  |
ending            |             |    Lands.    |    Treasury   |
December 31.      |             |              |    Notes.     |
------------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+
Adams, 1800       | $223,000.00 |   $95,947.46 | $7,055,791.25 |
                  +-------------+--------------+---------------+
Jefferson, 1804   |  157,427.26 | 1,009,556.56 |     25,255.00 |
           1808   |   60,074.90 | 2,419,541.86 |    179,534.81 |
                  +-------------+--------------+---------------+
                  |  217,502.10 | 3,429,098.42 |    205,089.81 |
------------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+

------------------+--------------+----------------+----------------
Four years        |  Dividends   | Miscellaneous. |   Total.
ending            | and sales of |                |
December 31.      |  Bank Stock. |                |
------------------+--------------+-------------- -+----------------
Adams, 1800       |  $607,220.00 |   $168,971.76  | $42,040,630.45
                  +--------------+----------------+----------------
Jefferson, 1804   | 1,416,360.00 |    672,148.72  |  50,846,784.91
           1808   |       --     |     85,782.03  |  62,758,841.27
                  +--------------+----------------+----------------
                  | 1,416,360.00 |    757,930.75  | 113,605,626.18
------------------+--------------+----------------+----------------

EXPENDITURES.

------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------+
Four years        | Civil List.   | Foreign       |Miscellaneous.|
ending            |               | Intercourse   |              |
December 31.      |               | including     |              |
                  |               | Awards.       |              |
------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------+
Adams, 1800       | $2,329,433.08 | $1,793,879.57 |  $621,633.37 |
                  +---------------+---------------+--------------+
Jefferson, 1804   |  2,297,648.17 |  3,144,093.00 | 1,169,601.87 |
           1808   |  2,616,772.77 |  5,441,669.24 | 1,721,876.87 |
                  +---------------+---------------+--------------+
                  |  4,914,420.94 |  8,585,762.24 | 2,891,478.74 |
------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------+

------------------+---------------+-------------+--------------+
Four years        |  Military     | Pensions.   |  Indian      |
ending            |  Forts, etc.  |             |  Department. |
December 31.      |               |             |              |
                  |               |             |              |
------------------+---------------+-------------+--------------+
Adams, 1800       | $8,076,750.71 | $356,677.06 |   $99,299.88 |
                  +---------------+-------------+--------------+
Jefferson, 1804   |  4,549,572.11 |  301,968.66 |   279,500.00 |
           1808   |  6,126,656.97 |  316,806.16 |   849,700.00 |
                  +---------------+-------------+--------------+
                  | 10,676,229.08 |  618,774.82 | 1,129,200.00 |
------------------+---------------+-------------+--------------+

------------------+----------------+----------------+----------------
Four years        |    Naval       |  Public Debt.  |      Total.
ending            | Establishment. |                |
December 31.      |                |                |
                  |                |                |
------------------+----------------+----------------+----------------
Adams, 1800       | $8,070,777.52  | $18,957,962.69 | $40,306,413.88
                  +----------------+----------------+----------------
Jefferson, 1804   |  5,432,049.15  |  32,258,658.68 |  49,433,091.64
           1808   |  6,853,673.79  |  32,927,739.85 |  56,854,985.65
                  +----------------+----------------+----------------
                  | 12,285,722.94  |  65,186,398.53 | 106,288,077.29
------------------+----------------+----------------+----------------

Adams--Receipts            $42,040,630.45
Adams--Expenditures         40,306,413.88
                           --------------
Under Wolcott, Secretary     1,734,216.57

Jefferson--Receipts       $113,605,626.18
Jefferson--Expenditures    106,288,077.29
                           --------------
Under Gallatin, Secretary    7,317,584.89[12]

[**Transcriber's Note: Some of the numbers in the above tables do not add up, but reflect the
actual numbers given in the original document.]

The arrangements being completed, Jefferson called Congress together in October, 1803, for
a ratification of the treaty; the commissioners, by virtue of the authority granted them, had
already guaranteed the advance by the Barings of ten million livres ($2,000,000). On October
25, 1803, Gallatin made a report to Congress on the state of the finances. It showed a reduction
of the public debt in the two and one half years of his management, April 1, 1801, to September
30, 1803, of $12,702,404. The only question to be considered was whether any additional revenues
were wanted to provide for the new debt which would result from the purchase of Louisiana.

The sum called for by treaty, fifteen millions, consisted of two items: 1st, $11,250,000 payable
to the government of France in a stock bearing an interest of six per cent. payable in Europe,
and the principal to be discharged at the Treasury of the United States; 2d, a sum which could
not exceed, but might fall short of, $3,750,000, payable in specie at the Treasury of the United
States to American citizens having claims of a certain description upon the government of France.

It is interesting here to note Mr. Gallatin's distinction between the place of payment of interest
and of principal as a new departure in American finance. The principal and interest of foreign
loans had up to that period been paid abroad. But a United States stock was an obligation of
a different character and properly payable at home. In the large negotiations which Secretary
Chase had in 1862 with the Treasury Note Committee of the Associated Banks,[13] this policy
was matter of grave debate. The determined American pride of Mr. Chase prevailed, and both
the principal and interest of the loans created were made payable at the Treasury of the United
States. These may be small matters in their financial result, but are grave points in national
policy.

The only financial legislation necessary to carry out the Louisiana purchase was a provision
that $700,000 of the duties on merchandise and tonnage, a sum sufficient to pay the interest
on the new debt, be added to the annual permanent appropriation for the sinking fund, making
a sum of $8,000,000 in all.

The new debt would, Gallatin said, neither impede nor retard the payment of the principal of
the old debt; and the fund would be sufficient, besides paying the interest on both, to discharge
the principal of the old debt before the year 1818, and of the new, within one year and a half
after that year. In this expectation he relied solely on the maintenance of the revenue at
the amount of the year 1802, and in no way depended on its probable increase as a result of
neutrality in the European war; nor on any augmentation by reason of increase of population
or wealth, nor the effect which the opening of the Mississippi to free navigation might be
expected to have on the sales of public lands and the general resources of the country.

In his report of December 9, 1805, Mr. Gallatin reviewed the results of his first four years
of service, April 1, 1801, to March 31, 1805.

                     RECEIPTS.

Duties on tonnage and importation of foreign merchandise                           $45,174,837.22

From all other sources                          5,492,629.82
                                              --------------
                                              $50,667,467.04
                                              ==============

                      EXPENDITURES.

Civil list and miscellaneous                   $3,786,094.79

Intercourse with foreign nations                1,071,437.84

Military establishment and Indian department    4,405,192.26

Naval establishment                             4,842,635.15

Interest on foreign debt                       16,278,700.95

Reimbursement of debt from surplus
revenue                                        19,281,446.57
                                              --------------
                                              $49,665,507.56

The Louisiana purchase and the admirable manner of its financial arrangement were important
factors in Jefferson's reëlection. Mr. Gallatin was now sure of four years, at least, for the
prosecution of his plan of redemption of the public debt. Estimating that with the increase
of population at the rate of thirty-five per cent. in ten years, and the corresponding growth
of the revenue, he could count upon a net annual surplus of $5,500,000, he now proposed to
convert the several outstanding obligations into a six per cent. stock amounting, January 1,
1809, to less than forty millions of dollars, which the continued annual appropriation of $8,000,000
would, besides paying the interest on the Louisiana debt, reimburse within a period of less
than seven years, or before the end of the year 1815. After that year no other incumbrance
would remain on the revenue than the interest and reimbursement of the Louisiana stock, the
last payment of which in the year 1821 would complete the final extinguishment of the public
debt. The conversion act was passed February 1, 1807, and books were opened on July 1 following.
On February 27, 1807, Mr. Gallatin made a special report on the state of the debt from 1801
to 1807, showing a diminution, notwithstanding the Louisiana purchase, of $14,260,000.

In the summer of 1807 war with England seemed inevitable. Gallatin had the satisfaction to
report a full treasury,--the amount of specie October 7, 1807, reaching over eight and one
half millions,--and an annual unappropriated surplus, which could be confidently relied upon,
of at least three millions of dollars. On this subject his remarks in the light of subsequent
history are of extreme interest. While refraining from any recommendations as to the application
of this surplus, either to "measures of security and defense," or to "internal improvements
which, while increasing and diffusing the national wealth, will strengthen the bonds of union,"
as "subjects which do not fall within the province of the Treasury Department," he proceeds
to consider the advantage of an accumulation in the Treasury. In this report he rises with
easy flight far above the purely financial atmosphere into the higher plane of political economy.

     "A previous accumulation of treasure in time of peace might in a
     great degree defray the extraordinary expenses of war and diminish
     the necessity of either loans or additional taxes. It would provide
     during periods of prosperity for those adverse events to which
     every nation is exposed, instead of increasing the burthens of the
     people at a time when they are least able to bear them, or of
     impairing, by anticipations, the resources of ensuing
     generations....

     "That the revenue of the United States will in subsequent years be
     considerably impaired by a war neither can nor ought to be
     concealed. It is, on the contrary, necessary, in order to be
     prepared for the crisis, to take an early view of the subject, and
     to examine the resources which should be selected for supplying the
     deficiency and defraying the extraordinary expenses....

     "Whether taxes should be raised to a greater amount or loans be
     altogether relied on for defraying the expenses of the war, is the
     next subject of consideration.

     "Taxes are paid by the great mass of the citizens, and immediately
     affect almost every individual of the community. Loans are supplied
     by capital previously accumulated by a few individuals. In a
     country where the resources of individuals are not generally and
     materially affected by the war, it is practicable and wise to raise
     by taxes the greater part at least of the annual supplies. The
     credit of the nation may also from various circumstances be at
     times so far impaired as to have no resource but taxation. In both
     respects the situation of the United States is totally
     dissimilar....

     "An addition to the debt is doubtless an evil, but experience
     having now shown with what rapid progress the revenue of the Union
     increases in time of peace, with what facility the debt, formerly
     contracted, has in a few years been reduced, a hope may confidently
     be entertained that all the evils of the war will be temporary and
     easily repaired, and that the return of peace will, without any
     effort, afford ample resources for reimbursing whatever may have
     been borrowed during the war."

He then enumerates the several branches of revenue which might be selected to provide for the
interest of war loans and to cover deficiencies. First, a considerable increase of the duties
on importations; and here he says:--

     "Without resorting to the example of other nations, experience has
     proven that this source of revenue is in the United States the most
     productive, the easiest to collect, and the least burthensome to
     the great mass of the people. 2d. Indirect taxes, however
     ineligible, will doubtless be cheerfully paid as war taxes, if
     necessary. 3d. Direct taxes are liable to a particular objection
     arising from unavoidable inequality produced by the general rule
     of the Constitution. Whatever differences may exist between the
     relative wealth and consequent ability of paying of the several
     States, still the tax must necessarily be raised in proportion to
     their relative population."

The Orders in Council of November 11, 1807, avowedly adopted to compel all nations to give
up their maritime trade or accept it through Great Britain, reached Washington on December
18, 1807, and were immediately replied to by the United States by an embargo act on December
22. The history of the political effect of this measure is beyond the limits of this economic
study, and will be touched upon in a later chapter, but the result of its application upon
the Treasury falls within this analysis of the methods of Mr. Gallatin's administration.

On December 18 Gallatin wrote Jefferson that "in every point of view, privations, sufferings,
revenue, effect on the enemy, politics at home, etc.," he preferred "war to a permanent embargo;"
nevertheless he was called upon to draft the bill. The correctness of Mr. Gallatin's prevision
was soon apparent. In his report of December 10, 1808, he reviewed the general effect of the
measure. "The embargo has brought into and kept in the United States almost all the floating
property of the nation. And whilst the depreciated value of domestic product increases the
difficulty of raising a considerable revenue by internal taxes, at no former time has there
been so much specie, so much redundant unemployed capital in the country." Again stating his
opinion that loans should be principally relied on in case of war, he closed with the following
words: "The high price of public stocks (and indeed of all species of stocks), the reduction
of the public debt, the unimpaired credit of the general government, and the large amount of
existing bank stock in the United States [estimated by him at forty millions of dollars], leave
no doubt of the practicability of obtaining the necessary loans on reasonable terms."

The receipts into the Treasury during the year ending September, 1808, the last of Jefferson's
administration, were            $17,952,419.90

The disbursements during the same period
were                                         12,635,275.46
                                             -------------
Excess of receipts                           $5,317,144.44

And the specie in Treasury, October 1, 1808                                        $13,846,717.82

From January 1, 1791, to January 1, 1808, the debt had fallen from $75,169,974 to $57,023,192;
during the first ten years it had increased nearly seven millions of dollars, in the last eight
it had been diminished more than twenty millions and Louisiana had been purchased. Thus closed
the second term of Gallatin's service. Happen what might, the credit of the country could not
be in a better situation to meet the exigencies of a war. A letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr.
Gallatin after the close of this administration, and Gallatin's reply, show the entire accord
between them upon the one cardinal point of financial policy. To which Gallatin replied from
Washington, on November 10:--

     "The reduction of the public debt was certainly the principal
     object in bringing me into office, and our success in that respect
     has been due both to the joint and continued efforts of the several
     branches of government and to the prosperous situation of the
     country. I am sensible that the work cannot progress under adverse
     circumstances. If the United States shall be forced into a state of
     actual war, all the resources of the country must be called forth
     to make it efficient and new loans will undoubtedly be wanted. But
     whilst peace is preserved, the revenue will, at all events, be
     sufficient to pay the interest and to defray necessary expenses. I
     do not ask that in the present situation of our foreign relations
     the debt be reduced, but only that it shall not be increased so
     long as we are not at war."

In his eight years of service under Jefferson, Gallatin had not found the Treasury Department
a bed of roses. Under Madison there was an undue proportion of thorns.

It has been shown that the entire reliance of Gallatin for the expenses of government was on
customs, tonnage dues, and land sales. The effect of the Embargo Act was soon felt in the falling
off of importations, and consequently in the revenue from this source. Mr. Gallatin felt the
strain in the spring of 1809; and on March 18, soon after Mr. Madison's inauguration, he gave
notice to the commissioners of the sinking fund of a probable deficiency. In his annual report
to Congress, December, 1809, he announced the expenses of government, exclusive of the payments
on account of the principal of the debt, to have exceeded the actual receipts into the Treasury
by a sum of near $1,300,000. For this deficiency, and the sum required for the sinking fund,
Gallatin was authorized in May to borrow from the Bank of the United States $3,750,000 at six
per cent., reimbursable on December 31, 1811. Of this sum only $2,750,000 was taken, the expenses
having proved less than Mr. Gallatin had anticipated.

Madison called Congress together on November 1, 1811. The political tension was strong, and
he was anxious to throw the responsibility of peace or war upon Congress. On November 22, 1811,
Mr. Gallatin made his report on the finances and the public debt. It was, as usual, explicit
and in no manner despondent. The actual receipts arising from revenue alone exceeded the current
expenses, including the interest paid on the debt, by a sum of more than five and one half
millions of dollars. The public debt on January 1, 1812, was $45,154,463. Since Gallatin took
charge of the department, the United States had in ten years and nine months paid in full the
purchase money of Louisiana, and increased its revenue nearly two millions of dollars. For
eight years eight millions of dollars had been annually paid on account of the principal and
interest of the debt. And as though intending to leave as the legacy of his service a lesson
of financial policy, he said:--

     "The redemption of principal has been effected without the aid of
     any internal taxes, either direct or indirect, without any addition
     during the last seven years to the rate of duties on importations,
     which on the contrary have been impaired by the repeal of the duty
     on salt, and notwithstanding the great diminution of commerce
     during the last four years. It therefore proves decisively the
     ability of the United States with their ordinary revenue to
     discharge, in ten years of peace, a debt of forty-two millions of
     dollars, a fact which considerably lessens the weight of the most
     formidable objection to which that revenue, depending almost solely
     on commerce, appears to be liable. In time of peace it is almost
     sufficient to defray the expenses of a war; in time of war it is
     hardly competent to support the expenses of a peace establishment.
     Sinking at once, under adverse circumstances, from fifteen to six
     or eight millions of dollars, it is only by a persevering
     application of the surplus which it affords us in years of
     prosperity, to the discharge of the debt, that a total change in
     the system of taxation or a perpetual accumulation of debt can be
     avoided. But if a similar application of such surplus be hereafter
     strictly adhered to, forty millions of debt, contracted during five
     or six years of war, may always, without any extraordinary
     exertions, be reimbursed in ten years of peace. This view of the
     subject at the present crisis appears necessary for the purpose of
     distinctly pointing out one of the principal resources within reach
     of the United States.

From this plain declaration, it was evident that the sum necessary to pay interest on new loans,
and provide for their redemption by the operation of the sinking fund, could not be obtained
from the ordinary sources of revenue, and that resort must be had to extraordinary imposts
or direct taxation. On January 10, 1812, in response to an inquiry of the Ways and Means Committee
as to an increase of revenue in the event of a war, Gallatin submitted a project for war loans
of ten millions a year, irredeemable for ten years. He pointed out that the government had
never since its organization obtained considerable loans at six per cent. per annum, except
from the Bank of the United States, and these, on a capital of seven millions, never amounted
to seven millions in the whole. As the amount of prospective loans would naturally raise the
amount of interest, it seemed prudent not to limit the rate of interest by law; ineligible
as it seemed to leave that rate discretionary with the executive, it was preferable to leaving
the public service unprovided for. For the same reason the loans should be made irredeemable
for a term not less than ten years.

He then repeated a former suggestion, that "treasury notes," bearing interest, might be issued,
which would to that extent diminish the amount to be directly borrowed and also provide a part
of the circulating medium, passing as bank notes; but their issue must be strictly limited
to that amount at which they would circulate without depreciation. So long as the public credit
is preserved and a sufficient revenue provided, he entertained no doubts of the possibility
of procuring on loan the sums necessary to defray the extraordinary expenses of a war. He warned
the committee, and through it Congress, that "no artificial provisions, no appropriations or
investments of particular funds in certain persons, no nominal sinking fund, however constructed,
will ever reduce a public debt unless the net annual revenue shall exceed the aggregate of
the annual expenses, including the interest of the debt." He then submitted the following estimates:--

     "The current or peace expenses have been estimated at nine millions
     of dollars. Supposing the debt contracted during the war not to
     exceed fifty millions and its annual interest to amount to three
     millions, the aggregate of the peace expenditure would be no more
     than twelve millions. And as the peace revenue of the United States
     may at the existing rate of duties be fairly estimated at fifteen
     millions, there would remain from the first outset a surplus of
     three millions applicable to the redemption of the debt. So far,
     therefore, as can be now foreseen, there is the strongest reason to
     believe that the debt thus contracted will be discharged with
     facility and as speedily as the terms of the loans will permit. Nor
     does any other plan in that respect appear necessary than to extend
     the application of the annual appropriation of eight millions (and
     which is amply sufficient for that purpose) to the payment of
     interest and reimbursement of the principal of the new debt.... If
     the national revenue exceeds the national expenditure, a simple
     appropriation for the payment of the principal of the debt and
     coextensive with the object is sufficient and will infallibly
     extinguish the debt. If the expense exceeds the revenue, the
     appropriation of any specific sum and the investment of the
     interest extinguished or of any other fund, will prove altogether
     nugatory; and the national debt will, notwithstanding that
     apparatus, be annually increased by an amount equal to the deficit
     in the revenue.... What appears to be of vital importance is that
     the crisis should at once be met by the adoption of efficient
     measures, which will with certainty provide means commensurate with
     the expense, and, by preserving unimpaired instead of abusing that
     public credit on which the public resources so eminently depend,
     will enable the United States to persevere in the contest until an
     honorable peace shall have been obtained."

On March 14 Congress authorized a public loan of eleven millions of dollars, leaving it optional
with the banks who subscribed to take stock, or to loan the money on special contract. The
books were opened May 1 and 2, and in the two days $6,118,900 were subscribed: $4,190,000 by
banks and $1,928,000 by individuals. The rate was six per cent. Mr. Gallatin reported this
result, and proposed the issue of treasury notes for such amount as was desired within the
limit of the loan to bear interest at five and two fifths per cent. a year, equal to a cent
and a half per day on a hundred dollars' note; 2d, to be payable one year after date of issue;
3d, to be in the meanwhile receivable in payment of all duties, taxes, or debts due to the
United States. The first of these ingenious qualifications was adopted by Mr. Chase in his
issue of the seven-thirties.

On June 18 war was declared. On the 28th Mr. Gallatin submitted his estimate of receipts and
expenditures for the year.

EXPENDITURES IN ROUND NUMBERS.

Civil and miscellaneous                   $1,560,000
Military establishment, and Indian dept   12,800,000
Naval establishment                        3,940,000
Public debt                                8,000,000
                                          ----------
                                         $26,300,000
                                          ==========

FUNDS PROVIDED.

Balance in Treasury, January 1            $2,000,000
Receipts from duties and sales of lands
  as by estimate of November 22, 1811      8,200,000
Loan authorized by law                    11,000,000
Treasury notes as authorized by House
  of Representatives                       5,000,000
                                          ----------
                                         $26,200,000

The issue of treasury notes was a novel experiment in the United States; but they were favorably
received, and Mr. Gallatin calculated that the full amount authorized by law, $5,000,000, could
be put in circulation during the year. The result of a loan seemed more doubtful. The old six
per cents. and deferred stock had already fallen two or three per cent. below par. Mr. Gallatin
again recommended the conversion of these securities into a new six per cent. stock, which
would facilitate the new loan, and to prevent the necessity of applying, the same years, the
large sums required in reimbursement of and purchase of the public debt.

On December 1 Mr. Gallatin made his last annual statement.

Treasury Report for Fiscal Year ending September 30, 1812.

RECEIPTS.

Customs, sales of lands, etc.            $10,934,946.20
On account of loan of eleven millions,
  act 14 March, 1812                       5,847,212.50
                                         --------------
                                         $16,782,158.70
Balance in Treasury October 1, 1811        3,947,818.36
                                         --------------
                                         $20,729,977.06
                                         ==============

DISBURSEMENTS.

Civil Department, foreign intercourse     $1,823,069.35
Army, militia, forts, etc.  $7,770,300.00
Navy Department              3,107,501.54
Indian Department              230,975.00
                            ------------- 11,108,776.54
Interest on debt            $2,498,013.19
On account of principal      2,938,465.99
                            -------------  5,436,479.18
                                         --------------
                                         $18,368,325.07
Leaving in Treasury 30 Sept., 1812         2,361,652.69
                                         --------------
                                         $20,729,977.76

The sums obtained or secured on loans during the year amounted to $13,100,209, and the secretary
had the satisfaction to state "that notwithstanding the addition thus made to the public debt,
and although a considerable portion has been remitted from England and brought to market in
America, the public stocks (which had at first experienced a slight depression) have been for
the last three months, and continue to be, at par." His last report to the commissioners of
the sinking fund of February 5, 1813, stated the usual application of $8,719,773 to the principal
and interest of the debt.

In his report of December 1, 1812, Mr. Gallatin announced that a loan of twenty-one millions
was needed for the service of 1813. Congress authorized a loan of $16,000,000, having six years
to run, and an additional issue of $5,000,000 of treasury notes. Congress adjourned on March
4. Their procrastination and the pressing demands of the War Department nearly beggared the
Treasury before the loans could be negotiated and covered into it.

On April 17 Mr. Gallatin wrote to the secretaries of the army and of the navy, and sent a copy
of his letters to Mr. Madison with information that the loan had been filled, and the probable
receipts of the Treasury from ordinary sources for the year ascertained. These he estimated
at $9,300,000. Deducting the annual appropriation for interest on the debt, the sum expended
to March 31, and the amount needed for the civil service, there remained for the War and Navy
Departments together the sum of $18,720,000.

The loan of $16,000,000 was obtained in the following places:--

States east of New York               $486,700
State of New York                    5,720,000
Philadelphia, Pa.                    6,858,400
Baltimore and District of Columbia   2,393,300
State of Virginia                      187,000
Charleston, S. C.                      354,000
                                   -----------
                                   $16,000,000

The history of this subscription is not without interest. The extremely small subscriptions
in New England and in the Southern States can hardly be explained on any other theory than
that of a belief in the collapse of the finances of the United States and a dissolution of
the Union, for which the New England States had certainly been prepared by their governing
minds.[14]

Books were opened on March 12 and 13, 1813, at Portsmouth, Salem, Boston, Providence, New York,
Albany, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Richmond, and Charleston. In the two days the
subscriptions only reached the sum of $3,956,400. They were again opened on the 25th of March
at New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington. The New England and Southern States seem
to have been disregarded because of their indifference in the first instance. The books remained
open from March 25 to 31, during which time there were received $1,881,800, a total of $5,838,200.

The pressure fell on the Middle States. In these, fortunately for the government, there were
three great capitalists whose faith in the future prosperity of the United States was unimpaired.
All were foreigners: David Parish and Stephen Girard in Philadelphia and John Jacob Astor in
New York. These now came forward, no doubt at the instance of Mr. Gallatin, who was a personal
friend of each. Parish and Girard offered on April 5 to take eight millions of the loan at
the rate of eighty-eight dollars for a certificate of one hundred dollars bearing interest
at six per cent., redeemable before December 31, 1825, they to receive one quarter of one per
cent. commission on the amount accepted, and in case of a further loan for the service of the
year 1813, to be placed on an equal footing with its takers. John Jacob Astor on the same day
and at the same place proposed to take for himself and his friends the sum of two million and
fifty-six thousand dollars of the loan on the same conditions. These offers were accepted and
the loan was complete. An offer on behalf of the State of Pennsylvania to take one million
of the loan was received too late. Altogether the offers amounted to about eighteen millions,
or two millions more than the sum demanded. Mr. Gallatin, clinging to his old plan, endeavored
to negotiate this loan at par, by offering a premium of a thirteen years' annuity of one per
cent., but found it impracticable. Indeed, the system of annuity, general in England, has never
found favor as an investment in the United States.

This was Mr. Gallatin's last financial transaction. A few weeks later, at his own request,
he severed his actual connection with the Treasury Department and was on his way to St. Petersburg
to secure the proffered mediation of the emperor of Russia between the United States and Great
Britain.

Thus ended Mr. Gallatin's administration of the national finances. The hour for saving had
passed. The imperious necessities of war take no heed of economic principles. The work which
the secretary had done became as the rope of sand. It is not surprising that Gallatin wearied
of his post; that he watched with vain regret and unavailing sighs the unavoidable increase
of the national debt, and that he sought relief in other services where success was not so
evanescent as in the Treasury Department. Before the close of Madison's administration, February
12, 1816, the public debt had run up to over one hundred and twenty-three millions,[15] and
a sum equal to the entire amount of Mr. Gallatin's savings in two terms had been expended in
one. But his work had not been in vain. The war was the crucial test of the soundness of his
financial policy. The maxims which he announced, that debt can only be reduced by a surplus
of revenue over expenditure, and the accompaniment of every loan by an appropriation for its
extinguishment, became the fundamental principle of American finance. Mr. Gallatin was uniformly
supported in it by Congress and public opinion. It was faithfully adhered to by his distinguished
successors, Dallas and Crawford, and the impulse thus given continued through later administrations,
until, in 1837, twenty years after the peace, the entire debt had been extinguished. All this
without any other variation from Mr. Gallatin's original plan than an increase of the annual
appropriation, to the sinking fund for its reimbursement, from eight to ten millions.[16]

The only charge which has ever been made against Gallatin's administration was, that he reduced
the debt at the expense of the defenses and security of the country; but, to quote the words
of one of his biographers:[17] "Mr. Gallatin had the sagacity to know that it [the redemption
of the debt] would make but little difference in the degree of preparation of national defense
and means of contest, for which it is impossible ever to obtain a considerable appropriation
before the near approach of the danger that may render them necessary. He knew that the money
thus well and wisely devoted to the payment of the debt was only rescued from a thousand purposes
of extravagance and mal-application to which all our legislative bodies are so prone whenever
they have control of surplus funds." In our own day the irresistible temptations of a full
treasury need no labored demonstration. Friend and foe drop political differences over the
abundant fleshpot. The very thought of catering to such appetites disgusted Gallatin. To Jefferson
he frankly said, in 1809, that while he did not pretend to step out of his own sphere and to
control the internal management of other departments, yet he could not "consent to act the
part of a mere financier, to become a contriver of taxes, a dealer of loans, a seeker of resources
for the purpose of supporting useless baubles, of increasing the number of idle and dissipated
members of the community, of fattening contractors, pursers, and agents, and of introducing
in all its ramifications that system of patronage, corruption, and rottenness which you justly
execrate."

RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES DURING MADISON'S ADMINISTRATION, FROM
                 ELLIOTT'S SYNOPTICAL EXHIBITS.

                          RECEIPTS.

------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
Four Years  |  Customs.      |   Internal    |  Direct Taxes. |
Ending      |                |   Revenue.    |                |
Dec. 31.    |                |               |                |
------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
1812        | $38,151,330.15 |    $18,674.03 |    $28,491.87  |
1816        |  62,813,212.43 | 11,470,507.24 |  8,639,611.38  |
            |----------------+---------------+----------------+
Madison     | 100,964,542.58 | 11,489,181.27 |  8,668,103.25  |
------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
    Postage.    |  Public Lands. |   Loans and       |  Dividends     |
                |                |   Treasury Notes. |  Sales of      |
                |                |                   | Bank Stock.    |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
   $85,077.40   | $2,889,466.46  |   $15,606,201.30  |     -          |
   364,787.84   |  4,977,570.54  |    94,321,103.73  |     -          |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
   449,865.24   |  7,867,037.00  |   109,927,305.03  |     -          |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+

----------------+----------------
 Miscellaneous. |    Total.  |                |
Dec. 31.   |                 |               |                |
-----------+-----------------+---------------+----------------+
1812       | $2,887,197.98   |  $860,281.28  | $1,619,849.12  |
1816       |  3,768,342.61   | 1,042,633.42  |  5,015,100.92  |
           |-----------------+---------------+----------------+
Madison    | 6,655,540.59    | 1,902,914.70  |  6,634,950.04  |
-----------+-----------------+---------------+----------------+

----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
 Military Dept. |   Pensions.    |      Indian Dept. |   Naval Dept.  |
                |                |                   |                |
                |                |                   |                |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
 $19,480,722.54 |  $338,023.68   |       $944,848.84 | $10,006,934.54 |
  70,809,210.90 |   435,614.48   |      1,140,015.30 |  26,326,169.25 |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+
  90,289,933.44 |   773,638.16   |      2,084,864.14 |  36,333,103.79 |
----------------+----------------+-------------------+----------------+

----------------+----------------
  Public Debt.  |    Total.
                |
                |
----------------+----------------
 $26,920,285.12 |  $63,058,143.10
  56,508,652.66 |  165,045,739.54
----------------+----------------
  83,428,937.78 |  228,103,882.64
----------------+----------------

       *       *       *       *       *

Revenue

L'État c'est moi was the autocratic maxim of Louis Quatorze. An adherence to it cost the Bourbons
their throne. Burke was more philosophical when he said, "The revenue of the State is the State."
Its imposition, its collection, and its application involve all the principles and all the
powers of government, constitutional or extraordinary. It is the sole foundation of public
credit, the sole support of the body politic, its life-blood in peace, its nerve in war. The
"purse and the sword" are respectively the resource and defense of government and peoples,
and they are interdependent powers. With the discovery of the sources of revenue, and the establishment
of its currents, Mr. Gallatin, in the first eight years of his administration of the Treasury,
had nothing to do. He had only to maintain those systems which Hamilton had devised, and which,
wisely adapted to the growth of the country, proved amply adequate to the ordinary expenditures
of the government and to the gradual extinguishment of the debt. The entire revenue included
three distinct branches: imposts on importations and tonnage, internal revenue, sales of public
lands. The duties on imports of foreign merchandise were alone sufficient to meet the current
expenses of the various departments of administration on a peace establishment, and, increasing
with the growth of the country, would prove ample in future. The gross amount of imports in
the four years of Adams's administration, 1796-1800, was about three hundred and fourteen millions
of dollars, and the customs yielded about thirty millions.

Mr. Gallatin's first annual report, submitted to the House of Representatives in December,
1801, exhibited his financial scheme. He recapitulated the various sources of permanent revenue.
They were those of Hamilton's original tariff.

The revenues for the year ended September 30, 1801, were the basis of the estimates for future
years. These were

Duties on imports and tonnage   $10,126,213.92
Internal revenue                    854,000.00
Land sales                          400,000.00
                                --------------
                                $11,380,213.92

But the close of the war in Europe sensibly diminished the enormous carrying trade which fell
to the United States as neutrals, and, as a consequence, the revenue from that source; large
quantities of goods were brought into the United States and reëxported to foreign ports under
a system of debenture. The revenue on what Mr. Gallatin calls "this accidental commerce" was
$1,200,000. He therefore estimated the permanent revenues at

Customs duties                  $9,500,000
Land sales                         400,000
Postage                             50,000
Internal revenue                   650,000
                               -----------
                               $10,600,000

Or, without the internal revenue, say ten millions of permanent revenue, as a basis for the
permanent expenditures.

To bring the expenditures within this sum, however, a reduction in the army and navy establishments
was necessary. This Gallatin soon found to be too radical a measure for success, either in
the cabinet or Congress, however well it may have accorded with Jefferson's utopian views.
In the budget of 1802 the internal revenue, $650,000, was, therefore, a necessary item. The
expenditures proposed were

Annual appropriation for interest and
principal of debt                     $7,100,000
Civil list                  $780,000
Foreign intercourse          200,000
Military and Indian Dept   1,420,000
Naval                      1,100,000
                         -----------
                          $3,500,000    3,500,000
                                      -----------
                                      $10,600,000

In this budget the estimate for the military establishment was an increase over that of Wolcott
for 1801, which was $1,120,000. But the Republicans in the House were not content with this
arrangement. The internal revenues were utterly distasteful to them. They had been laid against
their protest and collected under military menace. They were of those Federal measures of which
they would have none. John Randolph, chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, reported,
March 2, 1802, against the entire system of internal duties, in the old words of the Pennsylvania
radicals, as vexatious, oppressive, and peculiarly obnoxious; as of the nature of an excise
which is hostile to the genius of a free people, and finally because of their tendency to multiply
offices and increase the patronage of the executive. The repeal was imperative upon the Republican
party. On April 6, 1802, the act was repealed and the surplus of the budget stripped from it,
without Mr. Gallatin's consent, certainly, but also without protest from him.

The prosperity of the country continued. The impost duties for the fiscal year ending September
30, 1802, rose to $12,280,000, the sales of the public lands to $326,000, and the postage to
$50,500, a total of $12,656,500, and left in the Treasury, September 30, 1802, the sum of $4,539,675.
This large increase in the Treasury did not in the least change Mr. Gallatin's general plan,
and his budget for 1803 was based on his original scale of a permanent revenue of $10,000,000,
to correspond with which the estimates of the preceding year were reduced. The fiscal year
closed September 30, 1803, with a balance in the Treasury of $5,860,000. This situation of
the finances was fortunate in view of secret negotiations which the President and Congress
were initiating for the purchase of Louisiana from France.

The secretaries of war and of the navy had promised to reduce their expenditures to a figure
approximate to Mr. Gallatin's estimates; but the breaking out of hostilities with Tripoli prevented
the proposed economy, and Mr. Gallatin was called upon to provide for an increased expenditure
with one certain source of revenue definitively closed. He therefore proposed an additional
tax of two and one half per cent. on all importations which paid an ad valorem duty. This additional
impost, laid by act of March 25, 1804, called the Mediterranean Fund, remained in force long
after the war closed and held its place on the books of the Treasury under that name.

The bulk of the cost of Louisiana was met by an issue of bonds; but Mr. Gallatin, true to his
principle, applied the moneys in the Treasury as far as they would go. The budget for 1805
was on a different scale. The increase in the debt demanded a proportionate increase in the
revenue to meet the additional sum required for interest and gradual annual reimbursement.
The Mediterranean Fund was sufficient to meet the increased amounts required for the navy.
In this manner he held up the Navy Department to a strict accountability and made it responsible
to Congress and not to the cabinet for its administration, and he thus, from his own point
of view, relieved the Treasury Department from any responsibility for extraordinary expenditure.

Mr. Gallatin closed his four years of administration with flying colors. The successful management
of the finances was an important factor in the election of 1804, which returned Mr. Jefferson
to the presidential chair and insured to the country the inestimable advantages of Mr. Gallatin's
practical mind. Order reigned in his department at least, and order subordinate to the strictest
requirements of law. In the four years, 1801-1804, Jefferson's first term, the imports aggregated
$337,363,510 and the customs yielded $45,000,000.

The annual report, made December 9, 1805, announced an increasing revenue, amounting in all
to thirteen and one half millions of dollars, chiefly from customs. Still Mr. Gallatin made
but small addition to his estimates for the coming year. The permanent revenue he raised to
twelve and one half millions and increased the appropriation for the payment of the debt and
interest to eight millions. Nothing occurred during the next year to check the growth of the
country; the revenue continued on a rising scale, and reached close upon fifteen millions of
dollars.

So far Mr. Gallatin had met but inconsiderable obstacles in his course, and these he used to
his advantage to impress economy upon the Army and Navy Departments, and enforce his principle
of minute appropriations for their government. All that he had already accomplished in the
establishment of a sound financial system and the support of the credit of the United States
was but the basis of a broader structure of national economy. His extensive scheme of internal
improvements was hardly matured when the thunder broke in the clear sky.

The acquisition of Louisiana, the large carrying trade which had passed under the American
flag, and the rapid prosperity of the financial and industrial condition of the country aroused
the jealousy of Great Britain, and determined her to check the further progress of the United
States by war, if need be. The capture of the American frigate Chesapeake by the man-of-war
Leopard, June 22, 1807, was only the first in a series of outrages which rendered the final
collision, though long delayed, inevitable. Mr. Gallatin at once recognized that the Treasury
could no longer be conducted on a peace basis. "Money," he wrote to Joseph H. Nicholson, "we
will want to carry on the war; our revenue will be cut up; new and internal taxes will be slow
and not sufficiently productive; we must necessarily borrow. This is not pleasing to me, but
it must be done." Congress was called together for October 26, 1807, and on November 5, Mr.
Gallatin sent in his annual report. There was still hope that Great Britain would make amends
for the outrage, and Congress was certainly peaceably disposed. In the condition of the Treasury
there was no reason as yet for recommending extraordinary measures. The revenues for the year
passed the sum of seventeen millions; the balance in the Treasury reached eight and one half
millions; the surplus on a peace footing was twelve millions. Mr. Gallatin recommended that
the duties should be doubled in case war were threatened. He said, "Should the revenue fall
below seven millions of dollars, not only the duty on salt and the Mediterranean duties could
be immediately revived, but the duties on importation generally be considerably increased,
perhaps double, with less inconvenience than would arise from any other mode of taxation."
But still the war-cloud did not break. Mr. Canning contented himself with war in disguise,
and by his Order in Council of November 11, 1807, shut the ports of Europe to American trade,
and wiped away the advantages of the United States as a neutral power. The United States answered
with the act of embargo on December 22, 1807, completing, as far as it was possible for legislation
to effect it, the blockade of the Treasury Department as regarded revenues from foreign imports.
The immediate effect, however, of these acts in Great Britain and America was an enormous temporary
increase of importations in the interim from the time of the passage of the act until the date
when it took effect. To aid merchants in this peculiar condition of affairs an act was passed
by Congress, on March 10, 1808, extending the terms of credit on revenue bonds.

Mr. Gallatin's report of December 16, 1808, closed the record of his eight years of management
of the Department. In the second term of Jefferson's administration, 1805-1808, the gross amount
of imports had risen to $443,990,000, and the customs collected to nearly $60,000,000. In the
entire eight years, 1800-1808, the gross amount of importations was $781,000,000, and the customs
yielded $105,000,000. The entire expenses of the government in the same period, including $65,000,000
of debt, had been liquidated from customs alone.

The specie in the Treasury on September 20, 1808, reached nearly $14,000,000. Mr. Jefferson
knew of the amount in the Treasury when he wrote his last message, November 8, 1808, and he
could not have been ignorant of Mr. Gallatin's warning of the previous year that a continuance
of the embargo restriction would reduce the revenue below the point of annual expenditures
and require an additional impost; yet he had the ignorance or the presumption to say in his
message, "Shall it (the surplus revenue) lie unproductive in the public vaults? In these words
Jefferson surrendered the vital principle of the Republican party. In his satisfaction at the
only triumph of his administration, the management of the finances and the purchase of a province
without a ripple on the even surface of national finance, he gave up the very basis of the
Republican theory, the reduction of the government to its possible minimum, and actually proposed
a system of administration coextensive with the national domain, an increase of the functions
of government, and consequently of executive power.

The annual report of the Treasury, presented December 16, 1808, showed no diminution of resources.
The total receipts for the fiscal year were nearly eighteen millions. The total receipts for--

Customs reached                    $26,126,648
On which debentures were allowed
  on exportations                   10,059,457
                                   -----------
Actual receipts from customs       $16,067,191

But this source of revenue was now definitively closed by the embargo, while the expenditures
of the government were increased. Mr. Gallatin met the situation frankly and notified Congress
of the resources of the Treasury.

             RESOURCES FOR 1809

Cash in Treasury     $13,846,717.52
Back customs, net      2,154,000.00
                     --------------
Total resources      $16,000,717.52

The receipts from importations and land sales would be offset by deductions for bad debts and
extensions of credit to importers. The expenditures were set at $13,000,000, which would leave
in the Treasury for extraordinary expenditure $3,000,717. The disbursements had been far beyond
the estimates; those for the military and naval establishments reaching together six millions.

It is not to be supposed that Mr. Gallatin saw this depletion of the Treasury, this rapid dissipation
of the specie,--always desirable and never more so than in periods of trouble,--without disappointment
and regret. His report to Congress was as outspoken politically as it was financially, and
from a foreign-born citizen to an American Congress must have carried its sting. "Either America,"
he wrote, "must accept the position of commerce allotted to her by the British edicts, and
abandon all that is forbidden,--and it is not material whether this is done by legal provisions
limiting the commerce of the United States to the permitted places, or by acquiescing in the
capture of vessels stepping beyond the prescribed bounds. Or the nation must oppose force to
the execution of the orders of England; and this, however done, and by whatever name called,
will be war." He recalled to them his advice of the preceding years in a vein of tempered bitterness:
"Had the duties been doubled on January 1, 1808, as was then suggested, in case of war the
receipts into the Treasury during that and the ensuing year would have been increased nine
or ten millions of dollars." He then proposed to continue the Mediterranean Fund and to double
all existing duties on importations after January 1, 1809. He informed them that no internal
taxes, either direct or indirect, were contemplated by him even in the case of hostilities
against the two belligerent powers; France having responded to the Orders in Council by Napoleon's
Milan decree, December 17, 1807, which was quite as offensive to the United States as that
of Canning. With true statesmanship Mr. Gallatin nerved the country to extraordinary exertion
by reminding it that the geographical situation of the United States and their history since
the Revolution removed every apprehension of frequent wars.

During the year 1809 the country drifted along apparently without rudder or compass, helmsman
or course, and the treasury locker was being rapidly reduced to remainder biscuit. Mr. Madison
was inaugurated in March. In his first message, May 23, 1809, he exposed the financial situation
with an indecision which was as marked a trait of his character as optimism was of that of
Jefferson. Beyond this Madison did not venture; Gallatin was left alone.

The Treasury report of December 8, 1809, announced the beginning of short rations. If the military
and naval establishments were to be continued at the figures of 1809, when six millions were
expended, there would result a deficiency of $3,000,000, and a loan of $4,000,000 would be
necessary. Otherwise the Mediterranean Fund would suffice. The cash in the Treasury had fallen
from nearly fourteen millions on June 2, 1809, to less than six millions on September 3, following.
In this report Gallatin expressed his opinion, that the system of restriction established by
the embargo and partly relaxed must be entirely reinstated or wholly abandoned. On May 1, 1810,
an act of strict prohibition of importations from Great Britain and her dependencies was passed.

While from the incompetency of the administration the country was fast approaching the real
crisis of open war, the Republicans in Congress were deliberately destroying and undermining
the basis of national credit, by which alone it could be carried on. In February the United
States Bank, by which, and its branches, the customs were collected throughout the country,
was destroyed by the refusal of Congress to renew its charter. Mr. Gallatin in his combinations
never contemplated such a contingency as the total destruction of the fiscal agency on which
the government had relied for twenty years. Unwilling to struggle longer against the mean personalities
and factious opposition of his own party in Congress, he tendered his resignation to Mr. Madison.
But the Republican party was a party of opposition, not of government. With the exception of
Mr. Gallatin, no competent administrative head had as yet appeared. There was no one in the
party or out of it to take his place. Mr. Madison knew it. Mr. Gallatin felt it, and remained.
Congress met in November. On the 25th Mr. Gallatin sent in his annual report; the receipts
reached thirteen and a half million dollars.

The budget for 1812 left a deficiency to be provided for of $1,200,000. This was a small matter.
The revenue Mr. Gallatin proposed to increase, on the plan before recommended, by additions
of fifty per cent, to the imposts on foreign commerce. This he preferred to any internal tax.

At the close of the year the country, chafed beyond endurance by the indignities put upon it
and the sufferings it encountered without compensation to its pride, was eager for war. Congress
was no way loath to try the dangerous path out of its labyrinth of blunders. The near contingency
imposed the necessity of an immediate examination of the sources of revenue. In January, 1812,
Mr. Gallatin was requested by the chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means to give his opinion
as to the probable amount of receipts from duties on tonnage and merchandise in the event of
war. This, in view of the vigorous restrictions laid by France under her continental system
of exclusion, Mr. Gallatin estimated under existing rules as not to exceed $2,500,000. He then
stated, without hesitation, that it was practicable and advisable to double the rate of duties,
and to renew the old duty on salt. The sum acquired, with this addition, he anticipated, would
amount to $5,400,000.

On the basis of annual loans of ten millions of dollars during the continuance of the war (the
sum assumed by the committee), the deficiency for 1814 would amount, by Mr. Gallatin's estimate,
to $4,200,000. To produce a net revenue equal to this deficiency he stated that the gross sum
of taxes to be laid must be five millions of dollars. He then reverted to his report of December
10, 1808, in which he had stated that "no internal taxes, either direct or indirect, were contemplated,
even in the case of hostilities carried on against the two great belligerent powers." The balance
in the Treasury was then nearly fourteen millions of dollars, but in view of the daily decrease
of the revenue he had recommended "that all the existing duties be doubled on importations
subsequent to the first day of January, 1809." As the revenues of 1809, 1810, and 1811 had
yielded $26,000,000, the sum on hand, with the increase thus recommended, would have reached
$20,000,000, a sum greater than the net amount of the proposed internal taxes in four years.

At that time no symptoms had appeared from which the absolute dissolution of the Bank of the
United States without any substitute could have been anticipated. If its charters had been
renewed, on the conditions suggested by Mr. Gallatin, the necessity for internal taxes would
have been avoided. The resources of the country, properly applied, however, were amply sufficient
to meet the emergency; but Mr. Gallatin distinctly threw upon Congress, and by implication
upon the Republican majority, the responsibility for the state of the Treasury, and the imperative
necessity for a form of taxation which it detested as oppressive, and which it was a party
shibboleth to declare in and out of season, to be unconstitutional. The choice of the administration
was between the Bank which Jefferson detested and Gallatin favored, and the internal tax which
Mr. Gallatin considered as the most repulsive in its operation of any form of revenue.

But necessity knows no law, and the prime mover, if not the original author, of the opposition
to Hamilton's system was driven to propose the renewal of the measures, opposition to which
had brought the Republican party into power, and had placed himself at the head of the Treasury.
He now proposed to raise the five millions deficiency by internal taxation--$3,000,000 by direct
tax and $2,000,000 by indirect tax. Thus he held the bitter cup to the lips of the Republican
Congress, which, however, was not yet to drain its full measure. War was declared June 18,
1812. On July 1, 1812, an act was passed imposing an additional duty of one hundred per cent.
on all importations, an additional ten per cent. on goods brought in foreign vessels, and also
a duty of $1.50 per ton on all foreign vessels. The duty was to remain until the expiration
of one year after peace should be made with Great Britain. On December 5, 1812, Mr. Gallatin
sent in his last report. The balance in the treasury was $3,947,818. His estimate for the service
of the year 1813 was a war budget. Resources, $12,000,000; expenditures, $31,926,000; promising
a deficiency of $19,925,000. For this and other contingencies Mr. Gallatin asked for a loan
of twenty millions. The authority was granted, but the recommendations of direct and indirect
taxes were disregarded. Here Mr. Gallatin's direct connection with the customs system closed.

The value of foreign importations during Madison's first term was $275,230,000, and the customs
derived from them thirty-eight millions of dollars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Congress adjourned March 4, 1813, but was called together again in May, when the subject of
internal taxes was again forced upon them. The internal revenue was a part of Hamilton's general
scheme. His original bill was passed, and, after numerous amendments suggested by trial, its
grievances were tempered and the friction removed. In Adams's term it yielded nearly three
millions of dollars. In Jefferson's first term, before the rise in customs revenue allowed
of its abandonment, Mr. Gallatin drew from this source nearly two millions of dollars, enough
to pay the interest and provide for the extinguishment of a six per cent. loan of thirty millions;
a war budget in itself. But it had been so entirely set aside that in Jefferson's second term,
1808-1812, it had fallen to a little over sixty-three thousand; in Madison's first term, to
a little under nineteen thousand dollars. Was it to this Mr. Dallas referred in that passage
of his report, made in 1815, on the financial operations of the war, in which he expresses
his regret "that there existed no system by which the internal resources of the country could
be brought at once into action, when the resources of its external commerce became incompetent
to answer the exigencies of the time? The existence of such a system would probably have invigorated
the early movements of the war, might have preserved the public credit unimpaired, and would
have rendered the pecuniary contributions of the people more equal, as well as more effective."
"It certainly," to use the words of this Mr. Gallatin's oldest and best political friend, "furnishes
a lesson of practical policy." Disagreeable as the necessity was, it could not be avoided,
and Mr. Gallatin met it manfully. Nay more, he seems to have had a grim satisfaction in proposing
the measure to the Congress which had thwarted him in his plans. In accordance with his suggestions,
Congress, in the extra session of May, 1813, laid a direct tax of $3,000,000 upon the States,
and specific duties upon refined sugar, carriages, licenses to distillers of spirituous liquors,
sales at auction, licenses to retailers of wines, and upon notes of banks and bankers. These
duties, in the beginning temporary, were calculated to yield $500,000, and with the direct
tax to give a sum of $3,500,000. But the increasing expenditures again requiring additional
sums of revenue, the duties were made permanent and additional taxes were laid; the entire
revenue for 1815 being raised so as to yield $12,400,000. In the second term of Mr. Madison
the internal revenue brought in nearly eleven and a half millions. The Federalists, who as
a party were opposed to the war, enjoyed the situation; Mr. Gallatin was compelled to impose
the internal revenue tax which he detested, and Mr. Dallas was called upon to enforce its application.

       *       *       *       *       *

The only remaining source of revenue was the sale of public lands. This also was a part of
Hamilton's original scheme. The public lands of the United States were acquired in three different
ways, namely, 1, by cessions from the States of such lands as they claimed, or were entitled
to by their original grants or charters from the crown, while colonies; 2, by purchase from
Indian tribes; 3, by treaties with foreign nations,--those of 1783 and 1794 with Great Britain,
of 1795 with Spain, and of 1803 with France. The need of bringing this vast territory under
the control of the government and disposing of it for settlement was early apparent. In July,
1791, Hamilton sent in to the House a report on "A uniform system for the disposition of the
lands, the property of the United States." In March preceding, grants of the United States
had confirmed to the actual settlers in the Illinois country the possession of their farms.
But what with the Indian wars and the rebellion within the United States, no action was taken
by Congress to carry the recommendations of the secretary into effect, until Mr. Gallatin,
whose residence on the frontier gave him direct interest in the subject, brought up the matter
at the very first session he attended. In 1796 a bill was passed authorizing and regulating
the sale of lands northwest of the Ohio and above the mouth of the Kentucky River, and a surveyor-general
was appointed with directions to lay out these lands in townships. The sales under Adams's
administrations were trifling, the total amount received from this source before the year 1800
being slightly over one hundred thousand dollars. In May, 1800, sales of the same lands were
authorized at public vendue at not less than two dollars per acre; four land offices were established
in the territory; surveyors were appointed, and a register of the land office was made a permanent
official. In March, 1803, an act was passed to regulate the sale of the United States lands
south of the Tennessee River, two land offices were established and public sale provided for
at the same price set in the act of 1800. In March, 1804, the Indiana lands lying north of
the Ohio and east of the Mississippi were brought within similar regulations, and an act was
passed concerning the country acquired under Spanish and British grants. In the same month
Louisiana was erected into two territories. The sums received from the sales during the first
term of Jefferson's administration amounted to little more than one million of dollars. In
January, 1805, the territory of Indiana was divided into two separate governments; that one
which was set off received the name of Michigan, and in 1808, its territory was brought under
the regulations of the land office.

The sums received from the sales in the second term of Jefferson's administration reached nearly
two and one half millions of dollars, and in Madison's first term, nearly three millions of
dollars. From first to last Mr. Gallatin never lost sight of the subject, though occasion did
not serve for more than organization of the system which, in the four years ending 1836, yielded
nearly fifty million dollars, and paid more than one third of the entire expenses of the government.
To John W. Eppes[18] Mr. Gallatin wrote in the crisis of 1813, "The public lands constitute
the only great national resource exclusive of loans and taxes. They have already been mentioned
as a fund for the ultimate extinguishment of the public debt." The land offices were then in
full operation.

In 1810 Mr. Gallatin prepared an "Introduction to the collection of laws, treaties, and other
documents respecting the public lands," which was published pursuant to an act of Congress
passed in April of that year.

Free Trade

While Mr. Gallatin differed from his early Republican associates in many of their theories
of administration, he was a firm believer in the best of their principles, namely, the wisdom
of giving free scope to the development of national resources with the least possible interference
on the part of government. One of his purposes in his persistent desire for economy in expenditure
was to reduce the tariff upon foreign importations to the lowest practicable limit. He was
the earliest public advocate in America of the principles of free trade, and an experience
of sixty years confirmed him in his convictions.

The extinguishment of the debt rendered a great reduction in the revenue possible. On the other
hand, it brought the friends of a low tariff face to face with the problem of internal improvements.
As the election of 1832 drew near, the advocates of the two systems ranged themselves in two
great parties precisely as to-day: the advocates of the protective or American system with
internal improvements as an outlet for accumulations of revenue on the one side; on the other
the advocates of free trade. Between his desire for the advantages of the one with its attendant
disadvantages of government interference in its prosecution, and the freedom of commerce from
undue restrictions, Mr. Gallatin did not hesitate. He threw the whole force of his experience
and character into the free trade cause, and became the leader of its friends.

On September 30, 1831, a convention of the advocates of free trade, without distinction of
party, met at the Musical Fund Hall in Philadelphia. Two hundred and twelve delegates appeared.
Among them were Theodore Sedgwick, George Peabody, and John L. Gardner from Massachusetts;
Preserved Fish, John Constable, John A. Stevens, Jonathan Goodhue, James Boorman, Jacob Lorillard,
and Albert Gallatin from New York; C. C. Biddle, George Emlen, Isaac W. Norris from Pennsylvania;
Langdon Cheves, Henry Middleton, Joseph W. Allston, and William C. Preston from South Carolina;
and men of equal distinction, bankers, merchants, statesmen, and political economists from
other States. Of this convention Mr. Gallatin was the soul. He opened its business by stating
the objects of the meeting, and nominated the Hon. Philip P. Barbour of Virginia for president.
A general committee of two from each State was appointed, which recommended an address to the
people of the United States and a memorial to Congress. The address to the people closed with
a declaration that the near extinguishment of the national debt, which would be discharged
by the available funds of the government on January 1, 1833, suggested that the moment was
propitious for the establishment of the principles of free trade. Thus the people of the United
States, who had successfully asserted the doctrines of free government, might add to its claims
upon the gratitude of the world by being the first also to proclaim the theory of a free and
unrestricted commerce, the genuine "American system." Mr. Gallatin was the chairman of the
committee of fourteen, one from each State represented in the convention, to prepare the memorial
which was presented in their behalf to Congress, the conclusions of which, presented with his
consummate ability, demonstrated with mathematical precision that a duty of twenty-five per
cent. was sufficient for all the legitimate purposes of government. Here he found himself in
direct opposition to Mr. Clay, whose political existence was staked upon the opposite theory.
Mr. Clay answered in a great speech in the Senate in February, 1832, and forgot himself in
personal denunciation of Mr. Gallatin as a foreigner with European interests at heart, and
of utopian ideas; for this he expressed his regret to Mr. Gallatin in an interview arranged
by mutual friends at a much later period. Mr. Gallatin's views were accepted as the policy
of the country, and after some shifting of parties, in which friends and foes changed ground
in subordination to other political exigencies, they prevailed in the tariff of 1846, the best
arranged and most reasonable which the United States has yet seen.

It is certain that Mr. Gallatin was opposed to "protective" revenue. His preference was for
an "even" duty on all imports. This is not the place for an economic discussion. The true policy
of the United States is probably between the extremes of protection and free trade. The nature
of our population has been changed by the enormous immigration of the last fifty years. Moreover,
instead of an absolute freedom from debt the nation has had to endure the legacy of debt left
by the Civil War, to meet which a development of all its resources of manufacture as well as
of agriculture is required.

Administration

To arrive at a correct estimate of Mr. Gallatin's administration of the Treasury Department,
a cursory review of the establishment as he received it from the hands of Mr. Wolcott is necessary.
This review is confined to administration in its limited sense, namely, the direction of its
clerical management under the provisions of statute law. The organization of the department
as originated by Hamilton and established by the act of September 2, 1789, provided for a secretary
of the treasury as head of the department, whose general duty should be to supervise the fiscal
affairs of the country, and particularly to suggest and prepare plans for the improvement and
support of the public credit; and, under his direction and supervision, a comptroller to adjust
and preserve accounts; an auditor to receive, examine, and rectify accounts; a treasurer to
receive, keep, and disburse moneys on warrants signed and countersigned; a register to keep
the accounts of receipts and expenditures; and an assistant to the secretary of the treasury
to fill any vacancy from absence or other temporary cause. In addition to the departments of
State, Treasury, and War, a fourth, that of the Navy, was established April 30, 1798. The three
departments were brought into relation with that of the Treasury by an act passed July 16,
1798, supplementary to that organizing the Treasury, and which provided, 1st, for the appointment
of an accountant in each department, who was required to report to the accounting officer of
the Treasury; 2d, that the Treasurer of the United States should only disburse by warrants
on the Treasury, countersigned by the accountant of the Treasury; 3d, that all purchases for
supplies for military or naval service should be subject to the inspection and revision of
the officers of the Treasury. But in the Treasury Department there was no extravagance during
Gallatin's administration, and the shifting of responsibility would bring no saving of salaries.

In May, 1800, an act was passed making it "the duty of the secretary of the treasury to digest,
prepare, and lay before Congress at the commencement of every session a report on the subject
of finances, containing estimates of the public revenue and expenditures, and plans for improving
and increasing the revenue from time to time, for the purpose of giving information to Congress
in adopting modes for raising the money requisite to meet the expenditures." Hamilton had never
sent in any other than a statement of expenditure for the past fiscal year, together with the
estimate of the accountant of the Treasury for the proximate wants of the departments of government.
Mr. Gallatin incorporated in his annual report a balance sheet in accordance with the ordinary
forms of book-keeping familiar to every accountant and indispensable in every business establishment,
and such as is presented to the public in the monthly and annual statements of the Treasury
Department at this day.

The statutes show no legislation during Mr. Gallatin's period of administration, and to its
close he was in continual struggle to force upon Congress and the departments an accord with
his pet plan of minute specific appropriation of the sums estimated for and expended by each.
Mr. Madison heartily agreed with Mr. Gallatin on this subject, and on taking office placed
the relations of the State Department upon the desired footing. But the heads of the Army and
Navy were never willing to consent to the strict limitation which Mr. Gallatin would have imposed
on their expenditures. In his notes to Jefferson for the draft of his first message in 1801,
Mr. Gallatin said that the most important reform he could suggest was that of 'specific appropriations,'
and he inclosed an outline of a form to be enforced in detail. In January, 1802, he sent to
Joseph H. Nicholson a series of inquiries to be addressed to himself by a special committee
on the subject, with regard to the mode by which money was drawn from the Treasury and the
situation of accounts between that department and those of the Army and Navy. To these questions
he sent in to the House an elaborate reply, which he intended to be the basis of legislation.
Strict appropriation was the ideal at which he aimed, and this word was so often on his tongue
or in his messages that it could not be mentioned without a suggestion of his personality.
He carried the same nicety of detail into his domestic life. He managed his own household expenses,
and at a time when bountiful stores were the fashion in every household he insisted on a rigid
observance of the more precise French system. He made an appropriation of a certain sum each
day for his expenses, and required from his purveyor a strict daily account of disbursements.
An amusing story is told of him at his own table. On an occasion when entertaining a company
at dinner, he was dissatisfied with the menu and expressed his disapprobation to his maître
d'hôtel, a Frenchman, who replied to him in broken English, that it was not his fault, but
that of the "mal-appropriations."

The example set by Mr. Gallatin in this particular was never forgotten, and from his day to
this strict accountability has been the tradition of the Treasury Department, now greatly increased
in detail, but in structure essentially as it was originally organized.

Banking

There is no more instructive chapter in the history of finance than that upon the banking system
of the United States. It has its distinct eras of radical change, each of which presents a
series of tentative experiments. The outcome, by a process of development, in which political
expediency has been as effective an agency as financial necessity, is the present national
banking system. Though the term "government," or "national," bank is constantly used in reference
to the great banking institutions of England, France, and the United States, no one of these
is in the true sense of the word a national bank. The Bank of England is a chartered corporation,
the Bank of France an association instituted by law. The Bank of North America, and the Bank
of the United States which followed it, were founded on the same principle. Both were corporations
of individuals intimately connected with the government, enjoying certain privileges accorded
and being under certain restrictions, but otherwise independent of government control.

The Bank of North America, the first bank established in the United States, was also the first
which had any direct relation to the government. It was the conception of the comprehensive
and original mind of Robert Morris, the financier or superintendent of the public finances
of the United States. Its purpose was not the convenience or profit of individuals, but to
draw together the scattered financial resources of the country and found a public credit. He
submitted his plan to Congress, which adopted a resolution of approval May 26, 1781. The original
plan contemplated a capital of ten millions of dollars; but the collection of such a sum in
gold and silver in one depository was beyond the range of possibility at that period, and the
capital was finally fixed at four hundred thousand dollars, in one thousand shares of four
hundred dollars each. Subscription books were immediately opened, but not more than $70,000
was entered during the summer months. The arrival at Boston of a French war frigate with a
remittance of $470,000 in specie, which was brought to Philadelphia and deposited in the vaults
of the bank, enabled Mr. Morris to mature his plans. He designed to retain this sum in the
bank as a specie basis; but the necessities of the country were so urgent during the critical
season of the Yorktown campaign, that nearly one half of it was exhausted before an organization
could be effected. In December Congress passed an ordinance of incorporation. Mr. Morris then
subscribed the specie remaining in the Treasury, about $254,000, for shares for account of
the United States, which became thereby the principal stockholder. The limit assigned by the
ordinance remained, however, at ten millions of dollars. There was nothing in the acts of Congress
which implied any exclusive right of the United States government in the bank except during
the war of the Revolution. A local charter was obtained from the legislature of Pennsylvania,
and the bank was opened in Philadelphia for the transaction of business in January, 1782. Its
services to the government during the period of the war were inestimable. In the words of Hamilton,
"American independence owes much to it." But after the war such were the local jealousies,
the fears of oppression, and the dread of foreign influence, that, on the petition of the inhabitants
of Philadelphia and some of the neighboring counties, the legislature of Pennsylvania repealed
its charter on September 13, 1785. The bank continued its operations, however, under the charter
from Congress. On March 17, 1787, the legislature of Pennsylvania renewed the charter for fourteen
years and limited the capital to two millions of dollars. The charter was extended for a similar
term of fourteen years on March 26, 1799. Thus in the beginning of the American banking system
are found that distrust and jealousy of money power which seem inherent in democracies. The
exercise of state jurisdiction over the existence of the Bank of North America suggested possible
embarrassments, which could not escape the discernment of Hamilton, whose policy, as it was
also that of the Federal party, was to strengthen the powers of the government in every vital
branch of administration.

       *       *       *       *       *

In his comprehensive plan of government Hamilton included a financial institution to develop
the national resources, strengthen the public credit, aid the Treasury Department in its administration,
and provide a secure and sound circulating medium for the people. On December 13, 1790, he
sent in to Congress a report on the subject of a national bank. The Republican party, then
in the minority, opposed the plan as unconstitutional, on the ground that the power of creating
banks or any corporate body had not been expressly delegated to Congress, and was therefore
not possessed by it. Washington's cabinet was divided; Jefferson opposing the measure as not
within the implied powers, because it was an expediency and not a paramount necessity. Later
he used stronger language, and denounced the institution as "one of the most deadly hostility
existing against the principles and form of our Constitution," nor did he ever abandon these
views. There is the authority of Mr. Gallatin for saying that Jefferson "died a decided enemy
to our banking system generally, and specially to a bank of the United States." But Hamilton's
views prevailed. Washington, who in the weary years of war had seen the imperative necessity
of some national organization of the finances, after mature deliberation approved the plan,
and on February 25, 1791, the Bank of the United States was incorporated. The capital stock
was limited to twenty-five thousand shares of four hundred dollars each, or ten millions of
dollars, payable one fourth in gold and silver, and three fourths in public securities bearing
an interest of six and three per cent. The stock was immediately subscribed for, the government
taking five thousand shares, two millions of dollars, under the right reserved in the charter.
The subscription of the United States was paid in ten equal annual installments. A large proportion
of the stock was held abroad, and the shares soon rose above par. By an act of March 2, 1791,
the funded three per cents. were also made receivable in payment of subscriptions to the bank,
whence it has been said that out of the funding system sprung the bank, as three fourths of
its capital consisted of public stocks. Authority was given the bank to establish offices of
discount and deposit within the United States. The chief bank was placed in Philadelphia, and
branches were established in eight cities, with capitals in proportion to their commercial
importance.

In 1809 the stockholders of the Bank of the United States memorialized the government for a
renewal of their charter, which would expire on March 4, 1811; and on March 9, 1809, Mr. Gallatin
sent in a report in which he reviewed the operations of the bank from its organization. Of
the government shares, five million dollars at par, two thousand four hundred and ninety-three
shares were sold in 1796 and 1797 at an advance of 25 per cent., two hundred and eighty-seven
in 1797 at an advance of 20 per cent., and the remaining 2220 shares in 1802, at an advance
of 45 per cent., making together, exclusive of the dividends, a profit of $671,680 to the United
States. Eighteen thousand shares of the bank stock were held abroad, and seven thousand shares,
or a little more than one fourth part of the capital, in the United States. A table of all
the dividends made by the bank showed that they had on the average been at the rate of 8-3/8
(precisely 8-13/34) per cent. a year, which proved that the bank had not in any considerable
degree used the public deposits for the purpose of extending its discounts. From a general
view of the debits and credits, as presented, it appeared that the affairs of the Bank of the
United States, considered as a moneyed institution, had been wisely and skillfully managed.
The advantages derived by the government Mr. Gallatin stated to be, 1, safekeeping of the public
moneys; 2, transmission of the public moneys; 3, collection of the revenue; 4, loans. The strongest
objection to the renewal of the charter lay in the great portion of the bank stock held by
foreigners. Not on account of any influence over the institution, since they had no vote; but
because of the high rate of interest payable by America to foreign countries. If the charter
were not renewed the principal of that portion, amounting to $7,200,000, must at once be remitted
abroad; but if the charter were renewed, dividends equal to an interest of about 8-1/2 per
cent. per annum must be remitted. Mr. Gallatin's report closed with the following suggestions:--

I. That the bank should pay an interest to the United States on the public deposits above a
certain sum.

II. That it should be bound to lend the United States a sum not exceeding three fifths of its
capital.

III. That the capital stock of the bank should be increased to thirty millions of dollars,
to be subscribed for, 1, five millions by citizens of the United States; 2, fifteen millions
by the States; a branch to be established in each subscribing State; 3, payments by either
individuals or States to be in specie or public stock of the United States at rates to be fixed
by law; the subscribing States to pay in ten annual installments.

IV. That some share should be given in the direction to the general and state governments by
appointment of directors in the general direction and branches.

The result of this plan would be, 1st, that the United States might, from the interest on the
public deposits, accumulate during years of peace and prosperity a treasure sufficient to meet
periods of war and calamity; 2d, that they might rely on a loan of eighteen millions of dollars
in any sudden emergency; 3d, that by the payment in ten installments the increase in capital
would be in proportion to the progressive state of the country; 4th, that the bank itself would
form an additional bond of common interest and union amongst the several States. But these
arguments availed not against the blind and ignorant jealousy of the Republican majority in
the House. The days of the bank were numbered. Congress refused to prolong its existence, and
the institution was dissolved. Fortunately for the country, it wound up its affairs with such
deliberation and prudence as to allow of the interposition of other bank credits in lieu of
those withdrawn, and thus prevented a serious shock to the interests of the community. In the
twenty years of its existence from 1791 to 1811 its management was irreproachable. Its annual
dividends from 1791 to 1809 were 8-2/3 per cent., and its stock, always above par, from 1805
to 1809 ranged from 20 to 40 per cent. premium.

In its numerous and varied relations to the government it had been a useful and faithful servant,
and its directors had never assumed the attitude of money kings, of which the Jeffersonian
democracy pretended to stand in hourly dread. To the general and important nature of its financial
service Mr. Gallatin gave his testimony in 1830; after his own direct participation in public
affairs had ended.

     "Experience, however, has since confirmed the great utility and
     importance of a bank of the United States in its connection with
     the Treasury. The first great advantage derived from it consists in
     the safekeeping of the public moneys, securing in the first
     instance the immediate payment of those received by the principal
     collectors, and affording a constant check on all their
     transactions; and afterwards rendering a defalcation in the moneys
     once paid, and whilst nominally in the treasury, absolutely
     impossible. The next, and not less important, benefit is to be
     found in the perfect facility with which all the public payments
     are made by checks or treasury drafts, payable at any place where
     the bank has an office; all those who have demands against
     government are paid in the place most convenient to them; and the
     public moneys are transferred through our extensive territory at a
     moment's warning without any risk or expense, to the places most
     remote from those of collection, and wherever public exigencies may
     require."

Late in life, in a letter to John M. Botts, June 14, 1841, Mr. Gallatin expressed the same
opinions with regard to the usefulness of a government bank as an aid to the Treasury Department,
but limited his approval to that use. "Except in its character of fiscal agent to the general
government I attach much less importance to a national bank than several of those who are in
favor of it." "Did I believe," he adds in the same letter, "that a bank of the United States
would effectually secure us a sound currency, I would think it a duty at all hazards to promote
the object."

The reason for his doubts in 1841 is easily seen in the impossibility of annihilating or controlling
the three hundred distinct currencies of as many banks, each nominally convertible into specie
at its point of issue; a financial puzzle which Mr. Chase solved in the device and organization
of the present national banking system, which, without involving the government in banking
operations, affords to the people a homogeneous currency of uniform value, and secures its
convertibility by reasonable but absolute restrictions, upon conformity to which the existence
of the banks depends. The exigencies of war compelled an acquiescence in the plans of Mr. Chase,
which, at the time when Mr. Gallatin expressed his doubts, could not have been had in any system
whatever which involved the subordination of the banks.

The wide spread of the state bank system, with its irresponsible and unlimited issues, occurring
subsequent to Mr. Gallatin's withdrawal from the Treasury, was a consequence of the failure
to renew the charter of the Bank of the United States; and if ever there were a system by which
the inhabitants of States whose floating capital was small were placed at the mercy of moneyed
corporations of the States where it was abundant, it was the state bank system. The experience
of the old confederation had not taught this lesson. The colonial system was continued by the
several States, and bills of credit were issued on their faith. The continental system was
a compound of the main features of this plan. The bills were issued by the Congress, but the
States were relied upon for their ultimate redemption.

The collapse of the entire fabric of finance led to the establishment of the Bank of North
America, the notes of which were redeemable and redeemed at the bank counters. The article
in the Constitution of 1787, prohibiting the issue of bills of credit by the States, was evidently
intended to secure a uniform currency to the people of the United States, and it has been by
a strange perversion of this manifest intention that the power has been conceded to the States
to charter corporations to do that which was forbidden to themselves in their sovereign capacity;
namely, to issue bills of credit, which bank-notes are. It is idle to say that, because such
bills were not a "legal tender," they were therefore not of the character which the Constitution
forbade. Necessity knows no law, and in the absence of any other currency the people were perforce
compelled to take what they could get. Experience later showed that large amounts of paper
money manufactured in one State were easily put in circulation in far distant communities,
and considerable sums, through the operations of wear and tear and the vicissitudes incident
to its fragile nature, never returned to plague the inventor.

At the time of the organization of the National Bank by Hamilton, there were but three banks
in the United States: the Bank of North America, the Bank of New York, and the Bank of Massachusetts.
Their added capital amounted to two millions of dollars, and their issues were inconsiderable.

Mr. Gallatin estimated that in January, 1811, just before the expiration of the bank charter,
there were in the United States eighty-eight state banks with a capital of $42,612,000.

--------------------------+-------------+---------------+------------
                          |             |    Notes in   |
                          |   Capital.  |  Circulation. |   Specie.
--------------------------+-------------+---------------+------------
Bank of the United States | $10,000,000 |  $5,400,000   |  $5,800,000
Eighty-eight State Banks  |  42,610,601 |  22,700,000   |   9,600,000
--------------------------+-------------+---------------+------------
                          | $52,610,601 | $28,100,000   | $15,400,000
--------------------------+-------------+---------------+------------

Over the local institutions the Bank of the United States always exercised a salutary control,
checking any disposition to overtrade by restraining their issues and holding them to a proper
specie reserve; and this by no other interference except its countenance or ill favor, as such
banks severally observed or disregarded the ordinary rules of financial prudence. The immediate
effect of the refusal of Congress to recharter the Bank of the United States was to bring the
Treasury to the verge of bankruptcy. The interference of Parish, Girard, and Astor alone saved
the credit of the government, and this interference was no doubt prompted by self-interest.
That Mr. Astor was hostile to the bank is certain. Gallatin wrote to Madison in January, 1811,
that Mr. Astor had sent him a verbal message, "that in case of non-renewal of the charter of
the Bank of the United States, all his funds and those of his friends, to the amount of two
millions of dollars, would be at the command of government, either in importing specie, circulating
government paper, or in any other way best calculated to prevent any injury arising from the
dissolution of the bank," and he added that Mr. Bentson, Mr. Astor's son-in-law, in communicating
this message said, "that in this instance profit was not Mr. Astor's object, and that he would
go great lengths, partly from pride and partly from wish, to see the bank down." In 1813, when
the bank was "down," Mr. Gallatin was no longer master of the situation. He offered to treat
directly with Parish, Girard, and Astor for ten millions of dollars, but finding some hesitation,
he opened the loan for subscription. When the subscription failed, he was at the mercy of the
capitalists.

Another immediate effect of the dissolution of the bank was the withdrawal from the country
of the foreign capital invested in the bank, more than seven millions of dollars. This amount
was remitted, in the twelve months preceding the war, in specie. Specie was at that time a
product foreign to the United States, and by no means easy to obtain. Specie, as Mr. Gallatin
profoundly observed, does not precede, but follows wealth. The want of it nearly destroyed
Morris's original plan for the Bank of North America, and was only made up by the fortunate
receipt of the French remittances. In 1808 the specie in the vaults of the treasury reached
fourteen millions of dollars, but during the operation of the Embargo Act, the banks of New
England had gradually accumulated a specie reserve, and that of Richmond, Virginia, pursued
the same policy. Together they held one third of the entire specie reserve of the banks. The
amount of specie in the Bank of the United States, January 1, 1811, had fallen to $5,800,000,
which soon found its way abroad.

The notes of the Bank of the United States, payable on demand in gold and silver at the counters
of the bank, or any of its branches, were, by its charter, receivable in all payments to the
United States; but this quality was also stripped from them on March 19, 1812, by a repeal
of the act according it. To these disturbances of the financial equilibrium of the country
was added the necessary withdrawal of fifteen millions of bank credit and its transfer to other
institutions. This gave an extraordinary impulse to the establishment of local banks, each
eager for a share of the profits. The capital of the country, instead of being concentrated,
was dissipated. Between January 1, 1811, and 1815, one hundred and twenty new banks were chartered,
and forty millions of dollars were added to the banking capital. To realize profits, the issues
of paper were pushed to the extreme of possible circulation. Meanwhile New England kept aloof
from the nation. The specie in the vaults of the banks of Massachusetts rose from $1,706,000
on June 1, 1811, to $7,326,000 on June 1, 1814. This was a consequence of the New England policy
of opposition. Mr. Gallatin estimated that the proceeds of loans, exclusive of treasury notes
and temporary loans, paid into the treasury from the commencement of the war to the end of
the year 1814 were $41,010,000: of which sum the Eastern States lent $2,900,000; the Middle
States, $35,790,000; Southwestern States, $2,320,000.

The floating debt of the United States, consisting of treasury notes and temporary loans unpaid,
amounted, January 1, 1815, to $11,250,000, of which nearly four fifths were loaned by the cities
of New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, and the District of Columbia. The suspension of the
banks was precipitated by the capture of Washington. It began in Baltimore, which was threatened
by the British, and was at once followed in Philadelphia and New York. Before the end of September
all the banks south and west of New England had suspended specie payment. In his "Considerations
on the Currency," Mr. Gallatin expressed his--

     "deliberate opinion that the suspension might have been prevented
     at the time when it took place, had the Bank of the United States
     been in existence. The exaggerated increase of state banks,
     occasioned by the dissolution of that institution, would not have
     occurred. That bank would as before have restrained them within
     proper bounds and checked their issues, and through the means of
     its offices it would have been in possession of the earliest
     symptoms of the approaching danger. It would have put the Treasury
     Department on its guard; both, acting in concert, would certainly
     have been able, at least, to retard the event; and as the treaty of
     peace was ratified within less than six months after the suspension
     took place, that catastrophe would have been avoided."

But within fifteen months the bank issues increased from forty-five and a half to sixty millions.

----------------------+-------------+--------------+------------
                      | Capital.    | Circulation. |   Specie.
----------------------+-------------+--------------+------------
Banks of New England. | $15,690,000 |  $5,320,000  |  $8,200,000
Other Banks           |  66,930,000 |  44,730,000  |   8,600,000
----------------------+-------------+--------------+------------
1815. 208 State Banks.| $82,620,000 | $50,050,000  | $16,800,000
1816. 246 State Banks.|  89,822,422 |  68,000,000  |  19,000,000
----------------------+-------------+--------------+------------

The depression of the local currencies ranged from seven to twenty-five per cent. In New York
and Charleston it was seven to ten per cent. below the par of coin. At Philadelphia from seventeen
to eighteen per cent. At Washington and Baltimore from twenty to twenty-two, and at Pittsburgh
and on the frontier, twenty-five per cent. below par. The circulating medium, or measure of
values, being doubled, the price of commodities was doubled. The agiotage, of course, was the
profit of the bankers and brokers; a sum estimated at six millions of dollars a year, or ten
per cent. on the exchanges of the country, which McDuffie, in his celebrated report, estimated
at sixty millions annually.

In November the Treasury Department found itself involved in the common disaster. The refusal
of the banks, in which the public moneys were deposited, to pay their notes or the drafts upon
them in specie deprived the government of its gold and silver; and their refusal, likewise,
of credit and circulation to the issues of banks in other States deprived the government also
of the only means it possessed for transferring its funds to pay the dividends on the debt
and discharge the treasury notes. Mr. Dallas found himself compelled to appeal to the banks
by circular to subscribe for sufficient treasury notes to secure them such advances as might
be asked of them for the discharge of the public obligations.

"In the latter end of the year 1814," says Mr. Gallatin, "Mr. Jefferson suggested the propriety
of a gradual issue by government of two hundred millions of dollars in paper;" commenting upon
which Mr. Gallatin remarks that Mr. Jefferson, from the imperfect data in his possession, "greatly
overrated the amount of paper currency which could be sustained at par; and he had, on the
other hand, underrated the great expenses of the war;" but at "all events," he adds, "the issue
of government paper ought to be kept in reserve for extraordinary circumstances." But here
it may be remarked that the evolution of the systems of American finance seems to lead slowly
but surely to an entire divorce of banking from currency, and the day is not far distant when
the circulating medium of the United States will consist of gold and silver, and of government
issues restricted, according to the English principle, to the minimum of circulation, and kept
equivalent to coin by a specie reserve in the treasury; while the banks, their circulation
withdrawn and the institutions freed from any tax, will be confined to their legitimate business
of receiving deposits and making loans and discounts.

On October 14, 1814, Alexander J. Dallas, Mr. Gallatin's old friend, who had been appointed
secretary of the treasury on the 6th of the same month, in a report of a plan to support the
public credit, proposed the incorporation of a national bank. A bill was passed by Congress,
but returned to it by Madison with his veto on January 15, 1815. But he objected for reasons
of detail. Mr. Dallas again, as a last resort, insisted on a bank as the only means by which
the currency of the country could be restored to a sound condition. In December, 1815, Dallas
reported to the committee of the House of Representatives on the national currency, of which
John C. Calhoun was chairman, a plan for a national bank, and on March 3, 1816, the second
Bank of the United States was chartered by Congress. The capital was thirty-five millions,
of which the government held seven millions in seventy thousand shares of one hundred dollars
each. Mr. Madison approved the bill. This completed the abandonment of every shred of principle
claimed by the Republican party as their rule of action. They struggled through the rest of
their existence without a political conviction. The national bank, and the system of internal
taxation which had been scorned by Jefferson and Madison as unconstitutional, were accepted
actually under Madison's administration. Gallatin's success, owing to the development and application
of Hamilton's plans, was a complete vindication of the theory and practice of the Federalists
which they abhorred; Jefferson's plan of a government issue of paper money was a higher flight
into the upper atmosphere of implied powers than Hamilton ever dreamed of.

The second national bank of the United States was also located at Philadelphia, and chartered
for twenty years. The manner in which it performed its financial service is admirably set forth
in Mr. Gallatin's "Considerations on the Currency," already mentioned. It acted as a regulator
upon the state banks, checked excessive issues on their part, and brought the paper currency
of the country down from sixty-six to less than forty millions, before the year 1820.

In April, 1816, Mr. Dallas having signified his intention to resign the Treasury, Mr. Madison
wrote to Gallatin, offering him his choice between the mission to France and the Treasury Department.
Mr. Gallatin's reply was characteristic. He declined the Treasury, but with reluctance, since
he thought he would be more useful at home than abroad, and because he preferred to be in America
rather than in Europe. One of his preponderating reasons was that, although he felt himself
competent to the higher duties of the office, there was, for what he conceived "a proper management
of the Treasury, a necessity for a mass of mechanical labor connected with details, forms,
calculating, etc., which having lost sight of the thread and routine, he could not think of
again learning and going through." He was aware that there was "much confusion due to the changes
of office and the state of the currency, and thought that an active young man could alone reinstate
and direct properly that department."

In June of the same year, while waiting for the Peacock, which was to carry him across the
sea, Gallatin wrote Mr. Madison an urgent letter, impressing upon him the necessity of restoring
specie payment, and his perfect conviction that nothing but the will of the government was
wanted to reinstate the country in its moral character in that respect. He dreaded the "paper
taint," which he found spreading as he journeyed northward.

In January 1817, delegates from the banks of New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Virginia
met in Philadelphia and agreed to a general and simultaneous resumption of specie payments.
The Bank of the United States proposed a compact which was accepted by the state banks and
ratified by the secretary of the treasury. That institution engaged, to a reasonable extent,
to support any bank menaced. This engagement and the importation of seven millions of specie
from abroad by the Bank of the United States secured a general restoration of specie payment.
In 1822 Mr. Gallatin was tendered and declined the office of president of the Bank of the United
States.

In 1829 he prepared for Mr. Ingham, then secretary of the treasury, a masterly statement of
the relative value of gold and silver. In 1830 Mr. Gallatin wrote for the "American Quarterly
Review" his essay, "Considerations on the Currency and Banking System of the United States."
Appearing at the time when the renewal of the charter of the Bank of the United States was
an absorbing question, this essay was equally sought for by both the friends and opponents
of the bank. It is not confined, however, to this subject, but covers the entire field of American
finance. His treatment of the currency question was novel. This limit is higher than that adopted
in France and England, but the general principle that a circulating medium is sound only as
it is strong in gold and silver, and that gold and silver can only be retained permanently
by making a place for them in the circulating medium by a restriction of paper issues, will
yet find favor even in this paper-loving country.

In 1832 Mr. Gallatin accepted the presidency of a bank in New York, the subscription to the
stock of which, $750,000, was completed by Mr. John Jacob Astor on condition that Mr. Gallatin
should manage its affairs. The direction of its concerns, without absorbing his time, kept
him in the financial current. The bank was called the National Bank of New York. But not in
this modest post was he to find the financial path smooth. It is true he had lived in the flesh
to see the financial millennium. The rapid growth of the country and the faithful adherence
of his successors in the Treasury Department to the funding principle had at last realized
his dream. The national debt was extinguished. The last dollar was paid. Louis McLane, secretary
of the treasury, on December 5, 1832, in his report on the finances, said that the dividends
derived from the bank shares held by the United States were more than was required to pay the
interest, and that the debt might therefore be considered as substantially extinguished after
January 1, 1833.

On December 3, 1833, Roger B. Taney, secretary of the treasury, reported to Congress that he
had directed the removal of the deposits of the government from the Bank of the United States
and placed them in banks of his own selection. He gave a number of reasons for this extraordinary
exercise of the power which he obtained by his appointment on September 23, 1833. He received
his reward in June, 1834, being then transferred by President Jackson to the seat of chief
justice of the Supreme Court. In his annual report Taney named, among his elaborate reasons
for the removal, that the bank had used its money for electioneering purposes, and that he
"had always regarded the result of the last election of President of the United States as the
declaration of a majority of the people that the charter ought not to be renewed." He further
expressed the opinion "that a corporation of that description was not necessary either for
the fiscal operations of the government or the general convenience of the people." It mattered
little to him that Mr. Gallatin had only recently pointed out that from the year 1791 the operations
of the Treasury had, without interruption, been carried on through the medium of banks; during
the years 1811 to 1814, by the state banks, with a result which no one had as yet forgotten;
before and since that brief interval through the Bank of the United States. Enough for Taney,
that it was the will of his imperious master, 'the pugnacious animal,' as Gallatin aptly termed
him.

In October, 1834, Taney's successor in the Treasury, Levi Woodbury, gave notice that the remaining
debt, unredeemed after January 1, 1835, would cease to bear interest and be promptly paid on
application to the commissioners of loans in the several States. On December 8, 1835, Mr. Woodbury
reported "an unprecedented spectacle presented to the world of a government virtually without
any debts and without any direct taxation." The surplus revenues, about thirty-seven and a
half millions of dollars, had by an act of the previous session been distributed among the
several States. But the secretary and the country soon found that they were on dangerous ground.
In December, 1837, the same secretary, alarmed at his responsibility, said to Congress, in
warning words, "We are without any national debt to absorb and regulate surpluses, or any adequate
supply of banking institutions which provide a sound currency for general purposes by paying
specie on demand, or which are in a situation fully to command confidence for keeping, disbursing,
and transferring the public funds in a satisfactory manner."

The Bank of the United States, on the expiration of its charter in March, 1836, accepted a
charter from the State of Pennsylvania; but, though its influence continued to be as great,
its direction was no longer the same. Abandoning its legitimate business, it speculated in
merchandise, and even kept an agent in New Orleans to compete with the Barings in purchases
of the cotton crop as a basis for exchange. Precisely as in 1811, after the withdrawal of the
control of the Bank of the United States, the state banks ran a wild career of speculation.
From 1830 to 1837 three hundred new banks sprang up with an additional capital of one hundred
and forty-five millions, doubling, as twenty years before, the banking capital of the country.
This volume the deposits of the Treasury continued to swell. Mr. Woodbury was the first to
take alarm. In December, 1836, he reported the specie in the country to have increased from
thirty millions in 1833 to seventy-three millions at the date of his report, and the paper
circulation, in the same period, to have advanced, since the removal of the deposits from the
Bank of the United States, from eighty millions to one hundred and twenty millions, or forty
millions in eighteen months; and the bank capital, in the same period, to have increased from
two hundred to three hundred millions. Importation augmented; the balance of trade suddenly
turned against the United States to the extent of one hundred and fifty millions, and coin
began to flow abroad to liquidate the account. There was no debt to attract foreign investment
and arrest the export of specie. Added to this was the withdrawal of the government deposits
from the pet banks, which compelled an immediate contraction. The result was inevitable. On
May 10, 1837, the New York banks suspended, Mr. Gallatin's institution being of course dragged
down with the rest. It is idle to suppose that any single bank can hold out against a general
suspension. It may liquidate or become a bank of deposits, but it cannot maintain its relations
with its sister institutions except on a basis of common accord.

A general suspension followed. Mr. Woodbury proved himself equal to the emergency, and recommended
a plan of "keeping the public money under new legislative provisions without using banks at
all as fiscal agents." This was the beginning of the sub-treasury system, a new departure in
treasury management, and a further evolution in American finance. It still remains, and will
no doubt be permanent. Its establishment was necessary because of the absence of a national bank.

Mr. Gallatin at once turned his attention to bring about first a liquidation and then a resumption.
It was a favorite maxim with him, that "the agonies of resumption are far harder to endure
than those of suspension," as it is easier to refrain from lapse of virtue than to restore
moral integrity once impaired. But in resumption the suffering falls where it belongs, on the
careless, the improvident, and the over-trader.

On August 15, 1837, the officers of the banks of New York city, in a general meeting, appointed
a committee of three to call a convention of the principal banks to agree upon a time for a
resumption of specie payments. This committee, of which Mr. Gallatin was chairman, on August
18 addressed a circular to the principal banks in the United States, inviting the expression
of their wishes as to the time and place for a convention, suggesting New York as the place,
and October, 1837, as the time. They said, in addition, that the banks of New York city, in
view of the law of the State dissolving them as legal corporations in case of suspension for
one year, must resume at some time between January 1 and March 15, 1838. The circular committed
the New York banks to no definite action, but expressed the opinion that the fall in the rate
of exchanges indicated an early return of specie to par, when resumption could be effected
without danger. The banks of Philadelphia held a meeting on August 29, and adopted resolutions
declaring it inexpedient to appoint delegates to the proposed convention. Aware of the reasons
for this action, the chief of which was the extended and perhaps insolvent condition of the
United States Bank of Pennsylvania, the New York committee invited the banks in the several
States to appoint delegates to meet on November 27, 1837, in New York. Delegates from banks
of seventeen States and the District of Columbia appeared. On the 30th resolutions were brought
in recommending a general resumption on July 1, without precluding an earlier resumption on
the part of such banks as might find it necessary. The Pennsylvania banks opposed this action
with resolutions condemning the idea of immediate resumption as impracticable, and also, in
the absence of delegates from the banks of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Tennessee,
as unwise. The convention met again on December 2, when an adjournment was carried to April
11, 1838, when delegates from the banks not represented were invited to attend. Mr. Gallatin
saw that the combination of the Philadelphia and Boston banks, under the lead of Mr. Biddle,
would certainly force a further postponement. Exchange on London, which had been as high as
121, the true par being about 109-1/2, nominal, had fallen to 111-1/2, which, considering that
the city bank paper was at a discount of five per cent., was at the rate of 2-1/2 per cent.
below specie par. The exportation of specie had entirely ceased.

On December 15 Mr. Gallatin and his committee appointed at the general convention submitted
a report which he had drafted, which, though addressed to the New York banks, covered the whole
ground. Meanwhile the highest authority in Pennsylvania had given it as his opinion "that the
banks of Pennsylvania were in a much sounder state than before the suspension, and that the
resumption of specie payments, so far as it depends on their situation and resources, may take
place at any time."

On February 28, 1838, Mr. Gallatin's committee made a further report showing that the liabilities
of the New York banks had been reduced more than twelve millions and a half, or fifty per cent.,
and asserting that with the support of the community and the state authorities they could resume
on an equal footing on May 10. This declaration was welcomed with great satisfaction by a general
meeting of the citizens of New York. On April 11 the general convention again met in New York.
The Philadelphia banks declined to attend. A letter from Mr. Woodbury promised the support
of the Treasury Department. A committee of one from each State was appointed, which recommended
the first Monday in October as the earliest day for a general resumption. The convention could
not, however, be brought to fix upon so early a day, but finally fixed upon January 1, 1839,
and adjourned. The New York banks would have accepted July 1, 1838, but this being refused
they resumed alone on May 10, and the force of public opinion compelled resumption by nearly
all the banks of the country on July 1.

The terrible contraction was fatal to the United States Bank of Pennsylvania, which after a
vain struggle closed its doors in October, 1839, and carried with it the entire banking system
of the Southern and Southwestern States. Although in no way similar to the semi-governmental
institutions which preceded it, yet, from its similarity of name and identity of location,
its disastrous failure added to the blind popular distrust of its predecessors, which narrow-minded
politicians had fostered for their own selfish purposes. Fortunately the sub-treasury plan
of Mr. Woodbury supplied the need of a safe place of deposit which, since the refusal of Congress
to renew the charter of the old bank, had been sorely felt.

In 1838, on the foundation of the Bank of Commerce under the free banking law of the State
of New York, the presidency of it was first tendered to Mr. Gallatin. The directors of this
bank were among the most distinguished financiers of the city, and its object was to provide
a conservative institution with sufficient power and capital to act as a regulator upon the
New York banks. Profit to the stockholders was secondary to the reserve power for general advantage.

In June, 1839, Mr. Gallatin resigned his post as president of the National Bank of New York.
In 1841 he published a financial essay, which he entitled "Suggestions on the Banks and Currency
of the United States," a paper full of information, but from the nature of the subject not
to be compared in general interest with his earlier paper, which is as fresh to-day as when
it was written. Mr. Gallatin condemned paper currency as an artificial stimulus, and the ultimate
object of his essays was to annihilate what he termed the "dangerous instrument." He admitted
its utility and convenience, when used with great sobriety, but he deprecated its tendency
to degenerate into a depreciated and irredeemable currency. This tendency the present national
banking law arrests, but the law rather invites than prohibits the stimulus of increased issues.
The last word has not yet been said on national currency, which, though the basis of all commercial
transactions, has necessarily no other relation to banks than that which it holds to any individual
in the community.

Economic questions have interested the highest order of mind on the two continents. Sismondi
published a paper on commercial wealth in 1803, and in 1810 a memoir on paper money, which
he prepared to show how it might be suppressed in the Austrian dominions; Humboldt made a special
study of the sources and quantity of the precious metals in the world, in which Mr. Gallatin
aided him by investigation in America. Michel Chevalier was interested in the same subjects;
surviving his two masters in the art and witnessing the marvelous effects of the additions
made by America to the store of precious metals, he continued the study in the spirit of his
predecessors, and favored the world with instructive papers. Mr. Gallatin's contributions to
this science are remarkable for minute research and careful deductions.

In 1843 President Tyler tendered the Treasury portfolio to Mr. Gallatin. The venerable financier
looked upon the offer as an act of folly to which a serious answer seemed hardly necessary.
Yet as silence might be misconstrued, he replied that he wanted no office, and to accept at
his age that of secretary of the treasury would "be an act of insanity." He was then in his
eighty-third year. The offer of the post was but an ill-considered caprice of Mr. Tyler.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: Cents are omitted as confusing figures.]

[Footnote 11: The first Annual Report of the Secretary of the Treasury. This was under the
Supplementary Treasury Act.]

[Footnote 12: Excess of receipts, notwithstanding the purchase of Louisiana and payments on
account of principal and interest of the debt.]

[Footnote 13: These were the banks of New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. Seven
presidents formed the committee. John A. Stevens of New York was chairman, by request of the
Secretary of the Treasury. The other members were named by him. The sum advanced to the government
was one hundred and fifty millions of dollars in coin.]

[Footnote 14: At Portland, $120,000; Salem, $183,600; Boston, $75,300; Providence, $67,800;
Richmond, $49,000; Norfolk, $103,000; Charleston, $354,000.]

[Footnote 15: Report of Secretary Dallas, September 20, 1816.]

[Footnote 16: Act of March 3, 1817.]

[Footnote 17: Democratic Review, xii. 641.]

[Footnote 18: Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means.]

CHAPTER VII

IN THE CABINET

The general principles which Mr. Jefferson proposed to apply in his conduct of the government
were not principles of organization but of administration. The establishments devised by Hamilton,
in accordance with or in development of the provisions of the Constitution, were organic. The
new policy was essentially restrictive and economic. The military and naval establishments
were to be kept at their lowest possible limit. The Treasury Department was to be conducted
on strictly business principles. The debt was to be reduced and finally paid by a fixed annual
appropriation. The revenue was to be raised by imposts on importation and tonnage, and by direct
taxation, if necessary. The public land system was to be developed. A scheme of internal improvements
by land and water highways was to be devised. All these purposes except the last had been declared
by the opposition during the last part of Washington's second term and during Adams's presidency,
and had been lucidly expounded by Madison, Gallatin, Giles, Nicholas, and others of the Republican
leaders. On all these subjects Mr. Gallatin was in accord with his chief. Only upon the bank
question were they at issue. Mr. Jefferson detested or feared the aristocracy of money, while
Gallatin, with a clearer insight into commercial and financial questions, recognized that in
a young country where capital was limited, and specie in still greater disproportion to the
increasing demands of trade, a well-ordered, well-managed money institution was an enormous
advantage, if not an imperative necessity to the government and the people.

