And now all this atmosphere of quiet sociableness was about to be destroyed through the paltry
misdemeanours of a subfuse cat. For I had not the smallest doubt as to what would happen. Mr.
Trumpington was a mild amiable-looking man. There was not the faintest prospect of his flying
into a rage. He would not say, "What right have you to interfere with the private affairs of
another man's domesticated fauna?" He would not ask me why I had inveigled his beautiful black
cat on to my poisonous premises. No, we should talk together reasonably, amicably, and as man
to man. Mr. Trumpington would promise to do all he could to give his cat pleasant, cheerful
evenings at home, and I should agree that it was very hard to prevent a young cat from wanting
to see a bit of life. "Cats," we should say, nodding our heads wisely, "will be cats."

And then from cats we should pass on to dogs, to sport, to politics, to business, to heaven
knows what. And the next day we should be compelled to pick up our conversation where we had
dropped it. We should discuss our gardens and our family affairs. Things would go from bad
to worse. All our privacy and peace would disappear. We might almost as well break down the
wall that divided us at once. Possibly (thought of horror) his wife would call on Araminta....

Still pondering ruefully, I turned round at the bottom of the garden path, and behold, sitting
on the party-wall between Mr. Trumpington's garden and mine, was the debateable cat. An impulse
of murderous rage possessed me. I took an old golf-ball from my pocket and hurled it as hard
as I could at the potential destroyer of my peace. The black cat was no sportsman. It dodged,
and disappeared hastily on the Trumpington side. At the same moment from behind a large clump
of hollyhocks I heard the sudden cry of a strong man in pain, followed by a stilled oath. I
squatted down instantly behind a thick rosebush; then, rising to peer cautiously, I saw a most
painful sight. I saw the horrible transformation which may be caused in the features of an
ordinary and amiable man by an access of sudden rage and the impact of a brambled golf-ball
on the end of the nose. I squatted again.

"Confound the infernal fool! Who did that?" said the face of Mr. Trumpington, looking through
the hollyhock peepholes, the buds of which rapidly began to turn from a lightish pink to deep rose.

It is always a more dignified policy to ignore a man in a temper, so it was not until about
ten minutes had elapsed, and silence reigned, that I crawled painfully away into safety.

About five minutes later a note was brought round by hand from next door. It ran as follows:--

"Mr. Trumpington will feel greatly obliged if Mr. Brown will prevent his black cat from constantly
straying upon his, Mr. Trumpington's, flower-beds. He also requests that when Mr. Brown wishes
to persecute his black cat he should not do so when the animal is sitting on Mr. Trumpington's
wall, as this practice is attended with considerable risk to Mr. Trumpington's life and limbs."

I sat down and wrote a reply.

"Mr. Brown," I said, "greatly regrets that a golf-ball playfully thrown at Mr. Trumpington's
black cat whilst sitting on his, Mr. Brown's, wall, should have caused annoyance to Mr. Trumpington."

       *       *       *       *       *

When I went out into the garden on the following day I could see Mr. Trumpington's head, tastefully
framed in pink hollyhock buds, apparently following the spoor of a green-fly. He looked up
almost at once and caught my eye, but made no sign of recognition. I breathed a sigh of relief.
Thank heaven, I thought to myself, the worst has not happened. The danger that I feared yesterday
has blown over. There is no immediate prospect of Mr. Trumpington and myself becoming boon
companions. I strolled a little further down the path, and, still occupying its old strategic
position on the party-wall and licking its fur in the sun, I beheld the black cat.

As I approached him he smiled an ambiguous smile, and jumped down once more upon Trumpington
soil. A wave of great friendliness for the unhappy quadruped swept over me. "Persecute," I
thought; "not likely." I went indoors and, after a short consultation with Harriet, came out
again carrying a small round fish-cake on a spoon. I lobbed it far and wide over the wall,
and it fell noiselessly and quite in the middle of Mr. Trumpington's most buttony calceolaria-bed.
Some time later I was rewarded by the sight of a black cat stealing with a look of grateful
memory on its face towards the Trumpington back-door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Customer. "BUT THAT'S A FEARFUL PRICE FOR SHRIMP-PASTE."

Grocer. "AH, BUT THESE ARE NORTH SEA SHRIMPS, MADAM."

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "I'D GIVE THE GERMAN EMPEROR WOT; I WOULD, STRAIGHT. I'D PULL EVERY FEAVER AHT
OF 'IS 'ELMET."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RESTORATIVE POWER OF MUSIC.

My house, though in the eyes of the rate-collector fully occupied, has now for several weeks
stood with an unmistakably vacant stare. My cook alone, with a young lady friend for company,
dwells there. What our great ballad-writers call the patter of tiny feet is stilled. The seaside
has demanded its toll, and I have for a time accompanied the evacuating host.

The other day, for a brief space, I returned home--a home which at the first glance seemed
to be as I had left it. But as I approached I was confronted with a change. The gate, which
in normal times used to swing shakily on its hinges and keep on chattering against its post
(in the vain effort to shut) whenever the wind was in its teeth, now leaned against an adjacent
bush in listless inaction. One of its hinges had been broken. I learned the details of the
tragedy from the gardener.

It was one of them I-talians, I gathered. Seeing, with the nice instinct of their race, that
my house must be the abode of music-lovers--detecting this from various subtle signs invisible
to me--they had drored their horgan through the gateway and up the grand carriage sweep which,
leading to the handsome portico entrance, is one of the outstanding features of all that well-situated
and desirable double-fronted brick and carved stone residential property which recently I was
wise enough to acquire for a mere song. Well, these I-talians had drored their instrument up
the drive and played to the front door for ton minutes. The cook and her friend, I learned
afterwards, heard them and, being satisfied to enjoy the entertainment without payment, had
remained out of sight. For ten minutes they played, the man turning the handle, his wife smiling
and bowing to the windows. Then, in the fine frenzy known to all great artists who are unrecognised,
they drored it down again to the gate. The fine frenzy was proved by the fury with which the
woman flung wide the portal that the horgan might be drored out. She flung it back too far,
and the hinge, a soulless thing of cast-iron, snapped.

The gardener--no musician--who had happened to see them arrive, and, anticipating trouble,
had been watching unperceived, hurried to the scene of the catastrophe.

"I knowed they was a-goin' to do it," he said, "the 'inge bein' in a bad way already. It's
lucky there was a policeman 'andy. I said you'd 'ave the law of 'em."

"But I don't want the law of them," I protested.

"Well, they're going to pay for a new 'inge any'ow."

"Rather hard luck on them, isn't it? I can't make them do that."

"Don't you worry your 'ead, Sir," said the gardener. "It don't come out of their pocket. All
these I-talians is run by one man. Millionaire, so they tells me. Any'ow, it's settled now."

"Well, perhaps it'll teach them to be more careful."

"I 'ope not, Sir," said the gardener. "'Ave another one or two of 'em in 'ere, and we'll get
the gate so as it won't bang."

       *       *       *       *       *

SCIENCE FOR THE YOUNG.

"Aunt Phemie" in The Globe:--

    "A hen is a bird and not an animal."

This official statement will come as a great surprise to all our feathered friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "He no longer on his return would proclaim to his brother that he
    had beaten old Major Waggett (his especial foe) by two up and three
    to play."--Methuen's Annual.

And why not? Because his brother had just bought a shilling book called "Golf for the Beginner."
However, he could still tell his Aunt Lavinia, who knew no better.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: FOR FRIENDSHIP AND HONOUR. House crowded from floor to topmost range of Strangers'
Gallery. LANSDOWNE, "BOBS," GEORGE CURZON and other Peers looked on and listened. Amongst them
LORD CHIEF JUSTICE for first time obtained view of House from novel point of vantage.

Owing to spread of complications, supply of Ambassadors accustomed to repair to Diplomatic
Gallery restricted. No room for Germany to-day. Absent, too, the popular figure of Austro-Hungarian
Ambassador, familiar these many years in London Society. Russia, Spain, Sweden and Greece were
there in the persons of their representatives; and Belgium, conscious that words about to be
uttered were big with her fate.

The sight they looked down upon was strange and moving. Setting of scene worthy of drama which
finds no full parallel in world's history. Keen eyes accustomed to study potentialities of
nations discerned in the gathering a new portentous fact. A week ago to-day political parties
in House of Commons preserved customary attitude of hostility. Across the floor they snapped
at each other distrust and dislike. Long-brooding revolt of armed forces in Ireland had leaped
into flame. Mob and military had come to blows. Victims of the affray lay dead in the streets
of Dublin. In the House rancour between Unionists and Home Rulers increasingly bitter.

Here was opportunity for loyal and trusted friend on the Continent to play long-planned game.
England's difficulty was Germany's opportunity. Swiftly, unscrupulously, taken advantage of.

Foreign Representatives to-day beheld a startling transformation. Party lines obliterated.
LEADER OF THE OPPOSITION, whose conduct throughout crisis has been splendidly patriotic, rallied
his forces to the side of Ministers.

"Whatever steps they think it necessary to take for the honour and security of this country,"
he said amid burst of general cheering, "they can rely upon the unhesitating support of the
Opposition."

This attitude, in full accordance with highest tradition of British Party politics, not unexpected.
Glad surprise followed when JOHN REDMOND assured the Government they might forthwith withdraw
from Ireland every man of their troops.

"The coasts of Ireland," he added, "will be defended from foreign invasion by our armed sons.
For this purpose Nationalist Catholics in the South will be only too glad to join hands with
armed Protestant Ulstermen in the North."

Illustration: IN A JUST CAUSE. (Sir EDWARD GREY.)

"The last time I saw rows of chairs brought in and set down on floor of the House for convenience
of Members who could not find room elsewhere," mused the MEMBER FOR SARK, looking on from one
of the side galleries, "was in 1886, when GLADSTONE introduced his first Home Rule Bill. Twelve
months earlier, under guidance of Land League, Ireland was in a parlous state. Coercion Act
in full force. Jails thronged with patriots convicted under its rigorous clauses. Still there
were left at liberty enough to maim cattle and shoot at landlords. If Germany had happened
to step in at that epoch it would have been a perilous time for England. The House of Commons
after many years' hesitation has offered to bestow Home Rule upon Ireland and this is Ireland's
first articulate response. Her Nationalists range themselves with Ulster by the side of Great
Britain threatened by a foreign foe."

Business done.--FOREIGN SECRETARY, amid prolonged cheers, announces that England means to stand
by France in the coming war, and will fulfil her Treaty obligations to Belgium.

Tuesday.--Rising from Treasury Bench PREMIER walked down House as if he were about to leave
it by glass door. Reaching the Bar he halted and turned about to face crowded benches watching
him with quickened anxiety. Grave events have within the last few days made him the Herald
of War. What might be this new missive he held in his hand?

"A message from HIS MAJESTY," he said, "signed by his own hand."

Advancing to Table he handed document to the Clerk who passed it on to SPEAKER. All heads were
bared as Message was read. It announced that Proclamation would forthwith issue mobilising
the Regular Army and embodying Territorial Forces.

This the significant supplement to statement made by PREMIER immediately on SPEAKER taking
the Chair. It told how telegram had that morning been sent to German Government demanding assurance
of maintenance of Belgian neutrality.

"We have asked," said the PREMIER as quietly as if he were mentioning request for early reply
to a dinner invitation, "that a satisfactory answer shall be given before midnight."

House knew what that meant. On the stroke of midnight Great Britain and Germany would be at war.

A cheer almost fierce in its intensity approved the epoch-making challenge. The House knew
that England's hands were clean; that she was spotlessly free from responsibility for the slaughter
and sorrow, the destruction of prosperous cities, the devastation of fruitful lands, the breaking-up
of Empires, that might follow on Germany's final jack-booting of the emissary of peace.

Since the danger-signal was flung out by thrusting to the front the puppet figure of aged AUSTRIAN
EMPEROR making ponderous attack on little Servia, EDWARD GREY, representing a Ministry supported
by a loyal Parliament and a united Kingdom, has night and day been tireless in effort to avert
war. If yielded to, such interference would be fatal to plans, diligently elaborated in the
dark over a period of months, probably a full year, by our old friend and frequent guest, the
GERMAN EMPEROR.

Accordingly, after maintaining till last moment favourite disguise of peacemaker "on easy terms
with Heaven," WILLIAM, innocent sufferer by "the menace of France," throws aside the cloak.

House of Commons' immediate response was to pass in five minutes all outstanding votes for
Army, Navy and Civil Services amounting to £104,642,055.

Business done.--PREMIER announces dispatch of ultimatum to Berlin and imperative demand for
answer before midnight.

Wednesday.--Benches less crowded than hitherto during week of tumultuous interest. Explanation
forthcoming in fact that something like a hundred Members belonging to Territorial Service
have buckled on their armour and responded to call of mobilisation.

PREMIER'S announcement that "since eleven o'clock last night a state of war has existed between
Germany and ourselves" hailed with deep-throated cheer. Its volume nothing compared with that
which burst forth when he concluded statement with casual remark that to-morrow he will move
a Vote of Credit for one hundred millions sterling. Had he mentioned the sum as an instalment
paid in advance by Germany on account of war indemnity House couldn't have been more jubilant.

BYLES of Bradford uneasy in regard to Bill introduced by HOME SECRETARY authorising imposition
of restrictions upon aliens in time of war or great emergency. Thinks it might cause inconvenience
to worthy persons. Otherwise Government receive unanimous support for various legislative proposals
rendered necessary by state of war.

CHANCELLOR OF EXCHEQUER reports conclusions arrived at in conference of leading bankers and
manufacturers met at the Treasury to consider best way of grappling with unprecedented financial
situation created by events of past fortnight. Happy thought to include in invitation his predecessor
at the Treasury. In accordance with patriotic spirit obliterating party animosity, SON AUSTEN
promptly accepted invitation. Gives valuable assistance to LLOYD GEORGE in recommending proposals
to appreciative House.

In short, whatever may be happening in Belgium or the North Sea, Millennium reigns at Westminster.

Business done.--Many Bills advanced by various stages.

Thursday.--In moving Vote of Credit for one hundred million sterling PREMIER wholesomely lets
himself go in comment on the "infamous proposal" of Germany that for a mess of pottage (extremely
thin) England should betray her ally, France. Crowded House loudly sympathised with righteous
indignation.

Fresh burst of cheering when he pays finely phrased tribute to EDWARD GREY, as the "Peacemaker
of Europe."

Captain Lord DALRYMPLE of the Scots Guards lends opportune gleam of martial splendour to bench
where he sits arrayed in khaki uniform that has seen service in the Boer War. The PREMIER'S
eye catching a glimpse of it, he with great presence of mind asked for authority to strengthen
the army by an additional half-million of men.

In its present mood the House denies him nothing.

Business done.--Vote of Credit for £100,000,000 granted with both hands.

Monday, Aug. 10.--House adjourned till Tuesday the 25th.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "ONE TOUCH OF POTSDAM...."

Sir EDWARD CARSON. "A marvellous diplomatist, this German KAISER."

Mr. JOHN REDMOND. "Yes, he's made comrades of us when everybody else had failed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Mad Dog of Europe.

    GOLDSMITH.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS.

THE PROPOSAL TO DECREASE THEIR SIZE TO THE EDITOR Of 'THE TIMES.'"

    The Times.

And to increase it, we hope, to Mr. CHESTERTON.

(Concluded.)

[SYNOPSIS OF PRECEDING INSTALMENT:--Ralph Wonderson, the famous athlete, while on a mountaineering
expedition in Switzerland, encounters Lady Margaret Tamerton, whom he has not seen since childhood.
With her are her brother, Lord Tamerton; her cousin, Sir Ernest Scrivener; and three Swiss
guides. They combine to make an ascent of the Wetterhorn under Ralph's leadership. Early in
the climb Ralph discovers that Sir Ernest Scrivener is none other than his own mortal foe,
Marmaduke Moorsdyke. A perilous traverse of a glacier has to be undertaken. All cross in safety
except Sir Ernest, who makes imprudent remark which causes a line of overhanging séracs to
collapse upon him and sweep him down the glacier. Ralph dives unhesitatingly to the rescue
of his deadliest foe.]

Rather than face a second traverse of the awful glacier the remaining members of the party
continued the ascent. With shaken nerves they pressed on to the best of their ability, but
it was nearly dark when they at length reached the summit, hoping to find another and easier
route to the foot.

But luck was against them. A devastating blizzard enveloped them, and they lay huddled together
behind a rock, chilled to the bone by the driving particles of ice and snow.

"There is no escape," said Lord Tamerton mournfully to his sister, Lady Margaret. "We must
prepare to meet our deaths like true mountaineers."

"True fiddlesticks!" replied Lady Margaret with spirit. "Ralph will come back to us."

"Do you love him, Madge?" asked her brother.

"Yes," she replied simply.

"Then he will surely come back."

