We resume the illustration of these curious structures with two specimens of interesting architectural
character, and memorable association with our early history. The first is Neville's Cross,
at Beaurepaire (or Bear Park, as it is now called), about two miles north-west from Durham.
Here David II., King of Scots, encamped with his army before the celebrated battle of Red Hills,
or Neville's Cross, as it was afterwards termed, from the above elegant stone cross, erected
to record the victory by Lord Ralph Neville. The English sovereign, Edward III., had just achieved
the glorious conquest of Crecy; and the Scottish king judged this a fit opportunity for his
invasion. However, "the great northern barons of England, Percy and Neville, Musgrave, Scope,
and Hastings, assembled their forces in numbers sufficient to show that, though the conqueror
of Crecy, with his victorious army, was absent in France, there were Englishmen enough left
at home to protect the frontiers of his kingdom from violation. The Archbishops of Canterbury
and York, the prelates of Durham, Carlisle, and Lincoln, sent their retainers, and attended
the rendezvous in person, to add religious enthusiasm to the patriotic zeal of the barons.
Ten thousand soldiers, who had been sent over to Calais to reinforce Edward III.'s army, were
countermanded in this exigency, and added to the northern army.[7]"

The battle, which was fought October 17, 1346, lasted only three hours, but was uncommonly
destructive. The English archers, who were in front, were at first thrown into confusion, and
driven back; but being reinforced by a body of horse, repulsed their opponents, and the engagement
soon became general. The Scottish army was entirely defeated, and the king himself made prisoner;
though previous to the fight he is said to have regarded the English with contempt, and as
a raw and undisciplined host, by no means competent to resist the power of his more hardy veterans.

"Amid repeated charges, and the most dispiriting slaughter by the continuous discharge of the
English arrows, David showed that he had the courage, though not the talents, of his father
(Robert Bruce). He was twice severely wounded with arrows, but continued to encourage to the
last the few of his peers and officers who were still fighting around him."[8] He scorned to
ask quarter, and was taken alive with difficulty. Rymer says, "The Scotch king, though he had
two spears hanging in his body, his leg desperately wounded, and being disarmed, his sword
having been beaten out of his hand, disdained captivity, and provoked the English by opprobrious
language to kill him. When John Copeland, who was governor of Roxborough Castle, advised him
to yield, he struck him on the face with his gauntlet so fiercely, that he knocked out two
of his teeth. Copeland conveyed him out of the field as his prisoner. Upon Copeland's refusing
to deliver up his royal captive to the queen (Philippa), who stayed at Newcastle during the
battle, the king sent for him to Calais, where he excused his refusal so handsomely, that the
king sent him back with a reward of 500l. a year in lands, where he himself should choose it,
near his own dwelling, and made him a knight banneret."[9]

Hume states Philippa to have assembled a body of little more than 12,000 men, and to have rode
through the ranks of her army, exhorting every man to do his duty, and to take revenge on these
barbarous ravagers. These indeed were bright days of chivalry and gallantry.

"The ground whereon the battle was fought," say the topographers of the county,[10] "is about
one mile west from Durham; it is hilly, and in some parts very steep, particularly towards
the river. Near it, in a deep vale, is a small mount, or hillock, called the Maiden's Bower,
on which the holy Corporex Cloth, wherewith St. Cuthbert covered the chalice when he used to
say mass, was displayed on the point of a spear, by the monks of Durham, who, when the victory
was obtained, gave notice by signal to their brethren stationed on the great tower of the Cathedral,
who immediately proclaimed it to the inhabitants of the city, by singing Te Deum. From that
period the victory was annually commemorated in a similar manner by the choristers, till the
occurrence of the Civil Wars, when the custom was discontinued; but again revived on the Restoration,"
and observed till nearly the close of the last century.

The site of the Cross is by the road-side: it was defaced and broken down in the year 1589.
Its pristine beauty is thus minutely described in Davis's Rights and Monuments: "On the west
side of the city of Durham, where two roads pass each other, a most famous and elegant cross
of stone work was erected to the honour of God, &c. at the sole cost of Ralph, Lord Neville,
which cross had seven steps about it, every way squared to the socket wherein the stalk of
the cross stood, which socket was fastened to a large square stone; the sole, or bottom stone
being of a great thickness, viz. a yard and a half every way: this stone was the eighth step.
The stalk of the cross was in length three yards and a half up to the boss, having eight sides
all of one piece; from the socket it was fixed into the boss above, into which boss the stalk
was deeply soldered with lead. In the midst of the stalk, in every second square, was the Neville's
cross; a saltire in a scutcheon, being Lord Neville's arms, finely cut; and, at every corner
of the socket, was a picture of one of the four Evangelists, finely set forth and carved. The
boss at the top of the stalk was an octangular stone, finely cut and bordered, and most curiously
wrought; and in every square of the nether side thereof was Neville's Cross, in one square,
and the bull's head in the next, so in the same reciprocal order about the boss. On the top
of the boss was a stalk of stone, (being a cross a little higher than the rest,) whereon was
cut, on both sides of the stalk, the picture of our Saviour Christ, crucified; the picture
of the Blessed Virgin on one side, and St. John the Evangelist on the other; both standing
on the top of the boss. All which pictures were most artificially wrought together, and finely
carved out of one entire stone; some parts thereof, though carved work, both on the east and
west sides, with a cover of stone likewise over their heads, being all most finely and curiously
wrought together out of the same hollow stone, which cover had a covering of lead."

The second specimen (see the Cut) stands by the side of the highway over Hedgeley Moor, in
the adjoining county of Northumberland. This Cross is a record of the War of the Roses. His
dying words are stated to have been, "I have saved the bird in my breast:" meaning his faith
to his party. The memorial is a square stone pillar, embossed with the arms of Percy and Lucy:
they are nearly effaced by time, though the personal valour of the hero is written in the less
perishable page of history.

The Nevilles are distinguished personages in the pages of the historians of the North. In Durham
they have left a lasting memorial of their magnificence in Raby Castle, the principal founder
of which was John de Neville, Earl of Westmoreland; who, in 1379, obtained a license to castellate
his manor of Raby; though a part of the structure appears to have been of more ancient date.
Leland speaks of it in his time as "the largest castle of lodgings in all the north country."
It remains to this day the most perfect castellated mansion, or, more strictly, castle, in
the kingdom, and its "hall" eclipses even the chivalrous splendour of Windsor: here 700 knights,
who held of the Nevilles, are said to have been entertained at one time. The whole establishment
is maintained with much of the hospitable glories of the olden time by the present distinguished
possessor of Raby, the Marquess of Cleveland.

    [6] See also pages 113 and 329 of the present volume.

    [7] Hist. Scot. By Sir W. Scott, Bt., vol. i, p. 197.

    [8] Ibid. p. 199.

    [9] Faedera, tom. v. p. 542.

    [10] Messrs Britton and Brayley--Beauties of England and Wales,
         vol. v. p. 199.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINTER EXHIBITION OF PICTURES, AT THE SUFFOLK-STREET GALLERY.

(Concluded from page 231.)

144. Landscape and Figures. The first by Gainsborough; the latter by Morland.

145. The Body of Harold discovered by Swanachal and two Monks, the morning after the Battle
of Hastings. A.J. Woolmer. A picture of some, and not undeserved, distinction in a previous
exhibition.

150. Mr. King and Mrs. Jordan in the "Country Girl." R. Smirke, R.A. The drawing is easy and
natural, but the colouring appears to us deficient in tone and breadth.

153. View of the River Severn near the New Passage House. Nasmyth. A delightful scene in what
we may call the artist's best, or crisp style.

157. Puppy and Frog. E. Landseer, R.A. In the most vigorous style of our best animal painter.

163. A State Quarry. De Loutherbourg.

165--167. Portraits of Worlidge and Mortimer. Painted by themselves.

172. Villa of Maecenas. One of Wilson's most celebrated compositions, of classic fame.

181. Master's Out, "The Disappointed Dinner Party." R.W. Buss. A scene of cockney mortification
humorously treated.--An unlucky Londoner and his tawdrily-dressed wife, appeared to have toiled
up the hill, with their family of four children, to a friend's cottage, the door of which is
opened by an old housekeeper, with "Master's out," while the host himself is peeping over the
parlour window-blind at the disappointment of his would-be visitors. The annoyance of the husband
at the inhospitable answer, and the fatigue of his fine wife, are cleverly managed; while the
mischievous pranks of the urchin family among the borders of the flower-garden remind us of
the pleasant "Inconveniences of a Convenient Distance." The colouring is most objectionable;
though the flowers and fine clothes are very abundant.

194. Falls of Niagara. Wilson. A sublime picture of this terrific wonder of the world.

196. Erzelin Bracciaferro musing over Meduna, slain by him for disloyalty during his absence
in the Holy Land. Fuseli. A composition of touching melancholy, such as none but a master-mind
could approach.

199. The late R.W. Elliston, Esq. One of Harlow's best portraits: the likeness is admirable,
and the tone well accords with Elliston's unguent, supple expression.

204. Portrait of Dr. Wardrope. Raeburn. This is one of the artist's finest productions: it
is clever, manly, and vigorous--painting to the life, without the flattering unction of varnished
canvass. The fine, broad, bold features of the sitter were excellently adapted to the artist's
peculiar powers.

205. Portrait of Thomson, the Poet. Hogarth. The well-known picture. How fond poets of the
last century were of their dishabille in portraits: they had their day as well as nightcaps.

217. Johnny Gilpin. Stothard. This lively composition is well known, as it deserves to be;
but it may not so well be remembered that the popularity of John Gilpin was founded by a clever
lecturer, who recited the "tale in verse" as part of his entertainment. (See page 367.) What
would an audience of the present day say to such puerility; though it would be certainly more
rational than people listening to a French play, or an Italian or German opera, not a line
of which they understand.

229. Portrait of R.B. Sheridan. The well-known picture, by Reynolds, whence is engraved the
Frontispiece to Moore's Life of the Statesman and Dramatist. Here is the "man himsel," in the
formal cut blue dress-coat and white waistcoat of the last century. How much it is to be regretted
that Sheridan with such fine eyes had so little foresight. There is in the gallery a younger
portrait of him, in a stage or masquerade dress, which is unworthy of comparison with the preceding.

231. Scene in Covent Garden Market. One of the best views of the old place, by Hogarth; and
one of the last sketches before the recent improvements, will he found in The Mirror, vol.
xiii. p. 121. By the way, the pillar and ball, which stood in the centre of the square, and
are seen in the present picture, were long in the garden of John Kemble, in Great Russell-street,
Bloomshury.

243. Portrait of the late Mr. Holcroft. Dawe. In this early performance of the artist, we in
vain seek for the "best looks" of the sitter: such as the painter threw into his portraits
of crowned heads.

248. The Happy Marriage. An unfinished picture by Hogarth; yet how beautifully is some of the
distant grouping made out;--what life and reality too in the figures, and the whole composition,
though seen, as it were, through a mist.

249. Study of a Head from Nature, painted by lamp-light. Harlow. A curious vagary of genius.

258. Daughter of Sir Peter Lely. Lely. We take this to be the oldest picture in the gallery.
Lely has been dead upwards of a century and a half.

263. One of Lawrence's Portraits of himself.

286. Sir John Falstaff at Gad's Hill. T. Stothard, R.A. The figure has not the fleshy rotundity
of the Falstaff of Shakspeare; he is like a half-stuffed actor in the part.

298. Portrait of the late King when Prince of Wales. Lawrence. The features at this period
were remarkably handsome; and considering the influence of pre-eminence in birth, the expression
is not over-tinged with hauteur. No persons have their portraits so frequently painted as princes;
and the artist who has the fortune to paint them at all ages, as Lawrence did, must watch their
personal changes with reflective interest, though he may confine them to the tablet of his
memory. What an interval between the youthful vigour of the above portrait of the Prince and
the artist's last, fine whole-length of the King, in dignified ease, on the sofa! Alas! lines
increase in our faces as they do in the imperfect maps of a newly-discovered country.

313 and 228. Two Landscapes, by Lawrence, reminding us how strongly the artist's genius was
fettered by public taste in Kneller's profitable glory of painting "the living."

In the Water-colour Room, are many interesting productions, and some curiosities in their way.
We have Paul Sandby and the quaintly precise Capon beside Glover and Landseer--so that the
drawings are as motley as the paintings. Here also are Lawrence's inimitable chalk portraits
of his present Majesty and the Duke of Wellington, which show us how much true genius can accomplish
in a few lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCHOOL OF PAINTING AT THE BRITISH INSTITUTION.

(From a Correspondent.)

The present school of painting commenced on the 17th of September, and the students, as usual,
have made numerous attempts to copy the inimitable examples of art which have been selected
for their improvement. The selections consist of specimens from the Italian, Flemish, Dutch,
and English schools, and afford ample variety, in style and subject, for the different tastes
of the students. We are sorry to state, however, that only a very few copies can be selected
as possessing a fair resemblance to the superb originals. We proceed to notice those who deserve
the most praise:--

Gainsborough's Milk Girl is a most happy production of the pencil: the figure possesses great
infantile beauty; and the landscape is rural, and in perfect harmony with the subject. This
work has been cleverly copied by Messrs. Sargeant and Lilley in oil, and by Miss Fanny Corbaux
in water-colour.

