No. 237.] SATURDAY, MAY 13. Nimmo                         445

  Popiana, by Harry Leroy Temple                               445

  Hampshire Folk Lore, by Eustace W.
  Jacob                                                        446

  The most curious Book in the World                           446

  Minor Notes:--Baptism, Marriage, and Crowning of
  Geo. III.--Copernicus--First Instance of Bribery amongst
  Members of Parliament--Richard Brinsley Sheridan--Publican's
  Invitation--Bishop Burnet again!--Old Custom preserved in
  Warwickshire--English Diplomacy v. Russian                   447

  QUERIES:--

  Ancient Tenure of Lands, by A. J. Dunkin                     448

  Owen Rowe the Regicide                                       449

  Writings of the Martyr Bradford, by the Rev. A. Townsend     449

  MINOR QUERIES:--Courtney Family--"The Shipwrecked Lovers"--
  Sir John Bingham--Proclamation for making Mustard--Judges
  practising at Bar--Celebrated Wagers--"Pay me tribute, or
  else----"--"A regular Turk"--Benj. Rush--Per Centum Sign--
  Burial Service Tradition--Jean Bart's Descent on Newcastle--
  Madame de Staël--Honoria, Daughter of Lord Denny--Hospital
  of John of Jerusalem--Heiress of Haddon Hall--Monteith--
  Vandyking--Hiel the Bethelite--Earl of Glencairn--Willow
  Bark in Ague--"Perturbabantur," &c.                          450

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Seamen's Tickets--Bruce,
  Robert--Coronation Custom--William Warner--"Isle of
  Beauty"--Edmund Lodge--King John                             452

  REPLIES:--

  Has Execution by Hanging been survived? by William Bates     453

  Coleridge's Christabel, by C. Mansfield Ingleby              455

  General Whitelocke                                           455

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Gravelly Wax Negatives--
  Photographic Experience                                      456

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Turkish Language--Dr. Edward
  Daniel Clarke's Charts of the Black Sea--Aristotle on living
  Law--Christ's or Cris Cross Row--Titles to the Psalms in
  the Syriac Version--"Old Rowley"--Wooden Effigies--Abbott
  Families                                                     456

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, &c.                                          458

  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                                 458

  Notices to Correspondents                                    459

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. RUSKIN'S NEW WORK.

Now ready, in crown 8vo., with 15 Plates, price 8s. 6d. cloth,

LECTURES ON ARCHITECTURE AND PAINTING. BY JOHN RUSKIN,

    Author of "The Stones of Venice," "Modern Painters," "Seven Lamps of
    Architecture," &c.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 65. Cornhill.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOVERNMENT INSPECTION OF NUNNERIES.

This Day, in fcp. 8vo., price 3s. 6d. (post free, 4s.),

QUICKSANDS ON FOREIGN SHORES! This work, which is the production of a lady, and revised by
a prelate highly distinguished in the world of letters, ought to be in the hands of every Protestant
and Catholic in the kingdom.

BLACKADER & CO., 13. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORELL.--RUSSIA AND ENGLAND, THEIR STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS. By JOHN REYNELL MORELL. 100 pp.,
12mo. sd., price 1s.

WHITTY.--THE GOVERNING CLASSES OF GREAT BRITAIN: POLITICAL PORTRAITS. By EDWARD M. WHITTY.
232 pp., 12mo. sd., price 1s. 6d.

TRÜBNER & CO., 12. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHNSTON'S MAPS of the WAR, engraved from entirely New Drawings, and containing the latest
and most accurate information.

I. THE BLACK SEA, CAUCASUS, CRIMEA, &c., with Large Plans of Sevastopol, and the Positions
of the Ships and Batteries, seen from H.M.S.F. "Retribution." The Bosphorus and Beicos Bay.

II. THE DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES, and adjoining Countries from Vienna to Constantinople, and
Map of CENTRAL EUROPE, from St. Petersburg to Cairo.

III. THE BALTIC SEA and GERMAN OCEAN, with enlarged Plans of Cronstadt, Sveaborg, Revel, Port
Baltic, and Gulf of Riga.

Price, coloured. 1s. each, by post, 1s. 4d.; or the Three by Post, 3s. 6d.

    Edinburgh: W. & A. K. JOHNSTON, Geographers and Engravers to the Queen:
    and all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Photographic Pictures, Landscape Camera by Horne & Co.: a new Transit
    Instrument by Troughton & Sims: also Prints and Drawings, and a
    Collection of Paintings, chiefly English Historical Portraits.

Catalogues will be sent on Application (if at a distance, on Receipt of Two Stamps).

       *       *       *       *       *

{438}

NEW WORKS TO BE PUBLISHED IN MAY.

CONTENTS:--Asia Minor, Greece, Turkey, in 1821. The Greek Revolution, Battle of Navarino, and
Establishment of Greek Independence. The War between Russia and Turkey, 1827-1829. France to
the Revolution of 1830, &c.

II.

NARRATIVE of a JOURNEY THROUGH SYRIA AND PALESTINE IN 1851 and 1852. By LIEUTENANT VAN DE VELDE,
late of the Dutch Royal Navy. In 2 vols. 8vo., with Map of the Author's Route, Plan of Jerusalem,
and other Illustrations.

III.

HISTORY OF THE PROPAGATION OF CHRISTIANITY AMONG THE HEATHEN SINCE THE REFORMATION. By the
REV. W. BROWN, M.D., Secretary of the Scottish Missionary Society. Third edition, brought down
to the Present Time, in 3 vols. 8vo.

IV.

THE SECOND VOLUME.

HISTORY OF THE BYZANTINE AND GREEK EMPIRES. By GEORGE FINLAY, ESQ. Containing:

From 1057 to the Storming and Sack of Constantinople by the Crusaders in 1204.

From 1204 to the Siege and Capture of Constantinople by the Turks under Mohammed in 1453.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now published,

PROFESSOR JOHNSTON'S

CHEMISTRY OF COMMON LIFE. Vol. I. Price 5s. With 57 Illustrations, engraved on Wood by BRANSTON,
&c. To be completed in Two Volumes.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK SEA.

The Fourth Edition of MR. OLIPHANT'S

RUSSIAN SHORES OF THE BLACK SEA.

In octavo, with 34 Engravings on Wood, an enlarged Map of the Crimea, and Map of the Author's
Route. Price 14s.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF THE FRENCH PROTESTANT REFUGEES, from the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes. By CHARLES
WEISS, Professor of History at the Lycée Bonaparte. Translated, with the assistance of the
Author, by FREDERIC HARDMAN. Demy 8vo., price 14s.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHYSICAL ATLAS OF NATURAL PHENOMENA.

By ALEXANDER KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., F.R.G.S., F.G.S., &c.

A new and carefully revised Edition, in which subjects not overtaken in the First Edition will
be supplied, and the whole work brought into accordance with the present state of information.
To be completed in Twelve Parts, imperial folio, price 21s. each. Prospectuses may be had of
all Booksellers.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW PIANO MUSIC.--"The celebrated Composer, Theodore Oesten.--It is always with particular
pleasure we direct our attention to those subjects which are interesting to our fairer readers--such,
for instance, as the musical topics of the day. Every fair pianiste is acquainted with the
name of Theodore Oesten; every piano is loaded with his gay and beautiful productions. Who
does not know, or, knowing, does not admire, his 'Valse Elegante?' Who is insensible to his
beautiful interpretation of Küchen's 'Cradle Song' (Schlummerlied), or his very many elegant
transpositions for the pianoforte, as 'Rousseau's Dream,' Beethoven's admired 'Adelaide,' and
his very remarkable arrangement of our glorious National Anthem 'God Save the Queen'--all of
them worthy (and that is not to say a little) of the popular arranger of the charming 'When
the Swallows hasten Home.' The singular merits of Theodore Oesten have not escaped the vigilant
eye of her Majesty's music publishers, the Messrs. Robert Cocks & Co. having secured, as we
are informed, the exclusive copyright of his works for this country."--Vide Globe, 18th April,
1854.

LONDON: 6. NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPMAN'S LIBRARY FOR THE PEOPLE.

THE CATHOLIC SERIES.

UNIFORM, IN POST OCTAVO, CLOTH.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, price 3s. 6d.

CATHOLIC UNION: Essays, towards a Church of the Future, as the Organisation of Philanthropy.
By FRANCIS WILLIAM NEWMAN.

THE SPHERE AND DUTIES OF GOVERNMENT. Translated from the German of BARON WILHELM VON HUMBOLDT.
By JOSEPH COULTHARD, Jun.

London JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPMAN'S LIBRARY FOR THE PEOPLE.

Now ready.

OVER-LEGISLATION. By HERBERT SPENCER. Reprinted, with Additions, from "The Westminster Review."
New Series. No. VII. July, 1853. 8d.

A DEFENCE OF RELIGION. By HENRY W. CROSSKEY. 1s.

THE BOOK OF JOB. By J. A. FROUDE, M.A., late Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford. Reprinted from
"The Westminster Review." New Series. No. VIII. October, 1853. 8d.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just ready.

ZENO: a Tale of the Italian War, and other Poems. By JAMES D. HORROCKS. Fcap. 8vo., cloth. 5s.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a few days, price 2s. 6d.

ULTIMA THULE or, Thoughts suggested by a Residence in New Zealand. By THOMAS CHOLMONDELEY.

A HISTORY OF THE SESSION 1852-3, a Parliamentary Retrospect. Fcap. 8vo., cloth, 1s. 6d.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW.--NEW SERIES. No. X. APRIL, 1854.

              CONTENTS:
  1. Results of the Census of 1851.
  2. Manners and Fashion.
  3. Archbishop Whately on Christianity.
  4. Criminal Legislation and Prison Discipline.
  5. Lord Campbell as a Writer of History.
  6. Schamyl, the Prophet-Warrior of the Caucasus.
  7. Thomas De Quincey and his Works.
  8. The Balance of Power in Europe.

Cotemporary Literature:--§ 1. Theology, Philosophy, and Politics. § 2 Science. § 3. Classics
and Philology. § 4. History, Biography, Voyages, and Travels. § 5. Belles Lettres. § 6. Art.

    "This number is the most equal and most readable of the New
    Series."--Economist.

    "The Westminster Review seems to be in a rising way.... Of the eight
    articles four are of immediate interest."--Daily News.

    "The paper on cotemporary literature concludes a volume of more than
    average interest."--Oxford Chronicle.

    "Schamyl, a paper of remarkable interest."--Commonwealth.

London: JOHN CHAPMAN, 142. Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

{439}

LONDON, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1854.

Notes.

"SHAKSPEARE'S RIME WHICH HE MADE AT THE MYTRE." One of the most curious is a song in five seven-line stanzas,
    thus headed 'Shakspeare's rime, which he made at the Mytre in Fleete
    Streete.' It begins 'From the rich Lavinian shore;' and some few of the
    lines were published by Playford, and set as a catch."

In Mr. Thoms' Anecdotes and Traditions (published by the Camden Society) is a story of the
celebrated Dr. John Wilson, to which the editor has appended an interesting note, adding:

    "Wilson was the composer of a glee for three voices, published in
    Playford's Musical Companion, where the words are attributed to
    Shakspeare; and the supposition that they were really written by him
    having been converted into a certainty, by their appearing with
    Shakspeare's name to them in the MS. Collection of Poetry, copied prior
    to 1631 by Richard Jackson," &c.

Mr. Thoms then prints the "rime," not inappropriately calling it "A Song for Autolycus," with
this remark:

    "My late respected friend Mr. Douce once told me, that some musical
    friend at Chichester, I think the organist, possessed a copy of this
    song, with an additional verse."

Mr. Thoms' version of "Shakspeare's Rime" was inserted (probably by our worthy Editor himself?)
in the first volume of "N. & Q." (p. 23.) with a view of obtaining the additional stanza; a
desideratum which I am now enabled to supply. The following copy has two additional stanzas,
and is transcribed from a MS. Collection of Songs, with the music, written in the early part
of the reign of James I. The MS. was formerly in the possession of Mr. J. S. Smith, the learned
editor of Musica Antiqua.

              I.

 "From the fair Lavinian shore,
  I your markets come to store;
  Marvel not, I thus far dwell,
  And hither bring my wares to sell;
  Such is the sacred hunger of gold.
    Then come to my pack,
      While I cry,
    What d'ye lack,
      What d'ye buy?
  For here it is to be sold.

              II.

 "I have beauty, honour, grace,
  Virtue, favour, time and space,
  And what else thou wouldst request,
  E'en the thing thou likest best;
  First, let me have but a touch of thy gold,
    Then come too lad,
      Thou shalt have
    What thy dad
      Never gave;
  For here it is to be sold.

              III.

 "Though thy gentry be but young,
  As the flow'r that this day sprung,
  And thy father thee before,
  Never arms nor scutcheon bore;
  First let me have but a catch of thy gold,
    Then, though thou be an ass,
      By this light
    Thou shalt pass
      For a knight;
  For here it is to be sold.

              IV.

              V.

 "Madam, come see what you lack?
  Here's complexion in my pack;
  White and red you may have in this place,
  To hide an old ill-wrinkled face:
  First, let me have but a catch of thy gold,
    Then thou shalt seem,
    Like a wench of fifteen,
  Although you be threescore and ten years old."

That this song enjoyed extensive popularity in the latter half of the seventeenth century,
is evinced by the number of printed copies. It is found in Playford's Select Ayres and Dialogues,
1659; in Dr. Wilson's Cheerfull Ayres and Ballads, 1660; in Playford's Catch that Catch Can,
1667; and in many subsequent collections of a similar kind. But in none of these works is the
name of the writer of the words given; and all the copies are deficient of the third and fourth
stanzas. The point of the satire conveyed in these stanzas was lost after the reign of James
I., which may account for their omission.

"Shakspeare's rime," being associated with Wilson's music, is of some importance towards settling
the point of authorship. In 1846 I printed a little pamphlet with the following title:

    "Who was Jack Wilson, the Singer of Shakspeare's Stage? An Attempt to
    prove the Identity of this {440} Person with John Wilson, Doctor of
    Musick, in the University of Oxford, A.D. 1644."

It would be out of place here to dwell upon this publication, suffice it to say, that all the
information I have since collected, tends to confirm the hypothesis advanced. One extract from
this brochure will show the connexion that existed between Shakspeare and Wilson:

    "Wilson was the composer of four other Shakspearian lyrics, a fact
    unknown to Mr. Collier, when he wrote the article in the Shakspeare
    Papers: 'Where the bee sucks,' 'Full fathom five,' 'Lawn as white as
    driven snow,' and 'From the fair Lavinian shore.' They are all printed
    in the author's Cheerfull Ayres or Ballads, Oxford, 1660. We have now
    evidence from this work, that Wilson was the original composer of the
    music to one of Shakspeare's plays. He says in his preface, 'some of
    these ayres were originally composed by those whose names are affixed
    to them, but are here placed as being new set by the author of the
    rest. The two songs, 'Where the bee sucks,' and 'Full fathom five,'
    have appended to them the name of 'R. Johnson,' who, upon this
    evidence, we may undoubtedly conclude was the original composer of
    the music in the play of the Tempest. The song 'Lawn as white as
    driven snow,' from the Winter's Tale, has the name of 'John Wilson'
    attached to it, from which it is equally certain that he was its
    original composer. In my own mind, the circumstances connected with
    the Shakspearian lyrics in this book are almost conclusive as to the
    identity of John Wilson the composer with John Wilson the singer.
    Unless the composer had been intimately acquainted with the theatre of
    Shakspeare's day, it is not likely that he would have remembered, so
    long after, the name of one of its composers. Nor is it likely, being
    so well acquainted with the original composers of the Shakspearian
    drama, and so anxious as he appears to have been to do justice to their
    memory, that he would have omitted informing us, who was the original
    composer of the song in the Winter's Tale, had it been any other than
    himself. The Winter's Tale was not produced before 1610 or 1611, at
    which period Wilson was sixteen or seventeen years old, an age quite
    ripe enough for the production of the song in question."

A reviewer of my little publication in the Athenæum (Nov. 8, 1846) makes the following remark:

    "Let us observe, in conclusion, that Dr. Rimbault is better read in
    Jack Wilson than Ben Jonson, or we should never have seen Mr.
    Shakspeare's 'Rime' at the 'Mitre,' in Fleet Street, seriously referred
    to as a genuine composition. It is a mere clumsy adaptation, from Ben's
    interesting epigram 'Inviting a Friend to Supper.'"

It is really too bad to be charged with ignorance unjustly. I have on my shelves the works
of glorious Ben, three times over: in folio 1616-31; in folio, 1692; and in nine volumes octave
(Gifford's edition), 1816; all of which I will freely give to the "reviewer," if he can prove
that one line of "Shakspeare's Rime at the Mytre" is taken from the aforesaid epigram.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUS, THE SCOTTISH PSALMIST, PROVOST OF ETON COLLEGE: AND HIS WILL.

Looking over some back Numbers of "N. & Q.," I see an inquiry (Vol. v., p. 81.) after Francis
Rous. G. N. will find an account of him in Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary, gathered out
of Wood's Athenæ; Noble's Memoir of Cromwell, vol. i. {441} p. 409; Lysons' Environs of London,
vol. ii.; Granger, vol. iii.

In his will, a copy of which lies before me, proved Feb. 10, 1658, he speaks of "a youth in
Scotland, his grandson," and "as the heir of idleness abhorring to give him an estate, but
wishing he might be a useful member of Christ and the Commonwealth, he desires his executors
to give him 50l. a year so long as he shall be in preparation towards a profession, and as
many of his books as may be fit for him."

I shall be much obliged if any correspondent can find out anything farther about the said "youth
in Scotland?"

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Clyst St. George.

P.S.--Why should not "N. & Q." be the publisher of any curious old wills, which might interest
the general reader? Allow me to suggest a corner for Testamenta Vestusta. I will begin by sending
a copy of the will of Francis Rous.

    This my last Will and Testament, I, Francis Rous,   Provost of Eaton
    College, wrote and made   March 18th, 1657.

    Forasmuch as to put houses in order before our departure is pleasing to
    the God of order, I do dispose of my affairs and estates in manner
    following:

    There is a youth in Scotland concerning whom (because they call him my
    grandson) it is perchance expected that I should do some great matters
    for him; but his father marrying against my will and prohibition, and
    giving me an absolute discharge before the marriage under his hand, not
    to expect anything from me if he did marry contrary to my prohibition,
    I hold myself discharged from the father, and consequently from the son
    of that father, the son having no interest in me but by the father. And
    I hold it a good example, for the benefitt of the Commonwealth, that
    matters of discouragement should be put upon such marriages, being
    assured that their parents will not disinheritt or lessen them,
    especially if they have but one son, and that which Solomon saith is to
    be considered--an understanding servant shall have rule over a son that
    maketh ashamed, and both that[1], and his son, and his son in Scotland
    have both made ashamed, the one in his match, the other by a sad
    mischief of dangerous consequence and fatal; and though his mother is
    bound to maintain him, yet because I wish he might be a useful member
    of Christ and the Commonwealth, towards which I think she is not well
    able to give him an answerable education, I have in this my will taken
    course for a competent maintenance for him towards a profession, and in
    it utterly abhorring to give him an estate, as the heir of idleness.
    Wherefore to the fore-mentioned purpose, I desire my executor to give
    him 50l. a year, so long as he shall be in preparation towards a
    profession, or shall really and seriously be in the practice of it; and
    as many of my books as may be fitt for him in the profession he shall
    undertake, and shall not be given to Pembroke College, I desire my
    executor to give unto him: but if he, or a guardian, or any other,
    shall sue or implead, or call my executor into question to his trouble
    or cost, I leave it to my executor's choice whether he will pay his
    maintenance of 50l. per annum, or any part of it.

    I give to Mr. Ellford, my pastor at Acton, 20l. I give 5l. per annum
    for ever to be disposed of in buying Bibles, catechisms, or for
    encouraging poor children to learn to read and answer in catechising in
    the parish of Dittisham, in the county of Devon, the place of my
    nativity and baptism, which sum shall be bestowed according to the
    direction of the minister there for the time being; and to the present
    minister I give 20l. I give to the poor of Acton each five shillings; I
    give to the poor of Westminster, Kensington, Knightsbridge, half a
    year's rent of that which they used to receive. I give Mr. Bartlett of
    Windsor 20l. I appoint 100l. to be lent to my nephew William Rous,
    which he must pay by 10l. a year to my nephew Richard Rous, his son. I
    give Thomas Rous, of King's College, 6l. for two years. I give Eliz.
    Rous, of Penrose in Cornwall, 20l. I give Anthony Rous at Eaton School,
    5l. a year for seven years. I give to my niece Rudyard, and her sisters
    Skelton and Dorothy, each 20l. I give to Margaret Baker 10l. I give to
    a poor Xtian woman in Dartmouth, Mrs. Adams, 10l. To Robert Needler I
    give a black suit and cloak; the like to William Grantham and 10l. To
    my niece Portman, now in my house, I give 50l. To my other friends of
    more ability, I leave it to my executor to give such memorials as he
    shall think fitt. To the poor of Eaton I give 20l. To each of my
    servants that are with me at any decease I give black suits and 5l.;
    and to Peter Fluellen, who is now endeavouring to get a place of
    removal, 10l. I give to Thomas Rolle of Eaton, and Robert Yard, each
    10l. I give to Christian, now the wife of Mr. Johnson, 20l. I give to
    the young Winnington of Eaton, 10l. I give 40l. per annum out of the
    Parsonage or Tythe of Great Brookeham in Surrey, to maintain two
    schollars in Pembroke College in Oxford. I also give 20l. per annum
    unto one schollar more in the same college, out of a tenement in the
    Manor of Wootton in Cornwall, during two lives of two Bigfords, and
    after their decease out of a tenement of mine in Cowkberry, in Devon,
    for ever. The scholars to be chosen are to be poor, {442} not having
    10l. a year, apt to learning, and to be of the posterity of myself or
    my brother Robert, Richard, or Arthur Rous, or of my sister Nicholl, or
    my sister Upton; and if no such shall be tendered, then they are to be
    chosen out of the two highest forms in Eaton College. I give power to
    my executor to choose them during his life, and desire him, with the
    advice of my dear kinsman, Mr. Ambrose Upton, Prebend of Xt Church in
    Oxford, to settle and order all things for the sure and usefull
    continuance of their allowances to schollars so qualified as before and
    of good conversation, and that they study divinity, and some time
    before they be Batchelors of Arts, they make good proof of their
    studying divinity, and that they continued in their several places but
    seven years, and then others to be chosen in their rooms. What shall
    be above 40l. per annum arising out of the tythe of Brookham declaro,
    and above all rates and taxes, I give unto the minister of that parish;
    and I give the parsonage to my respected kinsman Samuel Rous, Esq., of
    that parish, yet so, that if he die before my executor, my executor
    shall present during his life, and after it shall go to the heirs of
    the said Samuel Rous, it being to be hoped that their dwelling be there
    they will be carefull for their own souls. I do make and constitute my
    dear kinsman Anthony Rous, Esq., of Wootton, in the county of Cornwall,
    commonly called or known by the name of Colonel Rous, to be my whole
    and sole executor. And I give and bequeath to him all my lands,
    tenements, my interest in the parsonage of Great Brookham in Surrey,
    all my leases, chattels, plate, money, and other goodly whatsoever, as
    also my copyholds, which shall, according to custom, be made over to
    him in Acton or Branford, hoping that he will faithfully dispose them
    according to my will and intention made known to him; and I give him
    100l., and lend him 200l. more for seven years, which he may bestow in
    defence of himself as to law suits, if any be brought as concerning my
    estate, or if there shall be none to bestow, in some charitable use as
    he shall think fitt. I desire my body may be interred and put to rest
    in the chapple of Eaton College, a place that hath my dear affections
    and prayers that it may be a flouring nursery of piety and learning to
    the end of the world. And for a profession of any faith, I refer myself
    to the works which I not long since published in one volume, wherein I
    have professed a right and saving faith, and hope to continue therein
    until faith shall be swallowed up of sight, laying hold of the free
    grace of God in his beloved Son as my only title to eternity, being
    confident that his free grace, which took me up lying in the blood of
    irregeneration, will wash away the guilt of that estate, and all the
    cursed fruits of it by the pretious blood of his Son, and will wash
    away the filth of it by the spirit of his Son, and so present me
    faultless before the presence of God's glory with joy.

  (Signed) FRANCIS ROUS.

    The Right Honorable Francis Rous, Esq., acknowledged this to be his
    last will and testament, the 12th day of April, 1658[2], in the
    presence of me, Abel Borsett, endorsed, upon a paper wherein the
    original will was folded and sealed up, thus, viz., "My last will,
    attested by Mr. Humphreys and Mr. Borsett."

    This will was proved at London the 10th day of February, in the year of
    our Lord God 1658, before the judges for probate of wills and granting
    administrations lawfully authorised, by the oath of Collonell Anthony
    Rouse, Esq., the sole and only executor named in the said will, to whom
    administration of all and singular the goods, chattels, and debts of
    the said deceased was granted and committed.

[Footnote 1: This appears to be an error.]

[Footnote 2: It should doubtless be 1657.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL ENGLISH ROYAL LETTERS TO THE GRAND MASTERS OF MALTA.

(Concluded from Vol. ix., p. 419.)

No. XI. He having purchased some slaves, it has been reported to us that your highness' collector
of customs demanded five pieces of gold of Malta money per head before they could be permitted
to embark, under the title of toll; at which proceeding we were certainly not a little astonished,
it appearing to us a new proceeding, and one contrary to custom, especially it being well known
to us that our neighbours and allies, the Kings of France and Spain, are never accustomed to
pay anything under the title of toll {443} for the slaves which they cause yearly to be transported
from your island.

We therefore beg your highness, by the good and long friendship existing between us, to grant
to us the same privilege in regard to this kind of commerce within the territories of your
highness, as is enjoyed by both our said neighbours and allies, which although it ought to
be conceded to us simply on account of our mutual friendship and our affection towards your
highness and the illustrious Order of Malta, still we shall receive so gratefully, that if
at any time we can do anything to please your highness, we shall be always ready to do it,
with all attention, and most willingly.

In the meantime we heartily recommend your highness and all the members of the illustrious
Order of Malta, as well as all your affairs, to the Divine keeping.

Given from our palace of Westminster on the 12th day of February, in the year of our Lord 1673,
and of our reign the 25th.

  Your Highness' good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XII.

The military order over which your eminence most worthily presides, having always used its
power to render the navigation of the sea safe and peaceable for Christians, we in no way doubt
that our ships of war, armed for the same purpose, will receive from your eminence every office
of friendship. We therefore are desirous of signifying to your eminence by these our letters
that we have sent a squadron of our royal fleet to the Mediterranean sea under the command
of Sir John Narbrough, knight, to look after the safety of navigation and commerce, and to
oppose the enemies of public tranquillity. We therefore amicably beseech your eminence that
if ever the above-named Admiral Narbrough, or any of our ships cruising under his flag, should
arrive at any of your eminence's ports or stations, or in any place subject to the Order of
Malta, that they may be considered and treated as friends and allies, and that they may be
permitted to purchase with their money, and at just prices, and to export provisions and munitions
of war, and whatever they may require, which, on similar occasions, we will abundantly reciprocate
to your eminence and to your most noble Order.

In the mean time we heartily recommend your eminence to the safeguard of the Most High and
Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the last day of November, 1674.

  Your Highness' Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XIII.

Most eminent Prince, our cousin and well-beloved friend--Greeting:

Although we in no way doubt of the sincere readiness of your eminence and of your holy Order
of Malta to do everything which might be known to be expedient for our interests, still we
could not read your eminence's letters under date of 24th March last, in which such readiness
is fully set forth, without the greatest pleasure. Our affection is sharpened and excited by
the mention of the good will of our predecessors, the Kings of Great Britain, evinced in every
age towards your most illustrious Order, which, as your eminence in your said letters so honourably
commemorates, so will we studiously endeavour to imitate, and even to surpass. From our admiral,
Sir John Narbrough, knight, and also from other parties, we have heard with how much benignity
your eminence lately received him, and caused him and the other officers of our fleet to be
supplied with what was requisite for our ships of war, which we consider not less worthy of
the piety and valour of your Order than of our friendship; and we on our part, on opportunity
presenting itself, will be careful to abundantly reciprocate by every kind of good offices.

It remains to recommend your eminence and the whole of your holy Order militant to the safeguard
of the God of Hosts.

Given from our palace of Whitehall the 19th day of May, 1675.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XIV.

We know not how it came to pass that our admiral in the Mediterranean sea, Sir John Narbrough,
knight, should have given such cause of complaint as mentioned in your eminence's letters addressed
to us under date of the 5th of April, as to have refused to give the usual salute to the city
{444} of Malta, unless, perhaps, he had thought something had been omitted on the part of the
Maltese which he considered due to our dignity, and to the flag of our royal fleet. Be it,
however, as it may, your eminence may be persuaded that it is our fixed and established intention
to do and perform everything both ourselves and by our officers amply to show how much we esteem
the sacred person of your eminence and the Order of Malta.

In order, therefore, that it should already appear that we do not wish greater honour to be
paid to any prince than to your eminence and to your celebrate Order, we have directed our
above-mentioned admiral to accord all the same signs of friendship and good will towards your
eminence's ports and citadels as towards those of the most Christian and catholic kings; and
we no way doubt your Order will equally show that benevolence towards us which it is customary
to show to the above-mentioned kings, or to either of them.

It only remains to us to heartily recommend your eminence and all your military Order to the
safeguard of the Most High and Most Good God.

Given from our palace of Whitehall on the 21st day of June, 1675.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XV.

Not only by the letters of Sir John Narbrough, knight, whom we appointed in right and power
to be the admiral of our fleet in the Mediterranean sea, but also from other sources, we have
heard how benignantly your eminence, both by command and example, and all the sacred Order
of Malta, have treated him and the other commanders of our ships, so much so that they could
not have been better at home, and in our dockyards, than in your port of Malta. This is, indeed,
a sign of great friendship, and the more so that our kingdoms and seas are so far distant from
the usual navigation of the sacred Order of Malta, that few occasions could be expected to
offer themselves to us of reciprocating the friendship of your eminence. Some other mode, therefore,
must be sought by which we may testify our gratitude and affection towards your eminence and
the other members of your most sacred Order, to do which we shall willingly embrace and studiously
search after every opportunity which may offer.

  Your Eminence's good Cousin and Friend,
                  CHARLES REX.

No. XVI.

