In growing plants from cuttings, a piece is taken from the kind of plant that one wishes to
grow. The greatest care must be exercised in order to get a healthy cutting. If we take a cutting
from a poor plant, what can we expect but to grow a poor plant like the one from which our
cutting was taken? On the other hand, if a fine, strong, vigorous, fruitful plant be selected,
we shall expect to grow just such a fine, healthy, fruitful plant.

We expect the cutting to make exactly the same variety of plant as the parent stock. We must
therefore decide on the variety of berry, grape, fig, carnation, or rose that we wish to propagate,
and then look for the strongest and most promising plants of this variety within our reach.
The utmost care will not produce a fine plant if we start from poor stock.

What qualities are most desirable in a plant from which cuttings are to be taken? First, it
should be productive, hardy, and suited to your climate and your needs; second, it should be
healthy. Do not take cuttings from a diseased plant, since the cutting may carry the disease.

Cuttings may be taken from various parts of the plant, sometimes even from parts of the leaf,
as in the begonia (Fig. 46). More often, however, they are drawn from parts of the stem (Figs.
43-45). As to the age of the twig from which the cutting is to be taken, Professor Bailey says:
"For most plants the proper age or maturity of wood for the making of cuttings may be determined
by giving the twig a quick bend; if it snaps and hangs by the bark, it is in proper condition.
If it bends without breaking, it is too young and soft or too old. If it splinters, it is too
old and woody." Some plants, as the geranium (Fig. 42), succeed best if the cuttings from which
they are grown are taken from soft, young parts of the plant; others, for example, the grape
or rose, do better when the cutting is made from more mature wood.

Cuttings may vary in size and may include one or more buds. After a hardy, vigorous cutting
is made, insert it about one half or one third of its length in soil. A soil free from organic
matter is much the best, since in such soil the cuttings are much less liable to disease. A
fine, clean sand is commonly used by professional gardeners. When cuttings have rooted well--this
may require a month or more--they may be transplanted to larger pots.

Sometimes, instead of cutting off a piece and rooting it, portions of branches are made to
root before they are separated from the parent plant. This method is often followed, and is
known as layering. It is a simple process. Just bend the tip of a bough down and bury it in
the earth (see Fig. 47). The black raspberry forms layers naturally, but gardeners often aid
it by burying the over-hanging tips in the earth, so that more tips may easily take root. Strawberries
develop runners that root themselves in a similar fashion.

Grafts and buds are really cuttings which, instead of being buried in sand to produce roots
of their own, are set on the roots of other plants.

Grafting and budding are practiced when these methods are more convenient than cuttings or
when the gardener thinks there is danger of failure to get plants to take root as cuttings.
Neither grafting nor budding is, however, necessary for the raspberry or the grape, for these
propagate most readily from cuttings.

It is often the case that a budded or grafted plant is more fruitful than a plant on its own
roots. In cases of this kind, of course, grafts or buds are used.

The white, or Irish, potato is usually propagated from pieces of the potato itself. Each piece
used for planting bears one eye or more. The potato itself is really an underground stem and
the eyes are buds. This method of propagation is therefore really a peculiar kind of cutting.

Since the eye is a bud and our potato plant for next year is to develop from this bud, it is
of much importance, as we have seen, to know exactly what kind of plant our potato comes from.
If the potato is taken from a small plant that had but a few poor potatoes in the hill, we
may expect the bud to produce a similar plant and a correspondingly poor crop. We must see
to it, then, that our seed potatoes are drawn from vines that were good producers, because
new potato plants are like the plants from which they were grown. Of course when our potatoes
are in the bin we cannot tell from what kind of plants they came. We must therefore select
our seed potatoes in the field. Seed potatoes should always be selected from those hills that
produce most bountifully. Be assured that the increased yield will richly repay this care in
selecting. It matters not so much whether the seed potato be large or small; it must, however,
come from a hill bearing a large yield of fine potatoes.

Sweet-potato plants are produced from shoots, or growing buds, taken from the potato itself,
so that in their case too the piece that we use in propagating is a part of the original plant,
and will therefore be like it under similar conditions. Just as with the Irish potato, it is
important to know how good a yielder you are planting. You should watch during harvest and
select for propagation for the next year only such plants as yield best.

We should exercise fully as much care in selecting proper individuals from which to make a
cutting or a layer as we do in selecting a proper animal to breed from. Just as we select the
finest Jersey in the herd for breeding purposes, so we should choose first the variety of plant
we desire and then the finest individual plant of that variety.

If the variety of the potato that we desire to raise be Early Rose, it is not enough to select
any Early Rose plants, but the very best Early Rose plants, to furnish our seed.

It is not enough to select large, fine potatoes for cuttings. A large potato may not produce
a bountifully yielding plant. It will produce a plant like the one that produced it. It may
be that this one large potato was the only one produced by the original plant. If so, the plant
that grows from it will tend to be similarly unproductive. Thus you see the importance of selecting
in the field a plant that has exactly the qualities desired in the new plant.

One of the main reasons why gardeners raise plants from buds instead of from seeds is that
the seed of many plants will not produce plants like the parent. This failure to "come true,"
as it is called, is sometimes of value, for it occasionally leads to improvement. For example,
suppose that a thousand apple or other fruit or flower seeds from plants usually propagated
by cuttings be planted; it may be that one out of a thousand or a million will be a very valuable
plant. If a valuable plant be so produced, it should be most carefully guarded, multiplied
by cuttings or grafts, and introduced far and wide. It is in this way that new varieties of
fruits and flowers are produced from time to time.

Sometimes, too, a single bud on a tree will differ from the other buds and will produce a branch
different from the other branches. This is known as bud variation. When there is thus developed
a branch which happens to be of a superior kind, it should be propagated by cuttings just as
you would propagate it if it had originated from a seed. It is said that in giving this one
apple to the world he benefited mankind to the value of more than one million dollars. It will
be well to watch for any valuable bud or seed variant and never let a promising one be lost.
Plants grown in this way from seeds are usually spoken of as seedlings.

PLANTS TO BE PROPAGATED FROM BUDS

The following list gives the names and methods by which our common garden fruits and flowers
are propagated:

  Figs: use cuttings 8 to 10 inches long or layer.
  Grapes: use long cuttings, layer, or graft upon old vines.

  Apples: graft upon seedlings, usually crab seedlings one
  year old.

  Pears: bud upon pear seedlings.

  Cherries: bud upon cherry stock.

  Plums: bud upon peach stock.

  Peaches: bud upon peach or plum seedlings.

  Quinces: use cuttings or layer.

  Blackberries: propagate by suckers; cut from parent stem.

  Black raspberries: layer; remove old stem.

  Red raspberries: propagate by root-cuttings or suckers.

  Strawberries: propagate by runners.

  Currants and gooseberries: use long cuttings (these plants
  grow well only in cool climates; if attempted in warm
  climates, set in cold exposure).

  Carnations, geraniums, roses, begonias, etc.: propagate by
  cuttings rooted in sand and then transplanted to small pots.

     =EXERCISE=

     Propagate fruits (grape, fig, strawberry) of various kinds; also
     ornamental plants. How long does it take them to root? Geraniums
     rooted in the spring will bloom in the fall. Do you know any one
     who selects seed potatoes properly? Make a careful selection of
     seed at the next harvest-time.

SECTION XVIII. PLANT SEEDING

In propagating by seed, as in reproducing by buds, we select a portion of the parent plant--for
a seed is surely a part of the parent plant--and place it in the ground. There is, however,
one great difference between a seed and a bud. The bud is really a piece of the parent plant,
but a piece of one plant only, while a seed comes from the parts of two plants.

You will understand this fully if you read carefully Sections XIV-XVI. Since the seed is made
of two plants, the plant that springs from a seed is much more likely to differ from its mother
plant, that is, from the plant that produces the seed, than is a plant produced merely by buds.
In some cases plants "come true to seed" very accurately. In others they vary greatly. For
example, when we plant the seed of wheat, turnips, rye, onions, tomatoes, tobacco, or cotton,
we get plants that are in most respects like the parent plant. On the other hand the seed of
a Crawford peach or a Baldwin apple or a Bartlett pear will not produce plants like its parent,
but will rather resemble its wild forefathers. These seedlings, thus taking after their ancestors,
are always far inferior to our present cultivated forms. In such cases seeding is not practicable,
and we must resort to bud propagation of one sort or another.

While in a few plants like those just mentioned the seed does not "come true," most plants,
for example, cotton, tobacco, and others, do "come true." When we plant King cotton we may
expect to raise King cotton. There will be, however, as every one knows, some or even considerable
variation in the field. Some plants, even in exactly the same soil, will be better than the
average, and some will be poorer. Now we see this variation in the plants of our field, and
we believe that the plant will be in the main like its parent. What should we learn from this?
Surely that if we wish to produce sturdy, healthy, productive plants we must go into our fields
and pick out just such plants to secure seed from as we wish to produce another year. If we
wait until the seed is separated from the plant that produced it before we select our cotton
seed, we shall be planting seed from poor as well as from good plants, and must be content
with a crop of just such stock as we have planted. By selecting seed from the most productive
plants in the field and by repeating the selection each year, you can continually improve the
breed of the plant you are raising. In selecting seed for cotton you may follow the plan suggested
below for wheat.

The difference that you see between the wild and the cultivated chrysanthemums and between
the samples of asparagus shown in Figs. 49 and 50 was brought about by just such continuous
seed-selection from the kind of plant wanted.

By the careful selection of seed from the longest flax plants the increase in length shown
in the accompanying figure was gained. The selection of seed from those plants bearing the
most seed, regardless of the height of the plant, has produced flax like that to the right
in the illustration. These two kinds of flax are from the same parent stock, but slight differences
have been emphasized by continued seed-selection, until we now have really two varieties of
flax, one a heavy seed-bearer, the other producing a long fiber.

You can in a similar way improve your cotton or any other seed crop. Sugar beets have been
made by seed-selection to produce about double the percentage of sugar that they did a few
years ago. Preparing and tilling land costs too much in money and work to allow the land to
be planted with poor seed. When you are trying by seed-selection to increase the yield of cotton,
there are two principles that should be borne in mind: first, seed should be chosen only from
plants that bear many well-filled bolls of long-staple cotton; second, seed should be taken
from no plant that does not by its healthy condition show hardihood in resisting disease and
drouth.

The plan of choosing seeds from selected plants may be applied to wheat; but it would of course
be too time-consuming to select enough single wheat plants to furnish all of the seed wheat
for the next year. In this case adopt the following plan: In Fig. 52 let A represent the total
size of your wheat field and let B represent a plat large enough to furnish seed for the whole
field. At harvest-time go into section A and select the best plants you can find. Pick the
heads of these and thresh them by hand. The seed so obtained must be carefully saved for your
next sowing.

In the fall sow these selected seeds in area B. This area should produce the best wheat. At
the next harvest cull not from the whole field but from the finest plants of plat B, and again
save these as seed for plat B. Use the unculled seed from plat B to sow your crop. By following
this plan continuously you will every year have seed from several generations of choice plants,
and each year you will improve your seed.

It is of course advisable to move your seed plat B every year or two. For the new plat select
land that has recently been planted in legumes. Always give this plat unwearying care.

In the selection of plants from which to get seed, you must know what kind of plants are really
the best seed plants. First, you must not regard single heads or grains, but must select seed
from the most perfect plant, looking at the plant as a whole and not at any single part of
it. A first consideration is yield. Select the plants that yield best and are at the same time
resistant to drouth, resistant to rust and to winter, early to ripen, plump of grain, and nonshattering.
Its offspring also would probably be rust-resistant. If you should ever find such a plant,
be sure to save its seed and plant it in a plat by itself.

In England the average yield of wheat is thirty bushels an acre, in the United States it is
less than fifteen bushels! In some states the yield is even less than nine bushels an acre.
Let us select our seed with care, as the English people do, and then we can increase our yield.
By careful seed-selection a plant-breeder in Minnesota increased the yield of his wheat by
one fourth. Think what it would mean if twenty-five per cent were added to the world's supply
of wheat at comparatively no cost; that is, at the mere cost of careful seed-selection. This
would mean an addition to the world's income of about $500,000,000 each year. The United States
would get about one fifth of this profit.

